MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 12, 2018
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Nice round today.  Pretty good day.  How do you feel?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, I got off to a really fast start, and that was a lot of fun.  2-under through the first two holes, and I felt like I could go really low today, which is a great feeling and I haven't had that in a little while.  To finish 4-under, I'm happy, and just hopefully I can continue to improve a little bit over the weekend.
Q. You've overall had a pretty solid year though, haven't you?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, it's been fun.  Lot of top 10s, and a win earlier this year which has really helped a lot.  But I feel like my game's good right now, which is exciting.
Q. This round a little bit better than the last one you played here, right?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, absolutely.  I'm forgetting that one.
Q. I was going to ask you, did you think about that when you pulled into the parking lot, or how does that affect you when you go back?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, I've never really played that well here before.  So this year I just tried to keep things really simple.  I tried to just look over the golf course with fresh eyes and try to forget everything that's happened before and just try to play smart, try to give myself a lot of birdie opportunities, and fortunately today I was able to do that.
Q. Stacy called this a sneaky hard golf course.  What are your thoughts on the golf course out there?
BROOKE HENDERSON: When things are going well, it's like super easy.  And when you mis-hit like one little shot, you can run into a lot of trouble, so it is kind of sneaky hard.  You always have to stay focused.  You can't really take a break.  But with that being said, there are a lot of birdie opportunities, so you can go really low.
Q. I was going to ask you, the round today, on Friday, Thursday, it's really important to make sure you're in the tournament.  You certainly are.  Did you come out expecting to do that today?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, to get off to such a fast start was really awesome.  2-under through the first two holes.  And I had a good feeling today I could go low, which is great.  To finish at 4-under I'm definitely happy with it.  I'd like to be a little better, but I have three more days to do that.
Q. What are your biggest takeaways from day one about your performance?  Things you'd like to improve or things you liked about your game today?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I think I hit the ball in really good spots off the tee.  I feel like that is really key around this golf course.  You can run into trouble really fast if you run through fairways and things like that.  But I hit a lot of fairways and gave myself a lot of great angles into greens.
You know, depending on where the pin is, you can't really chase a lot of pins out here.  You've got to kind of play off the middle, and if I continue to do that, things will be good.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT