U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN
December 10, 2020
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Brooke, talk us through your round a little bit?
 BROOKE HENDERSON:   I hit it really well today.  Gave myself a lot good birdie looks.  Unfortunately didn't capitalize and made a few mistakes that cost me.
 Overall I felt like I hit it pretty well, so looking forward to tomorrow.  Hopefully make few more birdies and finish under par.
 Q. Was there one shot or hole that was a turning point today?
 BROOKE HENDERSON:   Not really.  It was like pretty steady the whole day.  A little bit up and down, couple bogeys, couple birdies, but pretty steady.  Just disappointing bogey on No. 8, my 17th hole today.
 But hopefully get it back tomorrow.
 Q. I'm working on a story on alena and Sarah, and I was wondering if you were one of the Zoom people who watched the ceremony from a far.  What was that like?
 BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, 2020 weddings are very strange this year, but it was definitely fun that my sister and I could be a part of it from afar.
 And we're great friends with Alena and Sarah, so happy for them.
 Q. Have you ever seen her happier or more radiant or...
 BROOKE HENDERSON:   I mean, Sarah has been a great addition to Alena's life and vice versa.  It's pretty cool to see them work together on the course and then being great friends and great partners off the course as well.
 It's definitely nice to see.
 Q. Playing on two courses and no fans.  Still feel like a major out there?
 BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, yeah, for sure.  Definitely still that buzz in the atmosphere.  You definitely miss the energy from the fans, but there is still that atmosphere of a major championship and the U.S. Open, which is pretty cool.
 I'm looking forward to playing Cypress tomorrow and getting on that course next three days hopefully.
 Q. What's the strategy for tomorrow?
 BROOKE HENDERSON:   I feel like a lot of the same things I did today.  I feel like two shots in ball striking is definitely the first two steps here and make sure you're hitting it in the right spots.
 So hopefully those are working for me tomorrow, and then just make a few more birdies.  Hopefully just make a few more birdies, one or two at the start, to get rid of this over par that I'm on the right now.
 Q. Back in your hockey days, I can't imagine golf, did you try to play with one broken rip rib, much less three like Cristie Kerr did today?
 BROOKE HENDERSON:   That's pretty crazy.  I didn't know that.  No, that's pretty crazy.  Hockey players are pretty tough, but I don't see how I would ever be able to do that.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT