THORNBERRY CREEK LPGA CLASSIC
July 4, 2018
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Welcome into the Thornberry Creek LPGA Classic media center.  Pleased to welcome in six-time LPGA winner, Brooke Henderson.  Brooke, thanks for joining us.  How are you doing today?   
BROOKE HENDERSON: Doing really well.  I've had an awesome pro-am this morning.  A lot of the fun and a lot of birdies, too.   
THE MODERATOR: Tell is about the pro-am party last night.  I think they might be interested to know what you were wearing.   
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, you know, I wore my Green Bay Packers shirt.  It was so cool to be at Lambeau Field and see all the amazing memorabilia inside.  Just to be a part of that atmosphere was really awesome.   
I think even seeing the Oneida Nations, their dance and everything, it was really incredible.  So one of my favorite pro-am parties for sure.   
THE MODERATOR: Brooke, you had a top 30 last year in the inaugural event.  What do you like about this tournament?  What's unique about it?   
BROOKE HENDERSON: You have to make a lot of birdies out here.  When things are going really well and you're hitting ball in good places and making a lot of putts, that's when good things happen around here.   
I think the winning score last year was in the 20s, which is really deep.  You definitely have to make a lot of birdies, and hopefully I'm able to do that over the next couple days.   
THE MODERATOR: Is that something you like, when you feel like you have to birdie every hole to give yourself a chance to win.   
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, it's kind of cool.  It's definitely a golf course that it does allow you to do that.  Even when you don't hit the best of shots you can still chip in for birdies.  You're never really too far away, which is cool.   
Watching Katherine win last year was pretty inspirational I think to a lot of girls out on the LPGA Tour.  Just watching her kind of fight through it and win again after such a long time.   
So I think stories are going to be made here.  Just hopefully, like I said, just make a lot putts, make a lot of birdies.   
THE MODERATOR: We are more than halfway through the LPGA season.  You've already got a win, a number of top 10 finishes.  I know you have very high standards thought.  How to you gauge your season so far?   
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, it's been a little bit up and down, but overall I'm really happy to get a win early in the season.  It does take a lot of pressure off, which is nice.  I've had quite a few Top 10s which, again, is kind of always a goal of mine.  Every week to try to fight for my position and try to move up the leaderboard on the weekend.  So Top 10 finishes I'm always happy about.   
There is definitely some great events left in this season.  CP Women's Open coming up in I guess just under two months, so that's definitely a highlight for me.  And two majors left, too, so lots of great golf left to be played.   
THE MODERATOR: We'll open it up for questions.   
 Q.  Green Bay is just a big family community.  I understand your sister caddies for you, your parents are here.  What's it like to have your family around you in a community that embraces that as well?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, it's really amazing.  You know, at an early age our parents taught us family values and to really respect each other.  It's amazing ti be able to go through this journey together.  My sister is my caddies, she is my travel partner, she's my best friend.  We spend almost every minute together every single day.   
And then my dad has always been my coach, but first off he's always my dad, which I think is really cool.  Mom doesn't play golf, but she is always out there cheering us on and always there whenever we need her.   
So it's really amazing to go through this dream come through and to be able to share with the ones I love.   
 Q.  You had a win on tour this year.  Only two people have won multiple times this year.  Talk about the parity on this tour right now and why it's so difficult to repeat in the same year.  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, absolutely.  The strength of the talent on the LPGA Tour just seems to keep getting better.  Every single week I feel like there are 30 players that could easily win it, which is pretty crazy when you think about it.   
You really have to have something special that week.  You have to have your A Game, and then you have to catch some breaks along the way.  I think the winners this year would all agree with that as well.   
You just have to continue to work really hard, and hopefully you catch those breaks.   
 Q.  Just kind of a fun question:  Do you have any extra wedges for this week?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, I got a new one.  (Laughter.)   
THE MODERATOR: Brooke you mentioned that we're three majors through; we still have two left.  What do you hope to accomplish the rest of this season?   
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, I had a great week last week being able to finish in the top 10.  That tournament has always been really good to me.  T6 is my worst finish over the last four years there, which is pretty crazy.  I definitely bring in a lot of confidence and momentum coming into this week, which is fun.   
And, you know, next two majors I've had a T10 at Evian before, and the British is still kind of a work in progress.  Still trying to figure out how to play the golf courses over there, but it's always a fun challenge and a little bit different week than over here in North America.   
I feel like there is lots to look forward to.  Hopefully if I can finish strong in those two majors then I can still have a great season.   
 Q.  Real quick, going back to the Pro-Am party last night you were wearing a Packers shirt.  Did you buy it there at Lambeau, or did you already own that?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: I'm a little bit of a Packers fan, but I did buy it specifically for that night.   
 Q.  Bandwagon.  
BROOKE HENDERSON: No, it's just so cool to be in that atmosphere and to be in the stadium with all the fans, all the fans that were there last night, too.  It was pretty awesome.   
THE MODERATOR: Any other questions for Brooke?  All right, Brooke, best of luck this week.  Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT