KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 30, 2018
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You put yourself in a good position again here at this championship, so how does that feel?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, it's pretty awesome.  This event has always been really special to me, and I've made a lot of great appearances, and my worst finish so far has been a T5, which is pretty crazy when you think about it.  Just so many great memories, and hopefully tomorrow I can just go out and put a good score together and just kind of see what happens.   
 Q.  What's been your key this week on this golf course, and has it changed at all from the beginning of the week?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: I feel like all parts of my game are pretty strong this week.  I feel like I can really depend on my tee shots and my long game.  I've been hitting it close and giving myself good looks for birdie.  Today I kind of struggled a little bit with my putter, which is disappointing, but I think just kind of get better in my head and just go out tomorrow and made a lot of good shots and see if I can make some birdies, and hopefully they roll in.   
 Q.  The new putter has been working well for you so far, though, so are you just going to put in a little bit more practice ahead of time?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, you know what, I usually come out a little bit early and just hit a few putts before the final round, so hopefully I'll do that, get the speed of the greens down in the early morning.  But yeah, just work on my pace putting a little bit, just try to get confident with it again.   
 Q.  Having been in this moment before, does it make it any easier to be playing in a final group?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Definitely, yeah.  You know, knowing that I've played so well here before and I've been able to hoist that trophy that will probably be looking at us on the first tee tomorrow, it's a great feeling.  So hopefully I can just put a solid round together, and that's all I can really ask for.   
 Q.  What is that feeling like, being in the final group?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: It's really awesome.  That's where you want to be every single week, and especially in a major championship.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT