KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 29, 2018
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What kind of momentum does that give you tomorrow, making that big birdie putt on 18 after you'd had a couple bogeys on the back nine?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, it was kind of up-and-down all day.  I made some birdies but I countered them with bogeys, so to finish off with a nice birdie putt on 18 gives me a lot of confidence going into tomorrow.  I would have liked to have shot a little bit better today, but 1-under when it was so hot and so windy, I'll take it.   
 Q.  I know you have that new putter in the bag.  How are you feeling with it?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: I love it.  Yeah, it's been working out really well this week, so I'm really happy about that.  I feel like I can see the line really well on this course here, and I've been hitting putts with solid speed.  That's been making me make a lot of birdies, which is always fun.   
 Q.  Those of us who follow the LPGA Tour regularly have had the pleasure of watching you and Lydia sort of grow up before our eyes.  Watching you on the course, the maturation process with you seems to be progressing even more.  How are you able to stay calmer and patient out there with all the pressure on you?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: I mean, it's a lot of fun.  To see the crowds there today and see my name at the top of the leaderboard, that's really fun and that's really exciting.  I was maybe a little bit of nerves today with some of those bogeys, but coming back with birdies, I think that's just kind of momentum and confidence, and I'm continuing to do that every single week, which is a lot of fun, and I'm just excited for the next couple years.   
I made a lot of birdies and a lot of bogeys.  Definitely the birdies are a good sign, the bogeys not so much.  But it was kind of playing tough early this morning, it was really windy, and it just took a couple holes to kind of adjust to that, and then down the stretch to make that birdie putt on 18, it really meant a lot because I felt like I wasn't really happy with my round, but that makes me feel a little bit better.   
 Q.  How long was your putt on 18?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: It was 12 feet, maybe just a little bit more.   
 Q.  Is there something about a PGA of America course or the way they set it up that sets up well for you?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: I think I just love the energy and the atmosphere here, and knowing that I've played well here in the past kind of just gives me that little bit of extra boost.  I think just because it plays a little bit longer -- generally I play a lot better on tougher courses, and I think they always kind of pick tough courses.  So far it's been working out really well for me.   
 Q.  There was some talk about how tough the last three holes could play, their "gauntlet" holes they call them.  How would you describe 16 through 18?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, I mean, 17, I don't really -- that hole is definitely a tough hole.  Par is good, and the last two days I made par there, which I'm always really happy about.  Today I had a good birdie chance on 16 and 18, but it's kind of like when you're hitting it really well, there's no problem, but if you make one small mistake, I feel like they could cause a lot of mistakes really quickly.   
 Q.  Winning a major as early as you did, how helpful has that been in your development?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, it gives me a lot of confidence, and I don't really get the question when are you going to win a major because I've already done it, and I feel like a lot of pressure is off that way.  Just in moments when I'm making putts and when I'm at major championships, I just feel a little bit more relaxed and calmer just because I know I've been in this position before and I've been able to succeed doing it.   
 Q.  The fact that you beat Lydia and Ariya, does that add to it, too?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Absolutely.  I just played amazing that week, and to see the names that were below me on the leaderboard is pretty cool.  It was just one of those weeks that was really special and everything just kind of seemed to go right, so hopefully this week will be that way, too.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT