KINGSMILL CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY GEICO
May 20, 2018
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Great day today.  Talk us through it.  What was working so well?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, you know, I just had a lot of great energy today.  I started off with three birdies right off the start.  Felt like I could really go low today, which is a great feeling.
I kind of leveled off for little while there, but then on the back nine to finish with I think four birdies pretty close together is awesome.
I came up a little bit short this week, but just to be in the hunt again and to feel that kind of adrenaline and to see my name at the top of leaderboard, it's always a lot of fun.
Q. Tell us about the birdie, birdie, birdie, and then par at the end.  Tell us about that three-birdie-in-a-row stretch?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, it was pretty awesome.  I just felt like -- I was in the groove, and I felt like I could make birdies and I could make a charge, so I'm really happy I was able to do that.
Like I said, just to be in the hunt again, to feel that adrenaline, to be so close to winning, is really exciting.
Q. Where do you feel like your game is?  Obviously one more week and U.S. Women's Open.
BROOKE HENDERSON: Feel like it's in a great spot.  Ball striking-wise I think I'm hitting it great; I started to roll in some putts this week, too, which is always a good feeling for me.
I'm going to take a week off and I'm going to go to Florida and practice and get ready for the U.S. Women's Open and hopefully put in a good show in there.
Q. Rolling in some putts finally.  Did you come here looking to find your stride a little?  Little bit of discomfort with your putting game at all?
BROOKE HENDERSON: A little bit.  You know, I been switching back and forth between a blade and mallet putter pretty much all season.  The weeks that I won or finished really well this year I been putting it great; weeks where I'm kind of struggling is when the putts just don't go in.
So this week, to finally feel like I could make a lot of putts.  You know, coming down the stretch I made a couple short ones.  The one on 17, it was pretty long, and that's not really a usual putt that I make.
So just to be in contention and be able to make putts like that is really important.
Q. It's not like you were treading water up until that.  You were in contention still at that point; then you make the three in a row.  What does that say about your confidence that you were able to drain those putts on the back nine late in a tournament?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, it's really exciting.  I love that feeling of being in contention and having that chance to win or having that chance to climb up spots.
So it was a lot of fun for me this afternoon.
Q. I didn't follow you this afternoon.
BROOKE HENDERSON: That's okay.
Q. So pardon these questions.  You said you were switching back and forth between blade and mallet coming in here.  What did you use today?  This week?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Blade.
Q. Used a Blade.
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah.
Q. Will you stick with it?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I think so.  Probably be the U.S. Open putter.
Q. How much were you switching back and forth?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I think I've gone through four putters this year, and I rotate a couple times between each of them.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT