HUGEL-JTBC LA OPEN
April 17, 2018
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Brooke, here you are in L.A. just a couple days removed from your sixth career win.  How are you feeling?  Are you just exhausted right now?  What's going on?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I'm super excited.  I think the adrenaline is still kicking in a little bit.  It was such a fun week last week.  Every thing went almost perfect, you know.  Being able to win a sixth time on the LPGA Tour is really dream come true.
I'm just excited to be back out here and competing against the best players in the world.
Q. What's your feeling heading into this week?  You're in Los Angeles; Hollywood sign, you can see it from the course.  What's it like being here?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, it's pretty incredible.  You can see the Hollywood sign when you're just playing golf.  We're staying right downtown.  It's an amazing atmosphere.  It's really, really cool.
You know, coming off a win, I'm just kind of flying high.  Hopefully I'll get off to a fast start and see what happens.
Q. What's it normally like for you the week after you won?  If you're playing in an event the next week, is there any sort of lag?  What's the next start like for you?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I think it's a little bit difficult once the adrenaline wears off.  You have to rest a little bit more and just get back the mental strength you have lost.
I think that'll be a big key in the next couple days just preparing for this event.  Just try to take it a little bit easy, try to rest up, and then start fast.
Q. So cool seeing you dedicate the win to the hockey team.  Were you able to celebrate at all after the fact?  Talk to anyone else about the entire situation?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, you know, it was extremely sad.  It kind of gave me a little bit extra motivation and little bit of extra mental strength to keep going and to keep fighting really hard over the weekend.
I wanted to do it for them, and I think it's pretty cool what I was able to pull it off.  Hopefully things continue to get a little bit better up there.  Hopefully -- yeah, things get better.
Q. Just seeing the golf course for the first time -- I'm assuming it's the first time you've seen it.
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yes.
Q. What are your impressions?  What do you need to do on this course?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I like it.  I think it'll be really important to hit the ball in good spots.  The greens are kind of a little bit oddly shaped; different than what we see every week.
I think being able to hit the ball where you want to and give yourself an uphill putt will be really important out here.  I think it's going to be a fun golf course.  We're right downtown pretty much; being able to see the Hollywood sign.
It's just a different atmosphere than we're used to every week.
Q. What are you planning for a new course and event?  Extra stuff you have with your sister or anything?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, you just have to pay a little bit more attention when you're playing practice rounds.  I'm actually playing more than I normally do, too, in the days leading up just to try to know where different slopes are, know where the good places are, the bad places, and holes you can really take advantage of and holes maybe you want to be playing a little bit more conservative.
That's kind of what we've been trying to do over the last two days.  Tomorrow will be our last time seeing the course before competition, so hopefully we'll have things ironed out by then.
Q. Typically, I don't know if you have specifics, but you said you're playing more in week than you normally do.  Is that nine holes?  Eighteen holes?  What's the difference?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I think the big thing is because the pro-am is 18 holes this week...
Q. Yeah, okay.
BROOKE HENDERSON: But we played nine yesterday, on Monday, nine today, Tuesday, and then 18 tomorrow.
Q. Uh-huh.
BROOKE HENDERSON: So 36 prior to a 72-hole event is kind of a lot of golf in one week, but I think it's worth it if you get to know the course a little bit better and maybe have a little bit of an advantage over the rest of the field out there way.
Q. Would you normally do just 18?  Like if it's a nine-hole scramble, would you play maybe nine more holes?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, you know, sometimes Monday is like a travel day so we'll just play nine holes Tuesday, nine holes Wednesday.  Sometimes we play Monday as well, but definitely more golf this week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT