LOTTE CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY HERSHEY
April 13, 2018
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Up and down round for you, but still made it through with the lead.  How are you feeling walking off the course?
BROOKE HENDERSON: You know, I hit it so well today that it kind of sucks to walk off the course 1-over when I know it could've been so much better.
But on the plus side I'm still leading, which is always great going into the final round.  Hopefully I can hit it just as well as I had the it today and hopefully make a few more putts.
Q. You had a little bit of trouble the a back nine there.  What was going on?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, you know, I've been kind of struggling with my putting all year.  First few rounds I had it going and I felt confident with it; then on the back nine I just kept missing I just felt like every single putt and kind of I got a little bit down.  That's always a terrible way to be, especially when you're still leading the tournament.
Unfortunately missed a couple and now I'm 1-over.  But at the same time, I'm still minus-9 for the whole tournament, and I'm feeling good going into tomorrow.
Q. When it comes to playing at Ko Olina, flirting with the top 10 last two years and this year leading, you feel pretty comfortable here?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I yeah, I love it here.  It's such a fun atmosphere; it's so beautiful.  I just always have played really well here in the past, so I'm excited to see what happens tomorrow.
Q. Pretty comfortable going into the final round being the one that's being chased?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah.  I mean, I would've liked it to be a lot more, but one shot is good.  I know there are still a ton of really talented players really close behind me, so I'll have to go out and make a lot of birdies and hopefully it's my day.
Q. We heard from a lot of people that the winds were kind of hard to judge today.  They kept up and down and changing back and forth.  Was that affecting your play at all?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah.  You really had to pay attention out there.  It was doing all of that, which is pretty crazy.
Start off the day it was northwest, which all week we've been playing east/northeast, so that was a big change and I had to adjust lines.
I had a lot closer in on a lot of par 4s.  I had like 20 yards in on one and 50 a couple times, so it was a big change.
Overall, I think we adjusted really well.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT