LOTTE CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY HERSHEY
April 14, 2018
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TV   
 Q.  Sixth victory on the LPGA Tour.  Brooke Henderson, was this tournament in some ways mentally tougher on you than the others?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, you know the wind conditions were incredible.  It was so windy every single day.  I think Brit and I did such as amazing job of adjusting and calculating yardages.   
My sixth win on tour.  I'm so happy.  This is another dream come true.  I really couldn't have done it without my sister, Brit.  Watching Pernilla Lindberg win her first major I guess to weeks ago now was a lot of motivation and really inspired me.   
I watched the playoff, and the grit and determination that she had, I was like, I can do that, too.  So I kind of owe a lot to her this week.   
 Q.  You mentioned that you had to dig deep yesterday.  Few doubts crept in.  Today a few glimpses of that.  How deep did you have to dig?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, you know, I just had to overcome that.  Fortunately I was able to do that.  There were a couple times I was a little bit shaky with it, but I remembered all the great putting I did the first two days.  Just tried to be calm, relaxed, and just see the line and hit it there.   
I made quite a few good putts coming in, so I'm happy.   
 Q.  I got a Twitter message from some folks in Ontario.  It was an ice storm there.  What is about this place you love?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: I love it here.  It's really amazing.  The energy and the fun atmosphere and just how beautiful it is.  I have played well here in the past, so I knew coming in I might have a good shot at it.   
So I'm really happy about it.   
 Q.  Tee to green might have been best we've seen you play.  You feel that way?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Absolutely, yeah.  I hit it great this week, even with all the wind and everything.  I feel like all year my ball striking has been really awesome.  It's just kind of my putting I've been working on.   
This week maybe wasn't my best, but I still won.   
 Q.  You sure did, and you showed a lot of grit in doing some.  Does this change any of your confidence or goals for the rest of the year?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, absolutely.  I would love to win a few more times out here.  I know it's extremely tough.  Every single week there are so many talented players.  I'm just happy that I'm one of them.   
Hopefully I can contend a little bit more.  The sky is the limit.   
 Q.  And last question.  Your parents aren't here this week.  How will you celebrate?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Might go swim in the ocean.  That sounds pretty fun.  I think just enjoy it.  Sixth win on tour, it's really amazing, and I really couldn't have done it without Brit.   
There has also been that really bad accident that happened a couple weeks ago, I guess last week, in Saskatchewan.  I just tried to stay strong for them, and I would like to dedicate this win to them as well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT