NBA DRAFT 2019
June 20, 2019
Nickeil Alexander-Walker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Just describe your style of play and what you'll bring to your new team.  
NICKEIL ALEXANDER-WALKER: I think my versatility, playmaking ability on both sides of the ball.  I think my length allows me to defend multiple positions.  My playmaking allows me to pass, shoot, score, make plays for others, make plays for myself.  Put points on the board.   
 Q.  I see you have the Nets hat on, but I understand the machinations and you probably won't be playing in Brooklyn.  Is that disappointing or were you looking to be in the big city?  
NICKEIL ALEXANDER-WALKER: I'm from Toronto.   
 Q.  That's pretty big.  
NICKEIL ALEXANDER-WALKER: Yeah, it's a big time right now in the city.  I'm glad it's turned around.  That means I chose the right profession.  But I'm just thankful.  Either team that wants me, I'm just going to come in and be the best player I can be. Try to give them as much as I can and work every day.  That's all I can control and try to do.   
 Q.  When you say you grew up in Toronto, like up through a certain age, and did you play hockey?  
NICKEIL ALEXANDER-WALKER: In gym class, I played hockey.  Anything outside, I did not.  I wasn't really into much but basketball.  From the moment I touched it, it had my heart.   
 Q.  But you could still skate if need be?  
NICKEIL ALEXANDER-WALKER: No.   
 Q.  You talk about being from Toronto.  Looking at Canadian basketball as a whole, with so many players from Canada being eligible in this draft.  Some have been taken already. The Raptors having won the NBA title.  Just this past year, how do you think that's helped grow the game of basketball as a whole in Canada between the championship for them, all you guys being eligible to be drafted, your cousin [Shai Gilgeous-Alexander] coming in from the draft last year?  
NICKEIL ALEXANDER-WALKER: It's given it a chance, opportunity.  I feel like it's showing more and more kids that were in my position that you can one day be here just like I am.  I know guys like Andrew Wiggins and Tyler Ennis gave me hope.  Now as RJ [Barrett] got selected.  I got selected.  Hopefully more Canadians who get selected can kind of give those kids and other generations hope.   
 Q.  When your name has been called and you're walking to the podium, what are some thoughts that flooded through your mind?  
NICKEIL ALEXANDER-WALKER: Don't fall.  Thank you, God.  And just try not to cry.   
 Q.  One guy whose name has not been mentioned tonight, Anthony Bennett, did not have a great career, but he was a first-round pick here.  Are you in touch with him?  
NICKEIL ALEXANDER-WALKER: I know he's playing right now.  He's working really hard.  I think he also paved the way in a sense.  I apologize for not mentioning his name.   
Him making history, doing something that all Canadians and Torontonians where I'm from dreamed of: Being that No. 1 pick.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT