NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CELTICS VS CAVALIERS
May 16, 2017
Al Horford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  I know you've had a film session to digest the matchup. What are the points of emphasis?  
AL HORFORD: I think that at this point, Washington really helped us prepare as far as the transition defense, and John Wall, LeBron James bringing the ball up and putting pressure on our defense.  I think we've got to make sure that we're real solid on the defensive end, especially transition.  Not much changes as far as our offense, which is just to keep moving the ball and keep everybody involved and have high assist numbers.   
 Q.  They haven't played in like 10 days.  You guys obviously played a wild series that ended last night.  Do you kind of carry this momentum from last night or do you expect problems with fatigue?  
AL HORFORD: Yeah, first of all, I feel like we're grateful to be in this position.  So for us, it's just get as much rest as we can today and all day tomorrow and get ready for the game tomorrow night and be ready to go.  We're lucky that we're not packing up and going for the summer, so it's a good opportunity.  We'll come out and we'll need all that energy from the crowd and keep feeding off of it.   
 Q.  Was one of the reasons you signed with the Celtics because you thought you might have a better chance to beat the Cavs in the playoffs?  
AL HORFORD: One of the reasons why I signed here was just to be in this position.  I feel like with the group that we have, we can compete with anyone.  I wouldn't necessarily say it was just to beat the Cavs, but it just felt right to be here.   
 Q.  Are you anxious to have another shot at the Cavs because obviously you haven't beat them in the playoffs?  
AL HORFORD: I'm excited.  I'm excited to be in this position at this point of the year.  I wouldn't say anxious, but I am excited.  Looking forward to tomorrow.   
 Q.  Nobody is picking you guys to win, and I'm not talking about fake haters.  Literally no one is picking you guys to win.  How does that feel?  
AL HORFORD: Everybody is always going to roll with the champ until somebody beats them, right?  That's just the way it is.   
 Q.  What's the mentality of this team?  
AL HORFORD: I think for now, it's us taking it day by day.  Today was a good, productive day.  We came up with a good game plan we feel like.  Looked at the film, getting our rest and just getting ready for tomorrow.  But I feel like we're in a good place mentally as a group.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT