NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 13, 2016
Al Horford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Talk about Karl-Anthony Towns and his success in the NBA?
AL HORFORD: Yeah, I'm so proud of Karl.  He feels like he's a sponge and he keeps growing and he keeps developing.  In his younger years I was kind of there to encourage him, and we had some great times when we were on the Dominican National Team.  It's just very gratifying to me to see him at this level and playing at such a high level.  He's really doing great.
Q. Is he going to be the Rookie of the Year?
AL HORFORD: I think so.
Q. What are you thoughts on some of the trade rumors that have popped up about you?
AL HORFORD: For me right now my focus is take things day by day.  I'm very grateful to be here in Toronto, to be part of this weekend, and I'm going to keep working.  I'm going to keep doing the things that I do.  I can't control the level of things that are happening and speculations that are going on.  My focus is on this, and then once I finish this, to get back to practicing and getting back to work.
Q. Is it a situation where you either talk to management or talk to your agent just to get a clear picture as to where things stand?
AL HORFORD: Yeah, I mean, for me I asked for guidance, but at the end of the day I understand the business of everything.  I know how everything works, and for me I just need to stay diligent, keep doing what I do, and whatever happens will happen.
Q. Have they given you a sense though, Al, that those conversations are taking place not just with you but the roster in general to see?
AL HORFORD: I'm honestly not sure.  They haven't given me a sense of anything.  I haven't spoken to anybody.  I spoke to coach (Mike Budenholzer) yesterday because he was one of the ones that let me know that I made the All-Star team and everything, and it was nice talking to him.  I'm just excited to be here.  I've got Paul (Millsap) alongside me.  I get to see him.  One of my old teammates (DeMarre Carroll) here and I love him to death.  So I'm glad to see him out here.
Q. (Question from DeMarre Carroll) -- I'm here with Al Horford my old teammate.  How does it feel playing without DeMarre Carroll?
AL HORFORD: That's a great question.  That's my man.  What you bring are the intangibles, you know what I'm saying?  A great player, hard-nosed, a guy that I know has my back and a guy that can shoot that three-ball real, real well.  So I know he's off to better things, but it was always great playing with him.
Q. When you look at big men now the game is obviously changing. Now they are playing away from the rim a little more.  What does Andre Drummond bring as a traditional big man?
AL HORFORD: Andre Drummond is so gifted.  He doesn't need to be away from the rim.  He can dominate in the paint area, finishes really well, just a great rebounder, very athletic.  The thing about him is that I feel like he's still developing as a player.  He's still 22, that's crazy.  He's just going to get better.  It's going to be scary.  He's going to get a lot better, and he's a great player.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT