NBA DRAFT
June 28, 2007
Al Horford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Al, talk about getting selected third and the journey you've been through at last three years at Florida.   
 AL HORFORD:  Oh, man, this is an unbelievable experience.  You know, winning two national championships at Florida and then moving up to the next level and being fortunate enough to get picked third overall; it's something very special.   
  
  Q.  When did you know?  Did you know before the Draft today that you were going to be third?   
 AL HORFORD:  I didn't want anyone to tell me anything.  I didn't know what was going to happen.  I felt like my agent, he had a good idea, but I just wanted to wait and see what happened.   
  
  Q.  What do you think about going to Atlanta, how young they are and how you fit into that mix there?   
 AL HORFORD:  Well, I'm excited about it, man.  You've got a lot of young, talented guys and I feel like I can come in and help the team around right away.   
 We've got to turn this thing around and get it going.   
  
  Q.  After tonight, you Joakim and Corey have been together for so long and now you'll be going your separate ways; what do you anticipate that being like?   
 AL HORFORD:  It's going to be different.  Obviously at this time in Florida, we're out on summer break and we're starting to come back to go to summer School.  Obviously it's a little different now.  We're going to separate teams.   
 It's a new beginning for us, and we're excited about it.  We had a great time at Florida, but I think it's time to move on to bigger things.   
  
  Q.  What do you think of the whole Billy Donovan scenario; did he speak with you after all of this happened?   
 AL HORFORD:  I got a chance to talk to coach.  I feel like everyone makes mistakes and fortunately, you know, I think he chose happiness and I think he felt like Florida was the place for him.  So it was a good decision for him and I'm happy for him.   
  
  Q.  I was wondering, what's the first thing you're going to buy or do after you sign your first contract?   
 AL HORFORD:  I probably -- I don't know.  I'll probably get a car, a nice car.  That will be the first big purchase that I make.   
  
  Q.  Any car in particular?   
 AL HORFORD:  Range Rover.  I'm not going to tell you the color because, you know, then people start feeling it and they want to start getting it in that color.   
  
  Q.  Red?   
 AL HORFORD:  No, no, it's different.  No red.   
  
  Q.  How does this compare and contrast to winning National Championships, is this a better feeling?  Is it a different feeling?   
 AL HORFORD:  It's a different feeling.  Winning a National Championship is something really special.  I don't think there's not a lot of things that compare to that, unless you win an NBA championship or another major title like that.  This is just the start of my career in the NBA.   
 Definitely winning a National Championship is something very special.   
  
  Q.  Tito was waving the Dominican flag; is this a good day for the Dominican Republic considering how high you were drafted?   
 AL HORFORD:  We're proud of where we're from and he just got a little carried away with the flag.  It's all good.   
 It's a good day.  I feel like basketball is going over there.  So we're going to see a lot more players coming out of there.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT