NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CAVALIERS vs CELTICS
May 15, 2018
Al Horford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Celtics - 107, Cavaliers - 94   
 Q.  Al, they cut the lead down to six points, four minutes to go.  You guys took that timeout and it seemed like you were really aggressive, you and Marcus [Morris], going right at the rim there.  What was kind of that mentality in terms of stopping their momentum and then taking over the game at that point?  
AL HORFORD: Yeah, it was that point of the game where we needed to make plays.  They went on a run, and we felt like we needed to go on a run of our own and make sure that we secured the win.   
 Q.  Even before that, LeBron's first quarter, obviously you sustained that, then I think they had you down by 11 four different times in the second quarter.  How were you able to not let that spiral out of control?  
AL HORFORD: You know, I think our team did a good job really keeping -- we kept our poise and just kept playing our basketball the way that we've been playing.  Tough on defense, moving the ball on offense, and that's just the way that we tried to play throughout the whole game.   
 Q.  How was your teammate Terry Rozier just able to change this game, especially third quarter with those 14 points?  
AL HORFORD: Amazing.  You know, Terry, just like a switch goes off, and he just goes out there and plays.  Terry is fearless.  He's always been like that.  It's just now he's getting the opportunity to show it, and it's a lot of fun to see him just grow continually game by game.   
 Q.  You just used the word fearless.  It seems at this point like your entire team is fearless, even after seeing LeBron go off the way he did.  Why are you guys so fearless even though you have so much youth?  
AL HORFORD: I think that we just have a group of guys that really believe in each other, and we are trying to play the right way, trying to play hard.  Really just buying into what Coach [Brad Stevens] is telling us, and just have a lot of guys that have a lot of fight in them in the locker room.  You've been following us, it's been like that all year.  It's not like this is something new.  Our group, in tough times, we've always found a way.   
 Q.  You took a tough fall there in the fourth quarter on that JR [Smith] flagrant.  How are you feeling, and what did it feel like to see Marcus [Smart] come to your back in that situation?  
AL HORFORD: Yeah, it was -- I felt like it was uncalled for, that type of play there, but that's the one thing about the group of our guys.  We have each other's backs, and it is what it is.  We moved on to the next play, and we just locked in even more after that.   
 Q.  Al, ironically Ty Lue came in here and told us that you guys are more physical, you're gooning it up against them, and my question for you is it looks like you guys are embracing the physical aspect of this game.  Why is that?  Of this series?  
AL HORFORD: I mean, we just play hard.  We go out there, we compete.  It's Celtics basketball.  We're really embracing Celtics basketball.  We're playing hard.  We've got each other's backs, and that's it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT