U.S. WOMEN'S MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
October 8, 2009
Laura Coble
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   RHONDA GLENN: Ladies and gentlemen, the runner-up in the US Women's Mid-Amateur for 2009, Laura Coble. You played great golf. Won a big match yesterday.   
 First of all, give me your overall impressions of how the match went and what you thought about today.   
 LAURA COBLE: Uh-huh. Well, I wasn't really nervous. I felt prepared and ready and relaxed and looking forward to the match. It's always a treat to play with Martha, whether it's against each other or (indiscernible.) So I knew it would be a pleasant round today, a nice walk.   
 You know, just a little bit off today with my swing, putting, and just couldn't get it all together. I hit a couple stray shots and couldn't get it all together, but she played great.   
 RHONDA GLENN: Is this the first time you've met in match play?   
 LAURA COBLE: No. We played in Southern a couple times before, and I think maybe in the (indiscernible.)  
 RHONDA GLENN: (No microphone.)   
 LAURA COBLE: Absolutely. Absolutely. I've never made it past the quarterfinals in this tournament, so, you know, just very pleased to win the way and play the way that I have the past few days. It's kind of gotten better and better every day.   
 Played really well against Meghan yesterday. You know, it's all gravy, basically. The first couple days I wasn't sure how I was gonna play. You know, my attitude was a little bit -- I was kind of tired coming into this tournament, and, you know, ready to rest a little bit.   
 But got my attitude a little better, and every day kind of got more into it. Thought, Okay, this might be (indiscernible.) I mean, I'm disappointed that I didn't win, but had a great week.  
 RHONDA GLENN: Did you learn anything this week?   
 LAURA COBLE: You always learn things when you play golf. It teaches you a lot about yourself and life. But, you know, you learn things about you never give up, and it reinforces a lot of things I've learned over the years in golf. Perseverance and you never know. Don't ever count anybody else out, and don't count yourself out. Patience. All good things.   
  
  Q. You guys have known each other for years. Is it easier to play with somebody you know or somebody you don't know, or is it just different?   
 LAURA COBLE: Well, you know, like this when it's a big championship, big rounds, big tournament, it definitely -- I felt like it helped me relax some and just be able to chat and talk about whatever.   
 Martha is always a treat to play with and we always chat and enjoy playing together, so it definitely helped me relax today.   
 RHONDA GLENN: Did you chat about things as you played the final?   
 LAURA COBLE: We did. (Indiscernible.) You know, just chit-chatted.   
 RHONDA GLENN: You birdied the 10th hole to bring the match back all square. What club did hit in?  
 LAURA COBLE: 9-iron.  
 RHONDA GLENN: How long was the putt?   
 LAURA COBLE: About eight feet.   
 RHONDA GLENN: Okay. And then I heard about the great shot you hit into 15 within inches of the hole. What club did you use there?   
 LAURA COBLE: Pitching wedge.  
 RHONDA GLENN: Okay. So you were two down with three to play. What were you trying to do on 16?   
 LAURA COBLE: Make the putt. I mean, I knew Martha was not gonna ease up on me, so I knew I had to try and step it up and get it close to the hole and try to hole a putt and see what happens.  
 RHONDA GLENN: How close was that putt?   
 LAURA COBLE: It was one of my closest, probably about 25 feet. She hit it definitely closer.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT