BIG 12 CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
March 5, 2016
Jim Littell
Kaylee Jensen
Brittney Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Oklahoma - 61, Oklahoma State - 43
THE MODERATOR: We're now joined by the Oklahoma State Cowgirls, Coach Jim Littell and his student-athletes, Brittney Martin and Kaylee Jensen.  Coach, your thoughts about this afternoon's game?
COACH LITTELL: First of all, give Oklahoma credit.  I thought they played with a great deal of energy and enthusiasm today.  Very disappointed in our group, that couldn't play in a game that had this much magnitude to it where it was so important for us.  You give yourself no chance to win when you turn the ball over 27 times.  You don't have to look any further on the stat sheet than that.
I would like to say we defended well, but we missed a lot of rotations, gave 'em a lot of easy baskets at the rim but they executed well and they took advantage of our misques.  We were outrebounded.  They guarded better than we did, and we weren't very good on the offensive end of the floor.
You put all that together with 27 turnovers and you have this type of outcome, but give Oklahoma credit.  They played hard, they guarded well, they got the ball inside, got us in foul trouble early and we were playing catch-up from then on.
Q. Brittney, how can a game like this refocus you guys now because now it's NCAA Tournament time?
BRITTNEY MARTIN: Definitely another learning experience for us.  We shouldn't have to learn this late in the season but, yeah, we can't win with 27 turnovers.  We cannot win games, let's say that, with 27 turnovers, that's too many and we just have lost our fire.  We need to find that and I think we will be okay.
Q. Kaylee, you started the first quarter with I think six blocks and maybe the offense wasn't coming as naturally, but did you feel like you had a little bit of rhythm defensively to protect the rim early on in this game?
KAYLEE JENSEN: In the beginning, yeah, I figured if I couldn't get any offensive line going I should probably try to pick it up on the defensive line and that's what I tried to do and my offense never followed suit.
Q. Brittney, is the days off that you have now maybe a blessing in disguise for this team?
BRITTNEY MARTIN: By the way we played today it looks like it.  We were tired, we look like we're tired, I think, so, yeah, I think so.
It gives us some time to work on ourselves and work on our game a little bit, on our own, so, yeah, I think so.
Q. Brittney, we saw postgame that you had a little bit of an embrace with Coach Coale and a minute ago she talked a little bit about that what did she say?
BRITTNEY MARTIN: She said I was going to be a great pro player and she is glad she doesn't have to play me anymore, but good luck and congratulations on your future.
Q. You finished with 17 points, 6 rebounds and statistically that's not quite up to your standard this season.  Have you gotten to that point where you have a game like this and despite it not being a bad statistic for yourself, as a game that you can improve on?
BRITTNEY MARTIN: Oh, yeah, I shouldn't have 6 rebounds.  I should have a lot more than that and I think that comes with effort, so, yeah, I think I can definitely do better.
THE MODERATOR: Okay, ladies, congratulations on a great season and best of luck in the NCAAs.  You can go back to the locker room.
Q. Coach, talk a little bit about the comment to the girls on does this team need rest and is this layoff a blessing in disguise?
COACH LITTELL: You know, we have cut practice time down trying to save legs and trying to save energy, and that may have been counterproductive.  Sometimes you think you want to shorten practice.  That's what I've always done in the past, but since we've done that we haven't played real well.  So maybe we need to go back to the 2, 2 and a half hours and build a little toughness.
Q. Does this week come at a perfect time?  Because now you don't have to focus on a specific time you can just focus on yourselves in practice.
COACH LITTELL: We do need to focus on ourselves, getting better, especially on the offensive end.  You know, we made some passes that I don't know where they came from and where they were going, so they weren't in the scheme of what we were doing offensively so we were -- and, again, give OU credit.  They had a nice scheme, a nice game plan, but we threw the ball out-of-bounds too many times and there was too many unforced errors and we didn't shoot the ball very well, that's not a good formula for success.
THE MODERATOR: Further questions for Coach?  Okay, Coach, best of luck in the NCAAs.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT