ICC WOMEN'S WORLD T20
November 16, 2018
Hayley Matthews
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  That atmosphere tonight felt like nothing we've seen in the tournament so far.  Give us an understanding of what it feels like with a crowd so behind you like that?  
HAYLEY MATTHEWS: Yeah, I think it's is good to be able to come out to the games and really see the support we've been getting.  From game one when we played in Guyana we had an amazing crowd, and since we've been here in St. Lucia it's been just as good or even better.   
I think especially when we set the low totals in the last game the crowd really helped to push us on and I guess hype us up in the field a bit.  We saw the same thing happened today.   
 Q.  Certainly feels that way.  You got around and seen all the crowd after playing and were signing autographs.  Seems to be a lot of love between the players and the crowd and vice versa.  
HAYLEY MATTHEWS: Yeah, I think we're very, very appreciative of all the support we've been getting.  At the end of the day, this is West Indies cricket, and we definitely play for the people of the Caribbean.  We're giving back the love and showing appreciation for all the support we do get.   
 Q.  In terms of the big three at the top of the order today, you all fired after not so far in the tournament.  There must be a bit of relief coming into the elimination stage.  
HAYLEY MATTHEWS: Yeah, I think in the first two games we weren't able to fire at the top the order.  To be able to go out there today and be able to get going and get a start what me and Deandra had was really good.  I kind of keep saying if we keep getting starts like that it will definitely make it easier on our lower order and, you know, help to ease the pressure on the team a bit.   
 Q.  And you can draw down on this big game experience from that famous moment in 2016 at Eden Gardens.  Do you think about that a lot in terms of what you may be able to pull off again next time?  
HAYLEY MATTHEWS: Yeah, for sure.  I think it's definitely something I can look back to.  The first two games, like you said, I didn't get any runs in.  For me it's kind of a reminder of what I can do and keep believing in myself.   
So I'm really happy that I could get some runs today, and hopefully I can replicate some more performances like that.   
 Q.  Was it extra special to have your father in the crowd?  
HAYLEY MATTHEWS: Yeah, for sure.  I mean, he's the person who taught me how to play cricket in the first place.  To be able to go out there and perform with him watching, I know he's very, very proud of me, so just to be able to showcase all that's he's taught me is a very special feeling for me.   
 Q.  And runs and wickets, but that catch, running back and claiming it in the air, that must have been a special moment as well.  
HAYLEY MATTHEWS: Yeah.  Like I keep saying, the support has been really good for us, and I think the crowds help for all those special moments.  Just knowing that you can go out there and do it and to be able to help the crowd push you on and really get special moments like that going.   
 Q.  How good is the pitch?  You got a high score, so that would suggest it's a bit easy for batting and the outfield.  It's dried out, but how good would you rate this pitch?  
HAYLEY MATTHEWS: I think coming into the game looking at the other games, and the previous games that we played as well, we definitely didn't think it was a 180 pitch.  When we went out there and were able to actually bat on it, it started coming off really well and didn't have too, too much turn in it.   
I think overall it was a really, really good batting pitch for us, and we were happy to play on it.   
 Q.  You played South Africa earlier this year in a bilateral series.  How good was that preparation to bring you to this point?  
HAYLEY MATTHEWS: I think very good, you know, just getting to practice even 50-over cricket.  At the end of the day, it's about getting time in the middle and getting a lot of the match practice.   
I think it was very key for us.  Even though we didn't win the series and drew it 2-all, I think just getting a consensus of the type of batting order we want to have and the opposition that we're going to be facing up as well.   
 Q.  And you're into the semis, but Sunday will determine who wins the group and then who you face in the semifinal.  How big and important is Sunday's match?  
HAYLEY MATTHEWS: I think for us we have to go out there and still play the same level of cricket we've been playing or even better.  We would like to qualify first in the group and really be able to send a message out to the opposition from the other group that we're coming hard and we're really coming to defend our title.   
So to go out there and be able to win that last game of the group stage and finish up on top the group would be really good for us.   
 Q.  A little bit more on the fielding.  Connell, she's big and tall.  She did put in a tremendous bit of bit of fielding in at the end.  Tell us a little about overall feeling, who is leading the fielding in training and how is it benefiting the squad overall?  
HAYLEY MATTHEWS: I think it's a total group effort.  We've been working really, really hard over the last couple months and I think it's really showing now.  If you look at our fielding in the last couple games, it's been really, really magnificent.  It's helping us to win games.  We saw in the last game Deandra with that run helped us to win that game, and couple really good catches as well.   
And then, you know, to come this game again and field really well.  And once we keep seeing those run outs every game it's a really good sign.   
 Q.  Gus Logie was rated as one of the best fielders of all-time.  Is he the man who's pushing you hard?  
HAYLEY MATTHEWS: Yeah, he's definitely a good fielding coach.  He really pushes us at training or in camp getting your body behind the ball and making sure that we take the crucial catches and crucial run outs in games.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT