AL DIVISION SERIES: WHITE SOX v RAYS
October 2, 2008
Ozzie Guillen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: Questions for Ozzie Guillen. 

 Q. In your thinking on your lineups, playing Wise in left and not playing Swisher, how much of that is a defensive consideration to have Wise out there instead of Swisher? 
 OZZIE GUILLEN: Well, Wise, because of a couple reasons. I think he's been playing for the last couple of weeks, and I think he's been playing well. He brings to the ballclub something we don't have: His better defense and more speed. 
 I think to me he gives us a pretty good at-bats and that's the same like now we've been playing for a week already. 

 Q. Knowing how Javy is, will you keep a close eye on him in those fifth and sixth innings where you might go to the pen a batter earlier than you normally do? Is that in the mix? 
 OZZIE GUILLEN: I don't know yet. My gut feelings and see how he's throwing in all different situations. The game will dictate us what we're going to do with Javy. There's no question I talk to him about it, about make sure you stay aggressive all game. Make sure --
 It's easy to say throw the ball over the plate. It's easy to say to do. But Javy will want to be aggressive from the beginning, then the game will dictate what we have to do during the game. 

 Q. Can you describe how Crawford's presence changes the Rays in your mind? 
 OZZIE GUILLEN: Well, he makes the lineup better. He makes the lineup better. This kid is one of the most exciting players in the game. We will see how he swings the bat right now due to the injury. 
 He's like having pointing in the lineup. I think this kid can bring a lot of energy to the ballclub. One thing we have in mind, hopefully we'll keep him off the bases. 
 He changed my mind, too. When I saw him play, that's why Danks is going to start the third game, because the line is pretty strong on the left side of the plate. 

 Q. How much do you rely on Mark's experience going into this? I believe he's by far the most experienced starter you have as far as postseason. How much can that play into what could be a big game for you guys one way or the other, depending on how it turns out?
 OZZIE GUILLEN: He's only pitching because I love his kid. You know, Mark is to me, is our ace. You know, I mean I think he pitched a big game for us. I think when you ask the guy, a lot of people talk about Santana and C. C. Sabathia come out three days' rest for like five different times. He did it, too, and nobody gave him any credit. 
 I think the job he did, he was outstanding. I think the reason we are in the playoffs is because of the way he performed for a month. I mean, he's got experience about playoffs, and we would like to start him today, but we were set for the rotation with Javy first. 

 Q. What it took for you to get here, could that maybe be the best thing for you guys the fact that you had to win these three playoff games just to get here? 
 OZZIE GUILLEN: Oh, you know, everybody knows it was hard, the three games played off. You talk about a one-month playoff. We've been playing all year, for a month, do-or-die situation. 
 I don't want the players to feel comfortable and don't shoot for the thing we want to win. Not just because you get in, you have a good season. Just make the season from a good season to a great season. 
 I have a meeting with them. If we don't make it to the World Series, to me, to me personally, we just played a couple more games. That's all we did was play a couple more games. My goal is we have 11 games to win, and I think that happened. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT