AL DIVISION SERIES: WHITE SOX v RAYS
October 2, 2008
Ozzie Guillen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: Questions for Ozzie Guillen.   
  
  Q. Could you tell us a little bit about your pregame plan regarding Evan Longoria? Also could you tell us a little about what happened in the 7th inning with Orlando Cabrera and Grant Balfour?  
 OZZIE GUILLEN: Well, Longoria, that's a guy you want to stay away from. I mean the first pitch is above the middle of the plate, you take advantage of the second home run. He's hit the hanging breaking ball. We tried to stay away from them.   
 That's the reason I went down and talked to Richard the last at-bat we walked him. Said I don't care. The next guy hit two home runs, make sure you stay away from him. But this guy's a tough kid. This kid's going to be an outstanding ballplayer. You see him on the field, and you know he's going to be a great player. It's something you don't want to get beat by him, the first two at-bats you just take advantage of that.  
 What happened with Cabrera? I don't know. I think both of them got a little bit excited. I don't blame him. To me, he misunderstood Cabrera's action. I mean, when you have 40 thousands people around you first playoff games, you expect a lot of things. But I think he just overreacted a little bit.   
  
  Q. With Javy and I mean, he wasn't awful, but at the same time again, he didn't deliver like you guys were hoping to. What do you do at this point with him?   
 OZZIE GUILLEN: I don't know. We showed him we've got a lot of confidence in him starting the first game. I don't think he threw that ball that bad like it looked. He had a couple hits here and there, but on obviously, he got short. I think he pitched only five innings. Obviously the expectation was higher from our view. You know, he just can't get it done.   
  
  Q. In the same sense, can you talk about what Richard did for you guys to keep you guys close and give you a chance to come back today?   
 OZZIE GUILLEN: Outstanding job. You know, I mean I never thought this kid was going to pitch the way he did. You know, first year in the big league playoff situation and handled it the way he did, I'm proud and happy how this kid is pitching for us all year long. He did an outstanding job. He saved our bullpen for the next couple of days.   
 He could throw another good game.   
  
  Q. Would Richard's performance change your mind about Game 5 if it goes that far?   
 OZZIE GUILLEN: I don't know. I don't know. We've got to sit down and talk about it. I don't want to lose faith in Javy, but it's something that it's on our mind. If we get to a Game 5, I might start with Buehrle, I don't know yet. But you know, it's going to be on my mind.   
  
  Q. Do you think the game the other night against Minnesota had any residual effect coming in today not having much time to prepare?   
 OZZIE GUILLEN: No. I think that's an excuse. We had a day off. You know, the guys were ready and prepared for the game today. I think Shields pitched a hell of a ballgame. You know, we didn't do much at all. That's a typical White Sox baseball, two minimum base, home run, and then slow down for a little while, and then another home run.   
 But, I think the bullpen did a tremendous job out there. But I think Shields was outstanding. He made one bad pitch, and that was a home run. You know, when the guys -- I got to give him the credit. Give him the credit, he threw really good.   
  
  Q. Considering what Clayton did tonight and the fact that their numbers against lefties aren't very good, can you feel good about the next two games because you have two good lefties going?   
 OZZIE GUILLEN: I'll take my chances. I'll take my chances. That's the reason we put Danks facing them. Tomorrow the guy is carrying us all year long with Buehrle. Obviously they have one of the best pitchers in the ballclub, too. I'm not worried about my pitching tomorrow. I'm worried about my offense.   
  
  Q. If you can gain a split here on these first two games, would you consider that a success, the first two games?   
 OZZIE GUILLEN: Well, we have to win tomorrow. You know what I mean? It's not a do-or-die thing, but I'd rather go home with one win, than go against the wall. But, you know, this ballclub was against the wall a lot of times and we pulled it out.   
 Tomorrow is another game, it's a must-win game.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT