MLB ALL-STAR GAME
July 11, 2006
Ozzie Guillen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q.  Were you starting to sweat there a little bit in the ninth inning? 
 OZZIE GUILLEN:  Well, when we got to the 9th and I see my first two guys, they went out real quick, I was turning to my coach and I says, "Why me?  Why do I have to lose this game." 
 But when those two guys get on base, we have one of the best pure hitters in baseball at the plate.  And over the summer, Derek Jeter was telling one of my kids today, "Michael will win the game if he comes to hit."  And he did.  I brought Michael, like two months ago or one month ago when we played Texas, I told him, "You're going to be on my All-Star Team no matter what.  I don't care what kind of average you have."  I love the way this kid plays the game. 
 I think he's one of the most underrated players in the American League.  This kid can do a lot of things and nobody talks about it.  He's a great shortstop and pretty good hitter, and we've got the right people in the right place. 

 Q.  Once you had the lead, were you comfortable with Mariano going in the ninth inning? 
 OZZIE GUILLEN:  I never put dreams, because my dreams is watching my kids grow up, but that's one of my dreams.  I said, wow, it would be nice if we're up by one in the ninth, we can call Mariano.  I know how Mr. Joe Torre feels when he's on the mound.  He's done that in tough situations for so many years.  We know we have confidence with that when Mariano was on the mound. 

 Q.  What did the Clemente tribute mean for you? 
 OZZIE GUILLEN:  I think this guy, we see Roberto, he was a Latino that opened doors for the rest of the people.  I think a lot of people remember Roberto because of the way he died.  A lot of people remember Roberto the way he played the game.  I think what Roberto gave to the community, day-in and day-out, the way he show up to the plate, the way he show up to the ballpark, that's the way people should be taking the steps in life, not just baseball.  I think his life was unbelievable, outstanding.  I think it means a lot to all Latin players.  I don't say only Latin players, I think baseball in general.  When this man walked on the field, it seemed that that's a real ballplayer.  In Latin America, he's one of my heroes and I always admired had him because we're here today, and I have a room in my house and one of my kids is named Roberto and that's why this means a lot to me. 

 Q.  You knew Penny in your years in Florida but how impressed were you by what he did that first inning? 
 OZZIE GUILLEN:  I never thought Penny could throw 98,99 in this stage.  I know penny was pumped up, he's one of the best -- I'm coaching him for a couple years and I never seen him throw the ball that well.  God bless him and hopefully he can help the Dodgers to do it and hopefully stay healthy.  But it was amazing the way he was throwing the ball. 

 Q.  The way that ninth inning unraveled, did it remind you of watching a White Sox game, and was it any more gratifying to know that Pauly got it started for you? 
 OZZIE GUILLEN:  I was telling one of my beat writers, about that's the way we almost play every day.  I think when Pauly gets on base, we think we always have a chance. 
 When you manage a team like the All-Star Team when anybody can do any damage at any time, I think we never give up.  You can see the guys at the top of the dugout, you see Jeter and Pudge try to pushing for the guys, rooting for the guys, and it was fun to be around those people. 

 Q.  Jose Lopez really doesn't play second base, what was his reaction when you went up to him in the ninth inning and told him to play third base? 
 OZZIE GUILLEN:  I said you play infield, you can play anywhere, somebody had to pinch run for Konerko.  Konerko is the slowest guy on the team. 
 The biggest surprise was when I told Glaus, you've got to go to first base.  He looked at me with a funny face, he says, you're big enough to be there.  If you play shortstop, you can play anywhere. 
 I just put the guy there, and that's the last guy I have and it worked out pretty well. 

 Q.  When you were in Texas a couple of weeks ago, you were talking about Michael Young as a player.  How did what you saw tonight compare to what you thought? 
 OZZIE GUILLEN:  Well, Michael Young was my first pick in the All-Star Game.  And you can ask his infield coach, Schmidty third base coach for them, I ask about Michael, Michael can play inside shortstop and another position, and he said, yes.  I told Michael Young he's on my team, I don't care if he hits .220.  You can ask Mr. Schmidt about it.  Like I say, he's underrated.  I talk about it, nobody talks about this kid and this kid is one of the best players in baseball right now. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT