AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: ANGELS v WHITE SOX
October 11, 2005
Ozzie Guillen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Is this tonight with the Angels coming in, having traveled as much as they did and the pitching staff kind of in flux, a very big advantage for your team?

OZZIE GUILLEN:  I don't know about the pitching staff.  Obviously but when you've got (Bartolo) Colon out of your roster, you have the best pitcher that's not going to perform, that's something you feel good about.  But the traveling, when you play California on the West Coast and every time you go to the east or come to Chicago, it's always a long trip.  I mean, I think they get used to the travel because they do it all year long.  I think the travel is just something that you deal with.  About the pitching, yes.  I'll bet you they arrived at 5:30 in the morning and go out and play a game and they can win because they get used to that.  They did it before.  We cannot just sit there and say, "They're tired, we can take advantage."  As soon as you put that uniform on, you're not tired, you're not hurting, you don't have any pain, you just go and play the game.

Q.  Why do you think the Angels were able to win the regular season series from you guys this year?

OZZIE GUILLEN:  Well, they got off at the wrong time.  We did not play good on the West Coast in the past, and when they got here their pitching staff was throwing the ball the way they always throw the ball, and they have a great team.  To be the best, you've got to win against the best.  To me, there's no doubt about it, this is a team that has got better balance than any other team in the American League; they have the power, they have good pitching, they have a great bullpen, a great manager who knows how to handle his players, a lot of speed.  They've got one of the best players I've ever seen in my life in Vlad (Guerrero).  They have a lot of different tools and they can win games. 

Q.  Mike said he thought the game should have been pushed back a day.  What do you say to that?

OZZIE GUILLEN:  Well, I'm not the Commissioner, but a lot of people have to say, well, they don't have the rest, but we have so many days' rest, also.  I can't make the call.  It's out of my control.  When you're the manager and I put myself in that situation, I would say the same thing he did.  I would try to get another day off.  It's stuff you can't control.  I think it's right to say that.  I think he had a good reason to say that, but it's not in my hands. 

Q.  Have you thanked the Angels for putting Bobby Jenks on waivers?

OZZIE GUILLEN:  Good thing they did.  I think this kid -- you know, he wasn't the Bobby Jenks we have right now.  I talked to a couple of guys that asked me about it, and I think when you put somebody on waivers, you're not protecting somebody.  You don't sign somebody back, you have a reason.  I don't know the reason why they did it. 

Q.  What do you remember about your regular season meetings with the Angels, and what was the most trouble for you then?

OZZIE GUILLEN:  Everything.  I think mike Scioscia has his hands full.  I think Colon pitched great against us, (Kelvim) Escobar pitched real good against us.  We got a couple walk-off home runs and we went all the way to the last inning, I think, and win it in a couple games here.  Contreras threw a tremendous game and the third baseman hit a home run to win it.  We played pretty good against them.  It was a pretty good matchup.

Q.  On the Tuesday-Wednesday thing, a lot of people think a baseball team can have too many days off.  Do you think you would have been at a disadvantage or have been too long a layoff if they had pushed this back until Wednesday?

OZZIE GUILLEN:  Yeah, because I worry about it, worry about my pitching staff.  I worry about (Jon) Garland not pitching for 10, 12 days and giving Contreras seven or eight days' rest.  I was worried about it.  I think we had a pretty good workout.  I think the guys are ready to play, but I hope the many days off we had is not -- we need those days off.  Hopefully we play the same way we were playing before we got those days off.

Q.  You're playing a team that sort of remade its image by winning the World Series in 2002.  What would winning a World Series do for the popularity of your team here in town?

OZZIE GUILLEN:  Watch out, Mayor Daley, I might be the next mayor (laughter).  Believe me, I've never seen so much enthusiasm and so many people around Chicago so excited about it, I don't care if you're a Cubs fan, a Bulls fan, a Bears fan.  I think of lot of people now are Chicago fans.  The name we wear on the chest says "Chicago," not South Side.  Hopefully we're not going to let those guys down.  To win the World Series here is going to be my ultimate goal.  I want people to say "outstanding game" or "keep managing".

Q.  How much of a relief is it to not have to deal with Bartolo Colon in the series?

OZZIE GUILLEN:  Great.  I don't think nobody want to deal with it.  I think Bartolo last time he pitched here is supposed to scratched and not pitch that Sunday because he got a bad back.  Then they say he was fine, and we only got two hits.  That's how bad we're going to miss him.

Q.  You talked a lot about how Boston and New York got the respect they earned and they're both out.  Is the spotlight now on the White Sox?

OZZIE GUILLEN:  Not yet.  A lot of people tried to -- we're playing better baseball.  A lot of people put their eyes on the White Sox because of the way we played against Boston.  We beat Boston, now we're good.  Before we're not.  It's funny like that, but it's true.  Now Boston, New York, hopefully the rating is still there, hopefully we'll put on a show for the baseball fans and a couple people told me this game is going to be televised to the troops and in Venezuela.  Nice for those people to see there's other teams in the United States, not New York and Boston, and hopefully we put a good show on and hopefully people enjoy the series.

Q.  Your experience being on the Marlins' staff, how did that prepare you for what you're going through with your team this year, what you're going through?

OZZIE GUILLEN:  I'm the only one that controls the team, I think.  Jack McKeon just sent me a letter to have fun and enjoy.  When people think you have experience in these playoffs, but I think I've been there before, I told my players just to enjoy this thing, it's not going to be easy.  Every game is going to be tougher and tougher being in this playoff.  I think being part of that taught me a lot, being part of the Atlanta Braves organization when I went to a couple of World Series and playoffs helped me mentally and physically.  I think mentally you have to prepare yourself for the best.

Q.  What would Chico Carrasquel about this experience and what does it mean to you?

OZZIE GUILLEN:  You're going to make me cry here.  Chico was one of my best friends in Chicago.  I think I know where he is right now, he would feel proud.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT