AL DIVISION SERIES: RED SOX v WHITE SOX
October 4, 2005
Ozzie Guillen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  First question for Ozzie.  Ozzie, were you at all surprised today by the offensive outburst from your team?
 
OZZIE GUILLEN:  Well, you know, in the season, we hit 200 home runs.  That's a lot for the team playing small ball, or to get there right away, I think.  It does not surprise me because Clement is a pretty good sinker baller and when Podsednik hit a home run, it was like wow.  The offense, I think, early in the day, I say we score first, you know, we have a chance, but compete and play against that team.  If you're up by 6, your heart is still pumping.  Every time you see somebody on base and you see those guys who can pitch anybody on that team, you have to pitch good.  That's the only way you're going to beat those guys.  Last year they was behind a lot of times and they kept on coming back.  You got to keep plugging, and hopefully for the best. 
 
Q.  Does it feel like nice game, but now go do it again?
 
OZZIE GUILLEN:  We're the type of team I would say what we did last night doesn't mean anything tomorrow.  That's the type of way we play.  Also, it's nice to carry over, it's nice to come back and carry with the same enthusiasm and the same way.  It's different pitchers, and I always say just get it tomorrow.  Enjoy the day, but let's show up tomorrow and play the game. 
 
Q.  What did you say to Contreras when he went out in the 4th?
 
OZZIE GUILLEN:  Don't worry about the people on base.  Try to eliminate the most hitters you could.  Don't lose your concentration and keep throwing the way you throw the ball. 
 
Q.  Ozzie, you struggled to score runs all day.  You have had some big scoring games against the Red Sox.  Is there any way to explain it?
 
OZZIE GUILLEN:  I guess when you play the world champs you are pumped up a little bit.  They're the best.  We swing the bat good over there, and they did it, too.  When we was there and playing the series in Boston, our pitching staff was really strong.  Right now our pitching staff is set, and hopefully they can stay that way.  We play the central division, and the central division people, I think, is the most underrated division in baseball, especially when you're pitching.  Look at the pitching staff, even in Minnesota and Detroit, we compete with those guys every day, and that was pretty good pitching staff.  I don't want to take anything away from Boston, but when you look at the numbers the central division put up, it was a tough division to hit. 
 
Q.  Ozzie, Jose eliminated Ramirez, Ortiz in those two hits, is that kind of key what he did today?
 
OZZIE GUILLEN:  You see Jose last couple of months, he throw the same way he throw today.  Like I say, you have those guys in the lineup and you pray for the best.  I think the way he was throwing, he was throwing strikes.  He throw a quality pitch, and you have to do that with that team because they will score in a heartbeat. 
 
Q.  What was your reaction when he went to third and the fourth inning?
 
OZZIE GUILLEN:  I didn't hear you. 
 
Q.  What was your reaction when Iguchi went to third, what was your reaction?
 
OZZIE GUILLEN:  I wanted to say no, no, no to that a boy, good job, and I was screaming, no, no, but good play.  I don't think it was the right play but it worked out pretty good for us. 
 
Q.  Ozzie, with two out in the first, what was your reaction when you saw Pierzynski try to lay down a bunt down the third baseline, and was he maybe the only guy in the White Sox uniform who is more quotable than you are?
 
OZZIE GUILLEN:  I doubt it.  That's the way it is.  I don't think people like it.  We've got to keep staying on it no matter how many runs we have.  We have to play our game and that is to try to put a lot of people on the base, and today was great.  We hit a lot of home runs, and we've got to come out and say we've got to do it again tomorrow.  Hopefully, if that situation happens, it will be great. 
 
Q.  When you guys got A.J., it was such a controversial move.  What has he meant to the team, and did you ever see the background?
 
OZZIE GUILLEN:  We keep him in control.  This kid's been great.  Everything he brings to the ballpark is great heart, and once in a while you've got to make him come down and just help your teammate.  He's great, I think, and a lot of people thought we were going to have problems, and a lot of people thought his character and mine will be a little bit different, but it's been great for us. 
 
Q.  Ozzie, coming into the series a lot of people were saying you guys are the underdog.  Is this a statement game for you guys?
 
OZZIE GUILLEN:  Well, it's fun when you go home and say, well, I'm not supposed to win the game.  Besides that, our pitching staff carried this team all the way to right now, and I still believe they're still carrying us.  It's nice to see a lot of guys score a lot of runs because our pitching staff can breathe a little bit.  The offense still continues to do what they're doing and hopefully my pitching staff will do what they do all year long. 
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT