BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 25, 2010
Robin Soderling
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. FEDERER/R. Soderling
  7-6, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. The backhand at 6-5 and also the first game of the second set, you had two breakpoints, do you think those were the two key turning points?
 ROBIN SODERLING: Well, we will never know. But of course, you know, I think against a player like Roger, you know, you need to have a little bit of luck to win. And I definitely didn't have the luck on my side today. 
 I'm not saying I would have won anyway. But, you know, those two points were really big and I needed both of them. 

 Q. On the set point when you let the ball go, did you know immediately it was a mistake? 
 ROBIN SODERLING: Well, I think he miss-hit it a little bit. At first I was pretty sure it was going out. As soon as I let it go, I felt like this one is going much closer to the line than I expected. Of course, it went in. So, yeah, it was a little bit unlucky. But it's my fault. 

 Q. Since you played with Andy Murray and Federer, could you compare a little bit what the different feeling is to play against these two guys? Who do you think may be in better form? 
 ROBIN SODERLING: They're very different players. You know, they're both great players, of course. Me personally, I think it's always a little bit more difficult to play against Roger. He's playing a little bit faster. Maybe Murray, his defensive game is a little bit better than Roger. But, of course, they're both really good players and they're both really tough to play against, so... 

 Q. You've done very well this year. Career-high ranking. Assuming this is your last match, moving on to next year, are you playing any tournaments in the lead-up to the Australian? Do you feel confident about keeping up this level of form?
 ROBIN SODERLING: Yeah, I think I played pretty well now for two years and I don't see why I shouldn't play well next year. Yeah, I will play in Brisbane before Melbourne next year. First, of course, I will have a little bit of rest and then I will try to practice hard a couple of weeks before I leave for Australia. 

 Q. You seem to be flying the flag on your own for Swedish tennis. What do you think is the problem with Swedish tennis?
 ROBIN SODERLING: I don't know. I don't think. I'm not the right guy to ask, you know. Of course, we had so many good players in the past. But I think it's not really fair to ask for that many players again. I mean, Sweden is a very small country. I think we shouldn't compare to what has been. I think we should focus on what's coming. 
 Of course, it doesn't look very good. But I think there's still a couple of good juniors coming up, and the Federation is working much better again. So hopefully in a few years' time, I won't be the only Swedish player on tour.

 Q. Does that actually put more pressure on you? Does that change the way you think at all?
 ROBIN SODERLING: No, not really. Of course, you know, tennis is an individual sport. I'm very focused on my own game. 
 But, of course, you know, when I first started to play on tour, we were a lot of Swedes. It was much easier. We had more fun outside the court. We could practice together. We could help each other. It's not the case anymore. 
 So, of course, it was a little bit more easy a couple of years ago. 

 Q. You had a great year, very consistent. What do you think you can still improve? Don't answer that you can improve everything because I know. 
 ROBIN SODERLING: Everything (smiling). 

 Q. What do you need more? For instance, today, I think some volleys were at eight, over number 5 or 4 in the world, and you lost your first break because you didn't go to the net on the previous ball. 
 ROBIN SODERLING: Yes, of course, it's one of the things I'm working on. I'm also working a lot with my movement around the court. I think I improved a little bit on that. But I still have much more job to do. 
 But again, you know, you don't want me to say 'everything,' but I think I need to improve everything. Even though my forehand is good, I can still hit it a little bit better, I can use it a little bit different. My serve is good, but I can still try to work on the percentage on my first serve. Backhand is good, but... 
 It can be everything. 
 That's what you need to do if you want to be on top of the game. 

 Q. You were just talking about your start to the year with Brisbane. When will you begin training? Where will you train? How far in advance will you get to Australia? 
 ROBIN SODERLING: Oh, I will have a little bit of vacation now. It's been a very long season. I feel it both physically and mentally. And then I will probably practice a couple of weeks in Monte-Carlo before I leave for Australia. I will probably leave one or two days after Christmas. 

 Q. Just in case Ferrer beats Murray in straight sets tonight, you probably will end up playing Nadal on Saturday. Any thoughts about playing him on this kind of surface? 
 ROBIN SODERLING: No, I won't be playing him 'cause I will be at home then. 
 THE MODERATOR: Robin is out of the tournament. 

 Q. Are you going to Sweden for Christmas? 
 ROBIN SODERLING: I will be in Monte-Carlo for practice and then I will go back to Sweden to visit my family for a couple of days for Christmas and then, yeah, leave for Australia. That's my plan. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT