BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 23, 2010
Robin Soderling
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. SODERLING/D. Ferrer
  7-5, 7-5 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. How comfortable were you today in comparison to the match you played against Murray on Sunday?   
 ROBIN SODERLING: Well, it was an okay match, I think, you know. I served very well, especially in the first set. I served very good.   
 But it was tough, you know. It was a close match, two really tough sets. I'm lucky that I won.   
 I still feel that I have a lot of things that I can improve. Hopefully I can do that in one or two days' time and play a good match in my next match.   
  
  Q. How good are you in maths, mathematics? Do you know how many games you have to do?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: Not so good. I didn't go so many years to school (smiling).   
  
  Q. But do you know what can happen when you play Federer, that if he makes more than five games, there's any way to qualify?   
 ROBIN SODERLING: No, I didn't think about it. You know, I want to win the match. It's easier. You know, I played so many matches. Every time I go on court playing a match, I step on the court to win.   
 I don't think about the results; I just want to win.   
  
  Q. How did it affect you today knowing you had to win that match to stay in contention?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: It's not very different from every other match I play on tour every year: it's either win or lose. So I get kind of used to it. I didn't think about it.   
 As I said, I just want to win every match. This was a really important win. Now at least I have the chance to make it to the semis.   
  
  Q. You were here last year. The court, is it completely equal or do you find differences? Is it slower? Do you have to adapt to any kind of thing?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: Well, I think maybe the bounce is a little bit lower this year. It's pretty much the same. When I first got here, first couple days it was pretty slow. But the more you play on it, the faster it gets.   
 I really felt that today. Today, it was much faster than my first match.   
  
  Q. What is your game plan against Roger?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: Play well (smiling).   
 You know, he's a really tough player. He's No. 2 in the world. He's playing really good right now. He played two unbelievable matches so far in this tournament.   
 But like always against him, you know, I need to serve and return well and try to be aggressive. You know, he's playing really fast. It's really tough to play against him when he's on.   
 I have to try and not give him too much time.   
  
  Q. Let's say that you have the chance to pick up the court where to play against Federer. Which surface would you choose? What about this one?   
 ROBIN SODERLING: Yeah, this is a pretty good surface I think. You know, my only win is on clay, of course. But I had many tough matches against him, and I came pretty close both indoors and on grass.   
 You know, that's a pretty good feeling I have. You know, I can play well on every surface.   
 So, I don't know. I pick this surface. Exactly like it is here (smiling).   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT