BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 21, 2010
Robin Soderling
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. MURRAY/R. Soderling
  6-2, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. It was a difficult start for you. 
 ROBIN SODERLING: Yes. Yeah, I think I didn't start off very well. First set was not very good. I wasn't really there. I think second set was better. But he played better than me today. 

 Q. Is there a reason why you weren't there? 
 ROBIN SODERLING: No. I think, you know, I was hitting the ball pretty well. But, as I said, in the beginning, I just wasn't there. 
 And then, well, the last couple of weeks have been really tough for me. You know, I played a lot of matches. I dealt with some stomach problems. But, you know, now I feel fine. 
 But it was tough today. 

 Q. Obviously the pace of the court was hugely different out there to what it was in Paris last week. Did that have any bearing? 
 ROBIN SODERLING: No. Well, I've been here for a few days now practicing. I've been playing pretty well on practice. 
 I think this is a surface that suits my game pretty well. You know, I played good matches on this surface. So I think it's good for me. 

 Q. How impressed were you with Andy's performance today, his level? Were you surprised how well he started? 
 ROBIN SODERLING: No. Well, I think, you know, he played really well. He served really well. Maybe that's the only thing I was a little bit surprised with, you know, the way he served. He was putting a lot of first serves in. Yeah, he served well. 
 Then, you know, he was defending really well. I think I was hitting the ball pretty hard sometimes, try to be aggressive. You know, every time I came to the net, he came up with a really good shot. 
 All credit to him because he really played well today. 

 Q. As you just mentioned, you came to the net quite a few times, but he kept passing you. Was that a predetermined strategy, to come in?
 ROBIN SODERLING: Yeah. Well, as I said, I was hitting the ball okay. I really felt that I had him on the run actually a lot of times. I really had some good chances to come to the net, which I did. 
 But then again, you know, he was passing really well. Every time I came in at the net, you know, he came up with a really good shot. So he was just too good. 

 Q. Can you compare the speed of the court with last year? Is it the same? 
 ROBIN SODERLING: Yeah, I'd say it's pretty much the same. Last year it was pretty slow in the beginning, but the more you play on it, the faster it gets. And I feel it's a little bit the same this year. 
 So it's pretty much the same. 

 Q. To qualify for the semifinal, you have two tough opponents. How do you feel about that?
 ROBIN SODERLING: I have to focus one match at a time. Now I lost the first match. 
 The good thing is I still have a chance. I have two really tough matches coming up. Again, you know, I have to focus on the first one. Hopefully I can play a little bit better in this one. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT