CHINA OPEN
October 7, 2010
Robin Soderling
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. SODERLING/N. Almagro
  7-5, 4-6, 6-3

 THE INTERPRETER: Questions, please. 

 Q. Seemed like you used your serve today to get yourself out of quite a few jams. Was that a big factor today? Also, could you just comment in general on the match?
 ROBIN SODERLING: Yeah, I think we both served really well, especially like on all the important points.
 Yeah, I'm really happy with my serve. I think, you know, when I'm serving well, I'm always playing well, because it makes it easier, you know, to relax and play my game and in my return games, as well.
 You know, I think it was a good match, very small margins, but I was able to play really well to break him in the third set. 

 Q. During the game, did the frequent yellings of your opponent affect your performance?
 ROBIN SODERLING: I'm sorry? 

 Q. During the game, did the frequent yellings of your opponent influence your performance?
 ROBIN SODERLING: No, not really. I think, as I said, it was a good match. I played against him a lot of times, and, you know, I was prepared. That's the way he is doing during matches. So, you know, I wasn't surprised. It didn't affect me. 

 Q. Just wanting to know if the weather conditions this afternoon affected your game in any way and how you deal when the air is not so good, and also when the floodlights came on a bit early, as well. Does the smog effect you in any way and can you prepare for it at all?
 ROBIN SODERLING: We were just discussing if it's smog or fog. I don't know, but it's... 

 Q. Well, the U.S. embassy in Beijing have a monitor by the hour, and it says it's at hazardous levels. 
 ROBIN SODERLING: Yeah, well, I was a little bit surprised when I looked out this morning and saw the weather, because I couldn't see the sun. I think it was pretty okay, you know. I didn't have any problems breathing or anything. 
 I think it was a good match. At least, you know, we didn't have to bother with the sun in our eyes or anything like that, so it was good. (Smiling.)

 Q. I can see that you have your eye on the TV. Would you like to play Andy in the semis? Sorry, I couldn't help but notice. 
 ROBIN SODERLING: (Smiling.) Well, I mean, I'm playing against Ferrer now and he's a great player. He played so well this year. I have to focus on this match.
 But, you know, it's always very fun and always very nice to play against one of the world's best, so we played a couple of times and I always enjoyed the matches we had. If I'm winning tomorrow and he's winning this and the next match, it would be really fun to play against him. 

 Q. You have played with Almagro at the final of the Swedish Open this year. You lose to him. So anything you had changed today that you made a result change? 
 ROBIN SODERLING: Yeah, I tried to play a little bit more aggressive today than I did the last time we played, but it's also different matches because this one -- the last one was on clay and this one was on hard court. 
 There were a little bit difference, but I think, you know, I executed my game plan really well, was serving well and stayed aggressive, because against him you have to do it, because he's hitting the ball really hard and plays fast. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT