CHINA OPEN
October 5, 2010
Robin Soderling
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. SODERLING/T. Robredo
  4-6, 6-1, 6-4 
  
 THE INTERPRETER: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Tonight you lose the first set. How do you come back after last two sets?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: Well, yeah, I lost the first set, but I think I played pretty good, anyway. I really felt like I almost played a little bit better than him, even though he won the first set.   
 But he came up with some really good tennis at the end of the first set to break me. But then, you know, I stepped up a little bit, and I think second set was really good for me. And then, of course, it was close again in the third, but overall I felt like I was playing a little bit better than him today.  
  
  Q. I just wanted to ask you how much confidence does it give you bouncing back tonight? We've seen so many of the top players kind of bounced out of the tournament quite early, and you fought back. Tell us how, just mentally, what that does.   
 ROBIN SODERLING: Yeah, of course. I think it's always great to win tough matches for your confidence. And, I mean, to play Tommy in the first round, it's a very difficult first round, I think.  
 I think it's kind of late in the season and everybody is a little bit tired, but I'm feeling good physically and mentally, so it's really good to have this win and hopefully I can build on this and play even better in my next match.   
  
  Q. We all know you reached the French Open final twice. We want to know what you learned from that. The other question is does it surprise you you have so many fans in China?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: It's a lot of people here, so it's good to have a couple of fans. (Laughter.)  
 Yeah, I think I learned a lot from the first year in Paris. I think, you know, before that tournament my results in the Grand Slam were not so good, and then all of a sudden, you know, I made it to the fourth round for the first time.  
 After that, you know, I kind of relaxed a little bit. Then I had this great match against Rafa in the fourth round, and, you know, I think after that, you know, I realized that I can actually do well in the Grand Slams, and after that I think I have been having really good results in the Grand Slam tournaments.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT