U.S. OPEN
September 8, 2010
Robin Soderling
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. FEDERER/R. Soderling
  6-4, 6-4, 7-6 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. When you got up that break in the third set, I'm guessing you were feeling pretty good. Was the remainder of the match more about what he was doing well or what you were doing not so well?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: After the break, you mean?   
  
  Q. After the break.   
 ROBIN SODERLING: Oh, well, I broke him, but I was on the side where I played against the wind, so it was tough. He played a good game there when I served for the third set.   
 Then, well, I don't know. The margin is small. You know, there's a couple points here or there. He played well at the end.  
  
  Q. Can you describe how difficult those conditions were with the wind, the cold?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: Yeah, it was not easy. I think everybody who played, tried to play tennis in the wind, knows it's very difficult. It's not easy, but there's nothing you can do about it. I cannot change the weather, so I tried to focus on my own game.   
 I think during the circumstances, it was pretty okay.  
  
  Q. When you were frustrated during the match, was it sometimes about the weather, about your play?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: Well, I didn't put so many first serves in, as I needed to, because of the wind. It was tough for me. So I could have needed some more first serves. Maybe would have played better then.  
  
  Q. How high a level did Roger play tonight, do you think, considering the circumstances?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: Um, yeah, during the circumstances, he played well. He's a good wind player. He can play really well in the wind. He moves well. He's always in the right place. So I think he played well.  
  
  Q. When you know that these conditions are gonna be like this, I mean, is it another opponent almost? Obviously it was difficult for you. There were times when the wind died down and suddenly could see you get your rhythm. I mean, is it just another level that you have to deal with that makes it much more difficult for you?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: Well, I think it's difficult for everybody. It's the same for everybody, so there's not much you can do.   
 As I said, I cannot change the weather. So I had to focus on my own game and play as well as I could. That's what I did.  
  
  Q. Did he serve better than you expected tonight just because of the wind and the conditions? His first serve was really impressive.   
 ROBIN SODERLING: I think I always expect Roger to play well and serve well. Yeah, he served really well. He was brushing the lines a lot of times with his first serve, which is not easy when the weather, it's like this.   
 So he did that really well, much better than me.  
  
  Q. End of the Grand Slam season, how do you assess what you've done this year?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: Well, yeah, it's been okay. In Australia I was not so good. Paris and Wimbledon was very good. Here, still the quarterfinals I didn't play so well, but still a quarterfinal.   
 So so far it's been good, but still a lot of tournament coming up, big tournaments, so the season is not finished yet.  
  
  Q. Considering your comeback against Roger in the French Open from one set down, do you feel like you let yourself down a little bit today with not being more competitive, I guess, against him?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: Well, of course I'm disappointed that I didn't win, but I gave 100%; I tried my best. So then I'm happy.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT