U.S. OPEN
September 2, 2010
Robin Soderling
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. SODERLING/T. Dent
  6-2, 6-2, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Could you talk about the match, the way you felt you played today. 
 ROBIN SODERLING: Yeah, it was good. I think I was hitting the ball pretty well. Served well, especially in the two first sets. 
 You know, I managed to break him first game, which was good. And then after that, I kind of relaxed a little bit and played better. 
 So overall it was a very good match, I think. 

 Q. The expectations of you are higher going into a Grand Slam. From your perspective, do you feel that expectations are higher because of the kind of year you've been having? If so, how does that affect you?
 ROBIN SODERLING: Yeah, I feel there is some more expectations. But, you know, I played so many Grand Slams and so many tournaments, so I know what I did in previous tournaments doesn't really matter. Every tournament is a new tournament. 
 I'm pretty confident with myself. I know that I can do well when I play well. But you need to play well. No one can play well every match. So anything can happen. I can lose first round; I can go on really deep to the second week as well. 

 Q. How do you feel about playing in New York? 
 ROBIN SODERLING: I like this tournament. I like all the Grand Slams, mostly because they're so different from each other. I mean, this is definitely the loudest one. It's different, and I like it. I really enjoy playing some night matches here in the past. It's a nice tournament to play. 

 Q. It's very early in the tournament. Most players like to go match by match. Do you project ahead a little bit, what it would be like to be in a semifinal or final here?
 ROBIN SODERLING: It would be very nice. No, again, you know, there's a lot more matches to win before the semis. I have to beat a lot of good players. I have to focus on my next round. 
 I think, again, if I play well, I have a good chance. If I win, I'm into the fourth round and it's the second week. I think everything can happen. 
 But you need a little bit of luck, as well. 

 Q. You mentioned you don't play well all the time. You don't want to leave it to chance. What will you do to try to maybe help that along so it isn't just luck?
 ROBIN SODERLING: No, I'll try to work hard every day. Especially I try to work on things in my game that hasn't been working lately. And I feel like if I always give hundred percent and work hard, there's not much more you can do. 

 Q. The way you celebrated at the end suggested that was a match that could be difficult for you. Is that fair to say? 
 ROBIN SODERLING: Yeah. He's a dangerous player, especially on faster surfaces like this. But I was really happy with the way I played, and to beat him in straight sets shows that I'm playing good. 

 Q. There's been a lot of talk about what Magnus has done for you as far as making you a better player, helping you rise in the rankings. I know you're recently married. Can you talk about how that has helped you? 
 ROBIN SODERLING: I'm not married. 

 Q. What is it about being married as a pro tennis player? Is there a feeling you might lose your competitive edge if you get married?
 ROBIN SODERLING: No, I don't think so. Me and my girlfriend, we've been together for three years. I don't think it will change anything. We'll still have the same life. 

 Q. What do you know about your next opponent? 
 ROBIN SODERLING: Yeah, we actually played earlier this year I think on clay. He's a good player. I mean, he can hit very well from both sides and has a good serve. I think, you know, he's a dangerous player, especially on hard courts. 
 It's not going to be easy. 

 Q. How fast are the courts playing this year? 
 ROBIN SODERLING: They are pretty fast. I think especially when the weather is like this. Now I heard maybe it's going to cool off a little bit. Then the conditions will be probably a little bit slower. But, you know, the first couple days here it's been really fast. 

 Q. Do you prefer it a little bit slower or are you happy the way it is? 
 ROBIN SODERLING: Yeah, I think a little bit slower would suit my game a little bit better, I think. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT