U.S. OPEN
August 30, 2010
Robin Soderling
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. SODERLING/A. Haider-Maurer
  7-5, 6-3, 6-7, 5-7, 6-4 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. That was quite a battle in the end. You must be pretty pleased to have gotten through it.   
 ROBIN SODERLING: Yeah, of course. It was really a tough match and tough conditions. I think it was pretty hot. Of course I wanted to finish it in three when I had the match point, but as you said, I'm very pleased with the win.  
  
  Q. It must have been frustrating, because you could have finished it off when it was sort of an hour and a half...   
 ROBIN SODERLING: Yeah, as I said, I was very close having three or four match points and couldn't finish the match, so of course I wanted to do that. But it's better to win in five than lose in five.  
  
  Q. I'm sure better than winning in five is winning in three, especially when you're beginning a fortnight tournament. But on the other hand, one can say that starting a tournament, being pushed, being pressed, and being able to prevail in five sets is not so bad a way to start, yeah?   
 ROBIN SODERLING: No, I think I feel pretty good physically. I mean, I had almost four good hours of practice, so it's not so bad.  
  
  Q. Are you happy with the game, happy with the way you played out there?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: Yeah. Well, I think I can play better, of course, but, you know, I played worse. It's okay. I've been working hard now and still working hard, so hopefully I will play better already in my next match.  
  
  Q. Do you come into this tournament feeling that expectations are higher of you now than ever before entering this particular tournament? If so...   
 ROBIN SODERLING: Well, no -- well, I try not to care too much about expectations. You know, I play for myself, and I know that if I play well I can do really well here. But I played for so long now that I know that every player, every opponent is dangerous, and you have to play -- you have to play well to win.   
 I think that shows today. I played against a qualifier. I don't know his ranking, but it's not so high, and it was a very close match.  
  
  Q. Are you as confident entering this tournament as you've ever been at this time of the season?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: It's been a little bit up and down for me this season. I think I played really well in Paris and in Wimbledon, and then after that I didn't play so well for a couple of tournaments.   
 But as I said, you know, I've been working hard. I played for so long now, and it's been a lot of up and downs for me. So far, it's always been better after a while when I didn't play so well, and I'm pretty sure it will come soon.  
  
  Q. Is the confidence high when you go into a Grand Slam? You talked about both Wimbledon and Roland Garros where you obviously played well. Do you then arrive at Grand Slams with an extra sort of buzz about it? Seems to bring out the best in you.   
 ROBIN SODERLING: I think everybody wants to do well in the Grand Slam. I'm very happy the way I've been playing in the bigger tournaments now for the last year and a half or almost two years.  
 I think I showed that I can go very, very deep in every Grand Slam. Yeah, I think I showed that for many tournaments now. But again, you know, you have to play well, you know. I can't just go on court and not fight and not playing well. Then you will lose.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT