WIMBLEDON
June 30, 2010
Robin Soderling
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. NADAL/R. Soderling
  3-6, 6-3, 7-6, 6-1 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Good afternoon, everyone. Robin Soderling.   
  
  Q. It was a brilliant start for you. What will you say went wrong for you or what went right for Nadal?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: Well, I think the difference was that he returned a little bit better than me. Uhm, I was a little bit frustrated today because I didn't put many returns in.   
 Of course, he served pretty well. But it's not like I'm playing one of the best servers on tour. I have to at least put some more returns back in play.   
  
  Q. How was your left foot? You received some treatment at the end of the third set. Was that hampering you a bit?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: Well, I have a small blister on my toe. I won't die. I think I'll be fine.  
  
  Q. So it's no reason...   
 ROBIN SODERLING: Well, again, I had a small blister on my toe, so nothing serious.  
  
  Q. Did you think it would be more politic to wait until the end of the set, given he was about to serve?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: Well, it was hurting me quite a lot. I think it's better to have it fixed than play with it. Don't you think?   
  
  Q. Do you think you rushed the first set?   
 ROBIN SODERLING: I'm sorry?   
  
  Q. Do you think you rushed the first set, you were in a hurry?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: I think I started well. And, you know, in first set I was a bit lucky to win the breakpoints. During the last three sets, I had my chances. Well, in the second and the third. I didn't really take them. So I think that was the biggest difference.   
  
  Q. At the start of the second set you successfully challenged the call. Rafa was quite upset that he lost that point. Do you think that kind of fired him up that he improved after that?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: No. I don't know, I haven't thought about it. It was a really important point. And, you know, I had the ball in play on the breakpoint, but he played well.   
 I don't know if that was a change. But, again, it was a really important one for me.   
  
  Q. You had points on a lot of his service games. I think he had very few when he saved to love. Do you feel he was serving weaker than he has in the past or were you returning well, especially at the start?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: No, I think he served like he always does. He put a lot of first serves in. He doesn't have a huge serve, but it's pretty good, especially on grass.   
 I didn't return so well. I was a little bit frustrated. I think in my first three matches I returned really well. Last one and this one, not so good. So I think that was the biggest difference.  
  
  Q. Do you think, like the Ferrer match, take out of you some points of stamina? I mean, did you feel a little bit tired or not so confident after the Ferrer match?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: No, no. It was a long match, but yesterday I felt good in practice. And today physically I feel fine.   
 So, no, not really.   
  
  Q. Do you think Rafa is playing as well this year as anyone? How does he compare, his level, as in the French Open?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: Well, I think he's playing well. He's hitting the ball very well. Of course, he's moving well, as always.   
 But, you know, it's very difficult to compare how he's playing on grass compared to clay. But he's the world No. 1, and I think he's playing pretty solid tennis. He's got a good chance to win this one.   
  
  Q. You say he has a good chance to win the tournament?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: I think so, yeah. I think everybody still in has a good chance. But now that Roger lost, I'd pick him as the favorite.   
  
  Q. If you were to look back and check the Rafa of 2007, the long match between you guys, and the Rafa of today, what's the difference for you?   
 ROBIN SODERLING: In his game?   
  
  Q. Yes.   
 ROBIN SODERLING: Well, I think he's playing a little bit more aggressive now on faster surfaces. I'd say on clay he's playing pretty much the same. But, again, on faster surface, he's playing a little bit more aggressive.  
  
  Q. I take it would have known about the Federer result. I think it was a bit after the first set. Did that affect your match in any way because you saw he'd gone out?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: No, no, no (laughter).   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT