WIMBLEDON
June 28, 2010
Robin Soderling
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. SODERLING/D. Ferrer
  6-2, 5-7, 6-2, 3-6, 7-5 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Congratulations. Is this another important step in your career, reaching a quarterfinals at Wimbledon?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: Yeah. Well, of course it's always nice to be in the quarters in any Grand Slam.  
 I think last year I had my best result so far reaching the fourth round, and now one step further at least.   
 Yeah, it's good.  
  
  Q. Do you feel your game on grass is improving?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: Well, yeah, I think that my game overall is improving. I think I always could do well on any surface, grass included.  
 So I'm playing better and better. You know, I think I can do well, again, on any surface.  
  
  Q. This was a closer contest that your last three. Is that just because the opponent was a higher standard? Do you feel you played as well today?   
 ROBIN SODERLING: I think I played okay. I think I played a little bit better in my previous matches. And even though I felt I was hitting the ball well, but I didn't return so well. My first serve percentage wasn't good enough.  
 Apart from that, I think it was a good match. He played well.  
  
  Q. How did you find playing on Court 12. It's quite a small court. Did you find that a distraction?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: No, not really. Of course it's a bit different compared to playing on the Centre Court and Court 1.   
 But, you know, that's how it is. I think all courts here are good, so...  
  
  Q. You haven't lost your service until now. He's probably one of the most underrated returners in the game. What makes him such a tough returner?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: Yeah, as you said, I think today he returned really well. He was putting a lot of returns back in court. You know, every time I had a second serve he returned really well.  
 Unfortunately I didn't serve so well this time compared to my last matches, but I think that's why he broke me a couple times.  
  
  Q. Was that your main problem this time round? It was such a see-saw match. Was it because of the serve or a loss of concentration?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: No. Well, I think I started off the match really well, and then I had some really good chances in the second as well. I was up a break. So with a little bit of luck and if I could've played a little bit better, I think I could have taken it in straight sets.  
 Again, he played really well. At the end of the second and the third, you know, he returned really good. It was a tough match, so I'm a little bit lucky to have gone through this one.  
  
  Q. You had a medical timeout. Was that for anything serious?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: No. No. My stomach was a little bit upset. The doctor gave me a pill, and then after that it was fine.  
  
  Q. There was an instant right at the end where it looked like you spotted the ball girl looking a little bit unwell and you stopped playing. Could you talk us through what happened.   
 ROBIN SODERLING: Actually, at first I didn't understand what was happening. You know, all of a sudden they stopped play, and then I understood she didn't feel well. Must be tough for them to stay out there for so many hours. I hope she's fine.   
 It was just pretty bad timing, me serving for the match at match point. It could have happened a little bit earlier. But that's how it is. I hope she's fine now.  
  
  Q. What happened to Magnus?   
 ROBIN SODERLING: He played squash and he hurt his foot a bit. That's it.   
  
  Q. You're a Swede in the last eight at Wimbledon. That will excite a lot of people. What are your memories of the Swedes that came before you at Wimbledon?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: I remember when I was a kid, you know, I was watching Edberg playing against Becker in the finals. I always loved to watch the bigger tournaments, especially Wimbledon, such an old tournament with a lot of tradition.  
 So it's nice to be in the eight in this one.  
  
  Q. When you were growing up, which Grand Slam did you dream of winning?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: All of them. (Laughter.) Many times.   
 No, of course I think, for me, Wimbledon is the biggest one. Even though, you know, if I had to pick one I really wanted to win, I would pick Wimbledon.   
 But it would be okay to win French and US Open as well.  
  
  Q. Obviously looks like you'll be up against Nadal again. Given your success against him in the past, you must relish that contest.   
 ROBIN SODERLING: Yeah, it's gonna be an extremely tough match. He's world No. 1. We played a lot of times and had a lot of tough matches.  
 Again, it's a quarterfinals in a Grand Slam. It's gonna be tough for sure. But, you know, I think it's definitely easier to play him on any other surface than clay.   
  
  Q. What was the key to your success against him in the past, do you think, that you have to reproduce?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: Well, I think you have to do everything well to beat him. He's such a great player and he moves so well and has a great offensive game and also a great defensive game.  
 Um, I have to play my own game and take initiative pretty early in the points and serve well.   
  
  Q. Are the courts to your liking? Or if it were a little bit colder the ball would bounce a little bit lower, would you prefer it?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: I'm not sure. I think I -- only looking at myself, you know, I think I play a little bit better when it's hotter and it's bouncing a little bit higher. But I think Rafa would probably say the same.  
 To me, doesn't really matter. I take whatever condition it is.  
  
  Q. Roger Federer made an interesting comment. He was talking about the England/Germany game, and said that the best players need to play the best players to bring the best out of themselves. Is that something you can relate to?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: No, not really. You know, I always try to do my best in any match. But maybe it's different for Roger because he won so many matches and he played so many Grand Slam finals.  
 Me, I think, you know, I'm trying my best all the time. Sometimes I play well; sometimes I'm not playing as well. That's tennis.   
  
  Q. What do you think about next round probably against Nadal? He's winning. Just one game.   
 ROBIN SODERLING: Yeah, if I play him, you know, as I said sure it's gonna be a really tough match. He's a great player, of course. He's the world No. 1. So I have to play well.   
 I think if I can do that I have an decent chance.  
  
  Q. Better than today?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: If I have to play better?  
  
  Q. Better than today.  
 ROBIN SODERLING: I'm not sure. It's gonna be a different match. He's a left-hander, and he's not really playing the same style. So I have to think about that.   
 But I always hope to play better. You know, I always hope to play really well every match. Hopefully I will do that.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT