WIMBLEDON
June 22, 2010
Robin Soderling
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. SODERLING/R. Ginepri
  6-2, 6-2, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Robin. 

 Q. You didn't play any tournament prior to this one. Why was that? Why did you opt for not playing? 
 ROBIN SODERLING: It was actually the same as last year. I was entered to play Halle. I felt like after Paris I played so many matches. I finished the final on Sunday and I had to go the next day to Halle. 
 It was just a little bit too much. I wanted to rest that week and then have a week off and then have a week of good preparations with a lot of practice. I got in one practice match, which was very good. 

 Q. Those were two pretty intense weeks in Paris. 
 ROBIN SODERLING: Yeah. 

 Q. Of course, you had the previous experience from last year. How did you deal with all the emotions and physical requirements you had throughout those two weeks and the following days?
 ROBIN SODERLING: Well, it was actually much easier this year. Last year it was a little bit tough, of course, you know, playing in my first Grand Slam final. It was really big for me. I was really tired one or even two weeks after the tournament's finished. 
 But this year was much easier. I felt fine only after a couple of days' rest. I think I learned a lot from last year's Roland Garros, not only that tournament but from the whole last year when I played a lot of big matches against good players. 

 Q. We don't know your next opponent yet because Granollers is going to play Frederico Gil from Portugal next. You know Granollers. Do you know Frederico Gil? 
 ROBIN SODERLING: Yes, I know him, but I never played him, I don't think. Granollers, I played a couple times. He's a tough player to beat. We had a really tight match here last year, and he beat me in Australia. I think either one, it's going to be a really tough match and I have to play at least the same way I did today. 

 Q. Your opponent today said you gave him a drumming. He said you just served him off the court. 
 ROBIN SODERLING: Yeah, I served really well. I think when I do that, especially on grass, you know, I always play well. Of course, it's always difficult to break me. Then I can relax a little bit in the return games. 
 And today I really did that. I think I played a really good first-round match. 

 Q. He only had two breakpoints. You aced him both times. 
 ROBIN SODERLING: Yeah, that's bringing out the best serves when it really matters. It's great. 
 But, you know, as I said, when I serve well, I normally play well, as well. 

 Q. Any advice for him?
 ROBIN SODERLING: For him? Well, you know, every match is different. He actually beat me this year in Chennai. He's a great player. He will probably do well in the future. 

 Q. No Englishmen here. Just one Swedish player. What can you say? What's going on in your country? Can you give us an official opinion? 
 ROBIN SODERLING: Well, I don't think I'm the right person to ask. But, of course, we had a down period in Sweden now for a while. We had so much success in the past with so many good players. 
 But I think it's like that for any country. You know, you cannot produce good players all the time. I think we have a couple of good juniors doing pretty well. So hopefully, in a few years' time, I won't be the only Swedish player on tour. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT