BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 27, 2009
Robin Soderling
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. DAVYDENKO/R. Soderling
  7-6, 4-6, 6-3 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. It seemed you were concentrated just on winning one set to guarantee the first place, not to face Federer tomorrow. It seemed you stopped fighting in the final set. Is it true?   
 ROBIN SODERLING: No.   
  
  Q. Are you sure?   
 ROBIN SODERLING: Yes, I'm sure.   
  
  Q. They are discussing the round robin system. What is your opinion about that? Is it complicated for the ones that don't pass? What is your opinion?   
 ROBIN SODERLING: I think it's good, you know. It's only eight players here. I think it's good for us and it's good for the fans to see us play, see everyone play, at least three matches. So I think it's good.   
  
  Q. What do you think about your match against Del Potro tomorrow?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: It's gonna be a tough match, that's for sure. He plays really well. You know, he serves big. He's hitting his forehand very well and plays fast.   
 So I think I have to play very well to have a chance. For sure I have to play better than today.   
  
  Q. What do you remember about the last match against Juan Martin Del Potro and what do you have to do to win tomorrow?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: I have to serve well. I have to move well. I think I have to do everything well 'cause he's a good player. He doesn't give you many chances. He's probably very confident now, beating Roger yesterday.   
 So I have to step it up at least one level from today's match. But I think I can do it. I played good this whole week. I've been playing well the last couple of months. So I think I can play well tomorrow and hopefully I will have a chance.   
  
  Q. Can you describe your feelings to be the first Swede in the semis since a long time? Does it prove to yourself that you belong amongst the very top players in the world?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: Yeah, of course. It's a great feeling. It gives me a lot of confidence beating world No. 2 and No. 3. I lost today in a close match, which with a little bit of lucky, could have won.   
 So, of course, it's a good feeling.   
  
  Q. We don't know that much about yourself outside the competition. Can you tell us about yourself, your hobbies. Looks likes you like watches?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: I like what, watches? Yeah, I like watches. Can we take it some other time?   
  
  Q. After the three tough matches, how are you about your physical shape?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: It's good. So far I feel good. Today was maybe the longest match, and I had to run pretty much. But I still feel pretty good, and hopefully I will wake up tomorrow feeling good, as well.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT