BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 25, 2009
Robin Soderling
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. SODERLING/N. Djokovic
  7-6, 6-1

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Mats Wilander said before the tournament that you were able to be in the semifinals here. How do you feel about that?
 ROBIN SODERLING: Well, it's great. Top eight, top nine guys in the world here. I mean, I won two matches in straight sets against world No. 2 and No. 3. I couldn't have asked for anything more. 
 So far I'm enjoying it a lot. But there's still at least two more matches to go. I hope to do really well in those two, as well. 

 Q. You coming in as an alternate, not expecting to be here in the first place, is the feeling different to a tournament where you are the top speed or playing at home and there's a lot of expectations on you? Do you feel your game is reacting differently under those circumstances?
 ROBIN SODERLING: No, I wouldn't say so. I always put a lot of pressure on myself. But I never really cared about the pressure from others. You know, I try to focus on my own game. 
 But I knew for a pretty long time that I was going to be at least first alternate here, so I prepared as, you know, I was going to play. I went there pretty early on Wednesday already to practice. 
 You know, I try to take one match at a time. I know I have to play well in every match. And so far I've been playing really good. Hopefully I can continue in the same way. 

 Q. The other day you were asked about Denmark winning the World Cup in 1992. I don't remember if you said you didn't remember. 
 ROBIN SODERLING: I wasn't very old, but... 

 Q. You will have to see it now. 
 ROBIN SODERLING: Well, again, it's still a long way to go. I heard someone told me I'm already through to the semis. I will focus on my next match before that. Then there's at least -- I mean, I have to win two more matches against great players. I don't think I'm even halfway through, so... 

 Q. You've had some pretty big results this year. Where would you rate what you've achieved at this tournament amongst the results you've had in 2009?
 ROBIN SODERLING: Oh, it's tough. It's different, for sure, you know. I only won two matches so far, but it's against, as I said, world No. 2 and No. 3. I don't think I ever done that before, you know, back to back. Except for the Grand Slam, the Grand Slam is the biggest tournament of the year. It's very good, but there's still more to come. 

 Q. If you had to choose one player not to face in the semifinals, who would it be?
 ROBIN SODERLING: Who do you think (laughter)? I think the answer is pretty obvious. 
 But, you know, I played Roger many, many times. For every time he beat me, I think I will get closer to a win, so we'll see. There's not much I can do about the results in the other group. So, again, we'll see. 
 But it's going to be tough whoever I play. 

 Q. In the past when I've seen you play, you've always seemed quite an emotional person on the court. Occasionally you lose your temper if it doesn't go well for you. You seem really in control of your emotions for this week, and you have for a number of months. Has something happened specifically the way you approach the game?
 ROBIN SODERLING: Yes. At least I try to work a lot on it. But, you know, I said it a lot of times before. My temper has helped me a lot of times in the past. Of course, I lost a lot of matches because of my temper. But it seems like everyone is always talking about the matches I lost, not the matches I won because of my temper. 
 But, you know, I think I have a little bit of a different approach to everything this year compared to the other years. 

 Q. You may not remember '92 in Denmark, but in '95, Wayne Ferreira came to the ATP Masters as an alternate and he beat Kafelnikov, he beat Sampras, then he lost by an inch three sets to Becker. Did you know that story?
 ROBIN SODERLING: No. 

 Q. He said he was so relaxed. He was almost going hunting in South Africa when he was called at the last minute, went to Frankfurt and played well. Were you relaxed, too? Do you think that helps, that you have nothing to lose, this strange situation, or not? 
 ROBIN SODERLING: No. Before my first match, I wasn't very relaxed. I was pretty nervous. For me, doesn't really matter. You know, I think I told you, before my first match, you know, it doesn't really matter if I was world No. 1 or first alternate, I still want to win every match. And sometimes I put a little bit too much pressure on myself. I try to work on that. 
 But, you know, again, I still want to win every match. So for me, doesn't really matter. 

 Q. The last Swede to play at least three matches at a season-ending tournament was your coach in 2000. You've emulated a few things he achieved in his career. Did he give you advice as to what to expect in this tournament, because it's unlike any other tournament through the year? 
 ROBIN SODERLING: No, he told me to see it as any other tournament. You know, he told me when he was here, he was very tired, so he couldn't really give hundred percent. I feel pretty good physically, even though it's been a very long year. 
 But, again, I try to see it as any other tournament. So far it's been working. 

 Q. Which facet do you think you improved in your game to make these huge results?
 ROBIN SODERLING: Which aspect? 

 Q. Yes, aspect, the one you improved on most this year to record these results. 
 ROBIN SODERLING: I think I'm moving a lot better this year compared to last year and the year before. That's the biggest thing. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT