WIMBLEDON
June 29, 2009
Robin Soderling
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. FEDERER/R. Soderling
  6-4, 7-6, 7-6 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Mr. Soderling. Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Just near the end when you got the mini break up, he knocked back a forehand winner to you and you got a pretty big smile on your face. It seemed to suggest, That's all I have; you're too good. Would you say that summed it up?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: No. But, you know, I think I -- at 5-4 I think I played a very good point. I hit a great forehand on the line and he came up with a winner. It's not much to do.   
 Apart from maybe the double-fault, I don't think that I lost the last tiebreak, I think he won it.   
  
  Q. You've played him 11 times now and lost 11 times. Going into a match like that, do you think this might be your time?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: Thanks for reminding me, by the way.   
 Yeah, yeah, I think like every time I go on court against doesn't matter who I'm playing, I have to believe that I can win. I mean, I never want to go on court and think I'm gonna lose. That's not a good way of thinking, so I always believe in myself.   
  
  Q. Are you getting closer to him or not?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: I think so. You know, I think I played better today than I did the last couple times we played. So today wasn't -- I mean, I lost in straight sets, but I think deserved maybe a better ending - a little bit at least.  
  
  Q. How are you feeling physically compared to the other day?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: I feel good. I feel much better. Getting better.   
  
  Q. Have you ever served so well and still lost a match?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: Of course, I think so, yeah. I served good today, but, you know, I served much better before.   
  
  Q. If you could pick a game you would like to play against him, with Federer, out of tennis, what would it be?   
 ROBIN SODERLING: I think I will beat him in marathon - easy.   
  
  Q. Do you now think that Roger will go on to win Wimbledon?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: There's a lot of good players still in the tournament. It's going to be tough. But I think he's the biggest favorite.   
 If he plays well, I think he's gonna win. But, you know, he definitely need to play well every match.   
  
  Q. He only broke your serve once. Did that surprise you?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: No. I didn't expect to be broken many times. You know, I've only been broken I think twice during this tournament, maybe three times. So, you know, I've been serving very well since the first match.   
 That's what I always do. When I serve well, I always play well, as well.   
  
  Q. Why the marathon?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: I'm pretty good at marathon. I'm a strong guy. I think I'm stronger than him.   
  
  Q. Comparing to other matches against Federer, what do you think about his performance today?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: I think he played well, like always when we played. He's a great grass court player, and I think he's -- the faster surface he plays on, I think the more aggressive he plays.   
 So today it was really fast. He was tough. So I think he played very well today.   
  
  Q. Did you find him harder or easier to come up against than in France?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: Well, he played great both matches. But I think I played a little bit better today.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT