SONY ERICSSON OPEN
March 27, 2011
Robin Soderling
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. DEL POTRO/R. Soderling
  6-3, 6-2

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. I'm from Mexico, Robin. How do you feel about the tournament? I understand that it was a difficult match, and I would like to know your perception about playing the first match and having such a difficult match against Del Potro?
 ROBIN SODERLING: Well, I don't think it mattered who I played. You know, it's a matter of just me not playing good at all right now. I mean, I struggled really much for two tournaments now, and it's been really tough. 
 So I definitely not playing good tennis right now.

 Q. How is the situation, how is your perception coming into the clay season? How do you feel after a difficult two tournaments in the hard court season?
 ROBIN SODERLING: Yeah, well, you know, I always like to play on clay. It's a surface where I have played well before and I have good results. 
 Hopefully I can work pretty well now for a couple of weeks, and then, you know, at the start of clay I be playing good.

 Q. Obviously Juan Martin, that's a tough floater third round; that should be a final. Were you prepared for such a tough match so early in the tournament?
 ROBIN SODERLING: Yeah, I'm always prepared for tough matches. You know, I know anyone can be a danger, you know. I have to play well every match to have a chance to win, which I didn't do.
 And then that's why I'm here with a loss.

 Q. Did he show you something today that you haven't seen from him since the wrist surgery? Was this the old Juan Martin maybe from two years ago?
 ROBIN SODERLING: Well, I don't know. I haven't seen him play since his comeback. I played him at the end of 2009, and we had a tough match.
 I'm not sure. You know, obviously he's playing well. I wish I could have played a little bit better.

 Q. Was the weather a factor for you today at all?
 ROBIN SODERLING: Why? Why? 

 Q. The weather?
 ROBIN SODERLING: The weather why? 

 Q. The heat. 
 ROBIN SODERLING: No. No, I mean, it's been like this every day. I played good here before, so it was fine.

 Q. In February you played very solid, two tournament wins. I have the feeling players just tried everything against, but you just won all your matches. What's the difference now?
 ROBIN SODERLING: Well, I played 10 times better then. That's the biggest difference now. The indoor tournaments I play really well. I didn't miss at all; I was serving well; moving well now. 
 I'm not doing any of that, you know. But I had some tough times after Marseilles. I got sick, and, you know, I have some small injuries which I struggled with for a while. I haven't been able to practice the way I wanted to. 
 But, you know, again, I wish I played a little bit better, at least.

 Q. What was wrong? Was it just technical or anything else bothering you?
 ROBIN SODERLING: No, I'm not playing well. I'm not feeling well. I'm not moving well. I'm not serving well. 
 You know, my serve is normally my biggest weapon. I'm not serving well. My backhand is not good. There are a lot of things I need to work on. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT