SONY ERICSSON OPEN
March 25, 2011
Robin Soderling
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. SODERLING/I. Dodig
  3-6, 6-2, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. How was your level of confidence, considering last week you lost kind of early at Indian Wells and after this tough victory today in Miami?
 ROBIN SODERLING: Yeah, well, I think, you know, I had a great start of the year. I won three titles already. 
 Of course obviously in Indian Wells I didn't play the way I wanted to, but I had some problems when I got there. You know, I was in bed with fever for five days, and then it was tough to -- I didn't have too many days to prepare. Then, yeah, I didn't play so well. 
 Then here, you know, first round is always very difficult. Obviously I didn't play my best tennis today, but I'm still very happy that I won. I know I can wake up tomorrow feeling great.

 Q. Novak was talking the other day about how confidence means everything. Jim Courier was saying the same thing last night. Did you get your first burst of confidence at Sunrise two years ago, the challenger?
 ROBIN SODERLING: No. Well, I'm not sure. I think it goes -- in a career it goes up and down, you know. You have moments when you have great confidence, and then there comes moments when you're not feeling as good on court.
 But I think through hard work and to win many matches, it's the best thing for confidence. As you said, Novak said confidence. I think everybody can play well. And then no matter who you play against, you know, it's always gonna be a tough match.
 I think, you know, the one who wins the matches is the one who really can play well on the important moments in the match, and that's much easier to do if you have good confidence.

 Q. Kohlschreiber or Del Potro going forward. Any preferences?
 ROBIN SODERLING: Ah, well, they're both good players. I lost to Kohlschreiber last week, and Del Potro I haven't played for a while. I think it's gonna be a good match. It's tough to say. Again, it's going to be very difficult for me.

 Q. Chris Bosh came by the other night, basketball player, 6'10." Seems like he fit in in the locker room. The players are getting taller and taller. Do you feel like that's the way the game's going? I mean, little guys are getting squeezed out?
 ROBIN SODERLING: Ah, well, I think like every sport, I think tennis is get more physical. I think, you know, the game has improved a lot in just only 10 years. Yeah, I think, you know, the service is very important in today's tennis, and of course it's easier to have a good serve if you're taller. 
 But there's still also the smaller guys who's doing really well. But if you're not that tall, I think it's really important that you move really well.

 Q. David Ferrer... 
 ROBIN SODERLING: Like him, yeah.

 Q. If he was a little taller he would be a Grand Slam champ, right?
 ROBIN SODERLING: Then it's tough to move the way he is right now. David is a great player, but as you said, there's not that many short guys on the tour now compared to maybe a few years ago. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT