BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 14, 2011
Robin Soderling
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 P. KOHLSCHREIBER/R. Soderling
  7-6, 6-4 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. It seemed like before the second set there the trainer came out to work on your left ankle. What was that all about?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: Yeah, I hurt my foot last week in Davis Cup, and since then it's been pretty bad.  
 Today it was not very good.  
  
  Q. Is it something that you've had x-rayed or examined?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: No, not yet. I will go ahead and do that now.  
  
  Q. Was that a match that got away, particularly with the first set when you had five set points in the tiebreak?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: Well, I think I lost the match even before that. I think I lost the match when I decided to go on court, because today I shouldn't have done that.  
  
  Q. You should have withdrawn rather than play today?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: I think so, yeah, now, you know. Sitting here after the match, it feels like I couldn't give 100%. I think it's pretty stupid to play.  
  
  Q. Is there a risk that you might not even play next week in Miami?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: As I said, I don't know. I haven't had it examined, so I will go ahead and do that now, and then hopefully they will -- they won't find anything bad, and then, you know, I will be able to play.   
 But I'm not sure.  
  
  Q. Did you consider withdrawing after you lost the first set? You didn't take a medical timeout, but you did have some work done on the ankle.   
 ROBIN SODERLING: Yeah, of course. But, you know, I wanted to keep on playing, you know. I didn't withdraw from many matches in my career.  
 Of course it was tough, you know, but I felt that even though I had some problems, I still had a few set points in the first set.   
 But again, you know, it was maybe stupid to continue play after the first set.  
  
  Q. Did you have issues with that foot your last match, your first match here?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: Yeah, I had it since Davis Cup last week.  
  
  Q. But you were saying today maybe you would have withdrawn. Did that cross your mind the last match, too, or even coming to Indian Wells at all?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: Well, you know, coming here I spent five days in bed with fever, so I haven't had a best preparation for this tournament.  
 Then I managed to play my first match, which was also very tough with everything. Then, you know, the more I play on the foot the worse it gets, so it's not good.  
  
  Q. To what do you attribute the rash number of injuries that's greater now than ever before? What's the reason?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: Well, we have to play a lot of tournaments. We have to play the season -- it goes into each other, you know. We have no time to rest at all. If you play well, you play many matches. It's just too much for the body.  
  
  Q. Do you have a feeling that you worsened it by playing today? Or did it feel as it felt yesterday?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: Well, it gets a little bit worse when I play. But I hope today I didn't make it too much worse.  
 I still feel, you know, it's been a couple days ago it was worse than this, so hopefully it's fine.  
  
  Q. At Davis Cup, was it a fall or misstep or...   
 ROBIN SODERLING: No, no. I felt at the end -- I only played one match, and I felt it at the end of that match. I only played a couple of more games after that, and then I had a couple of days of rest and then I got sick.   
 So I had even more rest, but apparently not enough.   
  
  Q. Kohlschreiber had a 3-1 record against you before this match, and the one win was a tough one in Rotterdam. Does his game match up well against yours?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: Yeah, he's a great player. Apart from these two last matches, we haven't played for a very long time. So the previous match, it was a long time ago.  
 But again, you know, he's a great player. When he's playing well, he's very dangerous.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT