AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 24, 2011
Robin Soderling
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. DOLGOPOLOV/R. Soderling
  1-6, 6-3, 6-1, 4-6, 6-2 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. You had your right foot taped at 4-1 in the fourth set. Did that hinder you right throughout the game? What's the extent of the injury?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: Well, I had a blister on my toe, but it's nothing serious. You know, of course it hurts a little bit, but it's nothing bad.  
  
  Q. It didn't hinder you at all?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: Maybe for one game. But then I got it retaped and fixed, and then it was fine.  
  
  Q. You won the first set. Seemed to struggle in the rest of the sets. What was the story there?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: Well, yeah, I think I struggled throughout the whole match. I won the first set, yeah, but I didn't win it because I played well.   
 You know, he wasn't on it at the start. Then he started to play much better, which I didn't. Then, you know, he played much better.  
  
  Q. What did you think of him as a player? What are some of his qualities?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: He's a good player. You know, he has a great backhand and he's moving very well. He's a great counter-puncher. He has a good chance to do really well, I think.  
  
  Q. Did you underestimate him today?   
 ROBIN SODERLING: No, no, I didn't. I never underestimate anyone. I just didn't feel good. I didn't play good enough. Simple as that.   
  
  Q. What was the problem to your foot? I think in the second set I saw something. Also on your serve, there were some first serves 136 kilometers per hour, which is not your usual speed.   
 ROBIN SODERLING: I had some problems for a couple games with the sun. It was tough to see. I tried to put it in a little bit safer.   
 But, yes, of course, 130 kilometers per hour in the first serve is not great. It's not something I'm proud of. That's how it is.   
 I struggled many times in this tournament. And I think, you know, I never had a good first month in my career. But still, you know, I won a title and made it to the fourth round here.  
 At least it's much better than the past years.  
  
  Q. You're not going to fire Pistolesi as your new coach?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: No, definitely not. He's a great coach. As I said, we had the best start ever, so I'm sure it's going to be good.   
  
  Q. Can you tell me what Pistolesi has brought to your game, some new things?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: I mean, it's still very new. We haven't worked for so long. We actually only worked for two or three weeks when I'm not playing tournaments, which is really the time you can really work on things. During tournaments it's different.   
 But, you know, he's a great coach. He's got a lot of experience. We worked on a couple of details in my game, which I think is improving.   
  
  Q. Like what?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: Like my net game. You know, I'm trying to come to the net a little bit more. We try to work on how to move at the net, which I still have a lot to learn.   
 But it's not going to be perfect in a couple of weeks. It will take some time. But I think we're both very confident that I'm going to improve.   
  
  Q. Can you put your finger on why the Australian Open has been a bit of a bogey tournament for you?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: No. I wish.  
  
  Q. Is it the weather or heat?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: No, today was not very hot. The weather's always different. You know, it's never two days in a row where you have the same conditions, which is very tough. But, of course, it's the same for every player.   
 You know, I thought it was tough for me in Australia. But, you know, I played really well in Brisbane. I played some very good tennis.   
 But this tournament, you know, I've been struggling a lot this year, too. You know, I fight through three matches, which I'm very proud of, but I never felt that I played really well, which you need to, especially in a Grand Slam.   
  
  Q. Rafa talked the other day that he wasn't playing well but managed to pull it out. Do you feel even though you weren't playing well, you should have pulled it out?   
 ROBIN SODERLING: Yeah, I had some chances. As I said, I did it for three matches. I couldn't do it for the fourth one. Yeah, I had some chances. But, you know, my two biggest weapons is my serve and my forehand. They were not weapons today. Then it's tough. I was really fighting.   
 As you said, I was up a break. Maybe with a little bit of luck, I could have won. But he played better than me.  
  
  Q. Did you have a tough time with his slice?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: Yeah, he's a good player. But mostly I had tough times with myself.   
  
  Q. Where are you going next?   
 ROBIN SODERLING: I will play in Rotterdam next.   
  
  Q. Then?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: Then probably Marseille. So two indoor tournaments in Europe.   
  
  Q. If you were to point to the main strength or skill of Dolgopolov, what would you point to? What is the main skill of this guy for you?   
 ROBIN SODERLING: He's a great player. He has a really good backhand and he's moving well. He's defending very well. He's a great counter-puncher.   
  
  Q. How much do victories over Nadal and Federer in previous years has built up a great player and you believe in yourself that you're gonna be a top player?   
 ROBIN SODERLING: Yeah, I think all my victories in the past years give me a lot of confidence. I really show to myself that I can do well, I can win a lot of matches, and really compete, yeah, for the Grand Slam tournaments, all the big tournaments.   
 I think, you know, confidence is maybe the most important thing in this sport.   
  
  Q. You're so different, at least you seem so different, to Pistolesi. He is always telling jokes. I don't know if he does it with you. But I know him since he was 18 years old. Do you like the company also or you don't see away from tennis?  
 ROBIN SODERLING: No, we spend a lot of time together. He's a great guy.   
 I think you're wrong. I think we're very similar. It's just that I don't tell you guys jokes (smiling).   
  
  Q. Well, start.   
 ROBIN SODERLING: No (smiling).   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT