NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIP
March 21, 2015
Cody Brewer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   We're joined by Cody Brewer.   Cody, let's start with an opening statement. 
CODY BREWER:   I got it going early.   I think try to get as many takedowns as I could early.   He's real funky off bottom, so it was a little tougher to ride him, I guess, than some of the other opponents I've had. 
It's national finals, so he wasn't going to give it to me easy by any means.   So credit on him on being a great opponent.   And we went back and forth there for a while.   So it was a good match.   Sorry to the fans I didn't score more in the third period.   I tried to put more points up.   You start to see the end of the tunnel, you being a national champion, you slow down a bit.

Q.   About that No. 13 seed.   I know it was kind of stuck in your craw a little bit before the tournament.   What do you have to say about it now?
CODY BREWER:   13 to No. 1.   That's all that matters now.   Like Coach Cody talks about all season, the only seed that matters is that NCAA Tournament, whether I would have lost or I would have won I was top two in the country.   Now I can say I'm top one in the country.   But, yeah, I had a chip on my shoulder coming in, I think for next year I need that chip again, hopefully not being the 13th seed, but if I'm back to No. 1 I need to have that same mentality going into every match that I have something to prove.

Q.   History will show that you were a 13th seed.   What should you have been seeded?
CODY BREWER:   I don't know.   That's not for me to judge.   I would have‑‑ maybe with the way my record was, maybe second seed, because I was the one who had one loss, but I also didn't wrestle for part of the season because of an injury.   I agree I think at lowest I thought at first I would be maybe fifth or sixth, but coming in I saw 13.   I thought, well, you gotta win five.   That's all that matters, no matter what opponent it was.   I had to put five together.

Q.   Five straight takedowns.   Now, usually when you have that match close, but it really showed some early dominance.   Talk about the ability to get your shots and to finish the positions in those takedowns. 
CODY BREWER:   I was really trying to work off what Coach Lightner says to us a lot that, put my snaps together and get my snaps to my shots.   And he gives the analogy like baseball.   If you're a pitcher you're not going to throw a fastball all the time.   You're going to change them up and throw a curveball and throw other pitches.   That's what I try to relate wrestling to is throwing different pitches at everybody.   Not seeing something coming right off the bat.   Working different setups, different shots, and I think I got a couple of different shots in there which was good to keep him on edge of what I was going to shoot next.

Q.   Did you ever play baseball?   Were you ever a pitcher?
CODY BREWER:   Absolutely not.   Wrestling is the only thing I'm good at. (Laughter)
Q.I didn't know where the analogy came from.   When you were wrestling, winning four state titles at Oak Park.   Did you imagine this moment back then?
CODY BREWER:   Ever since I was a little kid I've been watching NCAAs.   I told Coach Cody right before I stepped out there:   I've been dreaming about this since I was a little kid watching these guys, and I said I was going to be on the stage to prove something.   And I finally got on the stage.   I had to go out there and prove something.   And Coach Cody and Coach Lightner and all the coaches ‑‑ Coach Maple and Coach Howe ‑‑ they've all stuck by me ‑‑ you're the best.   You gotta believe it.   And finally this tournament was me finally believing how good I really am.   Because before I've had doubts in tournaments and duals and whatever it was, but the biggest stage in the country, I was above everybody, which was awesome for me for my confidence for next year.   I felt we've got another year of this and hopefully it turns out as good.   That's the goal now is to get back and take some time off and get right back to it.

Q.   This is not Kansas City.   It's Missouri.   Is it fitting it happened in this state to you?
CODY BREWER:   That's awesome.   St. Louis, Kansas City, wherever it was, Columbia, it didn't matter.   It's awesome to come back home to where I'm familiar with.   I think St. Louis is the best place to have the tournament.   I think it was great.   A lot of my family came down, my brothers, my mother, everybody was down here for the big tournament.   So it was great to have family here.

Q.   What's next for you?   Are you going to go to World Team Trials, going to go do the freestyle Greco‑Roman stuff?
CODY BREWER:   We'll see.   My teammate, Kendric Maple, is going to wrestle in that.   I might try to.   It just depends on where we're at and what Coach Cody wants me to do, lifting program‑wise and what comes next or whatever.   But it's all about timing, and no rushing anything and just taking it to go as if I want to wrestle in that if I feel confident I can compete and win in that then I'll try.   But my teammate will be in the same weight class I am.   He's pretty good.   I don't know about that.
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT