NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIP
March 20, 2015
Cody Brewer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Our first 133‑pound finalist, Cody Brewer of Oklahoma.   Cody, an opening statement. 
CODY BREWER:   Yeah, I just knew if I put the pressure up and I gave up the take down early there, he was a good starter and I was a little nervous coming out.   In big matches like that you have to rise to the occasion and step up a little in those bigger matches.   He's a veteran guy and he knew that too.   I knew I had to wrestle the whole match and the more points I could score, the better I would be.

Q.   You dominated this field so far as a 13 seed.   A lot of people did not expect to get a 13 seed.   Was 13 lucky for you? 
CODY BREWER:   Yeah, I guess so, as long as I was in the bracket I was good with whatever seed I had.   Coach Cody talks about it all the time.   As long as you get in there, you're good.   You get a chance‑‑ when you get a chance to get in there in those big matches and get in the tournament. 
13 seed was probably not what I was looking for, but it turned out to be good.   Now I'm in the top two now.

Q.   You've been making it look so easy.   Why do you feel like you're peaking right now at this tournament and just dominating the way you are? 
CODY BREWER:   I think just my preparation and sticking to what the coaches are saying, Coach Cody and Coach Lightner.   Keeping my head in the game and just trying to stay focused when I'm out there.   It's no different than any other tournament.   I know a lot of big programs out there, the Penn States, Ohio States, all of those wrestling in the Big Ten.   But I think the Big 12 was a good preparation for this tournament.

Q.   Did it surprise you so much that you're scoring all these points and getting people on their back, putting them in danger, getting ahead?   People tend to tighten up and slow it down but you've been able to open it up. 
CODY BREWER:   Yeah, my goal every match no matter what it is is to try to score double digits in all my matches no matter who it's against or anything like that.   I just know the double digits are big for me and I usually win those matches.

Q.   How much credit did the Oak Park North men deserve for their success? 
CODY BREWER:   All of it.   I would say probably my brother first off.   He was my coach in high school.   And I love being in the state of Missouri.   This is awesome for me.   And to be in the finals in a great tournament like this is big.

Q.   Speaking of which, this was supposed to be the University of Missouri's tournament.   You as a native of Missouri, can you talk about that? 
CODY BREWER:   Yeah, it's good to be back in Missouri.   It's good to be back with my roots.   We're all from Kansas City.   It's good to be back here.   I appreciate it.   This is probably the best place to have it, in St. Louis, at the national tournament. 
But, yeah, I haven't really looked into it too much about where I am and just thinking about that, just trying to keep my focus, I guess.

Q.   You really changed momentum there with that five‑pointer at the end of the first period.   Did you consider that more of a changer or that first takedown that you got that countered his first takedown? 
CODY BREWER:   I think it was the five‑point at the end.   I kind of drove through that shot.   I had a good sprawl and had to get up into him and finish strong because he's good defensively. 
So I knew if I got up strong, he'd end up going on his back, and I wasn't going to let him up once he was there.   Because he's a tough wrestler, and I knew if I had kept him in the match it would have been tougher for me down the road.

Q.   Could you talk about your coaches and your other partners that have helped you out.   You've obviously peaked at the right time.   It never happens in a vacuum.   Talk about the people that put you in position to wrestle so well? 
CODY BREWER:   Yeah, Coach Cody and Coach Lightner are our main coaches, I guess.   But they do so much for me that I can't thank them enough.   This is my thank you to them of putting OU kind of back out there on the map. 
I know Andrew Howe got to the finals last year too.   It's just trying to get us back out there.   But one of my main training partners would be Kendric Maple, a national champ, three‑time All‑American. 
So it's good to have those partners and guys on our team too.   You know, we had five guys in the tournament and it didn't turn out the way we wanted it to.   I'm fighting for all of those guys.   Obviously, the one senior that we had didn't achieve his goals, I'm fighting for him now. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT