INFINITI PRO SERIES: HOMESTEAD MIAMI 100
March 6, 2005
Mishael Abbott
Jaime Camara
Travis Gregg
Jon Herb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JAIME CAMARA:  Travis was very fast from the beginning till the end of the race.  I was trying to work on a best line to make a move on him on the last three laps.  His car was good on all the lines, you know, and our cars are pretty much the same.  I tried to force him down and maybe the low line was not good for him, but it was good for him.  He was fast.  I couldn't make the move.  I tried, but I couldn't.   
 
JON HERB:  I think this is about what we expected, at least out here.  I mean, obviously the Schmidt team has been strong, has a history of winning races and championships.  That's the team to beat out here.  Finishing behind them is a good start.  But, you know, we're not I think going to sit and be happy with that.  It's time to move on and try and work on the next one.  A good start for us.  Obviously, we didn't have the speed those guys had.  We're going to have to go back and work on it so we can come back and deserve it next time we get back up there.   
 
MISHAEL ABBOTT:  My first race was extremely exciting.  Going into turn one, being up front with all the cars out there.  The team was great.  We've got a little bit of work to do running in some traffic.  Being close to home is great.  We accomplished our goal, which was to finish all the laps out there.  So we're really happy.   
 
TRAVIS GREGG:  I was trying to protect, you know, the bottom line.  Jaime was quicker on top, I'd let him go around.  We worked together the whole race to develop a slight lead, you know, try to break ourselves away from the pack, and it worked.  The last three laps, that's best man for himself.   
 

Q.  Last year you had kind of a similar start at Kentucky, started up front, and you just didn't take the win.  Did any of that enter your mind today?  
 
TRAVIS GREGG:  Well, that was my first race also, and I had a little bit more experience with me today on the track.  I think that's what, you know, helped me out today.  So I was just focused on what I was doing to get the job done.   
 

Q.  This is obviously a great start for the season, especially with you and your teammate running so strong and dominant the whole day.  What can we expect from Sam Schmidt Motorsports this year?  
 
TRAVIS GREGG:  You'll expect to see us up front, I'm sure of that.  You know, we have a great team.  It's exciting with Lucas Oil joining on board, to have them a part of it.  I'm real excited.   
 
TRAVIS GREGG:  Thank you.   
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT