OKLAHOMA CITY THUNDER MEDIA CONFERENCE
April 28, 2018
Kyle Singler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What was this year like for you?
KYLE SINGLER: A little dry, a little dry year for me.  In many ways, I got better as a basketball player.
Q. What do you mean dry?
KYLE SINGLER: Didn't get any sweat in really, wasn't out there on the court.  I thought the group was great.  I loved being a part of this team.  The chemistry was -- from where it was in the beginning of the year to the end, definitely you could see growth, and that was a good highlight of the year.
Q. However much you enjoyed being around the group, is it hard not to play?  Do you want to be in a situation where you can play more?
KYLE SINGLER: Absolutely.  The whole idea is to get out on the court and compete, to play the game, to be able to put your work in and go against someone else that's doing the same thing.  This summer I've got to get better and find a way to get on the court.
Q. I see you going out at three on three and the competitive juices there.  How much of that work that you get in keeps you sharp and keeps you prepared?
KYLE SINGLER: A lot of the pickup that we do during practices and shootarounds, we got a ton of it in at the end of the year, but it helps out a ton.  It really for the most part is the best simulation to game situation stuff.  We've got a good group this year of playing pickup, and definitely we got better as individuals throughout it.  It just -- yeah, whenever you can get in the mix with that stuff, it does kind of break up the not playing and not being able to get out on the court.  Breaks that up quite well.
Q. You were with the two-way guys in Daniel and PJ.  Anything stand out to you about their games and what their strengths might be on the floor?
KYLE SINGLER: Yeah, Daniel is a great player.  He's going to be a good guard, kind of dynamic and quick.  PJ is going to be really good, too.  He's a bigger guard, can really drive the ball really well, and he'll improve his jumper.  But I think his greatest strength is to kind of get by the initial defense and kind of create.  He's a good athlete.
Q. What's this summer look like for you?
KYLE SINGLER: I have a couple things, like I have a basketball camp coming up which I'm able to go to and a couple weddings, and then summer workouts, pickup.
Q. Are you working out here, doing it in Oregon?
KYLE SINGLER: LA.  Yeah, I'm going to be out in LA, working out, playing pickup.  It seems to be like the place to be for a basketball player, so just makes sense to be in the mix.  Be around basketball and be all right.
Q. Any new holistic treatments or training regimens in your life?
KYLE SINGLER: Nothing, no oils or herbs.
Q. Are you on the search?
KYLE SINGLER: Definitely not against anything.  Definitely like the floating I'm still doing -- everyone is coming up with something new it seems like these days.  But it's something I'm going to really focus on is just stretching.  Stretching, I've found that to be a big help with just how I felt after playing and working out throughout the year, with practicing.  Maybe I can find someone that's a guru in stretching.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT