OKLAHOMA CITY THUNDER MEDIA CONFERENCE
April 26, 2017
Kyle Singler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What are the plans in the off-season for you?  
KYLE SINGLER: Nothing planned right now.  My brother is getting married, so I have a wedding to go to.   
 Q.  Will you attack your kind of off-season work regimen the same way as years past, or any particular focus for you on what you'll work on in your game?  
KYLE SINGLER: It'll evolve.  I'll try to think of some new things to try and to put into my like program, like a summer program.  But the main thing is just spending time in the gym, the weight room, trying to refine basketball skills and get stronger and faster.   
 Q.  No one knew what this season would bring with a new cast of characters in this building.  What were your expectations, and how did what happened mesh or not mesh with what you thought this season could be?  
KYLE SINGLER: Coming into the basketball year, always your expectations and ideas of the season are always positive and striving to obtain and reach certain goals.  I thought we did most of that this year.  There are obviously things that we wanted to accomplish and achieve that we didn't.  Under that umbrella, it's a disappointment, but I'm more than confident and sure that we did things this year that we're proud and happy about.   
 Q.  Are you the best man in your brother's wedding?  
KYLE SINGLER: I am, but he's not having any like groomsmen or best men.  It's a very small wedding.  I'll say something, but I don't have to do the best man thing, which is great.  Whatever that is.  I've never had to be the best man.   
 Q.  Have you put a lot of thought into what you're going to say?  
KYLE SINGLER: No.  I mean, really, whenever -- I mean, my brother means a lot to me, and I'm sure whatever I have to say will come out.  I'm super proud of him and kind of like the jump he's making is a great one because I know the girl that he's marrying, and I know the man that she's marrying, so I'm really happy for them.   
 Q.  Once you've been here, you've had this kind of contract that people talk about behind the scenes, and I know guys don't like to talk about the whole idea of being pressured to live up to expectations or anything like that, but how do you deal with the chatter or the things that go on around you when your production may not amount to the money that's going on there?  How do you live up to that, or how do you deal with that?  
KYLE SINGLER: I don't ever face myself in the mirror saying, oh, since I make a certain amount of money, I should be productive in this way.  I've worked my entire life to get to the point of where I am today, and there's nothing more satisfying and gratifying than knowing that you're putting the time into your craft, into something that you love, and the growth that you can see within yourself.  I mean, of course like I want to do the best that I can, and with that being said, I have a whole work to look at, and it's not just what I've done in the past, it's what I'm going to do in the future, as well.   
 Q.  You've got kind of like an alternative workout method for the most part.  Is there anything else that you're going to add this off-season or next year that you're looking into, anything like that?  
KYLE SINGLER: Alternatively, probably not.  I might work out with my brother a little bit more.  We've done it in the past.  But I think this year, just being around him, playing a lot more five on five I think is what I'm going to probably focus on more.  I love the flow.  I love meditation, yoga, anything that falls under kind of getting the mind and body syncing is kind of always a positive for me.   
 Q.  People around the league have termed this the season of Westbrook, talking about how amazing all the things that he's done.  You were obviously there for a lot of those things.  What stands out to you about this season in terms of Russell?  
KYLE SINGLER: Whenever you're talking about Russ, you've got to talk about the group because they go hand in hand.  Being around Russell and being around the team has always been amazing.  You've seen what he's done on the court, but the things that happen off the court are in many ways just as impressive.  Like Russell could in many ways alienate himself from the group, but he never does.  Whenever we're out to dinner, he's with us, and Russell is a better person off the court than he is on the court.  That's a great thing that Russell has.   
 Q.  Is that something you don't know until you're a teammate of Russell?  
KYLE SINGLER: Well, it's fitting for anything in life.  You don't really know anyone until you can really ask questions, hang out with them on a daily basis.  So yeah, there's another side of everyone, and Russell kind of fits that same mold.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT