OKLAHOMA CITY THUNDER MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 23, 2016
Kyle Singler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How do you think that your game has improved since last year?
KYLE SINGLER: Spent a lot of time in the gym this summer building skill.  You know, learning how to move better.  So hopefully my defense is on another level.  And just you know, working on my shooting.  Body, working on my body.
So just everything.  There's not really one aspect of my game I really wanted to improve on.  But the thing I really wanted to see growth in was my body movement, being able to be out on the court and defend multiple positions.
Q. Last season was a down year for you.  Have you approached this season any differently than last year or do you think it was a fluke-ish year?  How do you justify last year to yourself?
KYLE SINGLER: I don't need to justify it.  I am approaching it different.  I can learn a lot from last year, so my game routine will change.  How I approach my summer was different.  You know, I want to help out this team as much as possible, so I'm constantly trying to think of new ways to do that.
Q. What are the impressions that you have on Victor?
KYLE SINGLER: Expectations for him?
Q. Impressions.
KYLE SINGLER: Oh, impressions.  Victor is a great guy.  Hard worker, very competitive.  You know, he wants the best for the team, which is a great characteristic.  He'll be great for this team.  He'll fit in really well, and I think he'll be great.
Q. You said you're approaching this year a little bit differently.  What are you doing differently and what are the adjustments?
KYLE SINGLER: Well, just how I approach each thing -- my training.  Can't really get into everything, but how I spend my time on the court, my preparation will change.  I'll spend more time in the weight room.  Before games my routine will be different.  You know, I'll spend time away from the game.  I'll be doing a lot of float-tanking, meditation, clearing my mind.  Just trying to get myself to be able to perform to the best of my ability.
Q. You changed to No. 15, gave 5 to Dipo getting No. 5?  Why No.  15?
KYLE SINGLER: I'm a nice guy.  I decided to give it up, yeah.  And he wanted it.
Q. You said float tanking and meditation?  What is float tanking?
KYLE SINGLER: Float tank is -- I don't necessarily think it's a new thing, but a lot of people are getting into it.  It's a tank you get in, close it.  There's different styles of tanks.  It's mainly for meditation to sensory clearing.  It's also filled with salt, too.  So you're in maybe a foot of water.  It's good for your skin and muscles.  It's just a different way to relax.  Different than a massage or stuff like that.  There's different ways to float, as well.
Q. So last season, mentally, did you feel off or did you feel a need for this meditation, and why is that going to be a factor in your improvements this season?
KYLE SINGLER: For sure, yeah, I think last year, there were moments where I felt overwhelmed, stressed out, not really doing the things that I wanted to do.  So mentally I needed to get to a different place, just different space.
And did some research, found this float tank and I did a lot during the summer and I really noticed a difference, felt different.  So I continued to do it, and we'll see how it goes.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT