U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN
December 11, 2020
Sarah Schmelzel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. Tell me about your play today.  How did you feel about it?
SARAH SCHMELZEL:   Yeah, it was good was.  It was really steady.  I think over the last few days I've been good at just hitting greens and managing my game really well, giving myself a look even if it is 40, 50 feet, and my speed has been great.
I had a few good up and downs on the front nine, which is my back to keep it all going, and stole one a little bit on 6, so it was nice.
Q. Weather factor at all?  Earlier start?  How did you prepare?
SARAH SCHMELZEL:   I like playing early, so it was kind of nice to have the earlier start.  No, I don't think the weather so much.  We kind of got a little wind on that other side, which I feel like brings a little more trouble into play, but then you can take advantage of some holes when it was downwind, whereas in the practice rounds it was the opposite.
Made those holes a little bit easier.  Wasn't too bad.  Just a little bit of gusty wind made you think a little bit harder.
Q. This is your second experience at the U.S. Women's Open.  Tell me about how it's different so far?
SARAH SCHMELZEL:   Definitely, I -- last year at my first one it was definitely a pinch-me kind of moment.  I realized how big of a deal it was.  It was a huge goal to ever get to a U.S. Open, so it was really cool.  I was a little bit more deer in the headlights last year.
I think this year I've maybe just almost like dumbed it done a little bit more to it's just another golf tournament and been a little bit more calm and managed a little bit better, like I said, with hitting greens and just two-putting where you can and maybe stealing one ever so often.
I think that's kind of the name of the U.S. Open.  So I think I'm just better at that this year than I was last year.
Q. Next few days it's one course.  It's only Cypress.  How do you approach that?
SARAH SCHMELZEL:   I'm excited.  I love Cypress.  I love both of them.  They're great.  But I'm really pumped to get back over there.  I didn't make the cut last year, so I'm really excited to play this weekend and just see what can happen.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT