ROLAND GARROS
May 23, 2016
Lukas Rosol
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. WAWRINKA/L. Rosol
4-6, 6-1, 3-6, 6-3, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. (Off microphone.)
LUKAS ROSOL: It was a tough match.  I had a chance in the fourth set two break points to break his serve and to feel more comfortable on the court after, but I didn't make it.  It was changing that time, and then he start to play better.
So fourth set, I think was 3-All, I had break points to be 4-3-up with break, I didn't make it, and this one was the deciding moment.
Q. How was your impression of Wawrinka?  You played him like three days ago in Geneva.  Did he play about the same level?  Because the conditions were totally different.
LUKAS ROSOL: Uh-huh.  These conditions were better for me a little bit.  I guess I like these conditions, you know, a little bit cold, windy.  The weather, when it's tough conditions, it's good for me.
Well, I had my chances today.  Of course I wanted to have a payback, you know, after Geneva.  Well, I played good match, and I hope I can continue this good level for next tournament and looking forward to play, to stay healthy and have good matches like this.
Q. Can you describe the game of Stan, the good side and the bad side maybe?
LUKAS ROSOL: I really didn't focus on Stan so much.  I focused on my game and my tactic.  I tried to give him my game, then focus on his weapons.  Of course, his weapon is backhand.  He was playing pretty consistent today, and, well, yeah.  He was better today, I have to say.
Q. You once had famous upset of Rafa in Wimbledon.  Today on the court did you feel similar?  Did you feel that I can do it, that I can make this big upset?
LUKAS ROSOL: I didn't think about the Rafa match in Wimbledon.  It's totally different.  I just focus for today, you know, and just try to focus on the tactic today, which was written from my coach.  Tried to do whatever I could, you know, today.
But I had my chances, as I said, and I didn't think about the previous matches on Centre Court or somewhere else.  I was with my head.  As you saw, I was sitting, when it was 5-3, I thought it was 6-4, I totally focused on the match, so I forgot the score.
So I didn't think about some other matches at all.
Q. You have played Stan now twice in three days.  What do you think he can do here in Paris, since you must have a good feeling of how he's in form or not?
LUKAS ROSOL: Well, he won last week, so it's good for his confidence, yeah.
He come through this first-round match, which is always tough, you know, and tricky.  He was here not enough time to recover, as was me.
So, well, I think he can do now good.  No, every match is different, you know.  Now tomorrow he has day off, so he will focus for next round.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT