EA SPORTS MAUI INVITATIONAL
November 24, 2013
Mike Montgomery
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  JIMMY DYKES:   Thank you, Coach.   To his left is Mike Montgomery, the head coach of California.   He's been at the Division 1 level as a head coach and in the NBA for over 30 years.   I observed his practice yesterday, he loves to teach the game.   And I don't know if I've had that conversation with him or not, but he's a terrific teacher, and you can tell that it's probably the most important two hours of his day still is working with young people and teaching them the game of basketball.   
He's in his sixth year as head coach of California.   He's had only one losing season in 31 years at the Division 1 level.   He is the ninth winningest head coach, active coach, in Division I basketball right now.   He returns four starters from an NCAA team last year.   They will be one of the teams that will battle all season long for the top of the Pac‑12.   Mike Montgomery.   
COACH MONTGOMERY:   Thank you, Jimmy.   I've been in this tournament a time or two.   One of my least favorite memories was the losing season that Jimmy alluded to where we played Chaminade in the 9:00 o'clock game on Wednesday, which was not the highlight of my college career, I can tell you that was no fun.   I have mentioned that to my team a time or two.   That's not a place, not that Chaminade would be there, because they're awfully good, but that third place, 9:00 o'clock game on Wednesday is not where you want to be.   
We spent this week on the track running 40‑yard dashes, trying to get back on defense to prepare for Arkansas.   Needless to say, we are all undefeated.   I don't know that everybody had quite the rigorous schedule that we had in our first four games at home, but they're games we probably should have won and almost didn't win.   But we have a lot of respect for Mike and the way he plays.   
We know we're up against it.   No way we can simulate the kind of athletes we're going to face in this tournament specifically tomorrow.   So it was a difficult prep trying to get the guys on the bench to be about three steps quicker and about two inches taller and run about five steps quicker than they do.   But we tried.   So it's a great challenge for us.   It's always fun to be here.   It's not quite as far for us to get here, but it's still a pretty good trip.   
We hope we can compete with this field.   The coaches, I know most of them pretty well having been around a lot respect and good friends.   We're excited about being here and hopefully we can compete.   
   
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT