UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 16, 2017
Sean Crawford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Notre Dame - 49, Boston College - 20
SEAN CRAWFORD: We knew what type of team we were.  We knew through winter conditioning, summer conditioning, we had grit and we had perseverance, and we were going to fight hard.  We knew we played a physical team, and we just had to come out fast and match their physicality.
Q. What did it feel like to make those kind of plays you did tonight and with your family being here to watch you?
SEAN CRAWFORD: It felt great, but I just have to thank Coach Elko and his scheme and all the work we did during the week.  Those plays I made, both the interceptions, we went over those plays a number of times throughout the week, and I was in perfect position.  The second one, I didn't do much, I just got to my landmark, played the coverage, and he threw it right to me.  Just blessed, really.  Thankful that this opportunity came with my family here, them making the drive from Cleveland, so it was an awesome experience.
Q. Did you say massive physicality?
SEAN CRAWFORD: Yeah, match their physicality.  Boston College, we knew they were a physical team, and we're a physical team, as well, so we just wanted to come out and try and match it.  We knew they had nothing to lose, they were going to try all their tricks, and second half we made adjustments, and we came out strong.
Q. A long time coming for big plays; it's been a long road for you here the last two, three years.
SEAN CRAWFORD: Yeah, it's been great.  I just have to thank Coach Kelly and the staff, Coach Lyght, all my teammates really.  They're all behind me, and Coach Lyght always tells me just go make a play, go do you.  So it finally came, and like I was pushing for it a little bit in the first and second game, but just relaxed, and it came.  I'm just excited.  Now next week just have to forget about it and go in and work harder and move forward to Michigan State.
Q. Going through two long rehabs, is there ever a point where the doubt comes in as to whether you can get back to the type of player that you were?
SEAN CRAWFORD: No, just because I've been through camp, and I got here through all the great strength training, and like I said before, Coach Balis did a great job, him and his staff built me bigger, faster, stronger, so I'm excited.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT