TOSTITOS FIESTA BOWL: KANSAS STATE v OREGON
December 29, 2012
Kenjon Barner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Tell me about the relationship with Chris. 
KENJON BARNER:   He's a good guy, one of my good friends, always laughing and joking.   Always good to talk to him. 

Q.   Did that catch some of you guys by surprise?
KENJON BARNER:   When you're a freshman, you talk to your guys.   There were times I wanted to leave.   We all talked to each other. 
We all kind of had an idea how he was feeling. 

Q.   What does Marcus bring that is different?
KENJON BARNER:   Speed, extreme speed.   Marcus is one of the faster guys on the team.   The guy can throw the ball.   He's very precise where he throws it.   He's very precise when he throws the ball, very accurate, and he's intelligent. 

Q.   A team in a month, do you think a team can tell what you're going to do?
KENJON BARNER:   Not when you have a genius at the helm of this offense like we do in Coach Kelly.   So unpredictable, such a great mind.   Think he'll do one thing, he'll throw you off and do something completely different.

Q.   What's he like to play for?
KENJON BARNER:   Amazing.   You know he's going to put you in a position to be successful, going to come up with some crazy plays that are going to work.   It's a lot of fun. 

Q.   Talking to Chris, have you talked about how different these two programs are, head coaches on down?
KENJON BARNER:   We haven't talked about it, but I don't think it needs to be said. 
I know it's two completely different things, two completely different coaches and lifestyles. 

Q.   Marcus called it chaos managing the explosiveness of this offense.   You've heard all the numbers, I'm sure.   It takes a lot of synergy for everybody to move that quickly. 
KENJON BARNER:   Everybody has to be on the same page.   When he goes, we go.   It all comes back to us all being on the same page and being able to execute properly.

Q.   Has it been surprising for a freshman to be able to do that?
KENJON BARNER:   Not for us.   We all have seen him since he was a true freshman, how he conducted himself.   So for us, it's no surprise. 

Q.   When you look at things you've been able to do this year, can you describe your season. 
KENJON BARNER:   It's been a lot of fun.   Couldn't be happier about the season that I've had. 

Q.   What is the biggest key for you against this K State defense?
KENJON BARNER:   When it comes to their defense, reading properly.   These guys are very active and play accurately.   They're extremely big, very powerful run stoppers.   They'll change it up. 

Q.   You've been on this stage before.   What do you tell the younger guys about how to prepare for this?
KENJON BARNER:   Just don't get caught up in the lights.   Stay focused.   There's so much going on bowl week.   Definitely the energy is different, stuff like that.   You have to constantly remind yourself of what you're here for. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
KENJON BARNER:   To myself, no.   Maybe to everybody else.   I'm very confident within myself.   I don't need validation from anybody to know or to feel a certain way about me. 
To myself, I didn't prove anything to me.   I know what God blessed me with the talents to do. 

Q.   Is this how you saw the year going?
KENJON BARNER:   Yeah, kind of (laughter).   To be completely honest, I wrote down some goals and I literally hit or have been close to every single one of them dating back to July 1st. 

Q.   Can you share what those are? 
KENJON BARNER:   Touchdowns, 25 touchdowns.   I wanted almost 2,000 yards.   I'm at 1600.   I wanted to be an All‑American.   I wanted to win the Doak Walker.   Be up for the Heisman. 
To say that my year was a surprise to me, no. 

Q.   (Question regarding not playing half the season.) 
KENJON BARNER:   As a player, you want to play.   I wish I would have been able to play.   Coaches know what they're doing.   That's why I'm not a coach. 

Q.   What is it like being back?
KENJON BARNER:   It's fun.   We're used to the territory.   We've been here before.   We know what to expect. 

Q.   What does Mark mean to you as an offensive leader?
KENJON BARNER:   Kind of the Ying and Yang.   Coach Kelly is the Ying, he's the Yank.   Coach is going to get it out of you however he can get it out of you.   Coach Helfrich is going to get it out of you as well, but differently.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT