U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 12, 2009
Jean Reynolds
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. I'm sure the day didn't quite turn out the way you wanted, but still quite a week for you. Just reflect on it overall.   
 JEAN REYNOLDS: Just an outstanding week. You know, not real happy with the way I played today. Didn't hit the ball very good, but then again, I hung in there all week and never gave up today.  
 I'm just pleased with the whole week; I really am. It was just incredible.  
  
  Q. Did you have any hint that something like this was in the offing today?   
 JEAN REYNOLDS: That?   
  
  Q. This kind of day, that it was going to be this kind of day for you? Was there any hint?  
 JEAN REYNOLDS: No. I mean, I hit the ball really well on the range this morning and just got out there and made a bogey on 2, and from then on started pressing again.   
 When I start doing that, it kind of throws my rhythm off, and then from there it was just hard for me to get back on track.   
 I was pressing with my putting, but overall I'm not disappointed at all.   
  
  Q. Things at 11, 12, 13, that stretch kind of knocked you out of it for good.   
 JEAN REYNOLDS: Right.  
  
  Q. Anything particular happen on those holes?  
 JEAN REYNOLDS: You know, 11, I don't know what -- I hit a good 4-iron there and came up well short. I don't -- I'm still a little confused there.  
 And then on 12, I just pulled my third shot from 115. I was pulling -- I was just pulling a lot of my iron shots today and three-putted, which is throwing away shots. 13, I hit a terrible second shot up. I yanked that into the creek and made a good bogey there.  
 I think after that, bogey on 11, that just kind of threw me and it was hard for me to get back on track after that.  
  
  Q. You seem to have become a real fan favorite this week. That must have made you feel good?  
 JEAN REYNOLDS: It really did. Everyone here has been outstanding. USGA, I love their events. They always put on just an incredible show, and the fans here were amazing.   
 Everyone has been so nice to me all week. I just truly appreciate it. It's made the week more special.  
  
  Q. Where do you go from here?  
 JEAN REYNOLDS: I'm taking a day off tomorrow, and then I've got to start up again in Connecticut on the Duramed Tour. I have six tournaments in a row there.   
 Hopefully I can pull out my third win on Tour and take an early season break. We'll just see what happens and go from there. I'll remember this week forever.   
  
  Q. What's the No. 1 lesson you take away from here?  
 JEAN REYNOLDS: Don't go at pins on Sundays. I went at a couple pins today and just made stupid bogeys there, and I mean, you just can't do that.   
 You just have to go middle of the green and take your two-putt and get out of there. If you make a good birdie there, then you've done a good day's work, but don't fire at flags.   
  
  Q. Can you tell us which holes?  
 JEAN REYNOLDS: I'm thinking of 8. I lucked out on 17. I kind of pulled that shot and ended up making birdie there, but otherwise it would have been in the bunker. I mean, towards the back 9 I just started going at everything, and you just can't really do that.   
 That was probably my stumble, for sure.   
  
  Q. You pulled out the driver on No. 10, and I know that's about your distance. What were you thinking on that?  
 JEAN REYNOLDS: Yeah, I don't know what I was thinking. I should have just hit probably a 4-iron and put it in the fairway, but I was pressing again, and so I just kind of felt like I needed to hit driver. And I hit driver and didn't hit it the way I wanted to and just ended up in a bad spot.  
 I couldn't really make birdie from there and made a good par and went on my way.   
  
  Q. Did you have a good night's sleep last night? Did you sleep well last night?   
 JEAN REYNOLDS: I did, I did. And I mean, like I said, I hit the ball really good this morning on the range, and I mean, I felt good teeing off this morning.   
 And like I said, I bogeyed 2 and from then on I missed an easy birdie putt on 3, and from there, I just started pressing. It just kind of threw my rhythm off a little bit.   
  
  Q. Do you think you proved something there for petite golfers? You certainly are not a big woman but you play very nicely.   
 JEAN REYNOLDS: Thank you very much.   
 Yeah, I mean, anyone can play this game. You've just got to be smart about it, and size really doesn't matter in golf, you know. It's just kind of -- you take it and go with it.   
 You tee it up like everybody else and hit fairways like everybody else and hit greens like everybody else and go from there.  
  
  Q. Would you like to come back to this golf course?  
 JEAN REYNOLDS: Absolutely.   
  
  Q. Do you think it suits your game? What do you like most about it?  
 JEAN REYNOLDS: Just -- I love the back 9 here. I think -- I love the way it looks. Some of the holes on it are just incredible, and it's just fun, you know.   
 I mean, I love the front 9, as well, but I was really -- when I made the turn, I was really excited about getting on the back 9 and trying to make something happen, and unfortunately I just -- I couldn't pull through, so...   
  
  Q. Do these players, your fellow competitors on the Duramed FUTURES Tour, need to be worried next week? Do you have something to settle?  
 JEAN REYNOLDS: I would definitely like to win this weekend so I could take a little bit of a break and maybe head home for a couple weeks and then start up again in mid-August or something, but we'll just see what happens. And I'm just, you know, looking forward to ending the season on a good note.  
  
  Q. How many weeks in a row have you played?  
 JEAN REYNOLDS: Including this week, it will be seven. It's a lot of golf.   
  
  Q. It will be 13 in a row if you play all the ones upcoming?  
 JEAN REYNOLDS: Well, no, no, no. Starting with this week, after this tournament, I've got six FUTURES events back to back, so it will be seven. And then we've got a break, and then I've got one more left in the season.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT