U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 11, 2009
Jean Reynolds
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   RHONDA GLENN: Ladies and gentlemen, we have Jean Reynolds and her entire family here. 
 JEAN REYNOLDS: Hey, guys.
 RHONDA GLENN: And we welcome them all. She finished the round today with a 74. She is in at 2-over par which is four strokes out of the lead. First, let's go over those last four holes on the Back 9. You had three bogeys out of the last four. You were cruising along in great shape until then, until 15. So just how do you feel about that overall, and then tell us a little bit about your outs on each of those holes. 
 JEAN REYNOLDS: I hung in there pretty good all day. 15, I hit it just over the green and had a pretty terrible first putt and left myself a not-so-easy second putt, ended up three-putting there. 
 Had a good birdie chance on 16, and I kind of ran by and hit my putts -- I didn't have good speed with my putts today really. 
 17, I made a bad swing there and pulled a 5-iron and it plugged in the bunker, and that was just kind of an impossible up-and-down there and got it out of the bunker and two-putted. 
 And then 18, another bad swing for my second shot and ended up making bogey there, so didn't want to finish bogey bogey, but still happy with where I stand.
 RHONDA GLENN: You haven't had many of those bad swings earlier in the championship. Is there any explanation for why they came about today? Was it the pressure, you think, or the weather conditions? 
 JEAN REYNOLDS: You know, I think it was more I was just kind of pressing. 
 After the bogey on 15, I was really wanting to get that back, and I ran my putt by on 16. And then, you know, 17 I made kind of a guided swing there and ended up pulling it. You know, I was trying to get it close to the pin on that hole, which is not very easy, and then 18 I did the same thing on my second shot, so just more pressing than anything.
 RHONDA GLENN: Okay. Questions? 

 Q. Jean, how tough will it be for you to forget those shots tonight and wake up tomorrow like nothing happened and come out and try to win a championship?
 JEAN REYNOLDS: I don't think it'll be very difficult. I've been hitting the ball really good all week, and I mean really, those two swings cost me two shots, so in 54 holes, I mean, I'm not -- that was my own fault, so I'm not disappointed with ball striking at all. 

 Q. Jean, is left your normal miss?
 JEAN REYNOLDS: Typically, yeah. Just from just normal kind of guiding the ball is what I tend to do if I get nervous or under the gun kind of, and left is usually where it'll go. 
 RHONDA GLENN: Did you feel nervous at all today? 
 JEAN REYNOLDS: First tee shot, yeah. It was a good nervousness, though. Got off the tee good there, and after that, I was ready to go. And Paulie kept me calm all day, so we had a good vibe going on out there, and up until 15, and kind of stumbled there, so...
 RHONDA GLENN: Did you feel nervous on 15? Did you realize how close you were? 
 JEAN REYNOLDS: Yeah. I mean, I looked at the leaderboard all day today, and I just hit a really bad first putt there. That was not an easy putt. It could have ended up on the front of the green or it could have ended up five feet short, which is what I did. 
 But I wasn't too disappointed. You know I had two three-putts today, I think, and those are wasted shots, and so that's what I'm more disappointed about than anything is three-putting. 
 RHONDA GLENN: No. 3 and 15. It only counts as two on the green, but it's actually three from the fringe.

 Q. Jean, what experiences will you fall back on tomorrow four shots back?
 JEAN REYNOLDS: Experiences? Just the good shots that I've hit all week. I've been striking the ball really good. I'm driving the ball awesome, hitting a lot of fairways, and I've had a lot of birdie chances in the past three days. So if I can -- my speed on the first day was really good. If I could just get the speed down a little better tomorrow, I think it could be a good day. 

 Q. As far as in your previous wins, I know you've got two wins on the Duramed FUTURES Tour this year. Any experience on that coming back, coming from behind to win there or anything?
 JEAN REYNOLDS: Just kind of -- I know this is a cliche, but you just kinda gotta go out and play one shot at a time. I'm having a blast here this week, so I'm going to do the same thing tomorrow. I just don't feel like I've got anything to lose. I've hung in there all week, so I'm just going to go out there and see what happens. 

 Q. You might have just answered my question, but my question was going to be you don't have a lot of LPGA experience. You didn't play in college. Your story, it sounds like you shouldn't be here, but what's your attitude towards that thinking?
 JEAN REYNOLDS: Well, there's just different roads to get here. I mean you don't have to spend four years of grueling practice and grueling over putts to end up here. 
 I mean I took a year and a half off of competitive golf, and I mean, it's just, you kind of come out with a desire to win again, and that was kind of for me why I'm back into it. I just missed competition, and so -- but as far as not having that college experience or any of that, I don't think that's held me back at all.

 Q. How old were you when you took the year and a half off?
 JEAN REYNOLDS: I'm 24, and sophomore year, which was, '04, '05. 

 Q. No tournaments?
 JEAN REYNOLDS: No tournaments. None.
 RHONDA GLENN: So you would have been 19? 
 JEAN REYNOLDS: 19. Yeah. 

 Q. Jean, can you talk a little bit about Sunday? You're on the Duramed FUTURES Tour, you're a really tough Sunday player, and I'm not sure about your stats, but I don't think you've had a lot of bogeys on Sundays. Can you talk a little bit about that day of the week?
 JEAN REYNOLDS: I mean I just -- I love being in the hunt on Sunday. I just enjoy having the chance to win, and I go out there and I have fun doing it, and you know, if I stumble, I try not to let it get to me.
 And so I just -- like I said, I enjoy being in the hunt, coming down the Back 9 on Sunday. It's a lot of fun. 
 RHONDA GLENN: And that question we always have to ask, what would it mean to you to win the Women's Open? 
 JEAN REYNOLDS: It would just be absolutely incredible. It might take me a lifetime for it to sink in, but it would be just incredible. 

 Q. Do you have any idea what you feel you might have to shoot tomorrow in order to win? What will you have to score?
 JEAN REYNOLDS: Maybe -- I don't know. I mean I'd like to shoot under par tomorrow and just see where that puts me. Even, 1 or 2-under. But you just don't ever know, especially on Sunday in a U.S. Open. It should be pretty exciting. So I just -- I'm looking forward to it, definitely. 

 Q. Jean, during that year, year and a half when you didn't play competition, did you play golf at all or did you just put the clubs away completely?
 JEAN REYNOLDS: I played a little bit, maybe two, three times a week maybe. But if there was something going on in the college world, I was probably doing it. So it just -- I didn't -- after freshman year and that practice regimen, I just knew it wasn't for me and I just wanted to take some time off. I had a really good AM record and Junior record, and at that time, I was just wanting to experience the college scene. 
 RHONDA GLENN: Questions? All right, Jean. Thank you so much. Good luck to you tomorrow. 
 JEAN REYNOLDS: Thank you all. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT