U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 9, 2009
Jean Reynolds
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JEAN REYNOLDS: Yeah. I've got my cheat sheet here. Started out, birdied the first hole, kind of got my rhythm going. I hit three really good shots on 1, so that got me kind of going, and made a good par save on 2. And from there I hit seven fairways and 13 greens and had 29 putts. And had a lot of birdie chances on the back side, so it was an overall pretty solid day.

 Q. What was the save at 2? What did you have to DO?
 JEAN REYNOLDS: Drove it in the right fairway bunker, I had a good lie. I was far enough back and hit 7-wood back to about 45 yards and got up-and-down from there. To about four feet, yeah.

 Q. Last couple weeks, month maybe you've been doing good?
 JEAN REYNOLDS: Yeah. Past month I was playing on Futures, had a lot of under-par rounds, so this is kind of -- I came out here expecting to have a good round and play solid, so this is a nice feeling, shoot 2-under on the first round of the Open.

 Q. Came in here off of a win. 
 JEAN REYNOLDS: Right.

 Q. So is it safe to say that that carried over, even though it's a bigger tournament, bigger golf course. 
 JEAN REYNOLDS: Right.

 Q. Does the feeling of that change?
 JEAN REYNOLDS: It's just a confidence, it's a huge confidence booster coming in here. And I don't know, wins, they kind of jolt you out there and just make things a little bit easier to -- you know you can fire at some pins when normally you'd be scared to. 
 I mean it's a different feeling, but it's definitely a huge confidence builder. 

 Q. Can you tell us the story? 
 JEAN REYNOLDS: It was exempt for local, and then went to Chicago. I think I was tied seventh there. 75, 70 were scores, I think. And then here I am.

 Q. It was a bit of scrapping that you had to do? 
 JEAN REYNOLDS: In the qualifying? No. It was a pretty par, par, par kind of deal, maybe make a birdie and then get out of there.

 Q. What are your first impressions of this course?
 JEAN REYNOLDS: It's awesome. The golf course is phenomenal. At the beginning of the week I was hitting it just kind of mediocre, not very good. So I worked on some things last night and then came out here this morning, I was hitting it good and that kind of led out to the golf course. 

 Q. Take the last result, obviously that was disappointing. 
 JEAN REYNOLDS: Yeah. I came in here, this year just from playing in Futures. I came in here not thinking about cut. I was thinking more about being in contention. So last year was kind of an eye-opening experience more than anything.

 Q. Can you talk about the birdies like at 18?
 JEAN REYNOLDS: Okay. 8. Let me see if I can remember 8. Oh, hit a drive, had an 8-iron in to about two feet, made that. 12, I holed out from the bunker, green-side bunker on the left, and then --

 Q. What club was that?
 JEAN REYNOLDS: I got 15 yards. And then the next birdie was 14. I'm trying to think of that. What does that hole look like? 14. Dogleg-left. Oh, yeah. Driver. 7-iron to probably 6 feet, kind of left to right, slider, made that.

 Q. What did you do there?
 JEAN REYNOLDS: Pulled my drive into the bunker on the left. You're kind of dead there anyways. I was kind of up on the lip and didn't have much of a shot, came up short, hit it up short and hit the ridge, came back down and two-putted, made a good two-putt there. 

 Q. How far was that?
 JEAN REYNOLDS: 15, 20, maybe 18, 20 feet. 

 Q. Thank you. 
 JEAN REYNOLDS: Thanks, guys. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT