INDIANA UNIVERSITY BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 12, 2019
Damezi Anderson
Jerome Hunter
Trayce Jackson-Davis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









North Alabama-65, Indiana-91
Q. Trayce, first of all for you. The free throws, big improvement. I know you changed that a little bit. How much does that help you being able to hit at this rate?
TRAYCE JACKSON-DAVIS: Really was just coach really put an emphasis on not starting the ball so far down low, but kind of putting it up. Less room for error and it's work pretty with the for me so far.
It was really concentration for me, and I did really well tonight.
Q. Have you shot that well before?
TRAYCE JACKSON-DAVIS: No, no.
Q. Trayce, Coach Miller said after the last game that he just wanted you to be more assertive. Does he say those things to you and is that the kind of message you took to heart?
TRAYCE JACKSON-DAVIS: Most definitely. You always take it to heart as a player. Coach Miller just wants me to be more aggressive on the floor, and I thought my teammates put me in my positions to score and I took advantage of those.
Q. What does it look like for you at the defensive end of the floor in terms of how you want that to manifest itself when you talk about being more aggressive at that end?
TRAYCE JACKSON-DAVIS: Just being able to just guard my guard. So basically not getting beat off the dribble. I know it happened a few times tonight, but I just need to assert myself on the defensive end, especially if I'm going to play the 4 position.
Q. Jerome and Damezi both, if you could. You guys, as wing players, have to take on a lot of responsibility chasing three-point shooters. Second half it seemed like it was a lot better. Was there more of an emphasis in the first ten minutes? Was there more of an emphasis placed on that at halftime?
JEROME HUNTER: Yeah, Coach Miller, he always makes a big emphasis on defense, so when we came out the second half we just tried to focus on more of our defense and making sure they don't get open shots like they did the first half.
Q. Just one follow-up for you, Trayce. Coach talked a lot about challenging you as to be able to guard smaller so that you guys can play big sometimes. Just what's that process been like for you as you start to get into games here?
TRAYCE JACKSON-DAVIS: I mean, the transition, it's been pretty difficult; at the same time, I think Coach Miller believes in me and that I'm athletic enough. I'm just going to try to do my best to guard my guys, I should say.
Q. For Jerome, first half you looked a lot more comfortable with the jump shot. Few went down the line in a row. How much more comfortable are you feeling now a few games in?
JEROME HUNTER: I mean, I'm taking it game by game. I hope each game I start to get more and more comfortable. That's my goal for this season.
Q. Damezi, this is for you. You come out two for three from three. Is your comfort level shooting threes getting a little better as far as not only the shooting them, but shooting them in addition to all the other responsibilities you have?
DAMEZI ANDERSON: Just that one year experience helped me. Every time I step on the floor I'm just comfortable with what I do with my teammates. I'm just comfortable and have confidence in my jump shot.
Q. Damezi, that alley-oop you threw to Trayce was pretty high. Is he one of the easiest guys to throw them to just how long he is?
DAMEZI ANDERSON: Yeah, when you see Trayce, you just got to throw it and he going to go get it. No matter it's on top of the backboard or not, he's just going to go get it.
Q. Damezi, just following up on your progression and comfort level. From my eye it looks like your shot releases a lot quicker and you're shooting more in rhythm. Is that fair to say? Do you agree with that? What else did you think has changed with regard to your jump shot?
DAMEZI ANDERSON: Just a lot of repetition, repetition with it. Just made sure I'm working on it and getting comfortable to how I used to shoot before I even touched here at Indiana. I just had to get my flow back together and my jump shot back together.
Q. For any of the players, forcing 22 turnovers tonight, what kind of energy did that bring and how important was it to be able to turn them over, particularly in the second half?
JEROME HUNTER: I mean, Coach Miller, he really wanted to focus on our defense, so all week we just been practicing defense and just getting better as a team, and it's starting to show on the court. I mean, Coach Miller is just getting us ready for these games and have us playing really good defense for other teams to turn the ball over.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT