INDIANA UNIVERSITY BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 9, 2019
Al Durham
Trayce Jackson-Davis
Race Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Indiana-85, Portland State-71
THE MODERATOR: Questions.
Q. Al, I know Rob is a guy who has been in and out, had something physically going on through the pre-season. I think seven points, seven assists this afternoon, personal battle with one of his defensive covers. How important is he for this team in terms of setting the attitude?
AL DURHAM: He's really important. You see what happened once he got on the defender. He got a stop, he brought energy to us. He lifted us up, lifted the arena up. With Rob playing the way he is, he's only going to get better. The sky is the limit for him.
Q. Trayce, just give us your thoughts, what led to your first double-double and how well do you feel you played today?
TRAYCE JACKSON-DAVIS: I think in practice, just my teammates always pushing me to rebound. We do a lot of rebounding drills. I thought that was big coming into the game.
Just taking advantage of opportunities from the point guards, wings passing me the ball, getting me in position to score.
Q. Al, it seemed like they hit a bunch of threes. Just rotations you weren't quite...
AL DURHAM: We got to be better in all aspects. I feel like we got to be better on the ball, be better in help. We got to be able to close out. I feel like we got a couple things to work on, fine-tune in practice. We're going to hit those marks tomorrow.
Q. Race and Trayce, you were pretty aggressive on the offensive boards today. How big of an emphasis is that for you?
RACE THOMPSON: It's something we harp on every day in practice. Coach told us go hard to the glass, it changes the game. That's something we do every day.
TRAYCE JACKSON-DAVIS: Kind of agree with what he says. We go against each other every day. We're on separate teams, we're usually boxing each other out.
Just going against each other is making us better every day.
Q. Race, 10 points, nine rebounds, career high. Give us your thoughts on how you felt getting the extended minutes. You've been out for a while.
RACE THOMPSON: I felt real good out there today. I got my teammates that got my back, everybody got my back. Just playing the game. That's what we do, we play basketball. It's exciting out there. Had a good game. Just onto the next one. Excited to keep it going.
Q. Jerome hit two three-pointers late in the first half, gave you a boost. How important is he going to be as the season moves along?
AL DURHAM: Yeah, Jerome, he did a great job today. He sparked us. He came off the bench, hit two big shots for us. That takes confidence. I feel like he's going to be a really, really, really big part of our team.
Also he's rebounding. He's been playing hard, defending. If he keeps doing this, keeps working how he is, I mean, he's going to be a problem for real.
Q. (No microphone.)
TRAYCE JACKSON-DAVIS: No, that's just on his head. It's kind of a generic term. They usually say it when you dunk it and someone is close by. Usually they say 'on your head'. That's what that means.
Q. (No microphone.)
TRAYCE JACKSON-DAVIS: Brought a lot of energy, especially with the defensive play beforehand. I thought that's what really sparked it. (Indiscernible) rewarded me on the play, so...
Q. How important is it for you to get on the scoreboard in efficient ways?
AL DURHAM: I've always been more of a let the game come to me. I don't have to force anything. I know my teammates are going to find me. I'm going to find open shots. I feel like being efficient is really a key to me, I feel like.
I worked hard for it. I worked hard to be efficient. I just don't feel like I have to force it. I feel like the game can come to me.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT