INDIANA UNIVERSITY BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
January 23, 2020
Joey Brunk
Trayce Jackson-Davis
Al Durham
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Indiana - 67, Michigan State - 63
Q. Al, a shot to end the first half and another big one, how did the ball feel coming off your hands and to get the open looks, how big was that offensive setup to get that shot?
AL DURHAM: It was a read from that Robby had, I think from Trayce on the lob or me on the throw back, threw it back to me, but he threw it back. And I felt good. I've been practicing that shot all week. It felt good leaving my hands, felt good leaving my hands. And my guys got confidence in me. That's the biggest thing, really.
Q. Trayce, seemed like you were hedging those ball screens really hard the first half. How much was it the game plan to get the guards out of sorts?
TRAYCE JACKSON-DAVIS: Cassius Winston, having the ball in his hands we really tried to make an impact on them because when he gets downhill inside the key it's really hard to stop. So just trying to limit his going downhill is what we were really trying to do and help him stop making plays and going downhill, basically.
Q. Outscored Tillman and Bingham 26-14. Why were you impactful in those head-to-head matches tonight?
TRAYCE JACKSON-DAVIS: We played as hard as we could. In all honesty, we are going to give it our all every night. Play our hardest, basically that's all we can say.
Q. You just mentioned Cassius. You obviously got stuck -- not stuck but basically ended up on him on a switch on their last big possession. Basically take me through that play, was that the plan from the beginning where you were expecting to take him, what was it like keeping him from getting a look?
TRAYCE JACKSON-DAVIS: When we came out of the timeout, Coach called blue. Blue is our switch everything. And so I just didn't want him to shoot a 3. So I kind of baited him downhill and he took it, and I made a good play on the ball.
Q. Did you block it or was he throwing a lob?
TRAYCE JACKSON-DAVIS: He might have been throwing a lob but I still blocked it. I don't know.
Q. Joey, five top wins over top 25 wins over here -- why is this place tough to play in again?
JOEY BRUNK: We have great fans here at Indiana, and they were out early today, and they were rocking from the jump. And we love playing, love playing in front of them. And this is a great place to play basketball.
Q. Trayce, there were a couple times there where their guards would drop down and double team you. I know it's something that Coach talked about going into the Nebraska game. How did you adjust to that and in those stretches be able to still get to the bucket?
TRAYCE JACKSON-DAVIS: Just be patient with the ball. If they just get a little jump and go back to their man then I'll play it off of that. If they stay it's an easy kickout 3.
Q. Trayce, what is it about Joey that's allowed him to be so successful of late? And what do you think about him that's creating a fan favorite out of his play?
TRAYCE JACKSON-DAVIS: Just basically how hard he works on and off the court. He's in the gym constantly. He always wants to get better. And so basically -- and he's just an energy, he's an energy giver. He gives everyone energy. He tries to be a leader for our team and I think our guys are feeding off of that.
Q. For any of you, seemed like in the second half the rotation kind of shortened -- there wasn't a ton of subbing going on from Archie. How did that allow you to gel on the court? And what is that like compared to earlier in the season and when maybe substitutions were more frequent in the second half of games?
JOEY BRUNK: Honestly regardless of who we have out there in the rotation, there's a continual belief in everyone. And there's different rhythms to every game and tonight our rhythm might have been whatever, whatever that rotation was. And on Sunday the rhythm might be different; we might have a completely different rotation.
And night in, night out, it could be completely different. And we have guys on our team that are going to be ready whenever that moment starts.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT