CROSSROADS CLASSIC: NOTRE DAME VS INDIANA
December 21, 2019
Armaan Franklin
Joey Brunk
Trayce Jackson-Davis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Indiana - 62, Notre Dame - 60   
 Q.  Armaan, you hadn't really shot it well from three until today. Had you been getting extra shots up? Did Coach Miller encourage you to keep shooting? How did it develop today that you were able to hit four threes?  
ARMAAN FRANKLIN: Even though I was in a slump everybody was telling me to keep shooting. Putting in extra work after practice, before we practice really helps a lot, and we saw it helped a lot today.   
 Q.  Joey, the key with the rebounding in this game, everybody knew it going in, it had to happen. Had 11 rebounds in the first half. Talk about what it was like in that battle and winning as much as you did?  
JOEY BRUNK: You know, Notre Dame has got a great group of guys inside, and I wanted to be competitive and bring energy to our team and I knew that was something I could control from the get-go and I wanted to crash as often as I could.   
 Q.  Coach kind of talked after Wisconsin about just feeling like you guys weren't staying together enough in that game in some tough moments and he feels like he's seen growth from that, and UConn, obviously today kind of particularly that second half, how do you grow that? It's an intangible thing, something you can't just rep in practice. How do you get better in areas like that?  
JOEY BRUNK: I think positivity helps a lot, and there's a lot of belief between all of us and our coaching staff, and we knew we had to stay the course when stuff wasn't quite going our way. That's sports. There's ups and downs and we had to stay connected throughout all that.   
 Q.  Armaan, take me through the final possession where you hit the shot that put you up 62-60 to win the game.  
ARMAAN FRANKLIN: I was in the corner. I forgot who drove but they kicked it to Al and Al had enough confidence in me to swing at one more, so I just went up with it and knocked it down.   
 Q.  Trayce, in the second half you struggled at the rim and then you got that possession at the end where you dunk to tie the game. What's going through your mind to keep consistently going at it and get that bucket at the end?  
TRAYCE JACKSON-DAVIS: Really my teammates just telling me to keep going. Missed a few bunnies, but just got to keep going at the rim strong and then Armaan threw me a great pass and I finished it.   
 Q.  When Notre Dame goes up five, kind of slipping working on offense. What are the conversations like you're having with each other? Miller said players were holding each other -- kind of saying stuff. What were you trying to emphasize to get back in it?  
TRAYCE JACKSON-DAVIS: Most definitely just holding each other accountable. There were some times where our team was selfish, but we got that worked out in the final two minutes. We were swinging the ball and the extra pass Al made was just a great example of how the last two minutes were.   
 Q.  It's a little bit cliché but you're the three Indy guys on the team. You all seemed up for it from the beginning of the game. What does it mean for the three of you to put in the performances you did in this game?  
TRAYCE JACKSON-DAVIS: Just to play in front of our home crowd with the three other big teams that are here, I just thought it was fun to put on a show for them. They showed us a lot of love, so I saw a lot of red in the crowd, so I thought that was great to see.   
ARMAAN FRANKLIN: Yeah, you've always got to love playing at home. Even though we're not that far from home, it was still good to play in home court.   
JOEY BRUNK: Good to be back in our city.   
 Q.  Armaan, along those same lines, I know you have some South Bend ties. Any extra juice or motivation in this game?  
ARMAAN FRANKLIN: Not really. I mean, my aunt used to coach there, my mom worked there. I knew a couple coaches on the staff there, so I mean, there's not really much to it, but yeah.   
 Q.  Armaan, I'm assuming Victor probably came to see you guys in the locker room afterwards. After you hit that three he was going crazy saying, I told you guys. Did he say anything to you after the game?  
ARMAAN FRANKLIN: He just told me keep my confidence up and keep shooting it. No matter how many times you miss, just keep shooting it, that's all you've got to do.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT