RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 28, 2018
Whee Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  A couple bogeys there, but you always bounced back.  You have to be very pleased.  
WHEE KIM: Yeah, overall it was a really good score.  It was okay.   
 Q.  Pretty exciting eagle at 16.  
WHEE KIM: Yes, it was just like yesterday.  I made another eagle on 16.  It was a really good putt.  It was about 10 yards downhill, left to right putt.  I just tried to two-putt, but rolled it right on the line and made it.  I was so excited.   
 Q.  Talk about tomorrow now, four-way tie for the lead, you'll be in the second to last group.  Do you like that position maybe playing in front of the last group?  
WHEE KIM: Actually it doesn't matter where I play.  It's just play your game and see where you are.  It's really tough.  Nobody knows who's going to win.  Just do my best.   
 Q.  You've got to be confident because you're really striking it well.  
WHEE KIM: Uh-huh, yeah.  I just changed my driver loft before I started the week.  I think it's working really good, and I've been putting really good this week.  I think I'm doing really good judgment for the putting speed on the greens, and I think that was key.   
 Q.  A little bit of a frustrating finish at the end there, but overall a solid day, and you're tied for the lead heading into the final round.  What's your mindset heading into Sunday?  
WHEE KIM: I don't know, everything is very positive.  Just playing my golf, and got to have patience.  That's all I can say.  Yeah, I just missed a couple putts on the back nine and made a few bogeys, but that's all part of the game.  Overall made a really good score, so I'm happy with my position for now.   
 Q.  What's the game plan heading into a final round where you're not only tied with three other guys but one of them is the world No. 1 ranked golfer?  
WHEE KIM: I don't know.  Just -- I would say I'm not going to change anything.  I'm playing really good right now.  It's just trying to do -- just like the last two days and then today for three days.  It's going to be tough tomorrow again.  The wind is going to blow, and I don't know how much it's going to get firm on the greens.  Just got to be patient.  That's it.  That's about all I can do for tomorrow.   
 Q.  Going into the final round, is it easier to hold the lead or to chase the lead on this kind of golf course?  
WHEE KIM: You know what, it's all good.  Both are good.  You're chasing the lead or just leading the lead.  It doesn't matter.  Just play your game.  Everybody is going to play the same thing.  I don't know, just -- doesn't matter.   
 Q.  Looks like you're going to be paired with Kevin Tway again.  What's it like going around the course with him?  
WHEE KIM: I played with him many times this year over the rest of the season -- I mean, the last few seasons.  I'm very comfortable with him, and we talk a lot, and I think we're good friends.  Going to play one more day tomorrow and see who wins.   
 Q.  When you are all tied for the lead like that, is it key to be aggressive out of the gate tomorrow, or is there a danger in trying to do too much?  
WHEE KIM: You know, it's tough conditions to do something out there.  It's just -- like I said, just have to be patient, be patient every single moment.  That's it.  I think that's the key.   
 Q.  Were you watching the leaderboard today or were you just focused on your own game?  
WHEE KIM: I didn't watch the leaderboard all day.  I just watched after I finished my 18th hole and then I was tied for the lead with three or four guys, and okay, it's not bad.  Just try to do it one more day tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT