RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 27, 2018
Whee Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. This morning you had the lead at 12-under.
WHEE KIM: Yeah, the wind gusted so hard from early morning.  Fortunately I didn't make any bogeys, and then I finished all 18 yesterday, didn't get any delay.  Especially like 20 minutes' delay, it was okay.  It was good, just didn't make any mistakes today.  I think it was good.
Q. That little stretch when you went through 16, 17 and 18 must be a nice thing to have.
WHEE KIM: Yes, the 16th hole eagle was the best turning point.  So I made eagle, birdie, birdie and birdie, birdie.  That was really good.  Didn't make any mistakes.  Couldn't make more putts on my back nine, which was front nine.  It was more bumpy.  The grass is a little grow, much more windy.  Didn't make any mistakes, and didn't make any bogeys, so that's good.  I like it.
Q. When you're playing this well, is it hard not to think about the outcome that could be on Sunday for your first win?
WHEE KIM: Well, just feel more comfortable.  You know, don't really need to think about missing the cut or just making a bogey or double bogey.  Just playing good, feeling good.  Everything is great.  It feels very positive, you know.  I'm pretty much comfortable.  Just expecting a really good weekend.
Q. The chip-in on 16, was it straightforward or was it difficult?  Can you just walk us through that?
WHEE KIM: Actually I just tried to hit to the left side of the pin for my second shot.  It was a little ball above the feet and turned a little bit more to the right than I expected.  I just tried to chip and then tried to chip near the pin about a foot outside.  Fortunately it kicked right on the point and then made it.  It was good.
Q. You played with a Canadian the last two days.  How were the crowds out there?
WHEE KIM: Yeah, Corey, he's really nice, and he has a really nice crowd.  Also they were really good.  They clapped for me, too, all the Canadians.
Q. Talk about your putting.  26 putts yesterday, 24 today.  It seems like the putter is really good.  You have some opportunities there at the end, but overall the putting was really good.
WHEE KIM: You know, this golf course has poa annua greens.  It's usually a little bumpy.  And then also a little soft because of the rain last night.  It was more soft and more bumpy.  But just had a really good judgment.  I was always struggling on the putting green, just a little bit of change.  It's been working pretty good, just tried to focus on good speed.  Really good.
Q. I was with you at Greenbrier when you shot the 62.  Are you finding something now, 62 there, 65 today?
WHEE KIM: Yeah, I mean, just last few weeks had a really good start for the first two, especially at Greenbrier but didn't make anything good on the weekend.  John Deere was a pretty good week.  Expecting a better week this week, just hopefully the course not changing any more than this.  I think it's going to be a bit more firmer if not rain.  It's always been firm the last few years here.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT