NATIONWIDE CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL CHAMPIONSHIP
September 22, 2016
Whee Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Great playing.  Tell me what was going right for you.
WHEE KIM: I missed a lot of putts to start.  But I hit really good iron shots.  I made lot of good opportunities to make a lots of birdies today.  It was fun.
Q. What's your impression of the golf course?
WHEE KIM: Well, I expected more wind, actually.  I played here two years ago and then I got a TOUR card here and then the weather was a little cold and windy, but especially this week I don't feel much wind.  So, a lot of guys think it's playing much easier than the past year, so I'm going to need more birdies for the next three rounds.
Q. What's the key to your golf game?  Is it irons or?
WHEE KIM: The course is just, few holes, it's a little long and then a little tight, so I have to hit the fairway.  And then that's why you have to -- I mean, if you can hit more fairways on this course, especially on this course, you got more chances to get more birdies.  So if you miss the fairway, it's really tough, because the rough is really tough.  It's long, so you have to lay up.  So the key is you have to hit the fairway and you have to hit more consistent irons.
Q. How have your finishes been lately?
WHEE KIM: I finished somewhere around 35 for first one.  And then second one I finished at about almost same thing, 30 something.  And then I really need a good two weeks here and the next week, I mean two weeks in Florida.  I'm expecting really good golf this week because I like this course.
Q. Is there anything you've done in the last two weeks practice-wise?
WHEE KIM: I'm actually working on my golf swing.  I'm trying to get more relaxed, my whole body.  I was really tense on my swing.  So, especially the first week, I played really good for the first two days and then I played terrible on the weekend.  So I think it was the swing.  So I fixed it last week with my swing coach and it feels pretty good now.
Q. (No Microphone.)
WHEE KIM: The PGA TOUR is a really great TOUR and then it's the world's greatest TOUR.  I actually had a really good season last year and then this year was my second year and then after last year, in the off season, I went to the military for four weeks, so I couldn't practice for six weeks.  And then when I came out to the golf after the military service, I played, I flew to Hawaii.  So I couldn't practice much for the start of the season.  I think it was tough for me because these guys are so good and if I miss a few shots it's going to be no chance.  So, a lot of practice and then almost the end of the season I played pretty good and then I think I played my game almost in the end of the season.  So, for now it's pretty good.
Q. When did you do military?  November?
WHEE KIM: December.  So I started December 1 and then finished it December 31st.  So, then I flew out to Hawaii straight from my home and I just practiced just a few days.  And my body was different when I played golf then.  It was a lot different after that.  It was a good experience that kind of military service.  It was a different kind of experience from what I've done for a long time.  It was fun.
Q. Any of your birdies stick out today, any chip-ins or long putts you made or anything?
WHEE KIM: I hit a really good iron shots.  I didn't make any long putts.  I think the greens are softer than I expected.  The last few years ago it was real firm and then fast.  The speed is fast here, but they're a little softer, so it's playing much easier, especially when you hit the short iron in or a wedge, it really just stops.  It's a lot easier.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT