JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
August 13, 2016
Whee Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What is it about your round today that pleases you the most?
WHEE KIM: Just tried to make my putts on the back nine.  I had a really good shot.  Fortunately the tee shot was consistent, hit the fairway and then hit a lot of nice second shots, too.  It was all around 15 feets.  Hit good shots and putts.
Q. We're going to have a look at that putt for birdie, the last birdie on 18.  Is it the sort of golf course where you feel like you can get on runs of birdies?
WHEE KIM: It was a little downhill left to right.  It was about 12 feet.  I thought it was going to be a really fast putt, so I hit it very smooth and nicely.
Q. Do you feel out on the golf course there are so many opportunities, having a run of five in a row, the opportunity for that is there do you think?
WHEE KIM: Yeah, I think it is, yeah.  It's pretty good.
Q. And then as far as tomorrow goes, 154 in the FedEx race at this moment.  It's been a tough year.  What do you feel like you found this week?
WHEE KIM: Actually I really needed a good week this week and then next week, so I have to finish strong to get into the Top 125.  So I'm trying to do that, and I think I'm doing pretty good.  A couple birdies tomorrow, no bogeys would be great.
Q. Is the focus tomorrow on winning the tournament or do you think ahead to getting a high finish to move up in FedExCup points?
WHEE KIM: If I can win, yeah, it would be really awesome, but I don't expect that much really high, so trying to be more top 5 or top 3 would be great.
Q. Quite the finish there, five-birdie finish.  Just a couple comments on finishing on such a big up note.
WHEE KIM: I didn't expect that much.  Really nice play on the back nine.  I just tried to make more putts and tried to be -- for longer putts, try to be around the hole and make two putts, but it fall into the hole, so I made a really good result.
Q. You mentioned your goal is to get inside the Top 125 this week.  It's certainly a good way to head into the final round.
WHEE KIM: Yeah, I think I'm now in really good position to get into Sunday, tomorrow, and if I can finish top three or top two, even if I can't win, it would be really awesome.  But I don't expect that much, really best finish, just trying to be more comfortable, and then I'm trying to play my plan and hit more fairways and then greens and then make my putts like today, like I did on the back nine.
Q. Is the course drying up?  What do you expect tomorrow?
WHEE KIM: The course is pretty wet still, so expect one more lift, clean and place for Sunday.  I think it was really good to me.  It was really good opportunity to get more better shots to hit into the green from the fairway, and it was pretty good.  I expect one more time lift, clean and place.
Q. Did you see something coming like that, that last five-hole stretch?  Did you feel something like that was coming on?
WHEE KIM: No, I just -- when you play good, you don't see the leaderboard and everything.  We just all focus on what we do.  I think that's what I did.
Q. What type of expectations did you have coming into this week?
WHEE KIM: I just really needed one good week this week, then another next week to get into the Top 125 for the FedEx.  That's it.  Actually I hope really can finish well this week and then expect another good week next week.
Q. Was it the ball-striking, putting?  What was it in particular?
WHEE KIM: It was definitely putting for today, for back nine, yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT