MLB WORLD SERIES: DODGERS VS RED SOX
October 26, 2018
Rich Hill
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. On the question about so much has been said about signs stealing, tipping pitches, how have you done what you've done to keep that from happening?
RICH HILL: Well, I think minus the use of technology, which I would hope is not going on, if guys are getting the signs from second base and relaying them to the hitter, you've got to be a little bit more savvy as a pitcher to have multiple signs and change your signs if something like that is going on.  I don't have a problem with guys relaying signs from second base to the hitter because if you're not, again, kind of equipped to be prepared to change your signs to a different set of signs or a different -- whatever your variation might be, that's on you, the pitcher.  That's the way I look at it.
But as far as the technological advances that continue to keep moving forward in this world, it's going to be kind of a -- hopefully not an uphill battle to combat the introduction of technology into giving teams advantages.
Q. How about tipping your own hitter?
RICH HILL: That's something, too.  You have to be away of that.  If you're giving away pitches or what pitch you're throwing, that's on the pitcher.  You have to be able to make the adjustment and guys are -- video is a huge part of the game.  It's something that I know a lot of guys look into and they have been for the last number of years.
So it's something that, again, it's on you, the pitcher, to be aware of that and hopefully you have some great teammates that can help you out, too.  That can say, look, you're kind of giving away a few of your pitches, tipping, some of your tells, just like playing poker.  So you have to be pretty stoic and understand that the more consistent you can be with your delivery and the more consistent you can be with your approach to the plate, the harder it's going to be to pick up on pitches.
Q. In the midst comeback of your career, what has been the importance of that time in Pawtucket?  That was the summer of 2015.  Does that seem like a long time ago?
RICH HILL: No, it doesn't seem like a long time ago, but at the same time, I don't know who said it, but it's kind of like your first 10,000 photographs are your worst.  So you have to continue to persevere and understand that perseverance is probably something that could outlast talent.  And to be able to continue to move in the direction of something that you're passionate about and not giving up is something that I feel like I've been able to do.
But looking back at Pawtucket and looking back at the Red Sox organization what they were able to provide my family, my wife Caitlin, and our son Bryce with was amazing.  We wouldn't be in this situation if it wasn't for the opportunity the Red Sox gave us.
With that said, being able to throw to a great catcher like Sandy Leon, and work with a guy who can really conduct a pitching staff at the highest level the way he's been able to, it was no surprise to me.  And the same with Christian Vazquez over there, where he's been able to do equally as good of a job.
So just looking back and having that opportunity again and be provided with that, to go up to Boston in September and make four starts, and obviously pitch well and again find ourselves with more opportunities because of being prepared.  Being prepared for the opportunity instead of waiting for the opportunity and then not being prepared for it.  So it was something that I worked really hard at home when I was not with the team for a month or so, and put myself in that position because I was prepared.
Q. I wanted to piggyback on that question:  You spent half a season there with Memphis with the Cardinals' organization.  I wonder how you look back at maybe in that and also your time with the Red Sox, how necessary that was and what do you get from that time there, working with younger pitchers or seeing them?  Are there some things you pick up?
RICH HILL: That's a great question.  I think you find out who you really are, and that's the biggest thing.  Throughout all of these challenges that you have, whatever it is that you're doing, in your life.  For me it happens to be baseball and something that I found a passion for when I was fortunately extremely young.
But going to Memphis and being there in 2010 and understanding that I was not a sinkerball pitcher and some of the, if you want to call it, I'm not sure what the word is I'm looking for, but their philosophy was to kind of design a pitcher that maybe, so to speak, age-wise, in the later part of their career should become a sinkerball pitcher.  And that's just not who I am, but didn't know that until you really have to go through it, go through trial and error trying to figure out how to sink a ball or maybe this is something that is necessary, maybe I was blind to the fact that sometimes you're maybe stubborn, or you don't see when things aren't working that maybe it is time for change.  So I was open to that.  I was open to trying that but it just never was catching on when I was in Memphis, especially in Spring Training.  And then with the Cardinals.
And then going to Memphis is where I actually a guy that was in the bullpen with me, Rich Rundles, so he was a left-handed, sidearm reliever.  And I had just come off of shoulder surgery in 2009, and it was just extremely difficult for me to get kind of any consistency over the top, throwing over the top, because my shoulder just wasn't ready.  So I adapted and I made some good starts in Memphis and they put me in the bullpen.  And then when I went to the bullpen I decided to -- watching Rich and watching him throw sidearm and understanding that there is a need in the Major Leagues for left-handed pitching, especially out of the bullpen, make that adjustment to throwing sidearm.  So that obviously afforded me the opportunity to go into the bullpen at the Major League level.  And with that time in Memphis kind of develop the ability to drop down and use that as a weapon out of the bullpen, and actually kind of give myself a second act, if you want to say in this game.
And then again having an out in my contract, I remember driving with my wife, Caitlin, and I driving home to Boston with nowhere to go, we took our out on a whim.  Because we didn't think -- when you don't see something kind of coming to fruition or you don't see it kind of coming around, you say, I have to get out of this situation and see if there's a better opportunity somewhere.  And not knowing where we were going to go, Boston called and said, go to Pawtucket and get the opportunity there in September to pitch out of the bullpen for the Red Sox in 2010.  And that's where that first go-around with Boston was.
So I hope that answers your question.  I mean, there's a lot of crazy stories sitting here that we could talk for a couple more hours but that's one of them.
Q. What kind of influence has Mark Prior had on the pitching staff?
RICH HILL: Being able to have the opportunity to play with Mark in Chicago and see that the consistency of a veteran pitcher that he was throughout his career and to bring that ability, that dynamic ability to relate to younger guys and veteran guys is huge.  And I think that's something that he's been able to do throughout this entire season.  But also when you're in the bullpen, it's the ability to put things in perspective and make sure that guys understand that go out there and do the best that you can with the time that you have, and make sure that you give everything that you've got when you're out there.  And that's not just out of the bullpen but anywhere in any position that you get to go to play this game.
But the bullpen, when that phone rings, it's a different -- your heartbeat changes a little bit.  It's something that I think he's been able to speak to the younger guys about and have them understand that the time that they have when they go out there might be fleeting, too, so you have to make the most of it.  And that's something that I know he keeps it loose down there in the bullpen, and he also -- it's not just during the game but it's after the game and understanding the process of what guys were -- maybe their thought process, maybe the pitch sequencing and what they're thinking about as they are going about their workout on the mound.
Q. You tend to have a good perspective on things.  Manny Machado has been a polarizing figure the last few weeks.  What's been the Manny experience from your perspective?
RICH HILL: Well, I wouldn't call it an experience.  He's my teammate.  No offense to the question, but I look at it as he's a great competitor.  He's incredible in the clubhouse and obviously he's an incredible talent.  I think it's something that we're extremely fortunate to get him at the time that we did.
It amazes me the plays that he makes out in the field, his ability to be athletic or as athletic, as of an infielder as I've seen, whether he's at third or he's at short.  And just something that he has been very even-keeled, whether it's an 0-for-4 or 4-for-4 or a couple of big home runs in a game or a big home run in the game.  Whatever it might be, a big hit in the game, a big play.  He doesn't ride the highs and lows.
So it's something that -- he's obviously one of the best in the game.  And he's going to continue to be one of the best in the game.  And for all of us to be around him and have this opportunity, a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity for some of us that have been fortunate enough to be able to get back here again, just to take advantage of that and make sure that we all can do the best that we can in the situations that we're in.
Q. You live in Boston in the offseason, back in the Boston area, you know what it's like winning championships.  It seems like it's happening all the time with a lot of different teams.  Going through your career, if it ended today, great career, great run, great second story, but what would a World Series championship do for you?
RICH HILL: I think I always talk about disassociating yourself from the results.  So it's really about looking back on the effort that you put in and really being able to persevere through any kind of challenging moments that might be -- that you might be confronted with.
But just to answer the question, straight up, it would be amazing to win a World Series.  I think that's something that the 25, 30 guys in there, coaches, equipment staff, medical staff, it would be amazing.  There are guys in there that have won world championships.  So being able to talk to those guys and understand how difficult it is and respect the fact of how difficult it is to get to this situation, but then again how fulfilling it is at the end of it when you actually do get to raise that trophy would be amazing, especially with the guys in there that have been grinding all year, if you want to say, or even over the last couple of years.
We know how disappointing last year was.  We know the situation that we're in right now being down two games, but we're not out of it.  And I think the biggest thing is just keep bringing it.  That's what we have to do here in LA and continue to keep fighting, don't hang our heads and give ourselves the best chance to go back to Boston.
Q. Do you root for any Boston teams?
RICH HILL: Not right now (laughter).






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT