PENN STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 6, 2015
Ben Kline
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: We're now joined by senior linebacker, Ben Kline.  Raise your hands, we will open it up to questions.
Q. Ben, I was wondering at anytime since Minnesota 2013 to now, did you ever consider walking away from football or anything like that?
BEN KLINE: I have a great support system here, teammates and coaches and there were definitely some tough times, coming back from injury.  I think anybody goes through that but just leaning on my teammates -- (Away from mic.)
Q. After all this time, how did it feel to get back out there and play again?
BEN KLINE: It was fun.  I don't take for granted any opportunities to be out there with my teammates, and it was fun to be out there with them and get back playing on the field and play a good game and, you know -- (Away from mic.)
Q. Anthony just came in here and spoke pretty eloquently about what he's been going through.  What's it like to have him as part of the team, and what kind of inspiration has he brought to this team?
BEN KLINE: I think anyone who is close with Anthony takes a tremendous sense of pride in how he's handled things.  It's been an incredibly difficult time for him, it's been hard on a lot of us, as far as teammates, and he's been stronger than anybody that I -- anybody that's been involved in the situation, and he's been stronger than I would ever expect anyone to be in a similar circumstance.
To see him take the load as a member of this team and as a member of his own family and take that on (Away from mic.)  -- makes me proud to be his friend and makes me really proud to be his teammate.  I couldn't be more proud of the guy.
Q. (Away from mic.)
BEN KLINE: Um, I think, you know, everybody had a personal conversation with him and said what they thought they needed to say.  I kinda did the same thing.  He talked to a lot of us, and he was a source of strength for a lot of us.  To see him be so strong in that kind of situation, it was unbelievable just to see the way he conducted himself and the poise that he had under those circumstances.  (Away from mic.)
Q. (Away from mic.)  (Laughter.)  If you won the Rhodes Scholar, would that be --
BEN KLINE: I'm not even -- John is exponentially smarter than me.  The stuff he does is so much more complicated.  I think it's something that if he wanted to go for it he usually (Away from mic.) -- yeah, that's just like he's in a totally different league.
Q. (Away from mic.)
BEN KLINE: (Away from mic.) -- some capacity.  It was important to me and it was definitely a motivating factor.
Q. Can you elaborate on the difference, the contrast from (Away from mic.)
BEN KLINE: Yeah, it's very contrasting styles.  I think anytime you play one of the academies, it's a tough, hard-fought win.  None of us have played that since Navy, so it's really different.  It's just a total change of pace, it changes all your calls, changes everything, and we have a lot of respect for those guys, and they play really hard.
Then you move to Indiana who runs a very different type of scheme and they have great players, great coaches, they run what they run really well, and it's going to be an awesome challenge, and I think that we are looking forward to it.
Like you said it's a real change of pace, and it's going to keep us on our toes and we're excited.
Q. What did you want to do long term after football?  What are your plans?  Are you trying to figure that out?
BEN KLINE: I'm probably going to end up going to graduate school, either way, and -- (Away from mic.)
THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much, Ben.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT