ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 13, 2013
Chris Doak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Thoughts on the day?
CHRIS DOAK:   Tough day.   I struggled tee‑to‑green, and just as well the putting was good today or I'd have been a few more shots worse off.   It was good to get the last, 16, 17, birdies, and I thought I was going to get it there at 18 to get it back, but, hey, that's the way it goes.

Q.   That means you battled well as the winds picked up as well, didn't it. 
CHRIS DOAK:   The winds picked up as well, yeah.   Just didn't know where my swing was.   I was hitting it great on the range, and then that horrible shot come back.   I battled back. 

Q.   How were you at the start of play?   How were the nerves?   You said you would be pretty relaxed. 
CHRIS DOAK:   I was fairly relaxed, yeah.   I just got off to a bad start.   Hit good shots at the first hole.   Just missed the putt for par.   Then I made a few good up‑and‑downs, so nerves are not an issue. 

Q.   You don't tell yourself‑‑ or you might tell yourself, don't hit the panic button, things can work from previous days?
CHRIS DOAK:   Well, I wouldn't use the word panic, but just play golf, that was it.   That was the idea today.   Unfortunately the swing was not there but it will be there tomorrow. 

Q.   Did you enjoy the experience, if you like, of having all the support?   You said you would; they are good galleries around here?
CHRIS DOAK:   Yeah, definitely.   The galleries were there.   The cameras were there obviously.   It was a bit of buzz, so it was good. 

Q.   Thoughts going into the final round? 
CHRIS DOAK:   Just go low.   There's only one thing for it; so I'll be firing at all pins tomorrow, ignoring what the caddie said and just go for everything. 

Q.   One tough day for you?
CHRIS DOAK:   Yeah, awful is probably the word I would use for that.   Just thankful the putting was on form to save putts for par.   The first two days I was making putts for birdies, so swings in roundabouts I suppose.

Q.   You did some work with Bob Torrance before you went out; what was the plan? 
CHRIS DOAK:   I was ripping it at the range but I've struggled to take it from the range to the course, and today was one of those days.   Kind of found some of it on the back nine, but it wasn't all there. 

Q.   So your putter, your short game was bailing you out on occasion? 
CHRIS DOAK:   Yeah, more on than occasion.   It was just a tough day from tee‑to‑green.     







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT