ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 12, 2013
Chris Doak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Talk about what it's like to lead your National Championship after 36 holes,
CHRIS DOAK:   It's absolutely phenomenal to shoot 66,66 in the first two days.   You start the week thinking you want to go low but to actually do it is fantastic. 

Q.   What's the difference been this week? 
CHRIS DOAK:   I just feel it has been coming all year but just maybe haven't put it all together.   These two days, I've definitely put it together.   It helps Bob being here, as well.   He's not at many tournaments now, so definitely helps, makes a difference.

Q.   Talking about Bob Torrance, your coach, what's he been working on you with recently?
CHRIS DOAK:   Just more connection.   Even last week in France, played really well and came out of a few and cost me.     Just working with me on that.

Q.   How special with the support you've been getting from home fans this week?
CHRIS DOAK:   It's fantastic, to hear all the highland accents up here cheering you on, it's fantastic. 

Q.   Talk about the successive 66, 66. 
CHRIS DOAK:   Fantastic.   Had that cheeky wee eagle on the back nine again, which definitely helps.   Just solid golf.   Rolled out a few putts again today, so it was nice. 

Q.   And that cheeky wee eagle was a lovely putt, wasn't it?
CHRIS DOAK:   It was beautiful, 16, 17 feet.   Tough hole today, so it was good.

Q.   Are you proud of yourself?
CHRIS DOAK:   Definitely.   It's good to be leading in front of the home crowds, guys cheering you on, so it's great.

Q.   Extra proud that you bounced back after dropping a shot on the way home?
CHRIS DOAK:   It was just a tough putt.   That's really the only mistake I made, so in two days, that's quite good.

Q.   It's more than quite good; playing in front of your home crowd, how is that? 
CHRIS DOAK:   It's great.   I'm sure there will be a big following at the weekend.   People are up for it so hopefully there's a lot more people.

Q.   Are you getting messages of support? 
CHRIS DOAK:   Definitely, it's great for any player, not just me, but they are supporting all the Scottish guys out there.   So there's loads of messages coming through via Twitter and Facebook and these things, so it's great.

Q.   You do seem wonderfully relaxed; were you somewhat edgy knowing that you had been sort of right up there and you're leader all through this day? 
CHRIS DOAK:   Not at all.   I've been in positions and had a good score before, and the first round, it's just another day's golf.   Still another two days to go.   So I'll be looking forward to it.

Q.   It is a lovely attitude to have; are you going to keep that into the third round or will time tell?
CHRIS DOAK:   Definitely we'll be keeping that regardless what way it goes.   As I said yesterday, you can't be angry looking at that view on the golf course, so that's what I keep looking at.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT