OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
January 31, 2013
Chris Doak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Wonderful round of golf out there, what was the secret to success today?
CHRIS DOAK:   The secret today was got a new putter from Scotty Cameron, just went back to basics, just a steel blade, finally got the pace back and holed a few long putts today, as well, which is nice.

Q.   Your first time at this event, what do you think of the golf course?   Players are raving about its condition?
CHRIS DOAK:   The golf course is fantastic.   I mean all the golf courses out here are great, the last two weeks were great but this is the best one I think so far.   Everything about it, even the bunkers.

Q.   In 2009, you had your card but didn't work out for you, do you feel better prepared this time around, a better equipped game for the Tour?
CHRIS DOAK:   Definitely, after two years on The Challenge Tour, definitely made a difference.   Previously when I had my card, I played a few events here and there but it's definitely a difference, The Challenge Tour. 

Q.   Started like a dream, didn't it, birdie after birdie, racking them up and no faults? 
CHRIS DOAK:   The putts seemed to drop, I got a new putter from Scotty Cameron and went back to basics, what I had before. 

Q.   That suggests there was some frustration on the greens prior to today?
CHRIS DOAK:   Definitely last week I found them tricky to read.   I thought my pace was okay but when the greens are this good, and you're stroking it well, you know it's going in from four feet.

Q.   It's worth elaborating on the greens because they had some fungal problem or something prior to the tournament and they have worked so hard to make them good, and as an afternoon starter, you'll find them that they are stood in very good condition.
CHRIS DOAK:   I thought that memo got sent out by mistake when I turned up in the practice round, because I turned up on the first green and thought it was immaculate. 

Q.   First time here, so enjoying it?
CHRIS DOAK:   The whole place, Dubai is great. 

Q.   What are your thoughts on playing this event? 
CHRIS DOAK:   It's good to be out here in the desert for the first three.   Just looking forward to getting going, had a couple of months off working with a coach and it was just good to get here. 

Q.   Anything different this time around, because you've been out on the Tour in the past?
CHRIS DOAK:   Yeah, just a combination, I think it's mentally better, the swing is better, and just the whole general game.   All kind of clicking in. 

Q.   What's that down to, a lot of hard work, just experience? 
CHRIS DOAK:   I've worked with Bob Torrance the last four or five years, ball‑striking is better, just a combination. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT