ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 3, 2014
Chris Doak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   (Inaudible)?
    STEVE TODD:   I woke up this morning and thought I was going to be playing in an Armageddon, so it was good to see the weather, and then shooting 5‑under.   Still tricky today, but it was good, played well.

Q.   (Inaudible)?
    STEVE TODD:   I think so, but I don't know.   David just got impressive. 

Q.   You particularly like this course?
    STEVE TODD:   I played well here last year, was it last year?   It's just been a great job yesterday, and then today, just had the same as last year.   So pretty good.

Q.   Sometimes get golfers that have a baby bounce after they become a father.   They get good results and things.   Are you feeling that?
    STEVE TODD:   Maybe that is the case, and hopefully it continues the same results as the other boys.

Q.   (Inaudible)?
    STEVE TODD:   No.   I know I'm more chilled at myself.   Golf is not the most important thing anymore.   If I can just go out and play and see what happens instead of trying to push it.

Q.   Is the pressure off the actual game, playing the game?
    STEVE TODD:   It's more my wife and my family than just golf.

Q.   Is there something that comes in your mind when you're on the tee?
    STEVE TODD:   I see her face.   I've got a picture on my phone.   I just calm down.   I'm not changing it now. 

Q.   You still feel like you're in position for the weekend.   Given where you are on the Money List at the moment, how are you feeling about that?
    STEVE TODD:   It's obviously a good position to be in, and that's what I wanted at the start of the week.   Still have two days to go.   Still got to play good golf.   It's good that I've got two days at St. Andrews in a row, which is nice.

Q.   (Inaudible). 
    STEVE TODD:   I got back in town, the taxi pulled in at the driveway and they ran out the house and then took the car and drove out to the hospital.

Q.   Is that right?
    STEVE TODD:   Same as before.

Q.   Must have been about frantic.   Just wanted to be there?
    STEVE TODD:   Well, I wanted to be there for the last few weeks.   We were in Wales because we thought she was going to come early.   I really wanted to be there.   And then I was traveling on a Wednesday that week.   So I think the last tour of Wales was the same thing. 

Q.   You must be harder to watch the golf course just because you don't have that.   What are your main thoughts?
    STEVE TODD:   She's here.   She's healthy.   Definitely it's about her. 

Q.   What's her name?
    STEVE TODD:   Eva, E‑V‑A.

Q.   (Inaudible). 
    STEVE TODD:   Just played a solid round really.   There was nothing spectacular.   I started using the Odyssey tank and it's helped me a little on my pitch, and the putting in general. 

Q.   When did you start using it?
    STEVE TODD:   A couple of weeks back. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT