OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 24, 2019
Ryan Day
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








RYAN DAY: Got a real big challenge ahead of us this week, by far the best team that we've played. Not only just talent and coaching but also the environment we're going to be walking into. Scott has done a great job here of building this team up. He's increased the talent, picked up some really good players, both sides of the ball. They do a really good job of stretching you horizontally and get you with tempo on offense, and then on defense a lot of different looks and very well-coached. This is going to be by far the biggest challenge of the year for us, going on the road, night game at one of the toughest places to play in the conference.
We'll get going today with practice and looking for a good week.
Q. When you and your staff get together and talk about some of your guys, who's a guy or two maybe that you think needs to play more or will play more going forward?
RYAN DAY: Just on the whole team?
Q. Yeah, just in general.
RYAN DAY: What we kind of do is we kind of go by position and figure out who deserves to play, and that's what was so great about last week is that guys were able to get in the second half. We were able to get real good grades and a bunch of meaningful snaps in there that we could grade and figure out where they're at.
I don't think there's one guy in particular. I think there's a lot of guys who are proving themselves, and the more reps you get in games, the better it is. That's why that was so meaningful last week.
Q. At punt returner, Garrett Wilson looked pretty good in that role. How do you see his role progressing as a punt returner?
RYAN DAY: I think it's going to progress, especially when he does things like he did, which was hit a big return. We'll kind of see as we go, but the more he can take on, the better for him. He's still a very young player but obviously very talented, and the more he can take on, the more we'll give him.
Q. Adrian Martinez is going to be the best quarterback that you've seen so far and maybe the best athlete. Can you talk a little bit about what he brings that's so difficult to defend, and also what will you do differently this week specifically to prepare for what he can do?
RYAN DAY: Yep. Adrian is a very talented young man. He's a great kid. We recruited him and spent a bunch of time with him. I recruited him and love he and his family. Great competitor, great leader, got a great way about him. On the field, first off, he's big and strong and powerful. He's very athletic, so in terms of the run game, his ability to extend plays with his feet, you've got to get him on the ground, which is not easy. He's explosive, he's fast, he's strong and has good running skills, makes good decisions, and then throwing the ball, he's really accurate. I think when you combine that together of the ability to run and throw along with his intelligence and game management, he is by far the best quarterback we've seen.
Q. You talked a lot about Justin's ability to create plays and allowing him to do that. I don't know if every head coach would allow his quarterback to do that, especially a young one. I'm wondering were you that way as a quarterback and might that inform why you're allowing him to play that way?
RYAN DAY: Well, I just think that it certainly helps when you've played the position, that you've done it, so you understand how it works. But he's a guy who -- you saw him try to create one and took the sack the other day, but then you saw him also create run and scramble, then you saw him create and hit a 4th down to Rashod Berry. That's kind of what we've been talking about is that he's got to learn from his mistakes and learn from his successes, when it's time to go ahead and scramble, when it's time to throw it away, when it's time sometimes to take a sack, when it's time to get out of bounds, all those things. And very, very difficult to organize in practice. You're not live, it's just very, very different.
The more he gets experience in that, we get back on the film and we teach him off the film, then I think the better he'll be at making those decisions.
Q. Did you consider yourself a creative guy when you were playing quarterback?
RYAN DAY: I don't know how I'd describe myself. I think my intelligence certainly helped my level of play more than my athleticism.
Q. I think people wonder a lot about different coordinators and play callers sort of meshing together, but how important is it for the offensive play caller and the quarterback to be on the same page, and where do you think you and Justin are in that?
RYAN DAY: Yeah, I think it's very important. I think anytime you call a play, you're talking to the quarterback. We talk to the guys about that all the time. When you call a play, what are we trying to get done with that play. There's certain plays you're working all parts of the play. You're working a full-field progression and based on defense gives you, there's other times maybe you're taking a shot, sometimes you're throwing to a certain receiver. Sometimes the ball has got to get out on time. Sometimes I've got to hold it a little bit longer.
But that's all the stuff that's done during practice, done in the meeting room. But again, every time you call a play, that play is giving you information as a quarterback what we're trying to get done on that play.
Q. Have you had a chance to watch Wisconsin at all, and what have you seen from them?
RYAN DAY: Yeah, I've seen just highlights. I have not studied them at all, but we see them in some crossover games when we study film. They're off to a great start, and the quarterback looks like he's in a rhythm. Running back is running hard. Offensive line is always doing a great job, and the defense is swarming to the ball. That's all I can really tell based on what I've seen, but I haven't really studied those guys a bunch.
Q. Can you talk about Jeffrey Okudah and the ways you've seen him grow since you've been here?
RYAN DAY: Yeah, I think he's done a good job of taking on the technique that Jeff is teaching him and embracing that, and now I think the big thing for Jeff is now where are we going to go as we get into the middle of the season. I think he's flashed; got the interception last week, he's done some good things, but now that some of this stuff is on film and teams start scheming us up, how are you going to be able to respond to it.
Q. You guys haven't played a full four quarters yet. Nebraska has been in two games where they've had to go the whole way. How does that maybe impact Saturday night?
RYAN DAY: Well, I think it's a good point to bring up, that we have not played a full game, and in four games, that's unique. It's something that we're going to talk to the guys about is that we have to be able to play 60 minutes and prove that we can play 60 minutes. That has not happened. The good news is we've been picking up some depth and we've been building depth in these four games and guys have played so that we feel a little better about putting guys in the game when we need to and we can roll guys.
But to your point, we haven't been in the fourth quarter in a game where we've had to really grind and work through all that adversity. So that's a challenge going on the road this week because we will this week.
Q. And last week you had your first 3:30 game. This will obviously be a night game. Just in terms of game day preparation, how much does that change things when you have to wait around all day as opposed to --
RYAN DAY: I think it's significant when it's like a difference between a noon game and a night game. Noon game you've got to get up fast, you've got to get up early. It's like full metal jacket as you get going. But in a night game, you have to kind of build up to it. 3:30 is somewhere in between.
But we have our routine. We're still going to have our pregame meal four hours before. We'll do our walk-throughs and meetings in the morning, try to keep those guys moving. We don't want them in their rooms sleeping all day and getting lethargic, so we'll kind of get them up and do a walk-through, different things like that.
But it's certainly a gradual momentum builder towards kickoff. You can't go win the game at 10:30 in the morning, get them all jacked up because you're not playing the game then. There is an art to it, but a lot of our guys have played night games, so there's experience to build on there.
Q. Ryan, you guys have blocked a kick or a punt now in each of the last three games. What do you think Matt Barnes has done well with those units to allow that to happen?
RYAN DAY: Yeah, I think he's the leader of the units, and he's somebody that wanted to come in and have a bunch of blocks this year, and he's off to a good start. He's got a good scheme. But all the assistant coaches are involved with special teams. He's got a lot of guys involved with that.
And then the players, they're embracing special teams. I think that goes to show you the culture of Ohio State is that our best players are on the field and they're making blocks and getting some returns going that way. Special teams has been a positive for us so far, but we've got to keep that building as we go, and again, it's a whole team effort. But Matt is the coordinator and he's doing a good job.
Q. Obviously Urban Meyer put a huge emphasis on special teams. How important is that for you to make sure that none of that emphasis is dropped off?
RYAN DAY: Yeah, critical. I'm in every special teams meeting, and that's as the play caller and offensive coordinator, it's hard to do. You're missing some different times with the quarterback and some of the other position meetings. But I just think it's so important that I'm in all those meetings and making sure I'm on top of it, as well, because of what you said. Some of the reasons that the games have been won around here is because of special teams, and we want to keep that going.
Q. Isaiah Pryor made the decision to transfer, Josh Proctor missed last week's game. In terms of your safety depth, what does that do at that position?
RYAN DAY: Well, we think we have pretty good depth there. We have a bunch of guys, and when we went to the bullet, that kind of opened up some different things for us. And so now you're looking at you've got Jordan, you have Josh, and then there's some other guys there that can also play like Jahsen Wint can play there, Marcus Hooker can play there. We have some different guys that can fill in there, so we feel pretty good about our depth there.
Q. What were the conversations with Isaiah like leading up to that?
RYAN DAY: Yeah, there wasn't a whole bunch of conversation, and we wish him nothing but the best. We're obviously extremely disappointed that he would leave the program four games in, but you know, we just want to make sure he has everything he needs, and there's no ill will there, and he left amicably, so we'll just kind of support him the best we can and wish him nothing but the best of luck getting his degree and moving on.
Q. I think coaches generally seem to like this redshirt rule and the four games. Is this the trade-off that you have to make? Are you still in favor of it even know this could happen again?
RYAN DAY: Yeah, I think you're right. I think this is an example of where that hurts you a little bit. But I do think it's the best thing for the kids.
Q. Dovetailing off of the fourth quarter question, you guys have not faced very much adversity this year, maybe a little bit as you fell behind last week, but is there any way to tell how your guys are going to react in the second half of a close game until it happens, or how do you prepare them for something they haven't had --
RYAN DAY: Keep talking to them about it. Just keep talking to them about what it's going to take. We did going into the Indiana game. It didn't come out that way. So we'll just keep talking to the guys about that and making sure that they realize that. I think the older guys who have been through it before do respect that and understand that. I think the younger guys, they have to learn a little bit how that's going to be.
But all you can do is just coach them as hard as you can, inform them what it's going to be and give them the tools ready for when adversity hits how to handle it.
Q. The last couple years Ohio State has had road games that just got away from them. Do you as a staff talk about what happened in those games, and is that something you discuss with the team or do you not want to -- that's the past and you don't want to worry about that?
RYAN DAY: Yeah, for sure, we talk about it in the off-season, we talk about it in the preseason, we talk about it now. And I think one of the things that we have to continually do, which has been our mantra all along, is when you're a prize fighter, no matter what match you're into or what fight you're going into, someone is going to try to take you out, and you have to be ready for that. If you ever let your guard down, you're going to get knocked out. So that's been something that we've talked about in winter workouts, we've talked about it in the preseason, bringing it every single day so that something like that doesn't happen. So again, you talk about it, you address it, you just keep following up with it, and you just keep hammering away at it.
Q. I know Garrett Wilson gets a ton of attention, but I was wondering what your take on Jameson's progression is. I think he has some track speed that you might not have a lot of -- you have a ton of speed, but like that, know what I mean? How would you say he's progressed? And we kind of got a glimpse of that a little bit.
RYAN DAY: Yeah, when Jameson got here we knew his track times were off the charts. We knew his length, we knew his speed, but what we didn't know was how tough he was. This is a guy who's practiced really, really hard. He goes in there and just tries to -- there's a couple clips of film where he's just throwing his body around. That was really impressive to all of us. His work ethic is really good. I think he's got a really bright future ahead of him.
Now again, does he have to learn how to play at this level and all that? Absolutely. Same thing with Garrett. But both of those guys have bright futures.
Q. Nebraska has got playmakers you maybe have not seen the likes of with Robinson and Spielman and we already mentioned Martinez. How big a challenge is that going to be?
RYAN DAY: A big challenge. I think all three of those backs get you in different ways. Wan'Dale is really dynamic. He reminds me of the kid from Purdue. He could be a match-up problem for you if he gets on a linebacker or speed sweeps, things like that. He can do a bunch of different things, a little bit of a hybrid. And the other guys run hard, those two other backs, they run downhill, and they've got some receivers. Spielman, like you said, is a playmaker. And then Martinez, you have to be able to handle his feet, too. That's the other part of this thing. When you combine that all together with the tempo, it's hard to prepare for.
Q. I know that you've had challenges every game and you don't take any game lightly, but is there something different about this week? It almost feels like the preseason is over, like this really starts in earnest this week. Do you get that sense in the building?
RYAN DAY: Well, I think we're trying to approach every game like it's just one game every week, and we're trying not to make it any bigger than the other weeks. I think any time you're playing with Gameday at their place, this is something we've talked about for a long time, this game, and we know what a challenge it's going to be to go on the road and how big of a win it would be to get it on the road at a tough place to play, and they'll be all jacked up. It's going to be an electric environment with Gameday there. So we have to handle that. That's our first real challenge as a team.
I think there is that little bit of that feel going on, but just want to be 1-0 at the end of the day.
Q. With Adrian Martinez and when you guys were recruiting him, how close was he to getting a scholarship here?
RYAN DAY: Very close, yeah.
Q. What was kind of the decision like there?
RYAN DAY: So Adrian didn't play his senior year, and he was dealing with a shoulder injury. I loved him. He came for -- I forget exactly what game it was, but he visited with his family. Fell in love with him, great kid. It was just hard for us because there was no senior film, and at the end of the day, we just weren't sure.
But had a feeling he was going to be a special player, and so hats off to him. He is a special player, and he's everything he said he was going to be and we thought he would be, and he's going to have a bright future in college and then beyond.
Q. And just looking at your own stats this year, the tempo this year in terms of plays per minute is a little higher this year. Do you feel you're playing faster or is it early?
RYAN DAY: I don't know, I think there's times we're playing fast. I still think it's hard to tell because in these four games, the second half we haven't been able to really get out there with the ones and finish out a whole game. So tempo is a part of our game, but it's not something we're going to do every week, and we'll just keep using it as we think it fits.
Q. There are a lot of questions about Ohio State entering the season, new head coach, new defensive staff, new quarterback. You've essentially clicked on all cylinders these first four games. If you go back to July and August and how you envisioned the season, do you think you're ahead of schedule?
RYAN DAY: I don't know. I don't know. I do hear what you're saying. I think we've shown some flashes and we've played hard, we've played tough and we've tackled, but I don't think you know until you start to get into the meat of the season. You know, I don't know. It's just one of those things; until you really get going with some of these conference games, you don't really know where you are.
I am proud to say that I think we're playing hard, we're playing tough, we're executing, it's clean. There's not a lot of penalties, not a lot of turnovers, but that doesn't mean anything if we don't keep it going. Yeah, I mean, I think it's a solid start, but it's just a start.
Q. Maybe kind of a dumb question, but is an opponent obligated to tell you what uniform it's going to wear for a game? Know what I mean, color scheme, et cetera?
RYAN DAY: I don't know that actually.
Q. The reason I'm asking is because of the all black connotation the last couple years when you guys have played -- you haven't heard what Nebraska --
RYAN DAY: I haven't heard, no.
Q. When you watch Nebraska on video, people over there think they're better defensively this year. What do you see that tells you they are?
RYAN DAY: I agree with that. I think they are. I think they've added some pieces up front. I think their front is big, strong, powerful. They use their hands well, and then I think their secondary and linebackers are another year into the system. There's a lot of the guys that have been there last year, and I think they're doing a good job. Any time you're two years into a system then it's a little bit more intricate; you've got to get in and out of things, you can make in-game adjustments faster, and they're doing that.
Q. Did you get home in time to watch some of the end of that game the other night, the Illinois?
RYAN DAY: Yeah, I did.
Q. What stood out to you about their fourth quarter? Did you see a spark there? You understand what I'm saying?
RYAN DAY: Well, I think when you look at the numbers, I think it was 670 yards to under 300 yards, and I thought they had pretty much dominated the whole game. They just turned the ball over, so if they don't turn the ball over, I don't think that game is even close. So I think they're playing well.
Q. Seems like a lot of growth on offense, and you adapt your plan, obviously, to the opponent. There seems to be new looks, new plays. Is there less of a tendency to do that when you're going -- and the margin of error decreases against a tough, tough opponent at night, or do you stay true to yourself and keep growing?
RYAN DAY: I think that's something that we talk about on a daily basis, and that is how much new do you need, and then how much do you just want to let the kids play and run the plays they know really well? I think that's, again, the art of coaching is figuring out that balance. You don't want to just keep running the same plays where schematically you're not giving your guys an advantage, but then you overdo it and then they're tentative and not sure of themselves.
It certainly matters when you're on the road. I think there's more adversity when you're on the road. There's more things in the environment you have to handle. But again, on a weekly basis we'll try to make those decisions as we go.
Q. They've picked up things pretty readily, easily?
RYAN DAY: Yeah, I think so. Yeah, I think so. We do a lot of concept-based teaching so that we're able to kind of jump in and out of things as opposed to this is a play, this is a concept and how do you fit into the concept, and when you do that it's easier to move formations around, change ideas. Maybe you run a route but you just tag one guy. Things like that that are a little bit more concept based, and that way we're able to move in and out of formations or personnel groupings.
Q. When you were devising what kind of defense you wanted, was this one of those -- was the Nebraska offense one of those things that you saw that you need a defense that can defend that type of scheme?
RYAN DAY: No, no, it wasn't just that. I think that was just an overall decision. Certainly we take into consideration all our opponents in the conference when we go about making overall general decisions on scheme, but this is one that we certainly have had a lot of conversation about.
Q. Just overall you've got Austin Mack with seven catches this year, graded out a champion three times. What does it say about the unselfishness of that group that they're continuing to grade out as champions and maybe not produce?
RYAN DAY: Well, they're producing. Their time is coming, and I think when you -- last week Austin had maybe four targets or something in the first half, doesn't play in the second half, he has a touchdown called back. If he plays two halves, then if he doubles that, then that's eight targets, that's two touchdowns. That's a good day at the office. But that's just one of those things where he didn't play in the second half. He hasn't played in some of those games. And so really if you've only played one half of football for four games, the numbers maybe aren't as high. But I think those guys understand that, and their time is coming real fast.
Q. Conventional wisdom is that everything in this game cycles, what was before comes back. You've got two dual-threat quarterbacks. It's hard to see how that's going to go away, that it's going to cycle back to pocket passer. What are your views on that? Do you see that this dual-threat guy is here to stay or could it change?
RYAN DAY: No, no, I agree with what you're saying. I think when teams were more designed to stop I, backfield, there were big three linebackers, and then teams started to spread it out and then they kind of went to what we call bullet or hybrid guys in there, and then as teams started to spread it out even more, like in the Big 12 and things like that, defenses adjust, and then they're more three-down front and things like that, and then all of a sudden on offense they start bringing it in a little bit more and start to get a little bit big.
I think it's a combination, and if you're talking about the quarterback position, I think you try to find the best available, and then it's your responsibility to find the best plays that fit him. But I do think the ability to spread it out, get big and have the ability to go in and out of those with tempo is the way of the future.
Q. Kind of the same cliché type idea, you were in the NFL, people talk about one player being able to change a game. Is that accurate, or is that something we just say? And from your experience, how does that play out? How do you game plan that? Chase Young on defense --
RYAN DAY: Sure. I think dominant players can absolutely make an impact on a game. Now, he can't just do it alone, but he absolutely can make a difference, one guy. Whether it's a three technique on defense, whether it's a safety, whether it's a running back, the quarterback -- you know, I think that great players can make an impact on a game for sure.
Q. Justin has had to process so much in his time here. How would you compare the kid that you see now versus August or April or even January?
RYAN DAY: Yeah, I think he's four games in. I think he's got a spring and a preseason under his belt, and that's good, but there's still a lot to be learned, a lot to see as we get going in these conference games.
He has grown for sure, and he will continue to grow. And he's got a good approach to him, and he's got the right mindset. But there's going to be adversity along the way, and he's going to have to handle that. When you look back on all the great quarterbacks, they have to handle that the right way and they have to improve when things like that come into play and handle that the right way, and he will. But yeah, he's much further along now than he was then.
Q. Has there been a moment or an exchange you've had where you went, all right, we're there now, we're getting there?
RYAN DAY: I mean, there's definitely times where we see improvement, and there's always aha moments where you're like, okay, he sees this concept now, but certainly a long way to go.
Q. How are the coaching challenges different to get a team with six-win talent to win nine or a team with 10-win talent to win 12?
RYAN DAY: Yeah, I think that's an interesting question. I don't know if I have a great answer to that, but certainly leadership is huge. And so talent can take you so far, but leadership is what's really important. And then we have to do a great job with our toughness and our effort. Those are really important.
So if someone can tell you that they out-toughed you or outplayed you or out-effort or gave better effort than you did, then that's not good. At the end of the day if you can say I played tougher, I played smarter, I played harder than the other team and then we were more prepared emotionally, spiritually, physically ready to go, I think you're going to give yourself a chance to get from -- whether it's six to eight or 10 to 12 or whatever it is. You've got to take care of those type of things.
Q. I just wonder if it's a harder sell to get guys to believe they can be three games better from .500 or to get a team to believe when it's winning 76-5 there are things wrong here.
RYAN DAY: Yeah, I don't know if I have a great answer for that, either, but that's the art of coaching 18-, 19-, 20-year old kids, and you just keep going at it every day and try to make the best decisions you can. You try to motivate the staff to a certain message each week, and you just keep hammering away at it and you teach them.
Q. With your team is it more telling what you see in practice or what you see in games?
RYAN DAY: It's both. It's both because you practice more than you play, and if you see certain things in practice, you typically will see them in the game.
Q. Going back to the Justin questions, he seemed kind of excited -- maybe excited is not the right word, but being down early, having a little bit of adversity, obviously hasn't really had his back against the wall yet. What sort of scenarios are you putting him in in practice to try to replicate that and challenge him?
RYAN DAY: It's usually done in the preseason where you put him up against it or you get him into 2nd-and-long drill where you've got to play third and move him back, whatever it is. This time it's more about installing the plays and it's about learning the concepts that we're putting in the game plan and things like that. And then we talk about adversity and we talk about handling adversity and how those things as they come up you handle them like a man and you don't cower when things don't go well, and you find a way to solve the problem and come up with solutions. That's what great leaders do and that's what good quarterbacks do.
Q. Back to the safety question, now that you guys have changed the defense a little bit and are playing more just the one high safety, does that change anything as far as you're recruiting that position?
RYAN DAY: Yeah, it does for sure, and we've made some of those adjustments based on the body types we're looking for and the job description that we want out of our corner, safety, cover safety, bullet, those guys.
Q. We asked you a lot about this before the season started. I'm curious how it's gone four games in. Just with you being the play caller and the head coach and the other decisions a head coach has to make with penalties or time-outs or anything, what's sort of the infrastructure around you to make sure that you can keep all those decisions straight while you're calling plays and how has it gone?
RYAN DAY: Yeah, it's gone okay so far. I think we'll keep working on it, but I think in game, it's Kevin and Mike and the guys on offense, Stud and those guys on the headset talking about what adjustments or what we like the next series, what's going on in the last series, flipping over on defense and being there for those guys whatever they might need or something I might have seen, talking to special teams, what are we going to do this time around, are we going to punt, are we going to go safe, whatever those conversations are. And then when it comes down to end-of-the-half stuff, I'm pretty locked in there. I've got Kevin and Mike to kind of let me know if there's something that comes up with time-outs or taking a knee or things like that.
But most of those scenarios have been gone over already in our Friday walk-through or during the week, and then off the field it's everybody here, it's Mark, it's Ryan Stamper, it's Volt and Quinn and those guys. They've done a great job of keeping a lot of things off my plate during the week.
Q. When you're trying to think of like, even if you're not on offense in that moment, we're trying to attack them, what are we going to do next, the idea of this penalty just came up, wait, we could decline it, we could accept it, something like that, in the moment, do you always know exactly -- can you think of everything in the moment in your head right there, or does it help if someone says, hey, hey, think about this because you have a million things in your head?
RYAN DAY: I like it quiet. I like it quiet because I think sometimes too many people can just make it confusing, and so I kind of like it as quiet as you can on the headset, and then when the conversation needs to be had, it's had. But I think sometimes when there's too many voices it just gets confusing.
Q. What's the difference of calling plays as an offensive coordinator and as a head coach, not in a logistical sense but in sort of the weight you feel of it or your responsibilities of it? I would imagine it could be, when you're the offensive coordinator I'm just worried about the offense, I can do what I want; the head coach has to worry if I put the defense in a bad spot. And then when you're the head coach, it's like, man, I'm not just thinking a flea flicker here would be cool, but what does this mean for your defense, what does it mean for special teams. I would think maybe as a head coach you'd want to be collaborative and make sure everybody has their own voice, but also I would maybe think as a head coach, finally I get to do whatever I want?
RYAN DAY: Very comprehensive question.
Q. I like to lay out all the scenarios and you can pick one --
RYAN DAY: My answer is yes. (Laughter.)
No, I hear exactly what you're saying.
Q. Is it different?
RYAN DAY: It is different. I think that I take a lot of pride in the fact that I think all the guys on offense, it's not about just scoring the most amount of points or just getting the most amount of yards and trying to pad your stats. It's about the plan to win and winning. But I do think you notice the defense, and I think as time goes on, hey, maybe the defense has been on the field a little bit, they're a little tired, may want to slow down here, or hey, defense is rolling pretty good, let's pick up the pace on this thing. I think you do see it from a little bit of a wider scope.
But at the end of the day, you've got to do what's best for the team, and that's always been the case.
Q. And what percent of it is I'm the guy in charge, I finally can do exactly what I want to do? Is there some component of that that I'm not fitting my ideas to the head coach has the final say, we all work on it together? Is there some freedom in that like this is exactly how I want to run offense?
RYAN DAY: I think we've always done it that way where everybody gets into a room, we put it on the board. Once it's on the board we all agree on it and it's a group effort. That's everybody involved, that's not just me. Whether it's Kevin, Mike, Stud, the guys on defense, it's Greg, it's Jeff, it's all those guys involved in it, so it's not just one person. I think sometimes there's really good arguments. There's good back and forth, but then once we leave that room we come up with the right decision and then we all support it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT