U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2015
Bethany Wu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  So you're into the semis?  BETHANY WU: Yeah.   Q.  Good feeling?  BETHANY WU: Yeah, I feel good.  I mean, I've been in the semis before with Sierra at the Polo Junior Classic.  I just wanted to see if I could get my revenge on her.  I mean, we're best friends, so it'll be a friendly match.   Q.  Who aren't you best friends with?  You just had to play tardy in the -- it seems like it happens to you a lot.  BETHANY WU: I know.  I'm friends with almost everyone.  I don't want to say who I'm not friends with.  Golf you've just got to be nice to everyone, be respectful, so you just end up getting along with everyone.   Q.  This has been a pretty good summer.  I know you haven't been able to win, you've been runner-up at the last two big events, but do you feel like those two events have given you the confidence to hoist the trophy?  BETHANY WU: Yeah, I think so.  Getting runner up in my last two events has given me an opening to see if I can win this one.  All things happen for a reason.   Q.  I think you mentioned yesterday you went through some swing changes.  When did that start and when did you kind of start feeling the --  BETHANY WU: When did it start?   Q.  Yeah.  BETHANY WU: I started working with Bryan Lebedevitch in May, so it's been three, four months now.  I think we've only had three to four lessons, so I think it's been a good change.   Q.  What specifically have you worked on?  BETHANY WU: Specifically it's just getting more on plane, having a straighter ball flight, hitting it farther, too.   Q.  So it was fighting for a pretty big win for you today over Mika, who already won a USGA event this year.  Tell me about how you played today.  You seemed to be locked in.  BETHANY WU: I knew Mika was a great player, a great putter, so I knew my putting had to be really, really good today.  She missed a few putts, and I missed a few, too.  But overall I think I had the upper edge on that part.   Q.  How were the conditions today?  BETHANY WU: Windy -- it didn't really affect me much, but when the rain came, because I never play in rain in So Cal.  It doesn't have a rain drop.  When the rain came on, it got a little slippery, but overall it's good.   Q.  UCLA has had a little bit of tradition of Women's Amateur champions going back to Kay and Jenny Park and Uribe and Alison has come close.  Have you heard from the coach at all this week?  BETHANY WU: I think Coach just texted me, but yeah, I think I want to keep that legacy going on.  I try to try and win it this week, so yeah.   Q.  You're on the end of your junior career, and a player like you who has been really serious about this is what I want, this career, this college lineup, looking back, what do you think about that kind of lifestyle?  You were at tournaments all summer.  When did you commit really hard to this is what I'm going to do?  BETHANY WU: I think after I committed to UCLA, I just felt really easy-going with my schedules and stuff.  But I think I knew golf was the thing for me after freshman year because I was like, I need to get my college scholarship, so I need to focus more, and so now that I got it, I'm kind of easy -- making it a little bit -- it's kind of getting easier, but I've still got to focus on more bigger amateur events now.   Q.  Was the college scholarship because you wanted to play or was it to kind of ease the load from your parents to kind of take care of an education?  BETHANY WU: Both.  Yeah, both, because we spend so much money on traveling and playing tournaments and then getting a college scholarship just probably evens it out.   Q.  Was there ever a point in your junior career where you maybe second-guessed or thought, I'm not sure if that's what I want to do?  Was there ever some moment of adversity, I guess?  BETHANY WU: No, I don't think so.  I think golf was the only way.  I don't know what else I would have done.   Q.  You've really gone like all in it seems the last year or so.  You talked about upping your workouts and switching coaches and committing to improve your swing.  Who was kind of your role model or who kind of helps you make those decisions about how to structure your practice and how --  BETHANY WU: I think it's me and my mom.  I think we're a good team together.  She's always there for me, and I always appreciate that.  My mom is just my role model, I guess.  Yeah, she's the best.   Q.  What do you plan to study at UCLA?  BETHANY WU: Right now it's psychology because it's the easiest one to do at UCLA with golf.   Q.  What's been maybe your favorite memory like on the road with your mom?  Is there a tournament that sticks out?  BETHANY WU: I think my first AJGA event.  My mom and I were staying in the hotel room, and then my like dad accidentally drove home with my golf clubs, and then he had to drive back, and that was -- and then I ended up winning that tournament.  I mean, that was like the biggest -- I think that's the only memory I remember from my first AJGA event.   Q.  What year was that?  BETHANY WU: I think '09.   Q.  Do you remember what event it was?  BETHANY WU: It was like a preseason at Oak Valley.   Q.  How far from home?  BETHANY WU: It's like 45 minutes.   Q.  So you were actually staying there?  BETHANY WU: Yeah, I was staying at the hotel like right across the street from Oak Valley, and he drove home with the clubs.   Q.  That's more on him than it is on you.  BETHANY WU: Yeah.   Q.  When do you guys officially start school?  BETHANY WU: I think we start school September 24th.  Quarter system is kind of tough.   Q.  You're obviously playing this summer and not taking summer school classes to alleviate the college season.  BETHANY WU: Yeah.   Q.  Do you foresee that being something to --  BETHANY WU: I want to avoid summer school.  All I've heard is it's stress on stress and you can't play tournaments and then you're going to school, so I don't want to do that at all.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT