U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2015
Bethany Wu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Good match with a future teammate.  Have you played with Lydia much?  Do you know her game?  BETHANY WU: We played together a lot in junior golf, but I haven't played with her in a while.  It was fun.  I mean, it's Lydia, and we just joked along during the match, so it was a good match, yeah.   Q.  Are you feeling less pressure?  I think you told Beth Ann earlier this week that you didn't want to do the medalist thing again this week.  BETHANY WU: Yeah, there's little pressure now, seeing the top three seeds got knocked out of the first round, I was kind of relieved.  I knew I didn't want to be like them again this year, so yeah.   Q.  Tell me a little bit about your game.  You've been bopping around all summer, the Western, you got to the final --  BETHANY WU: North and South, yeah.   Q.  Tell me a little bit about your game and what this last summer of junior golf has been like?  BETHANY WU: Summer has been good.  I recently switched coaches after the ANA, so I think we're on the right path.  Runner up at North and South and at Canadian Women's Amateur, so I think my game is good right now.  It's at its peak, so I think overall, win or lose this week, I'm going to have a good summer.   Q.  Are you with Lebedevitch now?  BETHANY WU: Lebedevitch, yeah.   Q.  He works with Cristie, right?  BETHANY WU: He used to, and he works with Mirim Lee now.   Q.  What are you working on with him?  What's the change for you if there is one?  BETHANY WU: Just a straighter ball flight and faster swing speed, because I think the first lesson, he was like, you could swing so much faster than that, and we gained about 7 miles per hour after the first or second lesson.   Q.  Does it feel good for you?  We're getting close to the final; there's 16 left, three of you guys were Bruins.  Does that feel good and make you kind of proud for what you're about to join?  BETHANY WU: Yeah, I think so.  I think we're going to have a pretty good team.  Three Bruins making it all the way to the round of 16, that's pretty good.  I don't think that's ever happened in a while.  But yeah.   Q.  It was kind of a difficult spring for them; how much were you watching NCAAs?  Were you aware of what was going on and kind of thinking about at that point what you could bring?  This is going to be a big fall.  It'll be good for UCLA to come out and have a strong fall after that?  BETHANY WU: Yeah, I was watching it a lot, and I know since we lost Alison it's been tough, but I think they held on, and they did pretty well even without Alison being there.  Yeah, I watched the NCAAs, and I was like, next year we'd better be in the match play.  I really hope we are.   Q.  Is Mama Wu here?  BETHANY WU: Yeah.  There's Mom.   Q.  Is she caddying for you, or who's caddying?  BETHANY WU: No, Brody Hval, the head pro's son, is caddying for me.   Q.  How did you get him?  BETHANY WU: It's just by random chance, I guess, yeah.   Q.  When does school actually start?  BETHANY WU: September 24th, and then I move in September 7th, and then we start school September 24th, and we leave for Annika on the 25th.   Q.  So you're right away?  BETHANY WU: Yeah.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT