AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 17, 2017
Andrew Whittington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. WHITTINGTON/A. Pavlasek   
6-4, 4-6, 6-2, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How are you feeling, mate?  
ANDREW WHITTINGTON: Yeah, pretty tired at the moment.  But, look, yeah, it's an amazing feeling.  In front of your home crowd, in front of your family and friends.   
Yeah, I can't thank them enough for being loud and helping me through today.   
 Q.  Didn't you say you wanted them to get up and about?  Were they loud enough for you?  
ANDREW WHITTINGTON: Yeah, they were loud enough.  I just had a look through my phone.  One of my mates texted me and said, We'll be louder for Thursday.   
Yeah, it was unbelievable feeling out there.  Just great to get the win.   
 Q.  How many do you reckon you had in the crowd, family and friends?  
ANDREW WHITTINGTON: Yeah, a fair few.  I've got a big family.  It was nice of them to come along.  Yeah, friends.  A fair few there, that's for sure.   
 Q.  A couple good Aussie results yesterday.  Did that help you, give you a bit more drive?  
ANDREW WHITTINGTON: Yeah, it's good to have a lot of Aussies in the draw.  A couple of your best mates, as well.   
Yeah, we're just pushing each other, which is good.  Yeah, we're getting the job done, as well, which is even better.   
Yeah, it's a great feeling for everyone.  Hopefully, as I said, we'll just keep pushing each other.   
 Q.  How much belief did you get out of taking that first set?  
ANDREW WHITTINGTON: I think that was the biggest thing for me, getting that first set under my belt.  Played a really loose game in the second set to drop that.  I still backed myself in my game, what I've done over the preseason.   
So to do it in four, not in five, was nice on the legs as well.   
 Q.  You lost the first game of that third set on his serve.  30-40 on your serve with a couple of let calls.  When you came back from that, did that give you more belief?  
ANDREW WHITTINGTON: That was a very big game for me.  I think I saved a couple of breakpoints, as well.  I actually broke him the next game, which was pivotal in the match, I think.   
Got a double break in the third.  That's what I wanted after it was one set all.  Third set is a massive one to get the edge of two sets to one.   
Yeah, I knuckled down.  Made a lot of good returns.  Yeah, found a way to just sneak the break.   
 Q.  Kept getting treatment in the third set.  How important was that for you just to block that out?  
ANDREW WHITTINGTON: Yeah, it's massive.  You know, he's trying to take the sting out of the match a little bit.  Especially I think it was 4-1 in the third.  Probably looking for something.   
Yeah, I just had the ice towel on.  Yeah, just head down, business as usual once I came out again.   
 Q.  When you went over on your ankle, did you feel you wouldn't be here today?  
ANDREW WHITTINGTON: Yeah, of course there was a little fear.  I can't thank enough my physio, coach, my team, really, for getting it right.  Yeah, when I did go over it, it was a bit of a moment when I stood on it, was it going to be okay.   
Luckily enough, I kind of rolled on it, as well.  So I saved it.  Yeah, lucky enough to get the win today, as well.   
 Q.  When did you know for certain you were going to be right?  
ANDREW WHITTINGTON: I think the next day when I woke up.  That was probably the biggest part.  Waking up and see how it pulled up.  There was no swelling, which was the best part about it.  Yeah, by the weekend, I was back on court hitting.  Just got it strapped, icing it.  Yeah, it's 100% now.   
 Q.  What is the program between now and the next match?  
ANDREW WHITTINGTON: Doubles tomorrow.  Doubles with Marky.  I think we're about fourth match on.  Yeah, just get some good recovery, nice sleep tonight, yeah, another match tomorrow.  Obviously on Thursday I'll be on again.   
Yeah, just recovery.  That's the key for me.  Also going out in doubles and giving it a great old crack tomorrow.   
 Q.  How did you sleep last night?  
ANDREW WHITTINGTON: Good.  I'm lucky enough.  I've played a couple of big doubles matches over the past couple years.  I think that's helped me, as well, for today.  It was good actually to see my doubles partner, who I did really well with, Bolty, out there qualifying.  Unfortunately he didn't get the win, but good to see him back, as well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT