NL DIVISION SERIES: REDS v PHILLIES
October 9, 2010
Cole Hamels
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   KATY FEENEY: Questions for Cole Hamels. 

 Q. Can you talk a little bit about the development of Carlos Ruiz? You pitched to him for a lot of years. How has he changed and how has he helped you? 
 COLE HAMELS: I was fortunate enough to be with him in the minor leagues and throw to him a few times, insstructional leagues and in spring training. And I think he's come about becoming the full package as a catcher. You know, most catchers, either they can catch really well or hit really well. And they try to work out the rest of their kinks to manage. 
 But he's really -- he's learned every individual pitcher and I think that really does help just for the fact that he can anticipate with you when hitters are -- when you get into a situation, especially a crunch situation where you don't necessarily want to have to look for a sign, you just kinda know what you're going to go, and his gut instinct about what to call in those situations has come about. 
 Then he's been able to pick up his hitting. And that's been huge, to have a player like that. He's going to be great in the field and then great on offense. 

 Q. Cole, what has it been like having the two Roys here now and you're pitching in Game 3? Does it take the pressure off you? How has it been different? 
 COLE HAMELS: You know I, think being able to have Derrek Lee and Pedro on the same pitching staff last year, I was definitely able to pick up something from those guys because of the caliber that Pedro has been through. And Derrek Lee, with him being able to come about winning the CY Young and dominating in the postseason. 
 And then when you have a guy as the caliber of Halladay, I guess everybody knows what to expect. But at this same point, you have to go out there and produce, and he does it time in and time out, and he'll surprise you. 
 I've watched Roy Oswalt pitch, pitched against him and to have him on the team, that just kind of makes things -- it makes things -- puts things into a better scenario, because you have two guys who love to win, will compete at the highest level, and know what it takes to win. 
 And then to be able to pitch with those guys, I think you can learn a lot just for the fact that you have guys that you can count on. You don't have to pull -- you don't have to do as much just for the fact, because you can pitch your own game. You don't have to try to go above and beyond and try to be the hero. And I think that's when guys get in trouble, when they at that try to be the hero. They're not pitching themselves. And when you have guys that compete, you just have to go out there and compete and be yourself and things will happen. 

 Q. Cole, do you think because you have a 2-0 lead, can you play relaxed, a little more loose, or can you put the pressure on to win Game 3 and not let the Reds get a win here? 
 COLE HAMELS: I think the point is to not let 'em win. You never want to lose a game, especially in the postseason. So you go out there and play to the last out, if that's in three games, four games, or five. And that's trying to beat your opponent and I think that's all we think about, no matter how we play.
 There is a reason why we've been able to do so well in the postseason, and it's because we try to win every game and we don't ever take a day off, and we don't plan on taking a game off. 

 Q. How often do you sit down with Chooch and go over game plans? Roy takes a lot of pride in calling a game. He does a ton of research. How much time do you spend with him and how much conviction does he have behind the plate? 
 COLE HAMELS: I think we definitely -- we've sat down probably more so to discuss what we want to do just because I've added a new pitch in there, so we have to know when to throw it, who to throw it to. And throughout a season, then you kind of fall into -- everything falls into place. 
 But before every game, we talk about what we want to do to each hitter, but at the same time, you have to go out there and actually do it. You always put a game plan together, but once you get on the field, it's a matter of going out and playing and competing to the highest level and trying to, you know, beat the opponent. 
 And I think Chooch understands that, and I think we have a good understanding of what it takes to go out and win and pitch as deep as I possibly can in the ballgame. 

 Q. Cole, in April of '07, you had a great game here, 15 strikeouts. How much of that game do you remember? How much of the events leading up to that game do you remember? There was a rather noteworthy team meeting before that game, and I was wondering if that -- when you took the mound that night, if you had a feeling that you needed to do something to help them win that night because you were 4-11 at that point?
 COLE HAMELS: Truly, all I remember is I was effectively wild. It's not like I was hitting every spot and guys were not swinging. I was getting a lot of foul balls, and then when I was able to finish off a guy, I finished him off. Sometimes those games happen. 
 But I was able to pitch all nine innings. That was my first complete game, so that's probably the only thing I remember because that's something special in itself. Because I'm not -- I don't have 50 or 60 complete games in my pocket like the other guy we have on our team. That's hard. The team meeting, it happens in all teams and it's just that was the point that year that we had one of a few team meetings. 

 Q. Cole, curious, what is it like pitching against a team like this that you've had so much success against? Specifically, what is it like for you pitching in this ballpark where you've had a lot of success? 
 COLE HAMELS: You know, every year the team has been different. I think I only remember one person that's been on the team this whole time and that's Phillips. 
 So you can't really say much. When they change the players around, a guy that you knew you could get out, well, now you got somebody else that you have to research about, and you have to go and get the guy out. 
 Pitching in this ballpark, they have a great mound, great set-up. It's similar to Citizens Bank Park. So it can be familiar in that sort of area. I only get to pitch here once a year so it could just be the scenario that I was hot that month and I happened to pitch in Cincinnati. 

 Q. This is the fourth time you'll take the mound with a chance to close out a team in a playoff series. The teams 3-0 in the previous three. Is there a reason you thrive in that situation? 
 COLE HAMELS: I truly just go out there to win it and do the best I possibly can. I think I've been fortunate enough to be in those situations where it's been a clinching game, and I've been able to do well. But at the same point, we have to score runs. We have to try to minimize the damage. And it's just -- to be able to pitch in the postseason, I think is a special moment in itself. And I just enjoy being able to go out and still be able to pitch right now. 

 Q. Cole, how different is your mind-set this postseason than it was a year ago, and how much are you looking forward to putting that postseason behind you by starting this one? 
 COLE HAMELS: I already put that one behind me in November. So -- this is just a year that I'm going out there and trying to be the best I possibly can. And it's something -- to be able to be in the postseason, I think, is something that I'm just trying to do the job that I know I'm capable of doing, and having my teammates support me all the way. 

 Q. Cole, you made your big league debut here in '06. When you think back to that day, what sticks out, a moment, a feeling, stepping on the mound, anything like that, when you think back? 
 COLE HAMELS: That was the first time I ever pitched in rain (chuckles). It's a special time to finally achieve that goal that you set out when you're young and when you get drafted and then you're moving up the ladder in the minor leagues. It's to get to the big leagues and to try to stay as long as you can in the big leagues. This is the place where I debuted and it's special just because that's the place I debuted. I don't know anything else, because I try to move on and play every game as though this is the one game I need to win no matter if it's spring training, regular season, or postseason. 

 Q. I'm struck by how well you've done considering your home ballpark is such a hitter-friendly ballpark. Has that shaped you pitching your home games here for your whole career? Most of your career? Has that affected how you've pitched or affected anything good? 
 COLE HAMELS: I don't think it's affected any way I pitch, but I think it puts the fear of giving up the big home run in a different perspective because you can easily do it in the ballpark I pitch at, and obviously this ballpark. I think you just tend to try to make better pitches and stay down in the zone a little more, just because of that fact. 
 Because when you pitch in the big leagues, guys are going to hit home runs. But if you can minimize the amount of home runs they hit, then it's just -- you know, you're trying to pitch. I think it's kind of more so when you go to a bigger ballpark -- I'm in amazement of how big the place is. 

 Q. You alluded earlier to having another pitch this year. For a young pitcher, you've made a lot of playoff starts in your career. How better prepared are you this year than making that NLDS start back in '07? 
 COLE HAMELS: I have a good idea of what comes with being in the postseason, the differences with the exposure, the crowds, home-field advantage, what that kind of means to a team, you know, just the way guys play. 
 I think I've learned that you can't try to be a hero in the postseason. You have to just play your game, and if you do that right, then you can become one. When you try to go outside your realm, you're going to get yourself in trouble. 
 If you pitch the most simple game, it can be an amazing game. But you have to understand that if you don't pitch your game, it can be definitely blown out into a different sort of proportion than you're used to in the regular season. 
 KATY FEENEY: Thanks, Cole. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT