NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: GIANTS v PHILLIES
October 23, 2010
Cole Hamels
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Questions for Cole Hamels.   
  
  Q. Have you thrown your regular side sessions, and if they needed you tonight, would you be able to do that if they needed it?  
 COLE HAMELS: I threw a side session yesterday. I think I was supposed to throw in San Francisco, but kind of the timing, you don't know.   
 And if the situation where a game goes 15 innings, you might need a pitcher. And I think at that point if I've already thrown a bullpen I've never been in a situation like that, it might have been better not to throw a bullpen and just wait.   
 Came in yesterday, through my normal pen. But at the same time, if it's a situation where it could be possibly the last game I'd love to be able to pitch. If it gets us another game, then so be it.   
 I think I've done enough working out and exercise where I feel strong. And I feel capable of getting that opportunity.  
  
  Q. You've pitched clinching games before, a number of them. What role will that experience play if you get to that spot tomorrow?  
 COLE HAMELS: I don't know if it necessarily gives you much experience, just because the fact every time you pitch in a clinching game you're excited; it's something new.   
 I think that knowing how to control your emotions in the playoffs is one thing. Controlling your emotions in a clinching game in the postseason is different. So there's always going to be that sort of excitement that you just can't control.   
 But just taking the basic knowledge that you have to treat it as a game that you're trying to win, just like the first game of a season, and I think that's kind of the mindset that I convinced myself that I need to have.   
 And once you're in the field, you just kind of let the game play out. I don't think there's anything that you can really prepare for. You just have to know yourself and know you have to make pitch after pitch and execute.  
  
  Q. Can you talk about how strong you feel, can you talk about the difference between you now as opposed to you this time last year, if there's anything, physically, mentally, in terms of how you feel?  
 COLE HAMELS: I think I've set myself in a better physical and mental state. I think last year I was more hoping to do well instead of kind of having that confidence that I know I can do well.   
 At this point, right now, I have confidence I can go out there and get the job done. And at the same time of knowing that, I think it's a lot easier to prepare for a game, because you can really focus on what you have to do and how to go do it as opposed to just wanting to do well.  
  
  Q. Charlie just said it's not a matter of if we get to a Game 7, we are going to get to a Game 7. That's how he feels. Do you feel the same way and do you think your teammates feel the same way as Charlie: It's not if we win this game tonight; we are going to get to a Game 7?  
 COLE HAMELS: Of course. That's how we've played all season. I don't think we go out to lose a game. And we have the confidence in each other. I think we're very excited to be home, because you have the last at-bats. You have your home fans, you have that sort of energy. And that kind of pumps you up.  
 And at the same point, this is the type of team we've been for a long time. We're a team of winners. We know how to win. We know how to get the job done. And it's just a matter of going out today getting the job done and going on tomorrow.  
  
  Q. Couple of quick questions. Number one, I was kind of surprised, but did you realize that the Phillies have never played a Game 7 in club history?  
 COLE HAMELS: No, I think that's more because I'm aware I'm from San Diego and I didn't know much about the Phillies back in the day. But as long as I've been here we haven't had to. We've been fortunate every time we've been in the postseason we've been able to I guess get the series done and over early. But in this case we're playing a very good team on the other side and they're doing everything they possibly can.  
 So we have to step it up a notch and get to that Game 7 and win it from there.  
  
  Q. I don't think the Padres have done it either.   
 COLE HAMELS: No. I'm very aware of that one.  
  
  Q. The other night, when you were going toe to toe with Cain, were you watching Cain closely in between innings as he was pitching? What did you see from that?  
 COLE HAMELS: No, not really. I was just focusing on what I had to do and what our hitters were trying to do. If I was getting up, I had to either get a bunt over or try to get a hit. When I'm in a game situation, I don't really look at the opposing pitcher, how he's doing, who he is; it's just I have a job to do. And that's my first and foremost response to anything, is just to go out and try to execute pitches and give my team the best opportunity, as obviously the opposing pitcher's probably trying to do with himself.  
  
  Q. Last year you would have pitched Game 7 of the World Series, and obviously you're in line to pitch Game 7 of this series. Is there a different mentality? Is there a different way you approach pitching like a do-or-die type of game? And how would you kind of try to keep yourself calm from getting too excited?  
 COLE HAMELS: I think that starts from square one, however you pitched during the season, I think that's kind of something where I try to go out and win all 33 or 34 starts. So it's a do-or-die situation right there.   
 And I think if you're able to prepare and treat every game as that sort of importance, when you actually do get to the games that are supposedly more important than the others, even though to us they're all the same, then you know how to handle it.   
 And that's kind of what I guess Game 7 with all the hoop and excitement surrounded by it, it's another game that I know I have an opponent on the other side, trying to study as much as I possibly can on how to get each hitter out, if the situation comes up, how to get out of that, and helping my team on offense if I have to bunt a guy over.  
 I think that's just the way that all of us on this pitching staff have been treating every game, because if we don't win one game during the regular season, that could make the difference between making the postseason or not. When you get to the postseason, you go from there and you build upon each game.  
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT