JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 12, 2008
Philip Francis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You said yesterday you were going to come out like you were going to win the thing. You're in contention. 
 PHILIP FRANCIS: Exactly. I wasn't even thinking about the cut yesterday, I was just thinking about creeping up the leaderboard. Today I went in with the same mindset and got off to a good start, birdied three of the first four, and kept it going from there. I didn't really miss many shots the whole day and hit my irons real close, real tight, didn't short-side myself and just played a really solid round of golf and capitalized on my opportunities.

 Q. Was there a shot that got you going?
 PHILIP FRANCIS: Not really. I mean, it started from the first hole. I stuck a pretty tough shot to the back left pin on the par-5, No. 10, and from there I was hitting the ball real well, rolling it well, real confident, and just went along with it.

 Q. Did the course play a little longer today with the rain from earlier?
 PHILIP FRANCIS: Yeah, it did. It was actually a much different wind today. Nine right here was straight downwind; yesterday it was dead into the wind. Yesterday I hit 3-iron in, today I hit 9-iron in. So obviously quite a bit different. I liked it better today, obviously.

 Q. When you get in a zone like that, no bogeys, you didn't hit a bad iron all day, what's in your mind? 
 PHILIP FRANCIS: Honestly, I'm not really thinking about much. In between shots I'm not really even thinking about golf or anything having to do with it. I'm just trying to keep my mind clear and keep myself out of my own way in a way.

 Q. Is this the most productive summer vacation you've ever had?
 PHILIP FRANCIS: So far it's been pretty good. I finished Top 10 in the Northeast Am a couple weeks ago, and that was my first event of the summer, and that's one of the biggest amateur events. And then to come here and do this, so far it's really an honor and a privilege to do it at my age, and tomorrow I'm just going to go out and try to do the same thing.

 Q. You talked about creeping up the leaderboard. Did you peek over there regularly during the day, think about how low your score was going?
 PHILIP FRANCIS: Yeah, I mean, I knew where I stood really the whole day. I was 3-under through 9, and I knew it was -- like I said, creeping up, and made four birdies on the back side and got it to 7. I was tied for 9th.

 Q. How much are you going to be thinking about winning tomorrow?
 PHILIP FRANCIS: I mean, I'm just going to go out there and do the same exact thing I did today and try to limit the amount of mistakes I make and fire at pins when I can, but on the other hand, but not fire at pins when I'm not supposed to and try to capitalize on opportunities I get.

 Q. You walk away from a substantial amount of money as an amateur, no check. Can you put a price tag on the experience? 
 PHILIP FRANCIS: Oh, it's unbelievable. I mean, just at the age of 19 to be doing this, like I said, it's an awesome privilege and honor and something I'll remember the rest of my life. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT