NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: METS v BRAVES
October 11, 1999
John Rocker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. John, do you think your mentality has changed since you've become a closer, since
last season?

JOHN ROCKER: Yeah, I definitely think it has. A guy my age, I guess, coming into a team
like this, a situation like this, where day-in and day-out, you're expected to win, and,
really, demanded to win, by the fans, as much as anybody: Ourselves, the guys on the team
and stuff. I think with each outing over the course of this year, and especially last
year, as well, with each good outing, my confidence would kind of build up a little bit,
get a little stronger. And I guess that was kind of the culmination in Friday night's
game, coming into a situation like that, looking to go down 2-1 to Astros, and come back
to win Saturday and Sunday, against Reynolds, who shuts us down in Game 1, and Lima, a
20-game winner. It was going to be a uphill battle. To squeeze out that little narrow
opening we got and come through like that, and give our team a chance to win, it was a big
boost; that's what I'm paid to do. But the odds of getting out of a situation like that in
front of 50,000 opposing fans and a good team like that is slim to none. When you go do
that and help your team win, it's a big confidence booster.

Q. Any thoughts on New York, John?

JOHN ROCKER: Yeah, you kind of have to look at it in a different perspective. You can't
really go up there and think: "I'm going to win these fans over, they're going to be
a fan of me, because I'm a good player." If you're wearing a different uniform,
they're not going to like you, and they are going to swear at you and talk about your
family, and it's got to be -- I guess you have to treat it as a motivating tool. It
doesn't bother me a bit. They can say whatever they want to. I was getting heckled and
jeered at as bad as I've ever gotten the last time we were up there, and after talking the
trash in the paper, but it doesn't bother me at all. It's just like Brian said that he
gets a little more motivated when he's in a visiting park and has all the adversity to put
up with the fans. I take it as a motivating tool. But it's as bad there as it is anywhere
else. And it's the kind of thing that does get under your skin and the good athletes, the
guys that are driven by stuff like that, I think it's -- the fans think it's demoralizing
tool to heckle you and stuff like that, but the guys that are Big League ballplayers, that
are professional athletes that are the really driven kind of athletes who are the majority
of the people who make it to this level. They use that as a kind of tool to motivate
themselves not to demoralize themselves.

Q. Any thoughts about the Mets and their manager, John?

JOHN ROCKER: Yeah, there's a few. Exactly which ones I should voice, I'm not really
sure. Well, I look at the Mets team, and 7 of their 9 hitters are.300 hitters. They have
the best infield in the history of the game, great bullpen, veteran starting pitching. I'm
really shocked to see how they had to squeak into the playoffs with a one-game playoff
against the Reds to even get here. At least, I thought they should beat us out for the
division, just looking on paper, at talent, theirs versus ours. They went out, made a lot
of acquisitions off season, and before the trading deadline. And for us to still come out
and beat them 9 out of 12 games, I don't see how Bobby Valentine could say a word. We
don't know what's going to happen in this series. There's been many, many series in
football, baseball, whatever sport you want to look at, where one team seems to dominate
the other team during the regular season, and the team that's been dominated comes out
when all the chips are down in the postseason and steps it up and kind of undoes all those
defeats they received in the regular season. That may happen, who knows. But we have a lot
of respect for the Mets because even though we did beat them 9 out of 12 games, all those
games were hard-fought games, and 2-1 victories, 3-2 victories, stuff like that. But I
think just as well as we give them respect, I don't think Bobby Valentine has much to pay
for us.

Q. (Inaudible.)

JOHN ROCKER: I wouldn't really say that, because not really up until -- not really up
until the trade deadline, I was still hearing rumors of getting this close or getting that
close. I really thought I was doing a pretty good job. I think if I'd been able to hold
on, I guess, right at the end of the first half and make the All-Star Team, I had a couple
of bad games, and it cost me an All-Star Game selection, perhaps. I'm not really sure. I
think if I'd actually been able to make the All-Star Team, that would have, in my mind,
solidified me as the closer. But when you're with a team like this, you know, who has to
win consistently every single month out of the year, you get a bad month where you lose 15
out of 25 games or whatever, and you drop out of first place. Immediately the front
office, the manager, whoever, they're going to want to look for somebody to step up and
take the ball and get you back on the winning track. So it really -- really at no point
did I really feel 100 percent comfortable. No matter what I do now, I'm going to be the
closer. In August, even after I'd saved probably 25 games and had good numbers, if I'd
blown 6 straight saves in August, I think they would be looking around for somebody to
carry them in September.

Q. John, can you talk about the bullpen as a group?

JOHN ROCKER: Yeah, I think maybe all bullpen is kind of like a unit of the entire team.
The team as a whole in the mid-season rallied around each other to find nitpicky things to
do, scratch and claw to come up with runs and games. I think the bullpen has been the same
way; carry was a huge loss. His good numbers, his 30 saves, his good ERA, whatever he was
going to be doing this year. I don't know if he would be the closer or whatever. But
losing an arm like his out of the bullpen was a big loss. And Rudy, he was as solid as a
set-up guy as there is in the Big Leagues, and have him go down with a season-ending
injury was tough to us. But Mulholland came on, and he's kind of the jack-of-all-trades
when it comes to pitching: Start and close and setting up, middle relief, whatever; he
goes out and gives you quality innings every time out. I don't know where we'd be without
him. And, of course, Mike Remlinger is having a career year with the numbers he's put up.
Without those two guys, I think we would kind of be where the Mets ended up, and maybe
scrapping for a wild card.

Q. How motivating is it for you to know the opposing manager does not have respect for
you?

JOHN ROCKER: I don't think it's really any more motivating. We're going to want to beat
the Mets, as bad as we possibly can, whether Bobby Valentine thinks we're a good team or
not. It's not like I'm going to say or Chipper is going to say or whatever that Bobby
Valentine doesn't like me; I'm going to go out and hit a home run to show him. Chip is
going to go out and hit home runs and drive home runs in, no matter what the opposing
manager says about him. I'm going to go out and strike out the other side no matter what
the opposing manager says. You have to sit back and wonder how you can play a team like
you played all year, and you might not like us, you might think you can beat us. I mean,
every team when you go into a series always thinks they can beat the other team. They
never go in and say: "We can't beat them, they're too good." But at least have
respect for the other team. They are a good team, we think we can beat them. But yes,
we're going to beat them, but I just don't really see that kind of an attitude at all.

Q. John, do you ever see yourself getting mellow in your old age, maybe walking from
the bullpen to the mound?

JOHN ROCKER: I hope I do, because I don't think I can keep up with this pace for
however many more years I've got left in me. I think if I keep up with the frantic pace I
go now, I think I'll probably die young, which might not be a bad thing. But I don't know,
a lot of guys I've talked to over the years said I used to be just like you, first two or
three years of my career, and I'd watch like Norm Charlton said the same thing, he said:
"I was exactly like you when I was 23 years old." And then I watched Norm pitch,
he was more mellow in the way he dealt with things. I'll calm down or burn out trying, I
guess. 

Q. Can you gauge the pressure last year as compared to this year? And the second
question was not being around last year, being around now, being a part of this team?

JOHN ROCKER: To tell you the truth, I know you can look at it two ways, I guess.
There's always pressure. Us, the Yankees, Cleveland, the teams who get here a lot. And we
certainly don't want to be known as the youngest as the "Buffalo Bills" of the
90's, when get the four straight Super Bowls or lose them all. We've been in the Series
four straight years, and only have one World Championship to show for it. There's a little
pressure, if you look at it, the critics' viewpoint of it. But another way of looking at
it is we've gotten this far without 75 home runs and 250 RBI's from Andres and Javy, and
it's -- I've told guys all year, I don't know how we won 103 games. We have a lot of guys
that do a lot of little things right to give us victories. So you can look at it like
we're where we are despite all the stuff we've overcome, and winning is just kind of a
bonus, because the beginning of the year I know we were picked to win the east, and once
all the injuries set in, people said: "Look at the Mets team"; "Look at the
Reds team"; "Look at Houston"; we don't know if the Braves are going to be
there in the end, but we are. I think a lot of people have been doubting us from the
beginning, and in past years, people have just been penciling us into the World Series
back in May. So I don't think we really got that treatment this year. I think we don't
have quite as much to prove.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT