APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 11, 2014
Daniel Nestor
Nenad Zimonjic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







NESTOR‑ZIMONJIC/Bopanna‑Quereshi
  7‑6, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Congratulations on your title.   I believe it's your 83rd, and Nenad it's your 50th.   How are you feeling heading into the Australian Open?
DANIEL NESTOR:   Obviously pretty good.   We accomplished our goal playing a few matches, which is important.   You know, we picked up kind of where we left off playing good.
You know, it's competitive as ever, doubles, and anything can happen obviously.   We're happy about our start. 

Q.   And Nenad, you must be pretty excited about the title tonight?
NENAD ZIMONJIC:   It's always nice to win the title, especially early in the year.   Danny won last week.   For me, the last tournament that I won was in Washington, so it's been a while.
It's, like I said, nice to start with a title.   We didn't need much of, you know, playing together that we get to know each other because we play three and a half years together.
It's nice that we continued.   Last two tournaments that we played we won; this is the third tournament.   It's a great thing that we managed this. 
Like Daniel said, we had really difficult draw here.   Extremely tough opponents and matches. 
We came through, and I thought today was the first match that we played without losing a serve for the whole match.   It was really high level of doubles.   Really happy the way we played. 

Q.   As you said, it was a very close match.   Talk about maybe what was the difference and what got you over the line in the end with two tiebreaks. 
DANIEL NESTOR:   Obviously early hanging on.   We saved a few break points in the first couple service games and then we started playing better.   I maybe felt a little bit slow.   I haven't played a lot of matches and kind of got into it as the match went on and started feeling better and better. 
It was critical obviously hanging on at the beginning, and then once we kind of settled in and got our rhythm we played much better.
It was still a very close match.   I mean, I think the first set they probably deserved to win.   They created more opportunities.   In the second set I thought we were the better team and we clinched it in the end.

Q.   You have won three Grand Slam titles together.   Can you win the Australian?   You haven't won that yet.   Are you confident heating in there?
DANIEL NESTOR:   As I said, this is an ideal start.   We played some matches.   We found our groove playing together again and we're playing well.   Anything can happen.   This is just like any sport.   Come across two guys playing great that day and it's tough. 
You know, we've been at top of the game, but I don't think in doubles is like ‑‑   perhaps the Bryans ‑‑ but it's not Nadal, Djokovic, Murray where there not contested for four, five rounds before they're playing each other.
Double the matches are always relatively very close.   It's tough to feel too confident. 

Q.   Looking on to Melbourne, who would you say your biggest threats are to the title?
NENAD ZIMONJIC:   Heat. 

Q.   Heat?
NENAD ZIMONJIC:   Yes.   No, like Daniel said, anybody there.   There are so many good teams that if you're not playing your best you can lose.
Then again, we're capable of winning against anyone if we're playing our best.   So let's try to do that and see what happens. 
Obviously it would be great if we started with a win in Australia.   It's really far, far away.   We have to win many matches, many big points, like what the doubles is today.   You saw it in this finals match where it was all about the big points, how each team is gonna play the big points.
We managed all four to play extremely well on the big points, protecting our serves, and then it came down to the tiebreaker who would make better shots when it counted the most, and less errors.
We were fortunate today. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT