CHINA OPEN
October 9, 2011
Michael Llorda
Nenad Zimonjic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 LLODRA-ZIMONJIC/Lindstedt-Tecau
      7-6, 7-6 
  
     THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. I wanted to know how do you feel right now?  
     NENAD ZIMONJIC: It feels really great to win such a big tournament as Beijing Open. This is the first time for both of us, and it was nice experience to play in such a nice stadium.  
     I would like to thank Michael for a great week again, and I hope that we can continue the same way in Shanghai.   
  
  Q. You two played very well today. You close match in two sets, 7-6, 7-6. Give some comments on today's match.   
     NENAD ZIMONJIC: They are such a good team, Robert and Horia. They have big serves and they hit the ball really hard. They're two big guys, so it's never easy to play them.   
     This is the second time we played them in the finals. We beat them in Washington and here. Every time was very close. Today I thought we played really well in the tiebreaker and important points.  
     Really happy with the performance today. It's very important obviously to play well in the finals.   
     MICHAEL LLODRA: Thank you very much.   
     THE MODERATOR: No questions? Last chance.   
  
  Q. (Through translation.) Last year you beat Nenad and you have a very good partnership in doubles and have a good record. We are wondering whether next season you will continue such an excellent partnership?  
     MICHAEL LLODRA: Depends. If you play good like this, of course. But sometimes, you know, it's not every time the same.   
     So now I have to put a lot of pressure on Nenad's shoulder to -- you understand, Nenad?   
     NENAD ZIMONJIC: Yeah, yeah.   
  
  Q. Yesterday you beat Bryan brothers. Did you expect to win?   
     NENAD ZIMONJIC: Against them? No, every time when we play a match, doesn't matter who is on the other side, if we play good, I think we have good chances to win.  
     I thought the match against the Bryans was really good. Just that first game on my serve that we lost. After that, I thought we played really well.   
     This year against them we lost first two matches that we played and we won last two. So it's 2-All now. We are playing better and better every week. I hope that we can just continue in the same direction until the end of the season, and then next year as well.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT