ROSE BOWL GAME: IOWA VS STANFORD
December 28, 2015
Desmond King
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Desmond, have you made any decisions about staying, going?  
DESMOND KING: No, still undecided at this point.  Just really trying to focus on this game.  I'll decide when the time comes.   
 Q.  Did you get your NFL evaluation back, and what does that tell you?  
DESMOND KING: No, I haven't yet.  I'm just hoping to see what evaluations they have on me.   
 Q.  Coach said he thought you would hear something from them by the holidays.  Is that just delayed or something?  
DESMOND KING: Yeah, I honestly don't know.  Whenever it comes, then it will be here.   
 Q.  Are you getting tired of those questions?  
DESMOND KING: I mean, not really.  I'm just really just trying to focus on the game as much as I can and try to block out any of the outside noise or the things that they want me to focus on now.  It's just not time for me to think about that right now because we have a very important game coming up this Friday.   
 Q.  How do you deal with not thinking about it, I guess?  It's obviously kind of hovering.  
DESMOND KING: I mean, just like you have the short term memory.  Whenever something comes up, I forget about it as soon as possible and get back to what I need to focus on and what's important.   
 Q.  [Continued...]  
DESMOND KING: Yeah, it's a good thing to have that question be asked, but at the same time, you just don't want to be overwhelmed and distracted with outside noise during the game.   
 Q.  You don't seem like you've ever been that kind of guy?  
DESMOND KING: I've always been a humble guy, stay low, and just very focused.  That's my main passion.  I like to be focused and like to keep my mind on one thing at a time.   
 Q.  As far as awards go, is there anything else that you've had to do to show the league that you're ready?  
DESMOND KING: I would say my main performance in this game.  I hope to show a lot in this game, especially with the opponent that we have, Stanford, and the great players that they have over there.  Just trying to help out my team as much as possible.   
 Q.  It's a great stage for you to make a statement.  I think the Big Ten title game was kind of that way too, and you played really well in that.  
DESMOND KING: Yeah, definitely the Rose Bowl is probably one of the best Bowl games out there.  Like I said, depending on this game, how everything's going to go, and I feel like we've got a good chance.   
 Q.  You said earlier that you were leaning towards returning, and that's what you said.  Are you still leaning towards returning?  
DESMOND KING: Actually, pretty much it's kind of 50-50 right now.  I'm thinking about staying.  There's a good chance.  But right now I honestly don't know what my decision is.  It goes back and forth every time.   
 Q.  What do you lean on?  What are you leaning on to make the decision?  
DESMOND KING: Just the family support I have back home, and whatever's best for me and my family right now.  Even though it's a big part of me being a part of my team, it still comes down to what's best for my family.   
 Q.  Coach Parker, Coach Ferentz, do you lean on them too?  
DESMOND KING: Like I said, family support.  It's all about what my family feels like.  Yeah, mom.  I mean, she wants me to stay.  At the same time, she wants what's best for me.  So it's a 50-50 chance.  I don't know which way I could go with it.  It's pretty hard.   
 Q.  I think you said that would you be the first family member to graduate from college?  
DESMOND KING: Yes, I would be the first family generation to go.   
 Q.  How close are you to being done with school?  
DESMOND KING: I really haven't looked into it yet with any of my on-campus advisors.  I'll probably be looking into that this spring.   
 Q.  What about McCaffrey?  Looking at him on film, what will be your job against him?  On a running play, in running situations?  
DESMOND KING: Just trying to keep him boxed in because we know he's a very exciting back.  He's a very explosive back, and one cut can open a lot of space for him.  He's a very elusive back.  He knows how to make his way around, and he knows how to get in the open field.  That's something that he's done well this season.   
For me, I'm going to have to set the edge and keep him boxed in and not let him outside.   
 Q.  The way Stanford uses its size.  Is there anybody comparable?  
DESMOND KING: They kind of remind me of, I would say, Wisconsin.  Big tight ends, know how to use them out of the backfield, know how to use them at receiver.  I know they're going to use some similar plays that Wisconsin ran against us.  Put the tight end backside by himself and run a dig.  They have the tight ends to do it, and they have the tight ends to go out wide, so I'm expecting it.   
 Q.  What do you have to do to be successful against them?  
DESMOND KING: Just have the best leverage on them and make sure you can play them as tight as you can.  Don't let him get any room where he can get loose on you.   
 Q.  [On stopping the Stanford offense...]  
DESMOND KING: Yeah, definitely.  It's all about the film preparation and what kind of team you're playing against.  They're a heavy run team, but at the same time, they can be dangerous in the pass.  They have the ability to throw the ball deep.   
I saw the coverage receivers they have, and Hogan is a very good quarterback.  He has a strong arm as well.   
 Q.  You said that the way they kind of operate their offense, those calls in the huddle, and they'll go up and check at the line of scrimmage.  Have you seen any keys on film on what he can do in certain situations?  
DESMOND KING: I know I picked out one, but I'm not sure if that's an actual check.  So I'm going to be looking for it in the game, and if it is, then I'll know exactly what's going on.   
 Q.  Don't want to share it, I'm assuming?  
DESMOND KING: No.   
 Q.  When in your mind do you hope to have a decision made by?  
DESMOND KING: The deadline is, I believe, January 18.  So whenever the time comes, when I'm talking it over with my parents and with my coaches at the same time, I believe that's when a decision will come up.   
 Q.  You don't want to put a date on it?  
DESMOND KING: No specific date at this time.   
 Q.  Looking at Stanford, it it going to be hard because they have so many different receiving targets, different sized tight ends and smaller guys?  
DESMOND KING: I believe it's going to be a little hard, but at the same time, it's all about the preparation you put in each week.  This week we have a lot of preparation going through, and what kind of team they're going to be during game day.  We know it's a lot of time for them to prepare as well.  So they might come out with a whole different formation, whole different personnel.  It's either way.  Either way that goes, we just have to be ready for it.   
 Q.  What's the one thing that stood out to you most about Stanford's offense on film?  
DESMOND KING: The O-linemen.  They're very tough.  They get down low.  If you're in the way, they're going to pry you out of the way and try to open the hole up for their running back.   
 Q.  And they like to pull blocks too.  It must not be fun as a defensive back to be the target of big linemen, right?  
DESMOND KING: I'm not going to speak for everybody, but I like it.  I like when guards pull and (indiscernible) and all that.  It's a challenge for me, just knowing that I'm a smart guy, but at the same time, I have a good, big heart, and I know what I can do and the ability that I can come to the table with.   
 Q.  So what is your strategy?  If you see Josh Garnett pulling against you, you're probably not going to take him on size-wise, right?  
DESMOND KING: I took somebody out that size before, my freshman year against LSU, I think his name was Landon Collins, one of the big guards, big tackles.  He did the same thing, and I knocked him over.  We both fell out, if you really want to know.  We both fell out on the ground, but I eliminated him out of the play.   
I'm looking forward to the same thing.  I know he's a big guy, and he's very (indiscernible), as well.  He's a hard-nosed tackle, and he can make something happen.   
 Q.  Is there a certain technique that involves absorbing contact with a bigger guy?  
DESMOND KING: Just have leverage on him.  You have to be the lowest person and make sure you have a good base.  Like our Coach Parker say, you need to have a triangle base, that way you can -- and if the ball bounces outside, you can just go at it.   
 Q.  Winning, how badly do you want that?  
DESMOND KING: I mean, everybody, once you get close to it, it gets harder and harder, but at the same time, I believe it's going to come.  So I'm just waiting on it patiently.  When the time comes, it will be there.   
 Q.  What part of your game are you most proud of that you've developed maybe over time at Iowa?  
DESMOND KING: It's a lot.  There's really a lot.  The communicating on the back end, playing the ball at the highest point, the run game, of course.  There's been a lot over time, just as a freshman to my junior year now, that I've accomplished and improved over, especially playing man-to-man coverage.  Because my freshman year I wasn't very experienced, but now I kind of have everything down pat, and I know what to do.   
 Q.  Do you --  
DESMOND KING: Oh, yeah.   
 Q.  -- in your progressions?  
DESMOND KING: I became a bigger corner, I guess, 200 pounds now, and speed was progressing over the years as well.  I'm just steadily improving.  I'm still improving now.  Never get complacent with yourself.  You're always improving at the same time.   
 Q.  What does Coach Parker, Coach Ferentz talk to you, what do they say you need to work on the most?  
DESMOND KING: Just staying focused, not to take plays off or anything like that.  Like I said, don't ever get complacent on a play or anything.  But like they want me to just stay focused and not kind of take plays off on the field.   
 Q.  How has it been in the return game this year for you developing a comfort level back there?  
DESMOND KING: It's pretty hard starting off, but then I started getting comfortable, more comfortable as the play goes on, and it's getting better.   
 Q.  Still waiting for you to get a touchdown?  
DESMOND KING: Yes.  I feel like it gets closer and closer each game.  Just watching the film on this team, I feel like we have a pretty good chance in the special teams area, both sides, punt return and kick return.  So we'll see what can happen.   
 Q.  [ No microphone ] that return at the end of that game, did that one kind of click for you on the return area  that last scoring drive?  
DESMOND KING: Yeah, it kind of showed me the faith that I have in my blockers and the special teams area that I know that they're going to help me out and try to help out the team to spring a touchdown out there.   
 Q.  Greg Mabin seems like he's had two of his better games the last --  
DESMOND KING: Definitely in the Michigan State game.  He's playing at a high tempo, high level now.  That's what we need out of him if we're going to get the win.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT