NL DIVISION SERIES: BRAVES v CARDINALS
October 2, 2000
Greg Maddux
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Did you assume you would be facing Darryl Kile all along?

GREG MADDUX:  I did not assume everything.  I tried to get ready to face their lineup.  Try to worry about Ankiel just as much as the three, four, five hitters.
 

Q.  He provides another dimension --

GREG MADDUX:  He can hit, he can hit.
 

Q.  What is challenging to you about this lineup?

GREG MADDUX:  Beating them, really. They have a little bit of everything.  They have speed, power, some hit-and-run guys, they can do a little bit of everything.  They can hit the home run and steal a base, get them over, get a man.  They are a very balanced, very experienced   
lineup; that is why they are here.  They won for a reason; their lineup was a big part of it.
 

Q.  Greg, can you sort of put yourself in Rick's shoes tomorrow, as a 21-year-old starting a playoff game, would you have been prepared for that?

GREG MADDUX:  I did it awhile ago.  I don't remember how old I was.  You know, it does not get any easier, that is for sure.
 

Q.  Bobby said, with you guys, obviously the pressure begins in spring training   -- you battle all year, doing it a decade, is there an advantage for you as opposed to St. Louis, with your experience, in this position?

GREG MADDUX:  I don't know if there is an advantage or not.  I think the majority of their players played in postseason one time or another, just like the majority of ours have.  We have a few new guys here, it is their first experience, too.  I don't know if it is an advantage.  It definitely does not work as a disadvantage.  But, you know, if you play good, it was an advantage; if you play bad, it wasn't. I don't think it really matters a whole lot   
either way what happened last year or last ten years.
 

Q.  You say that, it does not matter what happened last year.  As far as the regular season, what took place in early September in your guys match-up, does that weigh in, come into your mind?

GREG MADDUX:  I do not put any stock into it.  During the regular season you play the last place team and get swept; you play the first place team and sweep them.  Anybody can get hot at any time during the season and really beat anybody.  I remember playing the Expos about a month ago, they took, was it, I think it was three out of four from us, next week we go and win the same thing in their park.  I don't put a whole lot of stock into the regular season.
 

Q.  Because of the standard the Braves have set (Inaudible.), is there more pressure on you at this time of year?  It is almost like people expect the Braves (Inaudible)?

GREG MADDUX:  I don't think there is no more or less than four years ago or eight years ago when I first got here.  Playoffs are   
playoffs.  There is not many guys around that were on the team in '90 as opposed to, even go to '95.  The team is totally different.  It is a new year, a new challenge.  We are going to be up for it and come out ready to play, just go out there and play hard.
 

Q.  Do you throw that much better lately or have the results been that much better?

GREG MADDUX:  Probably both.  I have probably thrown better lately than I have earlier.  At the same time, there is a lot of luck involved.  I actually thought I pitched better against the Mets the second time than I did the first time, two totally different results.  But it does not matter.  How I threw last week does not matter; what matters is how we play tomorrow.
 

Q.  (Inaudible.) Yesterday, was that a shock (Inaudible.)

GREG MADDUX:  Bad beat.  We took a bad beat.  It is not the first time.  I think we are pretty -- I think when you win as much as we do, at the same time you also learn how to lose. I think, you know, we took a bad beat.  It is done with.
 

Q.  How much does home field mean in this series?

GREG MADDUX:  I don't know.  I have always thought we played well on the road in postseason.  So, I don't think it matters a whole lot to us.  Obviously, we would like to be in Atlanta right now doing this, but we are not. But, you know, if you win it is not a big deal.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT