WIMBLEDON
June 25, 2002
Myriam Casanova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MYRIAM CASANOVA:  Yeah, I was little nervous first and I played her before and I knew how to play.  Yeah, it's just great with such  -- with many people and you're there.  I didn't know where to look first.  I was on the court first alone, and I didn't know where to look.  Yeah, it's all new.  It's great.  
 
Q.  I've heard that you've got a very good contact with Martina Hingis' mother, Melanie Molitor.  What has she brought to your game?  You've trained with her a long time, you've trained in America.  What does she bring?
 
MYRIAM CASANOVA:  Yeah, she tells me all the things tactically and technical.  But, yeah, it's just better for tactic.  And, yeah, she always  -- I call her before my matches in the evening and ask her what to do against my opponent, and she can tell me many things.  
 
Q.  You also play the Juniors tournaments.  If you were to be in the tournament next week, which one would you choose? 
 
MYRIAM CASANOVA:  Yeah, Wimbledon main draw (laughing).  Sure.  
 
Q.  Do you think if you did very well in the main draw, Melanie would come?  Because Martina, I think, has her own life now. 
 
MYRIAM CASANOVA:  I don't know, because I think Martina is coming back to Switzerland.  Maybe she will there practice, she will start to practice again.  I don't know.  I can't say.  But I hope I can win the next match and we don't have to think about next week.  
 
Q.  Next match is Barbara Schett, Austria.  Do you know her? 
 
MYRIAM CASANOVA:  No, I saw her maybe one or two times, but I didn't realize her game.  But I ask also other Swiss players like Patty Schnyder, and she told me things about her, yeah.  
 
Q.  You had a brilliant second set.  Now is that your usual way of playing?  You really were aggressive. 
 
MYRIAM CASANOVA:  Yeah, I always try to be aggressive because also on grass it's  -- you can't have long rallies like on clay, 20, 30 times.  You have to be aggressive and go to the point, to try to make the point first.  I always try to be the first who makes the point to give her pressure.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT