U.S. AMATEUR FOUR-BALL CHAMPIONSHIP
May 25, 2016
Ben Baxter
Andrew Buchanan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Seems like when you guys started getting your momentum was when you've got a little bit of relief there off the practice green.  Tell me about that shot?  
BEN BAXTER: Yeah, I had a pretty good number.  It was 83 yards, and that's normally just my 9:00 o'clock sand wedge.  It was a little bit off of an uphill slope, so I gave it a little bit of extra juice and happened to spin left and trickle down to about three feet, but it all started with Andrew's birdie on 9.  That was huge, just to get -- did we win that hole?   
 Q.  Yeah.  
BEN BAXTER: Yeah, we won that hole, and that was big, and then we tied 10 with birdie, and then we both hit it to about four feet on 11, and I just happened to tap it in first.   
 Q.  What did you hit on 11?  
BEN BAXTER: I hit a pitching wedge from the rough and he had a 50-degree.  That was pretty big.  And then we got to 12 --   
 Q.  Andrew, tell us about the greenside bunker shot that you hit today.  
ANDREW BUCHANAN: Yeah, 12 was good.  Ben went down the left.  I hit it up there greenside in two, and joking with Duane the whole week that I've hit it in a ton of bunkers that he's gotten to rake, but I hit good bunker shots, so we just kept doing that, and he said that 12 was a good leave to get it in any of those bunkers, so I had a pretty free run at it.   
 Q.  And you had about an eight-footer on 15; how did you read that one?  
BEN BAXTER: Yeah, Andrew had the same putt from about 30, 40 feet, and I saw his go a little left to right and straight at the end, so I just played my a touch out on the left, and happened to take the break early and just rolled dead straight.   
 Q.  And here on 17 you hit a 6-iron?  
BEN BAXTER: Yeah, 6-iron to tap-in range, so that was certainly a nice way to end.   
 Q.  It's a hard 3 but even an harder 2.  
BEN BAXTER: Yeah, yeah, exactly.   
 Q.  It was an even harder conceded 2.  
BEN BAXTER: Yeah.   
 Q.  What was the conversation when you guys were 4 down?  
ANDREW BUCHANAN: I mean, yeah, it sucks, but we said they were going to make six birdies today, and it doesn't matter if they come in their first six holes or their last six holes.  I mean, we knew that --   
BEN BAXTER: They got really hot early, then what did we birdie, 9, 10, 11, 12, 15, 16 and 17?  Yeah, seven birdies.  We said they were going to make six, and that if we made seven we would beat them.   
So yeah, we were down through 8 without any birdies, but neither one of us felt like we were playing bad.  We kept -- I don't know, I just feel like the diet of the mind thing is still in my mind, and we've just been saying the whole week, like we're going to win this match.  It sounds stupid almost to say that when you're 4-down through 8 holes --   
ANDREW BUCHANAN: It just gives you something to believe in, if anything.   
 Q.  You never had any doubts when you got through 8 and you were still 4 down?  
ANDREW BUCHANAN: No, like I wasn't too worried.  They played unbelievable for the first -- they made three birdies.  That's really good out here.   
 Q.  Have you had an aggressive mindset?  
BEN BAXTER: It hasn't been aggressive or conservative.  It doesn't really -- like we use a system that no matter what the situation is, if you're 4-down, 4-up with four to play, you're going to hit it to your spot, and that's just the spot that you go with, and so we've been doing that the whole week.  Yeah, it doesn't matter if he's in there at two feet, like I'm still going to be playing to the exact same spot.  I'm going to be like, oh, I'm so freed up now, I'm just going to go right at it, because that's when we've made our worst things this week.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT