U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 23, 2008
Adam Mitchell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DAVE FANNUCHI: For media still in the room we are here with Adam Mitchell, a semifinalist today here at the U.S. Amateur Championship, who was defeated by Drew Kittleson 4 & 2. Your initial thoughts, Adam, on the match. 
 ADAM MITCHELL: Just didn't make many putts today. Hit some good shots, had some good opportunities, but just didn't fall.
 DAVE FANNUCHI: You said just before we got in here that the putting was the difference in the match, Drew made more putts than you did and you both struck the ball fairly consistently and well.
 ADAM MITCHELL: I feel like we both hit the ball really well. He'd hit it in the fairway and I would hit it in the fairway or I would and then he would. We would hit the ball on the green. He just seemed to make a couple more of those 10 to 15 footers. 
 DAVE FANNUCHI: You had a 2-up lead and it slipped away, he birdied the 7th to get it back to all square, then you had a 1-up lead and it was all square again after nine. He birdies 10, the par-5, to go 1-up and you said the critical point was 11, where you let one get by on a short putt.
 ADAM MITCHELL: I hit it in the wire grass over to the right and I hit a great shot on the green to about 12, 15 feet. And I knew exactly what the putt did, I just pulled it. And it went by about three and a half, four feet. 
 And I missed the comeback and he had a 10-footer for birdie also, but he, that he could have made, but he ended up missing that as well. So I made bogey there. 
 DAVE FANNUCHI: You had a great shot on hole number 4, another eagle, I think two days in a row now you spun one in from the fairway. Talk about that shot. 
 ADAM MITCHELL: Just had 109 to the hole it was a little into the breeze, tried to play about 115 and hit it right at it, landed about four feet long, and I knew it was going to be close. And I was walking up the fairway and I just kept it just kept tricking back and back and went right in. So it was kind of exciting. 
 DAVE FANNUCHI: Obviously losing today, getting so close to the U.S. Amateur Championship is disappointing, talk about your overall feelings for the week and what you're going to remember.
 ADAM MITCHELL: It was a great week. Just really hard to win this golf tournament. It's a lot of golf you have to play, it's not your average four day event. 
 Just you got to be patient with yourself and just know that it's never over until it's over. 
 DAVE FANNUCHI: Questions from the media. 

 Q. When you said how hard it is to win this tournament, now just try to put in perspective what Tiger did when he won three U.S. Juniors and three Amateurs in a row. What, I mean, how difficult, I mean how impossible is that?
 ADAM MITCHELL: That's really hard. Especially in match play. You got to play two rounds of medal play and then one, two, three, I mean six, you got to win six times to get in the finals. It's hard to win the whole thing. It's just a tough, a lot of golf and you got to be on your game and you got to have a lot of good breaks and make a lot of putts. 

 Q. Would you say that's like one of those records that probably will never be broken?
 ADAM MITCHELL: Oh, yeah. Well --

 Q. That's why I said probably. 
 ADAM MITCHELL: Probably, yeah. No way. No way. Never will. I bet nobody will ever win two again in a row. 
 DAVE FANNUCHI: Last question, if no one else has any, we got one in the back, but unfortunately you both Bulldogs went down today.
 ADAM MITCHELL: Yeah, I was disappointed in that. But at least shows how good our team is going to be this year. We have two guys in the final four and one is an incoming freshman and we're not even losing anybody this year. So that just says a lot about the depth of our team and how good we're going to be. 

 Q. I appreciate your attitude, young man. 
 ADAM MITCHELL: Oh, thank you very much. Thank you. 

 Q. Can you talk about when you thought the momentum of the match kind of took a turn because it looked like you were smooth sailing there early this morning and then it just kind of went the other way?
 ADAM MITCHELL: I birdied 8. Finally made a decent putt. 
 And on 9 I thought I had a great yardage and I hit a great swing I thought it was going to go right at it, it was going right at it, it just, I guess it's just playing a little shorter today. And it went over the green and ended up giving him the hole fairly easy way there. 
 He made the birdie on 10. 
 And then on 11 it was a big turning point, just, I hit a great shot in there and had to walk a way with 3-putting that hole is disappointing and that kind of put me 2-down and I kept just going at it, kept trying to chip away and just kept couldn't make any putts. 
 Especially on 13 I was right there short of the green in two and didn't hit a great first putt from below the green and I thought I hit a great second putt, just didn't go in. 

 Q. Speaking of putts, when you're on the greens with Drew, I mean did it take you out of your game out of your rhythm with the way he prepares for putts? Just it kind of get you a little out of your rhythm?
 ADAM MITCHELL: No, not really. Some people play fast, some people play slow. It's kind of just what happens when you play with a lot of guys playing golf. Some guys fly, some guys just take, are really slow. So you can't let that bother you, you got to worry about your own game. Worry about what you do and what makes you play your best golf. 
 DAVE FANNUCHI: Congratulations again this week, Adam on a terrific showing hear at the U.S. Amateur.
 ADAM MITCHELL: Thank you. Appreciate it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT