U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 22, 2008
Adam Mitchell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DAVE FANUCCHI: We are here with Adam Mitchell in the media. Give you a minute. Adam Mitchell, a quarterfinal winner 2 & 1. Adam, let's get right into the match. You're 1-up going to 17, talk about the clinching hole.
 ADAM MITCHELL: Charlie hit a great, what I thought was a great shot. He hit it right at it. I thought he was going to be pretty close and he ended up long and rolling off the back edge. 
 And I was in between a six and a seven and couldn't makeup my mind. Ended up going with a 7-iron and I hit it and blocked it just a little bit, but it went right into the middle of the green, just right center of the green. 
 And he didn't hit that great of a chip and my putt from 20, 25 feet was going looked great, it came up one revolution short. And he ended up missing his and kind of ended things right there.
 DAVE FANUCCHI: You were 2-down through six and I guess holes seven eight and nine were critical turning point in your match. Describe that and especially the chip in that got, that swung the momentum your way on seven.
 ADAM MITCHELL: Yeah, I didn't get up-and-down on six, I was 2-down and it really wasn't panicking just yet, but still was a little unnerved or, you know, wasn't happy with myself. 
 But on seven I hit an awful drive and hit it up in the fairway and had about 40 yards to the green and I told my dad I was going to land it just short and I was going to take one hop and roll right to it. And I did it just like I planned. Went right in the middle. And I went from 3-down to 1-down, really, you know, in one instant. And that kind of helped me, I used that to help me on number eight. 
 I hit it right down the middle and I pulled it a little bit, but the wind was coming from the left and then ended up going about four feet away and made the birdie there. And I was all of a sudden I was all square. 
 And then on nine I hit a good shot right at it, and an okay chip. And Charlie hit it on the green and his first putt went to about three and a half feet. I had about a 5-footer for par and I made mine and he missed his. And right there I was 1-up. And I just held on from there. 
 DAVE FANUCCHI: Congratulations again on the win, talk really about your feelings now in the semifinals for the U.S. Amateur Championship.
 ADAM MITCHELL: Oh, wow, it's an honor to be here and it's pretty cool. It's special. It's very special. It's awesome. Excited. 
 DAVE FANUCCHI: Getting here this week is this a place you envisioned yourself coming in here on Monday.
 ADAM MITCHELL: Oh, without a doubt. You go into every tournament you got to think have you a chance to win, you're not just playing to make the cut or playing to do this, you're playing to win. And I was, I saw myself being here, but I'm very excited to be here. 
 DAVE FANUCCHI: Potentially against another incoming Bulldog, Patrick Reed. Talk about a potential teammate of yours, two Georgia Bulldogs in the final four.
 ADAM MITCHELL: That's pretty cool. That's really really cool. That shows how awesome our team is and just the depth of our team and how good of a season we're going to have this year. 
 DAVE FANUCCHI: Then taking on a Florida State Seminole tomorrow in Kittleson. Do you know much about him? 
 ADAM MITCHELL: We played together the first round of the Porter Cup and he was a very nice guy and we're going to have a lot of fun tomorrow. So it should be fun. 
 DAVE FANUCCHI: Open to questions from the media. 

 Q. Do you want to talk about your eagle?
 ADAM MITCHELL: Yeah, it was on hole 11. I had, there was a ridge that I wanted to carry, it was 152 yards away, and I was just straight down wind, so I was just hit kind of a regular driver, a wedge there. And started out a little right and the wind took it a little left and it hit on the green and somehow just trickled in, I guess. 
 I thought it was over, I couldn't tell. And I had though idea then I heard a bunch of yells and I guess it went in. I was pretty, it was pretty cool. Very exciting. 

 Q. Either you or your teammate can win the U.S. Amateur or Georgia can win the national championship, what are you taking?
 ADAM MITCHELL: Ouch. Wow. Oh, my gosh. That is about the hardest question you could ask me right now. I would have to go with the U.S. Amateur. I mean it's fun to have your football team win, but I guess it would be really cool to have a Georgia Bulldog win the U.S. Amateur. That would be really cool. That would be something special. 

 Q. Since Ben Hogan called it the hardest hole at Pinehurst and you made an eagle on it, what do you think about that?
 ADAM MITCHELL: That's kind of cool. That's something I can take home with me, I guess. Yeah, it's the hardest fairway out there to hit. It's very narrow and it's slanting to the right. It's very, very narrow. That's pretty cool. That's special.

 Q. That's history. 
 ADAM MITCHELL: Yeah. That's cool. Really cool. 

 Q. Is there a particular thought process that you have going around the course and how you're trying to play it? Are you trying to be aggressive at certain holes? What's your philosophy with how you're trying to play the course?
 ADAM MITCHELL: Well, first I just try to get the ball in the fairway. The rough can get some spots really brutal and really thick and you're forced to just lay it up almost. And so that's the first thing first. 
 And then from there on you're just trying to pick spots on the greens and eliminate the trouble, like a lot of the greens out there it's dead to go long. And a lot of preparation I've done was just to make sure I've taken numbers that will eliminate long. And you kind of just pick and choose where your misses are and the good spots to miss and just kind of get there from there. 

 Q. Can you talk about the, you talked about going into number seven you could have gone 3-down and then you were 1-down. The need not to panic. You know, do you find that hard to do when you're down?
 ADAM MITCHELL: Yeah, it's hard, but I guess you got to keep telling yourself you're just trying to play golf. You just, you're going to have to worry about your own game because you can't control, I couldn't control what Charlie did. He couldn't control what I did. So I was just trying to make, trying to get up-and-down and make par and if he made par I halved the hole. If he made bogey great, if he made birdie, great. I just try to worry about my own game. 
 And it's hard to do that when he's out there perfect in really good position and I'm sitting back here almost in the woods and but you have to, you just have to keep that mindset. 

 Q. From Chattanooga, how do you, this particular course No. 2 fabled course, are there any courses in Chattanooga like The Honors Course or Bear Trace or any of those that prepare you to play this course?
 ADAM MITCHELL: Well the week coming in I practiced a lot at Chattanooga Country Club, it's an old Donald Ross course, they have redone it, but there's a lot of similarities of runoffs off the greens and I try to practice my chipping and my bumping through the fringes and stuff like that. Just to get prepared and just get a sense of what it was going to be like out here. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT