U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 21, 2008
Adam Mitchell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  PETE KOWALSKI: Like to welcome another quarter finalist from the University of Georgia and by the way of Chattanooga, Tennessee, Adam Mitchell 5 & 4 winner over Rickie Fowler. Okay, first of all, let's talk about the fact that you beat the Ben Hogan Award winner.  
 ADAM MITCHELL: Oh, yeah. I forgot about that.   
 PETE KOWALSKI: I guy who is on a lot of people's radar. Tell us how that feels and doing it on the stage at the U.S. Amateur.   
 ADAM MITCHELL: I totally forgot. I know he's a great player, I forgot that he's done all that, because we're such good friends, really. And we just had a good time. And prior stuff we had done was just in the past, we were just living for the moment, we were having a great time together, enjoying each other's company.   
 But it's nice, Ricky's a great player, he's got all the shots, he's got all the game. And I just played really well today and did what I had to do and I just forced Rickie to hit a lot of good shots. And fortunately for me he didn't make many putts today.   
 PETE KOWALSKI: It looks like that there weren't a lot of mistakes on your card.  
 ADAM MITCHELL: Yeah, I had two bogeys on the 11th hole and the final hole, the 14th hole. And I just kept putting myself in chances to make birdies. I gave myself a lot of birdie chances, I never was out of the hole.   
 I just gave myself a lot of birdie putts. I didn't make some, but being on the green and being, having a chance for birdie kind of forced Rickie, especially when I got ahead a little bit, because he knew he had to, he knew he had to make birdies to beat me, because I was on the green constantly and having birdie putts.   
 So I think that that also kind of helped me in the victory.   
 PETE KOWALSKI: Questions?   
  
  Q. Just considering like where you were two, three years ago, and then you get to this summer, you win Porter Cup, now you're a quarter finalist at the U.S. Amateur, kind of just put that in perspective for me.   
 ADAM MITCHELL: It's been great. It's been a great last month or month and a half or however long it's been since the Porter Cup. I played really well, I just gained a lot of confidence knowing that I can play with these guys and not necessarily play, but win.   
 Winning the Porter Cup helps. You try to get better every day and Tiger always says that he likes to get better every day. But I guess you don't know you're getting better until you go out and beat your competition. You might be posting better numbers and your numbers might be better, but are you really getting better, you don't know unless you're playing and wining or beating everybody, beating your competitors. And that's what this summer and the last month has been really fun. Especially match play, it's head to head, one-on-one and you have to go out and beat somebody.   
  
  Q. You did pretty good today, as far as what 4 & 3 and 5 & 4. So you didn't, at least you made it at least short matches of it. Which has got to feel good.   
 ADAM MITCHELL: Yeah, it does. Definitely. Not to play 36 is also fun, but I mean it is also relieving, but, yeah, I mean not playing, just playing well enough that I didn't have to take it all the way to 18 or even extra holes like some matches are going and have that, that really helps and helps with your stamina and that.  
  
  Q. Probably just your mental outlook?  
 ADAM MITCHELL: Yeah, exactly, it gives you more confidence, but you also can go the other way with having too much confidence, then if you do that, you go the other way and you might not practice, might not do the things you should be doing that's gotten where you are. You still got to do the things that you do that help you get better that help me win matches.  
  
  Q. How good is it having your dad on your bag?  
 ADAM MITCHELL: It's great. It's awesome. That day at the final round of the Porter Cup when he showed up and surprised me, I had no clue he was coming. And went out and shot a 1-under, I guess and won. And that was awesome.   
 And then just he caddied for me in the qualifier for this and that was great.   
 And then all day, all through out this whole tournament it's been awesome. We have, today we had a great time. We had a lot of fun.   
  
  Q. I'm sure he was glad they were short matches too.   
 ADAM MITCHELL: Yeah, he was like, he would tell me he was just joking with me, he's like riding up here from the 14th hole he was like, "We played 29, but I'm not sure I could have gone 30."   
 (Laughter.)   
  
  Q. How concerned, if any, were you when on when Rickie won those two holes in a row to cut it back to four?  
 ADAM MITCHELL: I mean, I didn't really play that bad on those two holes, so I really wasn't concerned. I made birdie on 10. He made great eagle. I mean, I was rooting for him to make eagle because, yeah, I was like, hey, if you get beat by an eagle, that's awesome. I mean, you know it was fun to see that. I was like, God, an eagle, I mean there's nothing you can do there.   
 Then on 11, he hit a great shot from the trees. That's what is so great about him he can be anywhere and he just hit an awesome shot. And that's what makes Rickie so good. And from the rough and that you always have to watch out for him because of that.   
 And I played that hole well, I hit a good, what I thought was a good second shot, just went way over the green. I thought I hit a great third putt too. But I left it short. I hit a great putt. I wasn't concerned, I knew I played those two holes well. I know it was my first bogey of the day but it's really hard to go around No. 2 without a bogey. So I wasn't like pressured or anything, I was under pressure, but I wasn't like forcing anything. I knew about it, I had to play my game, again give myself a lot of birdie chances and force him to make birdies.   
  
  Q. What do you do tonight to get ready for tomorrow?  
 ADAM MITCHELL: Just have some dinner and go to bed early. I don't even know what time we go tomorrow. But just get some rest, today was a long day and just take a shower, definitely.   
 PETE KOWALSKI: Adam, you have a confidence about you, but it's not overwhelming, it's kind of a quiet confidence, is that, do you think, an accurate description of yourself?   
 ADAM MITCHELL: Yes, sir. I would say so, definitely. I try not to get too, almost too confident, like we talked about. I know what I'm very confident, you got to be confident to play at this high level, because if you doubt yourself, just a little bit of doubt will cause you to hit a bad shot or two. And you always got to be confident, confident swings and, but I like to have that little quiet confidence, I don't -- it's not my style, I guess.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT