TOSTITOS FIESTA BOWL: OHIO STATE v TEXAS
January 2, 2009
Colt McCoy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		   COLT MCCOY: There are a lot of players in Texas. It is a challenge.

 Q. Do you think the way USC played last night that it might help you in the sense that it might have created some doubt, two best teams are Oklahoma and Florida. 
 COLT MCCOY: We are not focused on any of that. USC played a great game. They did. Hats off to them. We have to do the same thing. We want to go out and play the best game we have played all year. That's all you can do. You can let the media work things out the way they want and voters decide what they want.
 All we can do is play the game. We don't focus on anything else other than ourselves. What goals we have for ourselves and what we can do about them, that's to go out and play the best game we can play.

 Q. They are in a situation where it is a little bit different. They are disappointed not to play you guys. You are probably disappointed not to be playing Florida. They came out and played with such enthusiasm and excitement. If they weren't happy to be there, it is hard to tell. 
 COLT MCCOY: How can you not be excited about playing in the Rose Bowl. That's one of the greatest games there is. They did what they should have done and that's to go out and play the best game they could play. I think that's every team's goal, is to go out and prepare for a month, however long you have the best that you can in order to play the best game you can play.
 The thing USC did, they took care of the ball. They came out and played with a lot of passion and energy. 

 Q. Why do you think Ohio State has had such a lack of success on the big-stage games that they have played in the last few years? 
 COLT MCCOY: I have no idea. Ohio State is a great football team. I know they will play very well against us. They have a great coaching staff. We watched them on defense. They are very physical and tough. They are well-disciplined. It is going to be a great matchup.

 Q. Can you talk about what it was like maybe in the week or so after you realized you weren't going to the Big 12 game, you weren't playing in the championship game, coming to terms with that, was it difficult? What did you do to get over it? 
 COLT MCCOY: We were disappointed. We're human. We felt like we had done the things we needed to do to be able to be in the Big 12 championship. We had beaten both teams. 
 There is a little bit of feeling of disappointment but at the same time you got to put it behind you. I told somebody earlier, we have a great leadership on this football team, great coaching staff. We have the ability to put it behind us and say, hey, we can't change that, let's look forward to playing in the Fiesta Bowl. Let's look forward to playing our best game all year long because that's all we can do as a football team. That's our goal. 

 Q. For you personally, what were the biggest factors in your decision to come back for another year to play next year? 
 COLT MCCOY: There is so many factors that can play into that. I think every player has to look into that. I think every player should because I think that's the next level. That's what every player wants to get to. For me, God has given me a lot of ability. He has given me the opportunity to play for Texas and play for four years. I can come back and get an education. I love my teammates and coaches. All those things play into it. The NFL will be there for a long time if that's what I am supposed to do, if I have an opportunity and it works out.

 Q. Is it almost like a process, the Alamo Bowl, Holiday Bowl, first BCS, next year --
 COLT MCCOY: That all comes with your teammates, how well your team is. Make sure you have good coaches. What you do to get to that point, the hard work, the preparation that goes into it, so our goal right now, our focus is winning the Fiesta Bowl. We're here. We want to play the best game we have played all year. We've prepared so far and now it is kind of polishing up, getting ready. We will see what happens.

 Q. How happy for are you for Jordan and all he has been through? 
 COLT MCCOY: Extremely happy. He has fought through so much. The injuries he had, a lot of guys would have hung their hat and said "it's been great." 
 He is so determined. He wanted to be the best and he fought through two years of injuries and this year he has finally been fully healthy and done a great job.

 Q. Do you remember times when he was down and how you had to talk him through it? Or what would you say to him when he was not playing? 
 COLT MCCOY: I have been his roommate for a long time. I know his ups and downs, highs and lows. It was a struggle. It was tough. Just for him to fight through it to keep going shows his determination and shows he wanted to do something for this football team. He is definitely coming through this year. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT