CHICK-FIL-A PEACH BOWL: LSU VS OKLAHOMA
December 26, 2019
Alex Grinch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What do you see in that LSU offense and how do you try to slow the train down?
ALEX GRINCH: Well, "slow" is the right word because you're not going to stop those guys. Obviously from a personnel -- just strictly personnel, they're as elite as you're going to have in the country. They've got one of everything, and they've got multiple of some. And so in any event, what we need to do is commit to the things that got us here, worry about us, and it's coach-speak, but it's true. Worry about us, we'll coach our guys, and put them in the best situation to be successful. They make their plays, we've got to make ours, and that's the gist of it. And expect them to make theirs, and once again, we expect our guys to make our share, as well.
Q. What's the first thing you try to take away when you try to game plan an LSU offense? Obviously they're so multifaceted.
ALEX GRINCH: Right. So often what we do regardless of opponent is okay, how do we defend the run. How do we stop the run. If a team can just march down the field, whether it's chunk plays or three yards and a cloud of dust, regardless it's making sure that guys can't just pound and run. So that's number one. Despite their throwing prowess.
But making sure we're covering up receivers, making sure that we're going to take air from a space standpoint, take the air out between defenders and receivers, running backs and those things, to make them complete passes in tight windows, which is easier said than done. That's a real challenge for us, but that's something that you look at.
Q. You touched on Joe Burrow. What kind of challenges does he bring both with his arms and with his legs?
ALEX GRINCH: He has everything. He has every tool that's necessary to be an elite quarterback at our level. He beats you with his legs, he beats you with his arm.
Q. We know that Joe Burrow is really good at what he does, playing quarterback. That's been well documented this year. Give us an idea of what it's been like preparing for this LSU offense.
ALEX GRINCH: Well, I think what you can't do is be so naïve to think, well, if you get lined up in a certain formation and minimize what -- anything they do from a schematic standpoint. You know there's an elite guy calling plays, so a lot of respect for the coaching staff. There's an elite signal caller in Joe, and then elite weapons all around them. There's 11 guys out there. It's one of the -- I say 11 guys, I mean 11 dudes. There's a guy at every position that is an elite player, so there's no deficiencies that way.
So just, again, to somehow be naïve and say, okay, that's just this formation of just this play or they're running that play, now we're going to have to find a way to get him on the ground, no, we know we're going to have to meet the challenge.
Q. You came from Ohio State. When did you think you had a group that had a chance to be pretty good? I think you were topping the Big 12 in all the major categories, so mission accomplished, but when did you know this group had a chance?
ALEX GRINCH: Well, I think in some ways you don't know until you kind of hit adversity, you get punched in the mouth against Kansas State middle of the year, and it presented an opportunity for us. We take over a job in January, there's a real stretch of time where you're not playing games. So much of it is theory, these are the things we're going to do, and then you get into the season and you start executing some things, and I think guys from a confidence standpoint started to rise. I think their expectation of how they play started to rise, and they deserved to do so.
But so much of what you do in this sport, unfortunately, comes in the wake of getting punched in the face. So I just felt after that kind of the response of guys having an understanding that to -- we don't want to go backwards, and I think a lot of those guys, there was that moment of saying, all right, we're on the right track. Let's make sure that we're not taking two steps forward and one step back. So I kind of referenced the games in the wake of that where I feel like real progress was being made.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT