A MILITARY TRIBUTE AT THE GREENBRIER
September 14, 2019
Richy Werenski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Good position heading into the final round in the season opener. How did the course play today?  
RICHY WERENSKI: Played good. Starting to firm up a little bit now, which is good. I've played the last couple years and it's kind of the same deal where it's a little softer Thursday, Friday and plays a little tougher on the weekend. Tucked some pins and it's a little firmer.   
So I kind of knew that going into it. Kind of talked to my caddie about it first before the round, so it was just we're it really well. Let's not fire at anything too crazy. Worked out.   
 Q.  Been a kind of crazy past couple months for you. Outside of the number going into the playoffs for the PGA Tour, and then you were inside the number for the Korn Ferry Tour finals to regain your TOUR card. What have these few months been like for you?  
RICHY WERENSKI: It's been busy. Yeah. It is what it is. Obviously I would've liked to finish 125 and get a little bit of a break. You got to do what you got to do. Went to the finals and made it a little closer than I wanted it there, but snuck in.   
Now I can only shuffle up, which is good. I got a whole category to shuffle up, and hopefully have a good fall and keep working my way up.   
 Q.  By doing that, you played a ton of golf in the last couple months. I think I counted eight of the last ten weeks. How has that been beneficial?  
RICHY WERENSKI: It's good. Keeps you sharp, like golf-course sharp. I play good when I'm playing a lot of golf anyway, but gets tiring. You got to manage your time. You figure out how to do it obviously. This is start of year four for me, so kind of know a little bit how to deal with that now.   
But, yeah, just managing your time. It's definitely helped keep me pretty sharp.   
 Q.  I know you would've liked to have been in the top 125, but another good break today because you missed the rain. That's a nice omen as well.  
RICHY WERENSKI: Yeah, just barely. Just snuck it.   
 Q.  Was this golf course harder than it's been the last couple days?  
RICHY WERENSKI: Yeah, it definitely was. A little firmer today. It was also -- it started to blow pretty good on the back. Holes like I guess 14, 13, 14 that have been pretty easy; today they were definitely a little tougher conditions.   
Yeah, it was good. I played good. Course was solid. Just kind of played smart and kind of took what I got.   
 Q.  It's been a long year. Didn't have much of a break having to go back through the Korn Ferry Tour finals. How is your attitude right now and how is your stamina?  
RICHY WERENSKI: It's pretty good actually. I'm pretty tired, but finishing where I'm at in this reshuffle, this category, I don't know what I'll get into this fall; figure I'll probably get at least five.   
I'm kind of going into it with the attitude I'm going to play when I get in and not going to kill myself trying to Monday and whatnot. I've been playing a lot, so I feel like I have enough confidence in myself to know I'll get it done. Just kind of take what I get.   
 Q.  Going to be pretty close to the lead going into Sunday. You've had plenty of experience out here on the TOUR. Anything different you'll do going into the final round?  
RICHY WERENSKI: Not really. I think I'm going to try to continue what I did today. First couple days I didn't hit the ball really well and I've been putting well all week, which is good.   
Today I kind of had a nice little swing thought. Just on the range this morning just kind of started thinking of some tempo, super simple stuff, and hit it a lot better today. Just kind of build on that for tomorrow.   
 Q.  The more you play the sharper you are golf course-wise was the sentiment, I think. Are you as sharp with other aspects mentally? It gets tiring?  
RICHY WERENSKI: Yeah, no, it definitely does. I just feel like after the final, the last Korn Ferry final event, just going into that week I had like a -- I don't want to say an epiphany, but just like, Hey, man just chill out, relax. I know I'm good enough. Don't beat yourself up thinking, Oh, what if you finish here? What if you finish there? What am I going to get into this fall?   
Like you just can't. That stuff will tear you up mentally. Kind of just going with the flow right now. It's actually kind of refreshing. Feels good.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT