NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINAL: SHARKS v BLUES
May 24, 2016
Paul Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: Questions for Paul Martin. 

Q. (No microphone.)
PAUL MARTIN: I think it's high. I think last game was a big game for us. We needed to establish our presence, how we want to play a game. What makes our team successful, even though we didn't have the start, we were down one, then down two early, to claw back and play our game, stick with it, show that character that I think we have, the depth I think we have.
To be able to go into the third and score early was huge. To be able to fight them off, that's a good team over there. Coming hard at the end to find a way to get the win. 
I think that's something that the next one will be even harder. It will be their best game. We'll have to know that and match that level early on. 

Q. Did you learn any lessons the last home game, got ahead early? Anything you can take into this one?
PAUL MARTIN: Sure. I think we just need to be better early. Most importantly, you know, they were able to capitalize on a couple of their opportunities with execution. I think we had some chances in that game, but maybe we didn't execute the way we normally would have to stay in that game, or at least keep it close for longer than it was, or be down a deficit in the third when we had to play with a little more desperation, which we'll need to do next game, considering the circumstances. 

Q. How is it different when you're facing a team that if they lose, they're out? What does that desperation look like on the ice?
PAUL MARTIN: I think as a player, from experience, you're trying to do whatever you can to help your team win: block shots, get pucks out, take the body, put pucks to the net. It's just one of those things it's tough to explain. It's just a feeling that you know your season is riding on that one game, that one shift. 
I think with the way that the games go, you see that certain mistakes can cost you a game, little parts of the game. It's one of those things that you prepare yourself to play the best team game you can. We rely on the guys that we have to go out and match what they have and find ways to get the job done. 

Q. I'd be anxious and excited, one game away from the Final. Maybe that's why I'm not an NHL player. What is it like? 
PAUL MARTIN: A lot of guys handle it differently. The biggest thing about this team is we've come a long way as far as ups and downs, how we like to play, the mood that we're in when we're playing at our best. 
We have a lot of great leadership on this team, guys that set that tone, with Jumbo and Patty and Pavs. You guys were talking about them earlier. Some other guys with Martin Jones coming, Joel Ward, guys that have been in the playoffs, played in big games. 
I think there's always ways to keep it light. There's a calmness that goes across the group. We're not too uptight. I think we play better hockey when we're just playing and making sure that guys are not thinking the game as much as far as just relying on their instincts and playing the game. I think a lot of guys go out and do that.
It starts with our leaders. When they play that way, it trickles down to everybody else.

Q. What are the ways you keep it light? Is it an atmosphere in the locker room?
PAUL MARTIN: I guess it's hard to really pinpoint. There's an intensity there that's always there. We know what we need to do to win. Everyone is focused on their own game, what they need to bring to the table to help us win. 
At the same time Jumbo or guys are chatting, making sure we're loose, what's expected of each guy. At the same time, there's music playing, guys are having fun. You have to enjoy the experience. There's nothing like it. To be too uptight; you have to have fun with it. 
To come this far and have this opportunity is huge. I don't think it's one of those things we take for granted or take lightly, yeah. 

Q. What do you admire most about Vlasic's game?
PAUL MARTIN: Pickles, he doesn't get a lot of credit. Sometimes when you don't say a lot about a guy, it just means he's doing his job very well. That's kind of what I notice about him. He always seems to be in the right position and have the stick on puck. He's so good at coming out of his own end. 
Him and Brauner have really established themselves as a solid shut‑down pair. They play off each other really well and use each other to their advantage. 
I think with him, he's one of the all‑around better defensemen in the league. He has that ability there, too, which we saw last game, which is big. 

Q. (No microphone.)
PAUL MARTIN: For me, it was short. As we all know, different kind of free‑agency period with a lot of the signings, the way a lot of things went. 
For me on my end, it was trying to find a couple teams that I thought had the potential to win, which is big for me, or the most important thing for me, where they still have that opportunity. 
Knowing Burnsy and Pavelski a little bit, Burnsy from Minnesota, and Pavs from some Olympic teams, and the core group of guys they have here that have come so close. So speaking with Doug, he thinks we're right there. I think missing the playoffs last year only sets that fire to have that desire burn even brighter to get there. They've obviously proven they can win games and get close. They just needed to find a way to get over the hump. 
I think Doug did such a great job with the pieces he added. Joel has been great. Martin Jones obviously. As far as GMs of the year, I don't know why he was mentioned. I thought he did a phenomenal job this summer as far as putting a team together and having it gel with new guys and a new coaching staff.
Credit to Pete and those guys, too, for the system, the way they've handled the players and stuff. 
It wasn't too much of a pitch. I think it was something that I wanted as well. If it wasn't going to be back in Pitt, it was going to be somewhere new for me. This was a great opportunity with a team they already had and the potential. 
The parity in the league, it's such a good league now. No matter where you go, teams can find a way to win to get to where we are right now. We've put in a lot of hard work and we still have a lot of work to do, but it's been a good ride so far. 

Q. You talk about the core that's been so close for so long. In your time in the NHL, there probably hasn't been a better team that hasn't made it to the Cup. Being part of the solution here, the veterans, get them into that Final, how do you feel about that? Is there a sense of responsibility, pride to get that done?
PAUL MARTIN: You can tell within the locker room, guys that even have been here only for a couple years, how much pressure. I would want nothing more than to have those guys have that opportunity. I think a lot of the younger guys feel exactly the same way. I'm sure the people, the fans, are in the same boat. 
When I first came over, I didn't know what to expect from Patty Marleau or Joe Thornton. I played with Pavs before on some teams, so I knew his work ethic, how he plays the game. You always hear what people say or what's written, how hard they work, how great of shape they are in, how they prepare, how much they love coming to the rink. It's really impressed me. 
I think if anyone deserves it, they do. 

Q. What would it mean for you to get there?
PAUL MARTIN: I'm not going to lie. I would love to get there, too. Big next game. I think that's kind of how you always have to approach it.
At the same time you always think, you know, when you have time off, what that would bring, being able to be part of something, a team that would make it to the Cup Finals, let alone win a Cup. It's so hard to get there, to get even this far. 
Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT