JOHN Q. HAMMONS HOTEL CLASSIC
September 9, 2006
Allison Hanna
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Allison, thank you for coming in; 2 under today.  Just want to talk about your day.
ALLISON HANNA:  I had no bogeys; pretty steady.  A few times when I was in the rough just kind of pitch out, take my medicine, try to get up and down for par.

I did that.  So other than that, I had a lot of opportunities for birdie.  Just stayed patient and made a couple    I think two birdies and no bogeys.

THE MODERATOR:  You put yourself in a great spot for tomorrow.  Currently tied for second.  Just want to talk about your thoughts going into tomorrow?
ALLISON HANNA:  Same as the last two days.  Like I've came up with a game plan for the course, and I am just trying to stick to that.  I don't think you can overpower this course.  It's just control.  Trying to control my golf ball and, you know, have fun.

THE MODERATOR:  Let's go over your two birdies.
ALLISON HANNA:  They were pretty early in the round.

THE MODERATOR:  First one was on 14, the Par 5.
ALLISON HANNA:  Yeah, hit it to maybe a foot or two.  I hit like a wedge, sand wedge or gap wedge, one of the two.

16, I hit a 7 iron to about    I can't really remember, maybe 6 feet.

THE MODERATOR:  Questions?
Q.  I guess trying to hang close enough is the key right now.  I mean, don't let Annika get too far ahead.  You can't do anything about Annika, but you can keep yourself in a good position?  You've got to feel like you did today.
ALLISON HANNA:  Yeah, you know, I really am not paying attention to what other people are doing.  All I can do is control how I'm playing and my mindset.

Yeah, I talked to my caddie earlier in the week and we thought, 3 under each day, that'll give you a good shot to win.  I've played pretty well so far.  I think just keep putting the ball in play and giving myself a putt at it.

The greens are a lot nicer than we've been playing the last few weeks, so it feels really nice to see the ball roll on the right line.
Q.  You just said that you don't watch scores at all.  Does that change going into tomorrow on how you play?
ALLISON HANNA:  I think it    usually it only changed    because it doesn't usually help you to look at the scores, at least in my opinion.  Maybe on the last holes if you need to make birdie, that would be the only time you would need to know the score.

You're trying to make the best score on every hole you're playing.  That's my outlook on it.
Q.  How is the course playing today?
ALLISON HANNA:  The morning always plays a little bit longer.  Like not so much roll in the fairways and even into the greens.  It's much more receptive.  I've actually probably had some closer opportunities for birdie today and just didn't make as many.

That's the difference.  It plays a little bit longer but the greens are more receptive, so it could be easier or harder depending on what you're doing.
Q.  You mentioned that you came in here with a game plan, how to play the course.  That's a statement Phil Mikelson has kind of made famous on the other Tour right now.  Is that something that is catching on?  More and more players are saying, Before a tournament begins, this is how I need to play this course?
ALLISON HANNA:  I don't think it's anything new.  Maybe people are vocalizing it more.  But the course we played last week there wasn't really a game plan.  It was just like bomb it, hit it close.

This course, it actually like shows you you have to go here and there.  It seems a lot    you have to be a lot more focused.
Q.  Which sort of course do you prefer?
ALLISON HANNA:  I usually do better on courses where you have to manage your game.  Usually the more difficult, because usually I make a lot of pars.  But this year has been a little different.  I made a few more bogeys.
Q.  You've been very consistent the first two days obviously.  Your scores are very close to each other.  Were your rounds that similar, too?  Pretty similar for you both days?
ALLISON HANNA:  Yeah, I guess yes.
Q.  Yeah.  Don't hit it into the woods or
ALLISON HANNA:  Yesterday I actually made five birdies, and today I made two.  Today was more consistent.  So yesterday I made a few longer putts and made some bogeys.  I guess that would be one of the differences.

But I'm looking forward to the football game.  I was really excited with my tee times the way they were early, because I would have been just dying knowing what the scores were.
Q.  Which games do you want to see today?
ALLISON HANNA:  Ohio State Texas.  I graduated from Ohio State.
Q.  Oh, you've got plenty of time.
ALLISON HANNA:  But still, you want to be rested.
Q.  How much practice time are you going give before you wind down a bit?
ALLISON HANNA:  Well, this is my 6th week in a row.  I might just hit a few putts and chips because I'm pretty tired.  This week has kind of been just    like I took a weekend off last week.  Missed the cut last week.  Just rested.  That kind of gave my brain a little time to rest.  Sometimes, you know, that 6th or 7th week you hit your second wind.  I guess I have done that, but the last couple weeks I was dead tired.
Q.  Anything different tomorrow, or would you be happy with this kind of round again tomorrow?
ALLISON HANNA:  Yeah.  Any time you're under par on this golf course I would say you should be happy.  You know, just get rolling the putts.  You never know how low you can go.

THE MODERATOR:  Anything else?
Q.  Thank you.
ALLISON HANNA:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT