SYBASE CLASSIC
May 21, 2006
Allison Hanna
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
It was a great effort.  How did you feel holding the lead like you did?
ALLISON HANNA:  It definitely felt pretty good.  I got a little quick on some of my shots.  I hit some of my shots a little farther, and that made it more difficult.  I thought I hung in there really well.

On 15, I actually 4 putted.  I hit the green in two.  I was looking at birdie and then all of a sudden I bogeyed.  That hurt me right there.  Other than that hole, I thought I played really well.
Q.  You were paired with Annika Sorenstam (No microphone.)
ALLISON HANNA:  It was that way the front nine.  That green is crazy.  If you don't hit it all the way to the hole it's going to roll off.  I thought about that on my approach shot and made sure I went left so even if I didn't hit it the right distance it would at least stay up there.
Q.  Did you have a 5 shot lead?
ALLISON HANNA:  I don't think I had a 5 shot lead.  It was 3.  The whole week I was just trying to stick to my game plan.  I had strategy on each hole.  And that's all I was concentrating on.  That's the best way to play.

You might get the adrenaline going when you know you have the lead, but you have to hit one shot at a time and what happens happens.
Q.  (No microphone.)
ALLISON HANNA:  This is my best finish by far.  Until this tournament, my best finish on the LPGA was 22nd.  I think I finished fourth or so.  I didn't win, but I felt I handled myself under pressure pretty well.  I missed a couple of putts, but I made a lot of good putts, too.
Q.  (Have you been working on swing changes?)
ALLISON HANNA:  I'm always working on swing stuff.  I actually missed the last like three or four cuts in a row and I really got away from my swing mechanics.  And I've just been concentrating on it the last couple of weeks and it's gotten a lot better, because I've always been a good putter and chipper.  If I can get my ball started on line, I feel I can compete with anyone.
Q.  Was it hard not to get a little ahead of yourself coming down the back nine with the lead?
ALLISON HANNA:  I think hole 12, I've never hit the fairway there.  So today I thought okay, I'll try 3 wood, maybe that will work.  I'll hit the tree.  I was on the cart path.  I don't have a shot even to punch straight out.  Luckily I get through there and make a good bogey.  But that hole gave me fits all week.  I made pars the other days, but it was phenomenal.
Q.  (No microphone.)
ALLISON HANNA:  I meant to go to the right, and I actually pulled it and it missed the other tree still.  90 percent air, right?
Q.  It looked like you were going straight at the tree.
ALLISON HANNA:  I was going just to the right of it.  The other punch shot was just as hard.
Q.  What kind of putt did you have on 15?
ALLISON HANNA:  It was a downhill slider.  I thought if I got it up there, but it just wasn't fast enough.  I thought it was more downhill and I think it was more of a level putt.  Really it would have been more ideal to be below the hole there.
Q.  Do you know how long it was?
ALLISON HANNA:  It was probably 50, 60 feet.
Q.  Was it cool, though, for you playing in the same group as Annika Sorenstam and leading the tournament?  Did you ever let yourself think about that?
ALLISON HANNA:  I tried not to.  But in the end she had my scorecard and she signed it and I was like, Oh, wow.
Q.  You don't get to keep that, do you?
ALLISON HANNA:  No. I asked if I could keep that.  I'm working on that.  I tried really not to, but it is amazing to play with her.  She hits it that much farther than me.  So that was a real confidence booster, seeing, okay, I played with the best in the world, I'm not that far off.

And I think actually some parts of my game may be better.  I'm a really good putter.  She's more consistent on the ball striking.
Q.  Is it frustrating that it was your putter that let you down?
ALLISON HANNA:  Yes, but I thought I made two good putts on my third and fourth putt.  That's all you can do.

On 16, I actually made a bad putt there and made a bogey.  That's all you can do, have the right mindset over the putt and if it goes it, it goes in.
Q.  Where are you playing next week?
ALLISON HANNA:  I'm playing Corning next week, and taking off Shop Rite before the LPGA Championship.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT