NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: RED WINGS v FLYERS
June 1, 1997
Ron Hextall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Is there one thing that you guys talked about from last night's game that was the prevailing thing in the meetings from the film session that is carried over to today about what to avoid or what to change for Game 2?

RON HEXTALL:  Well, we looked over some things on some film this morning.  But, I think the bottom line is we really got away from playing the type of hockey that we have played all year.  We did some very uncharacteristic things and we need to get back to playing the type of hockey that has got us here.


Q.  Have you been told whether or not you are the starting goaltender?

RON HEXTALL:  No, I haven't.


Q.  With the Yzerman goal that was scored late, do you feel that this is a game that you need to recover from necessarily personally?

RON HEXTALL:  Well, it is not a goal obviously that I like to let in.  At this time of the year it is unacceptable. I need to make, obviously, those saves, but I don't know if  "recover" is the right word.  I think as a team we need to bounce back and again play the type of hockey that we have played all along.


Q.  How much were you -- how much of it was them and how much of it was you?  Did they force you to make errors?

RON HEXTALL:  Well, you know, on one hand I think we gave them the game.  On the other hand, they did what they had to do to win the game.  So, I am taking nothing away from them.  They played a terrific third period and we had some giveaways and they made us pay for them, and normally when you do that you are going to be successful.  So, we didn't play a good game and they did play pretty well.  So, I guess it is a combination.


Q.  There is a perspective of teams -- does the team's morale change after a game?  You just forget about it and move on, or how do you try to get over from last night's loss and move onto Game 2 from a moral standpoint?

RON HEXTALL:  I think our morale is pretty good.  If we would have played a great game last night and lost, we would  -- it would probably be a little bit worse.  We know we can play a lot better than we played and really for us that is a saving grace, that we can and we will play a lot better.  So, the Playoffs is a real rollercoaster ride and you know the old saying, You can't get too high or too low.  It really becomes pivotal now.  It is something that we have to watch, not getting down or not getting real excited.  It is still a long  haul.  There is a lot of games to be played and we need to keep our focus and certainly not get down now.


Q.  Ron, because of the way things have gone in these Playoffs, do you find yourself looking over your shoulder more when games like last night happen?

RON HEXTALL:  I think, as everybody knows, our coach is not afraid to change his goalie at any time.  He has proved that in the three years that I have been with him.  And, Snowy and I are both professionals, whoever gets the call goes in and done his job.  That is always a  way of approach that I have expected to play every game through any season or through the Playoffs.  I mean, it is just one of those things that we have to deal with.  And it really doesn't make any difference.  It is no big deal.


Q.  I know you said it early in the series, but is Tuesday a pretty much a must-have for you guys?

RON HEXTALL:  It is a big game, there is no doubt about that.  We certainly don't want to go there down for nothing.  So, it is a big game for us.  It is a must win. Probably as close to a must-win as we have had in the Playoffs.


Q.  It is disappointing again that once again the goalie situation has now come up again and you are now going to have to answer questions for the next two days about what is going on at goal.

RON HEXTALL:  That is -- again, it is something that we have to deal with.  I am kind of getting used to it now.  (LAUGHTER).  So, no big deal anymore.


Q.  With the goalie situation you have talked with Terry Murray after the game, like this morning.  Do you go over things with him or does he go over things with you?

RON HEXTALL:  No.  We haven't spoke.


Q.  Aside from the goal that Yzerman scored that you have already talked about, how else do you think you played throughout the balance of that game last night?

RON HEXTALL:  Well, I don't think it was a whole lot of good on -- I can say this, I go out there and try my best. The Yzerman goal was one that I'd like to put behind me, but other than that, I don't think things went that bad.


Q.  Ron, can you talk about the Samuelsson play.  I know you have seen him play at various levels.  Can you describe where his play is right now?

RON HEXTALL:  I think considering that he come back after four months, that he has done a darn good job for us.  It is not easy to come back.  I am sure he will be the first one to tell you.  As far as I am concerned, he has done a good job for us and he is going to be important for us for the rest of the series.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT