NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: RANGERS v FLYERS
May 23, 1997
Ron Hextall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Have you ever seen a Playoff game with that wild an ending?

RON HEXTALL: That was pretty special.  That one.  Kind of a timely goal by Eric.

Q.  Are you guys starting to expect Eric to do these things?

RON HEXTALL: Well, he is a great player and great players do great things and they do things at certain times of the game and he certainly came through tonight as did a lot of other guys.  I thought we got away from our game a little bit and the third period was kind of hairy, but that is the way it goes sometimes.

Q.  This team keeps coming back.  What is going through a goalie's mind can be helter skelter third period last two games?

RON HEXTALL: Just keep the puck out of the net.  I have always said when I start thinking too much I am in deep trouble so you just try and react and when you react and you are really not thinking about what is going on, it is just a matter of being out on the ice and playing the game.

Q.  When you hear the chant, does it energize you?  Do you hear it?  Do you think about it?

RON HEXTALL: Again, I thought they were pretty calm on me again tonight.  They were loud there in the third period a little bit.  But, probably not.

Q.  What is it with you guys?  You know you have leads and you lose them.  You have to go back and score again.  Is this a normal path that people --

RON HEXTALL: I think tonight, you know, being I think it was powerplay goal; was it?  Right at the very end of it. Getting that shorthanded goal, I mean, when you are going into that powerplay, obviously, if you say we trade goals, we would take it because obviously we are shorthanded.  Druce just scored a huge goal it was disappointing for them to come back and score.  But, you know, again, we responded in a real positive way.  We didn't get down as we could have.  And we did a good job through the end.

Q.  This is your best game in a while?

RON HEXTALL: I guess that is probably a fair statement.  We got into some penalty trouble in the second period and we responded, I think, as a team and did a good job.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT