DR PEPPER ACC FOOTBALL CHAMPIONSHIP GAME: CLEMSON VS MIAMI
November 27, 2017
Hunter Renfrow
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  I'm curious, so much was made going into this year about having to replace Deshaun; what did you see in terms of how Kelly handled that early, and have you seen him become even more and more comfortable leading the offense as the year has gone on?  
HUNTER RENFROW: Yeah, for sure.  I think Kelly is a guy that we really didn't know was going to be the guy early on, even going through spring, going through fall camp.  He really took reins about halfway through fall camp, just the way he was progressing, and started to read the routes and make the throws.  Just different than Deshaun, though.  A little more vocal, a little more confident at times, but Deshaun was always reserved and poised, and Kelly is that way, too, but just that different way, and I think the difference, or something that Kelly has done really well is just his toughness, toughness all year, his leadership.  Just the way, I think, Auburn he got knocked out and came back and led us to a victory, and just all year just his toughness, taking more hits than Deshaun last year.   
 Q.  We see teams that they have a great quarterback, they're great for a year or two and then maybe they fall off.  What does it say about the program that Deshaun went off to the NFL doing his thing, and you guys are right back in the ACC title game?  
HUNTER RENFROW: Yeah, not just Deshaun, but we lost virtually everyone on offense it seemed like.  We weren't going to be any good.  I think it just goes to the type of people, but as well as the talent that the coaches recruit, and I think Coach Swinney has done a great job of just creating that next-up mentality and that culture that is sustained to last.  I think that just starts and stops with Coach Swinney and the job he's done.   
 Q.  Just talk about the Miami defense; I know you guys are getting prepared for that team.  They're a very young defense.  The cornerbacks are very good.  They have that turnover chain.  What do you have to do to take advantage of the young defense by Miami?  
HUNTER RENFROW: Yeah, for us we've just got to be ourselves.  We haven't watched too much of them yet with it being Monday, just coming off a big win against South Carolina.  Watched a little bit yesterday, and then watched them all season in big games.  The biggest thing for us is really just taking care of the ball.  I know they've got that chain, and they're looking for them.  But really when we've gone on the road -- I know it's a neutral game, but when we have gone on the road and played well is when we don't turn the ball over, and I think that's something that we have to do.  They're super talented, one of the best teams we've played all year for sure, and so we didn't give them and give their offense more chances to score than we need to.  Just limiting turnovers, really.   
 Q.  Did you play in the last game there at Charlotte before they moved it to Orlando last year?  
HUNTER RENFROW: Yes.   
 Q.  What was the experience like?  
HUNTER RENFROW: Yeah, I remember it being cold.  I remember we played North Carolina, came down to the onside kick.  I actually recovered that one.  But I just remember it being a great experience.  Orlando was great, too, last year, but it was special just growing up a Panthers fan, and they do -- ACC does a great job with it, so we're excited to go play in it.   
 Q.  I'm curious, do you have any memories of that 2015 game?  What do you remember from playing Miami in Hard Rock Stadium a couple years ago?  
HUNTER RENFROW: Yeah, I remember that was before they had the roof on Hard Rock Stadium two years ago.  I remember -- I don't think I had a catch in that game, but I just remember we came out hot.  I know it's a totally different team that we're going to play.  I think Coach Richt has done a great job just growing up, being a fan of him.  I think he's done a great job there, and I know that's not the version we're going to get.  You can't relate too much stuff to that because that's two years ago.  But I just remember just really going out there and playing well early.  I remember them talking a bunch of smack before the game and we came out hot.   
 Q.  Sports being what they are, obviously you find motivation wherever you see fit.  If that were you, if you were a Miami player today, would you think back to that game do you think, if you put yourself in their shoes?  
HUNTER RENFROW: As far as do I put myself back in their shoes as far as motivation?   
 Q.  Yeah, like let's say you played in that game on the Miami side and you were there, all of that.  Would that be something that would drive you?  
HUNTER RENFROW: Yeah, of course.  If I played on that team -- even if I didn't play on the team, if I was a recruit at the time and my team had just gotten beat the way they did and fired their coach the next day, that would definitely be a huge motivational factor for me, but at the end of the day, I mean, it's football.  That team isn't anything like this team.  We've got to go out and play, and we've got to do little things it takes to win.  You can't take too much from that win two years ago I don't think.   
 Q.  Given kind of some of the almost commonalities with your college career as Coach Swinney's, what's your relationship like with him?  Do you think there's a special connection there, and do you see yourself in a few years trying to do what he's doing?  
HUNTER RENFROW: Yeah, that's something -- I'm an econ major so I don't know exactly what my future holds.  I don't know if I want to pursue that or go and be a GA somewhere and coach.  But my two years have been awesome here, really.  I respect Coach Swinney more than a lot of people.  If he wasn't a football coach, he would be great at whatever he does in life.  I hope to be half the person that he is, not even a coach, just the type of person he is, and so maybe be a GA somewhere and follow in his footsteps.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT