FEDCUP WORLD GROUP II FIRST ROUND: BELARUS v USA
February 1, 2012
Victoria Azarenka
Olga Govortsova
Darya Kustova
Sergei Teterin
Anastasia Yakimova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   We'll take questions for the Belarus team. 

Q.   What do you think of your chances against this strong U.S. team? 
MALE SPEAKER:   We will try our best and the best will win.

Q.   How do you prepare for a tournament like this, Fed Cup? 
DARYA KUSTOVA:   I did a lot of work. 

Q.   This is more of a team competition compared to a singles competition. 
DARYA KUSTOVA:   We did a lot of work.   We have some practicing together.   I think we're preparing very good. 
SPEAKER:   Sometimes it's hard to get prepared only for a Fed Cup because we have different tournaments.   We're just back from Australia.   But still Fed Cup is very important for our country so we still try to be in a good shape. 

Q.   With Victoria winning the Australian Open, coming here as the No.1 ranked player in the world, how big is that?   How important is that for Belarus? 
SPEAKER:   Definitely it's nice to come here like this because we can have confidence in her.   She brings probably confidence in our team, as well.   First of all, it's an honor to play with her on the team. 
Well, I think we have even more chances to win the tie if she's there in the team with us. 

Q.   Are you preparing for a bunch of scenarios that the U.S. team could throw at you, whether it's Venus and Serena, Christina McHale?   Are you preparing as if Venus and Serena are playing singles? 
SPEAKER:   Well, we're preparing for all the scenarios, obviously, because we see who's here.   We know the girls, we know the players.   We're thinking for kind of all of them. 

Q.   From what I understand, when you found you were playing the tie against the U.S., you wanted to go someplace different you hadn't been before.   What do you think of this area and have you been able to go shopping or do anything fun, or are you still recovering from your trip from Australia? 
SPEAKER:   We are still a little bit with the jetlag.   We kind of go quite early to rest, and everybody's a little bit tired in the afternoon.   But I heard girls the first day went to Boston. 
SPEAKER:   Have some great time in Boston, yeah. 
SPEAKER:   After Australia, I went to LosAngeles for a week and practiced there.   Kind of used to America.   Of course, a little bit cooler here than there. 

Q.   Thankfully no snow. 
SPEAKER:   Yeah, but sometimes I would like to see snow because I miss it sometimes. 

Q.   There's a singles competition and a doubles competition.   Looking at the roster, the roster has done very well in doubles competition.   Is there anything about playing doubles that shows why you're so successful in doubles competition?   Any reason why you had that success? 
SPEAKER:   Didn't really understand the question. 

Q.   By looking at the records of your doubles competition, one player is 6‑1, another is unbeaten in doubles competition.   That's better than a lot of other players in doubles competition.   Is there any secret to your success in doubles competition? 
SPEAKER:   Team spirit. 
SPEAKER:   We understand each other well on court. 

Q.   2012, there's been one major so far.   What is going to make this 2012 season a season where you look back and say that this was a good year for you individually? 
ANASTASIA YAKIMOVA:   It's just a start.   So right now it's tough to say.   Of course, everybody just wants to do good at the Grand Slams, to go as well good in the Fed Cup. 
SPEAKER:   Of course, Olympic Games. 
ANASTASIA YAKIMOVA:   Olympic Games, it's an Olympic year.   It's tough to say right now because if you ask this in the end of the year, you can say things we have done.   Right now it's just some goals that we all have.   It's tough to say right now.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT