NASCAR HALL-OF-FAME INDUCTION CEREMONY
January 23, 2016
Randy Isaac
Patsy Isaac
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: Bobby Isaac went into the Hall of Fame here today, and certainly he's one of the greatest drivers to ever have been in NASCAR, and he's represented today by his family. We have Patsy Isaac and Randy Isaac, and I'll just ask each of you an opening question. Randy, what does it mean to have Bobby inducted into the Hall of Fame, and just what does that mean to you and your family personally? 
RANDY ISAAC: Okay, it's just such a feeling of pride. That's what I feel is pride. I know that when I go home, all my friends, my family, everyone will congratulate me, and it just makes me proud to be the son of a NASCAR hero. 
THE MODERATOR: Patsy, you certainly gave a wonderful acceptance speech there today. Just talk about some of the memories you have of being at the racetrack with Bobby. 
PATSY ISAAC: Well, thank you so much. I am just so happy and proud that Bobby has been recognized into the Hall of Fame. He had his big days in the early '70s, and sometimes people tend to forget those years, so just so grateful and thankful for that. 
We had quite a different experience at the racetracks than people do today. Women weren't allowed in the pits. Women were parked in a paddock area, and just a totally different experience, and it just amazes me when I see races today and see the things that are going on there. 

Q. Is your family still involved in motor racing in one part or another? 
PATSY ISAAC: No. 

Q. Patsy, I think you referenced this in your speech out there. You talked about when Bobby got out of the car. I've heard several versions of that story. I've heard that didn't happen, that it did happen. Can you kind of set the record straight on that? 
PATSY ISAAC: Well, obviously I wasn't there with him in the car when that happened, but I will tell you that as soon as he got out of the car and was able to get to a telephone, because we didn't have cell phones then, he called me, and he repeated to me exactly what it happened to him in the car. 
And he said, a voice told him that he needed to get out of the car, and so he radioed to Bud Moore. He said, find somebody to fill in the car. I've got to get out. 
I don't know what that experience was. I don't know if he felt it, it was an intuition, or if it was actually a verbal voice. I don't know that, but I know that it impacted him enough that he was not going to stay in the race car. 
He had always said that it was not because someone had gotten killed earlier in the race, and that person was from Catawba County, and he knew them. That's all I can tell you is what he told me. 

Q. What was your reaction when he told you that? 
PATSY ISAAC: I said, come home. That was fine with me. 

Q. I was looking at Bobby's stats, and there was that 1969 season when he won 17 times, 19 poles, but yet he finished sixth in the points. Did you ever hear him say anything about that, that man, I can't believe he had won that many times and had not won the championship, the one that got away maybe? 
PATSY ISAAC: He had a lot of DNQs. That's why. 
RANDY ISAAC: They ran a lot of races that year, too. 
THE MODERATOR: Patsy and Randy, we really appreciate it. Bobby certainly was a great contributor to our sport, and just very, very proud that he's in the Hall of Fame. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT