PRO FOOTBALL HALL OF FAME INDUCTION CEREMONY
August 3, 2013
Dave Robinson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  CHRIS BERMAN:   Welcome back, everybody, to the Pro Football Hall of Fame.   We've had more Hall of Famers back this year than ever before, and in our merriment of introducing the over 100 up here that are good enough to hang around, every now and then we save one play where at the 2‑yard line.   We've got 2 secondes to go, and we're going to the tight end from the Detroit Lion who's somehow we missed, but they didn't much miss him when they threw the Ball for Detroit, Charlie Sanders.   Way to go, Charlie.   
All right.   Well, it has long been said that Penn State was linebacker university.   So towards the front of the line stands Dave Robinson.   First‑round pick of the Green Bay Packers in 1963, he made an immediate impact with those legendary teams, starting at left outside linebacker as Lombardi's Packers won the last three of their five NFL championships in 1965, '66, and '67, which included, of course, victories in the first two Super Bowls ever played.   
He was voted to the NFL's all‑decade team of the 1960s.   By the time he finished in 1974 with the Washington Redskins, he picked off 27 passes, pretty good total now, for a linebacker.   Dave's induction tonight, by the way, makes it 12 men enshrined here in Canton from those Lombardi Packers, 12 of them, 12.   To present him tonight, his son, David Robinson.   
[Video playing].  
ANNOUNCER:   Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome into the Pro Football Hall of Fame, David Robinson.   
DAVE ROBINSON:   Good evening, Canton, Ohio.   How you doing?   I love this place.   Before I get started, I have just a little house keeping to do.   I'd like, first of all before I forget, I want to say that today I have two fellows that are good friends of mine, Buddy and Billy Lamb, it's their birthday, and I want to say happy birthday.   I also have a niece, Henrietta Hill, today is also her birthday.   I want to say happy birthday.   And my granddaughter, get this, my granddaughter is 18 today.   Michelle, happy birthday.   
You know, I say that because I'd be greatly amiss if I forgot their birthdays.   This is a great day in their life, but for me this is the biggest day ever.   This is the biggest day of the 21st century for the Robinson family, and I want to thank all of you for it.   
I'd like to thank the Hall of Fame, first of all, for being here for the last 50 years and doing the job of making this the premier sports venue in the country.   I'd like to thank the Board of Directors of the Hall of Fame for letting me serve on the board for 27 years.   It's a great board.   I'd most of all like to thank the selectors, in particular, the senior committee who looked and said wait a minute, we missed Dave Robinson.   Let's put him in there.   Fellas, I really thank you.   I have friends, family, and fans and everybody else that I live just about 25 miles from here.   But it took me 38 years to get here, and I tell you, I enjoyed every step of the way.   
I started off as a country boy in South Jersey, farmer.   I was raised on a farm in South Jersey, and I was 1 of 9 children to Mary and Lesley Robinson who both passed away.   Those 9 children, seven are gone, the only ones left are myself, and my sister, Henrietta Robinson sitting out there.   She's been a big supporter for me.   She stayed with me.   I can still remember, Henrietta, that very first store‑bought suit.   Everything else before that were hand me downs, and she did it for me, so I owe her a lot.   I know my other seven siblings, my mother and father, all looking down on me now saying, way to go Dave.   I hope.   
I went to school in a little town called Morristown, New Jersey.   Great town.   I had an excellent coach in Coach George Masters and his coaching staff, one of the finest coaching staffs I've ever been around.   Unfortunately for them or unfortunately for me, they've all past.   The only one left is coach Dick Lauren, and he's here somewhere.   I want to say thank you, Coach, for all the things you've done and continue to do for me.   
You know, like I said, all these coaches looking down on me.   Coach Masters, the finest high school coach I've ever seen, and I'm thankful for that.   
They did one big thing.   They directed me towards Penn State, the Pennsylvania State University, one of the biggest things in my life.   There I met the legendary Joe Paterno and Rip Engle, and they taught me a lot about football.   They took a diamond in the rough and made me a football player, and for them, I thank them.   
However, both Rip and Joe, JP White, and Jim O'Hare, all those coaches and the whole staff have passed on.   But I hope they're looking down on me now.   I want to say to them, thank you very much.   
While at Penn State, my romance blossomed with a young lady I met in high school, Mary Gaines.   She later on became my wife.   We dated for about one and a half years in high school and four years in college and we've been married for 44 years.   As David mentioned, she was a great woman, and I miss her a lot.   
While at Penn State, I had some great teammates and whatnot.   We had kickers, Sam Stellnatel, just a great guy.   You know, I've been blessed with great football players all my life to be around.   Football is a team sport, and I've had great teams behind me.   The aforementioned Morristown High School team was the only undefeated team in 1957, the first one in the school history.   I've got about ten of those guys here today too.   We are like brothers.   They're here to support me, and I thank them very much.   
I tell you, football is a game that's meant to be played, as my former coach said, a Spartan game played by Spartan‑like individuals in a Spartan‑like manner.   It's a game of hitting and getting hit.   You have to like to hit, and you have to like to get hit, because if you don't, you won't last long in this league.   
I saw people when you play football, you have to like the taste of blood, and you have to remember that 50% of the time, it's your blood, so...   I tell you, I came to Green Bay in 1963.   What's so unusual about that, it was 50 years ago, same year as the Hall of Fame.   It's their anniversary.   It's my 50th anniversary of my launch into the National Football League.   I feel the NFL is the greatest sports entity in the world.   And nothing tops the NFL.   I tell you.   
I played with all of those coaches that I had at Green Bay.   They were all going on to Vince Lombardi, head coach, Bill Backstrom, my defensive coordinator, and defensive line coach, Norb Hecker, and Red Cochran, they've all passed.   But I think, I hope they're looking down on me.   I thank them very, very much for that.   
I also was privileged to play for another great coach in George Allen with the Washington Redskins.   George was╩‑‑ everybody knew George, he was one of the greatest.   George is here in the Hall of Fame also, as is Vince Lombardi and well deserved.   
The one thing I say about George that's really bad is George has passed away also, and I hope he's looking down on me.   
I don't know if you caught it, but there's been a lot of coaches in my life and a lot of them have left here, so I don't think anybody else wants to coach Dave Robinson.   They don't last long.   There's a lot of people looking down up there my family and friends.   And some of my friends may be looking up at me, but I just hope they're all proud of me.   That's all.   
Unlike a lot of people, I never dreamed in high school of coming to the Hall of Fame.   It never crossed my mind.   When I went through college and was trying to make blocks when I had to go up against my sophomore year, when I was just a young sophomore learning things, I had to go up against Mike Ditka, scared to death, by the way, I never dreamed that some day I'd be in the Hall of Fame, and some people say, didn't you even have dreams about it?   
I said, no.   There was no Hall of Fame.   The Hall of Fame wasn't created until my rookie year.   (Laughing).   And I tell you, Vince Lombardi thought the Hall of Fame was the greatest thing that ever happened to football.   And you know what, as his disciple, he's right, it was.   
I played on the left side of Lombardi's line, and we had 12 guys, Kevin and Jim Ringo, he was on the championship teams not the three in a row, but he was there for the first couple.   But Willie Davis and Herb Adderley, and next to them was Ray Nitschke, and behind me sometimes was Willie Wood.   It was possible that you could lineup in an all‑formation, and there would be five, five Hall of Famers all on the left side all at one time.   The strongest left side in the history of the National Football League, arguably.   Just to keep it even, we've got four Hall of Famers on the offense, but I won't go into all of that.   
The whole back field, and Forrest Gregg and Jim Ringo, that's five.   I tell you, the Green Bay Packer organization is one of the greatest in the world.   Everybody in the Green Bay Packer organization is dedicated to football.   They want nothing but the best football.   They wanted nothing but the best from their ballplayers, and they wanted to give the fans the best football possible.   From kickers like Jan Stenerud to Chris Jackie, people like Curly who started with the Green Bay Packers, and Martin Murphy who now runs the Green Bay Packers.   He has a great organization.   
To me, it's one of the finest football organizations in the country, and I'd like to say to all of them people in Packer Land, thank you for putting me where I am.   Without them I couldn't be here.   
I just want to touch on something my son said about his mother being a Hall of Famer.   She was.   You have to understand, we were married in 1963.   In 1964, I told her, Baby, I've been coming to Green Bay.   There are no black wives in Green Bay at all; and she said wherever my husband goes, I'm going too.   So we packed up.   Dave's twin brother, and Elaine and I went across country from New Jersey to Green Bay.   And I dropped her in Green Bay in a little house we rented and I went to training camp.   She was just 22 years old.   Didn't have any siblings or anybody to help take care of her children.   She had twins, ten months old.   Didn't know where the drug store was, the grocery store, the laundromat or even the diaper service.   I was only allowed to come home between 9:30 and 10:00.   
But even with that, she held the family together.   She reared those children well, and she even put up with my craziness when I would come home.   
So I tell you, if anybody was going to be a Hall of Famer, I think she was it.   She earned it the hard way.   I remember she said one time, she talked to Mrs.╩Lombardi and said my only problem here is that Dave gets out on the field and he comes home and hollers at us.   And Mr.╩Lombardi said, you tell Dave, Vince only hollers at people with potential.   When he stops hollering, you're on our way out of here.   So starting the next day he hollered.   I said, he loves me (laughing).   He really likes me a lot.   
But I hung in there, and it's great.   I tell you, while I'm talking I'm going to say one thing else.   She often said she would not have made it those first couple of years being alone in Green Bay.   There were rumors there was one black lady that lived in town, one in the whole city.   I never met her.   But the rumor was she was there.   Yeah, I know.   You're thinking what I thought.   She's probably passing.   
Well, anyway what happened, Elijah Pitts' wife Ruth came to town with her son, Roddy who is on TV now, I won't mention the network, it's not this one, or this one, anyway, the two of them came in and so Elaine and Ruth, they were the pillars that we stuck to.   
After that, more and more black wives came to Green Bay.   Ever go through Green Bay now, and it's a very, very integrated city.   And it never was a city of bias, just a city of lack of color, that's all.   
I told myself I wasn't going to speak too long, and I'm going to go real quick, I'd like to say first of all that the fans of Baltimore, you guys may be great, but you've got to come to lamb Beau field to see the real thrill of the real fans.   Lamb Beau's the place.   A lot of guys don't want to believe me.   But I tell you what, our fans are as enthusiastic as any other fans in the country.   Our fans own the team.   Now top that (laughing).   
I tell you what, I am affiliated with almost all the 32 owners, and the best owner in the league is the Green Bay Packers, the fans of Green Bay, and I love those guys.   Well, I'm here now, and I finally made it, and I'm here forever.   The one thing I've always said and you may have heard me quote this, the thing about the Hall of Fame is the closest thing a football player can get to immortality.   You are forever immortalized in the bus in that place, and look at that bus.   It touches me because I know the answer from now, some little Robinson, some great, great, great, great of mine will look up and say, I wonder if that Robinson is related to us.   And the answer is going to be yes, sir, he is.   I'll be looking down on him.   You're immortalized there in the Hall of Fame.   
For this, I'd like to thank everybody here and in the Hall of Fame.   Thank you very much.   
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT