ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
February 22, 2015
Mahela Jayawardene
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Mahela, a tough game, and we also saw that even though you got a hundred, you didn't really celebrate that.  What was that?  Was it because of too much pressure and the way that the side was still struggling or what?  MAHELA JAYAWARDENE: Not that.  It's just I wanted to finish the game off not to get myself rattled and just to keep the focus going, simple as that.  I enjoyed that hundred as if it was one of those World Cup final hundreds, you know.  Just a tough situation.  Had to really mentally had to be very strong on the bat today, so very pleased with the effort.  The celebration is because I just wanted to make sure I finished the game off so I wasn't disappointed at the end.   Q.  Was it a tough day for the batter?  MAHELA JAYAWARDENE: I think with the new ball they bowled really good areas up front.  Moved the ball that had good bowling in it given the conditions.  We just had to make sure we batted through the first 15, 20 overs, and after that it got easier to bat.  Yeah, I think for us to play a tough match like that is probably a good thing in this tournament.  I think there are areas which we need to improve, and hopefully we can make sure that we improve those areas going forward.   Q.  Despite losing 4 for 51, I mean, you are quite comfortable from the start itself.  So how about your feeling in the middle of the time?  MAHELA JAYAWARDENE: Well, the only thing I was telling myself was to make sure that I commit to each and every shot.  The only way I could have gotten out initially was being a bit more negative and not playing my natural game.  So I was waiting for every loose ball, every shot, every leave I did with a lot of commitment to make sure that my focus was there because we had to keep the scoreboard ticking.  That was the only way we could create a bit of pressure on them.  So that was my game plan. Angelo batted really well for quite some time.  Yeah, it was disappointing that we both couldn't finish the game off.  But this is the game.  And batted really well at the end, so it was a good knock from him.  Quite happy.   Q.  I was just wondering how you feel this performance set you up for the rest of the tournament?  MAHELA JAYAWARDENE: Well, it's good.  Like I said before, it's a long tournament.  After the first game we had about a week before this game, and now we've got a few back-to-back games, which is a good thing.  Get a bit of rhythm going.  Bowlers, fielding, batting, everything.  We can increase our intensity a bit more all around. So early stages in the World Cup, yes, it was a bit of a hiccup, but we managed to get ourselves going.  Two points, points on the board.  We just need to make sure we take every game very seriously.   Q.  Did Afghanistan the way they played surprise you?  MAHELA JAYAWARDENE: Not really.  I think when we played them in the Asia cup as well, the bowling unit was quite good.  They bowled really well.  We didn't get much.  I think we scored 240 or 250 in Bangladesh.  Only their batting collapsed and we managed to win that game.  So as a bowling group, I think they've got experience and they've got some quality there, so not surprised.  I thought they batted really well.  We probably could have been a bit more disciplined with our bowling today.  A lot of extra areas that we didn't consistently hit.  But a work in progress.  We just need to keep working hard.   Q.  Mahela, you mentioned the fielding intensity there.  It seemed that Afghanistan in the field were up for it in comparison to Sri Lanka.  Is that a concern?  What is the reason for the different intensity of the last few weeks?  MAHELA JAYAWARDENE: I can't put a finger and say this was it.  But I think when you're defending a total, obviously, the fielding side tends to put in a bit of extra effort.  We need to do the same thing when we're upsetting our ball and fielding first and trying to restrict a side.  So we need to make sure that we do the same kind of effort out there.  Individually I think that everyone can lift their game up a bit more. Like I said, we're just getting into a tournament.  It's a World Cup.  We just need to make sure those 5 percenters, 10 percenters matters, and keep pushing ourselves.   Q.  Well played today.  Do you think that Afghanistan showed that they deserve more opportunities and there is a real potential there that can be nourished?  MAHELA JAYAWARDENE: Definitely, I think.  The more cricket those guys play, the more International Cricket I think they'll develop as a team, not only Afghanistan, but a lot of the other associate teams.  So even if it's 18 cricket or stayed cricket whatever the opportunities they'll get will improve.  They've shown it in this match today as well.  They've shown it in the first match against West Indies.  They're a very good team.  So we can't take any team lightly. It's tough competition.  If you make mistakes, it's tough to get back again with these guys.  So it's important that we keep improving.   Q.  What are your thoughts on the plans to reduce the World Cup to ten teams next time and make it much harder for teams like Afghanistan to qualify?  MAHELA JAYAWARDENE: Well, I was asked that question a couple years ago I said no to that because I think Sri Lanka got that same opportunity in '75 as an associate member.  We only got status in '83.  If we hadn't had that opportunity, we probably wouldn't have been here.  So I think it's important that we nurture and look after these associate members.  They're playing some good cricket.  Give them the opportunity that they deserve.   Q.  I guess a turning point for you guys in this game was Afghanistan's batting power play or you took two wickets for team runs?  Are you pleased with Malinga a's development?  He's come back from his injury.  And what do you put that betting power play down to?  MAHELA JAYAWARDENE: Yeah, I think that every game that he plays gives him that match practice that he needs so he can try a few things as well.  I thought that coming back from the New Zealand game he bowled quite well.  As long as he's healthy, no complaints with his body after the game, so that means he's good. Every match that he plays he's going to gain confidence, and that's what we want for Lasith because he's a key factor in our set-up, and it was good to see that he came back in that power play and bowled some really good slow balls and a couple yorkers and he's trying all the stuff which he needs to do.  As long as we can keep him healthy, it will be great.   Q.  The shot that you cut out, I mean, it's nothing new.  You played quite often and get a whole bunch of runs, but today it went the other way.  Any regrets?  MAHELA JAYAWARDENE: Obviously.  Big regret.  I wanted to finish the game.  My focus was to make sure that I was there until the end.  I was trying to be a bit cheeky, trying to get it finer, and probably didn't execute it the way I wanted.  But I'm not going to stop playing that shot.  It's given me so many runs, but that's how the game goes.  You take the good and bad at the same time.   Q.  As a former captain, do you think the team has made the most use of the batting talents?  Since this being your last tournament, how desperate are you to finish it on a high note?  MAHELA JAYAWARDENE: I think, like I said, it's important that we take every game one game at a time and concentrate on the tournament.  If we can finish it off on a high, that would be great.  But that's going to be a long way away.  We just need to focus right now.  Thisara's obviously a big asset with his bat and ball.  Batting, I think we just need to give him the confidence for him to go show what he's got capable of.  At the same time he has to play a bigger role with the ball as well. So if he can get both departments going for us in this World Cup, he would be a great asset going forward.  So the more games he plays, the confidence he will get.  So it's good to see him enjoying batting today.  If he can give him that freedom, like you said, we can get more out of him.   Q.  In a way, is it nice to be pushed and taken deep into a match?  Do you think that will maybe spark something on the team?  MAHELA JAYAWARDENE: Yeah, obviously it's good to play a good game of cricket.  It doesn't matter who we play against.  I think once you're pushed, mentally you need to be much more stronger as a unit, and that's what we showed today.  It will be good for us going into the tournament.  We know if we're in a similar situation we need to handle that. But the good thing is there is a lot of room for improvement, so if we can keep working at it, get everything right, it will be great.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT