SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 5, 2010
Renee Ladner
Kayla Melson
Bianca Thomas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 THE MODERATOR: We now have Ole Miss head Coach Ladner and student-athletes. Coach, if you could make an opening comment. 
 COACH LADNER: Tennessee was outstanding today. They dominated everything that we tried to do in the first half, in particular the boards. Tennessee is Tennessee because they prepare so well and they play at a different level once tournament time starts around. 
 I'm just sorry we didn't give them a better game. All in all, we fought till the end. 
 THE MODERATOR: Questions. 

 Q. For both players. Having played yesterday, you don't have as much depth as Tennessee does, did you think that was a factor? You played them close the first two times you played them. 
 BIANCA THOMAS: Fatigue is always going to be a factor when you play back-to-back games. That's not an excuse. I don't think we came out and gave Tennessee our best effort tonight. Have to credit them because they played great tonight. 
 KAYLA MELSON: Fatigue is not a factor and depth is not a factor. You know, our coach always says it's about who wants it more. I think tonight Tennessee came out and wanted it more than us. You have to give credit to that because they prepared. 
 I think that we just weren't able to counter what they threw at us tonight. 

 Q. Alicia Manning is a player that's come on for Tennessee in the second half of the season. Just as an all-around player rebounding and scoring, she plays good defense. Are you aware of her? Does she stick out in your preparation when you're playing against her? 
 BIANCA THOMAS: We're definitely aware of her. The last time in Knoxville, she got a double double on us. She's playing really well right now. She's their rogue player. She picks up the trash, plays good defense. She does all the small things for Tennessee. 
 So we definitely recognize her. 
 KAYLA MELSON: I think we do recognize her. She was the X factor in the loss when we lost at Oxford. She was the X factor when we played them at Tennessee. Of course we were aware of her. But give credit to her, because she's been playing really well these last couple games. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 KAYLA MELSON: Um, my ankles have been tweaked since I've been here. I mean, sprained both ankles numerous times. You know, this time was kind of different for me because I felt something that I usually don't feel. Thank God, it wasn't that serious and I was still able to play for my team. 

 Q. Would you describe it as a mild sprain? 
 KAYLA MELSON: I'd describe it as a mild sprain. 

 Q. Coach, same question I asked the players. I know they have a lot of talent. Is Manning a player you take note of being a factor with them? 
 COACH LADNER: Alicia Manning has kicked our butt both times we played them. We were well aware of her. She's had a double double. She's outmanned us, out-hustled and beat us on the board. Alicia Manning was somebody we took to heart. 
 Once again she came in today and got a double double. She is getting better every time I see her play, in particular against us. 
 You know they have the bigs, the perimeter players. But she is a hustler. She makes plays for Tennessee. Kayla keeps calling her the X factor. She has been our nemesis. She has beaten us every time we've played. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT