KANSAS STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 4, 2017
Dalvin Warmack
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Kansas State - 42, Texas State - 35
DALVIN WARMACK: We needed it big.  We're fighting to make a Bowl game right now, so that was a huge win for us, especially to come back the way we did and keep fighting.
Q. How good was Skylar in the fourth quarter?
DALVIN WARMACK: That kid is just a natural.  Most kids in that situation, being only 19 years old, would feel a lot of pressure on their shoulders and stuff.  But he just comes in there so calm and just executes.
Q. Down 11 in the fourth quarter, how did you keep your composure?
DALVIN WARMACK: We were just giving each other pep talks and believing in himself ourselves and each other and just staying into the game.
Q. What did you guys say in the pep talks?
DALVIN WARMACK: Just if you guys get a stop, we'll put up six or vice versa.
Q. Did you have an idea you were going to be more a part of the game plan going into today?
DALVIN WARMACK: Somewhat.  I had a good week of practice.  So you know, I knew the opportunity may have been there.
Q. What did you see on the touchdown that you had?
DALVIN WARMACK: You know, I just pressed front side.  I saw that backer run over, play side, and so I just cut it back and Winston made a great block.
Q. On the catch for a two-point conversion, can you walk me through that play?
DALVIN WARMACK: I wasn't out there.  Alex was in at that time.  Dalton's shown he's just phenomenal.  The guy is for sure handed -- anything you throw his way, he's more than likely going to catch it.
Q. What kind of momentum does this give you guys for next week against West Virginia?
DALVIN WARMACK: It's big.  Brogan Barry said earlier in the week this is a snowball effect, so we just have to keep getting that snowball bigger and bigger.  This is huge for our confidence.
Q. Do you guys even look at Skylar as a third-stringer?
DALVIN WARMACK: Not at all.  I mean, the way he practices and prepares and things like that, you know, every week you would think he's starting.  We definitely don't and especially with his ability and his composure and how he leads, not at all.
Q. What do you think you guys showed today?
DALVIN WARMACK: Just that, you know, we'll fight.  No matter what the score is or how much we're down.  We're a scrappy team and we're just going to keep coming at you.
Q. The game at Texas, did the overtime there kind of come to mind at all?
DALVIN WARMACK: It was kind of a sort of the same feeling.  It was like, man, we've been in this situation once and it didn't go our way but the defense did a great job of holding them and offense getting in there for seven.
Q. Not only that, but you guys could have crumbled.  You've been in some tight games this season and they haven't gone your way.  What's it say that you guys were able to overcome and not give up?
DALVIN WARMACK: I think just knowing that, you know, we need to win -- wanting to win and needing to win in order to make a Bowl game, that definitely helps everybody get into it.  The whole sideline was into the game and everyone was just feeding off of that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT