PILOT PEN INTERNATIONAL
August 13, 1996
Louis Gloria
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. (Inaudible).

LOUIS GLORIA: I might have been forcing the ball a little bit too much. I had a tough
time picking up the serve and I thought he was going to be serving a little bit more to my
forehand. He hit a lot of good serves into the body, he jammed me quite a few times. I
just started to pick up a little bit on it late in the match.

Q. (Inaudible). Did you feel like it was a one-sided match?

LOUIS GLORIA: I felt like it was one-sided maybe until the second set. I felt like I
was starting to get into it a little bit more. Wasn't really counting on playing at two
o'clock, so I felt a little bit flat. I hadn't really eaten enough. Came out and didn't
play very well at the beginning. He served pretty consistent the whole match. He doesn't
give up too many points. He doesn't give you anything, so you need to come out playing
pretty sharp, and I didn't.

Q. Can you tell us what you did this morning? Expecting to play at 11, you ended up
playing at 2:25. (Inaudible). 

LOUIS GLORIA: Today was a little bit different obviously. It was coming down pretty
good in the morning. Kept calling back and kept putting it off an hour, the start time. I
went over and practiced for a little over an hour. Pretty much another hour push back
until three o'clock or four o'clock. I didn't properly get ready this morning, but he
still played well and I didn't.

Q. Is his forehand or his backhand his strength?

LOUIS GLORIA: I think he's more consistent with his backhand. He doesn't give away
anything with his backhand. If I had pressured him more on his backhand. His forehand is
probably a little bit stronger, but his backhand is very solid.

Q. Was there added pressure on you to be on stadium court in front of a hometown crowd?

LOUIS GLORIA: No, not really. I mean, I've been on stadium courts all over the world.
That doesn't really bother me. I just have to try to go out there do what I can to play
well. Today I was very slow to do that.

Q. How tough were the weather conditions? Windy on the court?

LOUIS GLORIA: It was a little bit different. I don't know. I hadn't had a chance to
practice on stadium court this week. The thing I noticed is it was swirling a lot more
than the other courts. I needed to watch the ball a little bit better. Made a few mistakes
early on because of that. That was different. The wind was swirling a little bit. It was a
little bit chilly, but once you started, it wasn't so bad.

Q. Disappointed with the way you played?

LOUIS GLORIA: Yeah, I'm disappointed. I've been playing well all week and I did not
expect to come out flat. I think I could have done a better job of preparing this morning.

Q. What time did you actually get here?

LOUIS GLORIA: Right around two.

Q. (Inaudible). What happened in the last year? Was it injuries?

LOUIS GLORIA: Beginning of the year I was playing pretty well, beginning of this year.
Lost a few tough matches. At the same time, I was losing points on the computer. Maybe a
period of a month and a half or two months, hitting the ball pretty well, playing good
matches, and losing points on top of it. Then I went through a period of about a month, a
month and a half, didn't play very well. (Inaudible) at least a week or two and it's just
been keeping me a little bit dull. This week was probably the best practicing. I'm
disappointed with the results. I thought I was hitting the ball better than that. 

Q. (Inaudible).

LOUIS GLORIA: Well, I think every player goes through a period where they have a little
bit of doubt. If you're struggling a little bit, losing a few matches, makes it that much
easier to be doubtful. You just have to try to pull it together, however you know best,
and try to move on.

Q. What's next for you?

LOUIS GLORIA: I'm going to be playing the US Open. Possibly (inaudible) qualifying, I'm
not sure .

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT