TCS NEW YORK CITY MARATHON
November 1, 2015
Stanley Biwott
Lelisa Desisa
Geoffrey Kamworor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  CHRIS WEILLER: We will back to the podium with Stanley, Geoffery, and Lelisa. In just a minute, we'll have Meb and Craig Leon. 
Stanley, you threw in some surges there after mile 20. Three very, very fast miles, which separated you, started to separate you. Talk about what was your game plan, Stanley. 
STANLEY BIWOTT: Thank you very much. I'm happy today for being the winner of the New York City Marathon. My game plan today was I run to win the race. Thank you very much. 
CHRIS WEILLER: Geoffery, you hung on with Stanley for a long time. Did you think it was possible to win today? 
GEOFFERY KAMWOROR: For me, I was hoping to finish in the podium, top three. Then I thought I could win, but I'm happy to finish with what I could. Being in second position is good for me because I still have time. Next year maybe I'll come and try my best to win. 
CHRIS WEILLER: Lelisa, hard‑fought race last year here at Marathon with Kipsang to the end, second place. Today you're still in the pack of three. Tell us about your race. These guys did pretty good. 
LELISA DESISA: Thank you very much. This race is a fantastic race. Wonderful weather, nice course, people also good for morale for 26.2 miles. 
This race is a nice race, but two guys are very fast. I tried to follow them, but I have not enough fortitude to follow them, but the race is a nice race. Two guys are fantastic guys. It is a very nice race. I am happy for third place. Thank you. 

Q. Stanley, we've seen you finish No.2 in London and No.4 in London and No.5 in New York. What did you do to win today? What was different? 
STANLEY BIWOTT: During my previous London Marathon and New York Marathon, I was not able to run the last 5 kilometers at a consistent speed. So for my preparation for this New York Marathon, I trained for the 42 kilometers, not 35. So I was able to do my endurance speed to finish with a strong speed without running slow at the end. 
So I was confident and happy to be the winner of the day. Thank you. 

Q. At mile 20, there was a big move. That was when the race broke open. You covered the next two miles in about 8:55. Were you surprised how fast it went? What were you thinking when they made that move? 
STANLEY BIWOTT: Yeah, I was just listening to my body, and also the pace was too slow. So I was able to race with moderate speed. So I was just beginning to pass a certain speed (indiscernible).

Q. Geoffery, the first 20 miles or so were pretty slow for a major marathon, and then it looked like you were the one that started pushing the pace at about 20 miles. Did you think that you could take that pace all the way through the last 10K? 
GEOFFERY KAMWOROR: Actually, from the start the pace was a bit slow, but when I decided to make a move, I knew I was feeling strong, and I was feeling okay. I knew I could make it all the way to the finish. 
So I tried my best to reach, and that was the result that came out. 

Q. Geoffery, to follow up, at 35K aid station, you dropped the bottle. Did it bother you physically or mentally not having fluids at 35K? 
GEOFFERY KAMWOROR: Actually, it was unfortunate for me at 6 kilometers because I tried to get the bottle but I missed that. I said I could not go back to get it again. So I said let me go. I just continued without taking water from that 6K, but it was a great day for me. 

Q. Geoffery, you've had a busy year between cross‑country championships, track championships, and now here. You've done very well. Which one was the best of them all? Does this beat your other two? Where will you rank it? 
GEOFFERY KAMWOROR: Actually, this has been a great year for me from the start since I won a cross country to track, 10,000 meters, then to get a second position in a marathon. I feel great. Very happy. 
I'm happy about my second position in this year's Marathon, and I'm looking forward to next year. As you know, next year is Olympics, and I'm really going to work hard and looking forward to participate again in the 10,000. 

Q. I just wanted to clarify what Geoffery said. Geoffery, did you say it was a critical mistake to drop the water bottle? 
GEOFFERY KAMWOROR: No, I just missed it from that 6K, and it was a great experience for me, to run without the no fear. No fear. 
CHRIS WEILLER: Tell him in your own words what you were thinking when you missed your bottle. 
GEOFFERY KAMWOROR: I tried to get my bottle, but unfortunately, I missed it. I say, I cannot go. I cannot go back to pick it up again. I said, Let me continue, try. 

Q. Lelisa, do you think at all that running the World Championship Marathon made you at all fatigued for this race, or do you feel like you were fully prepared even having run a marathon just two months ago? 
LELISA DESISA: I participated in the World Championships in Beijing. After that, New York City Marathon invited me to run this race. Immediately after one week, I took a recovery, and then immediately I start training. 
To participate in these two marathons, it is for me very nice visit. But I take a recovery, but I like the New York City Marathon. Because of this, I want to run this year's.
Q. Geoffery, if you had the chance to do it again, would you go earlier, make a move earlier? Would you have waited to make your move, or would you have made the same move at 20 miles? 
GEOFFERY KAMWOROR: I think for me the second position was okay because (indiscernible). I race to win, but I'm happy about the second position. I'm looking forward in the future, maybe next year, I'll come back again and work hard to win a New York Marathon. 

Q. Stanley, over the last 5K, you were setting the pace, up the hill, and then as soon as you turned into the park, you made a move to get away. Did you rely on your strength rather than speed? And also your experience in New York, did that help you? 
STANLEY BIWOTT: When I reached the park, I knew the course. I had been here two years ago. So I knew reaching the park there was an uphill. So I was able to push towards the uphill and to maintain high speed and looking forward to the finishing line. 
So I was able to maintain high speed, knowing that some few kilometers I would reach the finishing line.

Q. Stanley, can you tell us how you've changed your training to increase your endurance? Were you doing longer interval runs? What was your training? 
STANLEY BIWOTT: During my training for the last three months, I was able to change our program and Gabriele Rosa introduced another program for me to be able to run a marathon without getting exhausted. So I was happy with the program. I train longer and increase the distance. 
So today it helped me a lot, and I believe in the program. Thank you. 
CHRIS WEILLER: Thank you, Stanley, Geoffery, and Lelisa. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT