UL INTERNATIONAL CROWN
October 4, 2018
Nasa Hataoka
Ayako Uehara
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Well Nasa and Ayako, you are two rookies in the UL International Crown.  You managed to fight your way back and halve the match.  Nasa, birdie, birdie finish.  You must be very pleased with your day?  
NASA HATAOKA: (Through translation.)  I haven't been hitting ball very well middle of the round, but last two holes I pull it off and finish with two birdies.   
That's going to be good for rest of the week.   
 Q.  How did you feel standing on the 17th tee?  You were 1-down just two holes to go and you hit that great tee shot.  
NASA HATAOKA: (Through translation.)  Well, the Phatlum hit first, hitting really close, so only thing I have to hit really close, too.  So I make a birdie and I was really happy.   
 Q.  Ayako, how much fun was it for you today?  Both of you were playing good golf; so were the Thai players.  No team was ever more than 1-up.  How much did you enjoy the day?  
AYAKO UEHARA: Well, it was really tough match, but the end of the day we finish halve so it's going to continue -- going to be good way for the end of the week.   
 Q.  Does it almost feel like a win, the halve you managed to get, given you were down after 14 holes?  To fight your way back to all square, does it feel like a win?  
AYAKO UEHARA: Well I didn't feel like win the tournament, but Nasa pull it off finishing two birdies 17 and 18.  So we feel like really happy, and hopefully we can continue doing this.   
 Q.  Would you like to play, Nasa, with this player again tomorrow, two rookies for a second day in a row?  
NASA HATAOKA: (Through translation.)  Well, I'm not sure.  We all have to talk about it tonight, about tomorrow's pairing.  We communicate very well.  Our team (indiscernible) really good today.   
 Q.  Final question for both of you.  This is the first UL International Crown being held in Asia.  What would it mean to you from Japan winning the first Crown in Asia?  Either of you.  
NASA HATAOKA: Winning Asia is huge, and then it's really close from Japan so hopefully a lot of people come follow us the end of the week.   
AYAKO UEHARA: (Through translation.)  There is no time different in between Korea and Japan so a lot of people probably watching us in Japan.  Hopefully.  Winning the tournament in Asia is really big.  I can't be happier to win a tournament here.   
Hopefully we can win the tournament this week.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT