NBA FINALS: LAKERS VS. HEAT
October 1, 2020
Kentavious Caldwell-Pope
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  Q. When you guys were down 13 and you made those back-to-back threes, how much of a key was that for you guys, and what were you thinking at that moment for yourself?
 KENTAVIOUS CALDWELL-POPE:   Just knocking down the shot.  The ball got to me in the corner.  I was wide open.  Just being ready to shoot and knock them down.
 For us is as team, it kind of turned the momentum our way and kind of opened it up for other guys to be comfortable, have confidence knocking down shots.  We just got after it after that.
 Q. When you have LeBron and Anthony Davis playing at a high level, how does that help you on the court to become a better player?
 KENTAVIOUS CALDWELL-POPE:   They demand a lot of attention on the court.  I know Bron and AD put so much pressure on the basket.  Other guys that are open, as far as shooters and myself, we have to just be ready to shoot.  Try to stay in the rhythm and be ready.  Those guys demand a lot of attention.
 Q. Do you believe that the Game 1 set the tone for the whole series for your team?
 KENTAVIOUS CALDWELL-POPE:   I believe so.  We had a great shooting game last night.  I feel like it will carry over to Game 2 as well.
 Q. When you signed with the Lakers, did you envision a championship run happening that quickly?
 KENTAVIOUS CALDWELL-POPE:   I didn't envision it happening quickly, but credit goes out to the Lakers organization for putting the team together to be able to compete for the championship.
 As far as me being here, one of the guys who has been here the longest, we've been through some up and downs from my first year here until now and we're still going through them.  It means a lot for us. It just means that this team is built on a brotherhood.  We all stick up for each other.  I help my team.  My teammates help me get out of a shooting slump starting the season.  And now we're here.
 We build that chemistry from day one.  We're together.  It's crazy.  I love just being around these guys and the chemistry that we do have on and off the court.
 Q. When you, Alex and Danny are consistently hitting the three-point shot,  how does that improve the Lakers chances of winning championship?  And if you're inconsistent, how does that lessen your chances?
 KENTAVIOUS CALDWELL-POPE:   When we're knocking down shots, the flow of the game is just -- we're just playing Lakers basketball.  That opens up the driving lane for our guys that drive the ball, put pressure on the rim.
 Also, you have to pick your poison on which one you want to stop.  Either going to stop a three-ball or we can drive to the basket all night.  Just depends on the situation.  I doubt that will lessen our chances if we're inconsistent.  It's just going to make it harder for us to win games if we're not knocking down shots.
 Q. How important has been Rondo's leadership and experience?  And also, how good is it to have Dwight Howard, the old Dwight Howard, back playing at his highest level?
 KENTAVIOUS CALDWELL-POPE:   Rondo is amazing.  Just to have his experience here, he's won a championship at a young age.  He knows the pressure that it takes to even win one.
 He's doing it every game.  Even in practice, films, he's quarterbacking for us.  He lets us know what he sees, and that's always good for us.  Learning, film and just going out on the court and doing it.
 And Dwight, I love Dwight.  He brings that big-man presence and he's just doing a hell of a job.  He's playing great.
 Q. How different will your game plan be if Bam and Goran are out?
 KENTAVIOUS CALDWELL-POPE:   I don't think it'll be a different game plan for us.  I feel like we're going to go in with the same game plan, play hard and just do what we do.  Whatever the coach's game plan is that day, we're just going to go out and execute.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT