NBA FINALS: LAKERS VS. HEAT
September 29, 2020
Kentavious Caldwell-Pope
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  Q. How did the Denver series prep you for the Heat?
 KENTAVIOUS CALDWELL-POPE:   Just being prepared defensively.  Murray, he was a guy that could get 30 to 40 points a night.  Just being on the ball as much as possible, taking away his pull-up threes and just forcing him to do stuff that he would normally not do.
 It's prepared me a lot just mentally and being ready defensively.
 Q. What are the aspects of the game that you think are going to be the most crucial about the whole series. And what are the points that impressed you most about the Miami Heat's game?
 KENTAVIOUS CALDWELL-POPE:   What's impressed me most about Miami is how they move the ball, how well they play together.  It's not just one guy just trying to do it all.  They are real connected.  They play that way on both ends of the ball.
 As far as what to expect, I just expect a high-level series.  Everybody just being ready and prepared to play.
 Q. Can you elaborate on how you are able to focus during those trying times and being able to play right now in the Finals?
 KENTAVIOUS CALDWELL-POPE:   As far as how the team has been able to focus, it's just being mentally tapped in.  I feel like we as a team, Lakers organization, we came here for one goal, and we all just bought into that.
 We prepared ourselves.  No matter what it took, we were going to do it.  Just as far as being around each other, it's built more and more chemistry that we have on the court.  I just expect everybody to be high level and ready to play.
 Q. You've been with the Lakers as long as anybody on the team.  How would you describe your experience with the Lakers from obviously a time where they weren't winning a lot of games to now in the NBA Finals?
 KENTAVIOUS CALDWELL-POPE:   My first-year experience was great.  I came in ready to play.  We had our ups and downs.  It was a young team at the time.  I think I was the third oldest on the team at the time.  That year we were all still trying to figure each other out.  It took a while, but things happen for a reason.
 Then as the years went along, the Lakers organization just built a team where it was a championship team, I feel like.  Everybody that came in that year, my third year, actually this year, was ready and prepared for one goal. That really surprised me because you don't get many teams like that.
 Q. A lot has gone down in the bubble since you got there.  Now you're in the final leg of this bubble period, so to speak.  What is your favorite memory looking back at everything you went through from the games to team bonding to just being in the this bubble with all these guys?  What's your memory so far?
 KENTAVIOUS CALDWELL-POPE:   Of course winning the Western Conference Finals.  That's going to be a memory we won't forget.  Besides that, just being around my brothers.  I don't get much free time.  If we were out of the bubble, we don't see each other that much because of families and stuff we have going on.  Just being around my teammates and friends, family that's here with me, this is a great memory I'm going to remember.  Just being around a great group of guys and just having fun.  Not really worrying about too much.  Just being prepared and ready for whatever together as a Lakers organization.
 Q. Can you describe the game plan of the Lakers to win the NBA Finals?
 KENTAVIOUS CALDWELL-POPE:   Game plan?  We just got to all be ready, 100% ready.  Got to be ready mentally.  Just buy into the game plan that is laid out for us.
 We all just got to be prepared.  We know Miami is a great team.  They play well together, both sides of the floor.  We just got to come in this series and just do what we do best and just play Lakers basketball.
 Q. What was the biggest part of your game that you worked on in the offseason, and how much has that helped you throughout the season?
 KENTAVIOUS CALDWELL-POPE:   The biggest thing I worked on this summer is just basically -- I told myself, I'm always one to stay consistent, and just being ready and prepared.  As far as my shooting, my three-point, I worked on that a lot.  Just being ready whenever the shots get to me.  Just being prepared whether I'm getting shots or not.
 Try to work on that as much as possible, and it's showing off as far as where I'm at now.  I put in the work all summer just to stay consistent behind the three-point line.
 Q. You've always played as far as I can remember in the Kobe 5s for the last two years I think for the most part, right?
 KENTAVIOUS CALDWELL-POPE:   For the most part, yeah.
 Q. What is about that shoe in particular that you really like?  What is it about that logo and putting it on every day?
 KENTAVIOUS CALDWELL-POPE:   It definitely makes me think of Kobe because these are his shoes.  Just to have that part of him with us.  Most of us feel like wearing the shoes because of him.  But also I just like how they feel.  They're light.  I like the colorway on them.
 They're just a good fit for me.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT