TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 19, 2019
Damarcus Fields
RJ Turner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Iowa State - 34, Texas Tech - 24
Q. With the interceptions, do you feel like those were going to turn things your guys' way, and what did you feel?
DAMARCUS FIELDS: I just felt like it gave opportunity to the offense, and that's all defense is made to do, give opportunities to the offense.
Q. When you kind of made that play in that situation (indiscernible) kind of had to jump up there, did you feel (indiscernible) and the ball was coming towards you?
DAMARCUS FIELDS: I was just being a football player.
Q. Damarcus, Matt was talking about the lack of pressure on Brock and allowing him to throw. How much more difficult does that make it for your guys in the secondary when the quarterback gets a lot of time like that?
DAMARCUS FIELDS: It makes it tough. I mean, we're supposed to pressure the quarterback, and if it doesn't, it doesn't. But we're a team, and sooner or later we'll get it together.
Q. Before your interception Riko made a pretty passionate speech to the team. What was his message?
DAMARCUS FIELDS: His message? His message was just we felt like we lacked in passing and just getting ready for this game, and Riko always brings that energy, and we feed off each other, so I'm glad he did it.
Q. What did you see from Brock that made him so effective today?
DAMARCUS FIELDS: Iowa State is just a very disciplined team. They're a very good team. We already knew what we was getting ahead before we even played.
Q. RJ, on offense, what are you trying to feel -- what wasn't helping you guys kind of get those touchdowns kind of early on there?
RJ TURNER: We've got to start faster coming out. It's as simple as that. When the defense gets us the ball back we've got to capitalize because just recently here when Damarcus got that turnover, if we go down and score, it's a three-point game, and the whole outcome can be different.
Q. From your perspective, from the way you guys played on offense, did you feel like you were efficient in the second half a little bit more and what did you do differently there?
RJ TURNER: I mean, I feel like on offense we played with more speed, as we should have coming out. I mean, when we're doing what we're doing at the pace we want to do it, it's hard for anybody to stop.
Q. Coach Wells talked about how you guys got down 20-0 but didn't give up. Does that just pull within yourself to not give up, or is it something -- how things were going that made you guys want to keep going, whether it was the momentum of the game or something along those lines?
RJ TURNER: If anybody would have gave up they shouldn't be a Red Raider, it's as simple as that.
DAMARCUS FIELDS: He said it perfectly.
RJ TURNER: When things are going right, it's easy, everybody would do it. It's football, it's rough, you're going to have ups and downs and controversy. You've just got to fight through it.
Q. RJ, did you expect the ball would be coming your way as much as it did today?
RJ TURNER: I don't think about it, I just do my part.
Q. Damarcus, on the fumble that you returned, did you expect that to be a return? Did you think it was down or did you think the ball came out early?
DAMARCUS FIELDS: I just went full speed and I pray for the best every time. If it was a fumble it was a fumble, but I'm going to go 110, I'm going to go score it. If it's not, that's fine; put the defense back on the field.
Q. RJ, what made that defense pose problems for you all?
RJ TURNER: I mean, they're well-coached. Hats off to those guys. They played hard. It's a team, they're not going to shoot themselves in the foot. So when you have the opportunity to capitalize, you've got to take advantage of it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT