WIMBLEDON
July 6, 2015
Denis Kudla
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. CILIC/D. Kudla
  6‑4, 4‑6, 6‑3, 7‑5 
   
 Q.   Overall thoughts on making the fourth round here?  
DENIS KUDLA:   It's been great.   Great month, for sure.   Can't complain.   Pretty much couldn't ask for really a better run except for obviously winning the tournament, but that would be a dream come true.   It's another story.  
But I was happy the way I played, played with the top players.   I'm really, really confident going into the U.S. swing after this result.  
   
 Q.   Overall, your thoughts on that match?   You hung in there pretty well.   You were getting a lot of looks on returns.   
DENIS KUDLA:   Yeah.   I mean, I knew he was returning really well and he had a big serve.   I had practiced with him before on grass.   I knew going into the match what I was expecting.   
But, you know, I had my chances.   Serve kind of went on some big moments.   For the most part I gave myself a good chance.   I thought maybe going to the fifth I could have gotten some momentum, especially starting slow in the fourth, getting that break back and having a chance to go up a break.  
So it was just crucial.   I thought if I got that break I could take it to five, and anything could happen in the fifth set.   Overall, I was pretty happy.  
   
 Q.   What was it like being the last American left?  
DENIS KUDLA:   It's a cool feeling.   Obviously I wish there were more Americans in there.   I was kind of pulling for Isner so we have a guaranteed guy in the quarters, but to have that opportunity to be the last American man in a slam is pretty special.   
But again, we don't have another American in the quarters, but I think we are showing there is more guys coming.   It's going to be a process, but it's positive.  
   
 Q.   How do you think all this sets you up for the U.S. season?  
DENIS KUDLA:   I think it sets me up pretty well.   I'm just going to take all the confidence I have on grass and try and apply it to the hard court and try and peak at the US Open and do the same thing.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT