PAC-12 WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 1, 2018
Mike Daugherty
Borislava Hristova
Nike McClure
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








USC - 47, Washington State - 44
MIKE DAUGHERTY: Really proud of the effort, given everything that's happened in the last week.  I thought the team came out and played with a lot of heart, played with a lot of emotion.  I thought it was a great defensive basketball game on both ends.  Really couldn't ask anything more out of these young ladies than what they gave today.
Q. How would you describe what this week has been like for you guys, losing David Lang the way you did?  And how did you get the kids ready to come play this game?
MIKE DAUGHERTY: It's been a very emotional week.  It's been a very sad week.  How we got the team ready was we just tried to stay together, help each other through this as much as we can.  I thought the young ladies did a really good job of that, and came out here tonight and did Washington State University proud.
Q. Bobby, Nike, you both played incredibly well out there today.  I'm looking up at you right now wondering how you even have the strength to get out there.  How were you able to do that tonight, to play such great basketball with everything that's been going on?
NIKE McCLURE: I think that right now we're just, the whole goal of that game was to play for each other and play for David Lang, what he's really preached to a lot of us for a while is put a lot of effort into our games.  So I think that's one of the reasons why our team was able to go out and play today was because that's what he taught us.
BORISLAVA HRISTOVA: It kind of brought us together to play for him and play for each other, and I think -- yeah.
Q. Nike, there was a senior ceremony before the game because you reached out to the commissioner of the Pac-12 and said we didn't get to celebrate our seniors last weekend.  Why did you do that?  You're already so busy as a student-athlete.  What motivated you to reach out so your seniors got recognized today?
NIKE McCLURE: I mean, overclassmen are really important to our team.  Every team they're important, but those are the girls I came in with my freshman year, and they're my seniors now.  And I really appreciate everything they've done for us and they really deserved that night.  Tragically, we had a moment where they couldn't celebrate it, and I felt like they really deserved to be recognized for all they've done for our university and our program.
Q. What was the most challenging part of this series?  It seems the team has been through a lot with Coach June Daugherty not being with you, and then losing Coach Lang.  How has the scene evolved for you guys, given the fact that you were welcoming back a lot of girls that didn't play last year because they were hurt, right?
NIKE McCLURE: I'd say the most challenging part of this season was our consistency.  As you can tell, a lot of games we'd be really good and then other games we'd be off or some quarters we'd play good and other quarters we'd be off.  So I would definitely say the main challenge for us this season was definitely consistency.
But in terms of bringing those girls back, we've all played together and practiced together, so we know how to mesh together.  We're a team no matter what, so I would just say it comes down to consistency.
Q. What sort of ignited the eight points you had at the end, Nike?  You looked really emotional when you had the two and ones.
NIKE McCLURE: Oh, yeah, honestly, I just wanted us to win.  I wanted to win the whole Pac-12 tournament.  That's what our team came here to do is win basketball games.  I was just trying to do what I could do to help that happen.  Thankfully my teammates saw me and help trusted me to make those shots.  So I'm really appreciative of that.
Q. For folks who maybe didn't know Dave that well, what would you like everybody to know about him tonight?
NIKE McCLURE: David was a man that literally used every single minute of his day to perfection.  There were no minutes off.  He was just a great guy who was really passionate about what he did.  He came to work and he loved what he did.  He cared about everybody.  I don't think there was a person in Pullman or a person he's met that he didn't touch personally.  So losing David was a really big loss in my life and everybody else's life who knew him, because he was a great guy.  Like he's a man of his word.  He's like the person you want to be, so, yeah.
BORISLAVA HRISTOVA: He's one of the one of a kind persons you wish to have in your life.  He had impact on all of us.  He pushed us through all the pain, and, you know, he really will be missed.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT