NCAA MEN'S DIVISION II CHAMPIONSHIP GAME
April 5, 2013
Alex Hall
Steve Hesser
Brandon Lockhart
Teddy Simniok
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		  THE MODERATOR:   We're joined by Coach Steve Hesser, Alex Hall, Brandon Lockhart and Teddy Simniok. 
Coach, an opening statement. 
COACH HESSER:   Thank you very much.   We're excited to be here.   This is the first time that Drury has had the opportunity to play in the national championship game.   And what an event to be able to come here and have it in conjunction with the DivisionI, II and III.   It's been a wonderful experience so far for our student‑athletes.

Q.   Alex, 68 points in two games in Louisville, what do you have up your sleeve for Atlanta?
ALEX HALL:   Just going to stick to our game plan and come out like we do every game.   And that's with effort.   And just play Drury's way.   That's moving the ball on offense and getting stops on defense. 

Q.   Teddy, you got a pretty big job coming up at least on the surface it appears that way.   You'll have to deal with John and you'll have some help dealing with Nick as well.   Talk about what you got going this weekend?
TEDDY SIMNIOK:   I'm going to prepare like I always do.   I just want to do my job and make it as hard as possible for the big guys to score and focus on getting rebounds and playing our offense.

Q.   Teddy, the height that they're going to have coming in at you coming at you; it's not just you and Ian Carter and the two, just tell me about the way you guys have to communicate and talk to be able to guard the yard underneath the rack?
TEDDY SIMNIOK:   Our whole defensive system is collective.   If we work together and get in positions we need to, I mean their size doesn't matter.   As long as we stay fundamental on defense, we'll be fine.
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Coach or the student‑athletes.

Q.   Brandon, can you talk a little bit about their guards and their speed that they have as well, because it almost looks like you can match up with speed on the back court?
BRANDON LOCKHART:   I know they got some pretty tough guards in the back court.   But it's not anything we haven't seen all year.   We'll approach it like we approach every game, not do anything different.   Because we know what we have to do for this game. 

Q.   Coach, the press, the traps, the 2‑3s, is there anybody you've played this season that's reminiscent of Metro?
COACH HESSER:   I don't know if we've played anybody with the whole package.   But we've played against the press and we've played against some zone 2‑3 and pure matchups.   So we've played 34 games.   We've seen a lot.   Our guys have really grown up and understand different schemes that's going to be thrown against them.   So I think they'll be prepared.

Q.   Coach, with all the hoopla surrounding the championship game, is focus an issue with your guys?
COACH HESSER:   I wouldn't question focus one bit.   When we started on this journey, it was all about, hey, let's enjoy it, let's do what we do and let's see where we go. 
And we're still here.   And they're a loose bunch.   They cut up.   But for the last three weeks to the month when it's time to throw it up, they played.

Q.   Could each of you describe what the feeling is like‑‑ I guess all of you have seen the national championship game, the DivisionI on a Monday.   Could you describe the feeling of being in this environment and have you ever thought about what it would be like to play like on a Monday?
ALEX HALL:   This is a great feeling.   We have a great opportunity.   That's what we worked hard for all year since day one.   And it's just a dream come true.   That's the only way you can put it.
BRANDON LOCKHART:   I mean, like he said, something really special.   Just being here with the D‑Is and seeing all the things they're going through and we're doing the same thing they are, it's something special.   It's something we'll treasure for the rest of our lives. 
TEDDY SIMNIOK:   I say it's an honor.   I mean, we've worked for this the whole year.   And it's just great to be able to be a part of this and it's a dream come true.

Q.   All three of you, the seniors, this is your last game.   Can you just imagine you're about 22 wins in a row, playing for a national championship in Atlanta for the Final Four for your last college games, just your emotions on that?
ALEX HALL:   It hasn't really dawned on me yet that it's my last game.   I haven't really thought about it like that.   But going into this last game, it's just a tremendous honor. 
We've had a great run together.   And we don't want to go out any other way.
BRANDON LOCKHART:   I haven't even thought about it being my last game.   I'm just focusing on it being my next game like I have all season.   Since it is our last game, really something special if we could close it out with a victory for us three seniors?
TEDDY SIMNIOK:   I haven't thought about it either.   I mean, I just want to take our business like we have all year long and just approach it like every other game and do our jobs and we'll be fine and we'll celebrate afterwards.

Q.   Coach, they have a size advantage over you guys, which is nothing new all season.   It's very likely they're going to try to slow you down.   How do you plan on handling that difference in style?
COACH HESSER:   Well, I mean, let's be us.   Let's do what we do.   You're correct.   We have played against bigger teams, bigger players in our league.   And I think our league prepares us for games like we're going to have on Sunday.   And we need to do what we do defensively and help each other and probably double the post and rotate out of the double.   And then offensively they're going to run a‑‑ or our offense, they're going to run a box press, back to 2‑3 is what they've done the majority of the time.
And we've gotta take care of the basketball and be aggressive in our zone offense.

Q.   Players, your fans have been huge this year especially in Louisville.   A bunch of Drury fans there and I know you're expecting the same on Sunday.   Can you just talk about the role you've played in your guys' success late in the season?
TEDDY SIMNIOK:   I would say it's been like a sixth man.   They've helped us out a ton, their support.   Just gives us an extra boost every game and love having them there.
BRANDON LOCKHART:   It makes every game feel like a home game because in, since Louisville we've had the most fans.   So it's something we look forward to every game and they look forward to it also.   So I think we'll have a good turnout again.
ALEX HALL:   It's huge.   We feed off them.   And the crowd we've had of late, like Teddy said it's like a sixth man.   They help tremendously.
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT