NCAA WOMEN'S REGIONALS: AUSTIN
December 9, 2016
Abby Cole
Ally Davis
Kelly Murphy
Mark Rosen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Coach, if you want to open up with your thoughts on tonight match.   
MARK ROSEN: I thought it was a great match.  At this point in the NCAA Tournament, you expect matches to be well contested, and I thought it was.  I thought that Creighton did an excellent job back there, a very good team.  They are a very physical team and I think that -- playing a power five conference, people don't know that about them.  We saw it on tape and we knew it coming in, they are a very, very physical team and very balanced team and with that it creates difficulties and I thought they did a great job.   
I thought the turning point of the change in the match was their ability to continue to get kills.  They out-killed us and their defense set up a lot.  I thought our ability to get kills was limited a lot based on their defense.  But again, I think they are a very good team.  It was a good, well-played match.   
I thought our team did a great job this season, and I'm proud of our season and certainly disappointed that it's ended because I like this group and I like being around them on a daily basis.  That will be the hardest part.   
 Q.  What do you think was the difference between the third set, having a 2-1 lead and the fourth and fifth set?  
MARK ROSEN: We got nine kills, and kills are points and that's the big difference -- they got 11 and we got four.  It's pretty easy to look and know where that lies.  They did a better job both in service speed and swings and in transition.   
I thought they scored really well in transition.  We did enough scouting on them that I knew they were going to come out and be really aggressive and that was our plan as well.  But they executed better than we did.  In the end -- most of the errors we made in the fifth set were aggressive errors, a couple violations and errors that were aggressive.  I'll take that.  In that situation, I want us going after the match.  I don't want us sitting back and being afraid to make mistakes.   
 Q.  For any of the players, how much of your confidence through the last three sets, being up 2-1, having a tie, to having won that fifth set, what was the team's confidence?  
KELLY MURPHY: I think our confidence level is very good throughout the match.  I think when it was down match point, we thought we were going to win the fifth set and we all believed that.  All the way through I thought we were going to win.  We just didn't get the outcome.   
 Q.  This season, the success you've had?  
ALLY DAVIS: It's definitely something to be proud of -- not what we wanted but speaking for myself and Abby and Kelly, great program to be a part of.  It's going to be interesting to be watching on the other side but it's going to be great.  It's going to be really fun to watch.   
ABBY COLE: This was the goal preseason, feeding off what Ally said, it stinks that we lost.  But right now it's more about reflecting on all of the great opportunities we've had and just the opportunity that the coaches gave us to be part of this program.   
 Q.  Is it hard, to kind of reflect on what you guys didn't accomplish, or is that something you'll have to do a couple days, a couple weeks down the line?  
ABBY COLE: I don't think it's really sunk in personally.  I think it's sad right now but it kind of still feels like we have practice tomorrow or a match next weekend and we don't, and that's a hard pill to swallow.   
I think definitely over time, when that does set in -- it's sad, but we're really grateful.   
ALLY DAVIS: Definitely a lot to be proud of this season and just through our careers that we've been here.  I know I wouldn't trade it and they wouldn't trade it, so it's been really awesome to be part of this whole group.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT