SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY ACER
June 8, 2018
Pernilla Lindberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Just talk about the entire round.
PERNILLA LINDBERG: Yeah, started off really hot.  Started on the 10th hole.  Hit it in nice and close on 10 and had probably three-footer for birdie.  That's a nice tone for the day.
Then kind of had a good short putt on 12 as well, my third hole of the day; missed that one.
Then on 13, 144 to the pin and hit a 7-iron.  It was into the wind a little bit.  I mean, it looked good the whole way in there.  That green is raised, but I could hear it hit the pin and there was no reaction up by the green.
I was like, Please, don't let it bounce too far away.  By the time I get up on the green someone was like, It went in.  Like, Oh, okay.  So I don't know why they didn't really cheer much more up there by the green.
Yeah, it was just a slam dunk in there.  The funny thing is I got some new irons in the bag this week.  However, Ping just released them, and they probably didn't expect me to be wanting to put them in play so quickly.
The just brought out a 9-, 7-, and 5-iron to me on Wednesday when I started practicing this week.  I said, No, I really like them.  Can you order some?
They said, Yeah.  They will be here Thursday.  Okay, great.  And then didn't show up yesterday.
I still really like them, so I actually kept the new 9-, 7-, and 5-iron in the bag.  So I have a mix.  Old pitching wedge, 8, 6, 4, and the new model, the uneven numbers.
That was my first 7-iron out there and I slam dunked it, so hopefully the rest are in the clubhouse waiting for me now.
Q. Then you kept it going.
PERNILLA LINDBERG: Yes, exactly.  Then after that I just played steady.  Gave myself a lot of chances.  Course felt like it played about as easy as it can be this morning.  Wasn't much wind.  Played pretty short.
I had a lot of little wedges that I actually didn't really take advantage of them.  The par-5s out here is really usually you can make up some shots and I made three pars on the par-5s.  So I feel like I left some out there for sure, but still a good first day.
Q. When the wind is down like that compared to what it can be, is it important to get off to a fast start, particularly because this is just three days?
PERNILLA LINDBERG: Yeah, absolutely.  And I mean, the day you play in the morning here is kind of usually when you want to take advantage.  The greens are better.  The wind is usually down.  So you for sure want to take advantage of that.
Q. Having a great year just with confidence level up.  How do you feel?
PERNILLA LINDBERG: Yeah, I mean, golf, it obviously helps a lot when you're confident when you step out there.  There is so much about that.
I just feel like I probably can play a little bit more free just because I have a little bit more confidence.
You know, still, when you get out there, golf is still a tough game.  Last week I kind of struggled.  Sure, I made at cut at the Open, but didn't play good at all.
Still, just because you're having a good year, not every week it's going to feel easy when you go out there.  I like what I felt heading out there today, and I'm going to try to just keep going on that.
Q. Going to tell Ping to make sure the wedges are in the bag tomorrow?
PERNILLA LINDBERG: Yeah, I don't think I can blame that on the clubs.  I'll go and do some work on that, though.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT