HUGEL-JTBC LA OPEN
April 21, 2018
Pernilla Lindberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Really good round today.  To play yourself back into this tournament, how do you feel heading into tomorrow?
PERNILLA LINDBERG: You know, I played really steady today, so it was nice to see again.  I felt like yesterday was -- I kind of lost it there for a day, I guess.
Yeah, just nice to be able to turn it around so quickly and bring myself back into it today.  Hopefully no one runs away -- the top runs away too far ahead of me.
No, I mean, this is what I want on a moving day, so I'm happy.
Q. It actually looks like people are kind of coming back a little bit.  Do you think it was maybe an advantage to play earlier today?
PERNILLA LINDBERG: A little bit.  I feel like the wind for sure picked up a little bit more over last five, six holes.  So was really calm at least at the start.
And I think too it can almost get a little crusty out there today because the temperatures are obviously a little bit warmer.  Some of the pins are tough.
Yeah, it's going to be hard to get close to some of them, especially if the wind is blowing.
Q. Right.  You weren't in this position at ANA.  You led the entire time.
PERNILLA LINDBERG: Exactly.
Q. But the fact that pulled that off, does that maybe make you think like, Here we go again?
PERNILLA LINDBERG: Yeah, you know, just being able to lead a tournament and win the way I did obviously gives me so much confidence.  Now it feels like no matter the situation I can go out there and believe in myself and know I can do it.
Obviously it's different when you're chasing someone.  It's not just in my control it feels like.  I can just go out and try to play well, and then I'll have to see what the leaders are doing.
No, obviously I'm still riding on that high confidence boost from what I did a the ANA.
Q. Does it feel any different when you are putting together a really good round?
PERNILLA LINDBERG: You know, not that different.  I been out here long enough where it feels pretty similar.  Only difference, and it makes a big difference, is that I have that little bit more confidence.
Confidence is everything in golf.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT