HUGEL-JTBC LA OPEN
April 19, 2018
Pernilla Lindberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What's it been like for you, this whirlwind?  
PERNILLA LINDBERG: That was the word I was going to use.  It's been really busy, and I kind of -- I'm running on like a high because I feel a little bit low on energy right now because it's been so busy.   
But at the same time, when I get out here I'm enjoying playing so much that that kind of keeps me going.   
But, yeah, it's just been busy.  If it's not been interviews or trying to get back to people, answer e-mails and things like that.  When I finally got to the course and to the tournaments everyone wants to stop and say hi and share their thoughts with me and things like that.   
You know what?  I'm loving it.  It's so much fun.  How often do you get to do that?  So I'm really kind of just embracing it.  Both last week in Hawaii and this week I had probably the least productive practice days ever.   
But you know what?  It's fine.  I'm just enjoying it.  I'm taking it for what it is.   
 Q.  How many people from your home club did you hear from?  
PERNILLA LINDBERG: Oh, a lot.  Hard to say.  My parents, probably even more people from my home club would've reached out to them than to me.   
I keep getting e-mails from members in their 80s that have seen me like since I was this little at home.  Yeah, it's just nice to know I have such a big fan club back there.   
 Q.  What was it like in Sweden in terms of news coverage?  
PERNILLA LINDBERG: So my friends, like my best friends at home, they don't follow golf at all.  They're not golfers.   
They were saying I was on the main news; I was in the free newspaper they handout in the subway in Stockholm that they were reading on their way to work.  It was in there.   
So it seemed like it was getting coverage more than just over the sports news.   
 Q.  Cool.  
PERNILLA LINDBERG: It was nice to see.   
 Q.  Your golf game, you're still carrying on not only the high feeling, but carrying through in your game, too.  Is this just a confidence high you're riding?  
PERNILLA LINDBERG: I think so.  Yes and no.  When you're playing good golf everything feels a little bit easier.  Just managed to kind of stay with me.   
I tend to have spells throughout the years when I'm playing better and spells when I'm probably not playing as good.  Right now I'm carrying that good play on.   
Also, if I am in a tough situation out there, that's when that little boost of confidence for sure kicks in.  Or if I'm in a tricky situation, it more feels like I have an attitude of I'm more fearless out there.  I just feel like I don't have as much to prove to anyone anymore.   
I feel like I can play a little bit more free because of that.   
 Q.  How long are your parents still with you?  
PERNILLA LINDBERG: They're leaving after this week.   
 Q.  That'll be kind of a downer.  
PERNILLA LINDBERG: I know, but it's been a good month for them.   
 Q.  I guess so.  
PERNILLA LINDBERG: Always when they come over they try to come for -- four weeks is probably the longest they've been, but they usually try to come for three weeks or so.  They figured this was a good stretch; get to see three events within four weeks.   
There is a direct flight from Stockholm to L.A., so it's easy to -- they flew here before Palm Springs and are flying home from here.   
 Q.  So your good friend Aza was on the green on 18 when you won.  She's playing well now.  Most of us had no idea about what was going on with her health.  I'm sure you did.  
PERNILLA LINDBERG: Yeah.   
 Q.  How fun is it to watch her get over a hump?  
PERNILLA LINDBERG: It's so nice.  I know how hard she's been working for the last few years even though she's not been feeling tip-top.   
I think, I hope, and I know she told me too, just being out there watching me win inspired her a little bit.   
I'm glad to see she's doing really well health-wise and enjoying life again.  That's when you play your best golf.   
 Q.  You went to Ping headquarters.  Did you get your gold putter yet?  
PERNILLA LINDBERG: No.  It takes them a while to talk it.   
 Q.  That's cool though.  
PERNILLA LINDBERG: Yes, very cool.  I'm excited.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT