ANA INSPIRATION
April 2, 2018
Pernilla Lindberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I do not know how you pronounce bulldog in Swedish, but whatever it is, you were tenacious out there.  What did you prove to yourself all week and especially today?
PERNILLA LINDBERG: I mean, I just know I'm a grinder, and it was just, I said yesterday, I just felt this is mine.  I'm going to do this.  I just knew I could, and I just kept fighting away.  I couldn't believe when that last putt went in.
The first thing I said when I holed that last putt was I know Inbee's going to hole hers too, so I started thinking about the 17th hole again, but she didn't.  It was mine.
Q. You're one of three players who have slept on the lead four straight nights.  I know it's an oddity, but it's also a whole lot of pressure.  What did you tell yourself each and every morning getting ready for this?
PERNILLA LINDBERG: I just looked at every day as the same thing again.  And today, even though it was playoff whatever, I just felt like I went out, did my same routine, and every night I've just been doing my routine.  I just felt so calm.  I felt like this could be mine.
Q. 250 professional golf tournaments between the LPGA, LET and Symetra Tour, your first ever win.  How long have you dreamt of this moment?
PERNILLA LINDBERG: Since I was a kid.  I mean, for as long as I can remember.  I remember writing some goals probably right when I got to high school.  Writing about the dream scenario, and it would be to obviously win a major championship and leave a mark in history.  But at the same time it felt like too big of a dream to come true, but it has.
Q. You also got to join the list of other great country women in this sport, and you got to do it in front of your parents.  Describe that emotion?
PERNILLA LINDBERG: It's so cool.  The only reason I'm playing golf is because of them.  I'm so happy they're here.  I've probably given my dad I don't know how many heart attacks over the last few days, but I'm just so happy they're here and get to see this and we get to celebrate it together.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT