ANA INSPIRATION
April 1, 2018
Pernilla Lindberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Wow, what a gritty performance.  We are all learning more about you, Pernilla Lindberg.  We learned a lot about you down the stretch battling against Jennifer Song and Inbee Park.  Were you nervous, because you didn't look like it out there?  
PERNILLA LINDBERG: I really wasn't there at the end.  I felt great warming up today, but the first few holes I was a little nervous.  But then I kind of settled down and I really felt like I was back in business after a few holes.  Then I just kept grinding all day.   
You know, these extra holes, of course, I want to be out there beating the girls, but it feels like we have nothing to lose.  I've been fighting all day.  This is just a bonus in the end being in the playoff now.  So I wasn't nervous at all during the playoff.   
 Q.  At what point in regulation when you started making a couple birdies coming in did you really feel the momentum coming in?  
PERNILLA LINDBERG: I didn't look at the leaderboard all day.  I just had a number in my head all day and that number was 16, so that was a good guess.  Obviously, I didn't get to 16, but I knew, actually, walking off the 18th, Daniel, my caddie, told me I had to make a birdie to get into the playoff, and I did it.   
But, otherwise, I really feel like I hit a good iron shot into the 5th hole this morning, and that was kind of where I started to feel like I was hitting good shots and giving myself chances.  Then I hit it in really close for my first birdie of the day on 8, and that's when I really felt like some momentum coming my way.   
 Q.  I just talked to Inbee, how impressed she was watching you, somebody who has not only never won a tournament but never won a major before down the stretch, she said it was incredible.  As you think about waking up tomorrow and going against her, a seven-time major winner, how inspiring is that?  
PERNILLA LINDBERG: It's so cool.  I almost get goose bumps now while you're telling me about it.  Inbee's one of the best female golfers of all time.  So to even have a chance to go out and beat her in a playoff, I think I'm going to sleep great tonight, and I'm going to be ready to go in the morning.   
 Q.  A lot of these people in the standing and around here worldwide cheering for you and enjoying the moment.  You go enjoy the moment and we'll see you in the morning.  
PERNILLA LINDBERG: Thank you.   
 Q.  You had to be the greatest putter in the world today inside 5 feet.  I've never seen anybody poor them in like that.  What's going on there?  
PERNILLA LINDBERG: I've always said that the putting has been the strength of my game.  Like I told you yesterday, I just love these greens.  I'm seeing the lines, I'm starting it great, and I just feel really confident with the putter in my hand.   
 Q.  Well, the other thing is you've never been in this position before, but we've been saying that all week, and yet time and time again you've exceeded expectations out here.  How do you remain as calm as you have given these circumstances?  
PERNILLA LINDBERG: I'm just sticking to myself.  I'm kind of just keeping my head down.  Not really looking at anyone else.  I've just been building confidence each and every day.  I see that I can beat this golf course day after day.  I'm just sticking to one target, one swing at a time, all those clichés.  But I'm just kind of grinding away, keeping my head down, but smiling at the same time.   
 Q.  Emotions are always a big thing in this game, knowing that you have to make birdie on 18 and you do it, how do you keep from getting so overly pumped up after that and then go back and play in a playoff?  
PERNILLA LINDBERG: I don't know.  I just had this calm to me the whole week.  I really feel like I'm here on a mission, and I'm just plugging away, trying to get to the top.  Yeah, I just really felt just a steady calm.  I know what I have to do, and I'm just kind of plugging away doing it.   
 Q.  What will you do the rest of the night tonight, same things?  
PERNILLA LINDBERG: A super quick dinner.  Probably another stop at Chipotle which has been the go-to the last few nights.  I've played in the last group three out of four days here, so I've had some quick dinners.  Yeah, I think I'll sleep great tonight.   
I have nothing to lose tomorrow.  I've been out there for a long time today, so I'll be ready to put my head on the pillow.   
 Q.  Is that the attitude, you have nothing to lose tomorrow?  
PERNILLA LINDBERG: Absolutely.  And that's how I felt in the playoffs today, too.  It's just a bonus being in this situation.  I did all the hard work during the 72 holes to put myself in this position.  So now, yeah, it's just all to win.   
 Q.  Did you see anything on the last playoff hole?  At that point had you played 18 enough that you needed to?  
PERNILLA LINDBERG: No, I mean, they asked us quickly after the third playoff hole if we wanted to do one more, and both Inbee and I looked at each other quickly and said, yes, and we moved back.  I think we're both ready to win this thing.   
Like you said, I think we've played it enough times that I know on 18 to start off I had a red stake at my target.  I couldn't see the red stake anymore, but I knew which peek at the clubhouse I was aiming at so that helped, and kind of knowing what the ball is doing around the hole.   
 Q.  Challenge after challenge, and then the light runs out on you, and even at the end, you're putting with shadows on the green?  
PERNILLA LINDBERG: I'm always up for a challenge.  If someone had to ask me how to describe myself, I would say that I'm competitive and I'm a fighter and a grinder, and I got to show that today.   
 Q.  When was the last time you played golf in this dark?  
PERNILLA LINDBERG: I was trying to think about that, but it's probably a long time ago.  I was just thinking it's probably one of those nights when you were a kid and just having fun out on the course.  You could do it then, so just try to have the same attitude today.   
 Q.  Did you think that your approach and that your lay-up shot here was still on the fairway?  
PERNILLA LINDBERG: I did, but that was a 5-iron.  The wind has been blowing pretty good at the end here now.  That was my best long iron shot all week, so I really thought it was on the fairway, but, yeah, it just went through.   
 Q.  All the chances you've gotten with these playoff holes, do you think this has to be meant to be for you?  
PERNILLA LINDBERG: I mean, I choose to look at it that way, absolutely.  It certainly feels that way, but I still need to go out there and get the job done tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT