CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 17, 2017
Pernilla Lindberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How do you assess today's round?  5-under, no bogeys.
PERNILLA LINDBERG: Yeah, I'm really happy.  I feel like I stayed very patient out there.  I started off giving myself chances and not really making them, and it paid off at the end because I finished birdie, birdie, birdie my last three holes.
Second day in a row without a bogey, so it felt very stress-free out there.  Any stress-free day on the golf course is always a nice day.
Q. Is there something about this course that suits you?
PERNILLA LINDBERG: To be honest, I haven't really figured this course out the last few years, but I feel like going into to this year I am just striking it pretty good.  I've been hitting it good off the tee for the last few weeks.  That's really what is setting me up for not really making any mistakes out there.
Q. What was working in particular for you today?  Any part your game specifically?
PERNILLA LINDBERG: Everything was pretty solid, my irons.  I just never put myself in much trouble.  That was the big thing.  I gave myself lots of chances, hit mostly every green, and then the greens are so pure.
So as soon as I have the putter in my hands it feels like a good opportunity out there.
Q. Talk about your fast and furious finish the last three holes, birdie, birdie, birdie, and what happened on 18?
PERNILLA LINDBERG: Yeah, 16, the par-3, was probably my best shot all day.  Pretty tough par-3 today.  I hit a 5-iron into a tucked back pin there and hit a great shot in to about 12 feet and holed that.
Then 17, which is very reachable par-5 this week, I flared my drive a little bit right and just didn't have a good angle, even though it was a very reachable number.
So my caddie and I, we kind of decided to just lay it up.  So I hit a pitching wedge to lay up and then a 54-degree wedge in and hit that to about three feet.
So that course management just paid off there.
And then 18, tough pin today that you don't really go at.  I was playing for of the middle of the green and just missed my second shot a little bit to the right, so I had to putt all across the whole green.
I had a flashback from that pin from last year.  I remember it's not as quick as it looks towards the end, so this year I hit it a little bit harder than I remember doing before and it trickled right into the hole.
Q. How long would you say that putt was approximately?
PERNILLA LINDBERG: Oh, it was probably...
Q. Across country?
PERNILLA LINDBERG: 100 feet I'm guessing.
Q. Have you holed a longer one in competition?
PERNILLA LINDBERG: Not one that I can recall right now.  It's a pretty wide green.  No, that one is for sure up there.  I would say absolutely in the top three.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT