U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP 2017
July 15, 2017
Pernilla Lindberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How was the course different today than it was the first two rounds?
PERNILLA LINDBERG: I would say for us being first out in the morning, obviously we didn't have much wind until the last few holes so that just made it play a little more friendly for me compared to that first day.  Then obviously a lot dryer than yesterday.
And the biggest thing yesterday was the air was just really heavy, I felt, so the ball didn't fly as far.  Today with the sun being out, I just felt like I could get my normal distances out of my shots again.
Q. Christina was saying on 16, she hit 5 yesterday and today was a 9 or something?
PERNILLA LINDBERG: Yeah, it was some holes that really been playing differently.  I think that USGA has set up the course really well for us.  They have kind of taken some of those adjustments and, you know, made some tougher pins where they can and some easier pins.  So I think they've set up the course great.
At the same time, even though the weather has been different over the three days, it doesn't feel like the course has been playing that different, not maybe as different as you would think.
Q. The USGA is known for having the greens be super fast.  They are not super fast, are they?
PERNILLA LINDBERG: They are pretty quick, yeah.  Don't get fooled.  They are for sure quick.  Yesterday with all the rain in the air, they were for sure a little bit slower.  But this morning they were rolling out pretty good again, absolutely.
Q. The greens are receptive, though, I imagine?
PERNILLA LINDBERG: They are, which is why I feel like Christina and I could post good numbers first thing in the morning.
I hit my irons pretty high so I felt like I could be aggressive to a lot of pins because I knew they would stop.  Some of these pin placements out there, if it was firm it would for sure be a lot tougher.
Q. Tougher pin placements today?
PERNILLA LINDBERG: Probably a few of them.  I think it's been pretty fair each and every day.  Every day has had the pins where you can be more aggressive and some pins tougher.  Overall, probably just a little tougher today, yes.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT