OLYMPIC GAMES RIO 2016: GOLF
August 16, 2016
Pernilla Lindberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Pernilla, describe to me the Olympic experience so far.   
PERNILLA LINDBERG: Getting out on the golf course, it just comes down to golf but everything around it is such a cool experience. Just being in the village and seeing all other athletes, working out in the gym next to athletes from all other kind of sports, it's a once‑in‑a‑lifetime kind of thing.   
Just being in the dining hall and all of‑‑ I don't need much more than that to just have a cool experience. But then being able to watch a couple other sports, too, has been really cool.  
   
 Q. Which ones have you watched?  
PERNILLA LINDBERG: I actually so far have just been to handball. I watched Sweden play the other evening, and then I've been hanging out in kind of our Swedish team room in our building in the evenings watching lots of sports on TV. Sitting next to some of our track and field athletes watching track and field and kind of hearing their kind of comments and insights has been pretty cool, and same with other sports, too.   
   
 Q. Who has been sort of biggest hero you've met so far?  
PERNILLA LINDBERG: In Swedish eyes, we have Sarah Sjöström who took three of our medals in swimming. She's our Swedish hero, I would say. I had dinner with Bubba Watson and Rickie Fowler the first night I was here, which was pretty cool. I went to school with Rickie, so that's how I ended up catching up with them.   
Then I saw the whole U.S. women's gymnastic team at breakfast the other morning. I didn't stop and talk to them but it was just pretty cool to see them after watching them on TV after all of last week.  
   
 Q. And Daniel is your boyfriend; he's your regular caddie through the year?  
PERNILLA LINDBERG: Yes.  
   
 Q. What's it like being able to share this Olympic experience with him?  
PERNILLA LINDBERG: It's so cool, a goal we have been able to share for a few years and work towards, and to be able to go here together and see it together is a little different than if I came home and just had to tell him about it, that's for sure.  
   
 Q. What about the golf course? What do you like about it and what do you find difficult?  
PERNILLA LINDBERG: I like that it doesn't feel or look like a brand new golf course. It just looks like it's been sitting here for a long time. It fits in so well in the environment I think. It's a good, tough test, which it should be for a major championship like this.   
I think it's going to be fair and yeah, it's going to be a good test for us. But I like it.   
   
 Q. Were you inspired by watching Henrik Stenson obviously getting the silver medal?  
PERNILLA LINDBERG: Absolutely. I went out and watched the last few holes on Sunday. I for sure didn't want to miss that. It's just really impressive the golf he's been playing. I saw actually the viewer numbers from Sweden on Sunday watching the golf, and I couldn't believe that so many people actually were watching golf. I think it said 2.2 million people were at least watching five minutes of it, and we're only a population of 9 million people. So for golf to get that kind of attention, I think it's just really cool.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT