JTBC FOUNDERS CUP
March 17, 2016
Pernilla Lindberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What was working for you out there, 7-under?  Gotta feel pretty good about that start.  
PERNILLA LINDBERG: Yeah.  Absolutely.  I mean mostly my putter was really hot, but at the same time I was never far from the hole either.  So I mean if it was any part of the game I feel like I could improve is a couple of drives that just leaked a little right on me, but everything else was very steady, and I was very comfortable out there, rolled in a couple of good putts on the first few holes and that kind of kept me going.   
 Q.  Five players at 7-under or better and the afternoon wave hasn't even started.  Is that just a sign of how good the girls are out here, and is the course playing a little easier?  Daniel said it was playing a little easier last year he felt like with the wind down a little bit, the greens are perfect.  
PERNILLA LINDBERG: Yeah.  I mean if golf could ever have like perfect conditions, I mean it almost feels like you're playing in a dome.  Like today is the most similar to that.   
 Q.  Yeah.  It's 80, no wind.  
PERNILLA LINDBERG: Yeah.  But then, also, the level of the competition out here is just that good.  So when you give us these kind of perfect conditions, some of the girls take advantage of it.   
But it was funny, Daniel and I walked on the 17th green, we looked up at the leaderboard, and we were like, oh, those look like scores after two days, and we're in the morning of the first round.   
No, it's one of those weeks if the weather stays like this, you just have to keep making birdies.   
 Q.  How important is it do you make sure you maintain your spot on the Olympic team and the International Crown team?  I mean the crown team is pretty filled up, but I know Olympics is something you want to play in for sure.  
PERNILLA LINDBERG: Absolutely.  I mean those two things are two big goals this year, but at the same time I don't want to get too caught up in it.  I kind of just want to go out every week and do my best, and that's the best way to keep my ranking or even move up on the ranking.  But it's something, every day when I've been practicing this off season or before this, it's motivating, especially that Olympic spot.   
 Q.  I think they say the Olympics gets something like three times the ratings just for the average event that the final round of the Masters could do.  What do you think that means for women's golf going forward?  You see the growth of the game here this week with the junior golf program going from 5,000 to 50,000.  I mean are you excited about what that could do the next four years?  
PERNILLA LINDBERG: Oh, absolutely.  I think it's huge for women's golf, and I think that's why we on the LPGA Tour, the women's golfers, we are really excited about the Olympics.  I think the guys might not really be pumped up the same way as we are, but I think we just really realize what a chance this is to show the rest of the world how good we are and how exciting it is to watch us.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT