CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 20, 2015
Pernilla Lindberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  4-under par round, what was really working well in your game?  
PERNILLA LINDBERG: Short game and putting.  To be honest, I really didn't strike the ball very good today, but I really feel like I found something in my putting yesterday when I was practicing.  And my putting has been the strongest part of my game for a long time, and this summer it's been a little frustrating because my ball striking has been good, but my putting hasn't been up to the same level.   
But, yeah, like I said, it feels like I found something in my putting yesterday, and I walked up with a lot of confidence on the greens today and that paid off.   
 Q.  They're tricky greens out here too.  So is that a big key for this week to get that flat stick working?  
PERNILLA LINDBERG: Yeah, I think so.  Obviously, your ball striking, it helps if it's good so you can be on the right side of the pin.  But, no, it always comes down to making putts, and the greens are pretty slippery, so, yeah, it helps when you feel confident with the putter.   
 Q.  This course they say the two nines are very different.  Is there one that seems to suit you better that you feel like you have to take advantage of this week?  
PERNILLA LINDBERG: I would say just for my eye I feel like the back nine suits me better because everything is more in front of you, so maybe all girls would say that that suits you better.  But I played good on both sides today.  But if I just had to favor one side, I would probably say the back nine.   
 Q.  So it's an important week for both Solheim Cup teams as both teams will be announced next week.  Is it something that you let yourself think about as you're playing or have you tried to not think too much about it?  
PERNILLA LINDBERG: Of course it's something that comes up on everyone's mind.  But as soon as it does, I try not to really think about it because I just want to go out and play as good as I can because I'd really like to be on that team.  But at this point for me it's really going to have to come down to a pick, and I can't do anything else than just go out and try to play and see what happens.   
 Q.  Having had the experience like last year in International Crown and playing for Sweden, does that help give you confidence of going in to something like this though that you kind of showed what you can do, especially in that singles match that was a pretty good win right there?  
PERNILLA LINDBERG: Yeah, absolutely.  I get to play a lot of match play growing up in Europe, and most of our big amateur events are match play format.  But then since turning pro I haven't had a chance to play much match play.  I think last year getting that experience at International Crown was great, and obviously I played some of my best golf that week too.  So I would love to have the opportunity to play in a similar format again.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT