SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY ACER
May 30, 2015
Pernilla Lindberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Well, solid day, up‑and‑down day, some bogeys but some birdies.   Take me through anything that stuck out.   
PERNILLA LINDBERG:   Yeah, I mean, really both yesterday and today I really came back strong at the end with a couple birdies.   I mean, that's always a nice feeling to finish off the round like that.   But I really felt like I got kind of rewarded for staying patient in the wind towards the end today.   It was getting tougher and tougher out there, and I think everyone is going to make a few bogeys, and of course I would like to take them off the scorecard, but at least I could bounce back with some birdies, too.  
   
 Q.   Everyone keeps talking about patience always, but here just because of the wind, because of the fescue‑‑  
PERNILLA LINDBERG:   Exactly.   It is a penalizing course for sure, as well as the greens, they tend to get a little bumpy, so you can hit some good putts and feel like you get penalized when they don't go in.   I feel like I've been able to handle those things pretty well and just kind of shook them off and kept going.   That's what I'm going to try to do tomorrow, too.  
   
 Q.   How many times have you played this course?  
PERNILLA LINDBERG:   I was a rookie in 2010 and I've played it every year, so I guess this is my sixth time playing here, and it's actually kind of funny because I've always said that I really like the layout of this course, I like the look of it, but for some reason it's never fit my game before.   Even this year I was almost considering taking this week off, but you know what, I was like, I'm up for the challenge, I like the layout, let's just go in and figure it out this year.  
   
 Q.   What did you do last week, a week off?  
PERNILLA LINDBERG:   Week off, I had actually my coach from Sweden in Orlando with me, so we put some good work in.   It's starting to get hot in Orlando so we were on the range early in the morning to make sure we beat the heat, but it was really nice to see him and figure a few things out that I haven't been happy with the last few weeks.  
   
 Q.   What were they specifically?  
PERNILLA LINDBERG:   I mean, to go into detail, I've started to kind of get a swing direction that's out too far to the right, and I've started flipping my hands a little too much.   I'm just covering the ball better now so keeping the face more square through impact and really started to be able to shape the ball a little more, which has been really helpful in the wind here.  
   
 Q.   Everyone says creativity and kind of approach shots here are so key.   
PERNILLA LINDBERG:   Exactly, so that's why I feel if I would have been hitting the ball like I was in Kingsmill, there I could only hit it right to left.   Now I feel like I can work the ball both ways again, so that's really helped.  
   
 Q.   Coach's name?  
PERNILLA LINDBERG:   Patrick Jonsson, J‑o‑n‑s‑s‑o‑n.  
   
 Q.   How long have you been with him?  
PERNILLA LINDBERG:   I guess it's like three full years.   He started to kind of see me in like 2011, but yeah, probably like the last three or four years more full time.  
   
 Q.   How often do you guys see each other throughout the year?  
PERNILLA LINDBERG:   I would say on average we get to see each other about every six weeks throughout the year.  
   
 Q.   Does he come over?  
PERNILLA LINDBERG:   Exactly.   He's actually the head coach for the Swedish national team, so he managed to come over to a lot of events.   Also he comes over to check out all the Swedish college players, so he comes over to the U.S. quite a bit, so then I manage to see him.   
   
 Q.   Anything else?   Anything about the round?  
PERNILLA LINDBERG:   No, I think that sums it up pretty well.  
   
 Q.   Well, three‑day event, everyone says being in position early is key.   That has to feel good going into Sunday?  
PERNILLA LINDBERG:   Yeah, I haven't really thought that much about it because I kind of put my head down and just tried to play good, but now you realize, oh, it's just one day to go, so it is nice to put two nice rounds together for sure.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT