INTERNATIONAL CROWN
July 27, 2014
Pernilla Lindberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Very decisive win.   Just take me through the match.   What were some of the key moments for you today?  
PERNILLA LINDBERG:   I started off with a birdie on the first hole.   I rolled in a putt from probably about 10‑12 feet.   So obviously that was a nice start.   
Then I kind of rolled in a really good par‑save putt after hitting it in the green side bunker on 3.   So that kind of kept my momentum going. Then on 6, the par‑3, I hit probably my best iron shot of the week, a 5‑iron that landed in the hole and hit the pin.   So I actually took a chunk out of the hole.   It came out and I missed my putt, but that was such a great shot.   
After that, my ball striking was so good the rest of the day that I didn't even have to work much for my birdie putts, I hit it so close.  
   
 Q.   You and Mikaela couldn't seem to get wins in the first couple days and yet you guys were playing so well.   Did you feel like yesterday and today you really fed off of that, how well you've been playing?  
PERNILLA LINDBERG:   Absolutely.   After the first day we were kind of slow starters against Japan.   But then against Korea, the second day, we played so well.   So it was a little frustrating not getting a point on that board, because if we would have played any other pairing that day, I think we would have walked away with a win.   
But it was nice that we didn't drop our heads.   We kind of just went at it yesterday and kept playing the same way and took our two points early.   I just felt as good today and I just felt so confident that when I went to 1, I was just so fired to get to 2 and just kept going.   So it was fun.   
   
 Q.   What did you guys do last night?   Did you do anything as a team kind of motivating knowing that really this is wide open today to whichever team plays well?  
PERNILLA LINDBERG:   We didn't finish very late out here, but we still had to stick around to see what was happening.   When we got back into town, we had a reservation at a restaurant all together, coaches, family members, so it was 15 of us having dinner together.   So it was kind of low key, but we were all just having dinner together and it was nice.   We all know what we had to do today, so we didn't have a big pep talk or anything, but, no, we just had a nice relaxing evening.  
   
 Q.   How did you guys kind of decide on your pairings?   When you were looking at singles pools, what was the thought process?   I mean, you knew countries, but how did you guys break it down?  
PERNILLA LINDBERG:   We had a little bit of thought process there.   To be honest, we saw the Spain pairing or we knew one of us was going to play against Spain.   To be honest, Anna, Caroline, and myself, we were really close with all those Spanish girls.   Because we're all about the same age, we have grown up so much playing against each other.   So we actually put Mikaela there, just because sometimes it's hard to play against someone you're really close with.   
So that was that taken care of.   Caroline just stepped up, and this was even before the playoff, she said, I'll play against U.S. or Korea and take the lead.   
And then between Japan and Thailand, me and Anna was kind of 50/50, but it was nice to have Caroline leading us off and then Anna being the last one.   So that was kind of the thought process.  
   
 Q.   Overall the experience this week of this competition, what has it been like?  
PERNILLA LINDBERG:   I think for me, personally, it just feels like I have gotten to show myself on the biggest stage so far that I've been on and it feels like I've really taken advantage of that and it's been so much fun.   The event has just been over expectations, I think, for everyone.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT