JAMIE FARR TOLEDO CLASSIC PRESENTED BY KROGER, OWENS CORNING AND O-I
August 10, 2012
Pernilla Lindberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   I'd like to welcome Pernilla Lindberg to the interview room.   Thanks for joining us.   First off, you had the overnight lead.   Can you talk about how it was sleeping last night. 
PERNILLA LINDBERG:   Yeah, I actually slept really good.   I think I handled the situation better than I would have a while ago.   Just like we were talking about yesterday, I've been playing good in Europe lately, been up in the lead there a few times.   I feel more and more comfortable every time I'm there. 
I also started working with a mental coach just a few weeks ago.   First time I talked to him was at Evian, about two weeks ago.   I only talked to him twice, but those two, two and a half hours I spent with him helped me as well. 
THE MODERATOR:   Can you take me through the day.   The conditions were bad towards the end. 
PERNILLA LINDBERG:   It was pretty tough out there today, quite windy.   Of course, I played really early yesterday and the greens were perfect.   Today you could tell there were 144 girls that had stepped on them. 
But like you said, it picked up, the wind, a little bit at the end, made it a little trickier, especially on a few tee shoots especially on doglegs where it's driver or not.   I thought I hung in there and ended up with a few straight pars, so I'll take it. 
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
PERNILLA LINDBERG:   I mean, I just made a few more bogeys, a couple tee shots out in the rough, in the trees where I pretty much just have to pitch out, try to save a par. 
Besides that, it was my putting.   I didn't putt bad today, not at all.   It's not every day that you can drain as many putts as I did yesterday.

Q.   Despite the fact you're no longer in the lead, you're only two shots out.   Really good position. 
PERNILLA LINDBERG:   Absolutely.   This is a position I'm very happy with.   I'm not disappointed at all losing the lead.   I think I'm in a good position going into the weekend. 
THE MODERATOR:   What is your game plan heading into the weekend?   Are you going to be more aggressive? 
PERNILLA LINDBERG:   No, I'm going to stick to the same game plan as I've had.   I think I've been as aggressive as I can the first two days.   No, just stick to the same plan.   The only thing that could change anything would be conditions, but it looks like I'll just stick to what I've done.

Q.   What prompted you to visit with a mental coach?   What do you hope to gain from that? 
PERNILLA LINDBERG:   The biggest reason I started talking to him was, like I mentioned in here yesterday, I think my self‑confidence has not been as high when I've been in the States playing on the LPGA Tour as on the European Tour.   There's no reason it shouldn't be as high.   That's where we started with. 
We just had two simple talks.   But just talking about those feelings and everything helps.   It feels like when you get them out of your head, they're not as scary anymore. 
I think it's just simple little things, but it has helped my self‑confidence. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
PERNILLA LINDBERG:   These two days I played with two great girls, Courtney Harter and Jane Park.   We've been chatting a lot.   I like doing that just to keep my mind on the right thing between shots.   Then when I'm at the ball, it's, What is my target?   That's probably the only thought in my head. 

Q.   What have you decided has been the difference between the European Tour and here as far as the way you responded to it?
PERNILLA LINDBERG:   I know the difference.   It is much more competitive out here.   This is where the best players in the world are playing.   I think that when I've been to Europe, I've put myself a little bit higher.   There's no reason I shouldn't look at myself as one of the top players here, too. 
So that's really the approach of walking into every tournament, is stop thinking about that I have to make the cut.   It's more thinking about, How can I win this tournament?   Just try to raise my expectations a little bit there and focus on the right thing. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
PERNILLA LINDBERG:   It was good.   I think they had a few drinks by the time we were there.   I don't know if they're going to be able to leave the grandstands. 
I had some Ping hats that I threw out to them, so I think that was appreciated. 

Q.   Someone made a hole‑in‑one there this morning. 
PERNILLA LINDBERG:   I saw that.   So I guess the car is gone. 

Q.   So you didn't have to worry about that. 
PERNILLA LINDBERG:   I would take the hole‑in‑one still. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT