JAMIE FARR TOLEDO CLASSIC PRESENTED BY KROGER, OWENS CORNING AND O-I
August 9, 2012
Pernilla Lindberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Pernilla, great round, 7‑under par, 64.   Can you just take me through the day?   
PERNILLA LINDBERG:   Yeah, thank you so much.   I had a great day on the greens.   It was really my putting that was the key today.   I obviously put myself in good positions to make those putts.   But it felt like every putt I hit all day had a chance to go in.   So even the pars I made out there, they were still good birdie chances.  
   
 Q.   You had a good week last week at the Ladies Irish Open.   You started out with the first round lead and finished third?   
PERNILLA LINDBERG:   Fourth, yeah.  
   
 Q.   That had to help your confidence coming into this week?  
PERNILLA LINDBERG:   Absolutely.   It felt like I've been working pretty hard on my game for the last couple of months.   In June, I felt that my game was going in the right direction, but I didn't get the scores out.   Then over Evian, especially the Irish Open last week, I felt more and more confident and the things that I've been working on are finally showing on the course.   So it felt like I had some momentum coming into this week.  
   
 Q.   Looks like the weather is looking bad this afternoon.   Are you happy with what you've done?   
PERNILLA LINDBERG:   Of course.   When I saw the draw on Tuesday afternoon when it came out, I knew that the forecast was looking like storms Thursday afternoon.   So when I saw my early time, I was happy and figured, okay, I'll go out and take advantage of it.  
   
 Q.   How good a day did you have?   How many putts did you take?   Hit any long birds?   
PERNILLA LINDBERG:   Yeah, putting, let's see.   I could count them.   I haven't yet, but it's somewhere I would say around 25, probably.   But I haven't counted yet.   I really made some good, long putts as well.   I had a lot of birdie putts in the 30‑feet range that I actually made.  
   
 Q.   More than one of those?   
PERNILLA LINDBERG:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   How many did you make?   
PERNILLA LINDBERG:   Let's see.   I have to think through the holes here.   I started with my first birdie of the day on 4.   That was probably about a 20‑, 25‑footer.   5, it was during one of those heavy showers in the morning.   My shot into the green I thought was really good, but it came up a little short.   That putt was probably, I would say, 50 feet.   Like I said, every putt I hit it was just it felt like even though if it didn't go in, they had a good chance.   
So then 9, I hit it up to maybe 4 feet.   10, I hit it up to 3 feet.   12 was probably another of those 25 footers.   Then I actually made my first and only bogey of the day on 13.   I hit it up in the trees, punched it up short of the green.   Hit a good pitch shot up to four feet and missed that.   So that was my only little mistake on the scorecard.   But then I bounced right back with making another 40‑footer on 14, the par‑3 for birdie.   
Then 15 the next hole I hit it up to about 10 feet and made that.   Then on 18, that was probably 20, 25 feet.   So it was really‑‑ sure, I hit some close ones, but otherwise the putting was the key.  
   
 Q.   When was the last time that you had a day putting like this?   
PERNILLA LINDBERG:   I've had a few times, actually, over the year.   My putting has gotten a lot better over the last two years.   I switched to a belly putter two years ago, and it's been helping my game a lot.   I would say the putting is the most consistent part of my game now.   Even a bad day on the greens is really never that bad.   Then when I can get really hot on the green, like today, that's when I can shoot the really low scores.  
   
 Q.   If the Solheim Cup was next week, you'd be on the team.   I know you split your schedule a lot for that reason.   Can you talk about the way you scheduled and what that would mean to you?   
PERNILLA LINDBERG:   Yeah, so far in my career I've been playing a lot better in Europe.   It's been a confidence thing.   I've been going out and having really good results.   Just not brought the same confidence over to the U.S.   
But I've been lining up Top 10 finishes over there which has given me the Solheim Cup points.   Of course, it's nice to see my name high on that list.   I'm in second right now on the European Solheim Cup list, and that is absolutely a goal to stay up there.   
Coming down next year, of course, the points will be double compared to this year.   So we'll see what I have to do with the schedule next year.   If I feel that I need to play a few more events over there, I might need to do that because the Solheim Cup is a big goal.   But, hopefully, I can keep posting scores like this here and that will take care of it.  
   
 Q.   Did you sense a round like this coming today?   Is there any way to predict those things?   
PERNILLA LINDBERG:   No.   Golf is a funny game.   I got really sick.   I got a pretty bad cold over the weekend in Ireland, and I felt okay playing there.   But as soon as I relaxed after the last round on Sunday, it kind of just hit me.   Then I had a long day of traveling from Ireland on Monday.   So on Tuesday I didn't do anything.   I planned on playing a practice round, so yesterday in the Pro‑Am was my only practice round.   So even that, the preparation leading up to this week was not what I had planned for, but I guess that didn't really matter.  
   
 Q.   You're better known in Europe.   How important is it for you to do well here in the U.S. and make a name for yourself on the LPGA Tour where it's more of a household name?   
PERNILLA LINDBERG:   Yeah, of course.   That is one of my goals.   I've had a very good game and I've been able to show it over there.   But if I can start showing my name on the leaderboard more often here, it's going to give me more confidence, and it's, of course, what everyone wants.  
   
 Q.   That's a legitimately low number to be leading.   But at the same time this course gives out birdies, do you change anything for tomorrow?   
PERNILLA LINDBERG:   No, I think I had a pretty good strategy today.   There are a few holes where you can be really aggressive, and some holes where maybe they're playing a little bit longer and you just have to play towards the middle of the green maybe.   Some of the greens are quite small out here.   
Since I know how confident I am with my putting, you just have to be smart.   When you can attack and hit it up close to the pin, take advantage of that and otherwise play for the middle of the green and give yourself a 20‑ to 25‑footer and that is still a birdie chance.   
Strategy‑wise, it's still the same, and the conditions might change with how wet it is, and that can always change the plan a little bit.  
   
 Q.   Or 40, 50 feet gives you a birdie chance.   Who needs to be within 20?   When you stood up over the putt on 18, for example, you sort of felt you were going to make it?   
PERNILLA LINDBERG:   Yeah, that was kind of the feeling all day.   I actually missed the fairway on number 1 today.   That's not a fairway you want to miss because it is pretty thick on the sides there to get up to that first green.   I didn't really get it up on the green.   I was short of the bunker and hit that off to‑‑ I probably had a 20‑footer for par on 1 and made that.   I got the momentum going there.   After that, it felt like every putt I had a chance of making it.  
   
 Q.   How good was the shot into 18?   It looked like you sort of went through the branches a little bit?   
PERNILLA LINDBERG:   Yeah, I was a little lucky there with my second shot.   It stayed far enough out that I actually had a line just towards the pin.   But I hit it there with the 9‑iron, about 20 feet left of the pin.   I was really happy with that shot, and I was really lucky that it didn't go farther into those trees.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT