RR DONNELLEY LPGA FOUNDERS CUP
March 15, 2012
Pernilla Lindberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   So seven birdies today, two bogeys, 5‑under round.   You've gotta be pretty pleased at how you were able to play today.   
PERNILLA LINDBERG:   Yeah, absolutely.   A nice start.   I mean this is what you want to do the first day.   Yeah, I made a lot of birdies.   I still left some birdie putts out there and then a couple of bogeys, but I recovered well from them and then came back with birdies right after.   So yeah, I'm happy.  
   
 Q.   Was there one aspect of the game that was working better for you today than anything?  
PERNILLA LINDBERG:   No.   I was pretty steady.   I barely missed any fairways.   I was in the desert once on No. 9 and made a bogey.   But besides that I was steady off the tee, and yeah, overall hit a lot of fairways, hit a lot of greens, and like I said, I could have had more putts drop, but yeah, I was happy.  
   
 Q.   Everybody is talking about what great shape this course is in.   Is that what you're noticing out there, and what are kind of the keys to going low?  
PERNILLA LINDBERG:   Yeah, it's in really great shape.   The greens are so smooth that if you can start it on line, you know it's going to stay on that line.   And then the fairways are absolutely top shape, too.   And the rough is nice this year.   There's barely any rough out there.   
Now, it looks like a lot of long hitters are playing well, I think, on this course because if you hit it far, there's a lot of wedges and there's some reachable par‑5s, so then you can take advantage of those birdie opportunities.  
   
 Q.   How did you feel about your game coming into this week?   Is this round kind of how you've been feeling lately?  
PERNILLA LINDBERG:   Yeah.   I played two weeks ago, I played an LET event in China, and I played well and finished third over there, so I knew I had some good game in me and I was excited to start the U. S. season and hopefully keep that up.  
   
 Q.   When the domestic season starts going, we have a little bit more consistency with tournaments in straight weeks.   Is it nice to get going with that roll and kick off this part of the season?  
PERNILLA LINDBERG:   It is.   It really is.   I enjoy playing, and I know I get better when I play.   So I would so much better be out on the road every week than at home practicing, so yeah, I like getting into that rhythm.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT