CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 25, 2011
Pernilla Lindberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: All right, Pernilla, 7-under par 65 today, tied for the lead in the second to last group of the day. Tell us what went right for you today to shoot such a nice score?
 PERNILLA LINDBERG: I guess everything, pretty much. I was driving it great, barely missed a fairway and felt easy with my irons. If I was off, it wasn't by much. Then it was one of those days where you're not really in between clubs. I guess it's okay, this is a 7-iron, this is an 8-iron. 
 Then I think the best part was my putting, absolutely. I saw the lines good and they dropped.
 THE MODERATOR: On the way over you mentioned that you kind of feel a little bit at home here. It feels kind of European, and you ski, and you like hockey. Just talk about being here in Montreal? 
 PERNILLA LINDBERG: Yeah, I love being in Canada. When I was here for the CN Open last year in Winnipeg, that was the first time I was in Canada. But Montreal has even a little bit more European feel to it, which makes me feel like home, and all the players are pretty much in the same hotel, and I like that feeling because that's what I'm more used to on the European Tour. 
 Yeah, like you said, I grew up skiing so I guess I'm used to -- I mean, this kind of grass and everything that comes with it up north. So, yeah, it makes it feel a little bit more like home, for sure.

 Q. I've asked the other players that have come in with the good scores and just the way that some players all talked about the putter. But just the way of attacking this course because I think a lot of players had mentioned they were trying to be patient. When they had a chance, they jumped on it. But with these low scores, was that something you planned off the start that you were feeling good that you knew you could be aggressive and try to get a low round? 
 PERNILLA LINDBERG: I felt that the greens were pretty soft out there. I guess you had a lot of rain on Sunday before we came in, and then a little more rain this morning, so the greens were holding good. Then with me hitting a lot of fairways, then that makes you have a chance to be more aggressive I would say, especially when I felt good with my irons too. I could be aggressive. 
 Sure there were a few holes where you just need to be patient and stay below the hole. But besides that, I felt I could go for most of it. 
 THE MODERATOR: Can you talk about this year, how you've been playing, what your goals were, and what they are now? 
 PERNILLA LINDBERG: I came out as a rookie last year, and I had to go back to Q-school because I didn't play as good as I would have liked and know that I can. Started off good the first couple of tournaments this year, but then I've been struggling. Lately it's felt like I've been close, but I still haven't really gotten it together. 
 So of course I've been putting some pressure on myself to move up the money list. Today I was just patient, and finally all the good things that I know I have came together. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT