SWINGING SKIRTS LPGA TAIWAN CHAMPIONSHIP
October 22, 2018
Teresa Lu
Pernilla Lindberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  This is the first time that I'm playing in the LPGA Taiwan Championship.  How do you feel playing front of your hometown crowd?  
TERESA LU: The reason the LPGA is held in Taiwan is due to Chairman Whan's passion for golf.  I'm very excited to play here in front of my hometown crowd and the media presence and the gallery is very exciting.  I won't call myself the No. 1 player from Taiwan, but I'm just happy to play here this week.   
 Q.  How has your game changed since whipping the ANA Inspirational, your first major?  
PERNILLA LINDBERG: I would say my game probably hasn't really changed but for sure I'm walking out on the course every week with a lot more confidence.  The only thing I would say that has really changed is just how busy everything has been since my win, but it's been a good and fun busy.   
 Q.  Teresa, you haven't picked up any wins this year on the Japanese Tour.  Why?  Why no wins on the Japanese Tour this year?  
TERESA LU: Well, that's golf.  You can't win everything, but I hope I can try harder and win this week.   
 Q.  Teresa, who do you think is your biggest rival this week?  
TERESA LU: In golf, you don't really have a big rival.  Your rival is yourself.  I will be trying to shoot like 60s for four straight days.  If I do that, I will be happy with that and if somebody shoots a better score, then that's it.  I will just try my best.   
 Q.  Ms. Lindberg, first of all, I would like to congratulate you on your first major win this year.  The question is, I have been to Sweden before, and we know Sweden is not a really big country in terms of population, only like 8 million?  
PERNILLA LINDBERG: Close to 10 million now.   
 Q.  Okay.  That's the latest update.  Taiwan, we have 23 million people here, but I'm curious, how come Sweden is able to produce so many outstanding players like yourself?  What's the secret?  
PERNILLA LINDBERG: I think that the Swedish Golf Federation, they do a really good job supporting all kind of levels of golfers, all from juniors till you turn pro.  Even though Sweden is a small country and cold country, we have long winters, very short golf season.   
We love our golf.  We have almost 500 golf courses, and close to 500,000 registered golfers.  But really, I think the big reason that you see so many successful Swedish players on Tour, is the work the Federation does, but also, we have just the role models we have.  Look at the older generation now with Annika Sorenstam and everyone who has followed her.  That's who I grew up watching and we saw that they could do it, so that gives us inspiration.   
 Q.  Teresa, how do you feel about the difference playing on the Japanese Tour and LPGA Tour?  
TERESA LU: Of course, on the LPGA Tour, the intensity is stronger and the level of play is higher because you have all the best players from around the world.  Playing in Japan, most of the players are from Asia.   
The thing that really impressed me is that I won my first win for the LPGA on the Japanese Tour.  It's a co-sanctioned event.  That's a great achievement for me personally and fulfills my long-time aspirations and goal.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT