NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: BRUINS v PENGUINS
June 6, 2013
Matt Cooke
Pascal Dupuis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   For both of you, after a game like that no matter when you're going to play, just talk about the emotional and physical toll.   What do you do after that?   Is it tough to get to sleep, in terms of hydrating and taking nourishment and then the emotional toll, the way it ended?   
MATT COOKE:   Any time you lose a game in overtime you go through mixed emotions throughout the course of a game, and your chances and whatnot.   I think physical toll, I think that Playoffs are a grueling time and you prepare yourself for that, and you gear up for that through the regular season.   There may be some fatigue, but you have two days to gear up to go again, and I think that our guys do a great job of being in shape and being ready to go.   
PASCAL DUPUIS:   Yeah, pretty much the same thing, yeah.   It's the Playoffs.   That's what you play for, and whatever you need to get ready for the next game, I think guys are professional on our team, and the staff has been helping quite a bit, too, with doing shakes and bringing food and everything through the overtimes and letting us know what to put in our body to get ready for next game.  
   
 Q.   Obviously only a handful of teams come back from a deficit like this.   Can you guys relate this to any other scenario in the past for you guys or relate this to any other event?   
PASCAL DUPUIS:   Yeah, I was with the Wild when we came back twice from a 1‑3 deficit.   That's the closest thing that I can remind for myself, once against Matt in Vancouver.   As far as numbers and odds and everything like that, every year is different.   If you ask them, they were up 3‑0 a couple years ago, and they lost.   So it's numbers, different players, everything is different about this one.  
MATT COOKE:   Personally for me, I think being in all different types of situations in the Playoffs, and I've said this in the last two series, it always becomes about the next game and the next game is the most important, and you quickly have to move forward.   There's a lot of belief in our dressing room and the group that we have and what we've accomplished, and right now it's about Game 4 and that's it.   
   
 Q.   For both of you, you've been here a couple years.   Can you talk about focusing just on the next game, but the way this team is made up of contracts it looks like it's going to be the last group to be together as it is a lot of long‑term guys.   As you move forward do you think big picture how you want to get another Cup while this group is still together?   
MATT COOKE:   We definitely want to win.   We definitely want the Cup.   I don't think you can look at it long‑term when you're down 3‑0.   I think you have to look at it a game at a time, and right now it's (inaudible) to Pittsburgh.   
MATT COOKE:   Like Pascal said, it's about winning.   It's always about winning.   We were a Pittsburgh Penguin yesterday, we are today, and we will be tomorrow.   Game 4 is the most important.   We need to go out and win, and that's the sole focus.   You can't look any further than that, because that's the task at hand.   
   
 Q.   What did you notice them doing defensively against you that's been a challenge in getting only two goals so far in this series, or is it just that their goaltender has been fantastic?   
PASCAL DUPUIS:   Yeah, goaltending has been good for them.   They play a tight defense kind of game, and it's us to take care of that, I don't know, bringing more pucks to the net.   Eventually they'll go in.   We know that with the firepower that we have on our team.   Eventually they will go in, and hopefully they'll be tomorrow as we need them.   
MATT COOKE:   They have a structured system that they stick to, and it's nothing that we didn't expect.   I think that we've hit a lot of posts, and that puts the game within inches.   We have to realize and recognize that the best way to approach it is to get to the offensive zone and spend time there, and I think that we did a good job of that last night and we just didn't finish, and moving forward we need to‑‑ that's where we need to focus.   
   
 Q.   Last year against Philadelphia (inaudible) what from your coach and your assistants helped get you guys sort of back to maybe a more foundational way of make last night between Game 2 and 3?   
MATT COOKE:   It's just a reset.   I think that we recognized that in Game 2 we were‑‑ you didn't see the Pittsburgh Penguins on the ice.   There's minor adjustments, there's always adjustments from game to game in the Playoffs.   We made some adjustments, but I think the biggest focus not only from the coaching staff but from the whole organization standpoint is that we need to be the team who we believe we are and go back to what's made us successful in the past.   I think that obviously the result wasn't there, but the effort and determination and style of play was more like who we are.   
   
 Q.   Pascal, I know you said that you're confident eventually they're going to go in if you keep taking good shots, but does anything creep into your head, Rask has been so good that when you go back and take a shot, does that affect the thinking of where you aim or anything along those lines?   
PASCAL DUPUIS:   Not really for me personally.   Most of the time you just try to hit the net or see an opening on any given play it's a different situation you come in from the right side, left side, wherever you see the opening that's where you shoot at.   But as far as second‑guessing yourself when you shoot on a goalie that's been playing well against you guys, no, I don't think so.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT