COMMERCIAL BANK QATAR MASTERS
January 29, 2017
Jeunghun Wang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
BRIONY CARLYON: Thank you, everyone.  Warm congratulations Jeunghun Wang, the Champion of the 20th Anniversary of the Commercial Bank Qatar Masters.   
Wang, this is your third victory on The European Tour and it's your debut at this event, and it's also the first time that an Asian player has won this specific event.   
Can you tell us about your week and how you approached the event after quite a few events to start the year that you've played well?  Can you talk us through the week?   
JEUNGHUN WANG: Actually I really didn't expect that I would win this week.  I just keep trying to make birdies, trying to save par and finally won this week.  I've got a lot of confidence from this week, and I learned from the other players about the course.  And so I feel really good right now and just want to win another one.   
BRIONY CARLYON: Can you talk about the putt that was sunk on 18 where you were sent into the playoff with two other players?  What was going through your mind at that stage when you knew that you were going back to 18 with the chance to win the tournament?   
JEUNGHUN WANG: Actually I just tried to -- at the last hole, I just want to go playoff.  Make a chance to win.  Chipping at the last hole, so I got a chance.  I think is the last hole.   
BRIONY CARLYON: And at the moment, three European titles at such a young age, were you expecting that at all?  Did you have the confidence first for the victories?   
JEUNGHUN WANG: Yeah, I got a lot of confidence and just preparing, just want to prepare for the other events.  I think maybe I can win another one.   
 Q.  Today in the 18 holes, it was very dramatic at one stage, four people tied at 16-under.  Which one shot today were you most disappointed with, maybe a putt that didn't go in?  Which one shot today would you have changed?  
JEUNGHUN WANG: I think my second shot in the playoff.  I pulled it.  I thought it was going to be in the water but it flew over the green.  So I have a chance to make birdie and I made birdie, so I win.   
 Q.  You're looking quite likely for the Masters in Augusta.  What would it mean to you to play in the Masters potentially?  
JEUNGHUN WANG: I'm not sure.  That's my dream, dream tournament.  When I was young, I really want to play Masters.  I always imagine that I will play there.  Maybe now, maybe now I have a chance to play the Masters.  So I'm so happy about it, and I hope I'm going to get in Masters.   
 Q.  You're playing Dubai now and having also finished 11th in Abu Dhabi; it's an opportunity, as well, for you to rub shoulders with Tiger Woods.  Was he an idol of yours growing up?  And is there an excitement with more attention on you to maybe either be paired with him or have the opportunity to speak to him in Dubai?  
JEUNGHUN WANG: Oh, yes, I really want to play with Tiger (smiling).  He is my idol when I was young.  I'm going to be so happy when I see him next week.   
 Q.  Can I just ask if that's the most nervous you've ever been on a golf course, the back nine, today?  
JEUNGHUN WANG: Yes, I was really nervous.  It's really long day for me.  I missed a lot of greens at the back nine.  But my chipping was really good, so I saved every par.  So I think that's the key that I won this week.   
 Q.  You have got some fans here today.  Do you have a special message for them?  
JEUNGHUN WANG: Actually I got a lot of power from them.  They really give me a lot of power to win this week.  I think they helped me a lot this week (smiling).   
BRIONY CARLYON: Thank you, all, for the tournament.  The 20th Anniversary of the Commercial Bank Qatar Masters has come to a close, and what a great winner in Wang for his third European Tour event.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT