COMMERCIAL BANK QATAR MASTERS
January 28, 2017
Jeunghun Wang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Thoughts on 7-under today?  Round of the day.  
JEUNGHUN WANG: My iron play is really good today and my putting was really good.  So I shoot 7-under, and I'm so happy that I don't make any bogey today, so I'm really happy about it.   
 Q.  Always nice to go into that back nine with three birdies?  
JEUNGHUN WANG: Actually, I love back nine.  I like back nine.  The front nine, if I shoot under par, I'll be really happy tomorrow.   
 Q.  And great to finish with a birdie, as well.  Confidence must be high going into tomorrow.  
JEUNGHUN WANG: Yeah, but I don't want to think about win.  Just want to focus on my own game.  My irons and putting really good this week.  So I think I have a good chance to win.   
 Q.  Your caddie's hat, was that his idea?  
JEUNGHUN WANG: Actually my sponsor give me to use it, but I don't use it.  My caddie uses it.  It's really cool.   
 Q.  You had a little bit of support there today.  Did you hear many comments in Korean?  
JEUNGHUN WANG: Yeah, I got a lot of confidence from them.   
 Q.  Did they speak to you in Korean or say anything?  
JEUNGHUN WANG: No.  They bring the Korean flag.   
 Q.  Why did you do so well today?  
JEUNGHUN WANG: My irons is really good right now.  So I think I don't miss -- I miss only a few greens.  That's the key, think played 7-under.  My putting was really good, too.  I think everything good right now.   
 Q.  Still, your first time at this course.  You don't seem surprised but to play so well in your first tournament here.  
JEUNGHUN WANG: I think I like this course.  I like the wind.  I like the green conditions.  It's pretty nice for me.  Nice to play this course.   
 Q.  A lot of people have said that you were a very good player in the wind.  Do you feel that?  Do you like it when it's windy?  
JEUNGHUN WANG: I didn't know that, but when I play well, always the wind.  So confident in that.   
 Q.  Obviously you had the two wins last year which gave you a lot of confidence, but how much confidence did you take from Nedbank, from your performance there?  
JEUNGHUN WANG: Actually I think the two wins, I think Nedbank is bigger than the two wins.  Nedbank is really big tournament, and there's a lot of great players.  I learned from Nedbank.  I learned a lot.   
 Q.  Any similarities here to when you won in Morocco and Mauritius?  Obviously winning in Mauritius, but any other similarities to those courses?  
JEUNGHUN WANG: I think the wind is similar.  But the course design is quite different.  I love to play this course.  So I'm excited to play it tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT