UBS HONG KONG OPEN
December 7, 2016
Jeunghun Wang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Just talk about your year, when you look back at 2016, how has it really been for you?  
JEUNGHUN WANG: It's a really a great year for me.  It's really lucky, every tournament.  I have a great opportunity and experience this year.  I'm so happy about that and I'm so happy that I played with a lot of great players.   
 Q.  And of course the highlight of the year was those back-to-back victories.  
JEUNGHUN WANG: Yes, and Rookie of the Year maybe.   
 Q.  Talk a little bit about winning in Morocco and winning in Mauritius and what did it do for your golf and for your career?  
JEUNGHUN WANG: I don't know, I just tried to get a European Tour card to go to Morocco and I luckily win that tournament.  I got a lot of confidence from there, so I think the reason I can win Mauritius is all confidence.  I have a lot of confidence from Morocco.  No pressure, too, in Mauritius.  I think that was the key to win back-to-back.   
 Q.  When you think back now, this year, from the last two, three years of The Asian Tour, what has been the big change in your game that has made you who you are today?  
JEUNGHUN WANG: I don't know, actually I think my skills are all the same.  I think just mental and a lot of experience, and too, a lot of tournaments.  So I've got a lot of like experience and confidence.  I think I learned from there.  I learned from tournaments.  I think I become like this.   
 Q.  When you say mental, did you do anything specific to become stronger mentally, as well?  
JEUNGHUN WANG: No, no.   
 Q.  How did you become stronger?  
JEUNGHUN WANG: Just learn from great players.   
 Q.  Give me an example.  
JEUNGHUN WANG: I played with like Westwood and Andy Sullivan, Chris Wood, they never -- like when they play bad, they are never angry.  I think I try to do like that.  So I think I learned from them.  So I hope I can play more world starts.   
 Q.  UBS Hong Kong Open, last tournament for the year, what are you trying to do this week?  
JEUNGHUN WANG: I just want to do -- I just want to do good finish of 2016.  I don't have any like pressure this tournament.  So I think it's going to be a great tournament and a great tournament for me.   
 Q.  The golf course here, you've played a few times.  Does it suit you?  Do you like playing on this golf course?  
JEUNGHUN WANG: Yeah, I love to play this course, yes.  I play like two or three times already.  So it's really -- I know the course, so maybe I can score more.  I can make more birdies.   
 Q.  Last tournament of the year, how are you going to spend your time in the break, or what are you going to do?  How are you going to treat yourself for a great year?  
JEUNGHUN WANG: Maybe, yes.   
 Q.  What will you do?  
JEUNGHUN WANG: I don't have any plan, but I just want to take a rest for like one month.  I just want to enjoy the break time.   
 Q.  When you look back at the year, you got captain's pick for the EurAsia Cup.  How did the experience of playing for Team Asia there, did it help you in any way, as well, to make you stronger?  
JEUNGHUN WANG: Yes, I think I learned from -- I think my luck start from there, from captain's pick.  I learn from a lot -- I played Ian Poulter and Ross Fisher, great players.  I think I learned from them.  I learned a lot from them, like chipping skills, putting skills, too.  So that was a really great experience for me.   
 Q.  Next year, when do you start again, and do you raise the bar a bit higher in terms of your goals, what you're going to try to achieve?  
JEUNGHUN WANG: Of course I want to become better.  I keep trying to be better.  I don't have any pressure, so I hope it's going to be a great year.   
 Q.  What areas do you think you need to improve to come back?  
JEUNGHUN WANG: I think I have to hit it more consistent, and I have to go to the gym to become a long hitter.  After I'm sick, I lose a lot of distance.  So I keep going to the gym and keep gaining weight to hit long.  If I hit long and a little bit consistent, it's going to be really great.   
 Q.  The Asian Tour is where you started your career.  When you look back at the last three years when you started playing The Asian Tour, tell me some of the things that you think have helped you to make you become the Wang Jeunghun of today?  What are the things that have helped you?  
JEUNGHUN WANG: Not sure but I see a lot of professional golfers here, so I keep -- pressure, in Dubai, like two years ago in Dubai, I was leading Dubai by one.  That second was I think really helped me to make me like this.  At that time, it because sad, with you for now it's a really great experience.  Everything helps me I think, especially the tournaments and players.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT