HONG KONG OPEN
December 6, 2013
Espen Kofstad
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.     Talk about the first couple days around here.   
ESPEN KOFSTAD:   Two very different days.   Yesterday was sort of a day where I really played well, just made a couple mistakes that cost a lot.   
And today I was a little left, a little right off the tee, and sort of missed a few greens here and there.   But saved myself well and finished off strong so very happy.  
   
 Q.   And essentially with the scoring, it looks solid; it's in a nice position.   
ESPEN KOFSTAD:   Yeah, finally I'm putting better that.   Solves a lot of things when I can make those saves and just puts the pressure off the long game and stuff like that.   
So, yeah, it feels really solid and it feels like I couldn't really be that much worse, so that's really nice.  
   
 Q.   I know it's obvious you have to put well every week, but these greens seem, not tricky to read but they are fast; it's getting the balance right.   
ESPEN KOFSTAD:   Yeah, it's all about pace, and I'm a pretty good iron player, so I tend to give myself a lot of good chances on the right side of the hole.   I played World Cup two weeks ago and the greens were rumoured to be 13.8.   These don't feel that fast to be fair, which is quite nice.  
   
 Q.   I know the World Cup didn't quite pan out for you, but did you enjoy the whole experience of being down there, playing that tournament?  
ESPEN KOFSTAD:   Yeah, I just got really tired after tour school and going straight to Australia and just didn't really play that well, but I mean, the week was awesome and it's a very different golf course from what we're used to with it being so firm and fast.   
Just being in that field, stuff like that, it's just really nice.   I'm going to take it with me for the future.  
   
 Q.   You mentioned Q School.   That didn't quite work out; so what's the approach to the back end of this year, this tournament, and the future to come?   
ESPEN KOFSTAD:   Well, I mean, tour school was just one stroke too many, in 108 holes, it's hard lines in this game.   I would have been high-flying into these events if I was one stroke better.   
Now this feels like a bonus and I'm going to take my chances when I get them on the main tour and see what I can do. But I'm going to focus on The Challenge Tour next year, unless I win one of these next two.  
   
 Q.   Sounds like a nice relaxed approach, not putting any extra pressure on yourself to do well this week.   
ESPEN KOFSTAD:   No, I put enough pressure on myself earlier this year with the category I had to keep my heart.   Just had enough of the expectations of myself.   Just going to enjoy it and see where it takes me.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT