ISPS HANDA WALES OPEN
August 30, 2013
Espen Kofstad
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  ESPEN KOFSTAD:   It was just tough going with the wind, it was playing absolutely brutal, 16, and that front nine, as well.   I didn't play particularly well today.   I didn't really hole the putts I needed to sort of get the momentum going but I put myself in a good spot and that's not too bad.  
   
 Q.   Still proud of yourself for holding it together, because you are in a good spot.   
ESPEN KOFSTAD:   Could have been easy on a day like today to let it slip but I hit a great approach on the fifth and felt that I could start clawing my way back a little bit and couldn't quite do that.   Stopped the bleeding after three or four holes and got myself back on plane a little bit.  
   
 Q.   You said it was inspirational playing alongside The Ryder Cup captain; does that help as well, to sort of knuckle down even more?  
ESPEN KOFSTAD:   Yeah, he didn't play poorly today.   He played really, really well, and you sort of get dragged along with the guys you're playing with.   When you see good golf, usually play good golf.   I fought really hard today to keep it together.  
When you see birdies and good up‑and‑downs and sort of good shots through the wind and stuff like that, it's much better than playing with someone that's shooting a really, really high score and they are looking for balls, and it all flows a lot more smoother I think.  
   
 Q.   We often say that's the bad one out of the way and you can kick on from here?  
ESPEN KOFSTAD:   Yeah, I put myself in a great spot for the weekend and I'm just hoping to play the game I want to play and see where it takes me on Sunday.   
  
 Q.   How do you feel about 74?  
ESPEN KOFSTAD:   Not what I was looking for, certainly but it's playing really difficult out there.   Especially around 16, 17, 18.   I mean, they are not easy holes when you are playing straight into the breeze into the pins.   
Once I got through nine, I thought I could really kick on, birdie the first and second, great chances downwind, and didn't quite do that and played those 1‑over.   I fought really hard.  
   
 Q.   What's the most difficult aspect of the conditions?  
ESPEN KOFSTAD:   Just flighting the ball.   You're always off a little slope and a little downhill and it's just tough to flight the ball correctly to get it to sort of kick on the green.   When you're sort of left‑to‑right wind and you draw a lie, you really have to commit to everything and do your best.  
   
 Q.   You told us yesterday your first priority was get your license sorted out for next year but you're in a position to win this championship; how do you go about approaching things over the weekend?   
ESPEN KOFSTAD:   Well, I'm just going to try and win it and see where it takes me.   I'm just going to play my game, try to hit the greens.   Fairways and greens always wins, my coach keeps telling me.   That's the approach I'm going to have.   You have to be patient on the greens because you're going to have a lot of difficult putts and you have to hit the hit the center of the green on every hole.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT