ISPS HANDA WALES OPEN
August 29, 2013
Espen Kofstad
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Terrific round of golf, incredible finish, 5‑under par for the last four holes, talk us through the bunker shot at the last, that was the highlight really.   
ESPEN KOFSTAD:   Yeah, I talked to my caddie in the fairway and we said any bunker would be fine and I'm really just trying to hit it between ten and 15 foot past and just happened to bounce into the hole and just ended up perfect.  
   
 Q.   Out there with Paul McGinley this morning, which started off The Ryder Cup points race, was it inspiring to sit on the first tee with The Ryder Cup?   
ESPEN KOFSTAD:   It was just inspiring to be here I think.   It's Celtic Manor, Ryder Cup's been here, playing with Paul, especially; as well seeing Tommy win; we are both in ISM together.   I played Challenge Tour with him and it's just good stuff around me all the time.  
   
 Q.   You led the rankings on Challenge Tour last year and this is your first year on the main tour.   How has the transition been for you?  
ESPEN KOFSTAD:   It's been tough for me because I haven't played well.   The courses are that bit faster, the rough is higher, the greens are a bit quicker and if you don't play well, you're going to feel it.   But I'm starting to transition well now and the game feels good.  
   
 Q.   149th currently in the Race to Dubai, you need a strong finish to retain your license for next year, have you felt this form coming through?  
ESPEN KOFSTAD:   Yeah, I usually play well in the fall, so I haven't been too worried ‑‑ I've been a little worried about my game, but I've been semi‑injured all year, and it's been tough to practise.   But had a good week with my coach at home after the challenge event at Norway and got to Gleneagles, got a good feeling and just trying to kick on here really.   
   
 Q.   That's got to be your best round on The European Tour, hasn't it?   
ESPEN KOFSTAD:   Oh, easy.   The game just felt really good today.   I got off to a really good start and just kept hitting quality iron shots and it all really came together.   
   
 Q.   Very special finish.   Talk about the bunker shot at the last.   
ESPEN KOFSTAD:   I've hit it in the right trap, which it's not the best; it's okay.   And I'm just thinking, hit it somewhere between ten to 15 feet past and give myself a look at birdie would be the best chance I would get.  
And then I hit it really nice, on the line, because you're always trying to hole it, and then happened to go in, fantastic.  
   
 Q.   And you high‑hived The Ryder Cup Captain.   
ESPEN KOFSTAD:   Yeah, why not?   (Smiling).  
   
 Q.   Must be good to play here with Paul McGinley when The Ryder Cup points start.   
ESPEN KOFSTAD:   Yeah, it's just all inspiring stuff.   He's been a really good player before and it's nice to feed off his experience a little bit because he's a very calm, collected character and it was just a good group to be in this morning.  
   
 Q.   Certainly he's made the point that anybody could qualify for that European Team.   I don't know if it's been on your mind at all as a possibility?  
ESPEN KOFSTAD:   Well, it's far now.   I'm trying to keep my card out here.   But if I find the form I found last year, I can all of a sudden win one, maybe I'll have a chance and try and kick on from there but the first goal has got to be to secure my privileges out here for next year.  
   
 Q.   Essentially we have seen you play superbly well in the Spanish Open, not an awful lot since; and the last couple of events have been getting back on track, haven't they?  
ESPEN KOFSTAD:   Yeah, it's been tough going.   I've been injured and it's been tough to practise.   Had a great week last week with my coach and found a great feel on the weekend.   The iron shots and the driver are really coming along.   
Golf is really easy when you're in the fairway.   I've been in the rough a lot this year.   Now I'm in the fairways and seem to be in the middle of the greens, and giving myself good chances all the time.   
It was pretty easy today.   Most of the shots really came off and happened to make some long putts.   It was beautiful.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT