ROLAND GARROS
May 28, 2017
Timea Bacsinszky
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
T. BACSINSZKY/S. Sorribes Tormo   
6-1, 6-2   
An interview with:   
TIMEA BACSINSZKY   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.   
TIMEA BACSINSZKY: Not all together.   
 Q.  Sounded like an easy day.  Was that the case on the court?  
TIMEA BACSINSZKY: It looked easy, but it was very intense.  I'm not quite sure how long it lasted.  Well, about an hour 20, an hour 30.  But I thought I was trying to be as intense as possible as quickly as possible.   
I think she was also quite tense at the start.  I was on the right track.  And there really weren't many openings for her to put me in a difficult position.  She couldn't outpace me.  If I needed to defend, I knew I could.  When she was serving or not, there was, in fact, nothing that I found particularly worrying.  So I actually used the opportunity.   
I wouldn't say it was a fantastic game, but intensity and concentration were at a high level for me.  And I think I placed my energy where and when it was needed and I've also kept energy for the next round.   
 Q.  Did you use this first game to perhaps fine-tune what you're going to be doing later?  
TIMEA BACSINSZKY: I think it's when you win that you build your confidence.  I was saying that in yesterday's press conference; when you win a certain number of games, it's better.  Passing the first round is of course great.  But then of course you need to build that confidence and perhaps in the second round I will need to put new things into place when I see that things aren't working the best.   
I think I've managed to adjust the length of my shots.  When it was short balls, she was playing better.  So 6-1, 6-2, sounds simple, but I would say that most of the time in today's match, the length of my shots was good.  There weren't any neutral balls.  I just needed, if I shortened a little, she would use that.  So I think at least towards the end of the second set I really managed to adjust the length.  I perhaps could have continued playing in the same way.  I may have lost a couple of games, but I did fine-tune, and in order to do that you need to be very aware.   
And I'm very aware of what is happening during a match and I think that today I had the right focus and energy for the fine-tuning precisely, and I hope that it will go on in the following matches.   
 Q.  You say that you never look at the draw, but surely you must have looked.  
TIMEA BACSINSZKY: I was just trying to see who I would potentially be playing in the third round.  Of course, I'm playing in the first day.  I don't know whether it's the top or the bottom who are playing.  I'm just waiting for the name of whoever it's going to be.  But then, obviously, I know that it will be either going to be Goerges or Brengle.  I hope they're still playing.  Oh, it's 10-10.  Yes.  I would like her.  I'm rooting for her.  I really hope she can beat that record.  Great if they're still playing.   
So I don't need to answer your question.  Great.  I don't need to answer that fateful question, what do you think of your next opponent?   
 Q.  Did you look at where Kiki Bertens was?  
TIMEA BACSINSZKY: No, I'm just it's already complicated enough to focus on your own opponents.  When you're playing in Grand Slam tournaments, most players are very well prepared.   
But there's a lot of demand from all directions.  In Rabat there weren't that many people.  So there are a lot of demands from all sides.  So I just try to stay on track and all of the other players take care of themselves.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT