WIMBLEDON
June 30, 2016
Timea Bacsinszky
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 T. BACSINSZKY/L. Kumkhum
  6‑4, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
   
 Q. You finished your first‑round match on Thursday, first week of a Grand Slam. A lot of other players in the same situation have used the word "weird" to describe that. How did you stay focused after waiting all this time, and all this starting so late?  
TIMEA BACSINSZKY: Well, you know, first of all, I think I didn't have actually the choice. I can get angry about it and lose energy by getting angry, or I can just accept that's like that.  
So for sure the Grand Slam rhythm isn't the same as other tournaments, but I think every player competing here is what I think professional enough to be able to deal with it. So for me I just try to not to lose so much energy while waiting.   
It wasn't that easy, because you have the tension of the match. I had the tension of the match on Tuesday, on Wednesday, and today. So it's kind of weird, for sure, as the other ones says, they said.  
But in the end, it can happen everywhere, and I think it has been happening all over Europe for the last ‑‑what's happening? This wasn't happening in Europe before. (Laughter.)  
Is it all right? Yeah. Okay.  
It has been happening all over Europe for the last couple of almost month, I would say. It's a special year for tennis. Well, I believe when you have such a year, it's not coming back every year hopefully.  
So I plan to play at least seven more years, so I hope that in the seven more years, the rain won't come that often than in 2016.   
   
 Q. You have been very open about your story and your kind of second career now. Do you consider yourself almost a role model for other girls that have maybe been through what you've been through, challenges, training in tennis and working with family and coaches?  
TIMEA BACSINSZKY: Well, I never try to speak up to be a role model, but if my story can help other people, because it's tough. I know how tough it is to go against parents because you have no other options, anyway, until you're 18.   
It's tough to raise your voice. You have no money, you have no work to go, you have ‑‑there are many things. No self‑confidence, probably.  
So if the story can just help out even once someone, I will be just super honored. But I'm not doing it ‑‑I'm not doing it for it. I'm just open because I explain people how I lived through that, and probably gonna write way more in details after the end of my career about that. But, well, it's gonna be probably more interesting than it is right now.  
But, yeah. Well, if someone says, Okay, I heard the Bacsinszky story, and it helped me for this or that, in tennis or not in tennis, it's a huge honor for me to be taken as a role model, even if it's only once or twice.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT