BNP PARIBAS FED CUP: USA VS SWITZERLAND
April 20, 2019
Captain Heinz Guenthardt
Timea Bacsinszky
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. STEPHENS/T. Bacsinszky   
6-4, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Timea, one or two points made a difference today.  Is that how it felt on your end?  
TIMEA BACSINSZKY: Yeah, definitely.  It was a tough one because, yeah, I think we both had our good moments, our not-so-good moments.  Still, I think the level was pretty high.  We had amazing rallies.  It was a very physical game, I would say.   
Well, of course, yeah, I'm disappointed because I know that I'm capable of more.  Even though it was a very good match, I can do an even better match.  It didn't happen today.   
But I know I had someone, a Grand Slam champion.  I mean, you have this thing in the U.S., I really feel the players, when they play on home soil, I mean, it's really tough to play against them.   
She got pumped up, as well, from the crowd.  I felt it when I was leading in the first set.  As well, when I was leading in the second set.  She came back actually playing smart.  Maybe I was trying to do a little bit too much at that time.   
But I would say overall, despite the disappointment, it's good that I played that match.  Definitely it's going to bring me a lot for tomorrow, then for the next weeks.   
 Q.  Heinz, the big picture.  I assume you're pretty happy overall to be 1-1 after the first day?  
CAPTAIN GUENTHARDT: Yeah, obviously when you lead 1-0, you would prefer to win the second one, as well.  But, yes, I think I'm very happy how both girls competed today, absolutely.   
 Q.  You said yesterday your versatility was going to be a big part of this.  How did that play out today?  
CAPTAIN GUENTHARDT: Well, especially in the first match, it was quite obvious they're two completely different players out there.  Especially the first 10 minutes, Madison literally just tried to hit her off the court, which is a really tough task.   
The match, not result-wise but how it was played, was pretty much how I expected it.  So there wasn't really a big surprise.   
 Q.  Can you look forward a little bit to tomorrow's matchups.  
CAPTAIN GUENTHARDT: Well, I expect some long rallies in the first one, that's for sure.  Both move very well.  Both are players that have some variety.  Viki is maybe the one that varies the backhand a lot more.  But then Sloane has a bit more power off the forehand.   
Obviously we'll see if we can neutralize that forehand and use the versatility that we have maybe over her to our advantage, similar to what happened today in the first match.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT