ROLAND GARROS
June 2, 2016
Timea Bacsinszky
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
K. BERTENS/T. Bacsinszky   
7-5, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  Where do you think this match changed?  You were up in the first set, and then I think she won seven straight games from there and took control.  
TIMEA BACSINSZKY: Well, I think from the beginning on I was kind of struggling with the conditions, because she's able to put speed in the ball.  I mean, she's very powerful and you can see it.   
And me, like I think I'm less powerful.  The conditions, they were like heavier than yesterday.  I was really struggling with my ball length, so I couldn't really find a good spot to bother her.  Well, she was probably having also a great momentum.   
So I think we played kind of equal all the first set.  I mean, I could have win also those games.  It could have gone either way.  And it was the same in the second set, too.   
So congrats to her, because she was able to maybe win -- not maybe -- but she was able to win the important points.   
But overall, I think even though I lost those straight games, I was trying my best to make it happen like for me, but I didn't succeed.   
And, well, it happens.   
 Q.  You talked the other day about adapting and being able to problem-solve and things like that.  Sounds like today, was it more of an issue of execution that you couldn't do what you thought would solve the match for you, or was it maybe something that you didn't see out there that wasn't working?  
TIMEA BACSINSZKY: Well, I couldn't bring my balls really up like with a lot of spin, so it was many times slowing down.  Well, like you need to bring those balls up.  You need to lose your legs quite well.   
With those conditions you need your legs even more.  So I know I'm well-prepared, but at a certain point maybe I couldn't give even more.  So it was getting short.  I wasn't really finding the rhythm that I wanted to.  Like even if I destructure the game, sometimes I still need to find a rhythm somehow first.   
Well, I'm adapting all year long to any conditions.  People think, Okay, you get to win many matches and it's like, Oh, just playing too good and you're just feeling it.   
Well, this year -- I mean, last year I was mentioning two matches that I was really -- I was like -- I had my eyes shut and everything was going in.   
But all year long, like this year, it didn't happen yet for me to have such a match.  So many times I was feeling kind of not that well in the match but I was able to turn it around.   
Luckily for me it doesn't happen quite often that I cannot turn it around, but this time I really couldn't.   
Even though I was feeling even in the second set could have come back.  Maybe 4-3, you never know.  She's maybe shaky.  If I make a 4-All, you don't know what can happen.   
And it's the same with the first set.  Let's say I was two points away from the set, but let's say I win it.  What's happening?  We will never know because it's over.  I will just try to maybe execute those shots better, because, yeah, it's true today I missed a lot and I couldn't really find the rhythm.   
Well, I tried my best, and that's enough for me.   
 Q.  Was it also difficult for you to cope with the medical timeout of KiKi, because after that you lost four games in a row.  Was rhythm broken?  
TIMEA BACSINSZKY: Well, I'm not believing human beings are doing things on purpose to bother the other one.  If they are, okay.  It's their stuff.   
 Q.  No, I didn't mean that.  Was it difficult for you to after that to...  
TIMEA BACSINSZKY: Well, I didn't really pay attention to that.  I was just paying attention to trying to play longer, play long rallies, maybe to make her move more.   
I was not really focused on what she was having, what kind of health issues she was having or injury issues.  Because, I mean, I have my both ankle taped and I wasn't playing the week before the French Open.  I almost didn't hit a ball.  No one knows that, and then I am ending up being in the quarterfinals.   
I never look at those things, to be honest.  It's just me.  I couldn't play just better than I played today.   
 Q.  But did it break your rhythm?  Because you lost the games afterwards?  Did it break your rhythm, that timeout, because the four games after that you lost very quickly?  
TIMEA BACSINSZKY: Well, I lost, what, three games before, too, no?  So it was -- I mean, it was already -- I was already in a bad mood.  I lost already a couple of games, so then it just -- I kept on losing some games.   
It didn't give my rhythm, but, well, I'm not thinking that's something that really broke my rhythm.   
 Q.  Reaching quarterfinals here, is this a satisfying result for you or are you disappointed?  
TIMEA BACSINSZKY: You know, I'm never setting myself goals so I'm never getting disappointed.  That's the good thing about that.  (Smiling.)   
But I'm really happy about this whole week.  To be able to -- being an elite player means that people are, like, awaiting results of you, and especially I made semifinals here last year.   
To come back and to be able to cope with that and to go so far, it's already something huge for me.  So I think I had a good --  (through translation) manage.  Pardon.  I managed quite well.  I even made jokes about it in French with drinking the pressure.  Because it means -- if you say in French -- when you -- when someone asks me like how do you feel the pressure, I mean, I don't feel it, I drink it, because pressure means a beer in French, too.   
To be honest, I wasn't -- I was okay with what was happening.  So I think I'm -- for sure I always want more.  I always want to be better.  Maybe it wasn't for me for this year to go further, but I'm feeling quite young -- I think so -- and I'm hungry to work more, work harder, and to be maybe able to do the same or maybe better one day.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French in room No. 2.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT