ROLAND GARROS
June 1, 2016
Timea Bacsinszky
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








T. BACSINSZKY/V. Williams
6-2, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. Just talk about your feeling of getting to quarterfinal.  Could you talk about the six games in a row in the first set?  How did you make that kind of turnaround?
TIMEA BACSINSZKY: Well, first, being in a quarterfinal in a slam is like every player's dream.  Like some have achieved it way more times than others, but for me it's my third.  I still sometimes cannot believe it, especially if you have a great win on such a good player.
I mean, she's definitely an inspiration, because if you see how long she is lasting as a tennis player it's something unbelievable.  Even if she's struggling with health issues she's there, she's super nice with everyone, she's kind, and she's a great tennis player for so many years.
So that's why to be able to win this match, my first win over Venus is -- well, it's just amazing.
About the match turnaround, well, I think I won more than six games in a row.  I think I won eight.  But, I mean, six, eight.  It's not a big difference, huh? .
But I think I struggled with my rhythm at the beginning.  It was -- I mean, the conditions, as you could see for the last couple of days, has been pretty tough.  We're not used to playing on such a heavy clay.
And while her ball was -- she was touching many -- I mean -- I'm not saying only lines, but she was playing really deep.  I couldn't really put my speed into the ball.
Well, after those two first games, well, I figured I might have to use my legs a little bit more.  So I tried to tell myself, Okay, I'll move more or try to just push on your legs, anyway.  It gonna turn around sometime.  Maybe not right away.  I didn't know I would win eight games in a row.
But anyway, I was just focusing on playing deep and tried to mix also the rhythms with some slices, short balls, quick balls, balls with no spin, nothing, no power that she had to move into the court or maybe coming to the net.
So I think variation was the key for me today.
Q. Kiki Bertens from The Netherlands is moving like a fast train here at Roland Garros.  Are you afraid?
TIMEA BACSINSZKY: Well, well done.  I didn't know I was playing her.  Oh, no, that's not true.  Somebody told me already.
She's a great player.  Well, she proves as well for many years that she's fierce opponent on clay.  I'm not surprised that she has made it so far already, because I think she did the quarterfinals like two years ago, right?
And now she's on a huge winning streak.  So, well, I played her only once at the US Open in 2014 and she had to retire because she was feeling sick on court.
Talking about trains, I don't know.  Switzerland is quite famous for trains, too, you know, (smiling).
But, well, more seriously, I'm just looking forward being in a quarterfinal in a Grand Slam.  You don't make it every day.  So maybe only four times a year, it's true.
But for me, it's only my third time in my whole career.  I'm just going to enjoy the win of today and, you know, sit down quietly with my coach later on and figure out what to do tomorrow.
But I will be definitely ready.
Q. You just said Venus is a big inspiration to many players, but I think you are also an inspiration as an athlete because of your career and that you have gone through a lot of ups and downs.  So what kind of a message do you think you're sending to your fellow players or maybe junior players or in general?
TIMEA BACSINSZKY: It's funny, because talking about junior players, I was on Suzanne Lenglen today and you get to see all the juniors because they're based over there.  Yesterday I was at Jean Bouin at the practice facilities for the French Open.
Yesterday they uncovered two courts for Murray and for myself.  Well, my hitting partner told me that some juniors were complaining because they were saying, Oh?  Who is Bacsinszky?  Why does she need a court?  So I don't know if I'm such a big inspiration then.
I don't know.  I remember when I was myself a junior, believe me.  I remember seeing Likhovtseva.  She was probably top 20, maybe even 20, and she was playing in the second week.  I was like, I saw her and like she was not my idol, but still, I was shaking in front of her.  I was like, Ahh, she's in the same locker room as I am.
But I think maybe now I don't know if juniors are feeling differently.  I have no idea.  But I got to talk the junior with Monica Seles in Hungarian and it was like probably one of the best days of my life.  I will remember that forever.  When she just answered me in Hungarian I was like, Okay, I can lose in first round.  I mean, in juniors.  It's all right.  I'm happy.  Well, now maybe juniors they have not a -- I don't know.  Other idols.  I don't know which ones.  It's okay if I'm not part of -- I mean, I don't know the role models they are taking.  It's okay.
But if I can inspire some generations it would be a great honor for me.  First of all I'm playing for myself, and I think to inspire other people you just have to be someone can translate (speaking in Swiss-German) agree with yourself.  Okay.  So you have to agree with yourself, or I don't know, find a good balance with yourself and show that while you're enjoying what -- not show.  You don't need to show.  But it's like sometimes it comes out and -- yeah, I -- well, I play for myself, and if someone gets inspired by me it's an honor.
Sorry, I didn't know how to finish the question, my answer.  Okay.
Q. Let's go back to what is obviously the most important topic of this press conference, which is trains.  There are all kinds of trains around:  trains that are freight trains, powerful, slow, trains that are bullet trains, fast, under the ground, go to high peaks.  What kind of train expresses you, your person, your essence?
TIMEA BACSINSZKY: Well, in Lausanne, you know, we don't have -- I mean, we have a Metro like underground, but it's not quite big -- not as big as, I don't know, New York.  Otherwise we have (speaking?  Swiss-German.) This is a tram.  Otherwise we have the CFF, I mean, the regular train, which are always on time.  Which I'm not all the time.
But today I showed up.  I was really on time.  It's an improvement.  It's a big challenge.  I already won something today.  I was on time.
Which one am I?  I think probably a part of all of the Swiss trains.  I mean, there is also the mountain trains.  In Lausanne, we don't really have mountains in Lausanne, but I think I'm just -- well, I can be any of those.  I'm like a chameleon.  I probably can fit to every type of court.
Okay, I don't turn green when I'm playing on grass, but I will try for the grass season.
But, well, to talk more about the game, I think I can adapt myself to every kind of players and every circumstances.  So I think it's one of my strengths to be able to -- probably with what I have been all through in my life, probably helped me a lot to be able to turn many things around sometimes.
Well, even if bad things are happening to you, only try to take the positive and just move forward.  Like a train.
Q. I don't know if you can remember as far back as when the sun was shining here on one of your previous matches.  It looked like you scooped up maybe an insect or something off the baseline and then took it to safety.  Is that what it was?  Is that important to you?
TIMEA BACSINSZKY: It was a ladybug.  It's a lucky charm.  I cannot step on it.
Also on the social media, one of my first practices on clay I took a picture and I posted it on Instagram.  My first practice on clay -- or second one, outdoor clay, there was a ladybug.  Landed just on a tennis ball just in front of me.
Well, here I saw quite a few of them.  On my match against Bouchard I think I saved one.  The ball kid just stepped on it.  I was like, Oh, poor ladybug.  He's like someone is saving my life.  Done.
Well, I mean, for sure I can also step on it or -- I mean, I'm not superstitious.  Just saying like why should I step on it?  I'm not saying we should like be super careful about every insects and animals, but just like don't need to murder a poor insect because it's bothering you.
You can just push it a little bit.  Like, Go on.  Go away.  That was my feeling about this poor ladybug.
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.
Q. You like doing a number of tricks.  This is giving you an upper hand on clay.  For instance, all the dropshots, et cetera.
TIMEA BACSINSZKY: You're talking about today?
Q. Yes, about today.
TIMEA BACSINSZKY: Well, yeah, I can do this.  I can adapt my style to the conditions.  This is what I constantly work on and try and develop in my life, my personal life, but also when I'm on the courts each time I practice.
Even though I might be in a tricky position, you know, sometimes there are days that are not good for you.  And even then I try and react and change and turn around the game.  It's like a negative spiral.
If it's the case, I will do my utmost to change the trend in my favor.  It's the same for my game.  The fact that I know how to play many different types of shots and spins, I can play well on clay.  Also perhaps on other surfaces.  Yes, on other -- why should I say maybe?  Yes, on other surfaces, as well.
What is amazing is that when you don't set any limits to what you do.  You know you can develop many, many aspects of your game.  In this respect, Roger is an incredible source of inspiration.  He is 34 and last year he invented a new shot.  I am not the new revolution.  I don't want to invent a new shot for tennis, but I'd like to add more shots to my palette of shots.
For instance, those who knew my game, let's say, before 2010, well, they have not seen me slice a point.  Whereas now, this is one of my good shots.  I'm not going to serve and volley in a year, but who knows?
Why couldn't I develop that type of style?  It could help me.  This is what I try and work on throughout the year, and it's bearing its fruits.
Q. Now, I'd like to ask about this technical point, about slices.  You said you didn't use that shot before; it's essential on clay, though.  Not many women players have this shot, this slice.  It seems that now you enjoy these slices.  What is it that you like when you slice the different balls and it works well in your favor?
TIMEA BACSINSZKY: Well, I think it took me a little while to adapt.  When Dimitri said, We're going to try and use more slices, I looked at him, eyes wide open.  I thought, Are you kidding me?  We had a long discussion.  We talked about this shot.
Then, you know, at the beginning I was a bit reluctant.  To tell you the whole truth, it was the first time I managed to play one in a match.  It was in Andrezieux-Boutheon in 2014 against Sramkova in the first game.
It was a small backhand slice shot like Roger's, and it surprised my opponent so much that I thought, Maybe that's a good thing to play.
And then I'm not saying I have total control of this shot or technique today, but then to gain more confidence and a new shot, you know what you have to do  is to try it.  Not just during practice, but also during matches.  Because otherwise it's only an intention.
I'm not saying we are playing the matches only to win, but then, you know, you have to say, Okay, there's pressure today because it's a match, but I will try and play this shot.
And last year at the end of the year in Beijing, I won key points.  I was in a tricky position at that moment.  Oh, well, a tricky position.  A tricky situation, rather, I should say.
And thanks to these shots, that is, thanks to the slices, I won the point.  I gained more confidence.  But there are so many things that I can still work on in my game.  I love doing that.  When Dimitri says, Let's try this, let's try that.  You know what?  I'm immediately enthusiastic about it.  I like to try those.  Except if I miss them all the time.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT