CHINA OPEN
October 10, 2015
Timea Bacsinszky
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.  
   
 Q. Could you talk about some of the milestones you achieved with your first premiere mandatory final and a top 10 entry?  
TIMEA BACSINSZKY: Well, it's just amazing. I never thought to be able to reach it. I wasn't even thinking of that actually. I was just all the time thinking about improving tennis‑wise and, yeah, having fun, trying to give my best at practice and while I'm playing in every circumstances.   
I mean, it doesn't matter where I am, in which country, I just try to push myself. Well, I went that far, so far.   
Yeah, I'm just super proud. I think I'm not realizing it right now, to be honest, because I'm still playing the tournament. There's a huge match also tomorrow to play.   
But, yeah, I'm just very happy about that. I'm still going to be the same and try to work as hard as I can and, yeah, be better for next time.   
   
 Q. Your season this year, does anything that's happened surprise you?  
TIMEA BACSINSZKY: Yes.   
   
 Q. Like what?  
TIMEA BACSINSZKY: What? First of all, 15 wins in a row. If you were telling me that two years ago, I would be like, Yeah, yeah, for sure. Roger can do it, but I cannot.   
It only shows that, like, we never know which limits we have. We just don't have to put ourselves limits and we can achieve big things. It's the same with my semifinal run at the French Open, then straight quarterfinals in Wimbledon. Never would thought to be able to reach that. I did.   
At the end of the day, did it change my life? Well, it's super cool, at the end great emotions, but you're not a better person if you achieved that or not.   
Just trying, yeah, to still enjoy everything what I'm doing. I think it's the most important thing. As I said yesterday in the press conference, you never know how long you can live, so just enjoy it as much as you can. Right now I'm enjoying it quite well, so I'm really happy about that.   
   
 Q. This summer you were a little bit tired for the US Open. Was it easy to find a second breath to start again?  
TIMEA BACSINSZKY: Yeah, well, maybe I wasn't ready to fly so early in the U.S., even if I took some weeks home to practice. Maybe I needed one more week. But it's something that I've maybe learned from this summer.   
Like, let's say compared to my beginning of the season, for sure, four first rounds in a row was not super, but it has also some positive things. It makes you maybe communicate more with your team. It makes you try to find solutions. It helped me for a lot of things.   
I always planned to play Seoul, got a wild card there, then Wuhan, then I withdraw from both because I wasn't feeling ready. My head was still like going everywhere. I wasn't like completely Zen.   
Well, yeah, you take some decisions. You never know if it's going to work or not. But at least you assume them. Right now I sticked with this decision. I said, Okay, well, I'm preparing for Beijing now. I played less tournaments that I planned at the beginning of the year, but it turned out that I'm standing here talking to you. Okay, I could have lost also first round or yesterday, as well, according to the fact that I was pretty behind in the score. It shows it's never too late to come back.   
But, yeah, well, this summer learned me a lot of things. It helped me definitely for this period, and it's going to help me, as well, for the future months, probably future years as well.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT