WIMBLEDON
July 6, 2015
Timea Bacsinszky
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







T. BACSINSZKY/M. Niculescu
  1‑6, 7‑5, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   We are getting used to seeing you in quarterfinals of Grand Slams now.   Are you used to this yet?
TIMEA BACSINSZKY:   No (smiling).   Well, it's just a pleasure to still be here and still be lucky enough to play another match. 
Well, I think I worked hard to deserve this spot, but, well, I'm not expecting it for myself on every tournament.   I just every time I play I try to give my best, and, well, so far it's working quite well.

Q.   Same sort of thing at the French.   You had a quarterfinal against Van Uytvanck, who was also lower ranked than here.   There are no players in the top 10 left in the bottom half of the draw.   Looks like an open draw from the outside.   How does that feel as a player knowing that at least on paper there is a big opportunity?
TIMEA BACSINSZKY:   It feels the same as for the other players. 
I mean, if we are where we are, it means we worked hard to be able to play the quarterfinals.   So top 10 or not, there are great players out there.
Today, I mean, she's ranked 45 or something like that.   She has been working 100K, and playing final in Nottingham.   Then, yeah, playing some great tennis lately. 
So, well, today she was definitely not playing her ranking, because she used everything what she could to break my game.   And, well, that's why I'm saying on the paper she's No. 45, but I think today she was playing such a high level.
It could be the same for every other player who would play against her.   Yeah, she's definitely going to be I think higher. 
But, well, otherwise, I mean, I don't feel extra pressure.   For me it's my first time here, first of all, winning a second‑round match here.   And third round and a fourth round, it's just amazing.
So I'm just enjoying what I'm doing.   Well, I'm looking forward to play the next match.

Q.   You had a very emotional reaction in the end.   Do you have the feeling you're dreaming these last days, weeks, months?
TIMEA BACSINSZKY:   Well, it was quite emotional for me because I know everyone was also saying, well, that my game doesn't suit grass that much.   And maybe I also believed at some points some years ago. 
Just to see where I was last year playing here on the second round against Maria and being now able to win more matches, it was, first of all, amazing.   Then especially against a player I had really bad statistic, and she's bothering every other player.   No one likes actually to play against her, because it's a surprise every point.
So to be able to turn around this match and to lift my focus level up and also my game level up, it meant so much to me just to be able, you know, to win the last point.   It's nice to win a match.

Q.   Where did you get that confidence?
TIMEA BACSINSZKY:   Of today? 

Q.   Yes. 
TIMEA BACSINSZKY:   Well, I think I have been playing a lot of matches quite well lately.   So for a year now already, I have been playing a lot of matches and winning a lot, as well.
So all these experiences of the past made me, yeah, unstress and be quiet at important moments.
So, yeah, I had faith in myself.   And I was believing really that I could, anyway, turn maybe this match.   But I was not expecting, for example, to win.   I was just, okay, I tried to do something.   I tried to change up something.
I didn't want to leave the court without giving her a tough job to do.   So I'm glad that, well, I made her work and I end up lifting my both arms to sky.

Q.   Wimbledon is sort of a special place.   One point, working in hotels, fed up with tennis.   Did this sort of dream of coming back here, was that part of the reason why you came back to tennis?
TIMEA BACSINSZKY:   I'm not dreaming about like big tournaments or something.   Obviously those are biggest tournaments ever in this job.   But for me, it's the joy of being able to compete.   I just love the game.   No matter where I am, it's the first round, Marrakech where the courts are terrible, or if it's somewhere else or in Wimbledon or in the U.S., in Cincinnati, or wherever I am, it's really the love of the game.
To be able to find a solution against a person, against your opponent, about what she's giving, she's proposing on court, and then, okay, let's work.   Let's find a solution to win the maximum of points, and hopefully the last one.
So it's really the love of the game that made me come back.

Q.   At that point when you were working I think in restaurants and cafes, what was the thing that made you most fed up with that to then come back to tennis?
TIMEA BACSINSZKY:   Oh, why?   Because actually I was passionate.   When I was younger, like I told at school, I want to be a waitress when I was 12.   I wrote it down on a paper.   Well, what do you want to do when you're going to be older?   I never wanted to be a tennis player.   It happened that I was just playing too good at a certain point.   I had no choice.   My dad wasn't okay with me to being a waitress, obviously.
And then, well, I just liked this contact with people.   Someone's coming for a coffee, and, well, you just try to give five nice minutes to this person.   Because going to a restaurant or sleeping in a nice hotel for most of the people, it can be a highlight of their week.   Maybe some people, they don't have enough money to eat in restaurants like we, tennis players are doing it every year. 
But you go out in a restaurant.   This is a highlight of a week.   It's something nice, it's something.   So just to make this moment special to the people.   I always love to help people out, to chat with people, to give them something.   Also cooking.   I love cooking, because it's some kind of giving love.
I know why I am like this, because when you suffered so much at a certain point, you're nice with everyone somehow.   And you're getting altruist.   I don't know how you say. 
Because you're happy.   You're happy seeing people happy because maybe inside of you you're not that happy and maybe some things are not that nice.
So my life before wasn't that nice.   But, well, for me it was all the time kind to people, all the time giving gifts to many people, and I realize why.   Because it was one thing that kept me going, going, going, going.   I learned that by working with a psychologist. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT