ROLAND GARROS
June 4, 2015
Timea Bacsinszky
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. WILLIAMS/T. Bacsinszky
  4‑6, 6‑3, 6‑0

THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English. 

Q.   Was it difficult to play against a player who seems to be not really well but then hitting serves of 200 kilometers when she needs to?
TIMEA BACSINSZKY:   I mean, every tennis match is tough.   I'm not really looking at how my opponent is doing on the other side of the court.   I'm more focusing on my plans. 
And, well, she's the only one who knows how she was feeling.   I have no idea how fit she was or not.   I knew on court it would be a difficult match.   I never forgot that. 
So I always tried to push myself as far as I could like to try to win the match, and, well, she was better today.   She pulled out a great match, because I think I was playing quite well.
Well, she deserved to win today.   It happens.   It's only a tennis match.

Q.   Up a set and a break.   Do you feel that you let that go a little bit in those next couple of games, or was this an instance of Serena completely raising her level?   Was any of this on your racquet, do you think?
TIMEA BACSINSZKY:   Well, we say in French, If we could put Paris in a bottle.   (Smiling.)   Like I could say, If, if, if.   If my forehand was in.   If I would maybe choose another tactic at this moment, maybe.   But I don't know. 
Just happened that she leveled up her game.   I was fighting to keep my level, as well.   If you feel that the other one is leveling up their game, I mean, you have also to, I mean, to stand there and to show that you're going to be ready for any storm, tsunami, or whatever is going to happen.
And, well, I was aware of that, and that's why ‑‑I mean, for sure I'm sad because we are all great competitors and we don't like to lose, but it was already way better than the last time I played her. 
Well, I'm just going to go back to work and try to play better the next time.   Yeah, that's it. 

Q.   How do you think you handled the occasion of the first Grand Slam semifinal on Chatrier against Serena, No. 1, all of that?   What was that like for you?   How do you feel you handled it?
TIMEA BACSINSZKY:   I'm really proud about how I handled it.   When I played her in Indian Wells in front of a big crowd, maybe I got more impressed than here, even if there were maybe more people today.   I don't know the numbers.   And at this stage of the tournament. 
So what intimidated me in Indian Wells ‑‑sorry.   What I did wrong in Indian Wells, I got the emotions, whew, through my face at a certain point of the game.   I think I handled it quite well today. 
Well, I handled it well, but I want to handle it even better next time.   So that's what is pretty amazing, is that when you're a human being that you can all the time push your limits more and more and more if you believe that you have none.
And I believe that I maybe have some, but I don't know where they are.   So I will definitely take many positive things of this match and of my journey here in Paris and to, yeah, level up my game for my next matches.

Q.   Were you very aware that Serena Williams was struggling between points on the other side of the net, or did you just try and block that out?   I imagine that is quite difficult to do. 
TIMEA BACSINSZKY:   I saw that she was taking some time between points, but, well, the referee didn't say anything.   I mean, they are professional enough to say something if it's too long or whatever.
So, well, she maybe struggled, but at the end she's the winner of the match.   Struggling or not struggling, at the end, well, I was just focusing on what I was doing and not really paying attention of any kind of things which were happening on court.
At this level of the tournament I think you have to keep your mind quite cold and cool for any situation.   Also with the atmosphere, with the big crowd and stuff, and so that's why I didn't ‑‑I was just focused on my game, and I tried to keep all my energy for my tactics and not about carrying other stuff around.

Q.   There was a couple of points in the third set when you hit the two forehands, two unforced errors.   How much did that affect your concentration for the rest of the match?
TIMEA BACSINSZKY:   If we are talking about occasions, that was maybe one.   But then I think I offered myself another opportunity in the second game.   Well, I didn't do it, but I still was seeking for another one.   It happened in the third game.   Well, didn't do it. 
I was all the time seeking for other ones.   Because once you miss one opportunity, doesn't mean that you're going to lose the match.   I mean, a tennis match is quite long and many things can happen, and I was aware of that. 
Even if I lost those maybe three occasions, for sure they would have helped me maybe to, yeah, break her, I don't know, 10‑games winning streak.   But, well, it didn't happen today.
But maybe next time I'm going to handle it better and I'm going to take this small pace and, well, take this occasion.   Well, I know that I fought until the last point.   I was quite angry to miss that backhand on match point because it was not that difficult. 
But, well, otherwise I know that on every point I was there and I was ready to give her a lot of things to work on.

Q.   I know you said you're very focused on your side of the court and what you had to do, but how much, if at all, does it come into your mind that you're playing Serena Williams, and does it feel like her limit is limitless, that she can bring another gear when she needs to?
TIMEA BACSINSZKY:   I think you have to try to forget all of that no matter who you're playing against.   At the end they have two hands, they have two legs, they have a brain.   I mean, some are like, I don't know, playing some style of tennis; other ones are other styles.
We are all human beings.   You don't have to ‑‑because, maybe, I don't know, one day I could feel, I don't know, sick, and maybe the odds are saying I have to win this match because, I don't know, I'm playing against someone which is 500 in the world.   But she can play well; I can play bad. 
Well, every day is different.   So I learned that no matter what's happening or who I'm playing against, I'm all the time trying, well, to focus on what I have to do, and, yeah, try to pull out the best match I can.
As I was saying while I was playing here in Paris ‑ and I know this quote was taken sometimes ‑ like I'm not trying to be brilliant; I'm trying to be efficient when I'm on a tennis court. 
No matter how you manage to win, most important thing is to win the last point, right?   Even if you have to, I don't know, serve from under.   No?   Chang did it, and he managed to win it.   Maybe it was a good solution at this moment.
Well, that's what I'm trying to focus on.
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French. 

Q.   Did you have the impression that the fifth game of the second set, that is when you broke her, it was the sixth break point, but what's paradoxical is that it was in the court, and therefore the question is what did you say when you shook hands?
TIMEA BACSINSZKY:   Well, what was the first question then? 
I don't know ‑‑well, my answer is probably, yes, she was in the match again.   But here again, we will never know.   We will never know. 
Had I won at 40‑Love, had I won then, but it didn't happen this way.   So take things the way they happened.   This time I had played a very good game.   Then she managed to come into the match at that moment.   That's probably why she's so strong.
You know, many things were posing difficulties to her.   Like she had to work on what I was doing, and then she managed to find a solution which means that she has a lot of merit for that. 
Well, no wonder that she's won 19 Grand Slam titles.   No wonder she's had so many victories. 
That's it.   Have I answered your first question, more or less? 
Shaking hands, oh, yeah.   I think, well, she said, Well done.   Congratulations.   I think.   But then it's all a bit vague, because there are moments when I think there are so many emotions that come to your brain. 
Now, look at Murray.   When he said he won Wimbledon, he doesn't even know ‑‑not Wimbledon, but the Olympic Games‑‑ he couldn't even remember the points during the last games. 
So there is a point when there is so much information, so many emotions that get to your brain that there is a sudden blackout in the brain.
As I said, Congrats; well done; all the best.   That's it. 

Q.   What about your tears when you left the court?   What was there in these tears?
TIMEA BACSINSZKY:   Well, a bit of disappointment, of course.   Emotion.   Well, you know, at this level in the competition we are all people who love to compete and win matches, which means that this year I have won many.   I'm lucky.   I didn't lose many. 
Therefore, when I lose there are emotions, because I think, Okay, I couldn't find the right solution today.
So it's like a child, a child who couldn't find a solution.   We are all children, after all.   It's emotions to be here today. 
I also looked at my box, at all these people who had come for me, dear to my heart.   You know, I'm talking about them and you can feel I have emotions in my voice.   I will try not to cry this time, but it's a long, long way.
I'm very proud of what I have done.   It was incredible to be able to play in front of these people.   I do hope I will give them again lots of emotions and play many matches like this one. 

Q.   I'd like to know about Serena and how theatrical she was when she was showing people she was perhaps sick.   Do you think it's natural for her to do this, or do you think it was a tactic that she had come up with to destabilize the other player?   Is it physical or mental?   I don't know. 
TIMEA BACSINSZKY:   Well, as I said earlier on ‑‑well, in English ‑‑I said I was looking at my side of the court.   I was not really looking at her.   Sometimes I know that she was taking a bit more time, but I never really thought, Oh, she's doing it on purpose to destabilize me.
No.   Why would she do this?   Well, this is not how I felt.   I didn't really have the feeling she was doing it to try and destabilize me, something mean, no. 
I think if she was sick today‑‑ you know, anybody can be sick during a tennis match, or unwell.   All days are different.   Maybe next tournament I play I will be in the same condition.   Who knows? 
This is why she deserves to win, because she found the solutions against a very little Swiss girl who did her best today and who played her best tennis to bother her.
Now, did she do it naturally or not?   I don't know.   I rarely ‑‑well, I don't rarely ‑‑ but I sometimes watch her matches and sometimes it does happen, that's true, but I couldn't say.   I couldn't say if she does it naturally or not.   I don't know her personally.
Well, you know, whether this be theatrical or not, it's part of the game.   You know, the rules are clear.   The one who wins is the one who wins the very last point.   We have umpires and referees to appraise these things, to evaluate if there are things that are not really fair play.
If the umpires or referees say it's okay, I mean, why wouldn't it be accepted then? 

Q.   You were saying you were cool‑headed.   6‑4, 3‑2 when you were sitting down, did you think at that moment you would reach the finals?   I don't know.   You know, it was only three more games for you to win the match. 
TIMEA BACSINSZKY:   No.   Really, no.   At the time I sat down I had thrown a ball into my back at that moment or just the game before.   I took this ball, gave it to the ball boys, and then I sat down.   And that's all. 
I thought, Okay, play your tactics.   I was analyzing the things that were working well and the things that were not working well.   I was ready for the next game. 
In the past, when I was younger, when I was feeling okay, I'm getting nearer, just before a win or close to winning, I know that sometimes I would think, Okay, maybe I'm going to win the match. 
But it's not happened to me since I have started again with Dimitri.   We discussed this once, you know, this stress just before a victory. 
In fact, it's something that today ‑‑well, today I didn't think about it when I was sitting down.   I was thinking about my tactics. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT