ROLAND GARROS
June 1, 2015
Timea Bacsinszky
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 T. BACSINSZKY/P. Kvitova
  2‑6, 6‑0, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English.   
   
 Q.   What do you think was the key to turning around that match so quickly in your favor in the second?  
TIMEA BACSINSZKY:   Well, I think at the beginning I didn't have my own rhythm, so it was a kind of strange set, the first one, because it was quite windy and I couldn't get like the angles I wanted or I just couldn't get the balls I wanted.  
After the loss of the first set, I just told myself, Okay, now that you're already standing here, just try to figure out the solution.   I told myself, Okay, if it doesn't work, just run, give the balls back, and when you get a pace to get a winner, like to go for a winner, just go for it.  
Well, I just wanted to make her work more, because I think at the beginning I just couldn't keep a rally.   She was pushing me quite a lot, as well.  
Then I started to move also my legs way more all the time.   I was jumping and committed to the game.   It helped me a lot also for the third set.  
   
 Q.   Have you surprised yourself at all at what you've done for the last week, week and a half here in Paris?   What are your kind of overall emotions after a big win like this?  
TIMEA BACSINSZKY:   Well, I think I'm surprising myself every day for a year now already.   (Smiling.)   Who'd have thought?   Not me.  
Well, I just always try to focus as much as I can on practices and on matches and try to push myself so far as possible.  
And it was the same today.   Like for sure losing 2‑6 the first set, you're like, Okay, I'm not in a good position.   I would love to be in the opposite position.  
So I said, Well, okay, do what you learned for the last two years:   all the time trying to find a solution and not waiting for the miracle to arrive.  
Yeah, I tried to be committed and to give the heart on the court.   Try to rally for everything.   Try to give one ball back, an extra ball back.  
I have never tried actually to be brilliant.   I tried to be efficient.   So I'm not trying to play a beautiful tennis or something like that.   I'm just trying to, yeah, be effective on what I'm doing.  
And it helps me, I think, a lot.  
   
 Q.   Going back to two years ago when you came here for qualifying, did you have any thought that now, just two years later, you'd be in the quarterfinals at least?   
TIMEA BACSINSZKY:   No.   Well, never.   Never, ever.   
Well, after my match also like I was lucky to be able to sign the camera for the first time.   I just said, Thanks, mom.   I mean, I call her mommy.   It's Hungarian.   We call her that way.   
Well, I remember her eyes when two years ago I just woke up, read the e‑mail, went down for breakfast.   I'm like, I'm not going to eat.   I was jumping.   I had butterflies like in my stomach.   I'm like, I'm going to Roland Garros.   
She was like, You got to be kidding me.   Stop doing like quitting, not quitting.   Be responsible.   She was like, No, but some one.   You're going to be ridiculous on court.   I was like, I don't care.   I don't care.   I want to go.   
I will probably keep on playing.   She was like, Well, we'll see.   We'll see.  
While I was driving I just called her again.   I'm like, Well, I'm going to play again.   I don't care if I get bageled in my match.   I don't care.   I'm going to keep on playing.   Be ready when I come back.   We're going to sort it out.   
How it's gonna be possible to make it happen, that I play again.   She was like, Okay, well, there's not much money left.   I'm going to try to help you as much as I can.   We will see how far you go. I'm going to support you.   She said that.   
Well, I remember when I just came back and I had those kind of sprinkles in my eyes, and she was like, Okay, we're gonna find a solution.   We're gonna try.  
Well, without her I wouldn't have been here.   I think no one on earth would have given me any financial support or something two years ago with a broken foot, with, I don't know, the past that I had and everything.   No one would have thought that.  
She was the one.   Yeah, and then my coach, as well.  
   
 Q.   You said that you continue to surprise yourself every day.   I'm wondering, what is it exactly you're surprised about?   Your quality?   That you are even on the court?   That these wins, you are getting the results?   What is surprising?  
TIMEA BACSINSZKY:   I'm not only talking about tennis.   It's also out of tennis, the way I behave.   I mean, I'm more relaxed also with people.   I'm just more gentle also with my surroundings.  
Like maybe it helps definitely for like how to play, as well, because I'm more calm with myself.   If I miss an opportunity, it's okay.   I will try to seek for another one.   
If I don't get the other one, okay.   Then, okay, I'm going to try for the third.   If it doesn't happen, then at the end it's only a tennis match.  
So I'm not going to heal the hunger in the world or something like that playing tennis.   I'm just, yeah, trying to enjoy what I'm doing.  
That's why I'm just surprising myself, because sometimes I get the good lucidity to choose the right shot maybe at the right moment.   Even if I miss it, then it makes maybe shake the head of my opponent a little bit.   
Well, I'm not just ‑‑I'm surprising how calm actually I am and all my surrounding also.   My brother, he's like, How can you be so calm on the tennis court?   
They used to play tennis also a little bit.   They just couldn't believe.   I think this is the big improvement.   For sure I have big inspiration:   Federer, Wawrinka, Hingis.   
Yeah, well, we're lucky in Switzerland.   As I told you in Wuhan, it's the cheese and the chocolate.   Definitely.   It's for sure.   
   
 Q.   As surprised as you are to be here, I'm guessing your next opponent is even more surprised.   I don't know if you know who are you playing.   Alison.   What are your thoughts on that and this sort of opportunity that the two of you have in this quarterfinal against each other?   
TIMEA BACSINSZKY:   Well, I mean, if she's in the quarterfinal, she definitely plays really, really, really well.   She managed to, yeah, beat such a‑‑ I mean, big tennis players, as well.  
We say in French...   (In French)   I don't know how can you translate it.   
   
 Q.   That's not as good an expression in English.   
TIMEA BACSINSZKY:   Not as good?   Okay, sorry.   I mean, for sure everyone on her way and on mine, like today, Petra, she tried everything to be in the spot of the quarterfinals.   So it's the same for me and for Alison. We both had a long way to get here.  
About the opportunity of maybe a semifinal, well, you know, just won my fourth round for the first time, so maybe I just repeat myself I guess for the Swiss journalists.   When I have a nice win, I try to stay with the moment.   I have enough time until after tomorrow to think about the quarterfinal, but I'm definitely going to be ready for it and I'm going to sell my skin.   (Laughter.)   Like with a really, really big price.   
This was a translation, but it doesn't sound that good.   
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French.   
   
 Q.   I turned to commentators before the match, and they told me that her ranking doesn't reflect her level, but she doesn't know about her level because her level is quite big.   Have you noticed that you've improved significantly?   
TIMEA BACSINSZKY:   Thank you.   That's a great compliment.   
No.   I don't know what is the margin for progress.   That's great.   I don't know where my limits are.   And so much the better, so I know that my career will be long.  
I will be able to push myself day by day, week by week, year by year, in order to go further.  
So that's a great compliment, and whatever happens, I hope that I will be able to give the best.   I just want to make sure that I have tried everything to win the match.  
If it doesn't work, it's not a big deal.   There will be plenty of opportunities in the future.   A career is quite long.   
   
 Q.   So you didn't serve well in the first set; you tried to move.   Is it because you started the match at 7:30 p.m., the court was empty, totally different to the ambience and atmosphere of the day?   Was it difficult to handle that, this late start?  
TIMEA BACSINSZKY:   I don't know what were the factors.   I have some ideas, of course.   So I don't know if this had an impact, but I got off to a bad start.   The rhythm was not quite good as far as I'm concerned.  
We didn't play well in the first set.   We were struggling.   It was a sort of war.   It was a matter of knowing who would be able to get the groove.  
She got the groove the first, and then I said, Let's do something else.   Why am I surprised by myself?   In the past I may have panicked.   I'm very proud of what I have achieved.   I'm using the good and bad experiments and experiences of the past, and this helps me quite a lot.   
The match against Muguruza at the Australian Open in the third round, in the first set I was not really involved.   The match against Muguruza helped me to manage the match of today.  
So that's why I managed to turn the situation around.  
   
 Q.   So you mentioned being relaxed.   On court from the outside we are under the impression that you're relaxed with these good results.   How can you be relaxed?   Because you have to manage your emotions and feelings; first quarterfinal in a Grand Slam tournament.   We are under the impression that you are used to pressure from the outside.   
TIMEA BACSINSZKY:   When I step out on court I don't have to report to anyone.   I want to have fun on a tennis court.   I want to enjoy it.   I want to make sure that I find a solution to win the last point.  
I don't want to be brilliant or bright.   I want to be efficient.   That's all.   You cannot practice some unbelievable tennis every day.   Of course, I accept if I don't play well every day.   There are lots of matches during the year.   
If a coach tells me that I have to play well in all the matches, I would say that's not possible.   I'm very happy with the people around me.   They help me and we joke quite a lot.   
Of course people around me don't have too many expectations, and I don't expect much from me.   When I win a match I'm very happy, and that's all.   
A win won't last forever, and a tennis player cannot play until 80 years of age.   So I just want to enjoy the present moment.   If I don't seize an opportunity, it's not a big deal.   This is my philosophy.   It's just a tennis match.   That's all.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT