ROLAND GARROS
May 28, 2015
Timea Bacsinszky
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  T. BACSINSZKY/T. Smitkova  6-2, 6-0    THE MODERATOR: Questions in French, please.   Q.  You're losing two to one and then you won a lot of games in a row.  Has that ever happened to you before, where you have won so many games in a row?  TIMEA BACSINSZKY: I can't remember if it ever happened to me before.  I think it's maybe happened once or twice where I was in a similar situation. I actually realize it only after the match.  When I was in the match I didn't really count.  I was really focusing on my game and I was really trying to make myself as disturbing as possible for her and put myself in the position to win the last point, of course.   Q.  Next match, Madison Keys.  Powerful player.  How do you see this next match?  TIMEA BACSINSZKY: Well, first of all, I'm going to enjoy today's win.  You don't make it to the third round of a Grand Slam every day, do you? As far as I'm concerned, it's the first time.  I think it's cool.  I'm very happy.  I'm going to enjoy it for now. As I said in the previous rounds, the game is two days from now.  Two days is a long time, so plenty of time. She made to the third round, which means she's a great player.  I think she deserves to be where she is.  I think it will be an interesting match.   Q.  Are you still not looking at the draws?  TIMEA BACSINSZKY: Well, I know who my next opponent will be, and I'm not really interested in anything else.   Q.  You have no idea and are you making sure you don't come across any information?  TIMEA BACSINSZKY: I'm not paranoid.  I know more or less, but I don't really know what will happen, who could be the next ones.  You know, I do not want to go into too much thinking. Yesterday I was asked to answer a question about Bencic.  Now I know I won't play her in the third round, for example, so there is no need to think too much and be too proactive before you have even played the next match.   Q.  Have you played Madison Keys?  Have you trained with her?  Do you know her?  TIMEA BACSINSZKY: I have never trained with Madison; I have never played her.  I have seen her play several times, but I wasn't really paying too much attention, you know, because I didn't know I was ever going to play her.   Q.  In today's match you were really dominating.  How did you feel about your game?  How do you see your performance?  TIMEA BACSINSZKY: I think I played a great match today.  Being in control like I was today doesn't happen every day.  I wasn't really expecting to be in so much control of the match.  I think this was an exception. Of course I don't expect this to happen every time and I don't want to use this match as a reference from now on.  It happens from time to time.  We call it a good day. You know, my opponent didn't really know exactly what to do, and I think it really caused me to dominate the way I did, which is great.  I think, once again, I played a great match.  I'm very proud. But, again, it's exceptional.  I also thought I was very focused.  I didn't do too much.  I didn't overplay.  I knew my tactics, I knew what I wanted to do, and I simply tried to deliver. I think she had prepared very well.  For example, the first game I did a dropshot and she got it, so I had to adjust to her game.  I had to find the keys to become successful. This is something I managed to do today, and obviously it was destabilizing for her.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT