BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 15, 2015
Timea Bacsinszky
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







T. BACSINSZKY/E. Makarova
  3‑6, 7‑5, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   14 this a row now.   How does that feel?
TIMEA BACSINSZKY:   Well, amazing.   (Smiling.)   Yeah, I have no idea where it comes from.   I mean, for sure hard work, but it's a lot.   It shows us that humans have resources that sometimes they don't even suspect. 
Yeah, just try to keep pushing myself.   So far, I think it works pretty well.

Q.   Down 3‑0, double break in the third set, do you still feel like you have forgotten how to lose and you're going to win anyway?
TIMEA BACSINSZKY:   Well, it's not that easy, even if I make it look easy.   But, no. 
I don't put any pressure on myself.   I just try to play the next shot.   And, well, she played unbelievably well at the beginning of the third set.   Like she went for a bathroom break. 
But then like if I'm objective on what happened, okay, I get broken, but like the first game or ‑‑yeah, first game I make maybe one mistake or two mistakes, but like it's one unforced error or something like that.   But then she's just like hitting winners out of nowhere. 
So I was like, okay, all the time in the angle, like in soccer.   So I was like, Okay, well done.   I was just patient.   I said, Well, it's good energy.   You know, a match has a lot of waves, and I was sure like if she wants to beat me she has to keep it up, like playing so well for the whole set.
So I know I can run a lot, and I had my defense.   My defense is pretty good so far.   So I would make her work.   I was sure she would maybe later on give me small pace to then let me strike again.
I think that happened.

Q.   Do you feel like you're starting a really special year here?   Just based on, you know, the race to Singapore, now you're 10th.   So you're really close. 
TIMEA BACSINSZKY:   Oh, really? 

Q.   Yeah. 
TIMEA BACSINSZKY:   Okay.   It's cool.

Q.   Do you feel like you're really playing, you know, that well?   That sort of top, top‑level tennis?
TIMEA BACSINSZKY:   Um, my philosophy is not all the time to be playing well but to be efficient.   I mean, really today I played awkward at the beginning of the match, and she didn't play well either.   We had no rhythm.   It was not that nice to see, but, well, it happens.
And then the more the match was lasting, better I was playing.   I think this philosophy helps me, as well, for all my wins.   Because at the end, yeah, I can be brilliant on court sometimes, some days, but it's not happening every day.
Most of the days I feel pretty bad at some point on the court because I'm not hitting the balls where I want.   So, yeah, I'm just patient.   Yeah, so far I will be patient, too, for the race.   If I do it, then it's cool.   If I don't, well, I'm going to work and I'm going to keep on playing and keep on enjoying what I'm doing.
I won't be sad if I don't make it at the end of the year.   It's not a particular goal.   I'm just, yeah, trying to still enjoy what I'm doing, and I'm enjoying it really a lot.

Q.   Do you have goals for this year? 
TIMEA BACSINSZKY:   No, not at all.   Because I don't know until where I can go.   I didn't read Agassi's book, but I think someone like my coach told me that there is written like‑ he said it‑ that it happened that his best was to be No. 1. 
Well, that's awesome, but I don't know where is my best, where are my limits.   So I don't want to say to myself, Oh, I want to reach this or I want to reach that.   I know some of the Swiss journalists have already heard this answer, so I sound pretty boring.   Sorry, guys, but I'm not going to create something new just for the news. 
I'm just, yeah, trying to push myself every day at practice or when I'm playing a match, trying to be as much professional as I can while I'm on the tennis court.   Yeah, take also some time to relax when I'm not on court.   Yeah. 

Q.   How do you feel physically at this point?   How much work have you put into your fitness condition?
TIMEA BACSINSZKY:   Physically, yeah, for sure I'm tired.   (Smiling.)   But, well, I think it's normal.   You cannot have everything.   You cannot win two tournaments, play well, win two matches, and feeling so fresh.
So I have to deal for sure with some tensions here and there in my body.   But it's part of the game, so best players are the ones which can manage the year with, yeah, their bodies as well and taking care.
So trust me, I have been a lot to the physio in the last few days.   I make them work a lot.   (Smiling.)
I'm sure I had to answer to something else.

Q.   How much work you have putting... 
TIMEA BACSINSZKY:   How much work, yeah.   Well, I worked a lot with my physical coach, Benedict Lendor (ph) at Swiss tennis in Biel Bienne.   I assume you're French. 

Q.   Yes. 
TIMEA BACSINSZKY:   And, yeah, he's physical preparer of Swiss Tennis.   So when I started to play again tennis, Swiss Tennis were generous enough to tell, Hey, we pay this physical preparator to you, but you just have to come to practice at the national center.   That's what we did and that's why we practicing between Lausanne and Biel. 
I mean, without him I wouldn't have been here, as well.   I think it's great teamwork also between my coach, Benny, the physical coach, and then my manager, as well.   My physio, my doc.   I mean, my mom.   Without her, I wouldn't have been here, as well, because she kind of financed the beginning of my comeback.
And, well, I think they are all ‑‑we are all working together.   Yeah, so far it's great work.   So I wouldn't be here without them, for sure.

Q.   When you were a junior, top junior, how different were your expectations then to how your career has panned out now?
TIMEA BACSINSZKY:   Oh, well, when I was a junior I was kind of meant to play tennis.   I mean, I wasn't that passionate as I am now, really, for what I'm doing.
So it's different when you put the heart in it.   Before it was just like I was doing it because I was really, really strong when I was a kid, especially under 14. 
Yeah, at the age of 13 or even 12.   Anyway, I was, yeah, too good.   It kind of then made me a lot of‑‑ did put a lot of pressure on myself, all the expectations.   Then, you know, in Switzerland we are kind of spoiled, as well, because we have so many great tennis players.
But then they all the time compare everyone to every other and stuff.   I mean, at the end, everyone is a different human being, and the career can be influenced by many other stuff, as well.
So I know that I was really strong at one point, but then not anymore.   Trust me.   I was pretty bad for what people were expecting of me.
But, well, it wasn't really my heart ‑‑I mean, it wasn't really me.   I mean, not me, but it wasn't really, yeah, my whole body and heart and soul, which was putting effort into it.
And this really changed.   From the time that I took a little break and I came back on tour, it really changed.   I think my results are showing it.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT