THE CHAMPIONSHIPS WIMBLEDON
July 4, 2017
Timea Bacsinszky
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
T. BACSINSZKY/M. Puig   
6-1, 3-6, 6-0   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  A general question about the tournament.  There has been a lot of retirements on the men's side, and only one so far on the women.  I think it's 6-1.  
TIMEA BACSINSZKY: 6-1?   
 Q.  But generally it's not that different than normal.  There is always a lot more for the men than the women.  
TIMEA BACSINSZKY: Who is the one in women?   
 Q.  Potapova, she hurt her knee.  She fell down.  
TIMEA BACSINSZKY: Oh, bad luck for her.  It was her first slam at 16.   
 Q.  Just in general, why do you think women quit less than men?  
TIMEA BACSINSZKY: It's all the time those debates between men and women (smiling).   
You know what?  I most of the time do my stuff, enjoy the job I'm doing, and not really, like, kind of comparing, like, who is more this year and who is less.  Because it changes every year.  I think sometimes girls are retiring most and men otherwise --   
 Q.  It's almost always the guys.  
TIMEA BACSINSZKY: Oh, well, then, yeah, I don't know why.   
This prize money thing about taking the prize money, I mean, we can talk about it for ages, as well.  Do you deserve your spot?  You deserve your spot at a Grand Slam, because if you have the ranking for it, even if you have been injured, I mean, you deserve to be there.   
But then how many of them were they able to finish the match and how many were not?  They have to know their own.  It's how they look in the mirror.  I mean, how they are kind of...  How do you say?  (speaking French.)   
 Q.  A piece of themselves?  
TIMEA BACSINSZKY: If they are okay with that, then good for them.   
It's the same things, in many things in life, like, are you okay to live with that or not?  This is not like a crime or something.   
But for example, I know if I retire it's really like I cannot finish the match or I would injure myself way more.  But most of the time if I'm like that, I don't even try.  I just withdraw.  Or I hate to, like, withdraw right away.  Well, I try and then if I really, really can't, then I can't.   
But it happened twice this year for me, and I have kind of -- I had regrets that I actually went on court.  It was against Putintseva in Doha after the Fed Cup and then against Pliskova, because of my wrist, and I couldn't hit any backhand and I was slicing.  Well, if it would be another player than Pliskova I think I would be able to slice a little bit more to maybe try and create something.  But against Pliskova, if you end up only slicing, you're going to lose easily.   
Well, this debate can last forever.  Well, whatever.  Sorry.   
I know what I would do in that position.  I'm sure that the ATP and the WTA will, like, take measures of, like, I don't know, giving certain amount, I don't know, to the potential Lucky Loser or kind of, kind of, make an agreement or whatever or give the full prize money to all the first rounds.  I don't know.  There are many -- I'm here to play tennis.  Not to take care of those things.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT