US OPEN
September 7, 2000
Arantxa Sanchez Vicario
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 MODERATOR: Questions for Jared and Arantxa.  
 
Q. What made your partnership click? Why were you such a good team together? 
 
 JARED PALMER: Well, I think the key to the whole week was Arantxa really returned serve
so well. I think a lot of times in mixed doubles you get the guy, you know, making a lot
of returns, and against the other guy, the girl has a lot of trouble getting the ball
back. I think Arantxa has such a good return. She made so many returns that I was able to
do some stuff up at the net. I think that was the key.  
 
Q. Arantxa? 
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Well, I guess I just try to, you know, help as much as I can.
I mean, Jared is very quick on the net. He gave me a lot of confidence even when I was at
the net, just cover my side, sometimes even go for it. I feel very comfortable playing
with him. Was the first time. I enjoy it. Couldn't be better.  
 
Q. How did you decide to play together? 
 
 JARED PALMER: Well, we just kind of came together, I guess. We had tried to play at
Wimbledon, and that didn't work out. So when I saw Arantxa here, I just asked her. I guess
she was nursing a bad ankle that she'd hurt a little bit, so she was deciding whether or
not to play mixed. I'm glad that she decided to play.  
 
Q. You walk out on court. There are all these people whistling, the cat calls. Is it
embarrassing to have all that attention for your looks? 
 
 JARED PALMER: For me or for her? 
 
Q. I mean --
 
 JARED PALMER: I didn't even really notice that that much. She's been around for a while
now on the tour. I've been playing. I'm kind of used to it. You know, I had a tough match
earlier in the day. I was just pretty -- you know, I really didn't want to lose both
matches today, so I was pretty -- I was trying to just concentrate and do my thing and not
worry too much about that.  
 
Q. Is it a little bit of a circus atmosphere when Anna is on the court? 
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Well, it's always happening like this. But I guess, as Jared
said, I mean, I just trying to be focused, try to play my matches. Definitely
concentrating to try to win. I guess that help us to be focused, you know, and win it.  
 
Q. You seemed to be serving a lot better in the second set there. Did you make any
adjustments? 
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: I worked a lot, you know, very hard on my serve. It's
definitely improving so I can win, you know, more points now with my serve. I get more
confidence. Mixed doubles, when you know it's very important, the serve from the woman. If
you hold it, you have more chances to break the next one. I was just trying to be very
concentrate. I did serve well during the whole week. 
 
Q. How much did experience play a role for you two? Both obviously older players than
your two opponents. Did that matter? 
 
 JARED PALMER: I don't know. I mean, I think Arantxa, you know, she's had such a great
career. I think today on some big points, I think that showed. You know, for example, on
the breakpoint, you know, when Max crossed, she just hit it solid right up the line. I
think that's the sign of a champion. She has done that over and over. I think for sure
that helped today.  
 
Q. Breaking Max twice in the first set, how much of a lift was that? Obviously not
something you expected. 
 
 JARED PALMER: Well, I mean, you just kind of -- you know, you don't really say,
"We broke Max." We just were, you know, winning games. I mean, I don't think we
really got too much of a boost from that, other than breaking serve.  
 
Q. You had a tough Davis Cup result in LA. How important is it to you to get back into
Davis Cup dubs with Alex? 
 
 JARED PALMER: It's always for me been a goal of mine. I've been playing a lot of
doubles. You know, it's something I was disappointed that we didn't have a chance --
another chance, after losing in LA. You know, I think for the remainder of my career,
doubles will be something that I take seriously. You know, it's always going to be
something that I want to do, is play Davis Cup. For next year, it's certainly a goal.  
 
Q. Have you spoken at all with John? What do you think it would take to get you and
Alex chosen again? 
 
 JARED PALMER: I haven't talked to him about that. I mean, he's been here. I talked to
him, but not about any specifics about next year. 
 
Q. A little off the subject, Arantxa. How does it feel to have a thousand people at
your wedding? Were you more nervous for that than you were in any of the Grand Slam
finals? 
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: No (laughter).  
 JARED PALMER: She would have had the advantage of alcohol.  
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: No, I mean, it was completely different day. I guess I'm used
to it, you know, to have a lot of people. I guess I can control that better than my
husband. But there definitely were a lot of people. It was, you know, our day. So
definitely we handle it really well. I mean, it's completely different. I was more nervous
playing with Martina than I was at my wedding (laughter). 
 
Q. Are you going to add your husband's name to yours? 
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: It's already add, but it's too long.  
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT