US OPEN
September 1, 2000
Arantxa Sanchez Vicario
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Questions for Arantxa.  
 
 
Q.  On Wednesday when you were asked what you knew about Allison Bradshaw, you said, "Who?"  What did you find out about her yesterday that helped you in this match?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, obviously, I mean, she must be playing well to be in the third round.  It's kind of weird to go to a third round and have to play somebody new.  I think she's a big girl.  She hits the ball really hard.  I mean, the first set was, you know, pretty close.  Then later I think that, you know, I play better and better.  Once I start moving her, then she has much more trouble. 
 
Q.  When did you know you had her?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, I think 5-4.  I mean, I start really well.  After 5-4, you know, I realize what I have to do, good into tiebreak.  I guess that was the end of the match. 
 
Q.  You had to serve at 4-5.  You had to serve at 5-6.  You hit seven winners in eight points there.  That's pretty good. 
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Yeah, I mean, that definitely helped me.  I feel very confident, you know, doing that.  When I need to make a good shot, I did it.  I improve a lot on my serve.  That helps me now to win a lot of free points. 
 
Q.  What do you suppose Allison Bradshaw would have to do to have a future in tennis?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  I think for her probably, I mean, she really take advantage of the wildcard and get into the third round.  But she has a lot of future.  I mean, she's just young.  She just need to play more tournaments.  She has the game, especially on fast surface, to do well.  I mean, actually she's only 17, right?  
 
Q.  19. 
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Oh, yeah.  But, still, she has a long way to go.  
 
Q.  You'll face Nathalie in the next round.  She's been playing very good tennis.  Talk a little bit about the way your game matches up with hers. 
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  I think it's going to be a different match.  I mean, I play three players that hits the ball really hard.  She's more like serve-and-volley.  She definitely, you know, try to come in as much as she can to the net.  I will have to pass her, attack as well as I did.  We didn't play for a long time.  Obviously it's going to be a tough match.  I'm playing well enough and I'm looking forward for that match. 
 
Q.  How many years has it been since you played?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Her?  
 
Q.  Yes. 
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  I have no idea.  I don't know. 
 
Q.  It's been a while. 
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Yes. 
 
Q.  Do you mind to answer a few questions about the doubles match yesterday?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  The doubles?  
 
Q.  Yes.  Did you expect such a tough match?  Yesterday was quite difficult. 
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Yeah, it was a tough match.  I mean, I think we all play well.  It was very, you know, good points.  At the end, you know, we finish up playing better.  It was a lot of fun.  
 
Q.  Did you have time to practice with Martina before?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Yeah, we practice before the match.  We work out a couple things.  Now we'll try to do it more for the next match.  
 
Q.  When she offered to play with you, did you take time to think about it or did you just say, "Yes, I will do it"? 
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  I mean, just when she asked me, I just say yes right away.  It's been nine years since the last time we played together.  It's a great opportunity to play with her.  We can do very well as a team.  Definitely we have a lot of fun and we can play well.  That's good. 
 
Q.  What about the difference in her game? 
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, I think that once we were crossing, we were winning more points at the end and win the tiebreak.  We will try to do that more often in the next match. 
 
Q.  The difference between the game she used to play and now?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  I mean, she still, I mean, playing great.  I mean, she has so much experience.  She's still volleying really well.  I guess as a team, I try to help as much as I can.  I can also learn a couple things; help her, she can help me.  That's what the doubles about.  
 
Q.  You were talking the other day about how excited you are about the Olympics.  Is there any chance that it could become a distraction, coming so soon?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  I mean, first you concentrate about the last Grand Slam.  Obviously, it's very close between, you know, both big events.  The more matches I play here, the more prepared you are for the Olympics.  So definitely you just focus first year, and then later you'll be ready for that. 
 
Q.  I presume you're very excited about going to Sydney?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Yeah, definitely.  It would be my fourth Olympics.  I'm real excited.  It's completely different atmosphere.  It's just great feeling to be with the best athletes of your country. 
 
Q.  Is that what you're most looking forward to, being around the other athletes?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Yeah, the opening ceremony, being with the athletes.  You don't have the chance to see them very often because we have completely different schedules.  But that's a time where you can spend, you know, ten days knowing them more, make more friends, definitely see other events when you don't have to play. 
 
Q.  Who is the Olympic athlete you most look up to in your country?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  I mean, there is a lot.  They can do well in the swimming.  They can do well running, as well.  I look forward, you know, for that, maybe going to the gymnastics, as well.  It's amazing what they can do, maybe get a chance at that.  
 
Q.  You're one of the shortest players amongst the top women.  Why are we seeing so few players under 5'4" in the top ranks, while in the men there are more shorter players playing among the men? 
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, I think now the girls are much taller than before.  Besides that, sometimes is not only how the height you are.  You can see in the men that the shorter men are, you know, beating the top men as well.  Sometimes you have to adapt your game.  If you have quickness and mentally you're tough, you can beat them anyway.  You don't have to have only a powerful game.  You have to be smart and do the right thing.  Maybe in women you don't see that much.  I'm definitely happy to be one of that and be able to be as good and be there.  
 
Q.  How tall are you in inches?  Do you know?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Five foot eight. 
 
Q.  So you're not a shorty?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, compared with Williams or Davenport, maybe I am.  But there is some players who are even smaller than me. 
 
Q.  Could you foresee a player 5'4" and under being No.  1 in the world with this power game today?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  I mean, I'm 5'8" and I become No.  1.  If you do the right things, you can always do it.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT