CHASE CHAMPIONSHIPS OF THE WTA TOUR
November 15, 1999
Arantxa Sanchez Vicario
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. How do you find the speed of the court compared to Philadelphia? 
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO: Well, I didn't play in Philadelphia, so --. 
 
Q. Oh, you didn't play in Philadelphia?
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO: No. So I think I'm -- this court is different than the two
courts we've been practicing on, but I think that it's pretty -- it's not as fast as it
used to be.  
 
Q. Barbara Schett, since you've played her, has she improved, and does she have a
chance against Venus?
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO: I think she's a very talented player. She hits the ball really
good on the right; so the ball comes really fast. Obviously, I was not at my best, at all,
and just getting the last one. So I think that she did play really well the first set, and
second set was a little bit closer. I have a few little more chances to get closer and
stay with my serve. At the end, I lost the second set. But, I mean, she's hitting the ball
really well so far. 
 
Q. Is she competitive with Venus Williams in a match?
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO: I think anyone who is in the draw is very competitive; so all
matches are going to be very good. 
 
Q. (Inaudible)?
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO: No, I was expecting to play doubles. I was last one for main
draw, and I was not probably at my best. I was just practicing, getting ready to play some
doubles here at the end, but I got lucky and I got in. I think the second set was a little
bit better, and I know I was not 100%, and she did play much better than me. 
 
Q. The first set, was that partly due to the fact that you haven't played a lot lately?
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO: It went too fast. All the games, you know, went on her side,
really fast. I was missing a lot, the ball. The second set, I started to get a little more
close in the match; it was a little closer. But definitely, it's been long since I played
another match. But like I said, I was just thinking to come to play doubles here, but I
think I was happy to get in any way.  
 
Q. (Inaudible)?
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO: I never was supposed to play there, so I didn't pull out of
anything. My last time was in Filderstadt, and I was, you know, I've been playing a long
time in the summertime for the last few months, and I needed a break and I decided not to
play in the indoor tournament, to start practicing for the next season, and to become, you
know, better. I was not 100% and tried to, you know, get some time to prepare for next
year. 
 
Q. How much are you planning to play next year? I thought I read somewhere that you
might stop at Wimbledon?
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO: Everybody is asking me the same question. I am not going to
retire yet. I am getting married after Wimbledon, but that has nothing to do with that I
am going to stop playing. I think I'm going to try to start well at the beginning of next
year. This year, I have my five months' injury that I couldn't play at the beginning of
the year. So I'm looking forward to starting in good health at the Australian Open and try
to do well and continue to play. But not yet, I'm going to stop playing. 
 
Q. You've been a very smart player. When you do retire, can you see yourself possibly
coaching?
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO: I don't think so. I will have enough. (Laughs). I don't think
so. If my sons and daughter wants to play, but I don't think so.  
 
Q. Do you see improvement on Barbara's part?
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO: No, she's still playing as solid as the beginning of the year.
She has much more confidence in her game. But I think she's playing the same as the
beginning of the year, that's why she's still doing well. 
 
Q. Can you sum up your year? How will you look back on this year?
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO: I think it's been completely different year for me. Something
new that I have to live with, injury for five months. And when you know that you're not
100% to continue playing, it's kind of tough, and obviously, you have to be your best to
play all the matches. Otherwise it's very difficult. I think at the Grand Slam, I done
pretty good, but obviously, I'm looking forward to have a good season now, to prepare for
next year and start better at the beginning of next year. 
 
Q. Ten years ago, you won your first Grand Slam. What are your best memories of the
last ten years?
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO: Well, obviously, the past goes -- the time goes really fast. I
think you always remember the first time you win your first Grand Slam. I was very young;
I was 17, I was obviously a kid. The next few years, I was improving as a tennis player,
more mature, more experience. I think I'm very happy with all I've done so far, and as
long as I can be fit, I'll be there. But I have very good memories of the last ten years.  
 
Q. Have you decided on a new doubles partner for next year?
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO: No. 
 
Q. Do you see yourself playing at the Olympics in Spain?
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO: I hope so, yes. I look forward to that. It would be my fourth
Olympics. It's always very exciting to be representing your country, and hopefully, I'll
be nominated and be able to play there. 
 
Q. You defeated Barbara Schett in the German Open in 1997, and I noticed that you've
lost to her in straight sets at the Australian Open and here tonight. Has she improved
that much?
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO: I've already answered that question already. You want me to
answer it again?  
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT