COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
September 28, 1999
Arantxa Sanchez Vicario
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
WTA:  Questions for Arantxa, please.  
 
 
Q.  Was a very hard match for you.  Is Serena one of the best players yet after her victory by the US Open?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO:  Well, obviously she has a lot of confidence after winning the US Open, she play really well.  Unfortunately today I make, I don't know, many, many unforced errors, I mean, a lot.  That cause me a lot of trouble.  Maybe was one stage when I come back from 5-0 to 4-3 that I play a little bit better.  After that, the games went too fast.  She definitely doesn't give you too many chances.  She goes for the shots.  I think she play, you know, much more consistently definitely than myself.  Maybe if I wouldn't make so many errors, maybe it would be different.  
 
Q.  Why did you make so many errors? 
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO:  Well, my balls were going, flying a lot.  Even I put my racquet tighter, I could not  -- I was not controlling so well.  When I tried to force the ball a little bit for the other side, it was going very long.  I mean, probably things didn't work as good for me.  I think, you know, she play very well.  
 
Q.  You had a 4-0 record against her.  What's the difference in her game now?  Is she more powerful than she was before?  How would you describe the change in her?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO:  I mean, she definitely improved.  She's hitting the ball a little bit more consistent than before.  I think I didn't make as many errors.  If you want to beat her, you can't do that.  That was the difference.  Plus she makes a lot of winners.  
 
Q.  In that game where you served three doubles, you were looking as if you were being troubled by the light.  Was that a problem?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO:  Yeah.  I was not watching the ball  -- not watching, but I couldn't see the ball as good even the whole time.  I was just trying  -- I thought maybe it was my toss.  I did it even a bit higher.  I don't know.  I have some difficulties.  I maybe was not having my rhythm really well on my serve.  Normally I don't play, you know, three double-faults in a row.  It's been a long time.  As I say, you know, was not my day today at all.  
 
Q.  Four years or so ago when you first played Venus in her first tournament, you came back from behind and won, there was a lot of hype around Venus.  Did you have a sense of her future?  Did you have a sense that she would be an elite player? 
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO:  I think that was her first tournament when I play her.  It was indoors.  I saw that, you know, she was very big for the age of I think it was 15 or 16 when she played.  She was having a lot of potential.  She's getting really good serves, you know, making a lot of winners.  Obviously, she was going to become good.  She prove it.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT