US OPEN
September 3, 1999
Arantxa Sanchez Vicario
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
WTA:  Questions for Arantxa.  
 
 
Q.  Patty had 30 unforced errors.  She just seemed to be off, her game was off today.  How do you account for this lopsided victory?  Was it disappointing to play a player who wasn't able to get the ball back?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, I think, first of all, the match was not easy.  I just think I didn't let her be comfortable on the court at all.  I was moving the ball really well and forcing her a lot.  She was not in position, so she has to go for it.  That's why she makes more errors.  I think she's a very talented player.  You never know.  You have to still concentrate.  I think everything work really well for me.  I was really focused because it's not an easy match.  Once you are, you know, ahead, it works really well, you just have to continue.  That's what I done.  I'm happy with my victory. 
 
Q.  Do you derive a great deal of confidence coming out of this match?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Yeah, definitely.  As I say, if you let her come into the match, she can be very dangerous.  That gives me a lot of confidence, the win for me, how I play.  Gives me confidence for going into the next round. 
 
Q.  It looks likely that you'll be facing Martina Hingis.  Any thoughts on an upcoming match with Martina?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, I think I have nothing to lose.  She beat me the last many times we play.  Every match is different.  I just think that I will, you know, go into the court and try to give her a hard time and try to see if I can beat her this time.  I feel playing better than the last times we play. 
 
Q.  As we move on in the tournament, would a tougher match or a longer match today have been more beneficial to you heading into the next round?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, I don't think so.  I think if I would let her be long, it would probably be more difficult for me.  I prefer how I play, I didn't let it go too long, finish it up quickly.  That gives you more confidence to go and play against Hingis.  You know the things work really well today.  You be able to do it again against Martina. 
 
Q.  After losing to Martina two or three times in a row, how do you turn things around?  How do you summon the confidence to turn it around?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  I think when you play the No.  1 player in the world, you have nothing to lose.  I think she probably has more pressure.  You know you have to take your opportunities, even if you don't have too many.  That's what makes a difference.  You have to probably play a little more aggressive, so don't let her be all the time the one who is controlling the point.  That's things that you have to do really well, you know, if you want to beat her.  If you do that well, you know, you can beat her.  If not, it's a little more difficult.  Every match, as I say, is different.  Especially you just have to be very solid, be aggressive when you have the chance.  
 
Q.  Martina makes very few unforced errors.  I think in your last three matches, she showed that, because you felt like you had to be aggressive, you might have had too many yourself.  How do you make the change from being a steady, consistent player to an aggressive one overnight?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, I think you know you have to do that.  Obviously is much more risk for yourself to do that.  At least you know she gets to see that you not going to stay there waiting for her to miss.  Is a different game for me, but is been going better all the time in my matches.  When you do that against other players, knowing when you have to play the No.  1, you know you can do it probably better because you have nothing to lose.  You definitely have to not play so many unforced errors.  That's where is the problem, also the key of being, you know, close and try to beat her.  
 
Q.  What sort of preparation do you take now the next couple of days before this match to get ready to play her as opposed to coming off the match you had today?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, I have probably a day off, but I will have to play doubles.  Doubles can help me to, you know, practice my volley, my serve, and my return.  The day you have to play the match just, you know, have a good warm-up, just get ready.  It will be another match, you know, a big match.  You definitely look forward to playing, you know, the best player in the world. 
 
Q.  May I ask the name of your fiancee?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  You don't know yet?  
 
Q.  No. 
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  You must be the only one who doesn't know (laughter).  Juan Vehilis. 
 
Q.  You added your mother's name to your original name.  Are you going to be changing your name in any way once you get married?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Not at the moment.  It will be too long (laughter).  It doesn't go Sanchez Vicario, imagine putting another one.  So far, no.  Still Sanchez Vicario.  Maybe when I stop playing, I shorten it, cut it out a little bit. 
 
Q.  We're about to enter a new century next year.  Do you see tennis changing a lot in the next 10, 20 years, style of play, type of players?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  So far, women's tennis has changed.  It's much more powerful.  The game is changed a little bit.  We have to see in a few more years how it goes.  I think it's good for the game that more players, different styles of game.  The game is improved, so it's much more competition, definitely.  That's what it's all about, you know, to have tough matches at the beginning, you know, good tennis to play since the beginning. 
 
Q.  Have you seen a lot of young players who play like you do, mixing the ball around, getting a lot of shots back, or are most of the players you have played hitting hard and going for the lines more?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, I think when I started, I was 13, it was different styles of game more than now.  Now the youngers are playing really hard, they're really strong also physically so they have a lot of power.  They just make more winners.  Before, as you say, there was more variety and different styles.  The game is changing.  Probably now is much more powerful.  If a player have the abilities to play different shots, can do also very well.  You have to also be ready, you know, faster to compensate the power game.  
 
Q.  Who were your role models growing up?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Chris Evert and Martina both.  Different styles, but both.  
 
Q.  You've had success at the Grand Slams on hardcourts and clay.  How do you feel about this surface and Martina Hingis in the next round?  Do you prefer a hardcourt match with her? 
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  It is different.  Here the points go a little faster than on clay.  I really love, as you say, play on hardcourt.  You can play comfortable on the baseline or coming in.  I'm ready to play her any surface.  Hopefully I can do a good match playing her in this court.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT