US OPEN
September 1, 1999
Arantxa Sanchez Vicario
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Do you think that marriage next year is going to influence you to change your
scheduling, maybe slow down the number of tournaments you play? 
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO: My marriage?  
 
Q. I was told you were engaged to be married next year. 
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO: Yeah. But I will go to continue play. I mean, I slow down
already this year, you know, some tournaments. Next year it will be probably the same. Has
nothing to do. It's in the middle, the summer. I have plenty of time before that to play
and get ready for my wedding. 
 
Q. Are you slowing down because of the wrist or because you want to play fewer
tournaments?
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO: Well, I slow down first because I need it for my wrist, and
second because I think I was playing many matches the years before. I wanted to make sure
that I have better preparation for the Grand Slams and to be able to try to win those.  
 
Q. Describe for me, you hadn't played her before?
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO: No. 
 
Q. Going into this match, did you have any sense of nervousness? Can you describe
generally how the match went for you?
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO: It's always different when you play a player that you never
play before. When you play ones you know how to play. I expect that, you know, she's
hitting a lot of balls back. She likes to come in when she have a chance. She can mix it
up a lot, her game. I was very concentrated. I think I play very consistent at the
beginning. Then, you know, at the end I might get a little, you know, relaxed. It was kind
of hard to finish it up. I mix her around. I try to come in as much as I can, and it
worked. But she did play pretty well, I think. 
 
Q. Being a past champion, you've reached the quarterfinals a bunch of times,
semifinalist, finalist. What is it about the US Open that seems to bring out great play in
you?
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO: I think I like the tournament. I mean, the surface is going
along very well with my game. I get adapted really well with the wind. It's kind of hard
to play, every court you play is different. I love the atmosphere. I like the tournament a
lot. I always kind of like enjoyed New York a lot. Even I play always well, so it's even
better when you come to a place where you feel comfortable, feel a little bit like home.
Hopefully, I continue to do as well. 
 
Q. Do you feel confident about your chances, feel good about your game?
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO: I feel good. I think every match is going to get better. I'm
looking forward to continue improving, try to do my best.  
 
Q. How do you prepare for the US Open? Is it different than the other Slams? Do you
take a different approach?
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO: Well, I normally don't play a tournament before the Grand
Slam. I always done that, you know. I have a week to practice and get ready for the Grand
Slam. I done it the same here. This is the last Grand Slam of the year, so you want to do
well. I have very good preparation. I play two tournaments on hard court before. I done
really well. Playing as much matches as you can to get here, you know, in your best form.
In two weeks' period, a lot of things can happen. You just want to be playing your best.  
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT