US OPEN
August 30, 1999
Arantxa Sanchez Vicario
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







WTA: Questions for Arantxa.

Q. Were you surprised with the second set?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO: Well, not really. I think that after the first set, I was be
able, you know, not making so many errors, you know, moving her around. It was difficult
with the wind, but I attack I think the ball pretty well. It was a tough first round, but
I'm very happy the way things went for me. 

Q. Seemed to be playing her forehand mostly. Did you sense a weakness there?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO: Well, I think, you know, she was hitting -- making many more
winners on the backhand. But I just tried, you know, to mix the game, move her around.
When she's standing is when she hits the ball really well. I tried to move her around.
When I attacking the ball when I have my chances, and I think I serve really well, too, so
I think that help me a lot to win a lot of free points. Just trying, you know, to go for
the open spot, go for my shots. Maybe look like I play more to her forehand.

Q. Down 4-1 in the first, were you worried at all?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO: Well, the first game was really good for me, I break her
serve. After that, with the wind, I hit many errors, you know. She hit pretty good shots.
I know that I have to, you know, if I want to keep in the match, I have to change things.
I think I was more focused, more patience, you know, went for my shots. I start coming
back, you know, things turn around really well for me. In the important points, I think
that I did, you know, play better.

Q. You mentioned the wind. How tough were the conditions out there?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO: They were tough. I mean, it was very tough. It was moving.

Q. Swirling?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO: If you're going for one side or another, it's a little bit
more easy. It's hard anyway, but it was going around. It was really difficult. You have to
be looking the ball really careful, be very concentrate. I think I tried to never, you
know, get upset, even if I was down, I come back and play better. I was able to be win the
match, but it was tough for both of us.

Q. You also made a lot of nice comments when Steffi Graf retired. Now that the
tournament is here and she's not here, any other comments on the retirement of Steffi
Graf?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO: Well, I think I said it all. It's probably, you know, not easy
to see her not here at the tournament after so many years I've been playing on the Tour,
too. I mean, she's been a great competitor and she's also a good friend. All I say is, you
know, I mean it, and it's hard not to see her in the tournaments anymore. 

Q. With all these young players out there now, these teenagers dominating, is there any
sense of a little generational warfare with those of you who are in your ripe old age of
later 20s or 30-year-olds? Is there any feeling of, "Let's show what the veterans can
do"? 

ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO: I think what is good for the game is it's a lot of competition
right now. I mean, it's normal that the young ones are coming, a new generation. It was
the same when I started. I was also, you know, very young. I just think it's kind of like
different generations, different personalities, different ages. It makes the game more
interesting, but I don't think it's competition or anything of the. It's funny because
they call us veterans; only 27 years old (laughter). Compared with the kids, they are 16,
17, 18, so it's normal. But the game, it's good for the women's tennis that have all these
different kind of personalities. As long as I think the results is everything. It's nice
to be part of the game as long as I've been there. Keep winning now, try to win many more
tournaments also with the young ones. It's normal.

Q. Do you feel, say, now as opposed to ten years ago that there are more young players
dominating or do you think it's what you went through back when you were 16 or 17 years
old?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO: It's different. I mean, I think the game now is very powerful.
They're hitting the ball probably harder than ten years ago when I started. It was
different styles of game. But it was tough anyway, you know, ten years ago than it is
right now. You just have to keep in your best good shape, try to play good enough to
continue winning. It's kind of different winners all the time, so it makes more
interesting to see, you know, who is going to be there. But it is good for the game. As
long as you feel you can compete with them, it's fine.

Q. Is your game where you want it to be right now?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO: Yeah. I think it's better. After, you know, that I have my
injury last year, now it's coming back. I feel pretty strong. I have good season before I
came here. I'm looking forward to having a good US Open. 

Q. You may be one of the best runners in the game. Are you surprised that she tried to
dropshot you so much?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO: Well, she likes that shot. She did that; sometimes it work for
her. I was ready sometimes. She also win a couple points. I definitely, you know, was
focused on that. I'm quick enough to get there and win the point. But maybe, you know, it
works for her sometimes, so she likes that shot.

Q. How would you sum up her game? Do you think she's got a lot of potential?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO: She's young, she's hitting the ball very flat. She definitely
have a very good year. She did play really well at Wimbledon. Definitely, you know, they
are coming and doing really well. You have to play really well to beat her, but she's on
the way. 

Q. What do you think she might have learned out of the game today? Perhaps to be a bit
more patient?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO: It's hard for me to say what she thinks. Maybe you have to ask
her. I mean, you never know. Every match is different; every player is different. I was
very focused. It was sometimes kind of like to have a tougher match at the beginning,
because like this you are more concentrate, you're ready for the next one. Today, you
know, it was my turn. I played really well to beat her. Maybe, you know, she has more
chances to play more US Open. 

Q. As a 27-year-old veteran, what goals do you still have left?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO: Goals? 

Q. Yes, goals. 

ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO: I don't think you can look for goals. You just try to, you
know, be fit, try to be your best. Maybe the Grand Slams, the big ones, you looking more
for, you want to do well because they are the big ones. But definitely the ones you play
before is good preparation. Just obviously, you know, being your best and play as good as
you good. That's all. I don't think you put any more goals in that age. 

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT