COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
October 1, 1998
Arantxa Sanchez Vicario
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How tired are you feeling after all your travels and all your big matches you've played in recent weeks?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO:  I'm very tired right now.  I've been playing a lot lately.  After all the travel that I've been done, I was a little bit tired today, so I was a little bit slower.  I can show a little on the court.  I was not getting to the ball as fast as normally.  But I just think besides that I have a couple games that I could have won, you know, with my serve 40-15, also that went away.  But definitely, I mean, I think she play, you know, okay for herself.  But I think I make a lot of errors because probably I was not getting up to the ball as good.  I mean, I try my best, but probably I was a little bit slow.


Q. Somebody like Patrick Rafter has had just exhausting a schedule as you, and he decided it wasn't worth  making this trip.  Why to the top ladies players is it important to play in this tournament?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO:  Well, maybe for him it's not important because maybe he participate more times in this event.  For us, it's the first time it happen.  So the women, we are very excited to have this, you know, event.  Obviously, if you qualify, I think anyone would like to come here.  For myself, I know I was very tired, but I try my best, tried to play a good match.  You know, I play the best I can, come to this tournament to prepare for the next ones.  But I decided to come.


Q. Back in 1994, you played Venus Williams in Oakland, in California.  It was her first professional match.  It was a very tight match, apparently even then.  How have you noticed her game has changed or her attitude has changed in the last four years?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO:  I think she actually is playing pretty similar.  Nothing that she change particularly.  I just think that she hits the ball pretty hard.  If she's on top of the ball, she makes the winners. If you make her run, she makes the errors.  I just think that probably now she will have more experience, she's been a little more on the tour.  She won more matches, so she has more confidence.  But she's playing exactly the same as when I play her the first time.


Q. The overhead video showed on at least one, maybe two occasions, that the line decision might have been wrong.  The crowd reacted to that.  Is that a useful addition to tennis or is it a distraction?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO:  Well, sometimes you know that that can happen.  But, I mean, you cannot get really upset, otherwise it can be worse.  But obviously one ball can turn everything, when you think you won the point, and they give it to the other one.  Obviously, you have to be ready mentally.  I just think that it's hard to make those decisions.  But obviously, you know, it can affect a little bit.


Q. But do you think it's good for the public and possibly even the players afterwards to be able to see a replay so quickly, or do you think it would be best if you couldn't see it?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO:  I think it's better to have the replay so you can definitely see, you know, the point the way it is.  So I think it's a very good idea.  As it showed maybe two times the ball was in, but there's nothing I can do, I just have to keep playing. 


Q. Were you actually watching the video replay for yourself after the point up on the big screen above your head on those line calls?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO:  If I watch?


Q. Were you actually watching yourself the replay?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO:  No, no.  But I definitely saw enough when I hit the shot, so I didn't have to see it again.  I was very surprised that when I finish the point that he overrules, you know.  But I didn't need it.


Q. Just going back to how tired you said you were.  If this was a normal week, a routine tournament, as opposed to the first appearance in this tournament for women, would you have taken the week off?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO:  Well, I make a commitment to come, so I just think that I have to take it the way it is this year.  Maybe next time, you know, I will be able to see if I can have more time.  I just think that I know I didn't play as good, but at least I try my best.  Couldn't go my way.


Q. Can you talk us through your weekend?  When did you leave Tokyo and when did you get here?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO:  I left Monday so I get here Monday night. 


Q. And how long was the flight?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO:  13 hours.


Q. I'm working on a story about new rules in tennis. What do you think about maybe just one serve, the net a little bit higher, larger balls?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO:  What?


Q. Larger balls, bigger balls, just changing the game, what do you think about it?  Would you like it?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO:  I just think it's fine the way it is.


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT