US OPEN
September 9, 1998
Arantxa Sanchez Vicario
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. What swung the match from you dominating in the first set to her getting everything
her way the second and third sets? 
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO: Well, I think I play a very good first set. I was dominating
her, moving her around. So I think I surprise her, you know, a lot. Probably that kind of
way of playing, I'm not so much used to it, to play like that. But I guess I get probably,
you know, maybe a little bit tired in the second set. I continued to force, but I started
missing. She started playing, you know, pretty well. I mean, the games were very close,
even 1 and 1. But probably she started, you know, playing much more aggressive. She
started attacking, you know, pretty well. It makes the difference. But I tried to hang
into the match. I have some chances to break back. Maybe if I will take that, it will be
change. But she probably attack before me. I didn't. She won the match. But I think it was
very close, more than the result says. 
 
Q. How much improvement do you notice that she's made in the last year?
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO: Well, I think that she's playing probably the same as last
year. I mean, she's a player that hits the ball really hard. Probably she did, you know,
take the ball before me to attack. She went more for the shots and she started winning
more points. But I think she's playing the same as last year. 
 
Q. There seemed to be several questionable calls. Did that take the wind out of you
any?
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO: Obviously, when there is some close calls, I mean, it's always
hard, you know, because you don't know. I mean, it's so close. I think even, you know, I
just try to stay focused and not think about it. Obviously, like I say, you know, I'm not
so much -- the intensity of play in the first set for me, I mean, I didn't do it in the
second set, and in the third set it was kind of close again. But I think I play a great
match and I give my best. But she's the player that, you know, anticipates the ball, and
she attack better in the third set. At the end, you know, she won. But I'm probably happy
the way I play. You know, having a good tournament. Probably, you know, try next time. 
 
Q. She plays Lindsay Davenport next. How would you assess that match-up, Venus Williams
against Lindsay Davenport?
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO: I think they have very similar game. I mean they both hit
pretty hard. It's going to be a very interesting match. 
 
Q. After the French Open, I think you had a thing on the court with her. You said she
doesn't really show a lot of respect. Do you still feel that way about her?
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO: That's already past. I mean, I'm not going to talk about it
anymore. 
 
Q. Do you think she's going to win this whole thing?
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO: You're the guys who pronounce who is going to win. I don't
have to answer that. 
 
Q. It looked like tonight a couple times she put out her arm for sort of the in call.
How did you react to that?
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO: I mean, I didn't look at that. I mean, I just try to stay into
the match, to continue. You know, even the games were very close. I could have some
chances. Maybe if I would be 3-2 in the third set, things would be different. But I didn't
look about that at all. I mean, maybe -- I didn't pay attention on that at all. 
 
Q. Obviously the teenagers in the game, in the women's game, have been getting a great
deal of attention recently. Of course, you and Jana won the last two Slams. Would you
prefer to see Jana or Lindsay pull it out? Do you have any possible feeling about that?
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO: Well, if I tell you the truth, now that I'm not in the
tournament, you know, anyone can win. I just wish the best of luck with everyone and see
who will win. Doesn't matter for me (laughter). 
 
Q. A couple of times, you started to go in, then you stopped in the middle and
retreated. Didn't have confidence to go in?
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO: I mean, from one end of the court was easier because you have
the wind. Against the wind is much more difficult, because if you don't go in fast, I
mean, it is ball stops, have more chance to pass you. But, I mean, probably I try to do a
couple times, and it work out pretty well. But maybe I also miss a few. With the wind, is
hard. I start doing that again on the third set. You know, probably I should have done
that a little bit more, but it's not easy anyway. You have to play a good approach.  
 
Q. Were you bothered by the weather?
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO: Sorry. 
 
Q. The weather.
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO: Well, it change. It's not as warm as it was. I mean, you have
to get ready with the conditions. I just try to be focused. But it was a little bit, you
know, windy on the court, a little bit cold. But I was ready. I mean, didn't affect too
much. I mean, we were both ready for the match. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT