US OPEN
September 7, 1998
Arantxa Sanchez Vicario
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Was it easier or harder than you expected?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Well, I think I played pretty well, pretty consistent. I did
move the ball pretty well. I mean, the last times I play her, you know, I lost. So I came,
you know, very positive today, try to be the one who was able to hit the ball first and to
be able to attack and moving her around. I did pretty good. I think that I lost my serve,
you know, in the very important moment, but I was be able to stay and go into the tiebreak
and play pretty good, you know, points. After that, I continue playing pretty aggressive.
Obviously, she's a player that if you give her a chance, she can come back. But I think I
didn't let her come into the match so much. I did play great, very consistent, good
tennis. So it's a very good win. Obviously, after winning the first set, that give me a
lot of confidence to play even better the second one and finish up in straight sets.

Q. Outside of a revenge factor, is there anything when you go up against these
so-called young guns, take one of them out, still proving that someone with your
experience might still be better than they are?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: No, I don't think I have to prove anything. I don't take it as
a revenge at all. I mean, I think each match is different. Probably, you know, my
motivation probably is the Grand Slams. That's where I'm looking for to play good. You
know, the other matches, probably I was the one who lost those matches, so I know what
went wrong. I try not to do it this time. But it's nothing personal. I think that
obviously, you know, probably is no pressure for me at all because I can go and play my
tennis. I'm just going there to do well, to try to win the match. Probably now I love to
play on Stadium 3; I play all my matches there. So maybe now it will be the first time I
will be able to play in Stadium 1. Obviously, it is not the first time I play this
tournament. I mean, probably experience I have enough. But I have to play and play well
enough to win these players, because they are very good, you know. But obviously, it gives
me a lot of confidence and it's a great win for me today.

Q. You won here in '94. Was there a certain feeling when you made your run through that
tournament, and is it here now?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Well, I'm probably in the same situation. I mean, I was not
the favorite to win '94. I mean, I sneak around and do well. Obviously, I won in a very
tough match in the final. I think I'm a better player now -- right now than I was in '94.
I have much more experience. I improve on my game, I'm a better player. It's a lot of
different situations. Plus, it's still the same, I don't have the pressure at all. I mean,
I'm not the favorite, so I -- that can help me to go through, you know, and play my games
and my tennis, concentrate and keep winning. But obviously, I'm doing very well. I'm happy
the way things are going, the way I play. I'm just going to continue.

Q. It's a comfortable place for you to be in, not being the favorite?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: I think I have been in that situation before. I mean, so
sometimes it helps, definitely. It shows that the results says everything. I'm still
there, you know. I'm playing and winning good matches. Obviously, I'm still into the
tournament. So far, so good. I just have to keep concentrate. I'm trying to be very
focused on each match.

Q. After your visit to Shea Stadium the other night, we know what a big baseball fan
you are. Did you get a chance to watch McGwire play today and if you have any thoughts
about him tying the record?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: I saw him because of the rain delay. I was be able to watch it
on TV in the locker room. I think it's unbelievable. I mean, he's a great player. I mean,
that's something very difficult to do, and it's something unbelievable he's been done. So
I was very surprised that, you know, he was be able to do it again. But, you know, I'm
just congratulate him and hopefully now he's tight and he have more games to go, maybe he
can make the record. But I think it's great for him.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT