US OPEN
September 3, 1998
Arantxa Sanchez Vicario
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Can you talk about the match?   Are you playing well right now?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Yeah, I feel pretty comfortable on the court.  I had good preparation before I come here.  Obviously, first match is probably the toughest one, but I feel pretty good on the court today.


Q.  You look at the French Open victory, can you still carry something from that?   What did that do for your confidence for this year?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, obviously, when you win a Grand Slam that gives you a lot of confidence, and I played very well there.  It was a great two weeks and for my game it was, you know, really, very good.  So I just keep working, and now that it is already past a little bit, and I am just concentrating about this one and looking forward to play match as good and getting better each time.


Q.  Given Steffi back, being healthy, Monica being here, is this the toughest field of women's players that you have experienced in a tournament?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  It is nice to see everybody back and it makes more -- very interesting, the draw, and everybody is playing really well.  Each one of the different players win different tournaments, so it makes more excitement for women's tennis.  I think that everybody is in very good shape and that is the most important.  I think it is good for women's tennis.


Q.  Is it much harder now for a surprise player to come out of the field and possibly go very far because there is so much quality at the top levels in the women's game?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, I mean, right now, you don't have an easy match like you used to have like a couple of years ago.  Now you have to play well at the beginning of the match and you still have to do well if you want to still stay in the tournament.  So think it is better.  The more competition the better, and I like that situation.  Obviously, you have to play very well each match.


Q.  Did you feel that -- people I think sort of were looking at you as maybe your career had peaked and you had not won for a while right before the French Open.  Did you feel that any people were thinking that  maybe your better days were over?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  They can say, you know, or they can, you know, write whatever they want. But the results is what says everything.  What they -- what they mean important is winning Grand Slams; that is what I haven't done.  That is what I am looking for right now.  I don't have to prove anything else.  I just try to enjoy myself on the court much more.  I feel more comfortable with my game and I try to improve each day. Obviously I am just concentrated to the big one and -- big ones like this one and try to do my best.  The more I get the better it is, but winning the French, I mean, probably was really well for me.


Q.  Did you ever start to doubt your own ability to win again or win a major?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  No, because any athletes always have some up and downs.  The twelve years I always been in the top so one year I can have lie down and that happened to me and to each one.  But I always think that if you do the right things sooner or later it will come back.  I did the right thing working hard again and now the results are coming back.


Q.  You are on the way up again?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  You can say so.


Q.  I mean, do you feel that way?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Yeah.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT