CHASE CHAMPIONSHIPS OF THE COREL WTA TOUR
November 19, 1997
Arantxa Sanchez Vicario
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Arantxa, brought back some happy memories a match like that coming back, all you're old defensive skills?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: I think this is the last tournament of the year and the best 16 players are playing here, so you're going to have tough matches in the beginning. And I just think that the end of the year, I'm playing better. And last week helped me a lot playing a lot of matches.  And today, you know, it was very important to give my best and try to be aggressive.  And definitely it is a very good win and I'm very happy with, you know, at the end, you know, the third set.


Q.  Does it feel like this was the best you played in a long time, especially in the second set when you turned it around?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Well, I think last week I played pretty good.  And my game, you know, start getting, you know, better.  And I'm very happy because, you know, I come back with the set and 4-1 down against a player who is, you know, very tough on this surface.  Obviously, I think it was -- you know, I have to run a lot and I try to, you know, come back playing, you know, point by point and still, you know, try to get a little bit aggressive and, you know, moving more around and I start coming back.  And then, you know, at the end, you know, I was ahead. And finally, you know, I was be able to finish it up.  But I think it gives me confidence and it's a very good win.


Q.  Arantxa, Monica said that perhaps the difference between Monica now and Monica in 1993 was that she doesn't quite play the key points as well.  Did you see other differences, perhaps?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Well, I think -- I mean, she was playing, I think, very well.  And, I mean, she was set on 4-1 and she was, you know, playing very good shot.  So, I think, you know, against her, you have to try to be a little more aggressive before her to be able to make her be on the run.  And that's why she makes more mistakes.  And it took me a while because she was hitting very well.  And, finally, I would be able to be controlled the point before her and that's when I start coming back.  But I think it was a great match and, you know, my point -- one point she could have won, and then I come back and she start coming back again.  So, matter of fact, I started probably the last game taking a little more control on her and I was able to win. 


Q.  Arantxa, with Seles now out of the tournament, there stands to be a new champion here.  Do you think that indicates a changing of the guard is happening, if you like, with tennis, a new generation is coming forth and making a mark?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Well, I think the game is improved a lot.  And, you know, it's a lot of players with -- you know, playing very well at the moment.  And, you know, you have to play each match.  And it's more difficult, much more competition.  And I think here, you know, just thinking, you know, one at a time and trying to, you know, play your best and, you know, keep winning.  So, you know, obviously when you keep winning, more difficult is going to be anyway also.  And I think the game is -- the more players the better.  I think it's better for the game.  And, you know, probably couple years ago a few names, but now it's changing and, you know, there's more players.  So it's much more competition, and I think it's good for the game.


Q.  How do you like your chances to go further after this win under your belt?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Well, one is, you know, gone and I'm just thinking about, you know, next round and trying to, you know, play with the same confidence and, you know, try to play, you know, my best and, you know, go one at a time and see what happens.  That's what I'm thinking right now.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT