US OPEN
September 3, 1997
Arantxa Sanchez Vicario
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Arantxa, what is it like playing against your doubles partner? Obviously you know
Martina's game pretty well. Does that help at all? 
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Well, I think has nothing to do. We know each other very well,
even before we been doubles partners, so it is happening many times that you play, you
know, your doubles partner and it is happening before also this morning with the other
quarterfinals match. So you just put everything, you know, away and try to play your own
game and don't think that it is your partner. 
 
Q. Arantxa, you had a look on your face as though you were feeling, "Nobody can
beat this person." Is that an accurate reflection of how you feel, and can anybody
beat Martina Hingis right now?
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Well, I cannot see my face. I am just playing, so I don't
know. But, I mean, you have to play very well to beat her, that is for sure and she is --
was not probably so much consistent. I was playing a couple of points good, couple not,
and she came with good shots. She has a lot of confidence and that is why she is doing so
well. Everything is on for her, is working really well. But I think that anyone who plays
well, who takes the chances, has a chance to beat her, because you just have to play well,
good enough to beat her. 
 
Q. Is it a helpless feeling though sometimes because it seems as though whatever you do
she gets it back, or she makes the winning shot?
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Well, I mean, like I say, when you are No. 1 and everything
is, you know, working for you, you just have to try to keep going and see if maybe she
will miss. But, like I say, every time she hits a shot, she makes it right on the line or
makes unbelievable shot when she needs it, that is why she is No. 1. Everything is working
very well for her. You know you have to go more for the shots and sometimes you take the
risk, but that is the way you have to play against her. 
 
Q. Arantxa, this is the last Slam of the year obviously. How would you assess your
year?
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Well, I am happy with the way I played this tournament. In the
beginning of the year I didn't do so well. But, coming here I was feeling better. And,
obviously, I lost to the best player in the world, so, I am feeling that my game is
getting better and, you know, I have a couple of more tournaments until the end of the
year. I am feeling that I have done well enough in the Grand Slams and that is where it
count for me. Those are the bigger ones and I think I did pretty well. Just losing to the
No. 1 player in the world. 
 
Q. Has something been missing from your game? Obviously you haven't won as many titles
this year as in the past. Is there anything that isn't clicking; that isn't going right
that maybe did in the past?
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: No, I mean, I just think that sometimes things are not going
as well as you want to, but you just have to keep going. I know that everything is
different right now and I am just trying to keep enjoying myself, trying to improve and
try to keep winning, that is all. 
 
Q. What do you think the chances are of Martina losing to either Lindsay Davenport or
Spirlea or Venus Williams in her next two matches?
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Well, I think Lindsay is the only player who beat Martina on
hard court this year and I mean, she has a very powerful game and she is playing at home,
so, for sure, she will have the crowd helping her to play Martina. Obviously, on the
bottom, is two players that probably is the first time they reached the semis of a Grand
Slam, but they are there because they are doing well and, you know, they are playing very
well also. So, we will see. I think that who is going to get to the final, but probably,
you know, it is going to be very, very good matches and who will play more aggressive is
going to be the one who will win. We will see. I think it will be a very interesting match
against Lindsay and Martina. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT