US OPEN
September 1, 1997
Arantxa Sanchez Vicario
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Arantxa, how are you playing? What do you feel the level of your game is right now?
Are you getting close to a hundred percent of where you want to be?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Well, I'm feeling good. I mean, I've been playing better each
match here. Today I feel much more comfortable. Not making so many mistakes, going for the
shots. I was very comfortable, so I'm happy the way things are going for me.

Q. Now, today's match, you're facing a completely different opponent in Hingis. You've
played her before; you played doubles together. What are you going to have to do different
this time to be able to beat her?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: I don't have to do anything different. I just have to play my
own game. I mean, she's the one who has all the pressure. I just think that I will go
there and be very concentrate each point. Try to be aggressive when I have the chance.
Just play the way consistently as I've been doing in the past matches; just play my own
game. Not because she's the No. 1 or it's Martina Hingis, I'm going to play differently. I
think that she is the one who has probably much more pressure than me. That can help me a
lot.

Q. So it's about execution then, hitting the shots when you have the big points? You
have to execute well?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: It's the way of playing each point. That's what I say since
the beginning. Just, you know, it's a long way since the beginning till the end. You know,
a lot of things can happen. But like I say, be focus and concentrate each point.

Q. What are the biggest challenges in her game? What does she do best that makes her
such a difficult opponent?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Well, she has very good anticipation, and that's what makes
her, you know, be always in the position. I will try to, you know, move her around so
she's not as much in the position. Maybe she will make many more mistakes that way.

Q. In your opinion, how are you playing now compared to how you played here in '94?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: You cannot compare. I mean, it's three years different. I'm
feeling, you know, good. That's what I'm thinking right now. I'm not going to compare
myself three years ago to now.

Q. Arantxa, what is the thing you like most about tennis and what's the thing you don't
like so much?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Well, I love tennis. I mean, I enjoy myself on the court. I
think that tennis gives me a lot. And I still enjoy myself on the court. That's why I keep
playing. I been there for so many years. I I've been every time doing very well. Just, you
know, want to continue doing well and have as much fun as I can.

Q. Is there anything about life as a touring professional that you don't like so much?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Well, I think that each time, you know, you have to travel
much more. You cannot stay so much at home. But that's something that you know is going to
happen. I mean, I been 12 years already playing professional. I think is long enough. But
probably, you know, take a little more time at home. But at the same time, you know, just
concentrate even more for the tournaments. That's it.

Q. Why don't you want to compare yourself to '94? I would think you would have fond
memories of your tournament and how you played, you would use it to gauge your progress.

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Well, because, I mean, I won in 1994. It's three years
different. I think that it's complete different year this year than three years ago. I'm
just, you know, this is 1997, you know, US Open. That's why I say that. I'm just
concentrate right now. Everything that I done is there, it's great. I have always good
memories. I always playing well here. But, you know, this is this year. And that's why I
say I don't want to compare. Nothing wrong or anything. I just think that what is done is
done, but life is continue. I'm just thinking about 1997.

Q. Like at the French you'll again be facing your doubles partner. Can that help you in
any way, do you think?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: No. I mean, I don't think. It's been happening many times that
I have to play my opponent, my doubles partner. I think she knows my game; I know her
game. I think that it's completely different. I mean, tomorrow, this afternoon, tonight,
we'll be partners, on the same side of the court, tomorrow we'll be across the net. I
think is just another match. It's always great to face, you know, the No. 1 player in the
world. I mean, you always have a challenge because you want to do well. If you win, that
would be even, you know, big win. If not, then you know I'm going to go there and give my
best and see what happens. It's like another player.

Q. Arantxa, have you and Martina ever discussed it? I know you guys are pretty good
friends. Have you ever discussed your singles matches after the match at any time? Have
you guys ever sat down and said, "Boy, you hit that great shot at this moment.
Arantxa, your backhand was working well today"?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Well, we trying to always in doubles communicate a lot. I
mean, if she makes a good shot, I tell her. If I make one, she tells me. But I think we
compliment well. It's always nice, if we both hit a good win, that the other one say
something. But just sometimes depending on the occasion. I think that it's different. When
you play singles, it's yourself. There we both try to good things for her, do things for
me, be as good a team as we can. But we don't discuss so much about it.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT