US OPEN
August 28, 1997
Arantxa Sanchez Vicario
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. How much did the rain delay affect you? 
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: I think it's been a very long day. You expected to play first
match. You come here, you know, like very early to warm up and get ready. I guess it
affects to everybody, because you have to hanging around. You warm you, you know, you
going to play, it suddenly starts raining again. You have to keep a long wait. But I think
that affects to all of us. I was just trying to, you know, be patient and wait until I
have, you know, the opportunity to play and go to the court, try to be as fast as I can,
you know, try to win the match. That's it. But it was a long wait. 
 
Q. You've never played her. Did you know anything about her?
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Well, I've never play her. But, I mean, I know she won the US
Open Juniors, I guess, and that's all I know about her. I think she likes to play on
hardcourts. She plays very flat. But, you know, she takes a lot of risk. When she's in
good form, she can make a good shot. So I just shot and knew that I had to move the ball,
not let her get into the match. That's what I did at the beginning of the first set. I was
in control. Then I guess I played too short. She attacked well. She take control of the
second set. I start being more aggressive, serving better in the third set, don't let her
get too much into the match. But I should not wait too long, so long, three sets. But I
guess that final thing is that I concentrate well the third set and I won the match. 
 
Q. Arantxa, as you're getting older, not old, but getting older, is your dedication to
tennis or your feeling about tennis changing at all?
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Well, first of all, I'm not that old. I'm 25. I've been for 12
years on The Tour, so it looks like I'm old. I don't feel it. No, I still have the same
motivation, I still enjoy myself playing. If I would not feel that way, I would not still
play. I still enjoy play, you know, and the game, I have passion for tennis, I still have
fun. I mean, I don't have to prove anything. I just want to, you know, keep playing and do
my best and win as much as I can. That's it. But I still, you know, have motivation, yes. 
 
Q. Being No. 10 in the world, do you feel any special motivation or pressure to get
back up in the Top 3 in the ranking?
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: No. I don't feel any pressure at all. 
 
Q. Is it a goal?
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: I just think the pressure is for the other players, they have
to prove to be there as long terms as I was there. So I don't have to be thinking about
that. I'm just trying to, you know, play well and try to, you know, play good, you know,
play my game. Then if I do the right things, I will come up again in the rankings. As
anybody, any athlete, No. 1 player, drop sometimes. But I'm looking forward to come back,
slowly move up and try to win again. 
 
Q. Did the couple years when Monica was out of tennis and Steffi was injured and you
were playing so much, you sort of were the backbone of the women's tennis Tour there for
some time. Did that take a lot out of you at all?
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: No. I think I become, you know, No. 1 because I think, you
know, I play well and I win a couple Grand Slams that year, and I won more tournaments. No
one give me anything, you know, for free to get there. I just think I work hard to be
there. I been there. I know what it is to be there. I just think that I been pretty
consistent. Ten years there is not bad at all, if many more players do that. I'm just
thinking now try to move slowly but not -- don't put any pressure on myself; just try to
improve and keep moving up, if I can. Why not, you know, move up and see if I can get
again, fight for the first spot with other players? 
 
Q. I was told during the rain delay, you were playing tic-tac-toe with Sampras?
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: What? 
 
Q. Somebody said you were playing tic-tac-toe with Sampras during the rain delay?
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: No. 
 
Q. What did you do during the rain delay to kill time?
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Read, listen to music, just be patient. I warm up a little bit
before the rain, then I have to wait again until they dry the court. But basically be very
patient, focus. It's always good to play the first match because you know you going to go
on. It was late, but I'm glad that the day ending well and I'm able to go home happy. 
 
Q. Did you bring a good book? 
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Yeah. Actually I finish it. I need another one. Hopefully
doesn't rain more, otherwise I have to buy another one. But it was very entertaining book,
yeah. 
 
Q. I guess you've gone through a lot of times with rain delays. How do you stay
motivated where you have to wait around for so many hours before you play?
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Like I say, I try to be patient. Really listen to music relax
me, so I don't have to be moving around. I just sit in there, in the locker room, be calm,
just waiting. I eat something to get ready for the match. Especially, you know, I did warm
up a little bit, moving up, so I don't get stop all the time, just be very, very patient.
I mean, you know it can be a very long day, but I try not to, you know, hurry myself or
try to, you know -- I just trying to be calm. 
 
Q. Are you disappointed with your results this year when you look back over the year as
a whole?
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Well, I'm not too happy the way that I started the year. But,
you know, like I say, I know I didn't start well. I don't have to defend anything, so now
I'm just trying to play well and, you know, win each match. I don't have any pressure, you
know, at all. I just want to, you know, try to win more matches as I can, and then try to
win, you know, the tournament, and that's it. But definitely I look forward to the chance
to get better results since I have at the beginning of the year. 
 
Q. Do you feel your game has gone down a level? You're down in rankings.
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: I don't think it went down. I think if you don't win enough,
the other players win more than myself, they win a couple of tournaments, that's why they
move up. I just think depending on my result action, I just think I done well in the Grand
Slams, but I didn't done very well enough in the other tournaments to win and to get far.
So I didn't get enough points. And that's why, you know, I drop a little bit. But, like I
say, I have nothing to defend from now until the French next year. So if I work well, I'm
looking forward to get through that, finally win once and then everything will change. 
 
Q. Do you think there's any particular reason why you didn't win as much this year,
last year, as you had in the past?
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: No. I just think that, you know, I'm a human being. I just
think that I play a lot for the last couple years more than anyone. Maybe I was a little
bit, you know, tired. That's why, you know, I played less in the beginning of the year.
Plus I didn't win the matches I was supposed to win in three sets, I lost them. That makes
a difference. If I win those matches, then it would be different and I would not be in
this position. 
 
Q. Do you think that it's going to turn around now?
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Well, like I say, Grand Slams, I always done well. That's the
key, to always do well. For me the Grand Slams are the much more important. I always have
great results. So that's what it's all about. If I win other tournaments, I do well, it's
even better. I've been very consistent in the Grand Slams. Hopefully, you know, this one I
can keep going the same. 
 
Q. Do you have a different exercise routine, Arantxa? You look thinner, in good shape.
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: I lost weight, yeah. But I think I feel fitter and I feel
better. 
 
Q. Are you doing anything differently?
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Probably the older you get, you control more your body and
yourself. But I feel better. I work hard. That's why it probably shows now that I'm
thinner. 
 
Q. Are you working with a new sports doctor, Miguel? 
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Who? 
 
Q. You've been working with a gentleman who trains, Miguel Induran?
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: That's my doctor also. I mean, I will work with him already
for a year and a half, so it's not something new. He's always been the guy who take care
of me, always trying to see that I can be very fit. He's one of the best. It's always nice
to have the good people that you can trust and they're on your side. 
 
Q. Do you think the level of the Tour has gone up over the last year or two since you
were No. 1 or the year you won two Grand Slams? Is The Tour getting better as a whole?
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Well, I think that it's much more power, you know. Before they
were kind of different styles of game. They always the same people around. Now there is
new players and they hit the ball harder and more flat, so you can see that. Different
generation, so it makes it more interesting, The Tour. But I think it's good for the game.
The more, the better. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT