CHASE CHAMPIONSHIPS OF THE COREL WTA TOUR
November 22, 1996
Arantxa Sanchez Vicario
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Arantxa how disappointing is this, to lose like this today?  Can you talk about your disappointment of losing?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, I think normally when you lose a match you have disappointment, but I think what happened today is that she played better than me, and that's how the match went. 
 

Q.  Did you ever see her play better?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  No, I think that a long time I didn't see her play as good as today.  Everything worked out really well for her, and nothing was working for me today.  But she played better.  And when that's happening, it's hard to win a match.  And she was playing very well today. 
 

Q.  Now that the year is over, can you kind of just recap the year?  How satisfied you are with your year, what you'd like to improve on?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, I think I'm very happy with the year I had, even that I won two tournaments.  I play  six finals and I get another two finals in the Grand Slams and I have a chance to win most of them.  I think that I was very consistent and I feel that I have a very good year.  And I just think that this is just going to keep going, and I'm looking forward to seeing next year if I can win at least one Grand Slam, what I was looking for. 
 

Q.  Arantxa, they've announced this new ranking structure.  You more than anybody has gotten sort of, I guess, nailed by all the different rankings over the last couple of years, being co-ranked and the ranking dropped when you didn't play.  What do you think of that and is women's tennis in a little bit of trouble with what's going on?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, I think what is important is that what they need to do is change.  And probably I think it's good, at least they're trying their best to change things.  And I just think that -- I mean for me it's been -- I have -- Monica has been ranked No. 1 with Steffi for a time, and now she's No. 2 with me.  And now I think that is not possible, that has to finish and has to be, you know, I think probably like they're going to try to do now, point system and probably will be better for everybody.  At least they're trying their best to change things. 
 

Q.  Did you feel that you had a chance in the second set when you had gone through 3-all.  Do you think you still had a chance to turn this around at that point? 
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, I think in the first set it was very hard because I don't have many chances, I think.  She was really doing very well.  And the second set there were some points that maybe I have some, you know, but I mean if I would have taken one it would be different, but I guess I did not play very good those points and she came, you know, with the good shots.  And I think she serve really well today also and help her to win more of those points when she need it.  But I guess today was not my day.  But I have to agree that she did play very well today. 
 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, it's been a long time, I don't know.  I don't know how many points I won in the set, but I think I know I make a lot of unforced errors today that was probably I guess she pressured pretty good and I just tried to see if I could make a couple in to try to get into the match but nothing work out for me. 
 

Q.  The lack of match play in the last month, did that cost you?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  No, I don't think so.  I think that -- I did have a good warm up when I played Schultz. It was a different match than today.  But I think that I take that decision, and that has nothing to do with today I think. 
 

Q.  If Jana plays as well as she did today do you think she has a chance to win? 
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  If she does play like today, yes, definitely.  If she doesn't miss any shot and everything work on her side, yeah, she can be dangerous, especially in this surface, that's where she likes. 
 

Q.  There were a couple of questionable calls, did that affect you at all in the second set?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, I think it was very clear that I make an ace, and that was a very important point, so it turns everything around.  And it's always very close calls.  And I just try not to think too much about it, but sometimes you think you won the point and you have to start all over again.  And you have to keep going.  But I guess there were some bad calls, I think, but that was not an excuse either why I lost the match.  It could have gone better for me, but I think she did play better, and that's why she won today. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT