CHASE CHAMPIONSHIPS OF THE COREL WTA TOUR
November 20, 1996
Arantxa Sanchez Vicario
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Arantxa, is she the biggest server in the game today, on the women's side?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Yes, definitely.  I think that we all know that she has the biggest serve and the fastest serve in women's tennis.  And I think that I knew that since the beginning, I thought that she can serve as many aces as she can.  And I just have to be patient and just keep serving well with my serve and stay in the match.  And I think I keep it up really well, but definitely when she serves well she can make a couple of games, like it happened today, like she made four aces.  And I think definitely she's the fastest server in the women's tennis. 
 

Q.  When you come to a tiebreaker with a server like that, what's your attitude, usually in the tiebreaker the big server has the advantage?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  I think I was returning pretty well the whole match, when I tried to put the ball  back.  And I was ready to hit the good points, I have more chance.  And I have many break in the first point, making good returns, so that gives you more confidence to keep going.  And you know that if you take one of those chances you can steal the match.  And I was just thinking to make good returns and play my own game and concentrate with my game and just be tough mentally to be there, because the points could go short, could go longer, but it was a different kind of game today. 
 

Q.  Arantxa, when you played the first round of a tournament you don't normally meet somebody to play of this caliber, is that tough to deal with?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Yeah, definitely.  I think any player who comes to this tournament is tough in the first round.  But especially me that I didn't play any tournament before and have to play Brenda, a big serve, in the beginning, it was a tough match.  And I think that mentally I was ready to be there and to be concentrated with my serve and be able to make good returns, like I did.  But definitely for the first match it was very tough to play against her. 
 

Q.  How concerned were you when you looked back at the last couple of years over here the result that you've had?  To come up against someone like Schultz the first round in the last couple of years?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, I think that the last year I think that I always play pretty good here.  I mean last  year I probably didn't play very good the first match but Natasha did very well and beat me, so she played better.  When that happens, you know, you don't play well, you have more chances to lose.  But I think for me it's passed.  And I think that I learned that I came more prepared this year, even though I didn't play a tournament before, I practiced hard and came fresh, and that was something that was very important for me. I look at this year with a lot of positive in a way and trying to pass the first round and just being into the tournament. 
 

Q.  Arantxa, when you played in Germany a couple of weeks ago, you said afterwards you were fed up with tennis at that time, how are you now towards playing tennis?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, it's completely different.  I took 20 days off, and I didn't play, I didn't touch the racket.  And that's what I needed.  And now I'm fresh.  It's completely different.  And sometimes you need to do that.  And I was very happy that I do that and now I'm coming like with new batteries and I feel much better, completely different but when I was in Germany the last tournament than I am now.  My body is feeling much, much better and also mentally I'm more fresh and my game is improved.  So I feel more happier to go back again to the court and play again. 
 

Q.  It's fun again?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Yeah, definitely, yeah.  
 

Q.  We've had Monica, Steffi and Conchita, all in here saying this season -- there should be a longer break, it increases the risk of injury to players, what's your view on that?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, I wish that the Australian Open would be in February, then you can have two months mostly.  But that's just not happening.  I think that probably it's true that we don't have so much time off because there are so many tournaments and you have to play most of them.  But I think that still you can accommodate the schedule pretty good and have a little bit more time off.  But it would not be a bad idea if we have an extra month. 
 

Q.  How many months would you like off?  Conchita was saying that she'd like three months off?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  No, I think three is too much.  I think two is enough.  Two would be probably better than one, than we have in December.  But three I think, for me, it would be too long.  I get crazy.  But two would be great. 
 

Q.  Arantxa, of the four players you're the only one that seems to be healthy or totally healthy, is that a coincidence or are you doing something different or special?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  No, I think that I just work out hard and I take care of my body really well.  I probably came physically -- my family is pretty strong so I'm pretty healthy.  But I don't think it's a coincidence, I work hard to  be in the position I'm in right now and I keep going like this, so I don't get any injuries (indicating), but it's nice to see that I can go and have a tough year and keep going and be healthy. 
 

Q.  When you just said that for 20 days you didn't pick up a racket, literally you didn't pick it up?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  No.  I didn't run, I didn't do any sport.  I just lay on the beach and do nothing. 
 

Q.  Then what did you do to stay in shape and when did you pick up the racket again?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, I did take a break in October, so the last two weeks before I came here is when I start practicing hard, physically, in tennis.  So probably was the end of October, maybe -- middle of October through the end of October is when I take off.  And like I say, I was just relaxing.  I do water ski, jet ski and have fun with my friends but don't pick my racket or thinking about tennis.  I don't even read the paper or the sports paper or anything, just the news and I didn't know what was going on on the other tournaments when the other players play.  But it was nice, you need a break and to get away, and like I say I come back fresh, and that's what I needed.  For three and a half months I was very stressed.  I play a lot and I thought that was best to take a break. 
 

Q.  Did you spend all that time in Spain? 
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, not in Barcelona, I went to an isle where the weather is well and I stayed there. 
 

Q.  Were the 20 days planned or did they just sort of happen?  Did you say I'm not going to pick up a racket until I want to or did you say these three weeks --
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  I planned to have 20 days to do nothing. 
 

Q.  It was good for any player to have their own off season, do you organize that by yourself, do you think it's a good way to survive?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Yeah, I think that -- better than you, nobody knows better than you when you need a break, so I think that -- I mean you have to do that, but also in the right moments. 
 

Q.  Any farewell message to Gaby and Kimiko?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, I just -- I wish them the best, what they're deciding and hopefully they can continue having fun, what they're deciding to do.  And you know I'll miss both of them, because I always played great matches against both.  But it's a new life that they're going to start.  And that's going to happen to everybody, so I'm just wishing them the best. 
 

Q.  Arantxa, Steffi said that she sometimes think about retiring, maybe, just sometimes, but do you ever think of retiring? 
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, I didn't think that many times.  I just know that one thing for sure is that when I don't feel happy and I do not enjoy myself on the court is when I'll stop playing.  I don't know what age that will come, but I mean sometimes you just need to have also the break and I've been playing a lot many years like Steffi, so sometimes you're feeling like you want to stop.  And another way you keep enjoying yourself playing, so that's why you continue.  But it didn't happen to me many times in my head.  When I not enjoy it that's when I'll stop. 
 

Q.  When are your plans for playing doubles next season, will you be playing with Jana?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  No, I will not be playing with Jana, this will be our last tournament. And I will start playing next year with Gigi Fernandez. 
 

Q.  Can you explain why you're stopping with Jana?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, because we don't have the same schedule and she's not going to play Australian Open and probably other tournaments.  I think she just wants to concentrate for singles.  And we don't have the same schedule. So when that is happening it's hard to play each other and that's all. 
 

Q.  Between the two of you, did you approach Gigi or did she approach you?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  She approached me. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT