U.S. OPEN
September 2, 1996
Arantxa Sanchez Vicario
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Arantxa, what do you think about instant replay for the line calls?
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: What do I think about what? 
 
Q. Would you like instant replay on the line calls rather than the umpire overruling?
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Well, I mean, I think -- they doing their job, they have
linesmen, they call, they see it better. You just have to go with the calls. I mean, you
know always is happening that there's been some bad calls. The umpire maybe overrules. I
think that has been very close calls for either her or me. We both just waiting because it
was very late calls. I think you know that's going to happen. Something that just has to
continue. Normally if they're there, they can see better than the umpire. I guess the
umpire also is trying to see it clear, you know. Nothing you can do. I think they have to
go with the call that the linesmen saying first. 
 
Q. What type of pressure, if any, is it different playing somebody young like that who
you know is trying to challenge you and Steffi? What's the feel? Is it in any sort
different pressure?
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: No. I mean, it's like playing another player. 
 
Q. Is it really?
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: I didn't feel any pressure because I played at 15 years old. I
just know that it's getting -- the farther you get into a tournament, the tougher matches
you going to have. It was going to be a difficult match. I didn't put any extra pressure
on myself or any different pressure playing at all. 
 
Q. Did it surprise you that a 15 year old who appeared -- it appeared that she was
falling apart in the second set, got flustered, throwing racquets, did it surprise you she
was able to compose herself and come back and play so strongly in the third set?
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: I think she's a very, you know, talented player. She has very
good hands. I mean, first set I was not on the court at all. I think she did play well,
but I was missing out the balls. I come back playing better. I do think that I have my
chances in the third set. I do let her come back. That was a mistake for myself. I mean,
I'm a little bit disappointed with myself because of that reason, because I let her, you
know, get back. I do have my chances to close it out and I didn't do it. Not because I
lost. I mean, I would have preferred to win. Under those circumstances, I do have to feel
a little disappointed with myself because I know that I have my chances. 
 
Q. The last time you played, you lost the first set 6-Love, but then won the next two.
What was different this time? Did she play in any way different?
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Well, we play on clay the first time, so it was much slower,
the points were longer. I mean, first set she played really well, and I come back and
winning very easy the second and third set. Now we play on hardcourt again. I mean, I lost
the first set again, you know, come back and almost win the match. Last time I closed it
up. I was winning also set and break up, finishing the match playing really well. This
time I let her, you know, come back. She played good shots also in the third set. I guess,
you know, I have my chances. I didn't take it. That happens. It's so hard often to come
back and win the match. I give my best and I think that it was a good match. I should
have, you know, finished it up in three sets, and I lost the match. 
 
Q. About Martina, can you describe her game and how it's progressed to the point where
she's at this level right now?
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Well, like I say, I mean, she's a very talented player. I
mean, she has good hands, she can come to the net, stay back. She got good groundstrokes.
I mean, she's a player that -- I mean, she's improved a lot, she's young, she's there in
the top, you know, and do very well. I think that if you play your game and you move her
around and she's not in position, she has much more trouble. If you let her play, she can
probably, you know, come back with the good shots. 
 
Q. How far do you think she could go here?
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: I mean, the way she plays, you have to watch her. I mean, I
don't know. 
 
Q. Is it time to stop thinking of her as a 15 year old, but to think of her simply as a
tennis player now, or was this just one match?
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: No. Like I say, for me it was another match. It was nothing
different because I play at 15 years old, or she's so young, coming in the top. For me, it
was playing another player, really tough. You know, that she's also beating other players,
she's doing very well. I mean, it was not an easy match, I think. It was a very good
match. Finally, you know, I do have chances and I lost. But she did play also pretty good. 
 
Q. Have you seen much of Kournikova, and what do you think of the new crop, the younger
players, the new generation in the game?
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Well, I didn't see her match. I mean, I did not have the
chance to see her play because we always play different times. But, I mean, she's another
young one that has done very well. She comes from the qualifying, win a couple matches
here. It's great that other players are doing so well so young, be able to win so well. I
mean, I didn't see her play so I cannot tell you. But, I mean, she's playing now against
Steffi. She has nothing to lose. Depends how she plays today. But I think she can also do
pretty good. She's the youngest one that can do very well. 
 
Q. Arantxa, you've had some really tough losses this year. How would you assess your
year as a whole?
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Well, I think that I didn't have tough losses. I just think
that I lost two finals in the Grand Slam, in the Olympics. I think, like I say, if I would
not get to the final is when I have to worry more than if I'm not there. I'm very happy
with the year that I've been having. Mostly most of the players would like to be in my
position. I mean, it's better to win when you get to the final, but I just think that I
have a great year. You just have to see that I didn't stop play for three months, not
injured, doing my best, getting to the finals, losing three sets all the time. That seems
that I'm in very good shape, I'm in very good condition, so I have to be very happy. Most
other players would like to be where I am right now. I don't feel that it's been really
bad at all. I just think it's been very positive and very success. 
 
Q. You don't find it frustrating?
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Not at all. 
 
Q. For a fifteen year old, not you, but Hingis, what do you think of her tennis
intelligence, not just her ability to strike the ball, but her ability to create and
construct points and to stay in points, just the overall tennis intelligence on the court?
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Well, I think -- like I say, she's a talented player, so she
has good hands, she can come with different shots. You have to be also, you know, kind of
like smart to do different things, if you have a chance. But I just think that she only
15, she's doing really well. She hits the ball really, you know, very solid. That's why
she's winning so many points. Intelligence, I think you have to ask her. I think she's
playing the type of game she used to play when she was a junior. She's improved. I think
if you play your game aggressive, then she doesn't have so many chances to do all those
things. 
 
Q. Did you think you played your game aggressive at the beginning of the third set? She
seemed so frustrated at the end of the second.
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: I mean, when I was down is when I start playing, you know,
more aggressive and I win more points. You know, I was 2-Love up. That's when I lost my
chances. If I would continue, go for it, but I miss more shots, then she be able to come
back with good ones, we get more tight. I mean, I lost my chances playing the same way,
but in case of going in, my balls were going long. That's a big difference to finally lost
the match. I just think that I went for it, I made much more mistakes in the third set
than her. You know, the key point was just to stay ahead of her, and I didn't take my
chances. 
 
Q. Some of the other younger players, is the balance on the women's Tour as good as
it's been since you've hit the Tour?
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Well, I think it's nice to be able to see young players,
because I was in the same position, you know, when I started. I was in the same age,
coming strongly. It's nice to see that other players are doing the same progress. So
definitely, it's good for the game. The more players, the better it's going to be for the
game. Better tough matches you're going to have. I think it's good for the game. I mean, I
was in the same position, so I was happy when I do that. Nice to see other players doing,
it too. 
 
Q. Are you working with Jim Loehr at all?
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: No. 
 
Q. What happened? Two years ago that was so important to what you were able to do?
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: I just worked with him on 1994 for a while. It was not like a
long period. It was just when I was here in the States, but not anymore. Nothing happened.
Just because I'm probably playing so much that it's so hard to be able to be together, but
nothing happened between us. 
 
Q. Just kind of went away?
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Yeah. Because the schedule has been so hard that you cannot
handle it, but that's all. 
 
Q. When you come so close in a few finals like this year, does it ever cross your mind
that maybe you might want to start that up again?
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: No, because it's just -- as a matter of fact, you need a
little more luck or your shots need to be one on the line, not because I need mentally
anything to change. I didn't think about it. 
 
Q. Do you like the dress better than the skirt?
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Yes. Otherwise I wouldn't have wear it. 
 
End of FastScripts....            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT