U.S. OPEN
August 31, 1996
Arantxa Sanchez Vicario
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Do you like to play tougher matches?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  I think Coetzer is a tough opponent.  She beat me this year already in three sets once.  Last time we played was at the French, I beat her.  I think it was not easy match, but I do play really well and I was very focused at the beginning to be ahead and not let her be to the match.  I was be able -- anything I was doing was working really well.  I was very aggressive.  I guess she was hoping for me to probably make more mistakes or let her come more.  Today was a perfect match for me.  I just wanted not to be there too long.  It's nice to be able to win easy, playing well, same score as I did.  Besides that, it was not an easy match anyway. 
 

Q.  Your brother had a real grueling match today.  Is there a family rivalry in terms of who is going to succeed?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Not at all.  We always support each other.  I was really nervous waiting for my  match watching Javier.  Till the end I was very nervous.  I left because I couldn't stand anymore.  I was watching in the locker room.  Finally before the left the court to play my match, he won.  There's no rivalry between us.  We just trying to help each other and keep doing the best we can, all of us, but always we are close family.  We never have any rivalry or anything even.  I just think it's great that my brother is doing so well.  I think he deserve it.  He's working really hard.  Now results are coming.  I'm very happy because my brother is going through, too, and myself. 
 

Q.  Any thoughts on your next match with Martina Hingis?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, I think it will be kind of the same match as today.  They're both hitting the ball kind of flat.  She's pretty consistent.  I just thinking to play my game like I did today, be aggressive, play my own game, be able to do the same as I did today and see what happens.  I do have confidence.  I do playing well.  That's when it comes to be able to go to the next match.  Just do my game and we'll see what happens. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT