U.S. OPEN
August 29, 1996
Arantxa Sanchez Vicario
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Arantxa, can you tell us just how well Nicole played against you?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Well, I think she did try to come to the net, that's her game.
But I was very consistent. I guess I was be able to hit good passing shots and be able to
move well. I do think that that's her game, against an opponent that is hitting the ball
well, sometimes you have to try a little more. I think she played very well, served well,
too. I was being able to play very well, don't let her give me so much trouble.

Q. Satisfied with the way you played tonight?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Yeah, I'm very satisfied. I think I did play better than the
first match. I do feel more comfortable. It's a nice win, you know, tonight after a long
wait to play. I'm very satisfied with the match.

Q. Is it hard when you have a wait like that? Do you find that difficult? 

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: It's different to play during the day than night. You have to
wait all day, kind of practice in the morning. You have to go back to the hotel, rest a
couple hours, then come back here. Still, you just focus and concentrate. I do prefer to
play during the day when it's more warm, with the heat. It happens sometimes that you're
going to have to be able to play at night. You just try to do the same as you would do
every day by being more focused and more patient.

Q. The crowd part of the whole night experience doesn't really --

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: It was nice. It was the first match I play on center court,
first one I played in Grandstand. It was nice. I didn't have a nice experience after last
year when I lost the night match. Coming back and winning feels much better. The crowd
was, you know, excellent. I think they enjoyed it. It was a good win for me.

Q. How do you assess your chances to win after having reached the final before?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: I just take it one at a time. Anything can happen in two weeks
in a Grand Slam. I'm just thinking the first week, when it will be over, then thinking
about the next one. I know everybody has chances. As a matter of fact, I've had a very
good season, I'm doing well, I have confidence. That's what counts to come to this event.
I just have to play and see what happens. I'm just taking it one at a time and see how it
goes.

Q. Arantxa, one of the big stories in the first couple of days is Sabatini's return
from injury and her improved play. The last couple of years, how have people perceived her
game, including yourself? What have you seen in Sabatini's game? Have you seen it go
downhill, do you think?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Well, I just think that I see her the same game as she's been
playing, you know, lately. I didn't see probably big changes. She's been off for three
months because of injury. It's nice she's come back. She's a very talented player. I think
she can make good shots. She has good hands. The kind of way she's playing, I think she's
doing probably the same as she's been doing in the past.

Q. Is she somebody that over the last couple of years you and Steffi and the people at
the top of the game have considered a threat or do you think she's sort of fallen back
from where she was five or six years ago?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: No. I think she's doing fine, but there are other players who
have improved, too. The game has improved a lot. You have to win a lot of tournaments to
be able to play finals to be the top. If you don't do that, I mean, you don't have
results, it's normal that you fall. I guess that other players have to give passed her up
because they have better results. The game has improved. I don't think it's her fault, but
the game has improved.

Q. I notice you don't have your ball holder any more; you're wearing a dress. What's
the thing about that?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Well, a new mode of clothing, so I thought it would be nice to
be able to wear it tonight. I do feel comfortable. It's something kind of weird because I
have to ask the ball boy, something is missing. I guess it was not so bad. It helped me to
concentrate better on my serve. I can tell you it's not easy to make the change after
being playing so many years with the hold ball. I mean, for a change one time, it's fine.
It's not like a big problem.

Q. Are you going to go back to using it again in the future?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Yeah. I mean, I do have different clothing, so I will probably
play in the doubles also with that and singles. It all depends. I will use it a couple
times.

Q. Was this the first time today?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: That I wear a dress?

Q. Yes.

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Yes.

Q. Feel lighter?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Yeah, definitely. I feel good. I don't even think that I have
a dress. Normally I have the skirt. I feel very comfortable. I think I just trying to do
my job on the court. I think it looks better. It looks more feminine.

Q. Are you superstitious at all? You say you lost last year at night.

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: No, definitely it's a nice feeling. You know what you did last
year, come back and win, so it feels better. I'm not superstitious at all. I think every
match is different. It's the matter of fact the way you play. If you do well and play
well, you will win. If you don't, you have more chances to lose. I was not thinking that
at all tonight, no.

Q. You mentioned something that's been a theme a lot of players have mentioned, which
is the level of the game has gone up. At what point did you notice it sort of curving up
and why do you think that is?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Well, I think the women's game is improved. The women are
hitting the ball harder. You can see the results, players win a couple tournaments
differently this year. There's been some upsets, too. I guess that's -- it shows the way
the game has improved. Players, probably Steffi is the one winning more Grand Slams, but
the rest, other tournaments, has been different winners. I guess it's because, you know,
like I say, it's getting better, playing better matches. Since the beginning, we have
tough matches. It's not like you have easy matches anymore in the past, you know you'll be
able to win 6-1, 6-1, but you have to play anyway. I guess it's better, makes you feel
more confident because it gives you confidence to know if you did that, you are in a good
way to play the next matches.

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT