XXVI OLYMPIC GAMES
August 2, 1996
Arantxa Sanchez Vicario
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Don't you think you were less aggressive than usual today?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  No, I think that it was so difficult because she was hitting the ball so deep and so hard that for me I was just trying to move the ball.  And I have to take a little more risk and sometimes that can make you make more errors.  But I think the key, who wins the first set was going to win, probably, the match.  I was, I think, very unlucky probably the last three points of the tiebreaker.  And I came back being aggressive.  I was 6-4 down.  And she played one good lie and she played the let court. There's nothing you can do in that situation.  I think I'm still hitting the ball pretty good.  She didn't play many mistakes.  Even when she was on the run she hit a good shot.  I give my best, and I think she did play really well and someone one has to lose.  But I think I was still very aggressive.  But maybe I made more mistakes, because I know I have to go for it a little bit more. 
 

Q.  You've been in quite a lot of finals in big tournaments in the last couple of years and haven't been able to clinch one.  Is there any particular reason for that?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  No, I think that you have to be there to be able to try and win, so I think that is what is the most important thing, that I'm there.  And I've been having great success, been playing really well.  And I'm very happy.  I just think that it can go either way.  It's heads or tails.  And lately, like you said, I lost in the finals at Roland Garros, but I lost to the No. 1 player in the world.  But now I have the chance here.  I do have silver and bronze.  And it's also good compensation for me, so I'm happy for myself.  And like I say, you have to be there to try.  I don't have to be disappointed, I just have to continue, and in the good direction, and just keep going.  If I go like this a win will come my way, hopefully. 
 

Q.  You said you felt whoever won the first set was likely to win the match.  Did you feel that before the match began and if so was it difficult to get really pumped up for the second set?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  No, no.  When the match was going on, we both hold the serves and it was a very close first set.  And I just said that because in the tiebreaker I think she was a little bit tired, but she went for the shots a little bit more than myself.  And she was able to make the good shots.  I think that probably it would be different if I would have won the first set, then she knows she had to win two more and it could be different. But she got much more confidence and started playing better in the second set, too.  And I think I did fine, but I think that it was probably good playing for both of us, but she was more consistent and she took more chances before me and that's why she made more winners. 
 

Q.  Were you expecting her to play that well today?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, she's a very difficult player. She takes the ball on the rise and plays really flat.  She plays deep.  You know you have to play deep enough, because if you play a short ball she's going to come.  She has a lot of power, and she's very big.  She wins a lot of points with her serve.  She has a lot of weapons in her game.  And I think that if she plays so well during all the week she was going to be a tough opponent.  I thought her forehand was going to be more inconsistent.  But she went for it today and she was at her top.  But I think that she played really  well today. 
 

Q.  How much was the crowd a factor?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  If I tell you the truth, the crowd was not the fact why I lost.  I do have a lot of Spanish supporters.  Even the crowd is enjoying it a lot in the match.  And it was very close, but I do have a great support.  And I think that I give my best and that's where it counts.  If you give your best and somebody beats you it's because she plays better than you.  I think I have to be happy with my tournament. 
 

Q.  In previous meetings she'd only been able to take one set from you, is she doing something different or is she doing what she was doing better than what she did two years ago?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  No, I think she's much more consistent.  She's playing exactly probably the same as she was playing the matches before me, but like I say, she's not missing as many shots as before.  And when you are much more consistent, then you have more confidence and you can win more points.  And like I say, her forehand and her serve has improved and that's why she's getting stronger.  And she has the power because she's so strong and big that she would be able to take the ball in front of her.  She can hit a good shot.  That makes a difference.  And plus I think today I think my serve was not a big success for me and that's why I have a little trouble.  Every match is different, everybody is improving, and that's why the matches are different. 
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT