XXVI OLYMPIC GAMES
July 31, 1996
Arantxa Sanchez Vicario
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Arantxa, did you feel that the first set was a bad start for both of you?  Was it kind of flat?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, I think there were three different sets on the match.  I think at the beginning we both see which kind of game, tactics we're going to play.  And I think I did play better than her to win the first set and then she started coming back with very good shots down the line and started playing more deep.  And I did have all the passing shots on my racket and I missed a couple, so I lost the second set.  And then on the third set all the first games were very close, and could go either way. And she broke my serve, but I would be able to come back.  And finally like when it was more tight I did play pretty good passing shots when I needed it and I broke her serve again and I would be able to finish the match.  But I think that we both -- there was different kind of games, but we have some errors at the beginning, and she came back playing well and I did the same thing in the third set. 
 

Q.  Because of the way you play, is it more demoralizing for you to break her serve than for her to break your serve?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, she served harder than me. She's probably hitting harder serves.  But I would be able to return well.  So that was a very important key point for me to win and to see if I can put the volley in and make the passing shots.  She served -- her serve is very good.  She can come with a great serve, and then she comes and plays the net really well.  I know if I was breaking her serve, I have to keep concentrating with my serve and stay ahead so she has more problems.  And I did that a couple times and even I think on the second serve I was feeling a little bit nervous because I was so close after winning the first set that it caused me a little bit of trouble, some unforced errors, but she played very well.  And then I said to myself just go and be aggressive and go for it.  And that's when I played better in the last games and finally won the match. 
 

Q.  Arantxa, Jana said or suggested that she was a little bit disappointed, maybe with your side of it, because she felt that as her doubles partner, she didn't expect you to question every call that happened in the match.  Your thoughts on that.
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  I didn't question any of the calls. I think that that's something that is not right for her to say because I just looked down prior and he said good and I just went to the next side.  So I don't think that it was any questions of the calls.  I'm very surprised that she says that.  I was just doing my job and concentrating and playing well.  Maybe she was disappointed, because every time she has a chance she lost against me.  But this is tennis and that's the way it is.  But I didn't question any calls.  So I think that she should not say that, because it's not right. 
 

Q.  How close are you, having got to know each other as doubles players, how close are you in term of being friends?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, we've been playing for three years now, and I think it's hard to have a very close friend on the tour because there's a lot of frivolity is going on and everybody is trying to win.  We have a relation off the court but she has her friends, I have my friends.  We talk when we have to play doubles, sometimes; we practice  sometimes, but not much.  And it's good relation, but at the time when you have to play singles, everything you're trying to forget, and just trying to think it's another opponent and we both try to win and forget everything.  But we have a good relation off the court.  And we have good partnership when we play doubles.  But in singles, it's different. 
 

Q.  Do you think you won today because you were mentally tougher, the head was working well?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, I think I showed -- even when I was down, I was mentally ready to come back, and to be able to make good shots at the end when I needed it.  And I was so happy when I broke her serve for 4-3 that I play a forehand passing shot down the line and I was able to break the serve.  But I think at the end I did go more for my shots, too and that's where it caused me to win more points and be able to win the match. 
 

Q.  Would you prefer to play Mary Joe or Lindsay or does it matter?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Actually I know both players really well.  I think that they have the game pretty similar.  They both play very flat off the baseline.  Both play -- are doing very well so far, too.  It will be a different match for me than today because I think that probably there will be more rallies from the baseline, and not as much coming in like Jana has done to me today.  But still either Mary Joe or Lindsay has to move the ball and play deep and be aggressive like I did on the third set.  And I do have chances now to see what happens.  But I think that both has kind of the same game.  They go in more for the shots from the baseline. 
 

Q.  Is is a relief after Barcelona that you had tremendous pressure back home?  And now the coin has flipped the other way, because you'll be playing in America against a very partisan crowd?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Yeah, I said that at the beginning. After Barcelona I was so glad that passed away, because there was a lot of pressure and responsibility.  And I was happy to be able to win the bronze.  And I say that here would be different because I wouldn't have any pressure at all.  I have to play one at a time. And probably the pressure is more for the Americans because they're playing at home.  That can be an advantage for me.  It's good relief for me, because I do play with confidence, but not thinking that I have any pressure at all to win and just thinking one at a time and doing well.  Where it counts is that I did better than Barcelona and that's what I wanted to do, to come here and try to see if I can win a medal.  Now that I have it, I'm very excited, and just to see if I can go one more.  So maybe I can have all three, now. 
 

Q.  In addition to your Mom, who's out there, who else in your family is here, in that section?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, my Father and my Mom are here and then my coach and then the team, the doctor and the physical therapist and members from the Federation and other members from the Spanish team.  So all the athletes came to support me.  They were screaming with the flags.  And then the Royal Family in the Presidential Box.  And the Princess Helena, so it was a very supporting team that I had with me, and also I think that the crowd in Atlanta has been great.  And I'm very surprised and so happy that they've been supporting me so far.  And everything is going very well for me. 
 

Q.  Your father doesn't watch you very often or is that not fair to say?  I know your mother travels --
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  He's coming, but he doesn't come as much as my mother.  But he comes to the big tournaments and like Grand Slams.  But the problem is that they're not sitting together,  so that's why.  They always show mom more than dad, but he's there. 
 

Q.  Would you say Jana was the toughest opponent of the tournament?  You don't know who you're playing tomorrow.  But you said this was the toughest match for you?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  I think Kimiko Date was probably a tough match.  I was glad to pull that out.  And to be able to pull that out.  I was down, also.  But that gives me confidence to go in the match with Jana.  Every match you play is getting tougher and tougher because everybody is playing really well and playing her best.  But it's nice to pull these matches and it gives you confidence.  And now, as a matter of fact, in the final it can go either way.  But I think that if you play and you pull those matches it helps you to go into those situations because you have more tougher matches to go in the final is better than if you have easy matches, I guess. 
 

Q.  Arantxa, you mentioned coaches just now, which coach is here with you is it Mervin Rose or David de Miguel?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  No, David de Miguel.  Mervin Rose just helped me for three weeks during the grass period of tournaments.  But David is the coach. 
 

Q.  You must be getting sick of this question.  What means more, winning a Grand Slam or a gold medal?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Definitely winning a gold medal.  I think that it's because it's every four years.  That makes a difference.  And it will mean a lot to -- even now that you are in the final, having the silver is something that is historic, and it makes history.  So I'm very happy.  And I just have to go there and play my best and fight and see what happens.  But it will be a great feeling to be able to win the gold. 
 

Q.  Have you got your other medals displayed in some way or where do you keep them?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, I have it in my room.  So I have silver and bronze.  And it would be nice if I can have the gold, too.  So I have all three.  But if not, then I will still have another silver, that I think I deserve it, after great tournaments and the season I've been having.  I was looking forward to do my best in the final.  I enjoy myself, play well, and what happens, happens. 
 

Q.  Is there any major difference like a regular tournament compared to the Olympic games?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  This is different.  A Grand Slam you have the chance to play every year.  If you do well then you know you can have the chance to do it also next year.  And if not, then you also have another chance.  But Olympics it's a different feeling.  Atmosphere, it's even better, just going for the medal and being at the podium for your country is something very special.  So I think it's a very nice feeling to be part of the Spanish team for me, for myself.  And be my third Olympics and trying to fight for the final and give my best.  But I think that it's a mistake if the players who don't play the Olympics, because it means even much more. 
 

Q.  So, do you do something different from the regular tournament?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, I did prepare well for here. I've been playing a lot of matches during the last three months and I was in good shape.  As a matter of fact I just go one at a time with the matches and I do have a chance to see other events when I finish my matches that relaxes me.  I'll be able to concentrate and come back the next day and also playing my doubles.  I was very busy, but I do have a lot of fun and I've been still having fun.  
 

Q.  Do you like this format or would you rather see it be more of a team format like Fed Cup or some definition of the two?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, I think it's fine this way, because in singles it's yourself who plays, and you have a chance in doubles to be a team mate and have the chance, like I'm going to play now with Conchita together, for another place in the final in doubles, maybe.  So it's a very nice feeling because you don't have so many chances to play this kind of competition, but it's a lot of fun, too, and it makes it much more exciting, I think. 
 

Q.  Having won against Jana just moments ago, how does that change or does that change your preparation when you go against her in doubles later today?  Do you feel more confident?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, definitely gives you confidence because after winning the first singles and getting to the final, I mean now it's different because that was yourself who goes and try to win for yourself and get to a place in the finals.  But now going together with Conchita playing doubles it's going to be different because you need more communication and the points will be faster. Jana and Helena have been playing together maybe more than Conchita and I, but they have a lot of experience.  I think the pressure is more on them because they're more favored than us.  But I think we make a good team and we have to communicate and just concentrate. We're going to go there and try to do our best and see if we can pull that out, also.  But it's completely different playing singles and doubles. 
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT