XXVI OLYMPIC GAMES
July 29, 1996
Arantxa Sanchez Vicario
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  When Kimiko Date took the first set, did you feel nervous that the trend may go on?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, I think it was a long way to go still, so I have some opportunities to go ahead the first set and finally it was very long games and I lost the first set.  But I thought that it was still a long match.  And if I was -- would be able to continue the first games of the second set, everything will turn differently and have a chance to be the match.  So I started playing better, and I broke her serve, and I was ahead 3-1 for two, and finally won the second set.  And the third set was a battle, but finally when I needed, I came with good shots.  I think we both played great.  And at the end I did go more for the shots, and I would be able to finish them up. 
 

Q.  Were you expecting much of a problem?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  I was thinking about winning my match today, that's all I was thinking.  I wanted to do my job today, go in the court and see if I would be able to get to the semifinals.  I find out after my match that Novotna beat Monica.  But I was just trying to finish my match, also. 
 

Q.  How bad did the heat affect you in that last set, the last few games?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, I think it was for both of us, I mean it was really hot, real humid, but I guess I was just trying to continue and doing my work and concentrate and hang in there and try to go ahead in front of her and I think that she was having more troubles physically than I am.  I was still in very good shape, even with a long match.  But I think she at the end was more tired, you could see that.  And I think that was a point that helped me to keep going.  But also mentally I did go more for my shots when I needed them, the last game, and to finally -- I put the match away. 
 

Q.  It was your eighth consecutive victory over Date. Compared to the former games, was she tougher this time?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:   ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:   I know we played many times.  You say now it was eight times.  I think that -- 
 

Q.  Eight executive wins.
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Every match is different.  We play in different circumstances, so you cannot always compare.  Today she was tough, and she gave her best, too.  But she had a tough opponent.  We both gave our best, but finally at the good moments I came -- probably concentrated better, and go more for my shots and would be able to finish the match.  But I think she did a good job. She was tough. 
 

Q.  In the third set you seemed to have stomach pain or something.  When did you start to feel that pain?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, it was not a pain, I just think that I drink too much at the changeover, so I have the water in my stomach going up and down.  But it was not a problem, at all.  I just tried to not drink so much at the end and just think about point-by-point.  I didn't want to be dehydrated with the heat, so I guess I did drink more, but it helped me anyway.  So it was not any problem or any pain in my stomach. 
 

Q.  What about a cramp in your leg, did you have a cramp?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:   No, I didn't have any cramp.  It was just too much water in my stomach, but physically I was feeling fine, no problems, like Kimiko, she was feeling more cramps.  
 

Q.  Arantxa, a quick question on American culture, if I could.  This is a very historic place, Stone Mountain, the carving of the Confederate heroes.  Have you seen the carving and do you know anything about the history of this place?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  I don't know much about the place because I've been playing so many matches that you don't have much time.  I'm looking forward because I know it's something that I want to see, see the mountain and see what it's like.  I know they say it's beautiful around.  But I just have to find the time.  At the moment I'm just focused on my job. 
 

Q.  What's the difference between playing on the tour and the Olympics?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, they asked me that question many times, but I think that -- Grand Slams you have a chance to play every year, and yourself, as you played, if you win, it's great if you win a Grand Slam.  But if it doesn't go well, you have another chance the next year.  You can still prepare for that. Olympics is every four years, so it's a completely different feeling and the atmosphere is different.  You play for your country.  And just the mere fact that you're playing because you want to win, plus if you win, and you go to the podium, you win a medal for your country.  It's a very emotional, very different feeling.  I think the Olympics is an important event, it's like another Grand Slam, but it's just called the Olympics.  It's very historic.  If you win a medal you will be remembered a long time.  So there's a lot of things different; just the matter of fact to be nominated for your country is something special for anybody.  Plus even better if you have a great success. 
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT