THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 23, 1996
Arantxa Sanchez Vicario
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Hi. 
 
A. SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Hi.  
 

Q.  Talk about the match, the ups and the downs. 
 
A. SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, I think I had my chances.  Actually at the end I had more chances, I think. After the first set I played really well.  My balls would start getting a little short, so she started hitting the ball really well, started getting confidence.  Then I went to 5-2, I started hitting the ball harder, get more aggressive.  I come back.  Probably, like I say, I have my chances with the tiebreaker, but, you know, she hit better shots than me.  I think she played really well.  I just need -- probably I didn't play matches for a long time, and that is something, she really played one, so maybe she was more into the tournament than I did.  Besides that I think I'm not losing my confidence. I just have to keep going.  It's one of those matches that go either way.  I fight until the end, I give my best, but it was too late.  
 

Q.  You said you did or did not lose your confidence? 
 
A. SANCHEZ VICARIO:  I said, I'm not going to lose my confidence because I lose this match.  I just think that she played well and she attacked the ball at the right moment.  But I just think that I did have probably, you know, the tiebreaker really, you know, chances.  
 

Q.  The first set it looked like you were going to roll past.  When you were in the second set, were you surprised she went out ahead? 
 
A. SANCHEZ VICARIO:  I think I didn't put as many first serves as I did at the beginning of the match.  She take, you know, more the ball.  There was some period that I didn't probably put so many first serves in; makes a lot of difference on my game.  After I come back playing, you know, again well, could go either way.  She hit, you know, probably better shots than me.  
 

Q.  Does all of your experience, does that give you the confidence when you're down 5-2 to come back, because a lot of players couldn't mentally do that in the third? 
 
A. SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Like I say, I'm a player that tries to never give up.  I prove that.  I was match point down.  I tried to play my best tennis.  It came too late probably till the end.  Like I say, I just need probably more matches.  Right now.  When I get more into a roll it will be better for me, but I'm just going to keep going and, you know, think about the next one.  
 

Q.  When was the last match you played before tonight? 
 
A. SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Three weeks ago.  So it's been a long time.  You feel that a little bit, that's for sure.  
 

Q.  This tournament, you you've had either very good or very bad experiences. 
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  It happens sometimes that, you know -- sometimes everything goes well, sometimes it doesn't go as well as you want to.  Something is happening in tennis.  Not only depends on one tournament.  I just want to continue, you know, thinking about next ones. There's many more tournaments to come and hopefully will be better than this.  Definitely I've had great matches here and some, you know, matches that happened like today.  
 

Q.  Do you feel comfortable here?  How do you feel about this particular tournament? 
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  It's a great tournament. I think it's very nice to play.  People are very nice.  It's kind of like a Grand Slam, you know.  It's very nice if you do well here.  Hopefully, you know, I have many more tries.  
 

Q.  What do you do next? 
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, I'm still in doubles but I go to play claycourt tournaments after this.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT