WTA TOUR CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 15, 1995
Arantxa Sanchez Vicario
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Arantxa, she didn't really give away very much, did she, tonight?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, I think she's a very talented player and she's very dangerous.  She can really play well for a while and then miss a lot of shots, but she's always into the match, anyway.  So I just think I do have any chances probably in the second set with the game of 3-all and I have so many break points.  And I think that was the key, if I won that game, probably she will think more about everything.  But I let her come, probably and she started hitting more winners, getting more confidence.  And for me it was kind of late again, when I was 5-2, I started playing more deep and started going for my shots, too.  And she's a player if you give her the chance, she has very good hands so she can make very good volleys, so that's what happened today.  I just think I should have continued to be as aggressive at the beginning, but my balls kind of were getting a little long, and she played very well.  She served very well, especially in the third set.  She was not making so many first  -- she started attacking her second serve.  She started making more aces.


Q.  You've had three tough matches against her this year, what's changed with her now?  Why are the matches so close now?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  I always have very close matches against her.  I beat her three sets, and I always -- she's one of the players who's difficult to play, because she has very good hands.  You think sometimes the point is over and she comes with an unbelievable volley, like she did before the match point.  Not so much space, but she makes unbelievable shots.  You just have to keep going and concentrate.  And I think I did pretty good, but I was kind of late at the end.


Q.  You rested since September?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  October, yes.


Q.  Did you feel like you wanted to play, here, or --

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Of course, I mean, this is the last tournament of the year.  And I take some time, and I was looking forward to this tournament.  And I'm kind of a little bit disappointed the way it's going.  And now it's over, and I can start all over again next year.  She did play better than me at the end, that's why she beat me.


Q.  Is it some kind of compensation because you seem to be quite relaxed, to look forward to the holiday, though?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, I would have preferred that I was still in the tournament, for singles, for sure.  I  have to play doubles, and when this is over, I have some time and get ready for next year.  I'm already thinking probably about next year.


Q.  What would you say, this is a strange year, because you were No. 1 at the beginning of the year and you're No. 3 now, and you won only two tournaments?  Would you say it's a good year or not?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, it's been kind of like a strange year.  I did play really well at the Grand Slams.  But like you say, I only won two tournaments.  And I do have some injury between.  So it was the worst time for me to stop in two months.  And so recovering and coming back and playing again was difficult.  But I do think that I probably learned something from those matches.  And now it's over.  I think I have to look forward to next year.  And couldn't be so bad.  The big tournaments, where I wanted to play well, that's where I did.  And hopefully next year will be more success as has been in'94.


Q.  When and why did you decide to change your racket?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  When?


Q.  Yes.

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  We changed it a long time ago. My racket, they don't make it anymore.  I had to make the choice.  I cannot play with only four rackets.  That's why I changed.  The racket is not the problem.  I think I did play  well with the racket.  And as a matter of fact, I probably need more matches now.  And concentrate for next year.  But it's nothing to do with the racket.


Q.  What do you think about the idea to boycott the Australian Open?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, I think it's been a lot of talking about that.  And probably we just have to wait and see what the decision is.  But for sure, I think the players will play.


Q.  Why?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Why?  Because it's a Grand Slam.  It's a very important tournament.  We'll see what happens.  But I said what I think.


Q.  Would you play that regardless?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, it's a long time since I have to play.  I just think that for sure, I mean, I am looking forward to playing the Australian Open.  But I just have to see, you know, first of all how the decisions are, and I decide if I'm going to go or not.


Q.  How does it feel when you're a professional tennis player and you don't play for two months, but you're not injured, but you just don't play for two months?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, I think you're a human being and everybody needs a break.  For the last I should say three and a half years I did not have any break.  So I didn't  stop.  And I've been playing so many matches.  They are all tough matches.  And sometimes your body says, well, take a little time.  It's more probably time that you have to decide yourself that, okay, you have to stop.  And it's better to stop because of that reason than get injured, that's for sure.  And like I say, everybody takes the time maybe at the beginning of the year.  But I decided to take it at the end.  And it was better for me.  And I come back strong again.  And that's where I wanted to be.  And hopefully now I'm looking forward to '96. But I need it.


Q.  Was it difficult to make this decision?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, you wanted to continue play, but I listened to myself and to my body and say -- I decide that it was the best way to do it and that's why I did it.


Q.  Are you looking forward to playing Monica Seles next week?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Yeah, sure.  I think it's a very important competition.  And Conchita and I are looking to defend our title.  And we're going to play at home, and it's going to be tough.  And I'm looking forward to playing Monica. It will be the first chance we have to play each other.  And I'm excited to play.


Q.  Would you have enough time to play on clay?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, first of all I do have to  finish here, my doubles.  And when I'm over here I will start practicing on clay.  And that will be even nicer for me.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT