SANEX CHAMPIONSHIPS
October 30, 2001
Arantxa Sanchez Vicario
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Questions for Arantxa.  
 
 
Q.  Did your victory come as a surprise, the victory today?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO:  Well, not really.  I think all the matches were going to be very tough.  Obviously, a lot of times I play Nathalie, I beat her except the last time we played at the US Open.  That's when she beat me.  Today I was very confident.  I just think that I take my chances and I came to the net a lot of times, and probably I should pass her, as well.  You know, I probably play very good game.  Maybe I take my opportunities.  Some games were very close.  But finally I would be able to break her and finish it up in two sets.  
 
Q.  How did it feel playing Nathalie on her last match of the WTA Tour?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO:  Well, obviously is not a nice feeling because you know if you win, you're not going to have the chance to play her anymore.  That's the game.  Obviously, we play many, many times.  I was just hoping, you know, to do well.  I was concentrated, tried to win.  That's all I was thinking.  Sometimes you have to separate, you know, your feelings.  Obviously after then you talk a little bit, but on the court I just wanted to win the match.  
 
Q.  On a personal level, will you miss her?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO:  Obviously, I'll miss her.  She's a great player.  I play her many times in singles and in doubles.  As a partner, she's definitely a great player.  You know, is going to be another miss on the tour.  I just wish her all the best in her new career.  
 
Q.  What are your expectations?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO:  Just being at The Masters, it probably means a lot because you're playing your best tennis.  To qualify for The Masters.  You know, I was just taking it to play match by match.  I'm glad I pass the first one.  It gives me confidence to go to the next one.  Just taking one at a time.  That's all I'm looking ahead.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT