U.S. OPEN
September 3, 1995
Arantxa Sanchez Vicario
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Arantxa, normally it's you as the player who never gives up and keeps going and
keeps going, it's not always been a hallmark of Mary Joe, were you a little surprised, you
think you might have been able to put her away after that first set?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: I think you're wrong. I think Mary Joe is a player who also
never gives up. I mean, she prove it many times when she was set 5-1 down match point, so
I don't think that I have to be surprised because I think that's also the way she is. So I
think I should have win the match in two sets because I was playing really well in the
beginning and probably at 4-2 I was a little bit unlucky, but she went more for the shots
than I did and she make it, you know, many when she need it. So I think probably even
though that I know I lost the second set in, the third set I also have the advantage to
finish the match and I think I let her go a little bit and she played -- come back with
great shots. And I know that, you know, the match was not over because she always, you
know, when she was behind she was playing great shots, she took a lot of risks and she was
probably lucky sometimes that she made it, but she did the right thing. And I think I let
her get into the match, you know, and that was my mistake. But on the third set I also,
you know, have my opportunities and I didn't take them, so that's why I lost the match.

Q. Did it throw you off when she started coming into the net?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: No, because she was coming in also in the beginning, but I was
passing her very well and I was playing very deep and moving the ball very well, so she
had more trouble. And I guess when I have to finish the match I let her hit the ball a
little bit short and she attacked better and she took the opportunities that she had more
than I did. But I think should have never let her get into the match and that was one of
the problems.

Q. Arantxa, how disappointing is it to know that you've lost your title here?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Well, it's always - you know, you try -- you try to defend it,
and I think I don't have to be disappointed because I played a great match and probably
she played better than I did at the end and she beat me, but sometimes it's also a little
bit kind of like you think well, you have the match to win it and you let it go. But I
don't think I have to be disappointed because I have a player today who played better at
the end and she took the risk when she needed before I did and, you know, she took more
advantage of that and finally, you know, it was kind of hard to come back. But, I mean,
it's nothing I can do now. It's probably, you know, it's just probably the other players
now they have the opportunity to win it and that's all I can say.

Q. Is it going to be strange not being in the finals; you've been in the last seven of
the last eight Grand Slam finals, four in a row, are you going to watch it?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Well, I think I'm a human being and I think I cannot win every
match, but of course I wanted to win this match today and continue into the tournament and
try to get and see if I could play my other four final Grand Slam, but, I mean, sometimes,
you know, things are not working on your side and if you don't take the opportunities,
it's even harder. But, I mean, I have to be happy because I played great and probably I
just need maybe a little lucky at the end too. But she did well.

Q. There hasn't been a major title for you this year, does that make the WTA
Championships in November a little more important to you, that that will be the last
chance to have a big one this year as opposed to just a regular tournament?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Every time I play a tournament it's big, you're just trying to
play your best. I played a lot this year and it's been also pretty good year for me, so I
don't have to be disappointed. I wish I would win all the tournaments, but I didn't.
Probably now I have more time and I concentrate for the doubles because I'm not over yet,
and when I finish here, try top concentrate for the next one and, of course, be ready for
the championship that probably will be the last one of the year.

Q. Is that (inaudible) doubles, it's the top 16 players for you being that --

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: I mean, this event is big, it's important, it's a Grand Slam
and you want to do well here. So now that it's over I'll still have to think of my
doubles, but of course I will concentrate for the big one after that, probably the biggest
one is the championships is the next one. 

Q. Arantxa, the situation you're used to being playing a night match. When you're
playing so late in the day, how do you spend the day before the match getting ready?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Well, it's different because when you're playing in the day,
you know what time probably you're going to play, you have to -- when you play at night,
you know, you have to wait all day to play. But you warm up a little bit in the morning
and you have some break and some time to rest and then probably, you know, workout before
the match again and get ready. So, you know you're going to have one night match, so
you're ready for that, and I don't think it has to be anything that I played tonight.
Sometimes it's not as hot and the weather -- it's also nights it's humid. But, I mean, you
have to be used to it to play during the day and also to get ready for play at night.

Q. Does it make you more nervous, you're thinking about the match all day, more than
just for a few hours?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: No, I mean, you're mentally getting ready, you prepare
differently the day when you're going to play at night than when you're going to play the
day. But I don't think it makes you nervous. You think the same when you're going to play
during the day or during the night.

Q. What were you thinking when you made that lob, you made that kind of shanked that
lob, first match point?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Well, I wanted to hit it cross court, and, I mean, I hit it a
little bit late, I hit it with the frame, but that was the shot I wanted to play and I was
kind of a little bit lucky. But I think she also made a couple of shots that probably she
didn't thought it was going over the net and she made pretty good drop shots. So sometimes
you don't expect to play so well, but it comes the moment that you play a great shot when
you need it and that's when it counts.

Q. You had that one really long game in the first set and then you wound up winning and
breaking her. Did you think that might be demoralizing for her, you might be able to roll
on from there?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: I think it was very important game because it would be
different to going 5-1 up than be 4-2 after, you know, how many times she has to serve.
But I guess I've been in the situation before that I've been in many deuces and probably
was very important to win that game. And finally I broke her serve and I was be able to
win the first set. And I think, you know, I play very good and maybe when I needed I
should have probably take a little more risk, but, you know, she did it before I did so I
didn't have many chances. But that was a very important, you know, game; especially to win
the first set

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT