U.S. OPEN
August 30, 1995
Arantxa Sanchez Vicario
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. That first set, was that good for you to have a little bit of a battle?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Yeah, I think it is better to have, you know, a tough match,
and she started really well at the beginning. She was not missing and probably my balls
were getting little short. It was kind of hard to play with the shadow and the sun.
Sometimes you missed ball. It was a good test. When I was down 4-2, I started playing my
own game and concentrate, getting more focused and start playing much better. Then I took
control of the match. But I think it was -- it is always better to have these kind of
matches and give you more confidence. I think I played better than I did on the first day.
It is good to be able to go through. 

Q. When we last left you, you said you weren't sure whether you would watch the Monica
match. Did you get a chance to see it? 

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: No.

Q. So you had something else?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: I did not see the match. So...

Q. Just another day at the office?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Yeah. I think, you know, it is nice to be able to come and
play well and, you know, win the match and like you say, it is another day in the office
that I go through. 

Q. Do you feel particularly different coming in this year after winning last year, I
mean, anymore at ease or does it feel any different this year?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Oh, it feels better because I mean, you are the defending
champion. I mean, you know what you have done and it is always nice to come back get on
the same court and same atmosphere. It is very nice feeling, so I feel comfortable here
and I guess, you know, it is nice to come back where you win a tournament as the U.S.
Open. That is something different -- coming to play it is like another year and another
Grand Slam and probably I think that I have the support of the crowd so it helps you. It
feels great to come back. 

Q. Do you feel there is a little less pressure because Monica has come back here and
Steffi is having her trouble?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Yes, they asked me before and I say that I think definitely,
you know, it has taken a lot of pressure off me because the attention is on her and
Steffi, so I think it helps me because I can play better and, you know, keep going play
one at a time and have fun and play well and keep winning, so that is good. I think I like
it that way, yeah. 

Q. Do you feel she could be a good player, but it is just a matter of time?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: She started really well at the beginning. It is the first time
I played her so maybe she surprised me the first time I play her. When I was down 4-2 I
think the important points I play well and I was more focused and I start moving the ball
better and going deep than waiting until winning the shot. Probably after I won the first
set she was maybe more down because she know she had the chances in the first set. I think
she was a little tired too because I was moving the ball a better and I think that once I
took the control playing my own game she has more trouble and she started making more
mistakes because she was not in the position to hit it well. 

Q. What is your outlook on someone like Martina Hingis playing at 14 on the circuit?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: It reminds me when I was playing when I started too. I mean, I
was only 13 and she is 14, but she did very well in juniors and it is normal that she come
to turn pro because she has the game and I think it is good for the game. I mean, it is
getting more, you know, players and she is very talented player, so I think it is good for
her and for the game, so I think also, you know, when I started I was that way, so it is
nice to see somebody else doing it also very well. 

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT