FAMILY CIRCLE CUP
March 30, 1995
Arantxa Sanchez Vicario
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Arantxa, tell us how you hurt your ankle and what it feels like.

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Well, I -- I hurt it very badly.  I mean, went all over and I'm questioning that I never tape up before I play, but I don't know why because other players also hurt themselves also.  I put tape before I went to the court and that supported me a little bit, you know, when the situation happened.  So it would have been worse if I didn't have tape.  But I mean, when she put -- you know, she came up and, you know, moved my feet and was hurting me a lot, but she put more tape and because it was warm I guess I would be able to stand up and move it and continue to play a little bit.  And I feel a little bit sometimes some shots, but I decides to continue to see if I am be able to finish the match.  And after, because we were more warm, and I didn't think too much about it.  I continued playing but it's amazing to finish the match, you know, the situation like that, but I guess mentally I just never give up and I was able to concentrate and keep going even with pain and I finish the match and win that way.  I think it gives me great confidence and it's kind of like unbelievable match to come back, you know, the situation I was.


Q.  Is that your biggest strength?  I mean, a lot of other people wouldn't have played with the flu, the ankle, you're going to play the doubles.

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: I don't know if I will be able to play the doubles, I have to see how it reacts.  But I mean, even with the conditions I have, first I have flu, then I sprain my ankle, I mean what else -- I mean everything happened the same day and same week, but probably I'm strong player and I just thought that I wanted to try, you know, 100 percent to see if I was going to be able to finish.  But mentally I decide that I keep going and because I'm that way I think that that shows a lot of courage and, you know, a lot of strength and be able to finish and come back winning the match I think was good.


Q.  Why did you keep going?  Where did you get the inspiration from?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Well, I think that I'm a player who never gives up. I mean, that's what I have, that I was -- you know, it's been helping me a lot during all the matches and I'm a player that -- I'm a person who, you know, always trying to, you know, give my best and, you know, I continue, you know, myself on the court and I decide to, you know, be able to try and see how it's going to be.  And my reaction was really good and mentally I never give up and that helps me continue into the match.


Q.  Did you know that if you had lost the match you would have lost the No. 1 ranking and might that have been the inspiration?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: It doesn't come to my mind.


Q.  Did you know before the match?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: No, I didn't know. I know Steffi is really close for me, I mean she won the last three tournaments she play.  I didn't know  about that, I was just trying to give my best on the court and I give a lot of courage, you know, winning that match and it's a great feeling to come back winning that way but now I have to be careful with my foot.


Q.  What did the trainer tell you?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Well, she just put on ice right away.  So I have to come back now, but I mean, it's a sprained ligament and its really kind of serious.  I mean, it's not something that -- maybe now because it's warm it feels better, but probably will hurt later.  But I just have to be careful and hopefully tomorrow will be better, but I have to be careful.


Q.  After you your fall you started playing good again.  Did the confusion about who was supposed to have to serve have any affect on the game at all.  I don't know if I understand it yet.

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: I mean me either. It happened the first time in my whole life professionally that happened that situation.  I mean, I was worried about my foot and see how it was going to be and I would be able to come back and play, and I won two points and suddenly it's 2-All and then she changed positions no, it's 3-1 and serve 3-Love.  I mean, what's happening.  The situation was kind of bothering me a little bit and I couldn't win that game and it would be 3-2 and I went 4 down and I just tried not to think about that too much.  And it confused me a little bit and bothering me a little bit that situation.


Q.  Was it handled correctly you think?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: I think she should know we should have played 2-1 on deuce or do something else, but not 3-1 and 3-Love; you never start on that situation.  But I mean the, rules are the rules and you just have to, you know, continue playing, but I think it was kind of, you know, interesting that she -- the situation.  I mean, it's not normal and she should do it since the beginning, not wait until two points after.  You know, that's what I think, but she knows her job too.


Q.  At 3-Love down in the third set did you change anything about your game to then run off six straight?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Well, I did know the situation the first day too against Dragomir so, I think at 3-Love I started being more patient and wait. I went couple times to the net and put more pressure and I wait more, I have my chances, you know.  Maybe at the beginning I was too rushed and I left the ball a little short, she take advantage, but I start playing more deep, more aggressively and that is what it turns around.  I served very well when I needed to and that was the key to come back and win the match.


Q.  So you didn't know that she had won the game on that point that you went down?   I mean, that's what the score board said.

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Not yet.  I mean, it was 2-1 deuce so I knew that we have to play that game, but I know that if I win two points, you know, probably would be 2-All and that's what happens.  Suddenly everything came confused.


Q.  No, it wasn't deuce, it was game point.

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: I don't know, I'm getting all confused now.  I just hit the shot.  I know I hit a forehand, that's all I remember, and suddenly I  have a lot of pain.  I just saw the stars and that's when I went to the floor.  I know I sprained it very badly, that's what I remember, and I went into the towel because there was a lot of pain.  I don't even know what the score was, but I don't know if I was going to be able to come back and play because of the pain, but I guess I'm a strong player and I come back.


Q.  It looked like a two-step process.  It looked like you slid, stopped, then fell.

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: I remember I slide. I mean, I went for the shot and slide and suddenly I was on the floor with pain.  So I guess my shoe stuck into the clay and roll over.  I mean, I don't know. The replay probably can see better, but I don't think it would look very nice to see it.


Q.  You laid there for about two or three minutes.  It looked like you were hurt maybe even more seriously than you were.  Did you know how serious it was at first or did you think it was worse than a sprained ankle?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Well, I knew it was very bad.  It came with a lot of pain, but I guess, like I say, I had tape so that helped me a little bit. But it was really bad.  I mean, I didn't know if I would be able to continue playing.  At the beginning, I mean, in my reaction, but then I stepped, you know, and I walked a little bit and it hurt me but because it was kind of warm I continue, but it's amazing.  And of course you continue playing the match.

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: I never tape my ankles on clay, only on hard court or indoor courts.  I never did before but because other players tape themselves, I should tape and I hurt myself.


Q.  When you continued playing, was the pain from up and back or side to side?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: It was side to side.  I was able to go to the net because sideways was bothering me a lot, especially when she was hitting good angles.  But I had good reaction to be more patient than hit and so she left me short balls and that's when I attacked and helped me to win the match. I mean, I changed a little bit the strategy but definitely it was mentally, you know your foot is hurting you and long rallies was not helping me at all but I was very patient and concentration and I continued to play.


Q.  How tough was Amanda today?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Well, she is a great player.  I mean, she runs and hits all the balls back, she is a great player and she hits very good groundstrokes.  If you let her play, she plays dangerous.  We always had good matches together.  I mean, especially first sets and tiebreaker and stuff like that.  She has to be very happy with the way she played.  She played much more aggressively than the past matches, but she had to play, you know, even stronger and react mentally really good and be able to finish, be more aggressively and then she know that I give everything back and this is kind of hard for her. But I think she played great match and gives me good confidence to go and win.


Q.  Don't you think she's be upset?  I mean, you've got a cold and you've got a bad foot and she was  leading.

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: You have to ask her, I don't know.  But maybe a little bit for sure.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT