FAMILY CIRCLE CUP
March 29, 1995
Arantxa Sanchez Vicario
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 

Q.  Arantxa, in the first set it appeared as though you were a little loose, kind of going through the motions was the fear of losing kind of your wake up call, you really picked it up in the second set?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Yeah, definitely it was a wake up call.  It's my first match in nine months that I play on clay so it's kind of difficult in the beginning.  She was playing very well, very solid, not missing at all and I think it was a good wake up call. I mean, it took me a little while to get into the match, but then I get with it and start playing my game and be a little more aggressive and go sometimes to the net and it helped me to get more into the match.  And then on the third set at 1-All maybe I started getting a little bit more conservative, some shots that I couldn't hit and winners, I drop the ball and make mistakes, but definitely is a very good match.  Always the first is -- the toughest one to get the first match.  And it's a very good -- gives me a lot of confidence to go into the tournament and I think it's nicer to have the toughest matches in the beginning to get involved more into the tournament.  And I think it was a very good match and I was, you know, strong mentally, I never give up.  And finally when I needed to play well, that's when I won the match. 
 

Q.  It was 1-3 in the third set, was that one of those points where you had your confidence but you thought you had to play a little bit better or change something?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: The points were very long, you have to be very patient because you know clay you have to workout more to be able to finish the point.  And I think that I just take, you know, my opportunities, wait until I have a chance.  And I couldn't finish them up early maybe, but it took me a little longer.  But I think she is a good player, she played really well and give me good confidence this match to play long rallies and I mixed it up a little bit where I need it and that's where it counts at the end. 
 

Q.  You sound like you have a little bit of a cold.
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: I have -- I think I get the virus or the flu, and I catch it.  Something that -- I mean, it was hard to play with that on the court because you're sneezing is in the middle of the point and you cannot breathe really well, you can sound my voice is not well.  But I'm trying not to think about that and definitely I have to work out a lot today and hopefully it will not bother me through the week.  But it's something that it happens and you just have to continue with that. 
 

Q.  You said that you were strong mentally in the match.  Do you think that maybe in the beginning of the second set she lost some of her concentration, concerned about some calls or something?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: No, I don't think that she lost her concentration, I think that I started  playing better.  I wasn't missing as many shots as the beginning and I started getting more patient, and that's where it comes around.  That I started playing, you know, longer points, deeper and wait until I have a chance to go into the net and put more pressure.  So she was feeling different.  You know, she started going to play a little more -- going for the shot more and it's difficult, you know.  I think it was a good, you know, wake up call to lose the first set because I was, you know, very close even to win it but I lost it, and I just continued, you know, thinking to play well and definitely it's a very good match for me. 
 

Q.  Did her arguing seem to get you --
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: What? 
 

Q.  Did her arguing seem to fire you up a little bit?  Were you a little fired up just because she was arguing?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Of what? 
 

Q.  In the second set.
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: No, I just -- I mean, first set I lost, then I just tried to -- I always thought, you know, to continue having the same concentration and started in the beginning of the second set.  But I never, you know, look what she was doing or how she was playing, I just thought that I have to take my chances and be more patient and I workout. 
 

Q.  Was her strategy against you what you expected?  She was hitting a lot of high balls and keeping you off balance a little bit.
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Yeah. I mean, I play her before and I know the kind of game she was going to play, and I just was rushing a little bit.  I mean, I was not so patient in the beginning and it's so tough always in the beginning of the season to start playing back on clay.  I mean, after nine months playing on hard courts or indoors it's completely different.  You have to workout more the point, and maybe I was just not -- you know, too patient in the beginning and work out really well that she was you know putting more balls back than I did in the first set and that's why I lost it.  But after that I know where I went wrong and that's why I change everything and I'm glad I'm able to play better and win the match. 
 

Q.  Is it tougher that you came in here with the change of surface after not having such a great Lipton?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: No.  I mean, every tournament is different.  I mean, I don't think that I'm thinking right now about Lipton anymore because it's gone for me.  I mean, I didn't have pretty good tournament, but now I'm thinking about the clay. Normally you have a week between so you can warm up to get better on clay, but now that comes after Lipton so it's tougher.  But it's something that I decided that I wanted to do and I'm back on clay thinking be more patient and have good matches like today and start all the clay court season. 
 

Q.  Are you taking anything for your cold?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Yeah, the doctor is giving me something.  I mean, no antibiotic because I have to have play, but something to help me to discongest a little bit and feel better. 
 

Q.  Ruxandra had said, you know, that sometimes maybe officials not knowingly give the top players the benefit of some calls.  Have you ever noticed that, being one of the top players? 
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: No, I don't think so.  I think they're doing her job and they're doing the best they can.  I don't think that.  It happens to everybody.  I mean, they are very close calls and they go for what they think.  I think they're not only going to go for the top players, no way.  I mean, they're doing their job and you know you're going to have good calls or bad calls, you have to be ready for that, and I don't think you can complain about that. 
 

Q.  Did you think your serve was in on that?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: On what? 
 

Q.  She was arguing --.
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: I don't know. They call it good.  It's hard.  I just try to concentrate getting into the match.  I mean, I don't know, I just go for the call.  It's hard to say. 
 

Q.  Are you getting used to the, I guess, the bulls eye that No. 1 brings with it, being No. 1 with players like Dragomir ranked 82 in the world are really coming after you giving everything they've got when they're playing the No. 1 player in the world?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: One thing for sure is that everybody would like to beat the No. 1 player. First thing they have nothing to lose and if they beat the first player it's a great win.  I think all the players in the past tried to beat Steffi and now they try to beat me.  I know that, but I'm ready and I'm going to give my best and see what happens.  I think it's normal they will try to beat you. 
 

Q.  When was the first time you played against the No. 1?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: I don't know. 
 

Q.  Probably with Martina, wouldn't it?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Yes, at Lipton on first -- when I just started in '87, if I'm not wrong, '86, '87. 
 

Q.  How did you do?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: I lost kind of tough.  It was five and six. 
 

Q.  You played Chris that year too the year you beat her 7-5, 7-6.
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: The year after it I beat Chris.  '88 is when I beat Chris and '87 is when I played Martina. 
 

Q.  So, you know the feeling of somebody trying to --
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Yeah, definitely. It's normal.  I mean, it's a great feeling to go and try to beat the first player in the world.  You just play your best and it's a different feeling.  I know what it's like and definitely I just know thinking of doing my best and see what happens. 
 

Q.  Do you welcome that challenge?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: What? 
 

Q.  Do you welcome that as part of being No. 1?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Yeah, of course. It's part of the challenge issue.  I mean you have to be ready for that and you're just trying to play your best on all the tournaments and -- but I'm just thinking to play, you know, well and the let the rest -- not about the rest. 
 

Q.  How much difference do you think it would have made if Mary Pierce would not have pulled her groin muscle?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Well, I think it would be even better to have not only Mary but if  Steffi would be here or even Monica, she's coming back, I don't know, but the more we have the better competition it would be for a tournament and we can play each other more.  And I was looking forward to coming here and have very tough matches at the beginning and maybe be able to play against Mary.  But we have to wait now and just thinking about this tournament and doing well.  But will be even better if everybody would be here, definitely. 
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT