VIRGINIA SLIMS CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 19, 1994
Arantxa Sanchez Vicario
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MS. BROEMAN:  Ladies and gentlemen, we are very pleased that this has been a great week, and we are honored to talk today about the fact that today, that Arantxa Sanchez Vicario, is the number one player in the Virginia Slims bonus pool points and now the world champion of Women's Tennis.  Arantxa, congratulations.  
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Thank you.  
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Thank you.  
 

Q.  Are there any questions for Arantxa?  As you may know, Arantxa is playing in the doubles finals in a couple of hours, so we will be giving you -- its being copied right now.  The bonus pool breakdown is based on whether Arantxa wins or doesn't win the doubles, so the check will actually be presented by Ina Broeman in Virginia Slims to her after the doubles, but we wanted to make sure we let know about it now so you can make your deadlines and we don't keep to you late. 
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, it's an honor to be part of world champion.  I think I've been the fifth woman who is winning this award and this, you know, represents a lot to me because it's all the hard work I've been doing during the year and being the first Spanish woman, I think, you know, it's great.  So I'm very excited and I think it is a, you know, an honor for me.  And also, I was -- I want to say thanks to Virginia Slims because they've been a great sponsor for 25 years and thanks to Ina for everything you've done for us and I'm very glad and happy to be able to be in the ITF dinner.  You know, and be there in my -- you know, in my honor and I was there when my brother Javier won the World Junior Champions, but this dinner will be in my honor and thank you very much, and I couldn't be happier today. (Applause and champagne toast was had by all).  
 

Q.  Not too much, Arantxa, you have to play doubles. 
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  A little bit.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT