U.S. OPEN
September 6, 1994
Arantxa Sanchez Vicario
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Arantxa, in the second set, when you were up 2-Love, she had two breakpoints and you were able to serve your way out of trouble and win that game; what do you feel that did for you and what do you think that did to her? 

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, I think that game was very important, and maybe, you know, she couldn't, you know, come back if she would win that game because it's different to be 2-1 or to be 3-Love, but I make a very good serve when I need it, and I think the whole match I played, you know, very deep, really concentrate, and moving her around.  So, she was having some trouble, and finally when I needed the important point to play well, I did it really well that and makes the difference. 


Q.  Did you find something different in Date's play from in Canada or Federation Cup? 

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, we know each other's game really well because we have been a lot -- we played a lot against each other this year.  And I make the difference because I play much more deep today than I did in Canada when I played her the first set, so she couldn't play more better, but the way she's playing, she's been doing the same -- she's a dangerous player, and you don't let her be in control, otherwise it can be very dangerous.  She played well and I played very deep today and it's harder because I hit, you know, pretty good balls and when I needed to finish the point, I did it really well.  So she had much more trouble because I play, you know, differently than I did in the past two matches. 


Q.  We ask Steffi a lot of times when she comes in here after an easy match does she ever want a tougher match; you've had very easy matches for-- at least scorewise-- for the last couple of matches.  Do you wish you had a tougher match going into the semifinals, or -- 

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  No, I think that even the matches, the results have been so easy that I didn't think that I didn't have a point where it was not as good.  I played very well and every day I play better, myself, and I've been serving well when I need it and that turns the matches so easy, but I think I concentrated a little and didn't let her play. But I think the way I played, I'm happy, because I did the right thing and did what I wanted to do. It doesn't matter if you have an easy match, but you have to play any match and anything can happen and maybe I don't let them play as they want to play. 


Q.  Arantxa, talking Thomas Muster yesterday, he's a claycourt specialist and he said that really, there's not that great a difference between the clay and this surface, the speed of it and he felt, yes, he had to sprint a little bit more, but it was a good surface for people who do well on claycourt surface; what's your feeling on how well it suits you? 

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  I think this surface is not as fast as could be other hardcourts, so, you'd be able to play on the baseline.  It's the same as if you want to play serve and volley.  But, yeah, I think everybody likes this courts because, you can play long rallies or you can finish the point, but definitely I feel the same way.  I think this court is pretty slow and I feel that it's very good court to play and you can play different ways, but definitely I agree with Thomas.  A claycourt player can also play on this surface and also do very well and be very comfortable, even if it is a hardcourt. 


Q.  If Sabatini goes on to win, she's won the first set, what kind of problems does she present for you and is she playing better than she has in a long time? 

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  I think she's playing better than in the past and she start getting more confidence. So it is a player who's very talented and I think I'm going to concentrate and, you know, play my own game, be aggressive and see what happens.  But definitely, she's playing better than she did in the past. 


Q.  Is it sort of hard to know what to expect from her; she won here being very aggressive in 1990, serve and volley and then it kind of went away; when you go to play her is it hard to know what kind of game she'll be playing that day? 

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  I think we know each other well and I just think we both play well and we have a lot of confidence at the moment, so it's going to be very interesting match.  We always play really good matches and I'm just looking forward to do my best, play as aggressive and see what happens but she's playing better than in the past. 


Q.  Gaby is also talking that she's trying to work on being more aggressive.  Will it come down to which one can be the most aggressive, come to the net occasionally on critical points? 

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, I think with Gaby, that way also can be long rallies.  Depends how the-- you know, who has the first chance to go in to the net.  But I will have to be patient because you can have long rallies and also I would have to wait until I have a chance to go to the net, otherwise she can make a good shot.  But definitely I think I'm looking forward to playing that match and I'm very happy with the way I played and I'm just going to concentrate and see what happens. 


Q.  Do you feel like she really has begun to get back close to where she was four years ago, or are the results a little misleading because maybe the women's field isn't as deep, and when she meets you there's a big gap between who she's playing and yourself? 

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, I think depends.  I just think that she's playing better and, you can see her results.  She has a little more confidence, so, she's still, you know, very good player, and it's always very good to play against her, because she's been very good player and she's still a very good player.  So I'm just, you know, hoping that I know I'm probably going to face her and, you know, trying to play my best and don't think that -- don't put pressure on myself.  It's like another match for me and I'm just going to go play my best and see what happens. 


Q.  Arantxa, there seems to be some feeling that Andre Agassi is sort of saving this tournament and bringing a lot of attention and everything I'm curious, number one, what you think of that, is he what "tennis needs," and secondly, did you happen to watch his match yesterday? 

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  I watched a little bit, and I mean I think it's normal, he's American, he plays at home and everybody is watching him and expecting him to do well so maybe men have much more attraction now and everybody is focused on him, so probably he will be very happy about that. 


Q.  Is he different enough that he's sort of a star or has something extra when he plays in Spain?  Would his act work -- 

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, he's a showman.  Everywhere he goes, he has attention.  Everybody likes the way he plays, and the way he's acting on the court. So, everybody knows that and it doesn't matter where he plays, the court is always full and it's always good to see that.  And everybody knows that he's very well-known, everywhere.  And that's why when he plays, everybody goes to watch him play and they have a good time too. 


Q.  Arantxa, if you happen to win this tournament, you'll probably be closer to the number one spot than you've ever been.  Is that something that's in the back of your mind or not? 

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, I'm not think that way, I just think that, you know, I'm thinking about playing one at a time and, you know, doing the best I can, enjoy myself, every match I play and then we can talk about the other things.  But I'm not looking that way.  I just hope to do my best, and that's all.  But I'm not only thinking about getting closer to number one and that's on my head, I just know I'm getting closer and I'm doing well and I don't put that on myself at all. 


Q.  Do you think if you win here-- you would have won two of the four Grand Slams, Graf would have only won one going out in the first round at Wimbledon, do you think you're the best player in the world this year, then, despite the computer? 

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  I just think that I've been playing really well on different surface.  I don't know if I would be the best player in the year or not, but I don't think that way.  I just trying to do my best and thinking about myself and getting the best results I have and the rest will come.  But, I don't put any pressure on thinking about that at all. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT