U.S. OPEN
September 4, 1994
Arantxa Sanchez Vicario
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Do you reach a point in your career where you don't care who is in your draw, if the
seeds fall it doesn't matter, or do you still like to see that happen for the way to
clear? Does it matter to you? 
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: No, I think I just look at the opponent that I have to play. I
don't look even look at the draw. I always have been doing it that way and I am going to
continue to do it that way. So I don't know if -- until I go to play if I see the player
if it is not a seeded player, so I always been doing that way.  
 
Q. Like having there time like the way we have been talking especially for Gaby that it
is opening up, it makes no difference to you? 
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Well, even if the seeded players are not there, there are
other players, so it is just, you know, you have to play the player who is you know, keep
winning on your side of the draw and still is a dangerous player, so I don't think there
is a reason that only seeded players should be there. There have been some surprises in
both men's and women's and you have to play your best and win that match and keep going.  
 
Q. What do you think about your next round against Kimiko Date? 
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: She is a very dangerous player. She hits the ball really flat
and she loves to play on hard courts, so I play her before and I think I just have to play
the way I did today, be aggressive and be patient and hopefully you know, concentrate and
win that one. But it is going to be you know, a good match.  
 
Q. What would separate her from the top players? Mary Pierce was saying that all of the
top players in the women's game have a weapon, you know, whether it is your footwork and
determination and her groundstrokes, she said everybody has one thing that they depend on.
Do you think -- has Date developed a weapon yet? Is there something that she relies on
that is difficult? 
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: You have to ask her. I cannot answer that. I know the way she
plays and that is all I can --  
 
Q. Is she lacking a weapon? Is there something that separates her still from the top
players? 
 
 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: If she is there, she is a very good player, she has her
weapons. It is not that she is No. 5 in the world -- just give them the place to be there.
She will have her weapons so you have to ask her.  
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT