U.S. OPEN
August 31, 1994
Arantxa Sanchez Vicario
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Problems in the second set, Arantxa? 

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: I think I was controlling the match really well, and I started
to leave the ball a little short and she started playing well. She's a dangerous player,
and when she's in position, she can be real danger, and I think I was not as aggressive as
the beginning and that's why I have a little more trouble at the second set and I was up
5-1 tiebreaker, and I go for two shots and I miss a really easy and I complicate it and go
to 5-All. Then I have to make a good point to come back, but I think it's good because
that means that, you know, I have tough match and I handled it really well and I'm happy
with the play -- the way I played. 

Q. Is there a value in having a tough match or does it make it better for you later in
the tournament to have a tough match at this stage? 

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Yes, definitely. It's always better to have tough matches in
the beginning because then, you know, you're going to have more tough matches too, so if
you have it since the beginning, I think it's better because you can be into the match,
concentrate, and if you pass that, then you will be ready for the next ones. But I didn't
have easy 2-2 matches, but I'm glad the way I played because I control all the time. I
serve well, making good points and I'm happy with my condition in that match. 

Q. Was she an opponent that requires you to do a lot of different things, you had to
pass her, you had to go to the net -- 

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Like I say, she's a dangerous player because she can stay back
or she can come in really well and she hits the ball really well. So if you have the
control and you're moving her around and you are the one who's controlling and are
aggressive, she has more trouble, but when you let her play she can be dangerous like what
happened to me -- I was moving her all the time, then I started playing a little shorter
and she take advantage and I have a little trouble, but I think it was a very good match.
She was a dangerous player and I played very well when I needed to and I finished very
well. 

Q. Arantxa, looking back to last year and thinking where you are right now, what do you
have to do specifically for you to win this tournament differently than last year when you
faced Helena, are you facing this tournament in a different way, are you focused a
different way? 

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: It's different situation because last year I was not play as
good as I'm doing right now coming to this U.S. Open, and I have better this summer and I
have some good wins and I'm just approaching this tournament with my best, you know,
trying to play as good as I can and do my best. I always did pretty good, and I have to
keep playing the way I'm doing right now and see what happens, but that's all. 

Q. Is it very important to you to win a Grand Slam tournament away from claycourts? 

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Well, I think I'm not putting any pressure on myself. I just
think I'm taking this tournament, it's the last Grand Slam of the year, and it's hardcourt
and we'll see what happens. But I don't think I have to prove anything to be better player
if I win a Grand Slam on another surface, I think. I'm number two player in the world, I
won a lot of tournaments, I beat the number one player in the world, so I'm just doing the
right thing. So much better if I win another Grand Slam on another surface besides clay,
but taking it slowly one at a time and see what happens, if this year can be the year.
Because in other words, I will come back -- I have many more years to go, but I'm not
putting pressure on myself, I'm just concentrating all the time and do my best. 

Q. Spain has obviously the number two and three player in the world and if I have it
right, there isn't another Spanish player in the be top one hundred or something to that
effect. Can you comment on that? Why is that the situation? 

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: I think right now it's -- we had maybe four players who are
between 100 and 150, so it's getting better on the women's side, men's we have many more.
But maybe -- I don't know why we don't have as many women at men, but hopefully players
21, 22 are coming and they are doing well and hopefully we'll have much more success in
women's. But they can move -- they always looking the way I was doing in the beginning and
now they improve and now we having another Spanish player, ranked number three in the
world and hopefully we'll have more. 

Q. Did you have any Spanish women players to look up to when you were a junior? 

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Not Spanish, no. I look other players but not Spanish. 

Q. European or -- 

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: American. 

Q. American. Who were they? 

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Chris Evert and Martina, but not Spanish. 

Q. Why do you think it is then that yourself and Conchita were able to develop into top
five players when you didn't have those women role models in your own country? 

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Well, I think we -- you know, we take the -- just try to have
as good coaches as we can have to improve and, you know, each us. We have different -- I
have support from my family, myself, and I can look always what they do and they help me a
lot, and I always try to have the good coach to help me get better and then I work hard
and you just -- I really enjoy what I'm doing and that makes me going to the court,
knowing that I found this and I'm doing what I like. So it keeps me with motivation to
keep going and I'm so young that I have many more years to go. 

Q. Martina Navratilova was just elected as president of the WTA; what are your thoughts
on that, do you think it will be -- 

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: I think she knows a lot about tennis and probably, you know,
will be very good. Hopefully we can have new ideas and can be having better. But, you
know, I'm happy that she's there. 

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT