U.S. OPEN
August 29, 1994
Arantxa Sanchez Vicario
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Do you feel you are playing well? 

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Well, I am playing well. I think first match is always tough.
Normally, you know, new experience for me to play the first day because Steffi is always
the one that plays first. I think you are always not nervous but you always start the
tournament it is a very -- the beginning was a strange feeling but then I get into the
match and I start playing my own game and she is a dangerous player. I mean, she can come
to the net; hit very good volleys, and at the beginning I have some trouble to get into
the match. And finally, you know, I start thinking what I did wrong. And after 4-All, I
just start playing much better and finally, you know, my shots came in and I finished the
match. 

Q. Is it fair to say that you are as confident coming into the Open as you have ever
been having beating Steffi recently and -- 

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Well, I think I always had confidence, but maybe now I have
much better results on hard courts than I did in the past and I beat, like you say, Steffi
a couple of times. So I am coming stronger and playing better and definitely I have much
more confidence and that is helping me come to this tournament and, you know, going one by
one and see what happens. 

Q. What was the strange feeling at the start; was it the rain, the wait, or was it
starting a Grand Slam tournament; first match on stadium? 

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: That is what I say, starting the first match of the Grand
Slam. I mean, normally I always have to wait until Tuesday because Steffi is to play
Monday, so that is why I say. But at the beginning it cause me a little bit coming to the
Center Court again after a year, bigger stadium and a lot of wind on that court, so takes
me a while in getting to the -- into the match. And, you know, always first match is
tough, but always is very nice to play well and win. 

Q. There is so much talk about this tournament and New York City and how it is
different from the other major tournaments. How do you feel about New York, and how do you
like playing here with all the distractions? 

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Well, it is completely different because everybody is moving
around and so you are normally used to everybody sitting, and there is a lot of movement
going on on this court, so it takes you a while to getting concentrated and thinking,
"okay, this is happening." But I like the City. I like New York and that is part
of the tournament, so you just have to be ready. But definitely maybe it is the hardest
one to play on. 

Q. Does it take a couple of years to get accustomed to that? 

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: I don't say years. I think you have to be ready every year you
come because something new can come and can happen, so you have to be ready and that is
New York. I mean, you have to expect it to be like this and you have to just concentrate
and don't try affect you at all what is happening outside. 

Q. Martina recently said she thought it would be good for tennis if they went back to
the wooden rackets. 

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: She said that? 

Q. Yes. 

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Well, I don't know what to say. I think right now everybody is
playing, you know, with more power rackets, so I don't know what will happen if we will
have to come back and play with that racket. 

Q. Have you ever played with a wooden racket? 

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Yes, I did. 

Q. Until how old? 

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Until I was maybe 12. 

Q. Is there a huge -- would you be able to go back to the wooden racket right now? 

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Maybe you can go back but it will be a big difference because
you just do it for the power and the new ones, the graphite, and everything, so it will
make a lot of difference, but it would be a nice feeling to come back and remember good
times you have with that one. 

Q. What is your feeling about Graf right now, I mean, you played her, what, ten days
ago; then she didn't play at all this week. Is her injury a real question mark for the
rest of you? 

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: I mean, I don't know how bad her injury is because I didn't
talk to her, so she knows better than anybody. But I just think that she plays her best
because she is definitely, you know, been there playing very good tennis and I think she
is, you know, in very good shape and I don't know how big question mark is her injuries,
but playing, she is playing really well. I can tell you that because I have to play my
best to beat her in Canada. I think she is playing very well. 

Q. But she didn't play at all this week. She pulled out of that exhibition. Doesn't
that raise questions about -- 

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: She maybe want to have a rest; that is all. I think she is in
shape to play here. 

Q. Three different women have won the three different Grand Slams at this point. Given
that and if anybody is dominating lately it has been Steffi, but she is a little bit off
lately with her injury. Given all that, how wide open is this draw for anybody to win this
Grand Slam or. . . 

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: I think it makes more interesting because it makes all players
-- it is not only dominated by one like it was in the past. There are many other names.
Everyone is playing well. There is more competition. I think it is who plays the best and
who plays the best tennis is the one who will win the tournament, but I am just thinking
myself, you know, one by one because it is a very long week and Grand Slam, it is always
very long, so I just take it slowly one by one and see what happens. 

Q. It has been a long time 40 years or some ridiculous amount of time since four
different women have won the four different Grand Slams. What does that mean, if anything,
about this year? 

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: I think it is much interesting for women's tennis because
there are other players and that means that tennis is growing and it is the future, many
other players who play better and definitely is much more interesting to watch and makes,
you know, more competition and different winners, so it is better for the game, you know,
and not only winning everything by one person and it makes, you know -- it raises the
tennis; the level goes up and it is more interesting to watch. 

Q. Who is in the best position to win this draw? 

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: We will see. I don't know. We will have to wait and see. 

Q. Is there more pressure on you, Arantxa, with Monica not here; Martina not playing;
you are maybe trying to do things differently on the court -- there is such an image that
women's tennis is on the downside. Do you try to do something different; more animated out
there? 

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: No, I just think I am still the same person, maybe as a tennis
player I am growing and I try to improve and get better as a player, but I don't put any
pressure on myself because otherwise I am not here or try to do something here -- I just
think I am doing the right thing and I don't put, you know, any pressure on myself. I just
think that I am there and I am doing good job and I am trying to do my best always and it
is working really well so far. 

Q. You are the best in clay. Do you think that you can raise that image that you used
to have in the past, the best on one court? 

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Well, I think if I am where I am at right now I think I am not
only a specialist on clay because I won tournaments on hard court and I beat the best
player in the world, so I don't think that to be in the place where I am right now that I
am still only a clay court player. I think that change now, you know, I am a better player
and I can win on any different surface, that is why I am No. 2 in the world and I am doing
so well. I am glad not to be only clay court player. 

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT