FAMILY CIRCLE CUP
April 1, 1994
Arantxa Sanchez Vicario
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Arantxa, what happened there at the  end, I think she won like 19 out of the last 23  points of the match?  
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  I think that she played pretty good,  but I made more mistakes than the normal and I let  her have the chances to hit the ball well and come  into the match and win it.  I think that I have my  chances probably to come back in the first set and  I played really well in the second, and I tried to  keep going the same level, but my shot was not  working at all.  I think that I make too many  unforced errors and too many errors, and she is a  player who goes for the ball, goes for the shot,  and she did the right thing.  She hits hard and I  have to be very patient, but I was supposed to  play the same way second set.  I let her go into  the match.  I think that I make a lot of mistakes,  that's the reason why I lost.   
 

Q.  You sort of -- the same thing happened  in the second set, you got on a roll at the end of  the second set.  How did you feel after that; did  you feel like you had a lot of momentum going into  the third set?  
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Yeah, I was not tired at all.  I just  thought that I have to keep going and the match  can be changed and I played well.  I did the right  thing.  I attacked the ball and I hit very good  shots.  That is what I am supposed to do since the  beginning, but I didn't do the right thing until I  was down a set.  Then the third set, I have some  chances in the 1-All, I was Love-30 and a couple  of breakpoints, then I lost that game and she  broke me.  And then 3-1, she just goes for the  shot and made it really good.  She played a great  match, but I just think that I made more mistakes  than the normal, that is why I lost.   
 

Q.  Was there anything physically wrong  with you?  You didn't seem to be moving as well in  the third set.  
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  I think that I was going to the ball,  but I was not -- especially one side, I was not as  good as I could, especially on my forehand.  My  foot was bad, but that is not the reason I lost.  I think you were right, I was not getting as good  as normally as getting to the ball, but I was not  in position to hit the ball, so I have to hit it  back and when you hit the ball short, she just  goes for the ball and hit winners.  And I just  think that I didn't play deep enough in the third  set like I did on the second, and that is why I  lost.   
 

Q.  Did you look past this match at all to  the semis and finals; were you looking there or  were you really focused on this match?  
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  No, I was focused every match I play.  I never look ahead before I have to play a match.  I always say that I have to go one by one because  that is what I always did since I start playing  tennis, and definitely, I was just concentrate  first for this match and I tried my best, but  seems that I didn't play my best and I lost the  match.   
 

Q.  Is it anymore disappointing since you  were the No. 1 seed to lose this match, than say  if you had just been No. 2 or No. 3 seed?  
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  It is always-- you are a little  disappointed because you always want to try your  -- play your best, and I just only did it, you  know, a couple of games, and during the second set  and a little bit in the third set, and normally,  you know, on clay I would not make so many  mistakes that I did today.  You are always  normally a little bit disappointed because I lost  the match, but I learned a couple of things for  next time, and I hope it will not happen again.   
 

Q.  Can you tell the difference in the way  she is playing?  She had a big week in Virginia  Slims, then she had lost to -- I think, she lost  to you, then she had some good wins here.  Is  there a difference in the way she is playing now  to say back to the Virginia Slims?  
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  No, she is playing exactly the same.  You know, she is going to go for the shots; hits  the ball really hard and she is just taking her  risk, if she making mistake, or lose a point,  doesn't matter; next time she is going to do it  again.  It was indoors, same thing in the Virginia  Slims.  Here, the ball bounces a little bit higher  so she has a better chance of hitting it better.  She is playing exactly the same game.  That is the  way she plays.   
 

Q.  Does she hit as hard as Seles or Graf  or harder?  
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  No, she hits hard, but I think you  know, if she is not in position, she has more  trouble than hitting hard.  The ball is short and  she hits hard.  Everybody hits really well, the  ball, when it is -- you don't have to move.  So I  don't think she hits as hard as Graf or Seles.   
 

Q.  Arantxa, often she would hit a good  shot; you would answer and get the point; she was  getting frustrated, but she was bouncing back.  Did you find her to be calmer than she used to be  a year ago?  Do you see a difference that way in  her emotional game?  
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  No, I just think that, you know, it  doesn't matter if she makes a point or lose a  point, she is always the same attitude.  I don't  think that I look that way.  I just try to  concentrate my own game.  I don't look the other  opponent and I don't know what she was doing, if  she was -- I just tried to concentrate and you  know, tried to do something different, but nothing  worked at all today, so I just think that she -- I  have to give credit to her because she played a  great match but I was hoping to play better than I  did today.   
 

Q.  Give her a strong chance to win the  whole tournament?  
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  To her?   
 

Q.  Yes.  
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Who knows?  It is hard to say.  I am  not in the tournament anymore, so I don't care who  is going to win now.  Sorry.   
 

Q.  Arantxa there was controversy with the  local umpires being replaced this year with better  quality.  Seems like there is a lot more  complaints.  Did you notice anything about the  officiating this year?  Was it okay?  Were there  more calls?  
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  You know, it is always close calls and  this is the only surface you can check the mark  because, for sure, the ball is bouncing and you  can see the mark, but I just think that it has  been pretty good.  They have been great and  nothing that I have to complain about it.  I just  think that they do a good job and it has been much   
 

Q.  Do you think you had a mental let-down  just because so many of the top players like  Martina and Gaby were upset earlier in the week;  did that affect you at all not being able to play  those top players?  
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  No, I know that there were not that  many seeds left in the tournament, but I didn't  put any pressure on myself.  I knew that I didn't  have easy draw; that I have matches; I just tried  to concentrate and played my best, but seems like  today I was not in good shape as I was in all the  matches and, you know, I lost the match, but I  think there is more tournaments to go.  I am  focused on the French Open.  This is like a  warmup.  I had could have some other good  tournaments before I get there and get ready for  that one.   
 

Q.  Was your foot hurting?  
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Sometimes, but I try not to think about  it.  I tape it.  When I was moving; especially to  the right, to my forehand, it was hurting me a  little bit, but that was not the excuse to lose  the match, but it was bothering me a little bit.   
 

Q.  Your right foot?  
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Yeah, but she played a good match, that  is the point.   
 

Q.  What is your program now, where are you  going?  
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  I have to go to Amelia and then I go  home and I played Barcelona.   
 

Q.  Italy?  
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  No.  French.    
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT