FAMILY CIRCLE CUP
March 31, 1994
Arantxa Sanchez Vicario
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Arantxa, what was the first set like,  an hour and 23 minutes for the first set?  

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  I think that I know I have to be really  patient because she is a very consistent player  and she hits the ball back; it doesn't matter  which side on the court, she always hits back.  I  think that I have a chance to finish it up.  I was  5-3 up and I tried to go too much for the point  and win the point too quickly.  I make some  mistakes and allowed her to come back into the  match again.  That is why we kept hitting longer  sets, but I knew it after 5-All, the game went--  6-5 I went up; the way I played, I knew if I had  kept playing that way and I win the first set, the  match is in my hands.  That is what happened.  The first set, I was very  consistent, very patient.  It was long rallies and  I just waited until I have a short ball and hit my  backhand winner and tried to go a little bit more  to the net.  It was not an easy match.  It was a  completely different match than the first one that  I had and I'm glad that I played a great match,  and it gives me confidence to go to the next  match.  


Q.  After the tiebreak, how much confidence  did you get?  

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  The tiebreaker?  


Q.  After the tiebreaker.  

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, it is a big difference when you  win the first set than when you have to come back,  but even if I would lose the first set, I knew  that if I would keep playing the same way as I  did, you know, I would still have a chance to do  well and come back.  And I'm glad that I go a  little bit more for the shots in the tiebreaker.  I won the first set and after that I just go, you  know, easy in the second set and just keep playing  really well.  


Q.  Do you think the tiebreaker deflated  her a little bit, did you feel that coming from  the other side?  

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  It was very close points, and I think  that we both went for the shots more and I just --  I think that, you know, 5-4, she make very easy  mistake, forehand and down into the net and give  me chances to finish it up, the set, but  definitely.  I just -- I concentrated really well  and I played very good important points, and I am  glad because it was not an easy match and I hang  in there very good and I won the match.  


Q.  Did you sense at the beginning of the  second set she was upset that she let that first  set go?  

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  You can see her -- she was upset, of  course.  You can see her that she was wanted to  try to win the point more faster than the first  set.  I knew that she was really, you know, not  concentrated as much, so I just tried to go in  front and win the first couple of games of the  second set, and that is I went up 4-Love; then I  lost my serve, but I knew that I was very strong  mentally and I played really good the important  points; that is why I won.  


Q.  I think the third game of the second  set you had three breakpoints against you; you  managed to win that game.  Was that a big game  there?  

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Yeah, because it is a big difference  when you go in the set 3-Love up than when you are  2-1, because you let her come back into the  match.  I served really well that game, and I  think that, you know, mentally I was very strong  and I played good points when I needed to play and  I was up, you know, in front of her all the time  and she was not having so many chances like in the  beginning of the first set.  


Q.  What is it like for you to play  somebody who plays sort of just like you, gets a  lot of balls back and things like that?  

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Yeah, I think that-- like I said she is  very consist, strength player.  She hits the ball  back and she runs also pretty good, so I knew  sometimes that even if I make a good shot I have  to be ready because the ball can come back, and  she had very similar game as I do, but I think  that I played really good important points, I went  more for the shots and I was concentrated really  good, very strong, and that makes the difference  why I won.  


Q.  Did you hurt your ankle at one point  and is it going to affect you afterwards?  

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  I get scared because I hit the ball  back and I run for the other ball and I don't  know, my foot, you know, I went you know, the  other side and I thought that I sprained it, and I  wanted to try to run back and I did again, so I  was a little bit worried because normally I tape  it, but on clay, I thought, well, it is not so  important and I sprained it two times last year,  so I was a little bit worried, but it was nothing  and I just tried to concentrate and don't think  about it.  At that point I was a little bit  worried because you know, it was really scary.  


Q.  A tough match - how much confidence  will this give you for the weekend and crunch  time?  

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  It always gives you greater confidence  because having a tough match, round 16, going to  the quarters; having winning this kind of match,  it is always, you know, depends which player you  play, you are going to have a different game, but  it is always a great feeling because mentally  means that I am very strong and I have confidence  in myself and I can go more to the shots and play  good important points; especially the breakpoints,  so it is always great and when you are going into  the tournament, the matches are getting tougher  and tougher, but if I handle it really good this  one, I think that I can keep going as good as I  did today.  


Q.  Arantxa, when was it that you hurt your  ankle?  

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  During tiebreaker?  


Q.  11th game of the first set.  

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Second set, right after --  


Q.  No, first set.  

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  First set?  I don't know exactly, I  have no idea,.  


Q.  It was late in the first set then?  

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Yeah.  It was like almost 5-All.  


Q.  Amanda beat you in Japan and did you  think about that going in today?  

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  I know she beat me there, but every  match is different.  It is different surface, with  different conditions.  I was really tired after  U.S. Open and I went to play that tournament, I  was really tired and I couldn't run as good as I  did today, so she is very tough and if you are not  in good condition, you cannot win; that is why I  lost.  Today was completely different.  I am  playing better.  It is a different surface.  It is  clay.  You have to be more patient and definitely,  mentally, I was very strong, you know, and I think  that that was the key to win and also I was very  fast.  I am moving really well.  I hit very good  shots when I needed.  


Q.  Is there a feeling that this is your  week; everything seems to be going-- you cruise to  the second set; do you feel good; that this is  your turn at the FAMILY CIRCLE?  

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, I don't put any pressure on  myself.  I am just going to go one by one.  I  always -- I am looking that way during all the  tournaments and I think, you know, having  confidence in myself and I am playing really good  at the moment, so that is the most important thing  to keep going in the tournament and I am not going  to give up.  I am just going to give my best; play  the way I did today and try to see if I can win  here for the first time, but going slowly one by  one.  


Q.  Any difference being the top seed, as  compared to other years when you were like seeded  number 2 or No. 3?  

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  It is a great feeling because normally  I always been second seed in every tournament.  Now I am the first seed, but I think that it will  be even better when all the top players will be  here, because I am a-- it is a little bit unlucky  that Steffi is not here, but it is always great  when you are the first seed and everybody is  picking you the favorite to win and having the  support of the crowd is always really good, but I  am going to go one by one concentrate and play my  best see what happens.  


Q.  Thank you.   

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT