US OPEN
August 29, 2001
Arantxa Sanchez Vicario
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Questions for Arantxa.  
 
 
Q.  Was it an easy match for you? 
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO:  Well, I think Ai is a very difficult player.  I think I played very good today and I didn't let her come into the match too much.  I move her, you know, very well so she has more trouble.  But if you let her play, she can become a very, you know, difficult player.  I'm very happy the way I play because everything work out very well for me.  
 
Q.  Were you affected by the schedule change, court change?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO:  No, not really.  After seeing how the other court was going, was going too slow, I knew that probably they would change the court.  We didn't know if we going to play one of the biggest courts or outside.  I think we both were ready.  We just didn't have too much time.  I was just trying to be concentrate.  As a matter of fact, we don't have to wait any longer, so it was  -- you just have to be ready. 
 
Q.  How much time did you have from the time you were informed of the change till the start?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO:  They inform us after the first match was over, the men's, went to five sets, because they have a night match session on our court.  The other stadium, too, was going fast, that after Hingis we were probably going to play.  They tell us in advance.  We were having a long time enough to get ready.  Probably in case of waiting for fourth match, we just went to the other court.  
 
Q.  Knowing you're not going to come back here in November for the Madison Square Garden tournament, is there anything special you're doing in New York because you know you're not going to come back?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO:  It is going to be different because we so used to come two times a year to New York.  It's different.  Now it's summertime.  When we come is the wintertime.  I'm just concentrate now for The Open.  Definitely it's going to be new to go and play the Masters in another place for the first time.  I mean, actually for me is better because I'm going to be in Europe.  Definitely you going to miss the Madison Square Garden, the atmosphere, coming back again to New York.  I try enjoy as much as I can New York now.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT