VIRGINIA SLIMS CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 16, 1993
Arantxa Sanchez Vicario
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Arantxa, talk about winning tonight. 

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, I think that it was a very good match, you know, the match I played against Helena in the U.S. Open helped me to know the way I have to play tonight and I just think that I was, you know, concentrate and I just had to go as many times I can to the net and win a lot of points and she was on pressure and she plays really well the net, but when she has to move the baseline, it's when she makes more errors, so I think I put alot of pressure and, you know, I have my chances in couple games to broke her serves, but until 5-All, that game was real important and I broke her serve and after that, I just kept playing as well and I was just feeling that, you know, the match was in my hands and I just kept playing as good as the beginning. 


Q.  You've had problems playing your doubles partner this year that the is the third time -- 

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Fourth time. 


Q.  Fourth time? 

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, we're 2-All, so it's not bad, so I think it's been different surface and it's been every match is different, so, I just think that when you lose a match it can help you to go to the next one.  And last two times I lost against her I learned, you know, good things, so I just thought that today the third time I was not going to be the same, and I was really happy.  I played really concentrate and that was the important thing, I won. 


Q.  What did you learn those times that you were able to apply tonight? 

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Like I say, I let her come to the net a lot of times, today I just serve and volley a couple times and I just have to go to the net.  I made some easy mistakes with the volley, but at least I tried something different from the last time and it works really well and I know that's the way I have to play and work out really well and I very happy to go through and pass this match and go to the next one. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT