U.S. OPEN
September 12, 1993
Arantxa Sanchez Vicario
Helena Sukova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You guys-- does this take a little sting away from the both of you, a little bit of disappointment from yesterday and from a couple of days ago?

HELENA SUKOVA:  What was yesterday?


Q. So have you enjoyed your trip to New York?  Do you think you will come back?

HELENA SUKOVA:  Well, I might.  I think I didn't have -- it was pretty good two weeks.  I have to say I enjoyed it.  Even somebody told me, well, you can't complain.  I mean, you played three even, so you shouldn't be complaining about the schedule because that is the way it goes.  But I am happy I have been like this.  It was disappointing yesterday, but Steffi just played better and I am very happy that we have been able to win this one.

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  2 out of 3.  So what do you want?

HELENA SUKOVA:  It was good.  Also, I think I should thank Arantxa that we let me be her partner for mixed Sanchez; I let you win mixed too.


Q. Is it hard to come out and play doubles after losing the final yesterday?

HELENA SUKOVA:  No, I mean, after all these years you are used to it.  You win some; you lose some.  Every match is different and every match you have another chance, so you always try to do the best in the next match.  Even I lost the singles, when Arantxa lost her singles, you just try to do the best for your doubles.


Q. Was it sweeter upsetting the Slam yesterday than it was even winning today?

HELENA SUKOVA:  It is different.  I think today it is great because we won the Grand Slam tournament and so it is a big thing, so nothing can really -- nothing you can compare to that.  It was very good for us that we made a comeback after that first set and they are the best pair on the tour, but still can be better than winning the Grand Slam.


Q. Would you just talk a little bit about why you two play so well together; what was working for you?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, I think that we communicate really well and we always talk every point and we help each other, a lot of times. Even we have, you know, we miss a shot.  We come back and play the next one.  I think that we are playing now for almost 2 1/2 years together and we are a good team and you know, we are tough and we almost beat all the good other players, so the important thing is that we have a good communication, that is important for doubles, I think.


Q. How did you originally start teaming up together?

HELENA SUKOVA:  We met in the elevator at the U N. Plaza.  I asked her if she would like to try for the next year.  She said why, why not.  We tried it in Australia.  This is like 2 1/2 years ago.  We won in Sydney, our first tournament. Then we thought it was so bad so we should try it again.  So we have been playing together since.


Q. Was that like the day you split; day after you split with Jana?

HELENA SUKOVA:  Yes.


Q. The very next day?

HELENA SUKOVA:  Yes.

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  I was surprised.


Q. Fortuitous elevator ride?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Took me by surprise, but I think --


Q. Were you going up or down?

A. Up.  Always up.


Q. The two of you come from two of the more important families in European tennis.  How important has family been to your careers?  Is it an important factor that you have all that support?

HELENA SUKOVA:  I would say for me it was very important at the beginning because it helped my to get into the tennis to be taught the right way to play and in my juniors they helped me a lot.  Then it was a little disadvantages because all the people, all the other players they were jealous of me so they were starting to say rumors and that kind of stuff.  It wasn't helping.  So -- then it was kind of putting more pressure on me than help for me to be from a big tennis family. But of course, for sure, at the beginning, it was a big help.

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  In my case, I am the youngest of the family, so it helps me a lot having all my brothers playing tennis; always having the support of my family.  I still have it even when I need it and I think that they always say since I was very young that I was the most talented, so I am happy that my brothers say that, but it is nice to have always the support and I think it is great.  I never had you know, any troubles or any problems.  I always have, you know, good support and I think that you know, the people like a lot to me in Spain because they want me to win almost everything, but I always try my best, but definitely you know, family has been very important to me.


Q. The next tournaments, where are you going to play together?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Big question.  We don't know yet.

HELENA SUKOVA:  That is on our agenda that we are going to talk about it when we get -- go away from this room.  So we haven't had a chance to talk about it because I was most of the time on the court playing all my matches and Arantxa didn't have time to come after me there.


Q. Helena, are you tired?

HELENA SUKOVA:  I think so.


Q. Close to 400,000 for two weeks.  How are you going to spend all the money?

HELENA SUKOVA:  I have been always playing for the victories, so the money doesn't matter to me.  I was a little bit disappointed when I beat Arantxa I was so happy to be in the finals and friend of mine came to me; first thing he said, well, you won all this money.  It just makes you feel a bit sad that all the people think about is the money.  Because the money didn't mean anything to me.  I have enough of it and I don't need so much of it.  It is the victory which means a lot to me.


Q. How do you propose to celebrate the occasion?

HELENA SUKOVA:  I am flying back home.

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  I stay.  But, no, I am leaving-- I leave Tuesday, so when I go back I will celebrate there with my family.


Q. What time is your flight?

HELENA SUKOVA:  6:30.


Q. To Frankfurt?

HELENA SUKOVA:  Yes.   


End of FastScripts....


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT