U.S. OPEN
September 10, 1993
Arantxa Sanchez Vicario
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Arantxa, I would imagine you are personally disappointed also, but are you at all happy for Helena, your doubles partner?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, I think that she played a really good match.  I had my chances.  I didn't take it. That is why I lost.  So that is the reason.  She played-- you know, pretty good all the match and she beat me.  She is a dangerous player and, you know, especially I don't think today was my best day.  I have a lot of unforced errors.  She played well.  So I am happy for her that she is in the final.  One or the other has to win.  You know, it is bad luck that I could not go into the final, but anyway I have a good tournament and she is in the final. 
 

Q. Did you think at some point that she would collapse?  Did you think that she would fall apart?  Were you sort of waiting for that to happen?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, I thought and expected that she can also miss more shots than normal, like maybe, you know, make some doublefaults or miss some volleys that normally she never miss, but I think that I had my chances, like I say; didn't take it.  It was not my best day, especially I hit a lot of balls with the frame and very -- a lot of balls went very long.  She played well.  I have to congratulate her because she played a good match. That is why she beat me. 
 

Q. Arantxa, playing only three games in the quarter finals against Zvereva, did that hurt you today?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Like I say, it was better than if I play the whole match, because it could help me to play and have a good match and come back for the semifinals.  Maybe, you know, probably it affect me a little bit that I didn't play that day.  But anyway, it was a different match against Helena. You know, I didn't have the same feeling that I had when I play Zvereva, only three games than what I play today.  I think I have many more errors than normally I don't make, but she played a good match.  That is why she won. 
 

Q. What about the rain delay, how did that affect you?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  No, I think that it was happening here. It has been happening the last few days that you have to wait and you don't know when you are going to play, but I think that didn't affect me at all.  I just wait and I think probably, you know, normally, I don't miss so many passing shots, but today, normally make shot for my best game.  It didn't work at all today.  I have to try to go to the net.  Little bit unlucky, I missed some volley at the top of the net.  But she played better than me that is why she won the match. 
 

Q. Any reason that you can think of that you didn't play as well.  I mean, you normally look very fighting and everything or is it something she did; anything --
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  I think she played like normally like she always does.  Comes to the net every shot. She is a serve and volley player.  I just think I wasn't exactly the player that I am normally, I am playing.  I think -- I didn't have very good day but she played much better so that is why she won.  I have more errors than normally.  It caused me a lot of points. 
 

Q. Can you talk about your year?  You won a number of titles but you didn't reach any Grand Slam titles.  Are you sort of disappointed ---
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  No. 
 

Q. -- Even though you have been No. 2 you really couldn't get there?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  No, I am not disappointed at all.  I think it is great to be No. 2.  I have a great year and I try my best and you know, I didn't have a great you know, matches, that you know, especially Grand Slams tournaments, but anyway, I am not disappointed at all.  I think that it is great.  My dream come real to be No. 2 in the world.  I am very happy.  I cannot be disappointed at all.  I am happy.  I have many more years to play more U.S. Open, especially Helena has a lot you know, very good experience she has been playing a lot.  She is older than me, but I am not disappointed at all.  I will come back next year and see you know next year can be the one, but no, I am just not -- now I am thinking about doubles. I am in the semifinals, but you know, I will learn something from this match could help me for the next one. 
 

Q. Just one thing on doubles.  You are playing tomorrow morning; is that right?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, we play after she -- first of all, she plays the final.  Then she will have a break and after that we will play doubles. 
 

Q. This was obviously an important match, this semifinal for the both of you.  How will it affect you tomorrow when you go onto the court together now as a team; do you have to talk about the match that you played together, singles, before you go out and play doubles?  How do you address that?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  I think that tomorrow is going to be another day.  You know, a lot of things can change.  I am just going to concentrate now; talk with Helena and thinking you know, to win the doubles, because I think that the pressure is on Zvereva and Fernandez because they try to win the Grand Slam and we beat them in Los Angeles couple of weeks ago so we are going to talk and you know, it is completely different.  Singles you play by yourself.  Doubles you need communication with your partner.  I will talk with Helena and it is different day so we will try to concentrate to win that doubles.  That is what we want.  For sure the more she wins, the better for her and for me. 
 

Q. Thank you.       


End of FastScripts....
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT