U.S. OPEN
September 8, 1993
Arantxa Sanchez Vicario
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Supposedly the flu?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  I hope she doesn't give it to me.


Q. Are you sweating at all?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, I sweat because I went before the match having a good warm-up on grandstand, so I was sweating a little bit.  I didn't have enough time to sweat more during the match.  But I think that I was waiting, you know, very long today to play, especially with the rain, was hard.  I was very patient and I read so many magazines, two books, so I am going to read more.  I was just waiting to play.  I was real excited to play tonight.  I knew maybe I have to wait very long to play night match.  I was ready, so I think that at least I have time to play three games pretty good, but I didn't expect that she was going to default, especially after waiting so long and going to the match.  So I was a little bit surprised.  Anyway, now I finish; I can go.


Q. Did you see anything in her at all that indicated that she was in distress?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  No, because I didn't ---I see her only in the morning.  I was just waiting in the locker room reading and listening to music, for it to stop raining, so didn't see her at all before the match when she say that.


Q. Nothing on court, you saw?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  No, I think she was playing the way she played during all the tournament, and it is hard to say because we only play three games, anyway. I didn't feel anything that she was not, you know, available to play.


Q. What did she say to you when she shook hands?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  She said, sorry, but I don't feel well; so I am retiring.  That is everything she say.


Q. Would you have rather played a full match than just playing a couple of games?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Definitely.  I think that especially you know, waiting so long today, I wanted to play, you know, at least a match to having a good warm-up and good match and if I was winning, you know, come back for semifinals, playing a match, I think that we could not, you know, possible play a whole match, but anyway I have the day off tomorrow, so I could have a good practice and be ready and have a good hit before the semifinals match.


Q. Will this hurt you on Friday, do you think?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Who?  Me?  I think so -- I don't know --

RICHARD FINN:  No.  Do you think this will hinder you, hurt you, that you didn't play today?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  No.  No.  I don't think -- not at all. I think that I am probably, you know, that I say I have one day off, so I could have a good warm-up there, good practice, so it will not affect me at all.


Q. Have you ever retired from a match?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Once.  Because I sprained my ankle, my ligaments in my left -- but that is the only one four years ago.


Q. Can you imagine yourself pulling out of a tournament like this?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  I didn't suspect this was going to happen today.  Especially, you know, both waiting for playing and we both, you know, expecting to play, so I didn't thought that it was going to happen tonight, and I prefer to play a match, but could not be possible at all, but, anyway, I get into the semifinals; I am happy.


Q. If you were in her shoes, can you imagine yourself pulling out of a match of this importance?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  If I was not -- if I would be in her position I would probably be not defaulted at all.  I would try, and if it is really, really bad, then you defaulted.  I don't know how she feels.  You have to ask her, but especially getting to that quarterfinals, probably you try to do your best; see if you can win.


Q. Did you ever play a match when you were on the verge of defaulting, like you felt so sick or you had something wrong with you?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Yes.


Q. Can you recall one like that?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Yes.  I play - I sprain my ankle two times in Amelia Island this year; anyway, I didn't default.  I kept playing and I won the tournament.  I never defaulted.


Q. Has anyone ever defaulted against you this early like that?  Is this the first time you have ever seen that?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Yeah, first time.  Sometimes they defaulted at the beginning of the tournament, but not beginning so close to the quarterfinals or semifinals.  It is the first time.


Q. Would it have been more shocking if she were up 3-Love and defaulted instead of down 3-0?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  I am not in her position.  I am in the other position.  I would probably continue, so, I don't know.


Q. Arantxa, is it a huge let-down for you or are you like, hey, great, boom, I go through, because I know you must gear up for every match; I mean, mentally?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, I think that I was ready, like I said, the first three games really concentrated. I was on the match.  I wanted to play longer. Anyway, I think not many times you have this kind of, you know, matches that they defaulted, so in kind of a way, you -- now I can go home and relax and think about semifinals, but like I say I prefer to have a good match, anyway.  I cannot do anything, I mean, I am happy and now I hope next one, you know, I can play well.  But I think this will not affect me at all.


Q. Arantxa, you know the English word'' "tank,"  obviously, do you think she tanked?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  I don't know.  I cannot say.  I don't know.  It is hard to -- I don't know.  I could not say.


Q. Arantxa, what time did you get here today and were you on site all day?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  I get here 10:30.  I hit for 40 minutes, so I was waiting I have something to eat because I thought I was going to probably play.  I knew that they were not going to cancel me so I just wait here in the locker room and listen to music.  I listened to 3 tapes.  I read - I don't know - 8 magazines, two books, so I could not read anymore.  My eyes were tired and my hearing was going, so much music.  Anyway I was having a lot of patience.  I think that is a long time to wait, almost eight hours to play three games, but anyway, I was you know, very patient and calm because I knew anyway I was going to play very late, if it stops raining, so was into the match really well.  I am happy at least I played three games and pretty good.  Now I can concentrate for the next one.  It is hard, definitely.  It is, you know, you expecting to play more, like this-- your body is in a little bit good shape.


Q. You read two books.  What books did you read?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  The Other Side of Midnight, and Memory -- Memories, something like that.  Two books of Sidney Sheldon.  So I finish them up.  So I don't have any  more to read.  I have to buy new ones.


Q. What kind of music were you listening to?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Bruce Springsteen and Phil Collins. Then I listened to Spanish music, too.  After that, I change the tape because I was tired of that one.


Q. Were you drained physically from just waiting?  Did you feel you know --

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, I do a lot of -- I do a lot of stretching, you know, waiting.  And physically I feel, you know, very good.  I went for a walk outside, and I move, you know, my body couple of times to be, you know, warm, and don't be sitting all the time.  So I was ready to play the match. Especially I wanted to play really, you know, a lot of good match tonight.  I was ready, since the first three games.  And I was really warm and I feel pretty good even waiting so long.  I prepared really well.  So that makes me feel better going to the match.


Q. Considering you waited around 8 and a half hours and then what happened tonight, is this about the strangest day you have had in tennis?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Definitely.  I never waited so long, waiting to play a match -- well, actually last year too, I have to wait - I don't know - 6 hours, tonight I waited 8 to play a match.  I only played three games, but it is the second time, you know, that -- this has been - happened to wait so long to play a match.  Probably this year I was more ready than last year and I was, you know, I was feeling much better.  I was ready more ready.


End of FastScripts....


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT