U.S. OPEN
September 6, 1993
Arantxa Sanchez Vicario
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Was it easier today than you thought or about the same, about what you expected today?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  I thought that it can be like today.  I think that if I started really well since the beginning and I put pressure on her, she makes more mistakes and for her it is more difficult because she has to do something different.  I thought that the match could be like, you know, the scores been today.  I played really well.  I have to do a lot of passing shots and I feel very comfortable out there.  I put a lot of pressure on her.  I think I am very happy with the way I played. 
 

Q. Do you enjoy this tournament?  Do you like this tournament?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Of course, I do.  I think that every year I have been doing better and especially last year I got to the final.  And this year I am playing better than last year and come back and playing on center court here it is very special. I feel like the people like me and I have the support of the crowd; not being American, but anyway I feel very comfortable and, yes, of course, I like this tournament. 
 

Q. In what ways do you think you are playing better than last year?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, I am serving much better.  I put more pressure on the players.  I go more to the net and so they are the ones that have to make the points, you know, and I am much more aggressive. I don't have to run as much as last year when I have to hit the ball back.  Now I can be more aggressive and change the way I am playing a little bit.  And put more pressure on the other players. 
 

Q. How do you feel about the way Graf is playing, would you say that she has been dominating at all?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  I don't see her play yet.  I mean, I concentrate for my matches, but I think that she is No. 1 because she won almost all the tournaments that she played and she had a lot of confidence and, I don't talk much about the way she plays because she can tell you better than me. 
 

Q. Is that discouraging, how many tournaments she has won this year?  Is that discouraging to the other players?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  She won the Grand Slams and they were the most important ones and then she also won, you know, couple of other tournaments.  I mean, at the moment she is playing pretty good and she has confidence.  That is why she is No. 1.  But I think that, you know, you can -- if you play really well, you can beat her. 
 

Q. There is a good chance that you could be playing Martina in the semifinals.  Could you take us back to a couple of weeks ago, you played her in a final in Los Angeles, lost on similar court, can you talk about that?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  First of all, I have to play another match and she has to, too.  If we both win and we get in that semifinals, I learn, you know, good things from the matches that I played her in the final.  I was up in both sets and I played really well and -- but finally, you know, wanted to win the point very fast and I make some errors and that is why she beat me.  But I know if I have to play Martina what I have to do and I am feeling very good and tomorrow, you know, I will think about the match tomorrow when I get there, then play against Martina.  But I think that I am playing better now than I did three weeks ago when I played her. 
 

Q. She said during a tournament that she thought that despite your ranking that she was the second best player in the world playing now.  When you went into the final, did you feel under any different type of pressure?  Did that upset you?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  No.  No way.  I think that if I am No. 3 because I deserve to be there.  My results, you know, I win couple of tournaments with the other players.  She is behind me, so she can say, you know, she can -- maybe she is not agreed, but she has now to win three more matches too if she want to be where I am right now. 
 

Q. What do you think makes her tough for you?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  I think she plays different game than the other players.  She is coming all the time to the net and we all know that she serve and volley so she puts a lot of pressure on you.  But anyway, I think you have to be really patient and you also have to be aggressive to beat her.  I mean, they will never come all the time.  You also have to go also to the net so she is in trouble so she can not play always in easy game. 
 

Q. What is your favorite part about tennis?  What gives you the most joy?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  About my -- 
 

Q. About being a tennis star?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  I enjoy it.  I am having fun when I play and I know that I am working, you know, the good way to come, you know, and moving up in the ranking.  But the most important thing is I enjoy it and I am having fun on the court.  So that makes me play even better, I think. 
 

Q. You get Zvereva in the next match, you have beaten her all except one time, I think, for an injury.  Can you tell us about her style of play and whether you consider her dangerous?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  She is very talented player and has very good hands.  She is a player who likes -- she is a very good doubles player.  She has a good volley.  I think I am just going to play the same tennis that I did today; be confident, play my own game and be aggressive and put pressure on her.  I think that she has very good slice backhand and she likes to come to the net.  I give her most of the time- - I think that I just have to concentrate, you know, play like I did today and I think that I have chances to win that game, that match tomorrow. 
 

Q. Did Javier stay around to watch you?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Emilio left.  But Javier is still here. He is still in doubles so he watched me play today.   
 

End of FastScripts....
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT