US OPEN
August 27, 2001
Arantxa Sanchez Vicario
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Questions for Arantxa. 
 

Q.  Are you satisfied with the way you played today?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO:  Well, I know I can play better.  Definitely was a very strange match.  I should have win it in three when I was serving at 5-3.  Things turn around.  I try not to get upset.  She was playing, you know, very good.  I guess is when is done is when I start playing better.  I'm glad to pull it out.  How the match went, is kind of difficult.  The first one is always the toughest one.
 

Q.  The 32 seeds, are you in favor of that?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO:  Well, I really don't mind.  Even how was before, how is now, is not very big difference.  Maybe before you have a tough first round.  You still have a tough first round because everybody is playing well.  The game is improved.  Not making a big difference.  Maybe you will not have it in the first round, but you'll have it maybe in the third round.  As a matter of fact, you have to play every match.  That's how I look at it.
 

Q.  Do you have any special feelings when you come into New  York City and play here, compared to Wimbledon, Roland Garros or Australia?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO:  Is the last Grand Slam of the year.  I always come with a good feelings.  I mean, I always done very well here.  I won it.  So it is a different atmosphere.  It is great.  I enjoy the crowds.  Really today helped me a lot.  When I was behind, they really support me.  Definitely I like this tournament a lot.  I look forward.  Is my 15 or 16 year.  I don't keep track anymore (laughter).  Definitely I like it a lot here in New York and I like the fans. 
 

Q.  With the expanded seedings, were you relieved that you were seeded at all?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO:  No.  I mean, he asked me the same question.  As I say, is not any more easy matches, so doesn't matter if you are going to be seeded 16, you going to be 32.  Doesn't make big difference.  I'm not relieved.  You always have to be ready.  Doesn't matter.  I really don't think about that. 
 

Q.  You played on the Stadium Court.  Today you were on the outer courts.  Talk about what it's like to play when fans are so close.

ARANTXA SANCHEZ-VICARIO:  Obviously, as you say, I always been playing on the big courts.  Obviously, not being American, I know I'm not going to be in the top courts.  But as you said, it is different.  You have to get used to it.  But I like the atmosphere of Court 11.  As you said, the fans were closer.  They really helped me a lot today.  I definitely feel very support.  I was just trying to win the match, and that's what I did.  I'm glad to pass to the next round.  Maybe I'll have a chance to play another time on the other one. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT