U.S. OPEN
September 12, 1992
Arantxa Sanchez Vicario
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.   How do you think you played today? 
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, I think that at the beginning I was a little bit-- maybe a little nervous, because I don't know, it's a Grand Slam final and maybe I wanted to try to win the point very quick and make a lot of mistakes, and the first five games they gone very quick, but after that, I realized that what I was doing wrong and I start playing better, and then I won three games; then I have some opportunities to go 5-4, and I miss a very easy volley that give me advantage and I think that in the second set, I continue play, but maybe I wanted to try to be; trying to win the point very fast and make more errors.  I think she played really well, and she didn't miss much, but I think I miss more today than the other matches, but I feel that I came back playing pretty good, and she played better than me and she won. 
 

Q.   Did waiting for that men's match to end-- did that bother you at all?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, a little bit.  It was taking very long and we have to wait and wait.  And probably, yeah, I was ready to play and we have to wait.  So maybe it affect me a little bit.  But that was not the reason, maybe, that why I played like this.  But a little bit, yeah, it affect me a little bit. 
 

Q.   What did you do all that time waiting?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, I mean, I warmed up this morning at 12:00 because I knew it was going to be a long match.  But I didn't expect it to be as long as it was, so I mean, I warm up and I was waiting, because, I mean, Edberg was up and then Chang came back, so I think that I was waiting in the lockerroom, then, I move again to be warm before going to the court and be ready for the match, but it takes very long.  That was a little bit of the reason why maybe it did a little bit to me. 
 

Q.   Did you eat?  Did you watch TV?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  I eat something.  I was listening to music. I didn't watch TV; didn't watch the match, only when it was match point for Edberg; then Chang came back, so I just waited.  I was ready to go to the court; then finally they played five sets.  I was waiting, but I didn't watch the match at all.  I think it was a very long wait, and that you know, also a little bit affect me. 
 

Q.   Before when you were talking about the match you were sort of forcing the points; trying to make something there when there wasn't, because you were impatient; you--
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Me? 
 

Q.   You said you wanted to hurry up and make a point.
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Yeah, I was moving the ball, but I wanted to try to win the point very quick, you know, like when I have a sure ball yesterday, I tried to finish it off, moving her around and wait until I have the right opportunity.  I was a little bit maybe in a rush and I knew what I have to do, maybe I wanted to do it too fast and too quick, so I make a lot of mistakes, and errors.  She makes a good groundstroke, good shots and I have to move.  She played well, but I think I didn't play as well as I played the other matches against Steffi or Manuela. 
 

Q.   Do you think because you beat her just a short time ago that it gave her added incentive to beat you today?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, I mean, I think that when I beat her give me a lot of confidence, but every match is different, for sure maybe she knows what she have to do to beat me this time, and I mean, she go to the court, she was really aggressive and she put all the shots that she just played, but I was not the same as I was like when I beat her the last time.  So that makes a difference, why the match was like that. 
 

Q.   How did Monica play?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  No, I mean, when we played last time it was also the same match, but I was more patient and I get on the right opportunities.  That makes the difference.  Today I was doing the same, but I wanted to try to win the point very quick so I make a lot of errors.  That give the advantage to her to go 5-Love.  I relax and concentrate better, but it was too much advantage already for her. 
 

Q.   She had said, Arantxa, last year when she won this tournament, that she was going to try to work on her serve and volley game.  Do you -- I know she beat you this time.  But does it seem like her serve and volley game is any different?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  No.  I mean, no.  No, I mean, I didn't think that she served one serve and volley.  I didn't see her coming to the net.  She waits and hits it with the groundstrokes; then come in, but never serve and volley, so I am surprised that she said that she is going to do that, I didn't see her at all.   
 

Q.   If she could serve and volley, would she be totally unbeatable?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, I have to see that to see how she doing.  I had cannot imagine.  I know that she is playing the baseline and she is waiting until she has the opportunities, so it is completely thing different, but it will be interesting to see that to change this game.  But I don't think that she will do that.  I mean, she is good with the ways she is now and I don't think she will change serve and volley. 
 

Q.   When she had the volley today she didn't do too well.  How hard is it to bring her up to net to put her in that position?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, it is not hard.  You just have to be patient and moving the ball and bring her to the net and just pass her.  I have some shots that I hit like -- not a drop shot but short ball and she coming in and then I miss the next shot, so I mean, I think his volley is not as good, so you have to mix it up, the game, and be very consistent, and I was not like this today, so that makes the difference.  But I mean, she is very tough at the baseline, but I mean his net game is not really good, I think. 
 

Q.   Arantxa, a lot of people have said if had you win another Grand Slam it will probably be the French. Do you feel that this tournament proved something for you even though you didn't win?  Did it do anything for your image, as not just a clay court--
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Of course.  I am really happy.  I had a great tournament.  I am really happy with my success.  I have great wins.  I am not only a clay court player when I win the French.  I realize that I am a very tough player and I can also play well in this surface and have regular wins like other tournaments like the same surface.  That means a lot to me going to this final and it is like a dream come to reality.  I say I like to be in the U.S. Open final and I was today, and I was a little bit nervous. Maybe that also was not good for my game, but I think I have a great tournament and I am really happy.  I will try next year, but it means a lot to me to be in this final.  I am really happy. 
 

Q.   Who gave you the rose Arantxa; the rose that you carried in?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  One fan. 
 

Q.   Is that your dog that you brought in?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Yes. 
 

Q.   What is its name?
 
ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Roland.   
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT