U.S. OPEN
September 11, 1992
Arantxa Sanchez Vicario
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.   Are you surprised at how easy that was?

 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, I knew that if I start playing
very well the first games, she, maybe, going little bit down.
So I just play really well the first set.  I was having a lot
of confidence, and I knew it can be like this.  I am glad that
I play a great match, and I won.

 Q.   She is the type of person that if you sort of get a jump
on her right a way, she really doesn't come back that way.  Is
that --

 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, I think that she is a tough player.
Anyway, you really have to keep going like that all the time.
 You really have to be very concentrate.  I am very happy, because
since the beginning, I was really aggressive and concentrate,
and I keep going, and, yeah, I mean, she is no easy player, but
if you start going the first games and she sees that you are really
tough, then she is not so confident and she tries to do something
else and she start doing maybe some drop shots.  I saw it and
I just run and hit a winners.  So I am really happy because I
played a great match.  And I am in the final.

 Q.   Are you playing the best tennis of your career right
now?

 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, yeah, I think that I am playing
really well at the moment.  I have a lot of confidence, and I
have very-- confidence on my game, and everything, I do it --
I know that I am doing right, so I play great tennis and I am
really happy, because I play my best, and I keep going on in the
tournament.

 Q.   What is your record against Seles?

 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  1 and 9.

 Q.   Last time you played her is when you beat her?

 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Yes.

 Q.   Was there something different about that match, other
than the fact that you won?

 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  This year I start playing much better.
 I have a very good year since the beginning, and I won Lipton
tournament, the same surface, so that gives me a lot of confidence.
 I knew that I have to play, you know, my own game, and probably,
I feel much confidence now that I did the last nine times that
I played her, so I play a great match when I beat her.  It was
the first time.  I think that when you start win, then she is
thinking more times, and she really have to think more, so I am
really happy, because I know that I am playing my best right now.
 I am just going to fight and continue play my own game and fighting
like I did today, and tomorrow.

 Q.   This last match you had with her, it wasn't a question
of anything different you did in terms of strategy.   You played
the same game against her, you just played it better?

 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Yes, I played my own game and I played
a great match.  I was aggressive, and I didn't give her many opportunities
to hit the balls, so I was the one who start  -- start taking
the opportunity and the point and that makes a difference why
I beat her the last time.  I am going to do the same tomorrow.


 Q.   Do you think she has lost a little sharpness?

 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  I think she is playing the same, but
we know what we have to do to beat her.  That makes the difference.


 Q.   Do you think she is going to have to add things to her
game to get one up on the competition again?

 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, I mean, I don't think about her
so much.  I am just think about what I am doing and I know I am
doing everything right, and I have confidence, so I am just --
I know what I have to do to play her, and also Mary Joe.  Let
us see who is going to win.  But if I have to play Monica, then
I will know what I have to do.  So --

 Q.   What you are saying is you have to be the one that really
sort of moves her first before she can start to move, you have
to sort of be the first one to get her going where you want her
to go before she does that to you?

 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  I know what she is playing.  I have
to play my own game.  I don't have to do anything new or anything
different.  I play my best tennis right now.  I have a lot of
confidence.  I am very strong, mentally, so I know what I have
to do, and I am just going to do it, and fight until the end and
try to beat her too, again.

 Q.   What has been the sort of the key or the important thing
over the course of the year that has gotten your game better in
terms of coaching or the whole thin, that improved you?

 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, I change my coach, and I have
a new coach, Marvyn Rose who helps me a lot, so I am really happy
because we are a good team, and he probably give me this confidence
to play better on hardcourts and my game improve a very big. 
Right now, I am very strong.  I beat the best players on this
surface and I know that I can do it probably again.  So I am playing
really well and I have a great coach.  This is the reason why
I am playing so well since the beginning of the year.

 Q.   Do you go into tomorrow feeling like you could beat anybody?

 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, when I go to the court, I mean,
I always thinking that I can beat everybody.  I mean, I have confidence.
 I know that it is difficult, but I have -- I was thinking positive.
 Even if it's the number one, I don't have nothing to lose against
her.  The pressure is all on her because she has to defend the
title.  I am just going to play my best game.  But, I mean, I
am going to have confidence thinking that I can beat her also.

 MS. REYNOLDS:  Arantxa would like to make an announcement.

 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, Lipton Company and I would like
to help to rebuilding houses in Miami, and try to help the people
for what happens, and I am just going to donate $10,000 for them
to try to help them and also my company, Reebok Shoes and Clothing
Company is also going to donate $10,000, so, it is going to be
all to try to rebuilding his houses and try to help them for,
you know, for making a new life and try to live again, very well
like they did when they have -- before everything happened.  So
that is it.

 (APPLAUSE.)

 Q.   Specifically where is it going to?

 MR. BUCHHOLZ:  I might help her answer that.  The former chairman
of the Knight-Ridder Corporation is heading up a private sector
contribution or a fund raiser to go back and try to rebuild our
business community, our farms; the agriculture that has been devastated,
the small businesses.  It is in conjunction with the Chamber.
 The organization is called "We will read build Miami."
  And there is, you know, obviously a lot of need right now. There
has been a great deal of generosity in terms of the emergency
needs, but we don't need food anymore.  We don't need clothing
and when the funds from the government run out, we are still going
to have to be able to make some contribution to our businesses
and build our community back up again.  So we couldn't have a
better spokesperson than our defending champion this year.  We
really appreciate, Arantxa, what you have done for us.

 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Thank you.

 MR. BUCHHOLZ:  I will tell you that Cliff and I have been up
here for almost two weeks, my brother, and we are amazed at the
depth of which people want to help, the WTA is helping; the ATP
is helping.  We have talked to a lot of -- your organization,
I understand, is going to put something in.  My brother and I
are putting in $10,000 also.  So we are hoping to try to raise
somewhere between 50 and $100,000 from the tennis community that
is here.  So we are greatly grateful for what you have done, and
again, we couldn't have a more appropriate spokesperson for this
very needy cause.

 Q.   Is it for the general fund or specifically Key Biscayne?

 MR. BUCHHOLZ:  It is for all of Dade County, and the people that
are on the committee are -- it is primarily made up of the different
mayors and city managers who know the pockets of the community
that need the help.

 Q.   Please identify yourself.

 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Butch Buchholz from the Lipton Tennis
Tournament.

 Q.   Arantxa, how did you get involved in this and what is
your feeling why you would be the one to step forward and do something?

 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, because I think that I really
know what happens and I always like to give the nations.  I also
given Spain many times, so I was really happy to try to help them,
and so there is a lot of Spanish people and South American people
in Miami.  I just want to try to help them, because my heart is
also feeling a little bit like I have everything and now they
don't have everything, but I feel great that I can help him and
try to, you know, give my $10,000 from my prize money today and
I am really happy and I hope that if everybody collaborate and
they can really live again really well.  It was my decision. 
I really tried to help them.

 MR. BUCHHOLZ:  This is actually an ongoing effort.  We will be
doing things during the tournament and all year long, so--

 Q.   This sounds very good.  Clarify who is giving what money.
 She is giving the money out of her prize earnings or Lipton Reebok
are doing it in her name or--

 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  No, I give $10,000.  He give another
10,000 and Reebok give another 10,000.

 Q.   We are talking total of 30?

 MR. BUCHHOLZ:  We did 30 in just the last few--

 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  I did the first one.  They collaborated.


 Q.   Butch, you approached her and you asked her?

 MR. BUCHHOLZ:  She volunteered.  I did not ask her.  

 Q.   Didn't you say just today this came about?

 MR. BUCHHOLZ:  I think in the last 24 hours, 48 hours she had
mentioned to her representatives that she would like to do something.
 Obviously, I have been sort of a pain in the neck asking for
money from a lot of people, so--

 Q.   Have you been down there at all, Arantxa, to see what
happened?

 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, I saw it on TV, and I mean, I
was not there, but I know it is horrible, and I think that this
is why I tried to collaborate because I think it was a lot of
people who, you know, lost a lot of things and this is why I am
giving my help.

 Q.   How has it gone this week in terms of raising money here
for you?

 MR. BUCHHOLZ:  I am very encouraged.  Obviously, there is a great
deal of sympathy, and, you know, I think people are aware of the
disaster and the destruction.  I mean, it is not an exaggeration
to say this is the worst catastrophe in our country's history.
 It will be year and years and years before our community will
even look the same.  Probably, certainly not in my lifetime.

 Q.   I know you had the problems with the Lipton earlier.
 Are you confident that you are going to able to stage this event?

 MR. BUCHHOLZ:  The tournament is fine.

 Q.   What is the status of the stadium?

 MR. BUCHHOLZ:  The stadium right now, we won our case.

 Q.   I mean, physically because of the hurricane.

 MR. BUCHHOLZ:  Everything is fine.  There is -- there are some
good things that happened out of this.  If the judge had not had
stopped us, we would have been very far along, and at that point
the building would probably be a lot more fragile and so we were
fortunate that it probably would have been destroyed.

 Q.   You mentioned that ATP and WTA earlier.  Can you be more
specific what they have contributed?

 MR. BUCHHOLZ:  I don't know.  I am meeting with Steve Meister
on Wednesday, I have not spoken to--

 Q.   You have a commitment from them to do something?

 MR. BUCHHOLZ:  Yes.

 Q.   At this point you just have this commitment from Arantxa
and Reebok and yourself?

 MR. BUCHHOLZ:  And ATP and WTA.

 End of FastScripts....            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT