U.S. OPEN
September 9, 1992
Arantxa Sanchez Vicario
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.   Can I have your assessment of the match? Could you tell
us about the match?

 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  I think that I played really well,
and I was very consistent, and I knew that I have to be aggressive,
because if not, she take advantage with her forehand.  So I start
really well, winning the first two games.  Then she come back
and then I was 4-2, up again, and I tried to do the same as yesterday,
I am moving as yesterday.  I am moving the ball; trying to be
aggressive.  I wanted to win the point very quick.  Then I had
make some mistakes.  Then on the tiebreaker, I was to start really
well.  It was the key to win the tiebreaker, to give me more confidence.
 I think I play great tennis, always moving the ball very well;
going to the net, I have chances, I am really happy, because I
play a great match.  I was very aggressive.  I deserve to win
and I won.  

 Q.   Arantxa, you lost to her five times earlier this year.
 Why the success today; do you think?

 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, I mean, I play five times on
clay. This was first time we play on hardcourt.  It is a little
different, because here when I play a shot, the ball is going
quicker; maybe she doesn't have stamina like she was on clay,
what makes a difference that today, I knew I am going to have
to do and I do the right thing.  I was aggressive when I have
to be.  Also I serve really well and make some aces when I need
it.  So I was really concentrate during all the match.  This is
why I won.

 Q.   Arantxa, you have been really confident all week.  Geared
for this.  I think you knew your were going to beat her before
you walked out there?

 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  I knew I have some chances to beat
her, of course.  Every match I play better; went to the court
feeling really well for the moment.  I knew that if I play all
the matches and I was confident, I didn't have nothing to lose,
so I just play my own game and be aggressive like I have to do.
 So I knew that I have some chances to beat her and I went there,
and I beat her.  So I know that I can do it and I do it.  I am
very happy.

 Q.   What about your next match, Arantxa?

 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, I am playing one of the Maleevas.
 I think I just have to play my game.  Every time you go in you
have more confidence, so I am just going to concentrate like I
did today and all the matches and just play my game, and keep
going and win that one, because I like to try to be in the final.


 Q.   You think it is going to be easier against one of the
Maleevas than it was today against Steffi?

 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  I think not even the first match is
easy. All the matches are difficult.  You have to play your best,
and I think that I am just going match to match; concentrate everyone,
even if it is not behind my ranking, so I am just concentrate,
playing my best game try to win that match.  So I know if I play
like I did today I have some chances to win that next match.

 Q.   Which of the Maleevas do you expect to win?

 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, both play really similar, both
has two-handed backhand, and I mean, they play very similar games,
so I think that I don't mind who is winning, but I am just going
to have a day off, and -- well, no day off. I am going to relax
now; when come the match; then think about it.

 Q.   Do you think Steffi's forehand is getting weak?

 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  No.  I think that I know what I have
to do to beat her, so I just did it today.  I think that she is
playing really well because to win Wimbledon you have to be in
good shape.  She has come back to play again very well, but I
play very good shots.  I think I surprise her because I went to
the net more than maybe she expected.  So this is why I beat her.
 But I mean, she is playing well, I think.

 Q.   Thank you.    


 End of FastScripts....            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT