U.S. OPEN
September 7, 1992
Arantxa Sanchez Vicario
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.   Arantxa, did you play real well or is she just not playing
up to her normal game?

 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  No, I think that I played really well.
Every time she come to the net, I make a very good passing shots,
and maybe I know she is going to come all the time to the net.
 And I think that maybe she was coming very well, but I pass her,
so I think that I play really well. This is why I win so easily.


 Q.   You are playing well right now; you seem to be hitting
every little corner; put it where you want to all the time?

 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  I have a lot of confidence, yeah, my
game is improving a lot.  I feel in very good shape.  I go on
the court, try to my best.  I am really happy because I played
a great match.  Now I keep going.

 Q.   You feel this building up?  Do you feel it is really
building up; momentum in getting confidence?

 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  I feel every time it is getting better,
yeah. Especially when everything works really well, is even when
I go to the net too.  I think that my game now is very complete.
 I am improving a lot.  This is why I win these matches like this,
because I play really well and I have really good concentration.


 Q.   Now Steffi is waiting for another big match for you.
 Did she become something like a nightmare for you now?

 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  No.  No, because, I mean, I have some
tough matches against Steffi, and I only beat her twice, something
like that.  And I think that right now I am playing better than
the last times I play.  So I don't have nothing to lose.  I am
just going to play my game, and keep going and doing like I did
today, and try to see if I something-- win this one too, so, I
think that I feel good and that is the most important thing.

 Q.   The fact that Monica makes less noise now on the court,
has that affected her game?

 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  I don't know.  Ask her.  I don't know.
 I mean, I can't answer.

 Q.   Just in your opinion?

 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  I cannot answer.  She can answer better
than me, I think.

 Q.   Do you have a special match plan against Steffi?

 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, I know what I have to do.  I
am just going to play my game like I did today because I am trying
to play the best I can.  So, I mean, I don't have nothing  --
I don't have to do anything special against Steffi.  I mean, I
just have to play my game and keep concentrating like I had did
this-- just play my whole game; keep fighting and see if I can
win too.  There is nothing sort of game plan, no.

 Q.   Do you think Zina played badly or you were especially
sharp today?

 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  I think she was coming all the time
to the net; maybe she expect me to miss more passing shots, but
all the time that I have hit the ball, I hit it very well. I hit
a very good passing shots.  I think that I played really well
and she didn't have any chance.  So she just have to continue
keep coming to the net because on the baseline I am more steady
than her and I think that she -- I know that she was going to
come to the net all the time and I just really concentrate great,
and I am the one who win the match.  I think that I played a great
match and she didn't have probably many chances.     

 Q.   When your brothers were playing as they were yesterday,
which one do you root for?

 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, I mean, I just-- I was just another
spectator, like somebody else.  I mean, it is very hard when your
brothers play each other, and I know one has to win and one has
to lose, so I think that it is hard for me.  I mean, I cannot
answer.  I wish that both can win, but they can't, so but I was
really very nervous for both.

 Q.   You played Steffi a couple of times this year.  If had
you compare her with 1988 where she played her best, is she still
in this level, or --

 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, I mean, I didn't -- I don't watch
her very much.  I just concentrate what I am doing, and I think
that she won couple of tournaments this year too.  She won Wimbledon,
so she is, I think, she is playing really well again and I think
that every match is different.  So I am playing, I think, my best
right now, so let us see what is going to happen.  But I am just
going to try to win too against Steffi.

 Q.   You played so much.  Are you surprised at all that you
are able to not tire out?  It looks like you are getting stronger,
and --

 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, I played a lot of matches, and
I am in good shape, and I have been working a lot.  And I am getting
very fit and strong and I am -- I am now in my best condition,
so I feel great, in very good shape.  It helps me a lot that,
I play a lot of matches because when I play tough matches now,
I am very confident and I am very strong, so I think that you
really have to be very strong to keep going like this, and I am
glad that I am very good condition and I can keep going.

 Q.   Thank you.   


 End of FastScripts....            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT