U.S. OPEN
September 1, 1992
Arantxa Sanchez Vicario
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.   Talk about your match.  Talk about your chances.  Talk
about anything you like.

 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, about today's match, I started
very slow, and I didn't start playing as well that I was at the
start; maybe she is a good player, I mean, I know that she can
be difficult player when she  plays really well.  I knew she is
going to come all the time to the net.  This is what she does
in the match, and I think that on the first set, I put my return,
but I wanted to try to win the point very quick, and to make passing
shots as winners in case I put it in.  That is why I make so many
mistakes in the first set.  After the second set, I play with
more concentration and I play my own game, moving the ball, hit
very good passing shots.  I serve much better. The third set,
important game, was 3-1, 4-1 because I'd get a lot of confidence
and I win the match.  I knew nothing will happen that I lost the
first set.  In my mind, I thought that I have to continue playing,
and I was, you know, I knew that I had a lot of chances to win
this match and I continue fighting and playing my best and I won
the match.  It is good that I come back but I start very slow
in the beginning.

 Q.   How do you rate your chances here?  Do you think you
have the kind of game that can win?

 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  It is hard to answer, but I mean anything
can happen.  I mean, I think right now everybody is playing his
best.  I am just thinking, you know, match to match, and I think
that I play really well on the hard court and the last few tournaments,
and I have a good win, so, I am just going to do my best and I
think that if I play like I did in the second or third set, you
know, that is my game, why not?  I mean, it is hard -- I think
everybody has chances.

 Q.   Can you talk about what we were talking about here, about
this being a different year because of Barcelona and the Olympics?
 I mean you had trouble warming up, Capriati won a gold medal,
was down 1-5 before she warmed up.  Conchita got beaten, the first
round.  Courier got beaten the first round, last night.

 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  No.  Courier no.  I think that maybe
it is, you know, it is very hard after you arre coming to win
a tournament, and you really are very excited and you want to
play really well.  Maybe you start a little bit, I don't know,
losing, and then the other ones, they start playing really well,
and you have to come back and win that set. So maybe it is difficult
and it is not normal, it is not usually that everybody starts
down like Capriati where she was 5-1 down.  I lost the first set
and somebody else did the same.  I don't know, I think that there
is a lot of wind out there, and you really have to concentrate,
and I mean, the conditions of this tournament are different than
last week for example when we play, but anyway, the first match
is always the toughest one because everybody likes to win, and
if you win that match, then you continue being in the tournament
and you play better and better, so it is hard and I think that
the important thing is that you play your best at the end and
you win the match.  This is what I did today.

 Q.   You played a lot of tennis at the Olympics, lots of matches,
doubles and singles.  Are you terribly disappointed that you didn't
win a gold medal at home and, number two, did it hurt your preparation
for this tournament?  

 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, I mean, Olympics are already
past and I am really happy that I win two medals, and I didn't
win the gold, but I win the bronze and the silver, so, I am the
only Spanish player to win two medals in the same Olympics so
I am happy that nobody can take that away.  I think I have the
gold because it would be more emotional to be in my hometown.
 So I have to wait four years in Atlanta.  I played really well,
and I think after the Olympics, I went to the States, right away,
because I played a tournament in L.A. then one in Montreal.  This
week I had off before the tournament, and helps me a lot my preparation
because I played hard court, a lot of tournaments on the same
surface so I was ready for the U.S. Open.  And now I am going
to play and do my best.

 Q.   Are you tired from all this tennis?

 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, I know I played a lot, and it
helped me especially because I play a lot of matches, and I am
in good shape, and similar playing really well at the moment.
But it is also very-- I am a little bit tired too, because I play
a lot and mentally, now I am recuperated but it was tough after
the Olympics right away to play in the States, the next week,
a tournament, but now that helped me a lot and I am fresh now
and I know after here, I am going to have some vacations, some
holidays.  That is good.  I deserve that.

 Q.   Talk about Conchita.  Are you surprised she got eliminated
in the first round?

 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Well, I was surprised.  I mean, I didn't
know, because I didn't know she was playing, and she played the
other girl, last week, and she beat her, so, I don't know, I cannot
tell you anything because I didn't see the match.  But I am surprised.


 Q.   Grossman was talking about the mental aspect of the game
and how she has improved and make her game better.  She is saying
that she is surprised with Conchita because Conchita is so good,
she could hit so well and her ground strokes are at the level
of Sabatini but it is all mental and she is not quite there.

 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  I cannot tell you.  I mean, you have
to ask her.  I mean, I am Arantxa, I am not Conchita; you have
to ask her.  It is better.  I cannot tell you anything.  I am
just thinking about what I am doing, and I mean it is hard to
say.

 Q.   The crowd doesn't seem to bother you here. I noticed
in your match, you started playing; people were walking and you
were ready to play.

 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Yeah, I know that this court, everybody
is going in and out, like almost every changeover and not in the
changeovers and if you have time have to wait, you are never going
to play.  I just -- didn't think about it, I just concentrate,
and I didn't watch the people, so, yeah, I was just, you know,
thinking about the match, and anyway it is hard because you really
have to be very concentrate.

 Q.   You like playing here?

 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Yeah.  I like it very much, and I think
it is very good tournament and I feel that people like me. Like
today, they were cheering for me, and I think that -- I hope I
can have the next match like I did today.   

 End of FastScripts....            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT