U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 30, 2013
Casie Cathrea
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talk about shooting 70 on this course.   
CASIE CATHREA:   I started out pretty good.   I lit up the front nine with about five birdies.   And then I bogeyed 9 and kind of just tried to stay in my own little zone the last nine holes, just trying to finish out.   Par was pretty much my friend.  
   
 Q.   Were you thinking of a pretty low number when you were 5‑under through 8 today?  
CASIE CATHREA:   I was just trying to stay in my own bubble, not get ahead of myself.   I know I had the tendency to do that earlier this week.   I tried to just stay in my own little mindset.  
   
 Q.   Aside from the weather, do you have much playing experience up here in the northeast?  
CASIE CATHREA:   No.   The Women's Porter Cup is the first time that I had ever been up here.  
   
 Q.   How much did that decision play into qualifying for the U.S. Open?  
CASIE CATHREA:   I would have played in it no matter what.   My coach, Coach Bratton, actually told me about it.   I questioned him.   I was like, isn't that a boy's tournament?  
He was like, no, they have it for girls.   
I was like, okay, I trust you.   I got it.  
   
 Q.   What was the biggest adjustment you had to make?  
CASIE CATHREA:   Just not firing at the pins.   I tried to do that yesterday and I shot a lovely 7‑over.   So I figured today just to go out and play the sections of the green and act like the pin wasn't there.   
I practiced in the fog this morning, and it was basically like there was no pins on the range for me.  
   
 Q.   Are you disappointed?   
CASIE CATHREA:   I'm a little disappointed.   I'm also at the U.S. Open and I made the cut.   So that was my only goal and to be low amateur, and I think I accomplished that.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
CASIE CATHREA:   I just tried to play my own game basically.   My goal going to this tournament was try to below amateur.   My goal going into the qualifier was to try to be low qualifier, so I accomplished both of those goals.   
   
 Q.   That's not bad for this is your first Women's Open experience.   I know you played in an LPGA event when you were 13.   Describe the differences in those.   
CASIE CATHREA:   The nerves definitely.   There's a lot more nerves.   I started out yesterday and my legs were shaking.   I was like, dude, relax.   You are fine.   Basically it was just the nerves.   I definitely learned what I can and can't do on golf courses this week.   
   
 Q.   Is this the second time you have played with the LPGA players?  
CASIE CATHREA:   Fourth.  
   
 Q.   You played the CVS?  
CASIE CATHREA:   I played the Bell Micro, and then I attempted to qualify for what used to be Bell Micro, which is the Avnet now.   I think it's one before Lexi won.  
   
 Q.   Did you play in the Canadian Open or Canadian Am?  
CASIE CATHREA:   Am.   
   
 Q.   What is on the rest of your schedule this summer?  
CASIE CATHREA:   I have the Junior Girls.   I'm thinking about doing the Trans, which is about two hours from my house.   We will see how that goes.   I think my dad said I got on the Junior Solheim Cup team.   That is on the list right before school starts.   
   
 Q.   That's not a bad accomplishment for the summer, huh?  
CASIE CATHREA:   No, not at all.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
CASIE CATHREA:   We are all very proud of him.   We all know that he wanted to go back and coach the boys.   None of us took it personally.   He told me earlier this week that he'll still be there and he'll still be there if I need help or anything that I need.   It's not that he's leaving in general, he's just not my coach anymore.   So I will help Coach Jones out as much as I possibly can.  
   
 Q.   What is your most memorable moment of this week?  
CASIE CATHREA:   I can't pick one.   I got to play with a former OSU player Caroline in my practice round.   I got to play with Laura Diaz and Brittany Lang as well.   So that was pretty fun.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT