PUERTO RICO OPEN PRESENTED BY BANCO POPULAR
March 12, 2009
Cliff Kresge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   NELSON SILVERIO: Cliff Kresge, thanks for spending a few minutes with us here today, 5-under par today, currently tied for the lead. Just get us started by giving us just some general thoughts on your round.  
 CLIFF KRESGE: Well, I got off to a great start actually. I just missed a birdie putt on No. 1, but hit a great 3-iron on that par-5, No. 2 and made like a 20-footer for eagle, which was nice.   
 Then I hit a wedge in there on No. 3, knocked that in for birdie. And I'm kind of cruising along, and I get to No. 6, tough in the cross-wind. I hit it in the bunker, don't get up-and-down.   
 Hit some good solid shots, made some good pars on the end of the holes, and hit a great 9-iron on No. 10 to like a foot. And hit some good shots on 11 and 12 and just missed them. And finally made a birdie. It started raining a little bit on us on that 14 or something like that, that long par-5 into the wind. So I was able to hit a decent third shot in there and make that for a birdie.   
 And then I had a couple of chances on 16, 17, just missed them, and 18 hit a nice wedge there about three feet and knocked that in for a birdie. Good way to finish.   
  
  Q. You said it was raining a little bit. Some wind left over?  
 CLIFF KRESGE: Yeah. It was quite breezy. It was breezy right from the get-go. We woke up this morning and it was blowing as soon as we got up. So I knew it was going to be a challenging day with the winds.   
 They did a good job of moving some of the tees up because some of those holes would be really, really tough if it was played all the way back in the wind.  
  
  Q. Yesterday they were saying some of the greens were a little hard and fast. Do you think this little rain helped them out a little bit?  
 CLIFF KRESGE: I found the greens very receptive. They kind of seemed firm, but when the ball hit, it really didn't take off, to be honest with you. I thought the greens were receptive today. As a matter of fact, on some of the down-wind, shots my ball stopped a little faster than I thought it would. So I thought the greens were pretty good, nice speed. They weren't real fast or slow. They were good.  
  
  Q. Is this your first time here in Puerto Rico?  
 CLIFF KRESGE: This is my first time. I played in Mexico a couple weeks ago, and there's a lot of similarities with that, the grass being Paspalum, and the greens were pretty similar.   
 The whole setting really reminds me of Hawaii a little bit with the mountains in the background, palm trees, Bermuda grass, very similar, windy.  
  
  Q. Even though it's still early, would you say this is the best round so far?  
 CLIFF KRESGE: I'd have to say, not really one of my best ones. I've had some good rounds so far this year.   
 I shot 9-under at the Bob Hope one day and shot a few more 5, 6-under-par rounds this year, but it's in the top ten for sure.   
  
  Q. Even though it's early in the tournament, for what you've seen and the scores we'll probably see today, what do you think will be the score?  
 CLIFF KRESGE: Probably pretty close to last year's score. Somewhere around 4-under a day would be pretty good at the end of the day; end of the week, 16 or so.  
  
  Q. (Inaudible).   
 CLIFF KRESGE: I started off real well, made the first three cuts, finished tenth in Phoenix and I was cruising along, and then hit a little bump the last couple weeks.   
 I missed four cuts in a row, which is rare for me. I missed the last two by one and two shots. I usually make a lot of cuts. Just my ball striking hasn't been there as good as I'd like, and I'm close. I'm real close, but it doesn't take much to slip a little bit when you're struggling.  
  
  Q. So today's score, does that mean it's getting there?  
 CLIFF KRESGE: Yeah. It's getting there. I still missed plenty of shots out there. I just got away with some of them.   
 But I was pretty happy with the way I just kind of stuck with the game plan, just kept going. Even though I missed a few shots every now and then, I just stuck with the game plan and kept going with the same swing shot and made putts as I could.   
 Hope to see you guys late Sunday.   
 NELSON SILVERIO: All right. Good luck.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT