AT&T NATIONAL
July 4, 2008
Cliff Kresge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Great round today, just a couple highlights on the round.   
 CLIFF KRESGE: Let's see, I tell you what, I hit a great shot on No. 10 and I changed putters today. I've been putting terribly, and I put the blade back in the bag which I putted with for a while most of last year. And just, I don't know, I tried to get in the bag and I just couldn't quite get the feeling and all of the sudden, I putted so bad yesterday, I said I don't care what this putter feels like, I'm using it today.   
 And I started to use it and I just started feeling good about starting the ball on the line I wanted to. That's me right now; it was all about making putts, because I haven't been making any putts at all, and I've really been playing fairly well. So I made a nice putt on whatever that par 3 is, 13 or something like that.   
 I made a couple other nice putts. They weren't bombs, like an 8-footer and 10-footer, things you feel like you should make. They started going in and I started hitting putts on the line and I started getting some confidence and I felt good about some things and took the tension out of my full game to have to hit it so close.   
  
  Q. Like a domino effect, you're rolling the ball well and you start hitting more fairways?   
 CLIFF KRESGE: Exactly. It was working the other way last week, because in Flint, I've never been able to putt those greens, and everybody else seems to shoot 20-under out there; and I can't make it from ten feet, I've got no chance.   
 Just filtered into my golf bag and British Open qualifier was a joke, and I'm like, man, this is not me. And finally I started hitting some shots I'm used to seeing, and then actually made a couple putts and the score came.   
  
  Q. Did the rain delay do anything for you?  
 CLIFF KRESGE: Not really. I think maybe softened up the course a little bit, but I did make a couple birdies coming in. But I thought the course maybe played slightly easier, but about the same.   
  
  Q. Great position, three back of the lead going into the weekend. How do you handle Friday night going into the weekend?   
 CLIFF KRESGE: Just like I normally do I hope. I have my son here and my mom and we are going to go enjoy some fireworks and enjoy the weekend.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT