100TH WESTERN OPEN
July 5, 2003
Cliff Kresge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







TODD BUDNICK:  Thank you, Cliff, for joining us after your 3-under 69 today, four birdies and a bogey.  You still have some work cut out for you tomorrow.  You played pretty well today. 
CLIFF KRESGE:  No question.  He played very, very well, also.  I don't know what happened on the back, but he sure played really well and it was fun to watch.
TODD BUDNICK:  How hard is that, watching somebody in your group take off like that and you just see yourself -- I guess you got two birdies in that same period.
CLIFF KRESGE:  Well, sometimes it can suck you along with him, and I felt like I needed to keep going if I wanted to stay within earshot of the guy.  There's still a lot of golf left.  Obviously he's won a lot of tournaments and knows how to do it, but I'm going to go out and do my own thing and try to make a bunch of birdies and get close.

Q.  You changed shoes after teeing off on the ninth?
CLIFF KRESGE:  The shoes I was wearing in the beginning were just rubbing my left heel so bad I could hardly walk.  It didn't bother me when I was playing golf, it was just walking.  I stuck everything in there from a little Advil packet thing to a cup just to get some kind of relief.  So finally I had my wife go back and get my shoes out of the truck and I got a couple of butterfly Band-Aids on there and it felt better.

Q.  Did it affect your play do you think?
CLIFF KRESGE:  No, it didn't affect my game except that it hurt.

Q.  On the hole that Tiger made eagle, you three-putted, and then I saw you walking off shaking your head.  Could your round have gone the wrong way at that point because it was a tough spot?
CLIFF KRESGE:  His ball could have easily gone the other way and gone in the bunker and I could have made birdie and it could have been a three-shot swing the other way.  He ended up having a tap-in.  That's just how the ball bounces sometimes.  I was disappointed in what I did.  You can't control what he did.  I'm not even thinking about my foot because it was bothering me a lot.  I misread the putt and I hit it too hard and missed it coming back.  That's the way it goes.

Q.  What did you take out of the experience of playing in the last group and playing with Tiger?  How much did you learn today and how will it help you tomorrow?
CLIFF KRESGE:  I'm not sure what I learned, but I did really enjoy my time today.  Tiger was very cordial, he talked to me, he treated me like anybody else.  You know, some people don't say anything while they're out there all day long.  We had a good time, we laughed, and even though we were both trying to win a golf tournament we had a good time out there and I enjoyed it and I'm really looking forward to tomorrow.

Q.  On quite a few holes, at least on the front nine, you sort of second-guessed your choices on club selection.  Did that help you today or were you in danger of sort of slipping out of the rhythm?
CLIFF KRESGE:  The wind was swirling.  It seemed like every time I drew a club out, it stopped or changed directions.  It's just a timing thing.  If you've got a club in your hand and the wind does something different, you have to change clubs.  Sometimes it takes a little longer to hit a shot and you've got to be patient.  Some guy told me how to do it, and I told him I've got to do my job, you can't do it for me.  You've got to be patient sometimes.  That's what I was trying to do.  Maybe that helped me stay settled and not get wrapped up, but every time I did take my time, I ended up hitting a good shot.

Q.  Robert Allenby said that his mindset will be tomorrow to go out and try to shoot a 62 or 63.  Is that what you're going to take into tomorrow, also?
CLIFF KRESGE:  Well, I guess you're going to have to make a ton of birdies if you're going to win the golf tournament.  The first 11 holes you've just got to make as many birdies as you possibly can, and other than that, on the par-5s you've got to play some good golf.  It's crucial to get off to a good start because you can make a lot of birdies in the first 11 holes as Tiger did today.  If he slips up and shoots even par and you shoot 4- or 5-under, then you've got a ballgame.  Other than that, what can you say.

Q.  Were you guys ever put on the clock today?
CLIFF KRESGE:  No, I don't think so.  No, we waited on par-5s both times on the front, so even though we got behind with my shoe thing and waiting a few shots, no, we never got behind at all that I know of.
TODD BUDNICK:  We'll go through your birdies.  No. 2.
CLIFF KRESGE:  No. 2, I hit an 8-iron probably -- just short of pin-high left, made about a 15-footer there.
7, I hit a good drive there and I hit a wedge to about six feet or so behind the hole, maybe more.
12 -- I holed a bunker shot.  I was short-sighted on the back part of the bunker, I had the bunker to carry.

Q.  How far?
CLIFF KRESGE:  I only had about 20 feet, I just had no green to work with.
The bogey on 14, I hit a shot from that bunker, which was a good bunker shot.  I hit a good shot about six feet and I just pulled the putt.
15, I hit a nice wedge in there to about six feet and I made that one.

Q.  What did you think regarding Tiger after seeing him go 6-under after the first seven?
CLIFF KRESGE:  Me and my caddie were wondering if he was ever going to miss a putt.  What can you say, it's hard to catch a guy that makes every putt.  All you can do is try and make some putts yourself.  I guess we're fortunate he made two bogeys or we'd be eight shots behind.

Q.  Where did that fan yell at you to --
CLIFF KRESGE:  No. 4.  First thing, that was when I put -- I first put some Band-Aids on my foot and I had to put my shoe on and I never had an opportunity to take a look at the shot and then it's my turn.  I'm trying to think about my shot, and then I stepped off it a couple times, and some guy said, "hit it," and I said, "I will." 

Q.  You put it pretty close, too, didn't you?
CLIFF KRESGE:  I hit it pretty good.  It flew farther than I thought it would and it spun back.

Q.  Just a follow-up on the shoes, were they new?
CLIFF KRESGE:  No, I wore them before, it just felt like my heel was slipping out of the shoe more than it should, almost like either the heel wasn't like high enough so it would grab the bottom part of my heel or the hole was a little too big or something.  It just felt like my foot was coming in and out of the shoe.  That's why the Achilles and the heel back there were rubbing up and down.

Q.  That never happened before?
CLIFF KRESGE:  Not to that extent.  That was pretty uncomfortable.

Q.  New shoes tomorrow?
CLIFF KRESGE:  Yeah, different shoes for sure.
TODD BUDNICK:  Thank you, Cliff, and good luck tomorrow.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT