U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 29, 2011
D.A. Weibring
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. I have to ask you the question. Take me through your hole in one.   
 D.A. WEIBRING: Well, the 3rd hole had a back right pin placement today. I think it was 168 yards. I was really in between 6 and 7-irons. I hit 8-iron the day before to the left pin but we really didn't have much wind. And I decided to take 6. My caddie and I agreed on that, trying to play just a little bit of a cut shot. And really hit the ball solid.   
 The ball started working towards the hole. I think Ben Crenshaw said that's got to be good. You really can't see because of the flashed-up bunkers. So the ball hit and we saw all the hands in the crowd go in the air, so they told us we made a 1 because we didn't see it go in.  
  
  Q. How many hole in ones have you made if you can remember?   
 D.A. WEIBRING: I'm embarrassed. I've lost track a little bit. It's in the 20 range though.  
  
  Q. 20, that's not bad. Put the hole in one in the scope of your entire round. Did it jump start you? What affect did have on the rest of your day?   
 D.A. WEIBRING: You know, I had a bad start yesterday. I made triple on 12. I really didn't hit that bad a shot. The ball landed just short of the green and rolled backwards. With them playing that as a hazard where it should be a lateral hazard as it is all the time, I had to go back and I made 6.   
 I was fine. I bogeyed I think 4 or 5 and 6. So I was 5-over par after six holes. Ironically in '86, I've always played pretty well. I think this was my first Open in '79 and I think I finished 19th. I remember I had a good birdie chance on the last hole. If I would have made it, it would have gotten me in the Masters.   
 Then in '86 I got off to a terrible start and I was 4-over par after four, but finished fourth. So the slow starts have happened here before.   
 I just tried to hang in there yesterday. I got a couple back and shot 3-over par, which wasn't horrible. And today I've had some injury issues, shoulder and the ribs.   
 We all have aches and pains. But I was a little tight starting off. But I hit some good shots early. I think that 6-iron gave me some confidence that I played the right type of shot.   
 Then I went to 4 and I hit a really good tee shot. Overall I played really well today, but there is a little bit of pressure when you make a hole in one or do something. You want to be sure you take advantage of it. You don't want to hit a shot like that or hole out on the fairway and have it be a bad day, so I wanted to keep going.   
 I made a double bogey on 15, hit it to the right under a tree. I had no idea what the cut was going to be. They're saying around 2 or 3-over par in that ballpark.  
  
  Q. Yeah, it's switching between the two.   
 D.A. WEIBRING: So I had gotten back on the bubble. I got back to even par on the tournament and I make a double bogey, and we're trying to finish the last four holes in the dark.  
  
  Q. Were you conscious of that? Were you rushing to try to finish?   
 D.A. WEIBRING: We were moving. We were trying to get it done. And I played the last three holes after the double bogey really well. I hit really good shots. I birdied 17 and 18 coming in and I hit it close to the holes, so that topped off the good day. Finishing that way along with the hole in one made it a really good day.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT