SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 25, 2007
D.A. Weibring
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Talk about your day.   
 D.A. WEIBRING:  I had some work to do after the round.  Since today's my birthday, I was trying to give myself a birthday present.  No, I didn't play very well yesterday.  I especially didn't putt very well.  The wind really -- I 3-putted the first two greens, I missed a two footer yesterday and I got off on my third hole for birdie.  And I fought back a little bit and then I finished and bogeyed my last two holes when I 3-putted my last hole.  So I was very wasted.  They were very tough conditions, but I made it that much more difficult.   
 So today I was just, we had better conditions starting out.  And I was, I've been playing well coming into the tournament and I felt like I would kind of stick my nose in there.  And I shot 4-under the front side, and didn't make birdie on a couple of the par-5s.  And I had it right around the green.   
 Then I had chances on the back nine.  On 11 and 12, I didn't make any birdies downwind.  And then we turned back into the wind coming back against the wind, and I had a good chance for birdie at 16.  And missed it from about 8 feet.   
 And then 17 where I hit it in the water yesterday, I guess I got a little over protective and I pulled it a little bit.  And the ball buried in the face.  I took an unplayable lie and made double.   
 And then parred the last hole.   
 So it was disappointing, I was going along without a bogey, and I didn't make a bogey, but I threw in a double.  But I was pleased that I came back with a solid round.  But I still got a lot of coming back to do after that 80 on the first day.   
  
  Q.  After having played it now a couple of days, what are you looking forward -- what have you learned going into the weekend?   
 D.A. WEIBRING:  Well, I've learned that this really isn't what I should say though, but the golf course in the conditions that you played yesterday, being a links type golf course, really doesn't allow you to bounce the ball on the green.  And that was frustrating to me.  I really was looking forward to playing the golf course and I think there's some good looking stuff out there.  But I don't really understand why the front of the greens are jacked up in the air.   
 And so when you stand out, when you play links type golf, then you always have the option of putting the ball on the ground and chasing it in.  It was disappointing that we couldn't do that here.   
 So, but today we did get some reasonable conditions and if you hit the ball solidly, you could score out there.   
 You need to make your hay on the downwind holes, because you turn, you're going to turn back against it and coming back into it, it's pretty tough.  But the greens are very challenging.  The wind affects them a good bit.  They have got a bit of slope to them so you got to be careful.  But hopefully tomorrow I can go out maybe a little earlier and put a good score up there and sneak back.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT