U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 30, 2005
D.A. Weibring
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You're sneaking up on them quietly.
 D.A. WEIBRING:  Trying to.  I've played pretty well all week, been off for two weeks.  I didn't go to the British Senior, and I feel like I'm getting a little bit better every day.  I made a couple good recoveries on the back side, a couple good par putts that really kind of kept my round going.  I played pretty solid on the front.

I had some chances, a short chance at 2 from five or six feet, maybe less, and missed.

Made a good birdie on 3 from ten feet maybe, missed it from about five feet at 4, made birdie at 5, up by the green in two, had a tough lie, pitched to about 15 feet, made it there.

Good, makeable putt at 6 I missed, 10, 12 feet probably.

7, I drove it in the rough, didn't have much, put it down short of the green, had to kind of play away from the hole, missed about a 15 footer for my first bogey.

And then had a good putt up the hill at 8, missed.

9, almost holed it, landed about a couple inches from the hole, made about a two  or three footer.

10, drove it through the fairway, pretty good tee shot in the rough, hit it in a big sand divot.  I took a pitching wedge and put it back in my stance and it went to the back of the green and I wound up three putting.

Then I came back, wedged it close, maybe four or five feet, at 11, made birdie.

Made a good par putt at 12, drove it in the fairway but missed it off the left fringe.  They had a couple pins on the back today, I'd say 12 was the first candidate, kind of on the front of a Buick or something, but I kind of bladed it out of the fringe by about 10 or 12 feet but made it coming back up the hill.

Hit a good shot at 13, makeable birdie putt from 15 feet, missed it.

Similar at 14, hit a good shot at 15 right behind the hole, landed right over the edge, 18 feet maybe.

Got distracted on my tee shot on 16 and double crossed, pulled it left, played a 4 iron runner up just into the bunker, probably as good as bunker shot as I could have played that went pin high left and made it coming up the hill from 15 feet.  It was a great save for a par.

17, 4 wood and wedge right of the hole with a good look up the hill, made it from 12 feet or so.

And then perfect tee shot at 18 and hit 9 iron just left of the hole and just misread the putt.  I had some good chances.  I was pleased at the par putts I made.  That was probably the highlight of the round.  I had the ball in the fairway the majority of the time and had chances at the greens.  You've just got to keep moving forward on a golf course like this.
Q.  At 16 where were you?
 D.A. WEIBRING:  16 I got ready to hit and a couple of photographers, they kind of jumped inside the ropes to get a picture or two, I guess, but yet our line off 16 tee is more to the right.  It's not straight down the fairway, it's more to the right.  It's my fault, I got it in my head and never got set and hit a bad tee shot.  All my fault.  It was more of a    rather than a bad swing, it was bad concentration.
Q.  What kind of pins do you think they're going to put tomorrow?
 D.A. WEIBRING:  They're heading in that direction.  A couple of the pins starting at 1, on the downslope at 1.  2 was very accessible, a short club today.  I didn't see where they put 3 but had it in the back right corner.  They had a couple pins you could get to, but especially on the back side they were telling me that people had trouble with 10 all day where that hole cup was.

12 was very difficult.  13 was very difficult.

You know, early in the week when it was soft the hardest place to put pins are in the back of the green because it's soft and you spin it back.  But when it gets firm, starts to firm up, the hardest place is in the front of the green.  They started to show a few more of those today.  So there's some tough holes.

You guys talk a lot about it, about protecting the golf course, but I mean, they did everything they can.  It's a nice golf course, they've done a wonderful job this week, but there is a lot of contour to these greens.  Given what's happened before, if they got too hard and fast, they'd get out of control.

So they were trying to monitor that and then they got a couple inches of rain on Wednesday.  They were probably as slow on Thursday for a U.S. Open on Thursday as I've ever seen.  We were in the morning playing early coming off of a lot of weather.  But they didn't panic.  You have nice conditions, there are going to be good scores, I think people like that.  Things are starting to level.  There's going to be good scores and there's going to be scores going the other way.
Q.  Making birdies the last two days will move you up
 D.A. WEIBRING:  I didn't make a birdie the first day and shot 1 under.  I had 16 pars, a bogey and an eagle the first day.  I didn't make my first birdie until the 5th hole the next day.  So two holes, and then I actually made three in a row.  I got off the snide and got a little run going.
Q.  What do you think about your chances?
 D.A. WEIBRING:  Well, I feel good about my chances.  I've played well all year.  I was in the mix a little bit last year.  You know, it's a matter of, as we always say, taking care of our own business.  If I can go out and play well, it's going to be up to me to play a good round tomorrow given the conditions, try to take as much as is out there.  You can't predict, you need to shoot 65 or 66.  You need to just try to get yourself in some rhythm, and if you can get it going, you never know.  I should be in one of the last couple groups I would think.  I think Loren is 11 or 12, I'm not sure.  He's the boss.  He must have awakened that putter and he's played great.

You know, Watson will be there and Stad will be there and Raymond having flashbacks.  I saw him this morning, he's flashing from 69.  It should be a great day of golf and I'm glad I'm in there, sure.
Q.  We know he can obviously play but guys at 62 usually aren't up there.
 D.A. WEIBRING:  Raymond is one of those competitors that he gets excited for the majors.  Watson does, too.  It never surprises me about Raymond.  He's got so much creativity and so much guts, I'm sure it's brought back some good memories for him.  He's kind of gotten going and you kind of get the scent.  He'll be right there tomorrow.
Q.  What do you think about a guy like Roberts out front?
 D.A. WEIBRING:  You know, it's one thing, if you think about being up front, then that just puts more pressure on yourself.  Didn't Loren lose to Ernie in an Open?  I mean, Loren has been there in Opens and whatever, and he's played very well up to his 50th birthday and he's carrying that forward out here.  He's a major champion type of player, drive it in the fairway, put the ball on the green, uses his short game to his benefit.  I'm sure he'll play well tomorrow.  It might be a little bit of pressure having the lead, but he's experienced enough to know he can't do anything about that, we've got to go out there and play.
Q.  Your strategy of taking two weeks off?
 D.A. WEIBRING:  I really enjoy going overseas and playing.  Last year we got stuck in some brutal weather.  I finished 5th at Belle Rive and played pretty well, but I had some things I had to take care of here.  My Uncle Jay who's 86 is not very well, and my mom kind of looks after him, and so we'd like to spend some time    I'm going to Quincy, where they are, tomorrow night.  My wife and my youngest daughter are here.  I was glad I was home for that.  We had some other business things.  I just decided the back to back wasn't my time to go over.  Hopefully we'll get a change for next year.

Thanks, guys.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT