U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 29, 2005
D.A. Weibring
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Well, low round of the afternoon at least.  Tell me about it.
D.A. WEIBRING:  It was interesting.  I played pretty solid yesterday and I shot 1 under par and didn't make a birdie.  I had 16 pars, an eagle and I bogeyed my last hole, No. 9.

So today I kind of wanted to continue some of that, and I got started    actually I missed the first green, made a good save, pitched it to about four feet, made it.

Hit it close on 2, six feet maybe, and missed it.

3, had a good chance, maybe 12 feet or so, missed it.

And 4, I drove it forward through the fairway.  I thought I had a shot and hit a good shot, really played a good shot out of the rough, hit the branch and came down, and then wedged it from 125 yards or something to about four feet and saved a good par.  Sometimes a good save like that

Then I made a little run.  I birdied 5, short of the green, pitched it five, six feet, made it.

Hit a bad tee shot at 6    actually I don't know that hole very well.  I hit it yesterday in the left rough and that's not a place to be, and I pitched it to the right and I didn't know if it was in the native grass.  I actually hit a provisional ball, but it was fine.  I wedged it down there and hit a 7 iron to about 12 feet and made it for birdie.

A good tee shot at 7, in a divot, played a good 8 iron out of the divot to    it might have been about 18 feet and made a good putt there.  I played a good iron shot to there.

8, had a 15 footer off the fringe and didn't make it.

9, hit a 3 wood off the tee, 8 iron just left of the hole, 10, 12 feet, made it.

10, driver and 4 wood on the green, 20 some feet, almost made a big breaking putt.

Wedge on 11 to probably 15, 18 feet behind the hole, two putt.

12, hit it left off the tee, got distracted watching Arnold playing the par 3.  I wanted to wait.  I wasn't really tuned in, hit a 6 iron and pushed it to the right of the green, which was not the place to play, and I was kind of behind the bunker there, and I pitched it past the hole and I happened to make about a 20 footer coming back for par.

I did what I had to do, take my medicine and made the putt.

Then the next few holes I hit it inside 15 feet, at the next hole and missed it, par 3.

Pushed it in the right bunker, made a good up and down at 15    I skipped the par 14.  I hit a good tee shot.  I was in between wedge and sand wedge and tried to take a little pitching wedge and maybe got a little sand.  It skipped near the hole and skipped by the hole 15 feet, and I ran it by about six feet and I missed it coming back.

Right bunker, just pushed a 4 iron in the right bunker, hit it to about four feet, made a good save there.

16, hit it below the hole 18 feet, 20 feet, left it short of the hole.  Hard to get it up that hill.

17, two putts from 20 feet.

18, I was in between clubs.  I hit a good putt coming back.

All in all, I played pretty well.  I'm back in the tournament.  I saw the scores this morning, and I knew they were good scores.  I thought there would be good scores this afternoon.  In the morning it was soft and calm but the greens were a little sticky, and of course we're all thinking about the contours in these greens.  They're going to be faster, and I think it dried up a little bit and guys made some more putts in the afternoon.

I think we're going to see a different golf course on the weekend if it continues to dry up.
Q.  So you're happy but still not
D.A. WEIBRING:  No, I'm satisfied.  I made a nice run.  I had a nice combination of some good shots, a couple good up and downs, made a couple good putts today.  I really didn't make anything yesterday.  But I still can swing better.  I'm close to swinging really good.  I feel like I played pretty well all year, and having two weeks off, I'm going to go to the range and fine tune a couple things.  There's enough good stuff that hopefully it can get better toward this weekend.
Q.  Do you think it'll keep going lower than 9?
D.A. WEIBRING:  What, the lead?
Q.  Well, not today, but how much lower do you think it could go?
D.A. WEIBRING:  Well, number one, it's wind.  If we don't get wind.  And number two, like the putt on 18 I just had, I was surprised.  It had a little more speed to it.  There will be some more good scores.  There will be guys that get started early tomorrow and push up the board and make it tougher for the leaders later.  Wind and firmness of the greens will affect the scores.  We'll have to wait and see.  Hopefully we get two nice days.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT