U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 31, 2004
D.A. Weibring
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
Start us off with your birdies and bogeys on your card, please.
 D.A. WEIBRING:  I started on 10 and actually made a good par at 10.  Hit it right over the top of the flag with a 4-wood actually going in there and played a good pitch down there to two feet, which was a good save on the 12th hole.

Two-putted 11 from 15 feet.

12, I had about an eight-footer, missed it.

13, two-putted from 20 feet.

14, two-putted from 40 feet probably.

15, lipped it out from 20, 25 feet.

16, two-putted from about 25 feet.

17, hit a sand wedge to about three feet, made my first birdie of the day.

18, drove it through the fairway, hit a pretty good tee shot there and went through the fairway into a bad lie, chopped it down just short of the green about 40 yards from the pin and pitched it about a foot, so I made a good save there.

Then 1, I hit driver, 7-iron to about 12 feet and made it, two-putted from 15 feet the next two holes.

4, I drove it in the bunker, so I had to play it up, wound up two-putting from 25 feet.

Then I had a nice run on 5, hit a good tee shot, an 8-iron about a foot.

The par 3, 6, I hit 5-iron, it hit the flag and came down a foot and a half maybe.

Then on 7, I hit 3-wood, 9-iron to about ten feet and made that putt.

Two-putted the last two holes, didn't make any bogeys, didn't miss too many greens.  Played a good solid round.
Q.  You're very much in the championship.  You've got to feel good.  You're young, you're in shape.  You've got to feel good about going into tomorrow.  What might tomorrow bring?
 D.A. WEIBRING:  Well, tomorrow it's going to be hot.  I think today it got a little warmer.  We still had a little breeze out there.  Tomorrow I expect it to be more like St. Louis, and it's going to be a long, tough day.  I think you have to go into it with the mentality you don't warm up as long in the morning, you try to get into a good rhythm thinking the first 18 is your first nine and try and make it as easy on yourself as you can and maybe catch some areas of momentum.

If you can play fairways and greens and make a putt or two, that can really help you in the afternoon round.  I feel good about it.  I'm learning the golf course more every day, and I feel like I'm playing better every day.
Q.  (Inaudible).
 D.A. WEIBRING:  Well, he really was.  I mean, it was a day where we had light breezes, but the wind was kind of back and forth.  It seemed like the first nine holes the wind was in our face every hole, but obviously the golf course was soft and you could certainly get at a few pins if you had the ball in the fairway.

I mean, 18, I hit a pretty tee shot and the wind was kind of coming -- you come out of that chute and the wind pushed it to the right, and if you get some lies in the heavy rough, I could just got it about 100 yards down the fairway.  The key is to put the ball in the fairway.  From there maybe you can attack a few pins and from there you have to handle the greens.

The greens probably were a little slower after the rain yesterday, but with all the sunshine today and I'm sure they'll mow them tonight and tomorrow morning, they'll be getting faster?
Q.  (Inaudible).
 D.A. WEIBRING:  Yeah, it's a great leaderboard.  I'm real proud of my buddy Peter Jacobsen first of all.  It's remarkable to come out and shoot 7-under par the first two days.  He's only walked I think three rounds since he's come back from the injury.  It's really a bad break for him.  I know we've got to be playing 72 holes, and it's a major championship, but it's going to be very hard on him tomorrow.  It's going to be tiring on all of us, but I'm proud of him the way he's played.  I saw him right before I went off the tee, and his last words were, "Play good, we can play together tomorrow."  I thought about that a couple of times.  I couldn't quite get high enough on the leaderboard to get that done, but I made a nice jump.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT