MONTREAL CHAMPIONSHIP
July 3, 2010
D.A. Weibring
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   PHIL STAMBAUGH: D.A., 9-under par 63, the course record now at Fountainbleau and matches your career low. Last time you had 63 on the Champions Tour was 2008. I know after a series of injuries, it's nice to have a round like this. 
 D.A. WEIBRING: It really is. I had an odd finish yesterday, I double-bogeyed the 9th hole with a sand wedge in my hand and shot even par. But more than that, I've been recovering, as most guys out here are -- let me make that clear. I had back and rib issues last year. Didn't play a full schedule. Wasn't healthy when I played. Through the rehab, turns out I developed a left shoulder -- I have a bone spur in my left shoulder. 
 But Doug Miller, he's been on our Tour for many, many years, and I didn't feel great yesterday, I had a hard time getting my left arm back, I was real tight, I got it around, I hit some okay shots, I didn't feel like myself, and I got some therapy last night and again this morning.
 And I told my wife and my caddie before I teed off, I felt like a different person today. I really felt like I had a chance to play some shots and you know, you don't go out and plan on shooting a course record and shooting 63, but I was encouraged about playing today where it kind of started to wear on me a little bit, every day, you don't know how you're going to feel. 
 Last couple of weeks I played okay, in Des Moines I had a good final round. At Dick's Sporting Goods I had a good final round and I was encouraged coming up to Canada; and with the cold weather on Wednesday, Thursday, this felt all of -- my shoulder tightened up.
 So thanks to Doug Miller and the guys in the trailer for giving me a chance. I got off to a good start today, and I made a nice birdie putt on the 10th hole, the par 5. I made a good tee shot, decided to lay up with all the wind, hit a pretty good wedge shot of the hole, maybe 15 feet and went down the hill and I made that putt and that kind of felt good after the way I finished the night before, finishing with double-bogey to get it back right away. I hit a sand wedge about five or six feet, or maybe even closer on the 11th hole. Had a good chance on 13 from about 15 feet, made par. 
 The par 5, I hit driver and hybrid just off the left of the green and chipped it down short of three feet and made that. 
 Hit one of the best shots of the day on 15. Hit a driver and 4-hybrid in there about two feet. So I really hit some good shots and got the ball close to the hole. I followed up at the next hole, 3-wood off the tee, pitching wedge, and I used the backstop behind it, the ball rolled back to about three feet but it was still a straight downhill putt that if you missed the putt, you may knock it by six feet. I still made those, and I holed that putt. 
 I hit a 6-iron on the par 3. The wind was really up in that open space blowing hard and the ball blew up to me there, plugged in the bunker, played a really good bunker shot out to about four feet straight down the hill and made that for par. 
 Driver, 9-iron to about seven or eight feet at the 18th hole and I made that for birdie. My thought was going to the front nine, I think the scoring opportunities are more on the back nine than the front nine and there are some pretty challenging holes on the front nine. 
 I felt good because I was able to make my golf swing, and I hit a good 5-wood off the tee downwind at 1 and was in between my wedges and I hit my middle wedge and started to kind of hook it in there and thought I really clipped it nicely because the ball hung out to the right and stayed just right of the green. But I had a pretty good lie and probably didn't have more than 20 feet to the hole. But I chipped it in, one of the two greens I missed today to chip-in on No. 1, made another birdie. 
 I had it just behind the hole on 2 about ten or 12 feet. I was about 18 feet left of the hole with a pretty good putt on 3. I hit a hybrid that almost went in the hole on the long par 3, 4, maybe eight feet behind the hole and missed it.
 Hit a good drive on 5, but it got just on the edge of the rough in the bunker there, hit a terrible lie and just chopped out of the fairway and still had about 180 yards in there. I hit a 6-iron to about six feet, one of the best shots of the day and I made that for birdie coming down the hill. 
 The long par 3, I hit a three hybrid, one of my better swings of the day and got it back, pin-high, 15 feet, had a real good chance coming down the hill. Hit a good putt. Just missed on the high side. 
 7th hole, the par 5, hit a pretty good tee shot. The wind is coming across left-to-right and the wind got it in the bunker, but I laid it well back of the bunker, just chipped on 8-iron down the five and had a pretty good yardage for a middle sand wedge in there and hit it about eight or ten feet right of the hole pin-high and made that putt. 
 8, I hit in the left rough and had a jumping flyer lie and bounced it into the green and the bounce did roll all the way to the back of the green. That's kind of a two-level green where the first putt was probably 50 feet maybe. It was breaking left and then back to the right and I was getting the play-by-play to the spectators behind me, I thought it was Johnny Miller behind me; "This is a monster putt, he can't handle this one." (Laughter).
 When I hit the putt it felt pretty good and went over the first rice and started breaking to the left which I expected, and it came back to the right and a guy goes, "Oh, no, that's way off. It rolled right on the hill down the line about a foot short of hole. I made that for par. 
 Hit a real good drive and almost got too close to the green, had 69 yards at 9 and I was probably a little bit conservative with the sand wedge, right of the hole, and made a pretty good putt. 
 Glad to be back in the tournament. I know John Cook was 1 under par and it's a great leaderboard. I know it's terrific for Montréal and our sponsors. The Champions Tour is really pleased at the reception that we have received here in the area. The crowds have been enthusiastic, great crowds. I think we'll have a great day tomorrow. I hope the wind calms down a little bit for everybody. 

 Q. You have the course record. Your thoughts? 
 D.A. WEIBRING: It's great. With these players teeing up, it's in jeopardy. It's nice to have it for a day. Who knows how long it will last. 

 Q. Inaudible.
 D.A. WEIBRING: I was really frustrated yesterday because I came off of hitting it even better the last couple of weeks and doing all the rehab, and everybody goes through that. It you guys saw the lineup that goes through the trailer every week, every day; I'll be back in there a little bit. They really do save us each and every week. 
 I did, I felt better, I felt there was a release, I know many my shoulder there's a bone spur and this whole weather -- we all have it, but I couldn't quite get my left arm extended so I couldn't get the club back. So you can't get it back, it's short. 
 But even the first tee shot, my drive on 1, the ball flight was different, and I'm still not 100 percent, but it just felt like I had a chance for success there. And so I had a good frame of mind going out there and I kind of want to get back in the tournament and I want to get to double digits. That was my goal. 
 I've got a little bit of work to do tomorrow. 
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: Have you been to Montréal before? 
 D.A. WEIBRING: First time. Very French. Very French. We are going to Toronto end of the year. We did quite well when we played here -- I've always heard the golf course was great. I'm a little bit surprised on how French Montréal really is. 

 Q. Did you have to make any long putts to save par today? 
 D.A. WEIBRING: I really didn't. I think the only two greens I missed were No. 1, and then the other was right out of the bunker on 17. I hit most of the fairways, just missed a couple here and there. 
 So really, it really was -- I mean windy conditions, it wasn't easy out there by any means, but I gained some confidence. Felt encouraged that I could swing the club, and it was nice to feel that, that momentum. It's been a little while. 

 Q. Inaudible.
 D.A. WEIBRING: You know, I think it's weather related. I think it's wind related. The golf course will give up some good scores. It's a very -- it's a very interesting golf course. It's in very good shape. The greens are in very good shape. Guys can get after the par 5s. So it's hard to say, where John finishes today, 12 or 13, it could go crazy. 
 But for the tournament, you have a very good leaderboard and some great players the fans want to see, Craig and John Cook, and I haven't seen all of the board but should make for a good day. I'm happy to be in the mix. 
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: Thank you.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT