SENIOR BRITISH OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 26, 2003
D.A. Weibring
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  D.A. Weibring, who follows up his 63 yesterday with a 65 today.  D.A., Just a couple thoughts generally about your round, and then we'll go hole by hole.

D.A. WEIBRING:  We had another great day of weather.  This was better than yesterday.  I really felt starting off that there would be some low scores.  I thought the committee might tuck the pins a little bit more.  They did tuck a few more.  I knew I had to play a good aggressive round and felt very good the way I struck the ball, probably only missplayed a shot or two all day and feel pretty good about 65.

(Score card done.)

D.A. WEIBRING: It was a good solid round, and I like the way I'm playing going into the final round.  I hear we expect a little wind tomorrow; is that right? 

MODERATOR:  Okay, let's go to questions.  Raise your hand and I'll call on you. 


Q.  Was it a good decision to lay up short of the bunkers at 17?

D.A. WEIBRING: Yeah, I think it was.  My caddy is a local here.  He's caddied here for 14 years and had a lot of respect for those bunkers.  He's had me playing conservative off the tee a number of times.  I kind of wanted to hit driver.  There is room to drive it down the left-hand side there.  I think sometimes the caddies get a little cautious, and there is times to go and times to lay out.  He's done a really good job this week; really had a good feel for the greens especially.


Q.  What did you hit at 18?

D.A. WEIBRING: 18, I hit 4-wood.  I really haven't known what to hit.  I thought I made a mistake yesterday.  I hit 3-wood the first two days down the right side.  If I were to hit the 3-wood well, hit it through the fairway, yesterday, in looking back, the wind was more with us.  I should have hit a driver over the bunkers and made the hole play short.  Today the wind was not so much helping us.  It was more cost.  So, I chose 4-wood today.  It was a good choice for me.


Q.  What is your caddie's name?

D.A. WEIBRING: Lee, I'm not sure.  I'm not sure his of his last name.  He calls me boss.  I wish I had a pound for every time he called me boss.


Q.  Watson has been in those bunkers each of the last two days?

D.A. WEIBRING: He's been in the bunkers on 18?  On 17?  You can't see the bunker off the tee and you kind of pick your target line up there.  Yesterday, I hit a pretty good tee shot.  I was fortunate the ball got around in the right, and I knocked it up and made birdie.  He felt pretty strongly about the 3-wood today.  I went with it.  The local caddies are used to telling their player how to play the golf course, rather than, you know, providing information.  And we have had a few laughs. 

As a matter of fact on 16, I was up hitting first and hit 4-iron yesterday, and followed by hitting 5-iron today.  I talked to him about this, but he said the 5-iron, no chance.  I said, never say no chance.  Say, I like this club better than this club.  I put it in the back bunker, and he saved my ass.  I really enjoyed his enthusiasm.  I think he's sleeping in the caddy hut there.  He's there every time I get there.  He's pretty excited about the week.  He's done a great job.  It's all part of the whole experience of coming here and playing.


Q.  Did Carl say anything about playing with Jack and Tom?

D.A. WEIBRING: I asked him about it.  He enjoyed it.  He said they reflected a little bit on '77.  They talked about putts or shots.  He said he enjoyed it.  I think they were redesigning part of the Back 9 he said.  He really enjoyed it.  Carl played very well today.  He finished up well.  He made a great decision, as it turned out, on 13.  He hit iron off the tee.  He may relook that decision, but he hit it in the gorse and took a long time and thought he couldn't get it out and took a drive and almost made par. 

He hung right in there and played well after that.  Really rolling his little broom handle quite well.

MODERATOR:  Anything else? 

D.A. WEIBRING:  Thank you. 

MODERATOR:  Thank you. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT