U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 7, 2007
D.A. Weibring
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  D.A. WEIBRING:  There may be only two other scores under par.  I mean, the pin placements were edgy today in a few places.  And the greens got very firm, very quick.  And obviously this is the most wind we have had.  It's a hard golf course. 

 Q.  Did the wind make a difference out there today? 
 D.A. WEIBRING:  You know, not too much.  It maybe twisted a little bit here and there, but we started off, it was right-to-left on one.  And that's the way it is now.  It may have changed from earlier in the day. 

 Q.  (Inaudible.) 
 D.A. WEIBRING:  Yeah, well I tell you, there was a cool breeze down there near the water, about 15 degrees cooler.  It really did feel like air conditioning. 

 Q.  What's it going to be like tomorrow? 
 D.A. WEIBRING:  Hotter and windier tomorrow.  I can just guess where the pins are going to be.  I mean, that's the problem.  When you push it to the edge, the conditions are always going to dictate, you know. 
 And we were standing on the tee on 17 and the wind is howling at you 25 miles an hour, you know, and you know if you hit it and try and keep it down low and get it up in the air it's going to go left.  You really have to play some unbelievable shots just to kind of keep it in play. 

 Q.  What did you hit there? 
 D.A. WEIBRING:  I tried to hit my 5-wood and kind of a strong 5-wood.  And it wasn't enough.  Kirk hit 3-wood and hit it pretty hard.  And so I knew there was kind of a mowed area there short and right of the green and I was -- and I was trying to miss there.  And I was fortunate to get up-and-down.  But, yeah, it's tough. 

 Q.  Do you go into tomorrow thinking about hang on more than trying to make up ground? 
 D.A. WEIBRING:  You really need to take your opportunities when they're presented.  You can't go out and plan on shooting a low score.  But if you can go out and you can be assertive, I mean Watson is the perfect player for this type of golf, because of all the things he does well, I think what he does the best is he gets committed.  He gets committed on every shot and picks his line and goes.  And that's the way you have to play golf in general.  But especially in tough conditions and with trouble every where. 
 I wasn't sure off the tee today, you know, hit a 3-wood, a 5-wood.  And I kind of swung my 5-wood like I had handcuffs on.  Trying to put it down there.  And blocked it and put it in the bunker and chipped it out and made five. 
 You can't do that.  And it's going to get you here and there.  You can't beat yourself up for it.  But you got to stay committed on what you want to do. 
 I hit it very well yesterday, and I actually did hit it pretty well on Thursday.  Today I wasn't quite as -- I still played a lot of good shots today and I got in trouble. 
 I birdied 1 and then hit it, tried to be aggressive on 2, kind of trying to hit a hook down there with the wind and pulled it a little bit.  And I got it in the long grass and moved it about that far.  And then got it out in the fairway and actually knocked it on the green then from 215 or 220 yards and 3-putted.  And so I make double.  But you get it in that grass and what do you do?  You can't say, "I give".  You know, the only other choice is to take an unplayable. 

 Q.  (Inaudible.) 
 D.A. WEIBRING:  If the wind blows the same way, you got to throw 15 in there too, because 15 is playing -- Kirk hit a pretty good drive on 15, pulled it a little bit and it went through the fairway.  We thought it mate have gone in the bush, and it didn't.  But you know, that was a driver and a 4-iron the other day.  And we both hit good drives and 3-woods, just trying to lay it up in the neck and have maybe 65 yards or something for the third shot on 16.  But that was the birdie hole, maybe a chance to make an eagle earlier in the week.  Now it's a tough golf hole. 
 17, I'm guessing they're going to have the pin back.  I think if the wind blows real hard they probably need to move the tees up, because no matter where you play, I mean that's not an easy shot.  But maybe it doesn't need to play 240.  You know.  Against the wind. 

 Q.  Come on now.  It was 288 at Oakmont. 
 D.A. WEIBRING:  Yeah, exactly.  They can have that. 

 Q.  The conditions today, if they were relatively the same, if they're the same tomorrow, how far back can somebody come from here? 
 D.A. WEIBRING:  They can be back a long ways.  They can be back six or eight shots and go out and shoot a really good score, shoot whatever a really good score is tomorrow, it's kind of relative.  67, 66, 68, whatever that number is. 
 And you can go out there and play pretty well and shoot 75 or 76.  I mean, that can happen to anybody at any time. 
 So you just get here and you see what the conditions are and take it one step at a time. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT