U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 6, 2007
D.A. Weibring
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  I would like to think that that 4-under is a pretty special day?   
   D.A. WEIBRING: Yeah, it was a great day to play. It was great with the light breeze here. And I played well yesterday and made a couple of mistakes here and there. Of course, when you get it off the track here, get it in some bunkers, it's pretty hard to recover.   



 But today I really drove the ball well, I kept the ball in play and made four birdies and no bogeys.  Which whenever you can get around this course without any bogeys -- it doesn't matter what you shoot, but if you do that you feel pretty good about that.   
  
  Q.  I noticed the wrap.   
   D.A. WEIBRING: Well, I've got problems with both my wrists. I've got torn ligaments on my left. I taped it. I had surgery here in '89, a ganglion cyst. I got another ganglion cyst inside the bone. So I tape it just to kind of support my wrist as the day goes on. It kind of loosens up as the day goes on. But that's tough surgery; it's inside the bone.   
  
  Q.  You probably like your position looking at the leaderboard and knowing you played when you did.   
   D.A. WEIBRING: I do. I know the lead is 8, and I saw the board coming in here, but we have got 36 more holes, who knows what the weather will bring.   



 It's supposed to be warm.  I'm not sure if that means windy.  But it's a very difficult golf course, and we have had mild conditions for two days, and we'll see what happens on the weekend.   
 I think the set-up has been fair.  But you really have to put the pins someplace.  And the golf course plays difficult.   
 But I feel like I'm playing well.  I made a couple of adjustments in my putting.  I think it's starting to pay off, so I'm encouraged by going to the weekend.   
  
  Q.  No 3-putts at all?   
 D.A. WEIBRING:  No.   
  
  Q.  What did you do exceptionally well?   
   D.A. WEIBRING: Yeah, I hit the ball very well for two days and I drove the ball well. Even though I missed maybe a couple of fairways here and there, the ball was hit where I was looking the majority of the time.   



 I made a couple bogeys yesterday where I just didn't, I had a couple bad lies and had to kind of play safe.   
 But I made four birdies.  I had other good chances.  I made a good recovery that kind of kept my round going playing the back nine first, shot 2-under.   
 I made a good par at 18.  Hit a 5-iron in heavy and came up in a place where I could hit it just short of the green and got that up-and-down.   
 And then the 4th hole, real good driving hole.  I thought I hit a perfect shot down the right side of the fairway and it must have hit something and kicked to the right into one of the narrow little bunkers.  And I really didn't have a play.  I was able to get a pitching wedge down the fairway and got it up-and-down from about 50 yards.  Made about a 10-footer.  So that was really, that wasn't a birdie, but that was kind of like making a birdie.   
 Then I kept it going and then I did come back and birdie the next hole, the par-5.  I made a 6-footer.   
 And then I made a nice birdie at the last hole.   
 So I hit a number of I had a number of good chances and played real solid.   
  
  Q.  We seem to see you a lot at the top of the leaderboard at the U.S. Senior Open.  Do these difficult golf courses bring out the best in your game?   
   D.A. WEIBRING: I feel like through the years you've got to drive the ball straight and I think that's one of my strengths.   



 I've had a couple pretty good chances the last couple years at the U.S. Open and haven't gotten it done.  And so I want to keep putting myself in that position and maybe it will work out for me on Sunday.   
  
  Q.  Most of the other scores were posted in the morning.  What were the conditions out there this afternoon and was it windier?   
   D.A. WEIBRING: I think a little breeze came up. It still was a nice day, but a little breeze came up from what I heard. I guess maybe after the storm, the guys finished this morning in pretty mild conditions. There were some pretty good scores up there.   



 And they had some fresh greens, they might have been a little softer after the rain.  But still we had good scoring conditions this afternoon.  But the greens started to get a little firmer as the day went on and of course there was that much more traffic on them.  Some guys had to play 27 holes today.   
 But the golf course is in great shape.  Just a challenging golf course.   
  
  Q.  When did you finish your first round?   
 D.A. WEIBRING:  I played yesterday morning.  So I was done.  We teed off about 2 o'clock today.     
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT