SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 26, 2007
D.A. Weibring
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  How did you do today?  It was much better than the first two days obviously. 
 D.A. WEIBRING:  I played pretty good yesterday.  I shot 70 yesterday with a double bogey on 17.  Plugged in the face of whatever that thing is left of the green.  We don't call it a bunker.  No, I have, I didn't play that poorly, actually, on Thursday.  We teed off late and we were into the wind and I really didn't putt very well.  I 3-putted my first couple holes out of the box.  And then I 3-putted my final couple holes.  So it really was more putting.  I just didn't get steady in the wind on Thursday and I was trying to put the best score up and 80 was the best score I had. 
 But yesterday I played very well, I didn't make a bogey.  I was 4-under.  And I made five on 17 on Thursday, and I pulled my 4-iron a little bit and it buried in the face and I made five yesterday.  So I shoot 80, 70.  
 Today I played pretty much the same as I played on Friday.  I played real steady, drove the ball well, gave myself a lot of good chances.  And not sure I missed, if I missed any greens they were on the fringe.  And I still could putt the ball.  But I birdied 3 from about 12 feet. 
 I birdied -- I 2-putted for birdie at 7.  Par-5.  From about 35 or 40 feet. 
 Then I birdied 9 from about six feet.  Maybe less. 
 Then 10 I had a good chance at 10. 
 I made birdie at 11.  I hit it by the green and didn't hit a real good chip and made about a maybe 18 footer or so. 
 Good chance at 13 and missed it from 12 feet. 
 I hit it about five feet at 14 with a 4-iron.  A really good shot there.  Made that putt. 
 15, I 2-putted, then made a good second putt there. 
 16, very difficult, very disappointed.  I hit a he really good shot on the right side.  Laid up right in the neck of the fairway.  Where all the sand has blown out there of the bunkers.  Or the thing there, whatever it is.  And I was always concerned having a kind of sandy lie from about 95 yards, but I played a pitching wedge that I played a really good shot and it hit on the back of the green, I couldn't tell you how it did it, but it crawled just over the back fringe.  So I had about a 20 footer coming off the fringe straight downhill, downwind, and I left it short about I don't know, five, six feet. 
 It was one of those putts that if you really got it running you could putt it right in the bunker or the thing.  Whatever this is.  And he left it short five or sex feet.  I hit a really good second putt and it just crawled over the edge, didn't go in. 
 I did bounce back, I hit a good 6-iron to about five feet at 17. 
 Good tee shot at 18, but just got through the edge of the fairway.  And hit a 6-iron below the hole about 25 or 30 feet.  And ran it by two and a half feet, maybe.  And it did a 360 and came back around.  I thought I hit a pretty good second putt.  But it's very disappointing to 3-putt two of the last three, obviously.  I mean, even from the fringe on 17. 

 Q.  Are the conditions milder enough today that perhaps are you in a position where you gave yourself a chance for tomorrow or do you think that the scores are not going to likely to come back? 
 D.A. WEIBRING:  I think, I think there will be some good scores, there's going to be a variety.  But the conditions are certainly reasonable.  It's a nice day.  But there's still some wind out there.  It's not like we're playing in a tunnel.  I mean look at the flags and they're still pumping pretty good.  But I do, I do think that there will be some good scores.  I think that Eduardo is going pretty good.  I think Crenshaw is going pretty good.  Nick Price.  The leaders may be protecting their position a little bit where we were trying to move forward.  It is moving day.  So I'm trying to get the thing back in the red numbers and I was close after being eight over on Thursday. 
 So I need to keep doing what I'm doing tomorrow and try to keep going forward.  You never know what's going to happen in something like this.  You have these really potential disasters waiting around this golf course.  With not, I might add, with not real bad shots.  And I mean Bruce Fleisher, the shot got away from him a little bit on 17, he plugged it in the face, made a 12-footer for five.  And then you have a swing of four or five shots on any hole.  So it's all wind related around here. 

 Q.  When you doubled 17 the first two days, have you, are you able to put that out of your mind and -- you seemed to do that today, you seemed to really not let that affect you. 
 D.A. WEIBRING:  You try to.  It's you try just to play a shot.  At that time I mean under that situation.  The more you allow the other circumstances to creep in, where you stand in the tournament, how many under par you are or all those other factors, now the quality of your shot has a great chance of going down hill.  And so we all talk about trying to play shot for shot.  That really is what has to happen.  And I was able to, the first bogey of the day, the 3-putt there at 16, you know, I hit a good tee shot, I hit a good layup, and I hit a good wedge and the first putt kind of bounced out of the fringe and I hit a good second putt.  So I was disappointed I made six, but I didn't really hit a bad shot. 
 So I was determined to play a good shot there.  I wasn't going to bail out.  And my caddie, Troy, said I knew you were going to make a good swing there.  And I said, I've been making good swings all day.  But it's over water and there's wind and if you pull it a little bit it's going to go in that bunker you're going to be on the concrete down below or you're going to be stuck in the face. 

 Q.  You mentioned that shot out there.  Put your architect's hat on and I wonder why things are done the way they are and what are the things you see? 
 D.A. WEIBRING:  Well, I have got a lot of respect for Pete.  I think he's very creative.  The strategy, the angles, I would have loved to have seen the property before he started it.  I know he's kind of reworked it a couple times.  It's a beautiful setting. 
 The disappointing thing to me is that they made a choice to keep the -- I'm not sure they're always like that those faces.  They made a choice to have those faces soft and therefore there's also a choice that the bottoms are hard.  Pete also made a choice that he wasn't going to allow us to bounce the ball into the greens.  That's probably the most disappointing thing. 
 Now, I heard that there was feedback if wind comes up we can water the whole time.  I think that's a great idea.  But that has to affect the fact that you're going to get 30 to 40 miles an hour wind here.  That's the beauty of links golf when you play overseas, is that you always have the option to put the ball on the ground and chase it in.  And that's what I love about design and that's what we try to create in the golf courses that we do is to leave the choices up to the players, don't have the architect make all the choices. 
 And, I mean, obviously, with the 14th green elevated, and the third green and there are some beautiful holes.  I can step back and look at what he's created and what he's done and it's remarkable.  The tree selection, what he's left and how he's put things in.  And the angles.  And I appreciate all that.  I'm just disappointed that there aren't some more greens down on the ground that you could chase the ball into.  And I know it's a choice. 
 Now, this is really the first time we played stroke play here.  But the Ryder Cup was here and the UBS Cup and that those are all match play events.  This is a stroke play event.  And maybe that's perfect for match play to have all these disasters.  But it's another thing when you look at what happened to Ben Crenshaw, he was 6-under par, he hits it in that bunker.  And we looked at it all week of, how do you get it on, how do you get it out of that thing there.  I mean, I'm not sure it's doable. 
 Maybe that was part of his plan, I don't know.  That's what I would like to have seen I would like to have seen those faces done differently.  And I think there has to be a little sand in the bottom of the things.  So you can play, so.  Anyway. 

 Q.  (Inaudible.) 
 D.A. WEIBRING:  It was my birthday.  Yeah, we did.  We had dinner with my lovely wife, we got together with Peter and Jan Jacobsen and Mike O'Connell, he's from my hometown, he works here.  My caddie was tied up.  But we had a little, we had some fajitas and a little cake and went home.  So we were hanging around for the weekend.  Peter and I thought we were both down the road with 79 and 80 of the so we hung in there. 

 Q.  (Inaudible.) 
 D.A. WEIBRING:  Well, you just, on a golf course like this I guess 30 years of experience tells you anything can happen.  But I knew coming in here that I was playing well.  And I like this type of golf.  Option golf.  I was taken a back a little bit when I saw some of the shots, you know, you're at the mercy of the wind. 
 And I didn't hit the ball poorly on Thursday, I made some mistakes, but I really putted poorly.  And that's where my score got away.  But I just knew that we got a reasonable, I knew if we got a reasonable nice morning yesterday, I knew I would have a chance to get started again and I knew I just had to go play. 
 I had some momentum, I was disappointed that I lost a little bit of it and I did the same thing today, I lost a couple shots coming in at the end.  But who knows what tomorrow will bring.  How much wind we'll have and that.  The forecast looks pretty good.  But we'll come back and try again tomorrow. 

 Q.  Your group went I think what, minus six today out of all three of you.  How was it for all three of y'all to have a pretty good outing today? 
 D.A. WEIBRING:  Well it was good.  I think we, you know, we play off our partners, and when guys are driving the ball in the fairway and having good birdie chances there's a little momentum.  And you know, we all played pretty well.  Bruce was going well.  We both finished off bogey, bogey, I think.  But none of us necessarily finished the way we would have liked to.  I would liked to have finished more solidly. 
 But we didn't have any rulings and it was an enjoyable day of golf.  We weren't calling for officials.  Which you can do, I mean, that happened to us the first couple day, we had a lot of rulings.  We were trying to tip toe around the disasters. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT