TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 23, 2018
Paul Stawarz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Paul, what if anything, do you allow yourself to remember about Iowa State two years ago?
PAUL STAWARZ: It was an interesting game for me.  One, it was cold, but it's kind of close to my home, so it's great that some family gets to go out and see.  Obviously, the last time we went there, it wasn't the best.  We know that we've learned from it.  So hopefully, this week I'm going to have a better taste in my mouth leaving that place.
Q. Is a little part of you glad that it's an 11:00 a.m. game for the first time so you can kind of get in there, get out, and not worry about the night of Ames?
PAUL STAWARZ: Yeah, that's always a thing playing on the road, playing at night.  I think me personally and the group of guys we have, where we're trying to not -- when we play is not really an issue.  We're trying to kind of go in with the mindset of no matter when the game is, we'll be ready to go.
Q. And for your offensive line, how do you think the new guys have worked in with the injury issues that you've had at that position?
PAUL STAWARZ: The guys we have, I mean, we're all ready to play, and we've all taken reps at a lot of positions.  I think you said injuries, right?  Yeah, I mean, we have a lot of depth, which is something we haven't had in the past, and having all that and having guys being able to play, like Dawson and Hines and having Madison ready, that's helpful for all of us because guys can swing and play multiple positions if need.
Q. How do you think just the offensive line has progressed going into -- going up against one of the best defenses in the Big 12?
PAUL STAWARZ: Yeah, it's definitely a big challenge for us this week.  We've watched a lot of film on them.  We know what they bring.  Their effort stands out, and I think that's why they're up there as the best defense, just by how hard they play.
Our coach has really harped on finishing blocks and playing past the whistle with a team like this, so staying focused with that.  It's something we're going to have to really harp on this week.
Q. What have you noticed specifically about that D-line that could pose problems for you guys?
PAUL STAWARZ: They have a really good D-line.  I remember last year, their nose guards, very good player.  They have some length at the D-end, and also they have depth.  So they have a really good unit there.  It will be a really good opponent for us to see how we match up well.
We're confident in our O-line, and I'm pretty sure they're confident in their D-line, so it will be a really good game.
Q. Kliff said that against Kansas the running backs left a couple more yards that could have been gained on the field.  How much responsibility do you guys take for that, and what have you been working on to help those guys?
PAUL STAWARZ: We definitely left some opportunities there to get more yards.  We all work together, the running backs and O-line.  It's really no one's fault, kind of just knowing what was left there and trying to improve on that going forward.  But knowing what we can do and could have done hurts, so knowing that going forward, I think the O-line and the running backs will kind of be aware of that.
Q. You mentioned two years ago, but last year was frustrating for the offense as well.  I mean, I know you've talked about how good they are, but what specifically have they done the last two years that have frustrated you guys so much?
PAUL STAWARZ: They have -- they've really got things going in the right direction these last few years.  As I mentioned earlier, just how hard they play.  I think that's the big factor.  They're tough players.  They're physical.  They're trying to get one-on-one matchups, so you really see who's the bigger man.  I think that's the big thing that stood out these last two years.  Kind of watching previous film and watching their games this year, I think that's the thing that sticks out the most.
Q. From your perspective, what makes Ames such a difficult place to play?  It seems like no matter who the competition is, where they're ranked, what Iowa State's record is, it's always tough to play there?
PAUL STAWARZ: Yeah, it definitely is.  I personally think it's the fans.  I went to school in Iowa for a little bit, so I know how those people can be.  I think it's a great atmosphere.  Especially times like these, a lot of them are kind of shirtless in the 20 degree weather.  I think that culture and that atmosphere there, it's a great place to play, and it can be intimidating for some opponents.
Q. Does the crowd there really affect the communication at defensive line or anything like that?
PAUL STAWARZ: I mean, how loud it is, just on the road it's always something you've got to kind of pay attention to no matter where you play.  Ames is always pretty loud.  So really just kind of making sure everyone's on point and getting the communication across is definitely key in a game like this upcoming week.  At home you don't really -- communication is important, but it's easier to do when you got the fans on your side.
Q. What will you be going as for Halloween?
PAUL STAWARZ: Oh, geez, I haven't even thought of that yet.  I know last year you guys got me I was a Whoopie cushion one year, so I might bring that back.
Q. Suppose you ever try going shirtless in the 20 degree weather?  What is it in the DNA of the people up there?
PAUL STAWARZ: Not anymore, being in this Texas heat.  I've definitely lost being able to handle the cold.  I haven't, and I don't really plan on it either.
Q. More serious question.  How did you handle last week or the last couple of weeks, I guess being in the concussion protocol?  How do you feel like you bounced back?
PAUL STAWARZ: Yeah, that was new to me.  I've been fortunate enough to have none in my career so far.  So having that, it was definitely weird, but I'm feeling really good.  I feel good about the whole process.  The trainers here have taken great care of me and done all they can.  I think things are going pretty well.
Q. How long did you have symptoms?
PAUL STAWARZ: It was definitely an interesting few days.  I'd say a few days, nothing too severe.
Q. Did it in practice, is that right?
PAUL STAWARZ: Yes.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT