PLAYSTATION FIESTA BOWL: OHIO STATE VS CLEMSON
December 27, 2016
Cordrea Tankersley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  It seems like you guys are in the National Championship every year.  What does it say about the legacy that you seniors have left at Clemson?  
CORDREA TANKERSLEY: It shows that we left a great legacy.  There's a lot of holes here at Clemson that we want to fill.  Coach, he instilled a lot of plans for us to help us succeed.  And then we also have the players who wanted to fill those holes.  We had people who had those once.   
Also with our leadership and people who just want to be a great program and just wanting to put this program at the top, and I think we're doing a great job of that so far.   
 Q.  How do you instill the new standard at Clemson in the younger players so it's carried on?  
CORDREA TANKERSLEY: Like it's just coming from our leadership.  Kind of like not treating them like freshmen, if that makes sense.  Just lifting them up, trying to treat them as equal as the person you are.  I think that also goes with our coaches going out and recruiting the right people, people who are fit for this program, and I think it shows.   
 Q.  Talk a little bit about being back in Arizona, just kind of not necessarily getting the bad taste out of your mouth of last year's game, but just getting out here getting a win?  
CORDREA TANKERSLEY: I love it out here.  It's absolutely beautiful.  Like you said we left with a bad taste in our mouth but that was last year.  It's a new year.   
We want to come out and finish the right way.  We kind of limped to the line last year.  So we just want to like sprint to the line, finish the right way, have no regrets.   
To have some time out here, out west, away from Clemson, I think it will be good for us.   
 Q.  Being a senior citizen of this defensive backfield, how does it feel to kind of teach these other guys, these younger guys (indiscernible) progression these guys have made throughout the season, be prepared for a game like this?  
CORDREA TANKERSLEY: I just kind of instill at the end of the day it's football.  It's what you've been playing your whole life since you were little.  It's what got you here.  Of course everybody here is good.  Use your talent and the ability that God gave you and you should be fine.   
I think what also helped them is knowing the playbook and watching a lot of film because that will help you play fast.  You'll see a formation you won't be overwhelmed.  You'll know how to adjust to it.  So I think that's what we try to install to our secondary, will help us play fast.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible)?  
CORDREA TANKERSLEY: I think he's a great player.  I think he's their everything.  He's a good player.  He's well-deserving of the attention he's getting.  We just have to -- he's the head of the snake.  We just have to cut off the head of the snake.  But he also has other players that complement him.  We have to keep our eyes on them as well, but he's the great player we have to keep our eyes on.   
 Q.  You talked about the other snake and the other players.  Got very good, talented back team.  They like to run the rocket, Ohio State.  With regards to being a defensive back, how do you prepare yourself for a team (indiscernible)?  
CORDREA TANKERSLEY: We just have to do -- we have our guy, we stick to our guy.  We have to let our "D" linemen and linebackers handle that.  And Coach V will make those adjustments during the game.   
We have to be down there and do what we do best playing football.  It's going to be a physical game, it's going to be by far our greatest task.  I think we're up for it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT