PAC-12 WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 3, 2016
Dawnyelle Awa
Mariah Cooks
June Daugherty
Taylor Edmondson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








USC - 77, WSU - 73
THE MODERATOR: We welcome the Washington State Cougars with head coach June Daugherty, Dawnyelle Awa, Taylor Edmondson and Mariah Cooks.  Coach, an opening statement and then questions.
JUNE DAUGHERTY: Yeah, first of all, thank you to the Pac-12.  Once again a phenomenal experience for our student-athletes, the city of Seattle, obviously Key Arena for hosting this.  It's the best tournament in women's basketball in the country, and we really, really appreciate the Pac-12 and the fans.  You know, this is a tough loss for us.  Like many of our games this year, it comes down to a single possession, and we've come out on the short end of that so many times this year.  That being said, congratulations to USC, and we wish them well as they move forward and advance in the tournament.  I think that I've been really very, very fortunate to have four seniors in this program.  Three of them are sitting here right now who have led this young group.  Half our team are freshmen and sophomores.  They have led them to kind of the ups and downs and all the last-possession games that we've gone through this year.  I think it speaks volumes to their characters.  They've improved so much in this program.  They've led this program to post-seasons in their four years, and they've really helped us grow our program, so I can't say enough about these three that are up here, as well as Alexas Williamson, our fourth senior in the program.  But tonight, like I said, to me it was reminiscent of how the season has been with all the tight ballgames and last possessions.  Unfortunately, tonight, we came out on the short end.
Q. June, in these close games, how much of it comes down to things like in your control such as free throws tonight?
JUNE DAUGHERTY: Yeah, obviously you think about the missed box out, you think about the missed scout coverage on out of bounds plays.  As a coach it's going through your mind, when you're this close, and it's just one or two things that we weren't able to accomplish and get it done or I think we'd be a lot happier right now, and it would be a different locker room and different feeling.  But it is what it is.  Again, I can't praise our four seniors enough for how much they've improved and how they've taken this program to make it as competitive as they have done that, and to get us to postseason two of their four years.
Q. What are you guys going to take away from your stint as Washington Cougars?  Coach mentioned the success you've had on campus going to two postseason tournaments and really putting together a good showing here tonight with a tough loss.  What stands out to you from your time in Pullman?
MARIAH COOKS: First, like life-long friendships and sisters that I've made during my time here, and also just what it means to be a leader.  I've grown as a leader in my four years.  It's been amazing to be a part of this program, part of the Pac-12, Washington State women's basketball.  Yeah, it's taught me a lot.  I'm very thankful for my experience here.
DAWNYELLE AWA: I'd say the same.  Life long sisters.  We're super close.  I'm so thankful for this opportunity I have with Coach Daugherty and playing in the Pac-12.
TAYLOR EDMONDSON: Mine, I would say the same.  It's crazy how much I've grown since my freshman year.  If you would look at me my freshman year I'd probably be talking into the microphone like these three are talking but immature.  I've grown physically and mentally.  To be a senior on this team and be around my teammates who have shaped me on and off the court, I'm so blessed for it.  I'm with great people each and every day, and it can't get much better than that.  So I'm really thankful for all I've experienced, the good and the bad.  I'm thankful for the opportunity.
Q. What kind of adjustments did you guys make or try to make inside against Temi specifically and rebounding in general?
JUNE DAUGHERTY: Yeah, I think at halftime she had nine boards.  And we talked a lot about -- I thought her help was good in the first half.  We rotated pretty well.  But when the shot went up, we didn't do a good job of getting back out, especially on her, finding her.  She's a tremendous player.  But keeping her off the glass, it's a tough assignment, but it's something I think that we could have done a much better job on.
Q. Do you feel that what she was doing inside sort of opened up the three-pointer for Courtney or vice versa?  How did their inter-play happen?
JUNE DAUGHERTY: With Jaco?  Yeah, it certainly was a factor.  We were rotating in it in our match-up and playing our man-to-man as well.  There were a couple times that we helped when we shouldn't have helped and gave her an easy look to get going on the outside and kind of checked for her.  Once she gets one, she's going to get a bunch.  Tremendous, obviously, three-point shooter.  But a lot of it did have to do with how good their front line performed tonight.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT