WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 17, 2007
Craig Kanada
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  No bogies; is that right?   
 CRAIG KANADA:  I didn't realize that.  It's always good, you see a lot of pars and birdies, you kind feed off each other and good things happen.   
  
  Q.  Do the soft greens making you guys go right at the pins, is that the deal out here?   
 CRAIG KANADA:  Soft greens.  Also the firm fairways and, you know, somewhat of a lack of rough as well.  You can get away with some wayward drives and you know you're going to have a lot of short irons to soft greens and it's going to play to a lot of birdies.   
 Also the greens are actually flatter than they used to be and so they're a little bit -- you can make some more putts.   
  
  Q.  What do you mean by flatter, literally just flatter?   
 CRAIG KANADA:  Yeah.  Where they put the pins there's going to be less break.  The old greens they put them on some tiers and faster because they were obviously different time of year as well, broke more and little tougher to make some putts but I know this year with the slower greens and softer greens it's going to be a lot more putts being made.   
  
  Q.  On the weekend, you guys, obviously scoring really seems like -- just keep that up here Saturday and Sunday.  Is that how it looks like it's shaping up?   
 CRAIG KANADA:  I got to drive better.  I didn't have a good driving day.  I was fortunate out of the rough and pulled a bunker shot.  Everything really went well for me today.  If I want to continue that I need to drive it better and then continue to make some putts.   
  
  Q.  Where are you on the FedEx?   
 CRAIG KANADA:  104.  Really, you know, you want to be up there as much as possible.  You want to get in the Top-30 and have a shot at it in the last week there and so a good week here would go a long ways.   
  
  Q.  You're in a group like that, do you feed off each other, do you notice everybody is playing well or just kind of focus on what you're doing?   
 CRAIG KANADA:  It's always good to see birdies.  We all kind of shared it today.  So it was a lot of fun and it's funny how that does happen, but, you know, it's a lot better than seeing guys make bogies.  Let's put it that way with the rough.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT