U.S. OPEN
September 7, 2008
Devin Britton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  G. DIMITROV/D. Britton
6-4, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Qualified to get into the final. Talk about it. 
 DEVIN BRITTON: It's definitely a good effort to get to the finals for me. I'm really happy with my tournament. 
 Would've been nice to win today, but Grigor played a great match. It was tough. But just to got to the finals, it's -- I was definitely happy with my tournament.

 Q. With the style that you play, you're attacking and volleying, you look out and see so few in the pro ranks. Does that give you hope or despair about your future?
 DEVIN BRITTON: I mean, I think a little bit of both. But I think to get to the finals here just help helps me believe more in the fact that I can do it there. 
 I've still got -- I can improve a lot more from now. So hopefully I have faith. Who knows. We'll see I guess.

 Q. And you've always played an attacking style?
 DEVIN BRITTON: Yeah, I've always been a serve and volleyer. I like to come in, yeah.

 Q. Has anyone ever tried to steer you away from that?
 DEVIN BRITTON: Not really. I think right now it's probably too late to steer away from that. My groundstrokes aren't going to be able to hang with most of the guys right now. 
 Yeah, just serve and volley. That's it. 

 Q. Can you talk a little bit about how you played and how he played? The only time you played before you played well and he was pretty much dominating. That really wasn't the case today. It was pretty even for quite a while. 
 DEVIN BRITTON: Yeah, last time he crushed me. It was like 1-2. It wasn't even a match. Today I was there. I was in the match and I had a lot of chances. He returns well and he passes well, but I was there on the most of the volleys. 
 I got broken a couple times from double faulting and missing normal volleys, but he came up bigger on the big points. It could have gone either way I think, but he definitely played well. 
 I mean, it was a good match.

 Q. The only breakpoints you had were in that one game where you did end up breaking him. Was he serving particularly well, or were you just not returning well?
 DEVIN BRITTON: I could have returned better, I think. I was going for a lot in the first set off groundstrokes, which I could have just kept in play. 
 Yeah, sure I was missing a lot of returns. I was floating a lot. I could have put more returns in play. Even then, I probably wouldn't have broken that much. His groundstrokes are solid. 
 I think in order to break him I have to go for a little bit more on the return and get on the offense from the start. But that wasn't really working out for me, so that wasn't the case, I guess. 

 Q. Did you consider chipping charging a little bit more? 
 DEVIN BRITTON: I was thinking about it, but hitting over and coming in wasn't that much of a plan. Chipping and charging, he liked it when he had a little more time. When I gave him time to pass I had no shot at it. I was guessing. I tried to fake, but he read me pretty well. 
 I hadn't been chipping and charging a lot during the tournament, and I guess I wasn't feeling comfortable really doing that. 

 Q. What year of school are you going into?
 DEVIN BRITTON: Senior this year.

 Q. So what are your plans as far as pro events? College? Has this result changed what your thinking is?
 DEVIN BRITTON: I don't think it's changed that much. I'm going to play some futures this year and see what happens. I'm supposed to be going to college in January. I'm trying to graduate early and get my school work done. We'll see.

 Q. What college? 
 DEVIN BRITTON: University of Mississippi. 

 Q. You've accepted already? 
 DEVIN BRITTON: I haven't signed or anything, but I've pretty much made the decision. 

 Q. And can you talk about the decision to go to college? What went into that?
 DEVIN BRITTON: You see a lot of the guys going to college now. I have no ATP ranking right now. It's just smarter to go for a year or two to see how that goes. 
 I mean, there's really good competition in college. I can just improve my game and come out of that stronger. I don't see any down side to it.

 Q. How long you been at Bollettieri's?
 DEVIN BRITTON: A little over three years. 

 Q. Will you play any more junior events?
 DEVIN BRITTON: Yeah, this past year I've been trying to play more futures and stuff. Haven't been doing that great. I haven't gotten any points or anything. 
 I think after this tournament I obviously have a lot more confidence. Hopefully I can get some results in the futures level and work my way from there. 
 But mostly I've been playing a lot of futures this last year. Before that it was all juniors. 

 Q. What clicked for you this past week? 
 DEVIN BRITTON: I think after qualifying I was getting confidence. Then after being the 2 seed in the first round, my confidence just -- I kept getting confidence throughout the tournament. 
 I was serving well from the start of the tournament, and volleying pretty well. It just got better and better as the week went on, I think. 
 It's mostly mental, I guess, with one big win, and then I started playing much better. That was it. Just kept going with it. It's nice. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT