ING NEW YORK CITY MARATHON
November 4, 2011
Tsegaye Kebede
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. In no particular order, the last time I saw you I was part of the interview team after the Chicago Marathon where Sammy Wanjiru had defeated you in that sprint finish. You were so elegant afterwards and said, "You can't win all of the time, you can only give your best." I haven't heard much from him and wondered what you'll apply to the race on Sunday? 
 TSEGAYE KEBEDE: After Chicago I went to London to run the marathon. After Chicago I had a little problem with an injury with my foot, and that's why my result in London was not so perfect. But after London, I was preparing very good and I will do my best to achieve a good result.

 Q. So have you had any races between London and now? 
 TSEGAYE KEBEDE: Not yet.

 Q. Have you stayed in Ethiopia and trained there? 
 TSEGAYE KEBEDE: Yes, I've been training there.

 Q. In Addis Ababa? 
 TSEGAYE KEBEDE: Yes.

 Q. What are your expectations for the debut in New York? 
 TSEGAYE KEBEDE: New York is a new course, new spectators and everything is new, even though it's a marathon 40 kilometers, and I know the distance. I will try to do my best for a good result.

 Q. Do you think you're better or faster now? 
 TSEGAYE KEBEDE: Every race has its own character. With pace makers, you can run a fast time, and with no pace makers it's possible to run a faster time to win. So for me, it's okay, but running with pace makers will make for a good time, that's good. 
 But there is no pace maker, so you have to try to win the race without a pace maker, one person may go out and run really fast, and then he drops back again.

 Q. Is that how he prefers it? Does he prefer to have a pace maker and go like they do in London, or do you prefer to watch the competitors? 
 TSEGAYE KEBEDE: I prefer pace makers. 

 Q. Who do you see as your competitor here in New York? 
 TSEGAYE KEBEDE: Right now everybody is good competition. You know who will your top competitor will be when you start the race. Then you will see who is your top competition. Right now it's good to see who is a good competitor, and it's difficult to say.

 Q. What is your relationship with Gebra Gebremariam? Do you train together? Are you friends? 
 TSEGAYE KEBEDE: He's a good friend, but he's not a training partner.

 Q. So do they socialize or are you just polite to each other? 
 TSEGAYE KEBEDE: Yeah, they're just polite. No, they don't socialize. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT