THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 21, 2012
Juvic Pagunsan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  JUVIC PAGUNSAN:   Well, I played good today.   I hit very good today but I missed a little bit in my drive.   So I missed on the bunker on hole No. 2, I made a double.  
   
 Q.   It looked like it was an up‑and‑down front nine, but somewhat better back nine?  
JUVIC PAGUNSAN:   Yeah, I'm really comfortable when I come up to the back nine because the sun came out, a little bit warmer, yeah.  
   
 Q.   Were you struggling with the conditions, the heat or the lack of it?   Certainly yesterday.   Was it better today?  
JUVIC PAGUNSAN:   Yeah, it's better today.   But got some bad bounces today.  
   
 Q.   And last night did you stay around the course?   Were you monitoring the cut line yesterday?  
JUVIC PAGUNSAN:   I stayed back at my hotel and then just I was checking every minute what's going on, if I make or not.   And then in the last minute some guys they made mistakes, so come back here and play again, yeah.   It's going to be good‑‑ it's good for me.  
   
 Q.   It was changing every five minutes.   
JUVIC PAGUNSAN:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   Were you constantly just watching all the time?  
JUVIC PAGUNSAN:   Yeah, all the time.   Skype with my wife, and my wife also give all the scores, if I can make the cut tomorrow.   She said it's a big chance to make a cut.   So there you go, I'm here to play again in the third round.  
   
 Q.   And if your tournament was to finish today, what would you take back to the Philippines?   What memories would you take back?  
JUVIC PAGUNSAN:   It's a good experience.   It's a good tournament.   First time to play a links course.   It's good memories.   And I love to play here because it's a different‑‑ it's totally different than my home.   Like the weather, it's different.   The grass is different.   The greens are different, the bunkers.   I think it's all different.   Lots of good memories for me.  
   
 Q.   What's your game plan for tomorrow?  
JUVIC PAGUNSAN:   All the same.   Yeah, hit balls solid, try to put it on the fairway, on the green to avoid doubles, and yeah, struggling to come out of the bunkers, like today.  
   
 Q.   And when are you flying back?  
JUVIC PAGUNSAN:   I'm going back on Monday and then planning come back to Japan on the second week of August.   I have another event next week, but I think it's going to be a long trip on Mondays.   I think it's better to stay home and spend my time with my family.  
   
 Q.   Was the time especially tiring for yourself compared to other events?   Has it been more physically demanding?  
JUVIC PAGUNSAN:   Yeah, of course, yeah, yeah.   Yeah, if the course going to be wet, it's going to be more hard to walk and like the first two days.   Yeah, it's more demanding, like I said.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT