NBA DRAFT
June 25, 2015
Stanley Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  STANLEY JOHNSON:   I just want to start by giving God the glory right now.   I came from a family who we didn't have the best coming up, and I remember my mom used to lose meals over letting me eat and not paying certain things, letting me play AAU basketball and taking me to the gym when she was tired after work and stuff like that.   To be here and to be able to provide for my family and play for a great organization like the Pistons is everything for me.   
I knew it was right when I went on my visit there.   I saw the confidence of Detroit versus everybody, and after I saw that, that's what really sold me on the city.   I'm excited to be back, back in Detroit again and Coach Van Gundy, he's very positive.   He reminds me of my coach, they coached together, him and Coach Miller.   It's going to be awesome to be in the city with Dre and Reggie.   I could go on forever about how positive this moment is, but I'll let you guys get to questions.   
   
 Q.   How do you feel about going to a city like Detroit and what do you really know about the city?   And secondly, what do you expect in the NBA competitive‑wise in the first couple months of the season since it's a higher level?   
STANLEY JOHNSON:   So you kind of lost me, but I'll try my best.   Going to the City of Detroit, I'll start with the basketball of it, because that's what's important here.   I'm used to watching the Pistons when they had Rip Hamilton and Ben Wallace and Tayshaun Prince, who's also still there now.   I'm used to the Bad Boys and some movies like that.   I remember the college I was at, we watched that about three or four times this year to bring that attitude to the court.   I know there's a couple guys on the team that brought that attitude to the court.   So now being able to follow that path with the players that were awesome like that, I'm excited to see that.  
The city is an awesome city.   I know the place is in Auburn Hills, close to a nice part of the city, and Downtown Detroit is what it is (laughing), so I'm also about that.   
The second question, you lost me, so you'll have to repeat it.   
   
 Q.   The second question was what do you expect to happen from a competitive standpoint now that you're in the NBA?  
STANLEY JOHNSON:   Yeah, I'm a competitor.   In my opinion, we all lace our shoes up the same way, from LeBron all the way down to the lowest guy in the league.   I think I'm going to be ready to compete versus everybody.   I've never been afraid of anybody, never been intimidated, and that's just how I was raised and how I was built.   
   
 Q.   It's been a crazy journey for you.   Last summer you went head to head with everybody, LeBron, KD, even Tracy McGrady.   Do you feel you've sized yourself up for the NBA?   Do you feel like you're ready?  
STANLEY JOHNSON:   Yeah, I wouldn't have came out of college if I feel like I wasn't ready.   Playing Summer League versus LeBron and getting six Finals versus LeBron is going to be two different beasts.   I'm understanding of that.   But I feel like I'm ready to play.   Obviously there's going to be a lot of growth and development over the next couple months, getting used to the team and stuff like that.   But do I have the foundation to be ready to play right away?   I think so.   
   
 Q.   Traditionally one of the first purchases that basketball players make after signing their first contract is an automobile.   Will you guarantee your first car will be an American‑made car from one of the big three?  
STANLEY JOHNSON:   Yeah, my favorite car is a Challenger, Dodge Challenger.   Look out Dodge and Detroit.   I'm going to be a hell cat for them soon.   
   
 Q.   Do you have an endorsement deal with them yet?  
STANLEY JOHNSON:   Let's get one then.   I'm all for it.   
   
 Q.   We met yesterday.   I asked you if it was too hot here.   You said it was not hot.   That's the easy part of this.   A little deeper here.   We talked about whether or not you're ready for the basketball stuff, the cars, the clothes, the girls; that's good, too.   You're going to a place like Detroit.   What are you ready to do with NBA Cares, reaching out in the community and showing that basketball doesn't end with the 94 and 50?   Where does it go?  
STANLEY JOHNSON:   I'm glad you asked that because I was raise the in the Salvation Army, I was in the Boys and Girls Club.   I have family that's been on skid row, if you've ever heard of that before.   That ties deep to me, going back and going back to the community and doing stuff for them.   I know in college and high school I was always giving back to people.   I'd go to gyms, I'd young kid with the same size shoes as me, I'd give him two pairs of shoes off my feet, give him the backpack off my back.   
So to me giving back to the community is everything.   I think bringing up the community is going to bring up the positive energy in the city and bring up our team, as well.   I'm going to be active with NBA Cares and that, and to me obviously NBA Cares is not‑‑ I can do Stanley Johnson Cares and go do that.   I don't need pictures and I can do places by myself and be just as good as NBA Cares would be.   
   
 Q.   You've got some good role models with Jalen Rose out there.   I think you've got some good conversations to talk to.   
STANLEY JOHNSON:   Thank you, I appreciate it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT