WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 25, 2017
Hideto Tanihara
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MICHAEL GIBBONS: Congratulations.  Just give us an assessment of your match against Ross and then we'll take some questions.
HIDETO TANIHARA: The first hole I didn't do well, but got it back on the second hole.  Third hole, I birdied and was up.
I think all in all against Ross Fisher, I think when he made the misses I was able to par and get the point and also when he parred I got the birdie, so that's how I think I got my points and got a good lead.
Q. By getting this far, you've ticked off some very good boxes, Augusta National, and you've moved well up in the Presidents Cup points, as well.  How important are those things to you?
HIDETO TANIHARA: My whole goal starting the year was to get into the Masters.  There wasn't any tournaments in Japan, so I had to go overseas to play a lot of tournaments.  And I'm really happy with the results I'm having right now.
With the Presidents Cup, I actually didn't have it in my mind at all.  But after this week a lot of people are talking about the Presidents Cup.  It's a similar format where you play -- it's like a match game.  If I can get in, I'll be really happy to play for the International Team.
Q. One of the issues for the International Team has long been the difference in nations and the breakdown with language and whatever.  Obviously Hideki will be there.  Do you see yourself as a good partner a Hideki if you make the International Team?
HIDETO TANIHARA: If I keep on playing well, I'll probably get in, playing with Matsuyama.  There wouldn't be any problem with the language.  So hopefully I can get in and play in the Presidents Cup.
Q. Does Dustin Johnson look unbeatable to you, and what will your strategy be tomorrow?
HIDETO TANIHARA: He looks unbeatable (laughter).
I hope he doesn't feel good tomorrow, so maybe I have a chance tomorrow (laughter).
Q. I saw you had a shaft putter.  When did you put it in the bag and what do you think about this club?
HIDETO TANIHARA: Well, the center shaft putter has been my ace putter for the last six years.  When I stroke it, it feels really good.  Depending on the green, if it doesn't -- if the touch -- I don't feel good with it, I would change it into a different putter, which is the crank shaft, Ping shaft.  But the center shaft is the ace putter.
Q. We kept hearing on the broadcast that you've been the best putter in Japan for three of the last four years or something along those lines.  Do you feel that's going to be the strength of your game?  And do you think that's what it's going to beat Dustin tomorrow, making long putts?
HIDETO TANIHARA: If I can make all my putts in one putt, then I think I will win (laughter).






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT