ABU DHABI HSBC CHAMPIONSHIP
January 16, 2020
Renato Paratore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. A 64, and at the end, four birdies in a row. Tell us about that closing stretch.
RENATO PARATORE: Yeah, today the short game was really good, and also, the iron play. The last four holes, I holed some good putts to finish also on 18 and 17. So I'm pretty happy with the short game today.
Q. Nine birdies in total. When you're making so many birdies, what's going through your mind as the round is increasingly going under par?
RENATO PARATORE: Just I start really well today, and really confident on the putting. Then I just trying to keep on my mind, keep making birdie.
Q. Your last start was in Mauritius and you finished second there and that was in early December. Did you feel you were able to keep your game to that level over the Christmas break?
RENATO PARATORE: Yeah, Mauritius I played really solid from tee-to-green. Gave me some confidence, and then in the break, I work on my short game and more on the body. This one helped me.
Q. Give us your analysis about today?
RENATO PARATORE: Yeah, today I start really good and made some good putts the first holes. So give me good confidence for the rest of the day, and I keep making putts, so it's been a really good day. Enjoyable.
Q. You came in with four birdies on the last four holes, no big celebrations though on 18. You still feel pretty calm about the week ahead of you?
RENATO PARATORE: Yeah, but just try to be focused on my game on every shot, and I manage to finish really good and making some putts.
Q. About this time last year, the season started a little slow for you. I think things started to turn for you around The Scottish Open.
RENATO PARATORE: Yeah, last year, the first five months I was not playing good, but I worked really hard and improve a lot from tee-to-green. From Scottish Open, I started to play better.
Q. Accuracy around this course is key. Is that an area you've tried to work on?
RENATO PARATORE: Yeah, of course. Today I hit some long drivers. I didn't hit so many fairways, but I cut some corners, so some short clubs helped me.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT