SAUDI INTERNATIONAL POWERED BY SBIA
January 31, 2019
Renato Paratore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Congratulations on a terrific round of 5-under par 65 in difficult conditions.  It started really quickly, four birdies in the first five holes.  What was key to that?
RENATO PARATORE: Yeah, yeah, I started really good, as you said.  I played a solid nine holes, then the wind started blowing more, but I still played really good the second nine.  Some putts didn't fall, but still a good round today.
Q. When you are 4-under par so early and you know that anything under 70 is a good score, what is the mindset?  Are you trying to think of going lower or just not losing the advantage you've got going?
RENATO PARATORE: Yeah, I think to play the thing shot by shot, and yeah, keep going and keep playing well.
Q. What was your impression of this golf course when you first saw it because it's a new one to all of us?
RENATO PARATORE: It's a good impression.  The greens are funny because with this wind there are a lot of slopes, so it's not easy, and from tee to green, it's a good course.
Q. You played two tournaments in a run before this one, obviously Abu Dhabi and Dubai, 54th and missed cut.  Was there any sign this form was coming?  Did you think you were going to play better this week?
RENATO PARATORE: The last two weeks, yeah, I didn't play my best golf, but very solid.  I played for three or five a round, under par, so yeah, the game was feeling good.
Q. You got off to a good start, went out in 30.  Did you hole a lot of good putts out there?
RENATO PARATORE: Yeah, I played really solid the first nine holes, and from tee to green I was also solid.  Yeah, it's been really solid.
Q. On the back nine I saw you missed a lot of birdie putts.  Your score could be much better, could it?
RENATO PARATORE: Yeah, the last four holes, yeah, some putts didn't come in, but yeah, it's the game.  I holed also a lot of putts the first nine, so I am happy with the round.
Q. How good would you say that round is considering the windy conditions we're seeing?
RENATO PARATORE: Oh, it's a really good round, yeah.  The wind was blowing.  I hit good irons to the greens, also, which was not easy in these conditions, so it's been a good round.
Q. How did you find the greens?  They looked very grainy.  A lot of players are struggling on the greens.
RENATO PARATORE: Yeah, it's not easy to putt because sometimes the line doesn't go how you think.  But I rolled a lot of really good putts today.
Q. Obviously tomorrow you're going out early, in good position, tied for second?
RENATO PARATORE: Yeah, yeah, I hope we don't have wind tomorrow.  It's really long still, the tournament, so just keep focused.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT