NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: MAGIC v CAVALIERS
May 21, 2009
Mo Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Tell me about last night. It seemed like you felt like you had a lot of responsibility for the loss.   
 MO WILLIAMS: Oh, yeah, I'm here to help the team win. If I'm aggressive, I make a shot, we're a better team.  
  
  Q. And you felt like -- did you feel like you let them down last night?   
 MO WILLIAMS: Oh, yeah, that's true. Yeah, that's the truth.   
  
  Q. Do you think you were too hard on yourself or is that reality?   
 MO WILLIAMS: That's reality, that's reality. I let them down.   
  
  Q. After the first game against Detroit, you admitted to being a little bit uncomfortable in the playoffs.   
 MO WILLIAMS: I was confident. I'm past that. I'm past that. Last night was -- it was a good game.   
 We had 25 seconds left to go, but I missed some shots in a situation that I thought would put us over the hump.  
  
  Q. You weren't feeling uncomfortable or a new feeling --  
 MO WILLIAMS: I was excited. You know, I was excited. I was amped up. I was too amped up, to be honest. I couldn't even drink my Red Bull before the game. It was ridiculous energy in the building, on the floor.   
 Once I calmed down, I thought I was going to be all right. I just couldn't get a rhythm shooting the basketball, which is tough.   
 You got to give them credit. They were running me off the line. They know they can't give me that much time. But I had some open looks where they didn't have opportunities, but I missed.  
  
  Q. What about the energy?   
 MO WILLIAMS: Oh, the energy? It's what we've done all year. This is the first time we had to make adjustments in this playoffs. So people got to understand that, you know, we played eight games. But in each one of those games, he never had to make adjustments because what we were doing was working and they couldn't figure it out. They couldn't do anything to change.  
 So whatever they did, it doesn't matter. We are going to stop you. It is the first team that will have to make us make adjustments. Obviously they're good. The further you go, the better the team is. There is no secret they're a good basketball team.   
  
  Q. (Indiscernible).   
 MO WILLIAMS: It don't change anything I have never been here before. So me being down 0-1, it doesn't really mean anything to me. I'm really saying I don't see them beating us four times. I don't see them beating us four times.  
  
  Q. Do you feel like, even though you missed the shots, the greater issue is on the other end of the court for you guys last night?   
 MO WILLIAMS: I think defensively we had some lapses, and I think they found something that worked and they stayed with it. That's what going to the drawing board is. We were up two, we were feeling good. My mind was on this game. That's it. That's it.   
 Getting a stop, it's nothing. 25 seconds to get a stop, we've done it all year, done it all year. And you got to give Rashard credit. He hit a tough shot. He hit a tough shot.  
  
  Q. When you say you take the fair share of the blame, are you up for the next game or does it linger?   
 MO WILLIAMS: No, it don't linger at all. It gets me ready for the next game obviously. Make shots, plain and simple. Be a threat on the floor. You are not going to make all your shots, but I felt like there was points in the game where I wasn't a threat to them.   
 I have to be a threat. If I'm on the floor, I have to be a threat.   
  
  Q. Do you have to change anything offensively?   
 MO WILLIAMS: No, I got some good looks. I got some real good looks. I think Coach did a great job of calling plays and getting me in a position to be open. The rest is left up to me to make plays myself or for my teammates.   
 I thought I did a good job of making plays for my teammates the first half. Obviously, LeBron had to go in in the second half. But making plays for myself, I think I struggled there last night.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT