NBA FINALS: MAGIC v LAKERS
June 5, 2009
Courtney Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. (Question regarding guarding LeBron versus Kobe.)
 COURTNEY LEE: Kobe pretty much does everything in a game, shoot, pass, back to the basket. He has a variety of ways of scoring. As far as LeBron, he also has a variety of ways of scoring, but Kobe is a better scorer as far as shooting ways. Comparing guarding a guy like LeBron to Kobe is a little bit difficult, but you've got to be tremendous. They're both tremendous forwards.

 Q. He really hurt you last night on the pick-and-roll. Is it a matter of he doesn't need as much space once he gets around that screen to pull up, whereas LeBron you can sort of maybe sag a little bit more? Is that an adjustment you guys have to make?
 COURTNEY LEE: Yeah, I mean, you just know with Kobe you've got to be up on him, especially when he gets it rolling like he did last night. You've got to try to take away as many open looks as you can. He was making some difficult shots last night.
 A guy like that gets rolling, it's hard to stop.

 Q. Is that something you guys have talked about, stepping up on that screen?
 COURTNEY LEE: Definitely. We tried to make that adjustment during the game where he was coming off attacking the big, and then when Dwight or Mike stepped up he was making the pass to the side. We definitely need to get back and work on a lot of different situations and things to prevent him from getting open looks.
 Last night we really didn't display our best basketball. We know that. Shots weren't falling, but we had a lot of defensive mistakes. We just need to get back to doing the things that we do best.

 Q. Do you imagine that we'll see as much of Jameer as we did in Game 1?
 COURTNEY LEE: I can't say whether you will or not. Once he got in, he did a good job of attacking in the pick-and-roll situations and finding the open man, and that's what we needed at that time. Coach thought that he was doing the best out of the three point guards out there in that situation, so he let him play. If we need that, I'm sure you'll see him playing a lot.




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT