BOOZ ALLEN CLASSIC
June 10, 2005
Matt Gogel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  We welcome Matt Gogel after a 1 over 72 during the second round of the Booz Allen Classic, just two shots behind the leader through two rounds.

Matt, obviously a little different than a 63 yesterday, but it's really tough to bounce back, to post another low score after a 63 on TOUR.  Talk a little about that first and then about what you encountered out there today.
MATT GOGEL:  Well, I agree, it's obviously very difficult to, you know, shoot another low round.  But I knew that.  I knew I wasn't going to shoot a 63 or even a 64 or 65.  But obviously knew I could play well.

I got off to a shaky start, just kind of missed some fairways and missed some greens.  Then I ran off three birdies in four holes and was at 10 under par, so I was 2 under on the round playing really, really well.  Hit a poor shot on the short little 8th hole.  From then on really the whole Back 9, I just didn't really drive the ball well.  Out here it's obviously a demanding enough golf course that if you're missing fairways you're just going to struggle to make birdies, even pars.

I did a good job of kind of hanging in there.  I had birdie putts on 15, 16    excuse me, 14, 15, 16, and 17, you know, and 18.  I just didn't make any 3 putted 16 to make a bogey.  I'm not too disappointed.  I didn't play well enough to be really disappointed.

So I'm still in the hunt.  I know if I can get the ball on the fairway over the weekend, I'll be a factor.
THE MODERATOR:  That seemed to be the difference today, a few less fairways hit and a few less greens hit, too.
MATT GOGEL:  No question.  If you don't hit fairways out here, you're going to have a hard time hitting greens.  You know, I mean, we've seen it now, the game is obviously changed.  I mean, you know, with Vijay and Phil, Ernie, they're so powerful that they can hit the ball, you know, 7 iron or 6 iron off out of the rough and land it on the green.  I can't do that.  I have to hit the fairways.  You know, it's hot, everybody is going to struggle with the heat a little bit.

You know, like I said, I should be able to hit more fairways than I did today, and I hopefully will do that over the weekend.  If I do that, I'll be patient enough to, you know, get my birdies when I need to.
THE MODERATOR:  Open it up for questions.
Q.  You mentioned Phil, Vijay, Ernie, some of those guys who weren't on the leaderboard yesterday went out this morning and made a move.  When you're out in front of a field like this, is there a tendency at all to look over your shoulder?
MATT GOGEL:  Not in the first round.  I mean, like I said, I knew that I wasn't going to shoot a really low score again today like a 65 or so.  But I fully expected to play better than I did.  You know, like I said, when I birdied 6 and 7 to go to 10 under par, then I have the short 8th and a 9th hole that's a wedge, a three shot whole, but it's a wedge in there, I really felt that I had, you know, kind of my game under control.

Made just a lousy bogey on 8, made a par on 9, and then, you know, really good save for a par on 10.  So really didn't play well the last eight holes, other than the last probably three or four.  I hit some quality shots coming in, so that's encouraging.

But, you know, a field like this, on a golf course like this, you know what's going to happen on Sunday.  Everybody will kind of going to close in.  I would think probably 13 , 14 , maybe 12 under might be a good score to get to because I don't see the greens firming up, it's just too humid right now.
Q.  Overwhelmingly the scores are lower in the morning than in the afternoon.  You would seem to be the perfect example of that.  Could you talk about that.  Was it more difficult playing in the afternoon today?
MATT GOGEL:  Well, no question.  I mean, yesterday when I finished, it was still dead calm, no wind at all.  I think the morning rounds even had cloudy skies, with probably not much wind as well.  So it was cooler for them.  But it seemed like the sun kind of came out right about when I went to the range this morning to warm up.  It was just a I felt like more humid day than I've had all week.  Again, I was here on Monday, playing 36 holes, and I was much more fatigued, the heat got to me more today than on Monday.
Q.  Take us through No. 8.  Yesterday you hit driver, spun it to a foot and a half, tap in.
MATT GOGEL:  I hit 3 wood yesterday off the tee.  You know, obviously hit a very nice drive.  Felt like I was almost too close to the hole but I hit a great second shot.  Today it was the same club, a 3 wood.  I just totally, totally, came off of it.  The wind carried it into the trees.  Really didn't have much of a shot.

I've hit some    really, I've only hit a    made a couple bad swings today.  But probably more disappointing is I just didn't get the ball up and down when I needed to.
Q.  When that does happen, does it just sort of take you out of the really feel good frame of mind?
MATT GOGEL:  Yeah, a little bit.  Certainly.  You know, it seemed like momentum wise I was teeing off last the whole Back 9, and that doesn't help.  Playing partners were playing well.  They made some birdies.  It was just hard for me to get anything going.

But, you know, golf's a funny game.  Seems like the tournaments I have won, you know, I've made bogeys on pretty much the easiest hole on the golf course.  I mean, it just happens.  Maybe I just let my concentration down.

But you play all 18 holes and, you know, you birdie some of the holes you're not supposed to birdie and you bogey the holes you shouldn't bogey.
THE MODERATOR:  Let's go through your card.  Bogey on No. 3.
MATT GOGEL:  Yeah, I drove it right, in the right rough, kind of up on the bank.  Had to kind of play short.  Only about 40 yards, hit a lousy shot in there, probably 30 feet from the hole, 2 putted.

4 I birdied.  Hit a nice drive, actually kicked in the rough.  I hit I think an 8 iron on it I think about 30 feet, made a long putt.  That was nice.

Then 6, the par 5, I went for the green in two and just came up short, just past the bunker, chipped it to about four feet, made it for birdie.

Then 7, I hit an 8 iron to about three feet, hit a really nice shot there.

Then 8, I talked about, 3 wood, blocked it in the trees.  Had to kind of punch it through the green.  Didn't get it up and down.

Bogeyed on 11, the par 3.  Really pretty much my second bad shot of the day.  I hit a 4 iron, you know, I left it thin, in the bunker.  Didn't get that up and down.

Then we were on the clock, our group was behind, we were being timed the last four or five holes.  On 16 I hit the green, about 40 feet, 50 feet, but I was out.  You know, I didn't have much time to look at the putt, rushed the putt.  Left it about five feet short and missed it.

That's probably the most disappointing thing because other than that I kind of hung in there and played pretty well, although things weren't going my way.  Make a bogey there was pretty much, you know, shouldn't have happened.
THE MODERATOR:  Thank you, Matt.
MATT GOGEL:  Okay.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT