U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 18, 2011
Patrick Cantlay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Can you talk about your round today? 
 PATRICK CANTLAY: I played well today. I had a lot of fun. I was able to make a few putts. I hit it good. I kept it in the fairway for most of the day. 

 Q. Talk about holing out from the bunker. 
 PATRICK CANTLAY: That was really exciting. It was kind of a tough bunker shot because the green runs away from you, but I nipped it pretty good and it ended up going in.

 Q. What hole was that on?
 PATRICK CANTLAY: 15.

 Q. What did you hit off the tee there?
 PATRICK CANTLAY: Driver in the middle of the fairway and then had a mud ball and it went way right into the bunker and I made the bunker shot, fortunately.

 Q. How far was that shot, do you think?
 PATRICK CANTLAY: From the fairway? 

 Q. The bunker into --
 PATRICK CANTLAY: I don't know, 15 yards.

 Q. Can you go over all your birdies today?
 PATRICK CANTLAY: Yeah, I think. 1, I made birdie. I drove it down the middle, hit a 60 degree to five feet and made birdie.
 I went to No. 5. I hit 3-wood in the fairway and then made like an eight-footer for birdie there.
 I went to 6. I drove it down the fairway, hybrid to the back of the green, two-putt for birdie.
 No. 9, I hit a wedge from like 95 yards to ten feet and made birdie.
 I made birdie on I think 15, and then that was it. 

 Q. You mentioned having fun out there. With the atmosphere and whatnot, how is it feeling now? Do you feel a little more comfortable with all of it? Are you getting a chance to enjoy yourself out there?
 PATRICK CANTLAY: Yeah, I feel really comfortable out there the last two days and I'm having a great time. It's great to be in front of the fans and just be in the atmosphere out there.

 Q. What are the crowds saying out there? 
 PATRICK CANTLAY: Yeah, just cheering me on. They're great, really great. 

 Q. Yesterday, you talked about how you're going to get your degree from UCLA before you turn pro and that is a very high priority to you. Elaborate on how this time playing in these big events as an amateur is going to help shape your outlook when you do turn pro?
 PATRICK CANTLAY: I'll just be really confident and know that I can compete out here. I'll know what it's like to have played in the U.S. Open with the golf course and the fans and walking around with all the people. So I'll just be more confident and know what it's like. 

 Q. Are there any pros that you've spoken to out here that you've picked up something from or they've given you a piece of advice?
 PATRICK CANTLAY: When I played on Thursday and Friday with Michael Putnam, he was real great to me and I enjoyed that.

 Q. Did anything resonate with you?
 PATRICK CANTLAY: Nothing specific.

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 PATRICK CANTLAY: He did before a little bit, yeah. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 PATRICK CANTLAY: Putnam? 

 Q. Yeah. 
 PATRICK CANTLAY: No. 

 Q. You know how important staying in the process is to you, but do you think at all about low amateur, is that anything in the back of your mind?
 PATRICK CANTLAY: Not really, it's not going to help to think about low amateur, I'm just trying to play the golf course the best way I can and learn as much as I can and enjoy the experience.

 Q. What would that mean to your career if that happened tomorrow?
 PATRICK CANTLAY: It would mean a lot. There are a lot of great names on there, and it would be an honor to earn that accolade.

 Q. I followed you out there today. Looked like you and John Senden looked really comfortable at playing partners out there. Was there anything that you guys interacted with, looked like you were joking around a little bit, did that relax you today?
 PATRICK CANTLAY: Yeah, he was great out there. He was really nice to me and he's a great guy. We weren't reading each others putts, but we had a great time out there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT