U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 28, 2010
Patrick Cantlay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: We have Patrick Cantlay here, semifinalist. Patrick, general thoughts on your round today? 
 PATRICK CANTLAY: You know, I played all right. Stuck to my game plan and did everything like I wanted. A couple miss cues, but for the most part I hit it good and rolled it good and didn't get anything to fall. 
 But Peter played well and made a ton of putts at the beginning and really never made any mistakes.

 Q. Is the course playing the same as it had been the whole week?
 PATRICK CANTLAY: Yeah, couple tougher pins. I think six was a tougher pin, and there are a couple more out there. But for the most part they played the same, yeah.

 Q. You'd only trailed four holes this entire week, and you fell behind, obviously, one down the first hole, which is not that big of a deal. But in terms of you never got it to -- or you got it to one down after 8 holes. You were still one down. Psychologically what did that do for you in terms of being down in the match? One down, two down at the turn? 

 Q. Psychologically?
 PATRICK CANTLAY: Psychologically I think I was fine. I was still trying to hit good shots and roll good putts. Just didn't work out.

 Q. You're one down after one, but there are three chances in there that it looked like you were going to even it up and you nailed a dagger putt, did you feel your chances of winning sailed? 
 PATRICK CANTLAY: It felt good because I was in good spots and I hit good putts there, they just didn't fall. It's not like I was trying to lag them up there because I thought he was going to miss. I knew he was going to roll a really good putt there's and give them a chance to go in, but they just didn't fall. 
 I hit good putts. They all rolled by the hole maybe two feet or so, but it just didn't work out.

 Q. You're very steady out there as far as demeanor, tempo, preshot routine. Is it something that you have to focus on to keep that consistent tempo, or is that kind of your natural, personal way you go about things?
 PATRICK CANTLAY: I'd say, for the most part it's natural. Every once in a while get a little quick, maybe not as quick as some other guys. Sometimes it's conscious, but most of the time it's pretty natural.

 Q. On the 12th hole, can you take us through what you were trying to do on the green there at the 12th? 
 PATRICK CANTLAY: Yeah, 12 green -- well, first of all, I probably should have hit my tee shot a little left. I was trying to hit a little draw there and I hung it out a little bit. It was still pretty good, it just didn't get all the way back there. 
 Then on the green, I could have putted it left up that slope on the left. There's kind of a ridge that fell off right where I really wanted to go. 
 So I felt like the best chance was trying to chip in. I cut my chip a little thin and it went a little farther right and a little farther than I thought, and it came in really hot. It just went too far. 
 If I catch it right, or if I catch it correctly, it starts a little left and lands much softer and doesn't go too far. So I think it was the right play, I just didn't execute it correctly.

 Q. You were put on the clock yesterday. You were on the clock today. What does that do for you? You played with a rhythm and everything, does that bother you? 
 PATRICK CANTLAY: Obviously it's not the best case scenario, but just try and overall get ready, I guess, before I get to my ball. You know, maybe it affected me a little bit, but not anything major.

 Q. You have a lot of family here. Do you they usually travel to the tournament, or did you think this was a good week and worth coming for? 
 PATRICK CANTLAY: Yeah, this is the first time my whole family's come, definitely, for sure. Sometimes my dad comes or my mom comes, but, you know, it was nice having my family here.

 Q. Because they saw possibly a good week coming after the play this summer or just because it's a big event? 
 PATRICK CANTLAY: Actually it was my little brother's birthday yesterday, so I don't think we wanted to be separated during his birthday.

 Q. What will you take away from this week? 
 PATRICK CANTLAY: A lot. It's definitely a positive experience. A lot of confidence going into college. I've learned a lot today. I think you can learn a lot from a loss if you really analyze how you felt and, you know, I'm going to take a lot of positive things from it.

 Q. When you say you learned a lot today, what do you think you did learn? 
 PATRICK CANTLAY: I really learned that you have to stay within yourself and just keep doing the right things. I think most of all, even when you feel composed and you feel good, sometimes it just doesn't go your way, and I think today was one of those days.

 Q. When does UCLA start qualifying? Do you have to go straight from winning the Am to five-man qualifying? 
 PATRICK CANTLAY: No, I've got a couple weeks off. I think I have to report on the 15th or 16th of September, and we're going to qualifying then.

 Q. Is it like going from almost winning the Am to going and being a freshman and kind of low man on the totem pole? 
 PATRICK CANTLAY: I don't know. I haven't been there yet, but I'm sure it will be fine. I know most of the guys on the team, and you know, it's going to be great.

 Q. There are some parts of your swing that look reminiscent to the guys of Virginia. Do you think that's just from seeing them, almost osmosis, and you can repeat those swings without thinking about it? 
 PATRICK CANTLAY: A little bit. I really like (Indiscernible). He's one of the best on tour. If I could get his tempo, that would be great. But obviously, Jamie's been teaching me since I was 9. 
 So I think he likes the same kind of look with guys and I really trust him whatever he tell tells me to do. So I think both those things have a lot to do with it, yeah. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thanks, Patrick. Congratulations. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT