SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 10, 2020
Patrick Cantlay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. Tell us about your round.
PATRICK CANTLAY:   Birdie, up and down on 16 was really good.  Actually hit a lot of good putts in the middle of the round that didn't go in.  I putted really well today and didn't get all that could have out of it, but played really nice.
Q. How did the wind affect things today?  First time this week it's really been a factor in club selection.
PATRICK CANTLAY:   Yeah, I think is was the first time that it got windy all week for are, and it gets a lot harder.  A lot harder to make birdies.
That 16th hole today usually we're hitting a mid-iron in there, and today even if I would've hit the fairway I would've had a 5-iron or a 4-iron.  The golf course is a lot tougher when the wind blows, but I've seen it like this before.  The first year I played and won I think I was only 9-under because it blew every day.
Q. Thoughts on tomorrow?  You'll play with Martin again in the final group, and obviously going to have to shoot a low number.
PATRICK CANTLAY:   Yeah, Martin is a nice guy.  I'm sure by the time I get to the golf course the lead will already be more than 20-under, which is what it's going to be around here.  There's going to be a lot of birdies tomorrow.  Same thing.  I think the wind is down a little bit, so it'll be an exciting finish.
Q. Great stuff today.  Good luck tomorrow.
PATRICK CANTLAY:   Thank you.
Q. How would you assess your play today?
PATRICK CANTLAY:   Yeah, played nice.  Played really well.  Everything was solid today.  Drove the ball really well, wedged it well, and actually didn't have all my putts go in.  I hit a lot of good putts that didn't go in.
All in all it was a real solid day and in a good spot superior tomorrow.
Q. (Indiscernible.)  Is it hard to stay patient knowing there were a lot of birdie opportunities coming in?
PATRICK CANTLAY:   Not really.  You know, I think my strategy out here is to stay patient because I know there are so many birdie opportunities instead of pressing or feeling like I'm trailing, and realize that they're out there if I hit good shots.
Those holes in the middle were actually kind of tough today with the wind up a little more.  Like I said, I hit good putts on 5 and 6 and thought I definitely made the one 5 and the one on 6 (indiscernible), but that just happens.
You know, maybe tomorrow I'll make a bunch of birdies on the front nine.
Q. How much was the wind factor?
PATRICK CANTLAY:   Yeah, it makes it a lot tougher.  I've seen the wind blow out here before.  First year I played was only 9-under and was in a playoff, so I've seen it like that before.  And I think you can still make birdies.  Just have to take it a little smarter.
Q. Do you watch the leaderboard?  What's your mentality?
PATRICK CANTLAY:   By the time I tee off tomorrow I'm sure it'll be more than 20-under, so it's going to be the same mentality tomorrow.  I think the wind is down a little bit so still be a bunch of birdies.
I'll be aggressive when I hit the ball in the fairway and get a wedge in my hand, and other than that I'll stay patient and try and shot a good round like I did the first three two days.
Q. Seems like there was nothing terribly special.  Just felt like a normal good round of golf.  Is that about right?
PATRICK CANTLAY:   Yeah, I mean, I feel like I birdied all the holes you're kind of supposed to birdie.  You know, it was bonus birdieing 10 from where I hit it off the tee, but that's supposed to be a birdie.  You saw where I hit the provisional tee shot; it's where I was expecting to play from.
But got all the par-5s and then the 1st hole, we were just short.  So it was a good round.  It's kind of what you expect out here when the wind blows.  If he can get the easy holes you can shoot a good score, but it's not as easy as when it's -- there is no wind.
Q. Kind of a beating a dead horse, but you talked all week about not having to press because you know what's out there.  Does it change at all when it's the last day?
PATRICK CANTLAY:   I don't think so, because there are so many scoring opportunities.  Once you get to 13 you feel like you can birdie almost all the way in.  So I think it's important to stay patient and realize that if you just play smart and stay within yourself, you can make a bunch of birdies on the back nine.
So be nice to get off to a good start tomorrow and get a few under on the front.  And then once you get to the 9th hole and turn, you can really go.
Q. Do you nervous at all?
PATRICK CANTLAY:   I always have nerves but not really nervous.  I felt in control.  My swing felt good.
Q. Anxious.  That's the word.  Do you feel anxious?
PATRICK CANTLAY:   Not really.  Maybe a little bit when I was wondering where my ball was on 10.  I was hoping that it would be somewhat okay over there and I could make a par.  Fortunately it wasn't that bad and I was able to hit a great shot, so that was a bonus.
Q. Why did you hit it in the bunker on 7?
PATRICK CANTLAY:   I wasn't trying to hit it in the bunker.  I think you could have hit a tee shot up really close to the green.  Just the wind was a little down off the left and I hung it out there a little to the right and hit it in the bunker.  Wasn't trying.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT