SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 9, 2020
Patrick Cantlay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. Just seems automatic you're going to see Patrick Cantlay in Las Vegas, first page of the leaderboard.  You back up your 63 on Thursday with a 65 Friday.  How would you compare the two rounds?
PATRICK CANTLAY:   Yeah, pretty similar.  Got off to a little worse start today.  Bogeyed the 11th hole, which I feel like you can birdie at least one or two of the first three holes.  Gave a few back there, but other than that it was a great round.
Q. Bi picture with what you've done in the past few years here, win, couple runner-up finishes, when you have that type of connection to a course, how does that free you up inside the ropes?
PATRICK CANTLAY:   Yeah, I think especially around here you need to make so many birdies, and I'm just used to it out here.  It never feels like I'm stressing because it feels like there are so many birdie holes.  It actually allows me to be patient.
Like I said, I started the day today I was even par through the first five or six holes or whatever, and it feels like you're way behind because you need to make so many birdies.
But I knew there were plenty of opportunities the rest of the way, and I was able to capitalize coming down the last three or four holes.
Other than that I played great and it was really solid.  I had lots of opportunities.  I actually hit a bunch of good putts in the middle of the round on the second nine and none of them went in.
But, yeah, I'm in a good spot come the weekend.
Q. Take us through the stretch.  You finish the back nine with three birdies.  That was your front nine.  Then you birdie 1, so that was kind of key to the round.
PATRICK CANTLAY:   Yeah, it was.  You know, 16 you should always birdie.  It feels like a long par-4.
And then 17 with the pin where it is today you can actually hit it close to that hole location, and I hit it pretty close.
Then 18 you can have a sand wedge in if you have a good tee shot, which I did.
And 1 is just a flip wedge in.
So driving the ball in the fairway on 18 and 1, obviously the key is there, and I had sand wedge and then lob wedge in.
So it's easy to make birdies with wedges.
Q. Congratulations on the start.  Good luck on the weekend.  Are you as confident on this golf course as any golf course?
PATRICK CANTLAY:   Yeah, obviously with the success I've had it's easy to be confident around here.  I just like the golf course.  I think that it sets up for a lot of draw tee shots, and if you play from the fairway you have a lot opportunities.
Q. I'm going to throw one at you and get your reaction on it.  In 60 years, only four players have gone first or second in four consecutive years in one tournament.  Jack, Tiger, Tom Watson, Gary Player.  You could join that this week.  Your thoughts?
PATRICK CANTLAY:   That would be great.  Every time I come here I feel like I have a chance to win.  It doesn't surprise me because I really like the golf course, but obviously I have to execute.  I have so far, so I'm looking forward to the weekend.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT