AT&T PEBBLE BEACH PRO-AM
February 6, 2020
Patrick Cantlay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Nine birdies today on what is normally the toughest of the three golf courses. What was working so well for you today?
PATRICK CANTLAY: I played really well. I drove the ball well. I had a lot of short irons coming into the greens. I played the par-5s good on the front and then made that bogey there on 14 and got a little mud there. But all in all, played really well, made some putts, and I'm really happy with the start.
Q. Was this kind of maybe possibly one of the easier days here at Spyglass because the weather is perfect and the course is playing well?
PATRICK CANTLAY: Yeah, and we went out first, so the greens on our front nine were absolutely perfect. Course was probably the best shape I've ever seen it and we're getting perfect weather, so, yeah, it's great.
Q. Seemed a little bit of continuing good play here. Is this a continuation of what's been going on recently?
PATRICK CANTLAY: Yeah, I've been playing really well. I feel confident and comfortable with the game. I really like it around here. I've played the tournament a few times so coming back to golf courses is easier than seeing them for the first time and I like it here, so it's all good.
Q. Playing with Kelly Slater. Is this relaxing a little bit, kind of a different way of going about your business?
PATRICK CANTLAY: Yeah, we've played together in this tournament before. I enjoy Kelly. He's a great player. He rolled the rock so good today. Yeah, we both played great and it's really fun being out here with him. He's such a great champion and, obviously, the best to ever compete at his sport, which is beyond impressive, so it's a real pleasure to be out here with him.
Q. Do you pick his brain about some of that stuff, since he is obviously the best at what he's done, do you kind of pick his brain and kind of get what he did well?
PATRICK CANTLAY: We're just out there trying to make as many birdies as we can. I might corner him at some point and try and get a little something that I can use, but he's a great dude and we're really having fun.
Q. Relative to your skill set, who putted better today, you or Kelly?
PATRICK CANTLAY: Kelly. He looked like the best putter on TOUR today, he looked like Greg Chalmers.
Q. Did you get that? Not a lot of people are going to get to Greg Chalmers.
PATRICK CANTLAY: Doesn't he always lead the putting stats?
Q. Yeah, he's unbelievable. What do you like about the tournament outside of the courses? Is it just the courses?
PATRICK CANTLAY: I like the whole feel up here. It's one of my favorite places. I can see myself retiring here some day. I love Carmel, and it's just beautiful, so how could you not like it up here when it's perfect weather like this.
Q. Have you ever gotten angry up here?
PATRICK CANTLAY: I'm sure I have.
Q. Would you have if you had missed that putt on 18?
PATRICK CANTLAY: You know, even if I would have missed it I played well today, so...






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT