THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 12, 2020
Patrick Cantlay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Good round, did you find it difficult at all to focus today, given everything that's going on around to go out there and shoot the number that you did?  
PATRICK CANTLAY: No, not at all. I heard one of the guys walking with my group said something on the maybe the 6th or 7th hole, so I didn't even --   
 Q.  But then the events of last night and into this morning where you knew the decision to play?  
PATRICK CANTLAY: Right, no, I mean it's just business as usual, go out there, go to work. I didn't really think much about it.   
 Q.  It certainly didn't affect Hideki, did it?  
PATRICK CANTLAY: It did not, he played great. So, yeah, I played well, Hideki played really well today, yeah. And it was actually it was sneaky hard out there. I got so many mud balls that it was darn near a complete guessing game four or five times from the middle of the fairway. So 5-under is a good score today for me.   
 Q.  What kind of a dynamic was that to get ready for how it's going to be?  
PATRICK CANTLAY: Yeah, it might be a little weird, it might be like junior golf or high school golf where there's really nobody but maybe some family member out there following. It will be weird. But I think it's obviously better than cancelling the event.   
 Q.  Were you surprised when you showed up today and there were fans here given what other sports leagues have done?  
PATRICK CANTLAY: Maybe a little after I read the NBA basically, I don't know what the proper terminology is, but postponing really the rest of the season until further notice. So maybe a little bit, but I'm not an expert in any of it, so and it's a decision that's higher than me so I can't control it. So worrying about it is useless.   
 Q.  The conditions staying similar to this, is it going to be a shootout the rest of the tournament?  
PATRICK CANTLAY: If it stays soft like it is, yeah, I mean, I think you see that every once in a while at this tournament, definitely historically this time of year moving back to this time of year, I mean I think Norman has shot some crazy low number here and Davis Love has shot some great numbers here. So the golf course is short; if you drive the ball in the fairway you can have a lot of scoring opportunities.   
 Q.  Unless the wind blows is there really nothing the agronomy department can do to hold you guys back?  
PATRICK CANTLAY: I wouldn't say that. They have SubAir on these greens so they can do whatever they want. I was a little surprised at how soft the fairways were, especially getting all those mud balls. I don't think that's, I don't think it should -- the golf course should ever play like that. But no, I mean, I think if the conditions stay how they are, with light breezes, you're going to see low numbers and that's kind of normal for this place.   
 Q.  At what point did you learn that there would be no fans the rest of the week?  
PATRICK CANTLAY: Well with only with a couple holes to play. And it really didn't surprise me, given what I heard this morning when I woke up.   
 Q.  Will you miss the bumpers out there?  
PATRICK CANTLAY: The bumpers? The fan bumpers?   
 Q.  The depth perception, any place on this golf course going to be thrown off because there won't be fans in the background?  
PATRICK CANTLAY: I don't think it will affect play. I don't think it will affect play too much. I think it will be weird and it will be a little spooky out there playing, especially if you were to get paired with Phil or something and it's totally empty, that would be weird. So, yeah, but I mean, like I said, I think it's better than not having the event.   
 Q.  Will you miss fan reaction when you knock one two feet, when you drain one from 40, is that something --  
PATRICK CANTLAY: It's definitely part of the joy and the fun of my job. So I like playing in front of people and I haven't played a competitive golf round without people around for a long time, so it will be different and it will be -- it is sad, but like I said, I think it's better than not having the event.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT