WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 25, 2021
Patrick Cantlay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Are you playing good enough to win these matches?
 PATRICK CANTLAY:   Yeah, both guys both days have played excellent, I just played just the one shot better.  So, you got to expect it every time tee it up in match play that the other guy could be hot.  But I'm playing really well right now, so hopefully tomorrow will be easier but I don't expect it to be.
 Q. Seems like the difference in this match is 15 holes were halved.  I think.  That sounds about right?
 PATRICK CANTLAY:   Sounds right.
 Q. Was that tougher than any give and take you had with Brian yesterday?
 PATRICK CANTLAY:   No, just, when guys are so many under par, I think Brian was 6-under par maybe yesterday with a double bogey and Carlos was 5- or 6-under today, it's just, it's really hard.  It's going to be hard to beat those guys.  So I mean I think I shot maybe 5-under on the back nine both days or maybe 6-under yesterday, so that's really good playing, so I'm happy with where everything's at.
 Q. Is it hard, I mean basically even in stroke play you've got to reset every day, but is it harder in match play, are there any nuances about it when you've played I think you're 15-under through two days and it doesn't matter, you still start fresh tomorrow, to get that into your head?
 PATRICK CANTLAY:   I don't think so.  I think every day feels like the last round of a tournament and so even every hole it's so decisively different there and stroke play, stroke play has a natural rhythm where it feels like it builds every week, and match play it's just right on the first hole every day you feel like it's sudden death almost.  So I think my mind frame won't change, I'll just take a bunch of confidence knowing I'm playing really well.
 Q. You made a lot of really, really good putts today, some of them to par or half holes, what have you, what stands out, what pleased you the most of those putts and that?
 PATRICK CANTLAY:   Yeah, my stretch, 13, 14, 15, 16, I think, I made like a 10-footer, and then an 8-footer, and then two 5, 6 foot putts, all when I needed them.  And that feels really good.  I hit a lot of really good putts early in the round and then that last putt on the last hole making those putts in match play that's what it's all about, so it's really satisfying, gives me a lot of confidence going forward when you can make all those mid-range putts, especially on holes when you need them.
 Q. Anything change tomorrow knowing that if you win you move on, does that change your mentality at all?
 PATRICK CANTLAY:   I don't think so.  Hideki's a really good player and I'm sure he'll bring it so I definitely like the position I'm in and I like that I'm playing well but I'm going to take the same mindset tomorrow and be aggressive when I can.  I think with the golf course being soft it's going to take a lot of birdies.
 Q. Has that been mentally not mentally but just tire some and taxing to play great and have to really sweat it out on the 18th?
 PATRICK CANTLAY:   When I grew up thinking about playing, I liked playing when it's intense like that.  So I think the more positive experiences you can have when it is intense and you do need to make putts and hit good shots, the more times you can pull that out, I think the more confidence you can take going forward.  So I actually, with how well I'm playing I like it, so I'll definitely be one of the most battle tested by the time tomorrow rolls around.
 Q. Do you have a relationship with Patrick Reed?
 PATRICK CANTLAY:   Yeah.
 Q. And what do you think, do you think he's comfortable with his image like it is or do you think he wants to soften his image and help change his reputation in any way?  I told you it was off the wall.
 PATRICK CANTLAY:   Yeah, maybe pointed or a "gotcha" question.  I've played a lot with Pat and I respect the hell out of him.  He's a fierce competitor and he wins a lot of golf tournaments.  And so when he's playing well, he gets on a roll and we saw that earlier this year when he won.  So I respect him and he's -- we played that New Orleans tournament a few times and so he's dangerous when he plays really well, so I'll see what he's doing today out on the course.
 Q. When players say, and they all do that, they expect their opponents to make putts, do you really expect it?
 PATRICK CANTLAY:   Yeah, I think you have to.  I think you have to.  I think the other way would be bad.  In fact, I find myself thinking, even with a chip that's marginally makeable, I'm thinking he's going to make it.  Just because it's so much easier doing that than the opposite.  You never want to be caught off guard.
 Q. Have you ever fallen into that trap?
 PATRICK CANTLAY:   Maybe a few times, but not very often.
 Q. Not today?
 PATRICK CANTLAY:   Not today.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT