SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 5, 2019
Patrick Cantlay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Patrick, I don't know the answer to this question. Sometimes I think I know what you're going to say; I have no idea. Are you happy with the round? You tee'd off with the lead and played so well, and yet you lost ground.
PATRICK CANTLAY: Yeah, I played really well today. I've came from behind here before so I know what it's like. It's a fun golf course to go out and try to make as many birdies as you can. That's what I did today and that's what I'll do tomorrow.
Q. One thing you really did today was take care the par-5s I thought.
PATRICK CANTLAY: Yeah, I played the par-5s well. Everything I did today was really solid. One loose swing on 17; other than that, cleaned up real nice. I didn't make any long putts, but hit a lot close and played nice.
Q. Yeah, I was looking at the total number of putts you've made. Through 54 holes, 271; Kevin Na made 202 on Friday alone, but that's because you're one of the leaders in in the tournament proximity to the cup. You didn't have to make very long putts at 3 and 4 today?
PATRICK CANTLAY: Yeah, just tap-ins there, and more of those are always a good thing. Hopefully a few go in tomorrow. If I make a couple long ones I can shoot another low one.
Q. I imagine that we'll see really good scoring for the final round. On go from the start?
PATRICK CANTLAY: Yes, sir.
Q. Well, asked and answered. Thank you so much. Look forward to seeing you in the final round.
PATRICK CANTLAY: Thank you so much.
Q. Thoughts on the round today.
PATRICK CANTLAY: Yeah, I played really well from the start. Didn't take advantage of the back nine as well as I would've liked, but all in all I played really solid.
I just didn't make any of those 15-, 20-, 25-footers. Played the front real nice and got off to a good start and I am in a good spot for tomorrow.
Q. What's the feeling when you start the day with the lead, shoot a 63, yet you're and still looking up at somebody on the leaderboard?
PATRICK CANTLAY: Yeah. It's a four-round tournament. It's what I expect out here. Everybody can shoot the lights off this place, especially with the weather is like it was today. That's the attitude for tomorrow. I mean, I know it's going to take a lot of birdies. Fortunately, that's an attitude I'm comfortable with, and I'm looking forward to tomorrow.
Q. Is this place pretty easy to be aggressive on?
PATRICK CANTLAY: It is, especially if you play from the fairway, which fortunately this week I have. Like I said before, I hit a lot of drivers around here, and that gives me lots of scoring opportunities. So, yeah, it's a good golf course for me.
Q. And you've won this before; Kevin has won this. You guys will be looking at each other tomorrow. Talk about what that's going to mean.
PATRICK CANTLAY: Yeah, obviously he's playing really well and is comfortable with this place, as am I. I've came from behind here before and I'm really looking forward to it.
Q. (Regarding putts slowing down at some point...)
PATRICK CANTLAY: You know, doesn't really matter, in my opinion, especially because there are so many guys that are just right behind me. And obviously you saw today Tony and some other guys 8-, 9-, 10-under is totally possible around here.
So more than likely it's going to take something -- the lead is at 22. It will probably take around 26-, 27-under par I would imagine. Get to a number like that, probably be in a good spot.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT