BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
August 18, 2019
Patrick Cantlay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You gave it quite a run. How you would you sum up the day?
PATRICK CANTLAY: Yeah, I played well today. 7-under, I think it's my best round of the week. So, I played really well. I made a lot of birdies which is what I needed to do, just a little bit short.
Q. Back-9 when you tried to make a run there a couple putts that kind of whiffed out. What was going through your mind at the time?
PATRICK CANTLAY: I knew I had to make birdies because that is what I was trying to do. I thought I hit good putts, both on 14 and 15, they just didn't go in. And some days it's like that.
When you are as far behind as you are you kind of need everything to go right. Neither of those putts dropped at a point where I kind of needed them to.
Q. Patrick, you're playing with Justin today. Is it tough to put aside I got to match him shot for shot as opposed to worrying about your game and what you need to do?
PATRICK CANTLAY: I kind of do everything to stay in my game plan. My game plan the whole week was to make as many birdies and if you hit it in the fairway, hit it as close as you could because the greens were so soft. So that was just my game plan all day today.
I executed a lot of really nice shots, stayed aggressive all day and made some nice putts. I really did play well.
Q. When was the time during the round where you felt like you were making him sweat the most? Was there ever a point like you felt like?
PATRICK CANTLAY: Well, I think I needed to make any of the putts on 12, 14 or 15 if I really wanted to get some momentum on my side. Seemed like him saving par on 12 was big and then obviously I tried to, you know, get one back on 13 and then he made it on top of me.
So, he just played really well and it was going to be hard for me to get to 25-under anyway if I would have had to get there.
Q. (Inaudible)
PATRICK CANTLAY: I'm you really excited. Obviously my focus is a little more on the last week of the year, next week. So, I don't know if it's quite -- my brain is not quite there yet. When it does I'm going to be very excited because I haven't played team golf since 2011 Walker Cup. I really love it and I've heard great things about Royal Melbourne. I'm excited to have a good week with the guys.
Q. (Inaudible)
PATRICK CANTLAY: Yeah. Something I've learned is the more you can spend time with the best players in the world the better your game can get if you draw on the right things. So, I'm definitely going to have my eyes open that week and see what the guys, how they prepare and see what goes into the team event because it might be a little different because we played so many individual events throughout the year and throughout my life. Like I said, I haven't played one in 8 years.
Q. You moved into 2dn and it means you start 8-under next week. How do you wrap your head around all the starting stroke stuff? How much thought have you given to that?
PATRICK CANTLAY: I'm not really -- I haven't done it before so I don't know what to expect. So, I'm just going to go out and have a good game plan for the golf course and stick to that and let the chips fall where they do.
Q. Nice to start at 8-under though?
PATRICK CANTLAY: It doesn't really matter, you know. So, it's just -- I got to play the golf course.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT