BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
August 15, 2019
Patrick Cantlay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Good round out there today, 6-under, but maybe the short game is what kept you in it.  You only hit 11 greens out there today.  
PATRICK CANTLAY: I hit a lot of fringes.  I actually hit the ball really well.  And this golf course is a little bit like that; you can leave it on the fat side, and as long as you leave it below the hole you can get up-and-down.  But all in all, I played really well, and it was nice to save par on 16 and make the one on 18 to give myself some momentum going into the rest of the week.   
 Q.  This golf course maybe not exactly like the Memorial, but similar in a lot of ways?  
PATRICK CANTLAY: I think so.  I think it's a premium on driving the golf ball, and it's no tricks.  Like I said, you can leave the golf ball fat side and play smart to hole locations or holes that are tough, especially when you're out of position, and then when you get in position, the greens are kind of small, so you can fire at flags, and it's soft today, and we might get some more rain, so I think that's going to be the case tomorrow and the rest of the week, as well.   
 Q.  Excellent start.  If we can get some comments on your round.  
PATRICK CANTLAY: Yeah, I played really well.  I drove the golf ball pretty good.  Got out of position a few times, but all in all, hit it really solid and made some nice putts, especially in the middle of the round, which kind of gave me some momentum.   
 Q.  At the start of the round did you see the scores and did you think you had to get on the giddy-up and post?  
PATRICK CANTLAY: Always when the golf course is soft, I feel like scores are good.  Even at a golf course that's long and the rough is long this week.  But I kind of just stick to my game plan, and there's definitely some scorable holes if you can drive the ball in the fairway.  I hit some really nice drives today and was able to make some birdies.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT