RBC HERITAGE
April 20, 2019
Patrick Cantlay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 5-under 66.  Right now that's the low round on the golf course.  It has been cold.  It's been windy.  What are the biggest challenges on the course today?
PATRICK CANTLAY: It's hard to hit fairways out there.  Greens are a little slower, so you can be aggressive with your putts.  Fortunately I didn't make very many mistakes.
Q. You didn't make many mistakes last week, either, you put yourself right into the mix.  When you look at your game right now, how many top-10s you've had this season, is this the best your game has ever been in?  And what parts are you especially proud of?
PATRICK CANTLAY: I'd say everything feels really good.  When I first came back from being hurt my short game was lacking.  Right now it feels great.  And I'm really comfortable out here.  I've seen the golf course a few times, which is huge, especially around a place like this.  So I knew coming into the week how comfortable I was going to be with the golf course and that I liked it.  Everything feels good.
Q. Bogey-free, 5-under for the day.  You get it to minus 8 and that included that fantastic up and down at 18.  How tough was it get around this place bogey-free and get to that number?
PATRICK CANTLAY: Yeah, bogey-free is a huge deal, especially with the wind blowing.  I got up-and-down a bunch of times, really.  The biggest one was probably on 12.  I drove it in trouble a little bit.  And got up and down from 50 or 60 yards or so, that was a big key moment for me.
Q. Tied for 7th last year at this championship.  You're back in contention again.  How are you feeling about Sunday at RBC Heritage?
PATRICK CANTLAY: I love the golf course.  I feel really comfortable around this place.  Being my third time being here I feel like I know it well.
Q. Third tournament here, third time in contention on Saturday.  How was the round today?
PATRICK CANTLAY: It was good.  I played really solid today.  I hit a bunch of quality shots, especially in the wind and got up and down when I needed to.
Q. Starting to feel the course out a little bit more as you get here each time?  How has it changed from Thursday to today?  Weather has become a big factor?
PATRICK CANTLAY: Yeah, obviously with the wind blowing today and yesterday like it did.  Yesterday in the morning I played and it was still considerably windy.  The golf course plays different, you have to knock down the golf ball and keep it in front of you.
Q. Tomorrow what are your plans to try to take it to the top of the leaderboard this time?
PATRICK CANTLAY: Yeah, I think you have to play the par-5s really well.  And play conservative on a few holes, depending on the hole location.  I've seen it on Sunday before and I imagine there's going to be a lot of similar hole locations.  I feel really comfortable around the place, so just stick to the game plan and execute.
Q. Talk a little bit about your mindset leaving Augusta and then coming here and playing well again.
PATRICK CANTLAY: Yeah, I played really well on the weekend and I feel really good about my game.  It's a golf course I feel really comfortable on so I look forward to this event every year.  And I feel like it suits my game.
Q. Anything in particular you took away from the Masters?
PATRICK CANTLAY: Playing that well on the weekend is obviously huge.  I feel like I usually play well and close strong.  It's nice to see it on that golf course because we're going to go back year after year after year.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT