THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE
June 1, 2019
Patrick Cantlay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You're in a good position once again.  A lot of top-10's this season.  What do you need to do to get across the line tomorrow?  
PATRICK CANTLAY: Just more of the same.  I'm playing really well, and give myself as many looks as I can.  I'm striking the ball really well right now and putting well, too.  Just got to get a couple to go and hit it real solid again.   
 Q.  Fourth place here last year.  What do you like about playing here?  
PATRICK CANTLAY: The golf course suits my game.  There's a huge premium on driving the golf ball long in the fairway.  And if you can control your distance coming into the greens, you can have a lot of looks.  The greens are really slopey, and there's a lot of hole locations where the ball gathers to the hole.   
And being able to know your distance and knowing where to leave it so it will feed to the hole is important.  And I feel like being back here my third year I'm getting a better feel of it.  And I'm starting to feel really comfortable around the golf course.   
 Q.  Not to dive too much into everything you've been through in your career, but when you've gone through some of the things you've gone through, does it make you appreciate success and being on the cusp of having a chance to win tomorrow a little more?  
PATRICK CANTLAY: You know, I'm very fortunate that I was able to overcome the back injury that I had.  And so I'm grateful to be playing golf.  Even being able to go out with my friends is something at a time I didn't know for sure if I was going to be able to do again.  But that stuff feels totally separate from competing and preparing to win a golf tournament.  I feel like I put myself in good shape.  I'm going to go out there and shoot low tomorrow.   
 Q.  When you were at UCLA, were you here with Jack for something when you were in college?  
PATRICK CANTLAY: Yeah, I won the Nicklaus Award, so I came here to accept the award.   
 Q.  When you are in contention, when you're leading or one or two back, how different is that for you?  Is there a preference?  What's the feeling like?  
PATRICK CANTLAY: Not really.  Nowadays there's so many good players that are usually bunched on the weekend that any one of them can shoot a really low score.  You have to be smart when you need to be, but you've got to fire when you need to, too.   
It's going to take a low one tomorrow, and seems like the scores keep getting lower and lower and lower.  So there's no real-time to protect.  So I'm going to come out firing tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT