PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 19, 2019
Patrick Cantlay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  2-under total.  Talk about today's round, how hard was it out there?  
PATRICK CANTLAY: It was very difficult, yeah, especially once you finish the first six.  Really, really windy, and so it's hard to get the ball in the correct spots.  It's hard to get the fairways.  And when you turn and you get the holes into the wind, or cross-wind, really, really difficult.   
I played really well.  I hit a lot of good shots.  I actually hit some good shots that didn't end up in good spots.  Caught gusts.  I'm sure everyone was catching gusts out there.   
All in all I played well.  I made a nice up-and-down on 17.  I'm happy with the way I played.   
 Q.  You're having a phenomenal year really.  I looked at your record.  Many people may not know you're the No. 1 amateur in the world.  You know how to play, compete, win.  What's next for you on the agenda?  
PATRICK CANTLAY: Yeah, it's just sticking to my game plan.  I feel like every week I show up extremely prepared and extremely ready to play well.  And I have been.  I had a lot of nice finishes this year, and looking to get some Ws.   
 Q.  Let's talk about preparation real quick.  I know you have a trainer.  I know you work out.  I know the body is really important to you because of past injuries.  Just talk about a little bit about the body and swing connection, how important it really is.  
PATRICK CANTLAY: Yeah, for me it's very important.  I was out for three years with a back injury.  So I know what it's like to not feel right.  It's a lot easier to play when you are feeling right.  So I do a lot of prep work before and after to make sure my body is feeling good.  It's a big part of it for me, and I notice a big difference.  I feel like I'm a lot more consistent when I'm healthy and I don't have any aches or pains.   
I've been on a good run lately, and I think that's a lot of credit to my team and the hard work everyone is putting in and the time I'm spending on my body.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT