MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 13, 2019
Patrick Cantlay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. I believe this is the first time breaking 70 in a competitive round here and you do it parring the first three par‑5s. How do you explain what you just did?  
PATRICK CANTLAY: Yeah, I forgot to birdie the easy holes. I just felt like I hit a bad drive on 2 and didn't birdie 2. Made a nice par, actually.   
I should have birdied 3. I almost was able to drive it on the green, I was just short. Hit a bad chip.   
But birdieing ‑‑ I birdied a lot of the harder, hardest holes, I birdied 4, I birdied 9.   
I didn't birdie 5, that's too hard.   
I birdied 11, I hit two really, really nice shots on 11 and that kind of propelled me into the back nine.   
Birdieing 14, 14 always gives me trouble with that lie below my feet, but the hole location there is a little easier. And fortunately getting the ball up‑and‑down from the fairway after driving it in trouble on 18 is huge.   
   
 Q. What kind of lie did you have in the bunker on 18?  
PATRICK CANTLAY: It was just too far. I pulled my tee shot, it was just too far up against the lip, I couldn't have got it to the green and with that hole location I wanted to leave myself back a little bit so I could have some spin coming into that hole location.  
   
 Q. When did you start thinking about the course record?   
PATRICK CANTLAY: I didn't really think about it. I drove it ‑‑ I didn't really think about it out there today. I drove it in‑‑  
   
 Q. (No Microphone.)  
PATRICK CANTLAY: No, I drove it in trouble on 17 and I was trying to make par and leave it below the hole and I had to hit a high draw around the trees and it actually got up there pin high. So that felt like a steal there.   
I didn't feel, I wasn't worried about it, I was just trying to stay aggressive and make good swings.  
   
 Q. Your caddie didn't mention it?  
PATRICK CANTLAY: No.  
   
 Q. The follow‑up on you shooting under 70 for the first time and shooting 64, what was the difference?  
PATRICK CANTLAY: I mean out of all the rounds I played here this was the easiest scoring condition wise. I got out early and the ball was going the right distance, the wind wasn't blowing too much, greens were soft, and the hole locations were much easier than the last few days. I thought the last few days the hole locations were really tough and I saw a few that I actually had never seen before. So it was kind of the perfect storm for a good round.  
   
 Q. What's your sense, will that score be matched or bettered in the afternoon wave?  
PATRICK CANTLAY: I don't know what the weather's going to be like this afternoon, so I wouldn't be surprised to see some good scores out there. But as you know, a major, on the weekend, it's tough to put a really low one together.  
   
 Q. When you left here as low am, did you have any doubt in your mind you would be back?  
PATRICK CANTLAY: No. No, I felt like I would play the next year. It took me a little while longer to get back to playing. I played last year again for the second time.   
At that time it felt like everything was going so well, that I was going to be back the next year.  
   
 Q. You always thought that you can play this golf course, you felt comfortable as an amateur?  
PATRICK CANTLAY: Yeah, I love this place. I love fast greens and I love when the greens are really slopey, it's easier for me to see the ball going into the hole, see the ball breaking into the hole. So, yeah, I love this golf course.   
   
 Q. Scoring conditions aside, what did you do today that you didn't do the first two?  
PATRICK CANTLAY: I controlled my distance into the greens a little better and I was coming in from the fairway more, I drove it really well today, and I made a few longer putts early in the round. I just hit it really solid, I hit a lot of really nice shots.  
   
 Q. Which shot were you most pleased today do you think? You have a lot to choose from.   
PATRICK CANTLAY: Getting up‑and‑down on 18, the lip shot. Just, just getting up‑and‑down after all that was big.   
   
 Q. Will you watch this afternoon?  
PATRICK CANTLAY: Yeah, I'll watch golf this afternoon.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT