THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 24, 2018
Patrick Cantlay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What went well for you?
PATRICK CANTLAY: I played really well.  I did everything very good today.  I was happy with the way I fought myself around the golf course and I hit a lot of solid shots.  Left myself below the hole, which is key out here.  Just need to get some putts to go in, and I could have a real nice weekend.
Q. You're in a good position heading into the weekend.  Do you have any strategies going into the weekend?
PATRICK CANTLAY: Same strategy:  Fairways and greens.  Fairways are a premium out here and realizing where below the hole is coming into the greens, because the greens have a lot of slope.  It's an old-style golf course, which I like, so same game plan for me.
Q. Being in the Playoffs, what's your strategy going into THE TOUR Championship?
PATRICK CANTLAY: Just trying to stay in the moment and try to win the tournament you're playing right now, that can do the best for you.  Just trying to stick to my game plan and get as comfortable as I can out there and do my best.
Q. You're not a guy watching projections mid-tournament?
PATRICK CANTLAY: No, just going out, trying to shoot the lowest round I can.  I know that's cliché, but that does the best for you.
Q. Do you look at it post-round, post-tournament?
PATRICK CANTLAY: No.  Just trying to be present and the best you can do is try to be as prepared as you can to win the tournament you're in, and staying present and having that mind-set I think is important.
Q. Are you looking forward to obviously getting the juices going and being in the mix on the weekend?
PATRICK CANTLAY: Of course.  That's why we're out here playing and why I'm out here playing.  I feel like I've prepared really well for this event and I like this golf course and I feel like I'm in a good spot.
Q. How did Vegas help you?
PATRICK CANTLAY: I think any time you have success, it's good, and you can build on it.  I have definitely built on some confidence that I got there in Vegas and felt good to get my first win earlier this year and hoping to add to it.
Q. Watching on the computer, playing your last hole, makes me wonder what you have that allows you to only hit it 65 yards, was the rough that thick?
PATRICK CANTLAY: I had a bad lie and I was trying to keep it low.  There was maybe a little -- it was kind of raised and I kept it too low and it hit the hill.
Q. What have you found to be the key around this place so far?
PATRICK CANTLAY: Fairways and greens.  Below the hole.  Knowing what's going on up around the greens, because they are pretty complex and very sloped usually one way.  So being able to control your golf ball and leave yourself below the hole is key.
Q. Do you ever look back at your last couple months?  How do you think you've been playing and how is your form coming in?
PATRICK CANTLAY: I actually feel like I've been playing really well lately.  I finished sixth at Akron and felt like I played really well there.  Finished well at the British Open and birdied the last hole there for 12th or 13th.  I feel like I've been playing well.  Maybe I just haven't been playing a bunch of events the last couple months.
I feel good about my game.  I keep hitting good putts, and maybe they go behind the hole a foot and a half; and if some of those go in, I could start playing really well.
Q. I can't even remember who won Firestone?
PATRICK CANTLAY: Thomas.  That's because he wins every week.
Q. Not that often.  I don't know how much experience you've had either through college or early days, when you're playing this tournament, but there's other stuff going on; in this case, trying to make an impression Ryder Cup-wise.  Have you found that to be a distraction?
PATRICK CANTLAY: No matter what position you're in, you're always playing for something, so guys that are outside the Top-125 are playing to get in.  Every single guy out here is playing for something, whether it be Ryder Cup or FedExCup or whatever it is, even the guys playing the Web.com this week, they are playing for something.
So it's nothing new.  I'm just trying to stay present, stay committed to my game plan and stay confident and do everything I can this weekend to win the golf tournament.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT