THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 10, 2018
Patrick Cantlay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Was it easy today?  
PATRICK CANTLAY: Not easy today.  I played really well.  I think when the wind kicks up this golf course is more difficult, and definitely in the afternoon this golf course is more difficult, and I feel really good about getting in with 6-under in the conditions I played in today.   
 Q.  What was the key for your play to be getting those birdies?  
PATRICK CANTLAY: Just taking advantage of the short holes and the par-5s.  I played the par-5s really well.  I hit a 3-wood on to the 12th green, and that's the way you got to play this golf course, you got to take advantage of those par-5s and take advantage of the short holes.   
 Q.  At all surprising to see the scores today?  
PATRICK CANTLAY: Surprising in which way?   
 Q.  That they're 6-under on this course.  
PATRICK CANTLAY: No, not at all.  It's about what I thought.   
 Q.  What's the scoring like opportunity-wise on the two nines?  How do you look at it, birdie chances on the back compared with the front?  
PATRICK CANTLAY: Definitely the par-5s you have to take advantage of and hit it in the fairway, and a lot of it depends on hole locations.  There's some where the ball feeds down.  You can take advantage of those, and you really have to play from the fairway to take advantage of the easy bowl hole locations, and some are really tough and you have to play to the fat side and take your medicine and par is a good score.   
 Q.  Was there a pin on 12 where you go and try to reach the green?  
PATRICK CANTLAY: Depends on the wind and how far up they put the tee box.  In general I like pushing it up close.  I feel like I hit it straight so I got to take advantage of that, but if I don't feel comfortable or the hole location's in a weird spot or the wind's weird I'll lay up and play it short.   
 Q.  But there's not one point or where you say this is a no-go?  
PATRICK CANTLAY: I would say no.   
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  
PATRICK CANTLAY: A little bit.  I think that definitely playing from the fairway and using your brain out here goes a long way.  Being smart about the decisions you make, when to take on holes and when not to, when to push and when to play smart is definitely key on both those golf courses.  But mostly playing from the fairway and playing smart shots, I think they go a long way around these two places.  Sometimes some holes are cramped out here, hole locations can get cramped, greens can get cramped, and playing from the fairway and really controlling your golf ball is key.   
 Q.  What's the best decision you made today, the best brain work today?  
PATRICK CANTLAY: Just overall on the par-5s I didn't short-side myself, which is key.  Realizing that playing from the fat side and the proper side, depending upon where the hole location is, is more important than trying to hit the perfect golf shot.   
 Q.  How did you play 11?  
PATRICK CANTLAY: 11, I hit it down the fairway and I pushed my hybrid into the bunker.  It was the fat side, it was pushed.  There's water over there to the right, but yeah, I mean it was well-struck, it just got on the wind a little bit, the wind was out of the right, but if you don't hit enough club or you feel like you're playing safe on that and leave yourself short left, you're dead.  So realizing that I had to hit enough club down there where even if it got a little right it was still okay, was kind of my thought process there.   
 Q.  2?  
PATRICK CANTLAY: 2, pin high left dead and I hit a really great drive and had a good number in for a 4-iron and I just left it out to the right.  Bunker shot was relatively easy.  I had green to work with.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT