BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 15, 2017
Patrick Cantlay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You have not hit many fairways and yet you've only made one bogey the entire week.
PATRICK CANTLAY: Yeah.  I mean I haven't been in that bad of spots when I missed the fairways and I managed it pretty well.  Everything feels good and when I hit some fairways and able to take advantage a little bit.
Q. Just for the numbers, you hit 3 fairways in the 2nd Round, you hit one fairway on the opening 9 and yet you were just sparkling up there in getting up and down.
PATRICK CANTLAY: Yeah.  Couple were just off, just in the first cut so it was like the fairway.  But, yeah, played really well, took advantage of the short holes.  There's a lot of drivable 4s and some getable 5s.  You got to get your scoring there.
Q. Your scrambling has been really good as well this entire week.
I think it's remarkable, this is just your 12th tournament of the year and yet you're a couple good rounds away from going to the Tour Championship.
PATRICK CANTLAY: Yeah.  I'm not trying to think about it.  Trying to go out every week and trying to win the tournament.
Q. Tell us about some holes we should be looking at this afternoon when the afternoon wave comes through.
PATRICK CANTLAY: Lot of scoring out there, of course, pretty easy, especially on 15 and hit 18 today.  Might even see some drives that go too far into the water in the creek.  I hit it in the rough and kept it short.
Q. Well done.  Really a pleasure watching you play.
PATRICK CANTLAY: Thank you.
Q. Patrick, 65 today.  Great round.  Get some comments, if we can.
PATRICK CANTLAY: Yeah.  I played really well today.  The course is very scoreable, conditions were great this morning.  Wind was -- it was playable this morning, wasn't up very hard and it was soft.
I was second out, greens were perfect so good day for scoring and I think they'll be some low scores this afternoon, too.
Q. What's been the biggest adjustment for you to life on Tour?
PATRICK CANTLAY: Just the travel, getting used to the travel.  I was home for a long time being out for so long with my injury and just getting used to traveling all the time, being away from home and being in hotels and doing that whole deal.
That's definitely the hardest part.
Q. Are you surprised at all your ability to acclimate yourself and come out and play as strong as you have this year?
PATRICK CANTLAY: Not really.  I prepare and practice in order to put myself in position to win tournaments and I feel like I'm able to do that.  My prep has been good.  My body is feeling really good, which is nice for a change, and looking forward to just keep doing what I'm doing.
Q. What's the difference between your hybrid and 3-wood?
PATRICK CANTLAY: Probably 30, 30 yards or 40 yards.
Q. Is that gratifying to look back at the Valspar and think about how far you've come this season, this is where you probably expected to be in 2011 when you were the No. 1 guy?
PATRICK CANTLAY: Yeah.  I mean it's definitely -- if I look back even further than that to when I was sitting on the couch at home, yeah, come a long way.
But, like I said, that's what I've been preparing for, that's how I prepare both mentally and physically and, you know, it doesn't surprise me really at all to be here and I feel comfortable.
Q. What did you do at home?
PATRICK CANTLAY: I just hung at home, practiced, got ready for the tournament, you know.  Saw some friends and just took it easy.
Q. Did you practice every day?
PATRICK CANTLAY: I took a couple days off right after, like usual, and then practiced pretty much everyday leading into the tournament.
Q. How does your game stack up now versus 2011?
PATRICK CANTLAY: Such a long time ago, I don't really think about it.  I'm definitely a little bigger than I was six years ago.  I feel stronger and I feel like I'm able to hit the ball a little farther and I just feel like I have maybe a little better idea of how to prep for tournaments and what to expect out here when I get out here, and definitely more comfortable.
Q. What do you think has been the key to your ability to play this entire year without missing a cut?
PATRICK CANTLAY: You know, I don't even think about cuts or anything like that.  I'm just trying to go out and win the tournament every week.  That's the only goal.  I think with that attitude that stuff takes care of itself.  It's not really a goal in mind to go out and make the cut or anything and not even thinking about that.
Q. Curious, Patrick, on 12, that nice little lie you got there, did you get a blade on it, belly it or was --
PATRICK CANTLAY: I thought about it but I didn't think so.  There was a ton of grass behind it and sitting down actually on the ground and then there was a bunch of grass behind it.  Just tough break but that's what you get for not hitting it in the fairway off the green.
Q. Did you wonder about a double hit?
PATRICK CANTLAY: No, I'm not thinking about stuff like that.  I try to hit the best shot I possibly could and it was just a really tough one and I ended up making bogey.
Q. How long have you felt a hundred percent from your back injuries?
PATRICK CANTLAY: Pretty much all year.  I really took a long time off to try and get ready, to try and get feeling a hundred percent, feeling good, and when I came back at Peeble I felt really good and it's been like this since.
Q. You look back, does it seem like even a longer road back to this state of health now than it really was?
PATRICK CANTLAY: Now that I feel good it feels like normal, feels like I can almost not remember what it's like to feel bad, and when you feel bad you can almost not remember what it's like to feel so good.
I'm really happy to be feeling good.  I got a good program and excited for the future.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT