VALSPAR CHAMPIONSHIP
March 12, 2017
Patrick Cantlay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. That was a heck of a round of golf.
PATRICK CANTLAY: Yeah, I played well.  I did a lot of good things.  Didn't finish it off very strong.  But overall, I played well.  My game's good.
Q. To get back into that moment and to have the juices flowing, to have a tournament in front of you like that, I know it has to be just satisfying to be in the mix like that, because it's been a long time back to get to that moment?
PATRICK CANTLAY: It's nice.  That's what I love to do. I love being in the moment.  I love doing it and there's no place I would rather be.
Q. This check will satisfy what you need to do in your ten starts just two starts into it.  What does it mean to have that burden off your shoulders and have that status full-time and get back out there?
PATRICK CANTLAY: It didn't really feel like a burden to begin with.  I'm not too worried about that.  You know, it doesn't really feel like much consolation at the moment.  I didn't finish the deal.
Q. Do you think back to the bunker shots on the back nine?
PATRICK CANTLAY: Maybe.  I'll think back on a lot of shots but yeah, I just didn't hit the greatest bunker shots.  They were both kind of skinny lies and there wasn't a lot of sand in there.  They were a little tough.  Shouldn't hit it in the bunkers to begin with.
Q. You take a lot of positive out of this week, right?
PATRICK CANTLAY: Yeah, of course.  I'm playing really well.  My health is good.  I feel good.  And you know, that's what I love doing out there.  So as many times as I can put myself in that situation today.
Q. A lot of guys talk about competitive rust and you don't know how you're going to react after the layoff, when you get to that situation, how did you find that your body and I your mind --
PATRICK CANTLAY: I didn't feel like there was much rust.  I felt good today.  I felt like I was ready to go.  Game feels really good.  Everything felt good.  It's funny how fast it comes back actually.
Q. The nerves, too?  You haven't felt those in a while, I'm sure.
PATRICK CANTLAY: Sure.  But really it doesn't feel like I've taken as much time off as I have.
Q. The stretch when you had five, six holes, birdies, what was that kind of stretch like?
PATRICK CANTLAY: That was good. I felt like I wasn't making up much ground, so I guess I wasn't.  I didn't really think about it like that.  But you know, I was just trying to catch him, that's what I was doing, and I caught him and gave it to him in the end.
Q. What do you take from this?
PATRICK CANTLAY: My game's good, you know.  I'm excited to be playing tournament golf and I'm going to try to win the next one.
Q. You said you didn't have any expectations going into this tournament, but with a second place finish, you secure your PGA TOUR card.  What does that alone mean for you going forward?
PATRICK CANTLAY: Yeah, I guess it's the one positive from this week.  But I'm not really thinking about the next tournament.  I was just trying to go out and win a golf tournaments.
Q. The back nine, you had a few birdies and then a couple of bogeys to end this.  You had some trouble in the bunkers.  What do you take away from the back nine?
PATRICK CANTLAY: You know, overall, I played really good golf.  My problem was hitting it in those spots.  But you know, I'm playing really well.  Everything's good, and I'm looking forward to getting back out there.
Q. Any positives you take out of this round -- obviously the last two years, with everything you've been through, to not just contend but finish second, you have to take away something else.
PATRICK CANTLAY: Yeah, I'm just excited to go out and play a game.  It's still early.  So nice to put myself in a spot where I was in contention and looking to do that again.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT