THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 13, 2017
Patrick Cantlay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You set yourself in position you're close enough, good enough, for another good result?  
PATRICK CANTLAY: Yeah, I scored poorly today, I didn't take advantage of the par-5s.  I made some mistakes I don't usually make and I felt like actually I got some bad breaks, but I'm right there, a good low one tomorrow and give myself a shot.   
 Q.  Saying that it was tough out there, that wind was swirling for a long time.  Talk about those conditions and how you have to keep your emotions in check?  
PATRICK CANTLAY: It was tough on the front and I did a lot of good things, smart shots, and I played really well on the front, actually.  It was tough early, it got easier late.  Greens were probably a little softer today, I thought.  The back nine actually wasn't that tough.   
 Q.  You've had the second, third in recent times, what have you learned from those weeks and what do you think you can put into action tomorrow to maybe make it a bit better?  
PATRICK CANTLAY: Just always good to put yourself in position, just keep knocking at the door, keep putting yourself in the right spot and the good round is going to come on the right day and a day soon will be my day.   
 Q.  I didn't look it up, how many at bats have you had here at this place?  How many times you played here in the past?  
PATRICK CANTLAY: I played junior tournaments here but this is my first --   
 Q.  Your first as a pro.  Oh, wow.  
PATRICK CANTLAY: Yeah.   
 Q.  All the leaders were kind of going up-and-down.  How tough was it out there today?  
PATRICK CANTLAY: It was tough.  Definitely mediocre shots got punished.  Course is in great shape.  It's still scorable.  I think if you play really well all day you can get it.  That's what I'm planning on doing tomorrow.   
 Q.  Keeping that focus out there, Saturday at THE PLAYERS with a lot of movement, how tough is it keeping that focus?  
PATRICK CANTLAY: No, I felt like I was focused really well.  I felt like I got bad breaks today.  Usually doesn't happen.  I felt like I hit some shots that were really close that didn't turn out as good as I thought.  I think if a couple of those go my way, it's a different story out there.   
 Q.  I know your focus is on the course but you had a special group following you around.  What did it mean to have all those people out there walking around?  
PATRICK CANTLAY: Always good to have support and have some hometown close family friends pulling for you.  It's great to have them out and I really enjoyed the support.   
 Q.  Did you notice their presence out there?  
PATRICK CANTLAY: Yeah, of course.   
 Q.  Did you win a junior event here?  
PATRICK CANTLAY: I did not.   
 Q.  How do you explain, given your first time and most guys' first time guys around here don't do so well.  What is it that's kept you in it?  
PATRICK CANTLAY: I like the golf course.  I think it rewards a smart play and solid shots.  I've played well this week.  I prepared well for the event, felt really comfortable out there, and my game plan is solid.   
 Q.  Would you consider yourself to be more of a tactical guy than just a bomber, dump and chase type, go get it?  
PATRICK CANTLAY: Yeah.   
 Q.  This golf course taking the driver out of the hands of a lot of guys hands, you're all playing to the same spots and pretty much everybody can get to those spots.  
PATRICK CANTLAY: Sure, I like figuring out what the best way to play the ball is and playing my practice rounds and really charting it and figuring it out and feeling like I pick all the right shots to play.   
 Q.  Talk about that AJGA junior PLAYERS, do you remember how you did?  
PATRICK CANTLAY: I did not win.  I maybe played okay.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
PATRICK CANTLAY: I didn't know that she was coming in.   
 Q.  Big surprise for you?  
PATRICK CANTLAY: Yeah, it's always good to see them.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT