U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 17, 2012
Patrick Cantlay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about the round, talk about No.7?  
PATRICK CANTLAY:   I yeah, I hit that shot well on 7.   It was a good one and rolled in the putt.  
   
 Q.   What do you take away from this week?   Do you feel good, ultimately about where you came out here?  
PATRICK CANTLAY:   Yeah, it could have been a lot better, but it's okay.   My game's in a really good spot right now.   I'm hitting it really well.   And it's just getting sharp and I think a lot will come playing in events, playing the U.S. Open I'm definitely way sharper than I am standing here Sunday afternoon than I was Monday.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about the course and the challenges it presented?  
PATRICK CANTLAY:   The course is great.   This is kind of a standard day here.   We got a little weather and the fog is rolling in, which is cool to see.   The golf course is great.   Fair, tough.   If you hit good shots you can make birdies.  
   
 Q.   What do you say is your comfort level playing in these type of events?   How comfortable are you?  
PATRICK CANTLAY:   I feel really comfortable.   Even in college there's still the pressure you feel on the first tee, the pressure you put on yourself.   It's just golf.   The stage doesn't really make a difference to me.  
   
 Q.   As to the future, I know we always ask you this, would it be fair you might be making a decision tomorrow?  
PATRICK CANTLAY:   Like I said, I haven't made a decision yet.   I still have a lot to talk over with my family and everything.  
   
 Q.   As you're going through that process, what are the key elements here?   
PATRICK CANTLAY:   That's kind of a personal question, I think.   I think it depends on the person.   Like I said, for me it's got to feel right.   And whenever it feels like it's the right time, then it will be.   
   
 Q.   Is there a lot of pressure on you associated with this, do you feel pressure?  
PATRICK CANTLAY:   No, I don't feel pressure, not really.   The golf is going to be the same.   I don't feel pressure about turning pro, it's just part of life.   It's just going into the next stage, whenever that happens.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT