MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 8, 2012
Patrick Cantlay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  PATRICK CANTLAY:   Obviously, there was an up‑and‑down round out there.   I had a bunch of highs and lows.   But 72 is not too bad.   It's just really bad considering how well I've played.   I played really well today.  
   
 Q.   Go through the quad on ‑‑ we'll start on the back.   The quad on 13 and then the double?  
PATRICK CANTLAY:   The quad I hit in the water my second shot.   I actually hit a really nice drive there.   That was like my third time hitting it in the water on my second shot on that hole.   
Then I went over and tried to get a full shot in so I could use the bank behind there, chunked down the water, so that was the fourth time I hit in the water on that hole.   Then I dropped and still thought I could do the right thing.   I didn't want to hit in the water, so I hit it over the green.   Then I chipped it down to the fringe and I really don't want to 3 putt because I don't think I've made 10 in a long time on a hole, so I tapped in for 9.   
   
 Q.   And then go to the eagle.   
PATRICK CANTLAY:   Well, I was really upset, so I wasn't going to lay up, especially after hitting those wedges in the water.   So I hit 3 wood and lucked out and got up to like five feet.   I didn't really care at that point if I missed it or I made it.  
   
 Q.   What do you take away from this week?   It seems like you have a sense of humor about it.   
PATRICK CANTLAY:   I wouldn't have a sense of humor if I didn't play my last five at 5 under.   
   
 Q.   You've had a chance to play some major championship courses.   Now that you've played Chambers Bay, how do you think that course plays?   
PATRICK CANTLAY:   I heard they have made a couple of changes, which they needed out there.   I think it will play different than any other U.S. Open has ever played before, much different than Merion and Shinnecock and all those places.   We'll see, I think it will be a good one.  
   
 Q.   Got the Masters under your belt now, you have been through this very tough experience, does it kind of give you confidence like in the long run, like you were swinging a weighted bat and now you are going to be free to swing ‑‑ I'm making an analogy, you get through the Masters as an amateur, now is it like a confidence builder where it's like nothing is going to be this hard again?   
PATRICK CANTLAY:   Well, it was nice to play.   Obviously I was really happy to be here this week.   I was just playing every week as best I can.   We'll see how it goes the rest of the year.  
   
 Q.   I know it was a crazy round today, but can you assess the four days and what you feel like maybe you learned and what you take from it?  
PATRICK CANTLAY:   Well, I learned a lot about the golf course and angles to play and places to hit it and not to hit it.   I think that's really going to benefit me when I come back in the future.  
   
 Q.   How about your game style?   Did you learn anything about that?   
PATRICK CANTLAY:   Well, I think the really good perfect greens really cleaned up my putting stroke.   I feel great on the greens and I didn't feel that good coming in.   So I feel awesome about my putting right now.  
   
 Q.   Is that kind of a big thing that you have been struggling with?   
PATRICK CANTLAY:   Yeah, it's always nice to stand over a putt and think it's going in and that's how I feel right now.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel that you weren't putting up to your standards?  
PATRICK CANTLAY:   It didn't feel as good as it has.  
   
 Q.   What's it like going to a college event so quickly after playing in a major?  
PATRICK CANTLAY:   It will be good.   It will be fun.   I hope our team can win.  
   
 Q.   Anybody say anything to you, maybe a fellow player, that you are going to carry with you, some kind of perspective or saying that you might tell yourself or some other people?   
PATRICK CANTLAY:   Not really.   John Cook just told me that golf is just golf no matter where you're playing.   So I think that will help considering I played here and I go to a college event next week.   
   
 Q.   You might get the Silver Cup after all?   
PATRICK CANTLAY:   I don't think so.   I think he'll play solid coming in here.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT