TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 26, 2011
Patrick Cantlay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Patrick Cantlay, talk about the learning experience. What did you learn the last few days that maybe you didn't know about yourself that will help you next week and beyond?
 PATRICK CANTLAY: I just learned what it's like to, you know, have a week on the PGA TOUR, make the cut and compete with all the guys. You know, I played in the U.S. Open last week, and it was similar, but this was just my second go-around and it was a lot of fun.

 Q. What was it like when you heard the ovation? And it's been like that for a couple weeks as well, but how special is that?
 PATRICK CANTLAY: It's special every time. The fans here this week were great all week. They're very supportive. I didn't hear one bad thing out there, and I really thank them.

 Q. How hard is it to summon what you did those first two rounds with these last two rounds?
 PATRICK CANTLAY: ...going into the weekend. Just didn't go as planned. And I was actually surprised I was very comfortable out there and very composed and proud of myself for hanging in there.

 Q. How much did these last three, four or five weeks now wear you out physically?
 PATRICK CANTLAY: They have. They've taken a toll. I don't think -- this is the most weeks I've ever been in a row without being home my whole life. 
 So it's tough, but I'm getting used to it, and hopefully I'm doing this for the rest of my life.

 Q. How much does a week like this prepare you for years down the road? You know what this is like. (Indiscernible). How much are you going to draw upon this experience, whether it be next year or after?
 PATRICK CANTLAY: It helps so much just knowing what it's like and talking to all the guys, you know, all my playing partners this week and trying to learn as much as I can from them. And I'm just going to know so much more than a standard rookie out there that's going to these golf courses for the first time, and it's really a benefit.

 Q. Obviously the 60 stands out to us. What will be one thing that when you look back on this when you have some time off that you'll remember about this week?
 PATRICK CANTLAY: I'll just remember the whole experience. I can't really name one thing. 
 But you know, I'm just going to -- it inspires me to work harder and that my game is good enough. And you know, if I can learn more and get myself in that position more, I can only do better.

 Q. Patrick, is there one thing you learned or the biggest thing you learned this week the biggest piece of advice you maybe got?
 PATRICK CANTLAY: Just that my game's good enough and it's a lot of fun. 

 Q. You had a respectable score of under 11. What are some things that you hope to improve on so hopefully maybe next year you'll be in first?
 PATRICK CANTLAY: You know, I just learned some things about the golf course and learned what it's like to be in the lead and be in contention, and I think the more you can do that, the better off you'll be.

 Q. If they want you back here next year, are you going to say yes?
 PATRICK CANTLAY: Of course. Definitely.

 Q. (Indiscernible) text message you the last couple days and congratulate you. How many text messages have you been getting?
 PATRICK CANTLAY: Yeah. Quite a bit. I don't know. But there's been a lot of support from all my friends back home, and it's been great. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT