NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: DEVILS v AVALANCHE
June 4, 2001
Greg De Vries
Dan Hinote
Steven Reinprecht
Alex Tanguay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Obviously it didn't turn out the way you wanted to.  It seems maybe they gained some confidence from their win in Game 4 and you were not able to overtake them?
 
GREG DEVRIES: We had a couple of breakdowns where they got a couple of 2 on 1s. They capitalized on them.  That was the turning point of the game.  They played well.  
 

Q.  You wanted to come in.  You wanted to be energized and move your feet, deliver some hits, generating shots seemed to be difficult?
 
GREG DEVRIES: It was.  They are playing well.  They closed it up.  They are not letting us skate too much.  When we skate, we generate stuff.  We have got to go back to that. 
 

Q.  How about Brodeur?  He seemed to play well tonight too, just when they needed him to make some important stops, although you didn't have second and third chances?
 
GREG DEVRIES:  I  think so.  If he is going to make the first stop, we have got to get bodies in front of him, screens, get those second, third chances.  That's when we are going to score. 
 

Q.  (Inaudible)
 
GREG DEVRIES: Those were the dumps.  If we are going to jump in the play, we have got to make sure we have got a guy back there or we don't turn it over and we did.  It hurt us.  
 

Q.  You have a chance to get it back here for Game 7?
 
DAN HINOTE: Certainly.  That's what we are looking for.  We go there and play a tight game, get a couple of bounces, get the score, then we come back here in home-ice advantage.  
 

Q.   How are you going to bounce back?
 
DAN HINOTE:  It is something that you learn when you play hockey.  When you are a kid or growing up through the leagues, you are going to have bad games and teams are going to outplay you.  You have just got to forget it.  Sometimes it is not easy, but that is life around here.  That's what you have to do. 
 

Q.  When they are on their A game, does that allow you to even play their game?
 
DAN HINOTE: I think so.   I think it is more of what we want to do when they are here versus what they do.  We have style that can counteract what they do.  They have a style that stops what we do also.  So the better team is going to win in the end. 
 

Q.  You saw the true Jersey Devils tonight, didn't you?
 
DAN HINOTE: Yeah, we have seen them throughout the Playoffs and we weren't surprised.  We knew they were going to come out hard and we knew what we had to do.  We just didn't do it.   
 
STEVEN REINPRECHT: They played a good game. 
 

Q.  Any letdown maybe because Jason Arnott wasn't in the lineup that psychologically the same ways when you guys were missing Forsberg?
 
STEVEN REINPRECHT: No, it doesn't matter who is in our lineup.  They got a great team all the way through if they are missing few guys, you know, it's not going to make a big deal for them.  But you know, we don't change our game plan.  
 

Q.  What was the mood in the locker room afterwards?
 
STEVEN REINPRECHT: Oh, I mean, we know we have got to come back with a better effort. 
 
ALEX TANGUAY: I don't know if we took too many chances but when you play a team like New Jersey you can't afford to give them many outnumbered situations.  They have great players and they are going to take advantages of those chances and that's what happened tonight. 
 

Q.  When Bourque made that play to break up their two on 1 and you score, were you thinking that was going to turn things around?
 
STEVEN REINPRECHT: We thought we were going to turn things around from there.  It was a big powerplay goal and then we gave them another odd man rush.  We had a bad line change and they took advantage of it.  When you play a team like New Jersey, they play so well with the lead we have  to make sure we play better and then they went on and they scored a powerplay goal in the second. 
 

Q.  Was some of that a product of trying to be  aggressive offensively or is it just sloppy play?
 
STEVEN REINPRECHT: I think we just have to make sure we bear down and we focus a little more.  You get so caught up in the emotion.  This is big right now and you know, we gave them opportunities to win the game and they took advantage of it.  So they played great and we gave it to them. 
 

Q.  Did you come in thinking that you needed to be more aggressive offensively?
 
STEVEN REINPRECHT: We need to be more aggressive that was important for us to play a little better more aggressive.  I think we did that but we just got caught up in a few bad changes and a few bad turnovers and they went on from there.  
 

Q.  First time in the series team has dropped back-to-back games.  Can you bounce back on this one?
 
STEVEN REINPRECHT: Well, you know, we are going to see.  But this is not over.  We are a confident bunch in here and we have played well on the road so far in the Playoffs.  We are not going to quit.  That's for sure.  They beat us tonight.  I think we gave it to them.  We gave them a few turnovers and they played well and they took advantage of  it.  It is up to us to make sure we play better the next game.  
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT