NCAA MEN'S 1ST AND 2ND ROUNDS: SAN DIEGO
March 15, 2018
Terrell Miller, Jr.
Jonathan Stark
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: We have from Murray State, Jonathan Stark and Terrell Miller, Junior.
Q. Jonathan and Terrell, can you talk about how you guys have approached this week?  This is the first time you stepped on this floor here.  How is the team's mentality at this moment?
JONATHAN STARK: We have a focused mentality.  We are going in trying to be focused and dialed in.  We know we have a big one tomorrow and we have to be locked in and focused.
TERRELL MILLER, JR.: We are focused, locked in.  The team is locked in and the personnel that we're covering and ready to get out on this floor and get up a lot of shots and get ready for our game tomorrow.
Q. Can you each comment on the Racers have won 13 in a row now and essentially needing every one of those down the stretch to win the Conference Championship and then the Conference Tournament Championship and talk about going through that 13-game gauntlet of one game at a time?
JONATHAN STARK: We had a long, good stretch.  Been playing team ball, locked in on the defensive end and it's been a great journey for us.  Those 13 games.  We just have to stay locked in and keep it rollin'.
TERRELL MILLER, JR.: We had a good team and it started against our loss at Belmont and we came together after that loss and we were like, man, let's try not to lose another one and we came together and strong on the defensive end and locked in and took it one game at a time and one practice at a time and helped us out a lot to win the Conference Championship.
Q. Jonathan, wondering about you and Beetle and what you saw out of Beetle, you're his roommate overseas and what you guys were expecting in this ball game against West Virginia?
JONATHAN STARK: Me and Beetle were roommates when we were in Spain.  He's a funny guy.  He's a good player, a great shooter.  He's kind of quiet, though.  But he's real cool, though.  We're ready to play.  It's going to be real fun.  We just gotta stay locked in and focused and be ready to play tomorrow.
TERRELL MILLER, JR.: This game tomorrow is going to be a physical game.  Feel like we've got to come in with a physical mindset and try and outrebound and get every shot that comes off the rim.  Whoever gets the most rebounds tomorrow, the most physical team will win.
Q. Playing in San Diego, you should have a bunch of San Diego fans.  What do they have to look forward to?  What would you tell them about rooting for you guys?
JONATHAN STARK: It's going to be a hard-fought game, probably a game of runs.  But we have to stay locked in and focused.  Just play our game.  Don't get caught up in the distractions and those sorts of things, just play our game and stay focused.
TERRELL MILLER, JR.: If you're rooting for us we're going to play hard, play defense and probably shoot a lot of threes.
Q. Terrell, you talk about how rebounds are going to be important in this game and you've been a big role with the Racers this year.  How much has Coach talked to you about how much of a presence you're going to have to be in the paint to beat West Virginia who has a size advantage over you?
TERRELL MILLER, JR.: He told me it's going to be a man's game tomorrow, and, you know, whoever rebounds the ball the best is going to win.  Coach knows my mindset and what type of player I am.  We might be oversized, but, hey, we came here to play and lace up our shoes just like they do.
Q. Wondering your thoughts on Sagaba Konate, obviously you've seen him on film.  What's your take on him?
TERRELL MILLER, JR.: He's a big body.  He plays hard and that's all I seen on him on film that he's a big body.  He plays hard.
THE MODERATOR: Gentlemen, thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT