U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 30, 2002
Bob Clark
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 BOB CLARK:  All three rounds kind of went the same, I birdied 10, 11 and 12.  And that kicked things off.  I was in basically, the same position today, although I bogeyed 9.  So, I was 2-over. 
I had birdied -- birdie chances, didn't really make any birdies.  It's nerve wracking out there with Tony Peterson.  He's a gentleman, a great guy.  He treated me terrific.  That was really a lot of fun.  I played with several good players this week, and I think I learned a lot from it.  I think it will help me in the future. 

Q.  I noticed you were talking to one of the USGA officials.  Who told you you're now exempt from next year's Senior Open.  Were these things you slept on or were you just apprised of them now?
BOB CLARK:  I've been sleeping on it for two years.  I turned 55 this year.  And I've been preparing for this year for two years.  And last year I played at Salem, I didn't make the cut.  This year when I stepped on the course, on Monday, this is a monster.  This is so long.  And to tell you the truth, you don't know if you can shoot 70.  Those par-4s coming down the end you've got to get it in the fairway and hit a perfect shot to hit it on the green.  But somehow, I managed to get it in.  I made the cut and that is a dream.  That's a dream.

Q.  Most everyone out here is watching the leaderboard, I imagine you watched what Paul Simson was doing?
BOB CLARK:  I did last night.  There was no way to watch -- all you had in your mind was you've got to keep it in the ballgame.  He shot 70 the first round, so you know he can do that.  If I shoot over 76, he can win it again.  So it really depended on what he shot today. 

Q.  Does your life get back to normal after this week, are you going to go back to the office Monday or Tuesday?
BOB CLARK:  Flying out tomorrow morning, going to wash the clothes, head to Mauna Kea the next morning for a Pro Am.  So another week of golf.  I don't need another week of golf right now, I'm golfed out.  But it's for my kids and my wife and we're going to have fun and relax.  That's my beautiful wife, Lisa, right there. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
BOB CLARK:  That's okay.  I just as soon handle it or learn how to handle it.  It will be fun.  It will be a lot of fun.






End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT