THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 12, 2020
Christiaan Bezuidenhout
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  First timer obviously playing, shooting a 65 in your first competitive round here. Can you talk about what it took out there?  
CHRISTIAAN BEZUIDENHOUT: Yeah, I got off to a nice start this morning with the course playing pretty soft so you could go for the flags and stuff. So it was nice to get out there early and post a low number.   
 Q.  When you were playing 16, 17, 18 do you kind of have those thoughts of the history that's been made there?  
CHRISTIAAN BEZUIDENHOUT: Yes, definitely. Your whole round basically builds up to that 17th hole, so and playing 16 and seeing 17 on your right-hand side keeps it in the back of your mind. I mean, it's only a 135-yard shot, but just everything that goes around it and everything that we have seen this past 30, 40 years that this tournament has been played, yeah, I mean it's just in the back of your mind the whole round. But, yeah I hit a decent shot in there, actually got a good break there, it just went over the back into that walkway there so, yeah, it was great.   
 Q.  Any nerves at all playing your first competitive round out here?  
CHRISTIAAN BEZUIDENHOUT: Not really, no, I just try and keep it simple, just trying to hit fairways and greens and give yourself chances. So you are always kind of nervous when you get on to the first tee box but, yeah, it's exciting nerves, not something that you have to be scared of or anything like that.   
 Q.  Had you seen the course before this week?  
CHRISTIAAN BEZUIDENHOUT: No, first time here. I only played nine holes Tuesday, nine holes Wednesday. So I hadn't seen anything prior to that, no.   
 Q.  You were on the course when this announcement was made but the rest of the tournament is going to be played without fans. Describe what it was like to be out there today with fans and then how different it's going to be without fans.  
CHRISTIAAN BEZUIDENHOUT: It's always great playing in front of crowds, especially on the PGA TOUR, every week there's some great crowds all around the golf course. So it's going to be different, it's going to be quiet out there tomorrow, so kind of feel like a practice round early on a Monday morning probably. But, yeah, I mean it's a situation that the world's in now and so everyone's got to do what they can do to try and control this situation.   
 Q.  Is it something that will make you more locked in or more focused because there are no fans?  
CHRISTIAAN BEZUIDENHOUT: Not really, I mean every time you hit a shot you kind of just try and shut off, just try to focus for that 30 seconds over the ball and after that it's nice to see so many people all around the golf course kind of running around and stuff like that. It's great to see them enjoying themselves.   
 Q.  How much are you thinking about the Masters, you're in good standing right now, a long way to go there, but this would go a long way towards that.  
CHRISTIAAN BEZUIDENHOUT: Yeah, it's obviously in the back of my mind, but it's a goal for me starting the year off to finish the end of the season in the top-50 in the world to qualify for next year's Masters, so if I do it now it's obviously a bonus and I'll obviously try and keep on playing well to give myself that opportunity to be there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT