BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
September 22, 2019
Christiaan Bezuidenhout
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Bogeys across the whole week. Can you sum it all up?
CHRISTIAAN BEZUIDENHOUT: It was great. I was driving it well this week, so I gave myself a lot of chances from the fairway and stuff, and I scrambled well when I missed the fairway. So it was nice to play solidly, especially on such a demanding course.
Q. Tied second just now, so many positives for you in terms of the way you played and Race to Dubai. What will you take mostly from this week?
CHRISTIAAN BEZUIDENHOUT: Well, just the way I held myself over the weekend, this amount of pressure and stuff, and just the way that I played all around, it's nice to see the hard work pays off. So yeah, I mean, although I missed a short putt on the last, it's a decent week.
Q. After the win in Valderrama, you're going nicely up the World Rankings. How much more confident do you feel in this kind of environment now?
CHRISTIAAN BEZUIDENHOUT: So much more. In the past, I had a couple of times where I threw it away over the weekend and stuff, so I'm handling myself better under this pressure and stuff.
I'm just going to keep doing what I do, keep things simple, as well, and see where I can go from here.
Q. Well-played, a round of 68. It's going to fall short but how pleased are you with your performance out there?
CHRISTIAAN BEZUIDENHOUT: Yeah, I'm pretty pleased. I played well the whole week. I was driving it well on this demanding course, which is key. I mean, to sum it up, I mean, I'm very pleased. It's a solid week and I played well, so I'm happy with that.
Q. Does it show how much since your win how comfortable you feel in a tournament this size, and being in contention throughout the week?
CHRISTIAAN BEZUIDENHOUT: Yeah, I handled myself well over the weekend and stuff, under this pressure, so I'm happy with that. Obviously feel more comfortable playing under this pressure now, and the win also helped a lot with that.
Q. Just about the week itself, the event, the field, the course, the setup, how much have you enjoyed the week?
CHRISTIAAN BEZUIDENHOUT: A lot. I mean, credit to The European Tour and BMW, the main sponsor. It's The European Tour's Flagship Event and you can see why. The golf course is brilliant and everything's brilliant. It's just a great week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT