TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 21, 2013
Will Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


  WILL SMITH:   It just opened up really, and then Kerry Hyder had picked it up at first and we just tried to push him in and I punched it out and it was like a bus from the sky, I just drove it up there and picked it up and scored.

Q.   (Indiscernible.)   Is that just a collective effort?
    WILL SMITH:   That's definitely a collective effort.   That's defense, and we live for moments like that.   We just took that as a collective unit to make a stand right there. 

Q.   It looks like you're playing with such confidence (indiscernible)? 
    WILL SMITH:   The difference for me, I just feel more relaxed.   A lot of things were real tight last year and I just feel like the defense as a whole, we're all very relaxed this year, and we're able to fly around, and if we make a mistake it's just on to the next play. 

Q.   (Indiscernible.)
    WILL SMITH:   That can add into it a little bit.   The coaches, this year you can relate to them a lot more, so they understand where you're coming from, and it's just very more relaxed. 

Q.   Talk about the D‑line, how they played tonight. 
    WILL SMITH:   They did a great job, as always.   They gave pressure back there, actually (indiscernible).   That's the perfect time, time to make a turnover, and that happened a lot tonight. 

Q.   (Indiscernible.)
    WILL SMITH:   You know, I just think the hole opened up and they caught it and I was able to time it up right and get to the gap and try and make a play on the ball. 

Q.   (Indiscernible.)
    WILL SMITH:   We were pretty upset with each other.   It was just lack of communication and just getting lined up.   That's all it was, fitting in the wrong gaps, and they just happened to break one that one, but we've just got to yank them down and get to the next play. 

Q.   (Indiscernible.)
    WILL SMITH:   I didn't get to see that today.   I'll probably give him some love about that tomorrow.

Q.   How big was it from a defensive standpoint when you give up a touchdown and they come back on the offense and score? 
    WILL SMITH:   We always believe in our offense, so for them to go ahead and do it after, they answered on us, that's a big improvement for them. 

Q.   Talk about the break you guys have now, just going into the bye week. 
    WILL SMITH:   It's big to have a break before you go into conference play.   I feel like a lot of guys who are banged up can get a chance to refresh their legs, refresh their bodies, take care of nicks and all that. 

Q.   Coach talked a lot about the swarm tonight.   Can you talk about how you swarmed?
    WILL SMITH:   It's everybody on the defense wants to get a hit on the ball carrier, so everybody just takes off line, one guy holding, everybody else come tag them up.   That's just how it gets done over here. 

Q.   (Indiscernible.)
    WILL SMITH:   I feel like we were pretty prepared this week.   We did a good job with film and practiced with the scouts and everything.   They didn't surprise us too much, we just had a couple mishaps that hit us late, so it wasn't too bad.

Q.   What did you think about (indiscernible)?   How did you think he performed?
    WILL SMITH:   I thought Tanner, he did a great job.   That kid comes every day prepared.   You can tell he's going to be a leader in the future because he comes every day ready to work and doesn't complain about anything, listens, rarely makes a mistake, so that guy is a hard‑working guy.

Q.   (Indiscernible.)
    WILL SMITH:   They run a lot different spots and basically it was different alignment and kind of ran a lot of options, so everyone has got to take care of their own responsibilities.

Q.   (Indiscernible.)
    WILL SMITH:   Yeah, you know, today was pretty good, but I feel like there's a lot of opportunities that we left out there that we could get a lot more.   It's just getting better every day, and keep practicing what we need to do. 

Q.   (Indiscernible.)
    WILL SMITH:   Yeah, it's always good to have the student body behind you supporting everything that we're doing out there.   For them to get loud when we needed them to get loud, that just shows a good sign of this University, that everybody is in tune with what's going on here.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT