TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 3, 2012
Seth Doege
Will Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.   Will, it seemed like after a rough first quarter.   You were there through the second and third quarter you started to play better, actually, quite a bit better on defense.   Were there some adjustments made or what happened? 
    WILL SMITH:   There were a few minor adjustments, but it's just about settling down and just paying attention to what you already know.   Just simple things like that that we should have done earlier that could have helped us prevent a couple more early scores.

Q.   Coach said earlier he didn't want to get into the officials or talk about any missed calls.   When you look at this game, will it be more execution from you guys or maybe officiating? 
    WILL SMITH:   I blame that completely on ourselves.   It's not the refs out there playing.   It's up to us to take care of our responsibilities, and we made a few minor mistakes that they capitalized on.

Q.   Were there any calls out there that would raise an eyebrow for you? 
    WILL SMITH:   There are always some, but you can't really do nothing about it.

Q.   How bad do you feel for the seniors on this team that never got a chance to win? 
    WILL SMITH:   I feel really bad for them because they've been here four years and haven't beaten them once.   So that touches me deep too, because I was in the locker room and got pretty emotional about this loss too.   I understand how they feel.

Q.   Have you ever had one more disappointing than this? 
    SETH DOEGE:   No.

Q.   How difficult is this for you as a senior? 
    SETH DOEGE:   I mean, it's our last chance at UT.   It's our last chance to really try to do something special here that nobody has done before and give us an opportunity to do that.   So that's out of it too. 
    It hurts, but we should let it hurt.   We should know how it feels.   But at the same time we have three games remaining, and we can win all three of those and have a really good season. 
    But it hurts to know that the goals you were after and you set for your team going into the season kind of went out the door with this loss.

Q.   You guys had four different drives inside the 20 that didn't end in touchdowns.   What was the biggest problem that you guys had because you were moving the ball so well?   What was the biggest thing that was keeping you from getting in the end zone? 
    SETH DOEGE:   Penalties.   I don't think I have to explain much of it.   I don't know.   It's hard for me to remember every time we were in the red zone.   But I know when we were in the red zone, every time that we didn't get points, the majority of the time it was penalties that kept us from it.

Q.   Is that a function of playing too aggressive or being in the wrong place at the wrong time trying to make up for something? 
    SETH DOEGE:   I have to watch the film.   I didn't really know.   I didn't see all the penalties.   I think our guys are playing really hard, and maybe some of it was trying to play too hard.   But maybe some of it was being out of place or not doing your job and getting out of position to do something when you do something stupid to try to make up for it.

Q.   Did officiating get to you at all? 
    SETH DOEGE:   No, I mean, you can't let it.   You've got to keep playing.   I thought we did a good job of doing that.   Every time we did get a penalty, we kept playing, and had opportunities to make up for some penalties that hurt us.   We just didn't finish, and that was a big thing that we've been talking about all week is that we wanted to finish.   And in the red zone we had opportunities, we didn't finish.   At the end of the game, we had an opportunity to finish.

Q.   It seemed like the injury after you're 24‑22, you get the three and out and have an injury and a long delay, it seemed to suck all the air out of the stadium.   Did you feel that on the sidelines?
    SETH DOEGE:   No, we were excited.   We had a great opportunity there as well.   We felt good about our first play, we completed it, had second, third and short, but just didn't make plays to continue the drive.

Q.   What happened at the end of the first half?   It seemed like you guys were set on trying to go down and score, then after the run play went backwards?   What was going on with that situation? 
    SETH DOEGE:   I can't remember.   I'm sorry.   I really can't.

Q.   Obviously you've had a lost success throwing to Eric, and some instances Darrin also in that 10 to 15 yard range.   Is that sort of what they were giving you today? 
    SETH DOEGE:   Yeah, we felt good about that.   We had a play call that allowed them to run kind of a post dig, and we felt like their safeties were getting out.   There was a lot of space to win on those routes and throw the football.

Q.   How important is it to get over this one?   It's obviously a little tougher than most?
    SETH DOEGE:   Yeah, it's tough, but that's part of it.   I think we've been around long enough to know that there are three games still left.   We can still, like I said, we can still make a special season out of this.   Three winnable games just like this one.   But we've got to learn from the mistakes on this film and this game, continue to push forward, continue to get better as a football team and try to up our bowl game, whatever it may be.

Q.   Does not having Jace inside the 20 hurt just because of the match‑ups that he creates?
    SETH DOEGE:   We still have some good receivers that can play, but Jace is a really good player.   He's a big target.   Like you said, it's hard for them to man up on him because he is so big.   It's a loss for us.   But at the same time, we still have guys that can do it.

Q.   At halftime, what was the discussion like?   I guess you guys wanted to attack in the second half?
    SETH DOEGE:   I mean, it was just a normal discussion.   We made adjustments, felt good about where we were, felt good about the adjustments that we made.   We didn't want to come out flat.   That was the big thing. 
    We felt like the defense could get us a stop and we could start from there and start putting up points. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT