BALLANTINE'S CHAMPIONSHIP
April 26, 2013
Arnond Vongvanij
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   So how did you shoot 7‑under?  
ARNOND VONGVANIJ:   Yeah, overall, 7‑under, really happy with the way I played the past 36 holes.   The conditions were not easy, and the pins were kind of tough, especially with the wind blowing.   So I'll take what I can get.   
   
 Q.   And you dealt with a lot of disruption, as well?  
ARNOND VONGVANIJ:   Yes, first day was a lot of delay.   Only get to play ten holes.   Today I went out, finished the round and then continue on and played eight holes and a thunderstorm came in out of nowhere, so I think that caught us all by surprise.   
After we go out, the wind started blowing pretty heavily, so I'm glad to pick up I think one more shot coming in.  
   
 Q.   And you managed to keep your rhythm throughout the delays and things.   
ARNOND VONGVANIJ:   Yeah, I tried to stay as relaxed as possible, and during those delays, I just tried to move around, don't just sit there in one place, that helps a lot.   
   
 Q.   I know a lot can still happen today, but what are your thoughts on leading the tournament as things stand?  
ARNOND VONGVANIJ:   I'm just happy with the way I played and wherever the score stands, I'll still stick to my game plan tomorrow and go from there.  
   
 Q.   So that means no particular expectation?   
ARNOND VONGVANIJ:   I try not to have one, because, you know, if you just focus on your game, then it will always work out for the best.   
   
 Q.   Can you tell us a little about your upbringing, because you've been in the United States for some time, haven't you?  
ARNOND VONGVANIJ:   Yes, I grew up in Thailand and in 2001 I went to the David Leadbetter Academy and stayed in the U.S. for ten years.   Throughout my high school and college years, played at the University of Florida.   Turned pro last year, and then got my Asian Tour card last year, and now I'm here.   
   
 Q.   Which should mean that you'll be a nice world player, traveling here, there and everywhere?  
ARNOND VONGVANIJ:   Yeah, to be honest, even though my parents are from Thailand, throughout my childhood, I travelled more in the U.S. than over in Asia.   I think it's my first time going to India, Korea, and those places for the first time last year, actually.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT