NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: RED WINGS v FLYERS
June 6, 1997
John Druce
Shjon Podein
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Is frustration the word here?
 
JOHN DRUCE:  Obviously that is the word. 
 

Q.  But you have tried, and it hasn't work.  This team is on a roll that you are playing?
 
JOHN DRUCE:  They are playing very well.  They are playing together as a unit and that is what successful teams do.  That is what we have to do.  We have to play as a unit.  We have to go out together and everybody be on the same page and do the same things to be successful.  We were successful throughout the season, throughout the Playoffs, we played together as a team and on the same page.  That is the key. 
 
SHJON PODEIN:  Games like that you have got to regroup and move on.  There is no time for us to sit down and feel sorry for ourselves.  We have dug this hole ourselves and it is something that we have got to get out of one day at a time. 
 

Q.  What happened in the meeting?  Did it get emotional? Were people screaming?
 
SHJON PODEIN:  There was not a lot of screaming, but it is just -- we just sat down with each other and said we got to get back to play the kind of hockey we know how to.  I don't know what our problem is.  We are just not playing with the emotional energy that we know we can.  We have got to find it and we have got to find it quick because come tomorrow night, they are going to come out firing again and we have got to be ready. 
 

Q.  Was that kind of a therapeutic thing to get that out in the open?
 
SHJON PODEIN:  Definitely.  Whenever you have problems having problems as a team, you got to sit down and go over what the problem is and hopefully you can clear it up then.  That is something we are hoping we did at this meeting, cleared up the problems that we are having and hopefully come out and be a stronger team for it. 
 

Q.  It is all about pride now?
 
SHJON PODEIN:  Definitely:  You got to play with pride.  I mean, we are not proud of our result on the last game and we are hoping for a little better tomorrow. 
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT