U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 12, 2015
Mariel Galdiano
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Well, was this just one of those days where the game felt easy?MARIEL GALDIANO: No, it was just -- some of them were she kind of messed up, and then some of them were where my birdies came in, like I said yesterday.  One was a birdie and several others -- my final hole was a birdie.  I won with a bogey on one of them.  We were all over the place. For the most part, yeah, I wouldn't say that I was playing phenomenal.  It was just hard for her to get up-and-down in certain places, like here and stuff.Q. What part of your game were you happy with today, if you had to choose one?MARIEL GALDIANO: Irons, I guess.  Putting kind of failed me a little bit.  Missed a few short putts.  And driver, like I said again, it was -- first three holes it was kind of rocky.  I pulled it around at the end, but other than that, yeah, just mostly iron shots and approach.Q. Did you feel like the course played a little differently today as opposed to the last two days, or was your mindset just a little bit different because of match play?MARIEL GALDIANO: The course was a little different, I guess.  We learned how the grass grows in the afternoon, but we noticed how it still rolls out at the same time.  Iron shots we had to like kind of switch back and forth.  Match play mindset, definitely we weren't talking as much as we were during stroke play.  Winning and losing holes are a lot harder when it's against someone.Q. What approach do you take tomorrow?MARIEL GALDIANO: Hit fairways and greens and hopefully putts roll in.  Try to do one shot at a time.  My dad tends to get a little upset, so I need to tell him to like calm down, because when he gets upset, I get upset, and it just ends in chaos.  I just try -- we're just trying to get by here, so that's pretty much it.Q. What does he specifically get upset at?MARIEL GALDIANO: The drives, because I was working on the range yesterday and it was looking pretty good, but I pushed No. 2 once again to the right side, and other -- I think 6, pushed it again.  Just being able to be accurate is real important.Q. Does he just start like muttering or what does he --MARIEL GALDIANO: Not like muttering.  It's like audible and you have the microphones, and it's like, oh, don't turn those on.  We make a lot of side comments.  From the Women's Open we learned to kind of keep it down a little bit when we see the microphone on the green, yeah.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT