UNIVERSITY OF TULSA FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 31, 2020
Zach Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  Tulsa Golden Hurricane 34, East Carolina Pirates 30
 Q. Zach, what was it like on the last drive, all that played out with the lengthy review and the calls going your way, what was that like for you?
 ZACH SMITH:   You know, it was kind of nail biting because any one of those calls could have ended the game for us.  So some big-time calls, some big-time plays by our guys keeping that drive going, and finishing off with a touchdown and putting the nail in the coffin.  It was nail biting but I knew we could get it done.  You know, good teams find ways to win, so it that's what we did.
 Q. I think you were 1-of-10 on third down, converted some big ones in the fourth, as well.  How do you put that out; it's been rough, even if you don't know the numbers, I'm sure you're aware, we haven't been great on third down tonight.  How do you put that out of your head and execute well at the end?
 ZACH SMITH:   You know, like you said, put it out of your head.  It's a mentality thing, and I'm just going out there and just trusting my guys, go out there, get open, trust them to Brock them and give me some time and that's what they did on that whole drive.  Did that.  We executed like we should.  We made it work, so you know, not the prettiest.  Definitely not the prettiest game but we'll take it and you know, like I said, we found a way to win.
 Q. First drive of the second half, you seemed uncomfortable, I'd say, in the first half, and then certainly settled in.  What happened kind of on that first drive, how were you guys able to turn things around and finally get in the end zone?
 ZACH SMITH:   Obviously kind of trusted my eyes and didn't -- I just tried to clear the first half and go out there.  Knew we needed to come out and score.  That was big for momentum.
 Just went out there and trusted my guys through big pass to Sleep, started the drive and got some good runs in there and finished it off with that play to Sleep.  Just trusting my guys to go win, to go execute and that's really all it was.
 Q. Were there any adjustments or just better execution?
 ZACH SMITH:   Just better execution.  I think a lot of it falls on me execution-wise, so I just went out there and just trusted my eyes.  Trusted my eyes and we got it done.
 Q. Each week to start the season, you have a new lead horse in the backfield running the ball, last week Corey and Deneric has done his thing, and T.K. running hard to get you guys in position.  What's it like to have a rotation that any guy can step up and do it and specifically tonight what T.K. was able to do?
 ZACH SMITH:   It's a great feeling having that stable of backs that we do.  We knew we had that coming into the season, and they have just been awesome, stepping in, making plays, no matter who is in.  They are running hard.  They are running downhill, protecting the ball and getting the job done.  T.K. had a great game tonight.  Deneric did some really good things tonight, as well, so couldn't be more proud of those guys.
 Q. Even though it was socially distanced, and 4,000 people here -- how many people were here?  3,900.  What was it like being home, 341 days since a home game?
 ZACH SMITH:   Yeah, there's nothing like it, being underneath the lights in Tulsa.  It's great to be back.  It's crazy that we're just now playing our first home game.  But it's good to come here and get a win in front of our home crowd and our home field, so got to protect.  Got to protect our home turf and that's what we did tonight.  We've got to keep rolling.
 Q. We don't get a chance to talk to T.K., but I guess he had a baby?
 ZACH SMITH:   He did.
 Q. I assume you know him a little bit.  Any idea what this week, capping it off this way might be like for him?
 ZACH SMITH:   Yeah, I think he had his baby, I want to say it was Tuesday, early Wednesday, somewhere in there.  Obviously super excited for him to become a dad.  He's go going to be a great father.  I always mess with him all the time.  He's going to be a great dad.  I think he played his butt off, played his tail off, and I think it's just one of those things that's kind of meant to be for him.  It's a great week and kind of destined for him.  Really, really happy for him.
 Q. You got the final yard bringing in Jackson Player -- did you bring in someone else?
 ZACH SMITH:   Tiger Stevenson, Big Cat, yeah.
 Q. I imagine you're confident in that grouping, being able to pick up a yard when it's needed?
 ZACH SMITH:   Yeah, I'm fairly confident that they will give a bit of push.  T.K. is back there, too, running the ball.  It's a pretty good play.  I like it.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT