MOTEL 6 CACTUS BOWL: BAYLOR VS BOISE STATE
December 26, 2016
Zach Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Week by week, good and bad, what did you learn about yourself physically and as far as being a quarterback?
ZACH SMITH: Yeah, I learned that when I get antsy in the pocket that I tend to maybe force something or maybe not be as accurate.  So I feel like I just gotta stay calm back there and to stay poised.  Like I felt like I was really poised in the Oklahoma game and made some good throws.
I feel I have to stay back there and stay calm and not let the stage get too big or get too nervous out there.  Just stay out there, be calm and make plays like I know I can.
Q. Can you compare how the game slows down once you've been on it?  I know you had a couple of games where it didn't go well at all, but did it slow down and can you kind of describe that?
ZACH SMITH: Yeah, it's hard to describe.  But when you're out there, when you're on the sidelines it seems like it's going 90 miles an hour.  But once you get out there your adrenalin's going and it just really slows down.  And watching film and knowing exactly what they're going to do against some of our plays, that also helps a lot, makes it a clearer picture for me.
Q. When you're a backup, you never know when that time's coming you might have to be full-time.  You played a little bit.  Was that enough to prepare you for what you saw once you started being the guy?
ZACH SMITH: Yeah, I mean, I think it was sufficient and enough.  But I think it would have helped a lot more if I would have got some a little bit earlier, like true reps, but I mean, that's understandable.
But I think it was sufficient enough for me to come in, and I knew what I was doing and what I had to do.  We just fell a little short in Oklahoma.
Q. Can you compare the experience you now have entering the offseason after Tuesday and how much that will matter to you going into the spring?
ZACH SMITH: Yeah.  I feel like, kind of feel like a whole new guy coming in from when I came in and looking at all these workouts and all these plays and stuff like that.  So I think it's given me a whole lot more confidence going into this next season knowing what I can do and knowing what I need to do this next season.  It's going to be fun.
Q. A bunch of guys playing their last game, a bunch of seniors.  Not a lot, but there's some trying to lead this team through a difficult time.  What would it mean to give them a victory to finish it out?
ZACH SMITH: I think that's super important for us and for them and the school.  And we really want to send them out on a win.  I think it would really pick up the morale of the team and for them.  I mean translating it into next season and for the rest of their careers.  I think it's going to be great for us to go out there and hopefully get a win tomorrow.
Q. When you look at Boise State, they're mainly known for what they do sometimes on offense but they've been pretty good on defense as well.  What do you see in a short amount of time you've had a chance to study them?
ZACH SMITH: Yeah, they're a really solid team on defense and offense.  But they're really solid on defense.  They're going to fly around and they're going to be physical.  We can't go out there and play paddycake.  We have to get out there, get after it and grind.  I think it's going to be a fun game, I think.
Q. So that power spread that Baylor's known for, can you reestablish that?  Do you feel like you kind of almost did against West Virginia?
ZACH SMITH: Yeah, I think West Virginia was a stepping stone, kind of.  We hit some big plays and really had some good drives.  I think that was a stepping stone for us to come out.  And tomorrow hopefully do the same thing and play a little bit better than we did.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT