BREEDERS' CUP WORLD THOROUGHBRED CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 1, 2014
Pete Bradley
Jerry Frankel
Ron Frankel
Steve Laymon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Ladies and gentlemen, we're joined now by the owners of the winner of the Breeders' Cup Filly and Mare Turf, that was, of course, Dayatthespa.   We're joined now from our left to right, Steve Laymon, if you'd raise your hand.   Steve Laymon.   And then we've got Pete Bradley.   Ron Frankel is on the far right, and Jerry Frankel.   Congratulations to all of you.   So everybody knows, Dayatthespa, the second New York bred to ever win a Breeders' Cup Race.   First one coming last year, that was London Bridge.   Chad Brown, of course, had to go to the paddock.   He's saddling for the next race.   So we'll get right to the owners.   Gentlemen, I will just let you jump in as you please, as we fire away with the questions.   Just give us your impressions of this race today and how brave this mare was holding on after taking it basically gate to wire.  
JERRY FRANKEL:   First, I'd like to thank Chad Brown and Pete Bradley.   They had so much to do with us being part of the horse, and here we are today.   It's beautiful.   
PETE BRADLEY:   Steve, why don't you start with that?   
STEVE LAYMON:   I saw Javier last night, I asked for one thing, I asked for 1:13 for the three‑quarters, and we got it.   He looked at me and said, "Boss, you asked for it, you got it.   
PETE BRADLEY:   This was a race all about pace.   We have a filly that likes to be on or near the lead.   She relaxes.   And it was picture perfect.   She ran her race against an exceptional group of fillies, put them to sleep on the front end, and took it home.   I don't think that was hanging on, I think that was pulling away.  
THE MODERATOR:   You're absolutely right.   I was going to say that.   Chad had said all week that you would go to the lead and see how far you could take them, but it wasn't just that.   She actually rebroke when asked in the stretch.   
STEVE LAYMON:   A lot of folks didn't think she had a pedigree from City Zip, but her mother's full brother was a mile‑and‑a‑quarter horse, and it's kind of hidden in the pedigree.   So we always wanted her to have her on go long, and we finally got that chance.   
JERRY FRANKEL:   It's so easy to say these things now, by the way (laughing).   Yeah, we were all feeling this, but it's so great when you have it.   Thinking back you can really say, wow, we are great.   
RON FRANKEL:   My wife spoke to her, and she listened.   
THE MODERATOR:   So everybody knows, this is quite a way to go out, but this was her last race, correct?   Can you talk about what happens next?   
JERRY FRANKEL:   Oh, who knows.   
STEVE LAYMON:   Maybe.   
THE MODERATOR:   What kind of thoughts do you have about that?   You have to have some conversations, I guess, but what are the considerations?   
RON FRANKEL:   There's no conversation now.   
PETE BRADLEY:   She's scheduled to sell at Fasig Tipton on the 3rd, on the Monday night, Night of the Stars, she will be there.   
JERRY FRANKEL:   She'll definitely be at the sale ring, for sure.   
STEVE LAYMON:   So will we.   
THE MODERATOR:   We'll talk about her being a New York bred.   She's only the second New York bred.   You guys bought her in part because she was a New York bred, thinking she would fit well in that program, but she obviously out did those expectations?   
PETE BRADLEY:   Yeah, absolutely.   Steve Laymon and I were at the OBS March sale now three years ago now, is it?   And I was looking to put together a partnership of New York breds because of the purse money that was about to be available in New York with the casinos opening.   It just turned out that we did a little better than we thought.   
As a matter of fact, one of my favorite stories is about three months after we‑‑ no, two months after we bought her, Chad Brown calls me and says, "I think you made a mistake."   
I said, "What was that?"   
He said, "I think you bought a nice horse."   
THE MODERATOR:   Have you thought about the Eclipse Awards at all and the possibility of being the Champion Turf Female?   
RON FRANKEL:   Absolutely.   
STEVE LAYMON:   You know, Jerry's used to award.   He's won about nine Tonys.   But he told me it's a lot more fun to win a Grade I than it is a Tony.   
JERRY FRANKEL:   It's true.   
THE MODERATOR:   I'm glad you brought that up.   If you could tell us what you do professionally and how you ended up in racing?   
STEVE LAYMON:   I'm from NorthCarolina, an optometrist, been practicing for 29 years.   My first horse race was Sunny Sides and Easy Goer in 1989, and I've been hooked ever since.   
PETE BRADLEY:   I grew up out here in California, went to UC Davis.   Family had a cattle ranch and hops that go into beer.   
Anyway, when I couldn't find a job I liked, I started walking hots for a gentleman named Jim Cleveland here, and he had a filly named Princess Karenda at the time, who won the Santa Margarita here, beating nice horses like Glorious Song and such.   So that hooked me.   I went from hot‑walker up to Kentucky, and I buy and sell horses now for a living.   
JERRY FRANKEL:   I started out, my father took me to the old Jamaica racetrack that was about 100 years ago, and I used to look around and see who was that down there?   Those are owners and I wanted to be an owner ever since.   And that happened, now I race horses, and breed horses, naturally.   And I'm a theatrical producer of Broadway shows.   
RON FRANKEL:   I do Broadway shows, and I buy horses.   That's it.   That's it.   Simple.   
THE MODERATOR:   Why don't you guys talk more about the job Chad's done with the horse all along, and getting her here today?   
STEVE LAYMON:   Well, you can't say anything but fantastic.   Pete introduced me to Chad when he was still in the system with Bobby Frankel.   And the best handicapping job that Pete ever did was tell me that Chad Brown would be a Top 10 trainer in a few years, and let me tell you, the results speak for themselves.   
PETE BRADLEY:   One thing is, when you have a trainer, you have to have the confidence in them to do what they're supposed to with the horse.   And this whole career has been Chad Brown's doing.   When he told us not to run a couple of times, we grumbled, but we listened to him.   And when he told us she was ready, she didn't disappoint us.   
THE MODERATOR:   I think we've seen yesterday and today that Chad clearly knows what he's doing, and congratulate all of you too.   Terrific effort today.   Congratulations.   Dayatthespa, the winner of the Breeders' Cup Filly and Mare Turf.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT