NL DIVISION SERIES: BRAVES v CARDINALS
October 5, 2000
Craig Paquette
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Since you are used a lot in double-switch situations, how much time in advance does
Tony let you know that that is coming up?

CRAIG PAQUETTE: It all depends, sometimes he lets us know a half inning before,
sometimes a pitch before; he usually is pretty good. The other day when I came in, he let
me know the middle of the inning, so I had two batters to get ready.

Q. It looked like the last ball, how hard was it, looked like it took off?

CRAIG PAQUETTE: I thought I was going to have to run in on it. It was in the shadows, I
ended up making the play.

Q. You had a big home run in Sunday's game, how much did the crowd get you pumped up?

CRAIG PAQUETTE: It got me pretty pumped up. I knew what they were cheering for. I
actually had a chance to look at the scoreboard and saw they put a 4 on the Colorado side.
It got me pumped. I put a good swing on it.

Q. Who do you think you will see Saturday as a pitcher?

CRAIG PAQUETTE: We have no idea. We hope we win, beat Glavine today. We will worry
about that tomorrow.

Q. How impressed have you been with Vina's defense?

CRAIG PAQUETTE: Very impressed. I played against him for a few years. You do not
realize how quick he turns a double play and how solid he is on the routine play, but he
has been impressive.

Q. The difference in playing Game 3, whether you are up 2-0 or 1-1?

CRAIG PAQUETTE: This is my first Playoff Series, I would not really know about it.
Every game we are taking as one step at a time. We will do the best we can and play nine
hard innings and hopefully it will be 2-0 after today.

Q. Playing in your first Playoffs, how different is it from the regular season for you?

CRAIG PAQUETTE: It just seems that everything is so much more magnified, everything you
do, as Fernando said, is more magnified, everybody is watching you, every pitch,
everything you do matters, just coming off the bench like I did yesterday and today. I am
stretching all the time, ready whenever. During the season it might be different, but I am
ready to go whenever he needs me now.

Q. Playing the Pan Am Games last year with a lot of attention, did that prepare you at
all for what you are facing now?

CRAIG PAQUETTE: Yes. I actually think that was my biggest lesson in baseball, as far as
pressure put on a person. I was in Triple A last year, did not know where my future was, I
playing for USA, trying to get to the Olympics. If we did not get there, who knows what my
future would have been. A lot of the guys on the team were veterans. We did not know how
anybody would treat us if we did not qualify for the Olympics, being our pastime. It did
prepare me a lot for -- I came over here after that, it just seemed everything was a lot
less pressure. I was more relaxed. It prepared me a lot better for this.

Q. As many different roles as you have on this club, where do you feel most
comfortable?

CRAIG PAQUETTE: I mean, I am a natural third baseman, I would say that is my best
position. I work so much in the outfield, I went down last year and worked extra on second
base, I feel pretty comfortable everywhere out there right now.

Q. When the Cardinals traded Shawon Dunston for you last year, could you have imagined
you would be back playing together in a Playoff situation?

CRAIG PAQUETTE: No. It was funny, in Spring Training when I played with him, it was
funny, we got traded for each other and ended up on the same team. You never expect that.
I had a lot of fun with the guy. I enjoy playing with him.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT