JOHNNIE WALKER CLASSIC
March 4, 2007
Gaurav Ghei
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Tell us about the finish, how long was the putt? 
 GAURAV GHEI:  I don't know, it was probably 35 to 40 feet or something. I just had a good feel for the speed of the green today and I saw an old hole maybe three fourth's of the way to the hole today and I just said roll it over that and it'll end up pretty close. It was unreal. It was great to play a round like that on a course like this. This is one of the biggest events of the year for us and it's special playing a good round and finishing off a big tournament well. 

 Q.  How does this compare with your other rounds in your career? 
 GAURAV GHEI:  I shot a 63 at Hong Kong Golf Club a few years back. To shoot a 64 at a course like Blue Canyon and to tie the record on the final round of the Johnnie Walker Classic is fantastic. 

 Q.  What happened at the first? 
 GAURAV GHEI:  I hit an okay tee shot and had a perfect distance with a wedge. When I hit that shot, it looked really good and I heard it hit the pin. On the first day, on the 10th hole, my playing partner Jean-Francois Lucquin hit the pin and ended 30 feet back. On the 11th hole, Scott Strange hit the pin and ended 30 feet back. My first reaction was "I hope it's on the green." Then the guys around the green didn't realise what had happened and suddenly they figured out it's gone in and then they go "yeah". I had exactly 130 yards to the pin. I'm just absolutely delighted with the round, I don't really care where I finish. I can just sit back and enjoy a nice cold beer and enjoy watching the golf. I'm happy. 

 Q.  Going to Singapore with some very good form? 
 GAURAV GHEI:  Yes. But this game is very fickle but after today's round I'm looking forward to it. 

 Q.  What was the difference between today and the last few days? 
 GAURAV GHEI:  I hit the ball a little better today but I just putted really well. I made 23 putts and holed the really crucial ones. Chipped in on eight for birdie. On nine, I hit it about 10 feet short of the green and holed that. It was just the putting today, just putted absolutely fantastic. 

 Q.  Did you set yourself with a goal before starting the final day? 
 GAURAV GHEI:  You obviously go out intending to try your best and then I made a two on the first and through five holes, I'm four under par. I say let's just keep this going as 9 and 11 are birdie holes. You don't try to think about that at that time but when you're four under through five, you're trying to keep it going. The momentum kept building and you're headed to a great round. 

 Q.  7-under through 11, did you start thinking of a really low round? 
 GAURAV GHEI:  With 14 coming up, are you kidding? Just want to get past that hole. I did par the 14, hit a six iron to 10 feet. I was really lucky as I had perfect yardage on that hole for all four days and hit a smooth six iron every day to the middle of the green. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT