NHL ENTRY DRAFT
June 21, 1997
Jeff Farkas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
I didn't hear anything from the leagues.  It was quite a shock to me. 
 
Yeah, it is nice.  Only about an hour away from home, so it will be nice. 
 
Not really.  I mean, whatever happens, happens.  Right now I have a chance to play and that is the way I looked at it coming into this. 
 
Next year I will probably be back at BC.  After that, it depends on what they want me to do.  It is totally up to them. 
 
That was something I needed to develop, my upper body strength and at the time I wasn't ready to make the jump to a major junior, and I wasn't ready to leave home either. 
 
Not really.  I didn't think they would pick me in the first place.  They haven't been a team that  picked local kids.  So, I really didn't have my hopes up high for them.  I talked to them.  But, I mean, it was more so in an interview just to, you know, just to have an interview, I think, because I didn't feel that something that they really wanted me. 
 
Being from Buffalo you pretty much -- I am only an hour away.  I used to go to Leafs games all the time.  You pick up Canadian stations, and so I did hear everything that went on and it was a tough year for the organization. 
 
I believe they do.  I guess it doesn't really matter how big you are.  If you can skate, you are going to be successful.  It is unfortunate that I dropped so far in the draft, but it is something, it happens, and three years from now when, hopefully, I get up to 190, teams will regret that they passed me up. 
 
I am a pretty quick forward, can see the ice well, score some big goals when crunch time is on, and I am a pretty good defensive player also. 
 
I don't mind it.  I mean, I am a player that will go in the corner and mix it up.  And if I have to,  but if I don't have to, I will just do -- it all depends on a game.  I mean, I like to hit, throw the body, and even though I am so small, people knock me, but I won't back down from anyone. 
 
Right after they drafted me I met with them and he is a real nice man. 
 
I think that was one reason.  But, you know, who knows why people passed me up, and it happens.  That could be one factor that happened, and if that is the case that is too bad. 
 
No, I just -- I have always been, you know, a smaller person.  Growing up, it has always been the thing with me, I have got to put weight on, got to put weight up.  Some day it will come and it will be good. 
 
I have played hockey for one year.  I will be a sophomore next year.  I came to BC at 160.  I put on 19 pounds to today. 
 
I used to come down when they played the Red Wings often.  Also sometimes when they played the Sabres. I usually went to a Leafs game twice a year at least 
  
It is an option, but I don't think it, you know, is a very a good option just for the fact that, you know, I will be 20 years old, have to jump in a League where, you know, the majority of the kids are 15, 16, 17, and really won't do me any good being a 20-year-old playing in a League for one year and going for whatever. 
 
I am a sociology major. 
 
My dad owns a hockey store in Buffalo and my mom is a nurse.  Tom and Laurie. 
 
I turn 20 in January. 
 
He did play some hockey growing up. Played most of his hockey in Canada.  Just one day some guy approach him, asked him if he wanted to run a hockey shop.  I believe it was like 19 years ago.  And, it has been going on ever since.  My dad is from Buffalo, but he went to play juniors in Canada. 
 
My dad was in a farm team.  I don't think he ever played major junior.  He was in Hamilton, played most of it in Hamilton. 
 
It is pretty exciting to be the first pick by the League.  So, I don't think there is any added pressure.  When I get there, you know, I just want a chance to play and that is all I am hoping for. 
 
I think I have at least one more year in college to improve on my strength.  When my weight gets up to 190 or 195, I think it is a viable option for me to go and play. 
 
It is pretty exciting.  There is a chance for me to come in and play right away.  That is pretty exciting. 
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT