ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 19, 2018
Mark Richt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MARK RICHT: We as usual finished practice already.  We are a morning practice team, and we had good effort.  It's been smoking hot here the last two days, and it's going to be smoking hot on Saturday, too.  We've got to get used to it as much as FIU does.  We're about eight miles apart, so we're both dealing with the same thing, and also using that to our advantage against opponents from up north.  But we're both down here, and we're both going to be ready to go for a really good battle.
Q. Just talk about playing against FIU.  You guys are eight miles apart.  Talk about this City of Miami rivalry if you want to call it that.
MARK RICHT: Yeah, there will be a bunch of guys that are playing for pride, and they'll know the guys that they are playing against.  It may be they played with them in a little league park or against them in a little league park or played on the same high school team or played against each other in high school, whatever it may be.  There's probably camps they attended, all kinds of 7-on-7 camps they probably all attended together on the same team or going against them.  Everyone is going to know each other.  I think everybody's parents are going to know each other, too.  Everybody kind of grows up in the same area around the sport of football down here, and it's a big deal.  So there will be a lot of -- big point of pride this weekend.
Q. How much game time do you see Perry, Weldon, and Williams getting this weekend if you guys play to your potential?
MARK RICHT: I don't really want to answer that question because I don't really think that way.  I think about trying to do what we've got to do to win the game and playing the very best player that gives us the best shot at winning.  I don't start predicting things like that.
Q. This week the ACC and the College Football Playoff foundation are celebrating Extra Yard For Teachers.  I wonder if you could tell us what role teachers played in your life.
MARK RICHT: Well, I can tell you my two favorite teachers in elementary school.  One was Ms. Helmer, my third grade teacher, and I loved her because she thought I was smart and actually thought I might jump a grade as a kid.  My mom didn't let me.  But then Bill Millholm was the elementary PE teacher, physical education, and that guy -- I loved him because he loved sports, and he loved to teach fundamentals of every sport we played.  There's a lot of times that the PE teacher might roll a ball out there and say, hey, go shoot some baskets or have fun trying to learn how to play volleyball, but he would teach technique of every sport, teach strategy of every sport, teach the rules of every sport, and I think that's a big reason why I love sports.
Q. What do you have to prepare for FIU when you're facing a Butch Davis-coached team?
MARK RICHT: He's always been a great defensive coach his whole career, and of course their offense has scored a bunch of points.  But just great fundamental tacklers, great fundamentals at playing coverage and playing -- defeating blocks, things of that nature, just sound schemes, playing hard and great fundamentals.  There's no secret to the success that he's had over the years in the way they play defense.  So those are the things.  We've just got to execute well, and they'll be trying to do the same.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT