ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 14, 2018
Mark Richt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: We're joined by Miami head coach Mark Richt.
COACH RICHT: We have just finished practice a little bit ago, our Wednesday practice.  I thought the guys did a really good job.  Very competitive.  We do a lot of things against each other.  Still stay sharp throughout the week and just highly spirited, highly competitive day.  So I was really pleased with that.
Q. As one of the coaches in college football who is at your alma mater where you played, I was curious, as you looked at the decision to go there, as the Miami job came open and you became available, how important was your history at the school when it came to making that decision?
COACH RICHT: Well, the biggest reason why I went to Miami was I know you can win at Miami.  And if you've ever been a head coach, you know how hard it is to win, period.  And you want to go to a place that has the history and tradition of winning and has the resources, whether it's the human resources of the recruiting base or the resources as far as facilities and all those types of things.
So you want to go where you can win.  And I knew you could do that at Miami.  And the fact that it was my school, obviously made it easier.  And also, you know, after living it out for a little while, those first year or two, the fact that it was my school became even more important than it was maybe on the front end of the decision.
So you want to go where you can win for sure.  And then if it happens to be your alma mater, that's a bonus, and that's kind of how it's been.
Q. Since you have been there, have there been any unique advantages or unique challenges given that tie that maybe you didn't have at Georgia?
COACH RICHT: Not really.  I mean, one of the things that was really special was when we were putting this indoor facility together and raising money for it.  My feeling has always been not to necessarily ask the former players to donate so much.  I always feel like they've kind of already done their part, just with their blood and sweat and tears, so to speak, on the field.
And I don't want them to feel like we're going to be trying to squeeze something out of them in that regard.  But some of the other alumni didn't feel that way, some of the other football alumni didn't feel that way.  They were like, hey, I think these guys would enjoy getting a chance to help and being a part of it.
And so I gave personally a million dollars to the project.  And then some of the other guys decided, hey, let's at least match what Coach has done with everybody else.  And they got well over the $2 million mark as far as former players giving to the project.
So things like that are awesome.  And we also have former players come back to be honorary captains and things of that nature.  And to meet a lot of the greats that maybe I didn't play with, but also have some of the greats that I did play with come back and get to reunite and all that kind of thing has been pretty special.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT