ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 9, 2016
Mark Richt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








COACH RICHT: We finished practice just a little bit ago.  I was pretty excited about the effort that was given today, especially when we went against our offense versus defensive phases that we do.  The competition level was great.  The execution was good by the number one offense and the number one defense.  You walk off the field with a good feeling.
We really had that same type of day last Wednesday.  We're working on our third-and-medium, third-and-long, high red zone, low red zone stuff against each other.  It really was good to see those guys execute the way they did.
THE MODERATOR: Questions for Coach Richt.
Q. Sorry to bring this up again, but seems like you've been mentioned with Virginia a number of times over the years.  Last year, I think you'd already accepted the Miami job when it was reported that you were eating lunch in Charlottesville.  Were you aware of that last year?  Do you get a laugh out of something like that?
COACH RICHT: Well, it was funny.  After I left Georgia, within about 24 hours, there was a lot of contact by a lot of people, universities, just to at least gauge some kind of interest in me and see if I had interest in them.
I was actually going to take some trips to visit some places other than Miami.  When I got down to it, I had a heart-to-heart with my wife.  We basically said, this Miami opportunity, being my alma mater, being a team that has a chance to do great things, you knew it wasn't going to be open next year, so I said, I'm going to start there, and if I like what I hear, then we'll jump on it.
As it turned out, we really liked what was happening.  That's why we just ended up kind of exclusively talking to Miami once that thing happened.
There were some thoughts about other schools.  Virginia, you know, I actually interviewed for that job 15 or 16 years ago, whatever it was.  Just a beautiful place, a beautiful school.  It was very interesting.  If Miami wasn't there, it would have been interesting to us as well.
Q. You never heard the rumor about you being in Charlottesville eating lunch?
COACH RICHT: No.  Must have been somebody else who doesn't look very good eating lunch that day.  I don't know.
Q. When you look back at the earlier interest in Virginia, had the Georgia job not come open at the same time, do you think you would have ended up at Virginia?
COACH RICHT: Me and my wife, we were very impressed.  We were very impressed.  I can't say for sure what would have happened.  I don't even remember for sure if I was even offered the job.  I was interviewed for the job.  My brain doesn't remember for sure if I was even offered the opportunity.
But right around that time is when Georgia came up, too.  That worked out for us.
Q. Have you ever coached in Charlottesville?
COACH RICHT: Oh, yeah.  I was at Florida State for 15 years.  I guess, I don't know, the first eight years we were in the league, the last eight years we were in the ACC, I don't know if it was that many.  I was there at Florida State when Florida State first joined the ACC.  Played there a few times, three or four times, anyway.
Q. What are your impressions of the Virginia team this year?  Seems like they've been in some tight games with some really good teams but they're 2-7 overall.
COACH RICHT: They're a lot like us in that they're battling.  They're playing, like you say, in a lot of tight ballgames.  Just a play or two away from more victories.  We feel the same way about our group.
The first season is always one of change, one of everybody learning each other and all that kind of thing.  There's a lot of really good teams that don't have a winning record around the country.  I'm not picking on anybody, but you look at Ole Miss, it's one of the best teams in the country, in my opinion, but I think they have a losing record.  Michigan State historically has been a great team.  They're struggling.  Notre Dame.  If we didn't win this last one, we'd be in the same boat, not having a winning record at this point.
There's a lot of really good ball clubs that haven't come out on top enough to say that you're ahead in the win column.  But we have a lot of respect for Virginia, I can tell you that.
Q. Brad Kaaya had one of the kinds of games that a lot of people have looked for from him.  Talk a little bit about his development, where he is at this point.
COACH RICHT: Well, I don't think he's a good quarterback, I think he's a great one.  I think he's very talented.  He's a great leader.  He's a supremely accurate passer.
I think when we do a good job of running the ball, play-action pass, pass protecting, I don't have any doubt in my mind that he can sight up his targets and put it on them.  That's his greatest asset, his ability to think, his ability to throw the ball, deep ball, medium ball, short throws, all of them.  He really can hit them all.  He's a good guy to work with.
Q. A lot of people see the offensive guys making the plays like Kaaya, but don't really get to see a chance to see the people in front of them that are helping make that happen.  Talk a little bit about your offensive line, some of the guys who have done a good job for you.
COACH RICHT: Well, it takes all of them across the board.  Really it takes tight ends and runningbacks to protect as well.
A lot of time, if you protect good, it's all the line.  If you don't have great protection, you think it's all the offensive line.  Quite frankly, your runningback has to block well, your receiver has to run the right routes, your tight end at times has to block.  The quarterback has to go through his progression properly to get the ball out on time, stay in the middle of his pocket.  A lot of things go into this thing.
Most sacks to me in the end are on the quarterback because even if protection breaks down, I think it's his job to get rid of the ball in a safe place and not take the sack.
But they played extremely well this week.  I was really proud of them.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT