ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 24, 2018
Mark Richt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: We are now joined by Miami head coach Mark Richt.   
Coach, please make an opening statement and then we'll take questions.   
MARK RICHT: Playing on Friday night is interesting for us.  I thought that was for high schools, but we are playing on a Friday night.  If it's scheduled, we'll play it.  I'm not a big fan of that.  I think college football should be played on Saturday.   
We'll be ready to go.  Both teams had an open date prior to it.  As far as the prep work, it wasn't problematic.  Going from a Saturday to a Thursday or Saturday to Friday, it makes it tough on your kids.  But having the open date made it where obviously both teams can manage it pretty easily.   
 Q.  Talk about your team this week, preparation for a Friday night game.  How was the bye week?  Do you feel like everybody is all focused and ready to go for the second half?  
MARK RICHT: I think so.  We better be.  We're playing a very talented and very veteran team in Boston College.  They're going to be at home.  They've not lost at home.  They got their Red Bandana night, that is an emotionally charged night.  I hear Doug Flutie is on the way if he's not already in town.   
There will be a lot of things that will get those guys revved up and ready to go.  We'll have to make sure we're ready as well.   
 Q.  You played against Boston College back in the days in the Big East.  Talk about playing Boston College, that rivalry that was big in the Big East.  
MARK RICHT: Well, I think when we played, we were independent.  I'm an old guy.  I don't know if we were playing Boston College on a regular basis.   
I do know that I did watch a game where Flutie had the miracle throw.  When you watch that throw, it's amazing how far that ball went.  It had to go 65, 70 yards in the air.  Of course, it was the winning play of the game.   
But from the point of view of playing Boston College, especially there, this time of the year, we know it will be a little bit chillier than we're used to, that's for sure.   
The thing that you see on this particular team with their roster is the veterans that they have, a lot of fifth-year guys, a lot of fourth-year guys on that team, a lot of returning starters on both sides of the ball.   
It's a group of guys that are very mature physically when it comes to the game of football, and they're playing that way.   
 Q.  Jaquan Johnson and Michael Jackson were named semifinalists.  How is Perry doing in practice?  
MARK RICHT: Jaquan and Michael are deserving of that nomination, getting down to the nitty-gritty there as far as candidates for the Thorpe.  I think they're great players, not good ones.  I think they'll both have tremendous pro careers.   
They've been great leaders for us.  To come back and play their senior year, it's kind of an honor as a coach to have guys come back and do that, when they've got draft grades that are pretty darn good.  We're proud and excited about them coming back.  They both played extremely well.   
N'Kosi, I'll say this, N'Kosi and Malik both have handled the changes very well.  I think it starts out with the type of camaraderie there is in the quarterback room.  I think the guys really do like each other.  I think they care for each other.  I think they care about the team.  They want the team to win.   
Then there's a trust factor with the coaches.  They don't always agree with what we do, but they trust we're trying to do what's best, do what's best for the team.   
So we've always been honest with them, we've always been up front with them.  Because of that, I think Malik handled being moved to second team well.  Now that he's back as a starter, I think he appreciates the position even more.  But he also handled the tough time well.  To transition him back, it was not that hard to do.   
THE MODERATOR: Coach Richt, thank you.   
MARK RICHT: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT