MLB ALL-STAR GAME
July 11, 2016
Robinson Cano
Adam Duvall
Todd Frazier
Carlos Gonzalez
Wil Myers
Karl Ravech
Corey Seager
Giancarlo Stanton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








KARL RAVECH: Thank you and good afternoon everybody.  I am Karl Ravech, delighted to be here once again and thank you for joining us today for the 2016 T-Mobile Home Run Derby press conference.  The 2016 T-Mobile Home Run Derby takes place tonight right here at Petco Park right here in San Diego, and we will broadcast it live on ESPN at 8 o'clock eastern time and 5 o'clock local time.  The Derby once again because it was such a smashing success last year will follow the single elimination bracketed play.  Seeding was based and there is a 1-8 seed was based on home runs hit through July 6.  Each batter gets 4 minutes per round to hit as many home runs as they can and then 30 seconds of bonus time will be earned by hitting two home runs that travel 440 feet.
So let's meet the guys who will be trying to do that.  All the to my right is Mark Trumbo of the Baltimore Orioles.  He will be competing in his second career Home Run Derby.  His opponent in the 8th round will be the 8th seed and that's Corey Seager of the Los Angeles Dodgers.  2011 Home Run Derby champion, Robinson Cano, is back of the Seattle Mariners.  He will be the 4th seed.  His opponent in the opening round will be the 5 seed, Giancarlo Stanton of the Miami Marlins, who is competing for the second time.  If this were a NCAA basketball tournament, you are always wary of the five seed.  Cincinnati's Adam Duvall will square off against Wil Myers of the San Diego Padres, the 6th seed of the competition.  Delighted to have Todd Frazier of the White Sox back appearing in the event for the third consecutive year.  He will face off against Colorado's Carlos Gonzalez who lasted a home run almost 500 feet on Sunday and he is the seventh seed and he takes part in his second career Home Run Derby.  Let's start with the defending champ.  When you win a major your life changes.  How did your life change after you won the Derby?
TODD FRAZIER: It changed a little bit.  I remembering going back home and having no electricity in the house and it was 110 degrees.  This is one thing I remember.  But, no, it was a good experience for me.  The year before I came in second and with the new concept that we have going on here it was different, but in a good way.  I think everybody enjoyed it.  Good drama, and, you know, at the end of the day I think everybody had a good time watching it and hopefully we can put on a display here again tonight.
KARL RAVECH: So your house was unaware that you won, didn't cooperate?
TODD FRAZIER: No.
KARL RAVECH: Wil, you have 19 home runs and 13 of them are at home and people believe the ballpark is going to play a big role.  Tell the people what it is like to hit in Petco Park and what is the secret to your success?
WIL MYERS: For me, it's just a great place to see the ball.  The put up a couple new buildings in the backdrop that I believe helps the ball fly.  So I think tonight is going to be a pretty good show.  I think you're going to see a lot of long home runs.
KARL RAVECH: In the NCAA Tournament, the 5-12 game is always one where they take the 5 seed.  Do you think there is any significance to being a 5 seed in this tournament?
CARLOS GONZALEZ: I think --
KARL RAVECH: No is okay.
CARLOS GONZALEZ: I'm not facing the 12 seed.
KARL RAVECH: There is no 12 seed, that's true.
CARLOS GONZALEZ: I guess flip a coin.
KARL RAVECH: When you decided to come here and we are grateful that you decided to participate what led to that decision?
CARLOS GONZALEZ: I was scheduled to do two previously and I had to pull out a couple days before both of them, so I figured I wanted to regain those opportunities and this was a good one.
Q. Todd, congratulations, welcome back.  What did you learn from last year in the Home Run Derby and the year prior that you may use tonight to hopefully defend your title?
TODD FRAZIER: The year prior it was totally different.  From last year, it's endurance, man.  It's a long ways, especially if you make it to the finals.  I'm the only one back from last year that, you know, got a chance to experience that and from talking to these guys you try to get as much swings as you can, but try and endure it as long as you did.  I think the advantage is going second.  I think that plays a big advantage, knowing how many you need to hit and how fast you really need to go and hopefully the outs are line drives instead of pop flies because that takes 5, 6 or 7 more seconds off your time.
Q. Corey, how does it feel to be a rookie in your first All-Star Game and your first Home Run Derby?
COREY SEAGER: It's fun.  There are some nerves that go into it but trying to soak up as much as I can and enjoy it.
Q. Todd, there are a lot of people who think there is some sort of Home Run Derby curse or jinx.  The fact that you keep coming back year-after-year, does that suggest that you don't believe that exists?
TODD FRAZIER: No, I don't believe it at all.  If anybody sees the way I swing it's pretty much unorthodox, to be honest.  I tell everybody this the last round of BP in a game what is everybody trying to do, basically hit one out of the park.  Things don't change.  You know your swing now if you're a professional.  You've got plenty of time to work it back in and get a good second half and that's basically all I've got to say about that.
KARL RAVECH: Carlos, the difference between hitting bald in Coors and hitting them anywhere else, how do you define that?
CARLOS GONZALEZ: I think the biggest thing is that you play at home -- but breaking balls, they don't break the same.  That's the advantage that we have, compared with when we go on the road.  They're going to be moving, so you have to make adjustments.  But I feel like if you hit the ball hard in any ballpark it's going to go.
KARL RAVECH: Carlos has one of the longest home runs at Petco this year.
Q. Wil, it's the day of the Derby and you're joining Padre names like Garvey, McGriff, Sheffield.  What does that mean to be a name among those and also this is the first time that we have had to ask you about starting and hitting clean up?
WIL MYERS: Just being able to be in the Home Run Derby is a huge honor and I'm excited to represent San Diego here and on the starting lineup, obviously that's a big deal.  I'm very excited about it.  It's something I'm looking forward to and hopefully I can put on a good show for the home crowd.
Q. You are part of the festivities and now Jose Quintana is here and what it likes having a few more White Sox here other than just Chris Sale?  And also talk about Chris Sale being the starting pitching for the American League tomorrow night?
TODD FRAZIER: It was exciting.  When we found out that Q was on the All-Star team.  He was excited.  It was great.  You see the smile on his face.  It was like Christmas morning for him, so he deserves it.  He has been pitching the last three of four years he has been doing a heck of a job and to finally have something to show for it that's awesome for him.  And to see Chris start, I know he's excited.  We were on the plane yesterday talking about it he didn't know definitely if he was and I talked to him this morning and he's excited about it and he will be ready to go for that first inning for his first start.
KARL RAVECH: Adam, it took you a few years to get a position and then you get dealt and all of the sudden you've broken out, you've always had power.  What do you anticipate, look forward to about hitting in a Home Run Derby?
ADAM DUVALL: I like hitting homers, so, I think it will be fun.  It will be fun watching all these guys hit some, too, and just to be a part of it, it's pretty awesome, watching it as a kid and just getting an opportunity.  So I'm excited.
Q. Todd, how hard is it going to be to try to repeat something that very few players have repeated and are you bringing the same pitcher back from last year?
TODD FRAZIER: Yeah, I'm bringing the same guy, my brother is going to throw to me, and it's very hard.  It's a whole new bunch of guys, bunch of power hitters and it's going to be a fun display.  I can't way to see who is going to hit one over the building in left field and where these balls are going to go.  It was fun to watch last year to watch in Cincinnati and the years before, and I love watching it just as much as being involved in it, too.
KARL RAVECH: Robinson, a brother, a father, I remember the joy on your face and his face and the hug and all that.  What led to you coming back?
ROBINSON CANO: I got on the phone with my dad and he was kind of like -- because he was the one, he said we got a chance, and in my mind -- I told him before we came here I said, you know what, let's go there and have fun.  I don't know if I have a chance on my first time, and he said, yeah, you got a chance.  And after I made it to the second round I said, Dad, I'm good.  I made it to the second round!  And then now he said, we winning and he was excited and right now I'm doing it because of my son.  It's the first time I'm going to have him with me here.  He's only 5 years old, so I'm excited and looking forward to having him on the field with me.
Q. Wil and Adam, you think there will be any trash talk between the two of you in your first round?
WIL MYERS: Not on my end.  We're going on out there and have some fun and see what happens.  (Laughter.)
ADAM DUVALL: I don't think I will be trash talking at all.  I just want to have fun like I said, and I think it will be a good experience for all of us.
Q. Wil, I don't want you to give away trade secrets or anything, but do you think you know the secret to hitting balls out of Petco Park?
WIL MYERS: No, I don't think there is a secret to it.  I just think this is a park that I see the ball well at and it's got a great hitters eye and I have just always seen the ball well here.
KARL RAVECH: Mark, no one has asked you a question yet.  What does being the 1 seed mean to you?
MARK TRUMBO: I get to watch Corey go first.  Other than that I'm not sure what that means.  See how it plays out, I guess.
KARL RAVECH: Great first half.
Q. I have a question for all of you, except Frazier who obviously got it last year, this is going to be time based and everyone one of you who are power hitters have long swings.  Are you making any adjustments for tonight?
KARL RAVECH: Who wants to address that?  That's a good question about the time which Todd already addressed.  You have done it before, what do you think the timing is going to be like?
ROBINSON CANO: It's going to be tough because in the past you got a chance to take a pitch and until you got out, you keep going, but now you got a timer and he mentioned before, you hit a fly ball.  It's going to take a couple of seconds.  So it's going to be tough doing something I haven't done in the past.  But the goal is to go out there and have fun and have fun with the guys and guys that you see hitting long balls, like Trumbo and even Corey Seager and the guy to my left who I am going to face tonight (Laughter.)  It's going to be tough, but it's going to be fun.  Let's see what happens.
KARL RAVECH: I never thought you could be penalized for hitting a 500-foot home run, but it does take a long time to get there, doesn't it?
CARLOS GONZALEZ: Yeah, but I got to hit two to get 30 seconds, so...
Q. What do you think of the concept of an all-pitcher Home Run Derby or a pitcher in the Derby?
KARL RAVECH: Go ahead, Frazier, you're the defending champ!
TODD FRAZIER: I don't know.  I know some of those guys can hit home runs in batting practice.
CARLOS GONZALEZ: Let 'em pull something.  Go ahead!
TODD FRAZIER: With the time base, it's like a hitter is going up and pitching one inning you see the guys go on the DL for that kind of stuff.  It's tougher.  We're used to the torque in our bodies.  We're not used to throwing pitches as well.  So I don't know.  I don't think it would be a good idea.
KARL RAVECH: At this time I would to bring up T-Mobile's Senior Vice President of Brand Communications, Peter DeLuca to say a few words.  Peter?
PETER DELUCA: Good afternoon and welcome everyone on behalf of T-Mobile.  The Home Run Derby is one of the most anticipated parts of All-Star week, and we could not be more excited to be here with T-Mobile tonight.  As the uncarrier, we have been changing the game of wireless for the last three years and we're here to bring that same game-changing spirit to the Home Run Derby.  We have created tons of new experiences for the fans.  The first thing we did was create a virtual reality game which fans are able to step into the batter's box at Petco Park and swing for the fences.  We are doing it both here is San Diego and at 2,200 of our stores across the country right now.
We also will be having T-Mobile social media lounges on the field tonight, so fans across the country get behind the scenes action from the players to the bracket challenges that we put in place which allows folks to pick their champs and get a chance to go to the World Series.
Lastly, the game-changing of the entire game with just one swing.  Tonight every home run will raise money to support the next generation of future game-changers.  I can't wait to get over to Petco Park and see how many home runs we're going to get tonight.  Thank you very much.
KARL RAVECH: Along the lines of the money that Peter and T-Mobile will be donating the Foundation will make a donation for every home run hit this evening including 1,000 for every home run hit with a regular ball and 2,000 for every home run hit with a magenta ball which will be used during the bonus round.
At the start of the Derby every participant will receive $10,000 from the jackpot for their local chapter of the Boys & Girls Club and a local youth baseball initiative of their choosing.  The rest of the charity pool will be donated to the Boys & Girls Club in local youth baseball initiatives chosen by the winner.
T-Mobile also is presenting the Home Run Derby Bracket Challenges on MLB.com.  Fans can enter the free online game and predict winners of each of the 2016 T-Mobile Home Run Derby match-ups.  Grand prize winner with a perfect bracket will win a trip to the 2016 World Series game courtesy of T-Mobile.  For rules and regulations visit mlb.com/bracketchallenge.
Once again, everybody, 2016 T-Mobile Home Run Derby airs tonight at 8 and 5 local time on ESPN.  Thank you to everyone for coming today and particularly to our eight competitors.  This will undoubtedly be one of the great nights of the summer.  It always is, and thank you very much for being with us.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT