MLB WORLD SERIES: PADRES v YANKEES
October 21, 1998
Dave Stewart
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Dave, two questions. First, watching the way this series has progressed, do you feel
like pulling that cap down and helping them out, going on the mound, yourself?

DAVE STEWART: No, maybe a little transfusion, but, I don't want to do it myself. The
best thing about my job is, one, when you can see the successes of the pitchers and the
things you've tried to put in them mentally and physically, and watch those things work,
but at the same time when you've worked with these guys through the year, their failures
hurt just as bad. But believe me, when these guys are out there pitching, I'm pitching,
too.

Q. You help get the most out of this staff, take a look at Andy Ashby, career high in
wins in the regular season. What did you or can you say to him to help him forget about
that mess the other night and get ready for tomorrow night, should there be tomorrow
night?

DAVE STEWART: All I can think about is my personal experiences with bad performances.
And the bottom line is you want to forget them anyway. So when you talk to your pitchers
you basically want them to always remember that even if there were some positive things
that took place out there, and try to focus on those things, but expand it next time out
for 6 or 7 innings.

Q. Stu, in your career, I'm sure that you've had times where you said, "I'd like
to have that pitch back," was there a move made where you are right now that you
would like to reconsider?

DAVE STEWART: Yeah, at this time coming to the World Series. No, I'm just playing with
you. You know, at some point you have to look at the baseball club that you're playing
against, and you honestly evaluate their performance. And the Yankees have been, to this
point, worthy of being three games up on us. They played very well. Everything that we've
done they found a way to do better. I know it's been questioned, did we leave Ash in too
long, did we take Brownie out too soon, should we have pitched Trevor last night, should
we have pitched him in the 8th inning. There are going to be so many questions about the
things that you do, but we're sitting down and watching how the game is going, and we're
thinking about all the things that have taken place, not just in this series, but through
the season, whether the guys down in the bullpen are rested enough, do they have enough to
get through this, we can only go by what our gut tells us to do, and unless you're sitting
there, you just don't know what you would do. And fortunately for us, we're in the
opportunity to make those moves, and I can't think of one, to date, that I would take
back, not one.

Q. Some of the pitchers on the staff; Ashby, Miceli, Wall, maybe Hoffman, seem to have
lost a little from what they had early in the year. I know all four of those guys have
pitched almost career high in innings. Do you think the season-long fatigue, they're
starting to hit a wall now?

DAVE STEWART: I think there could possibly be. I know that Trevor's velocity was down
quite a bit last night. I don't know, maybe we need to see Lee Majors or something. But
we're struggling a little bit. And how we get to that next step, I'm assuming that we're
going to have a pretty good shot at today's ballgame, but we still have tomorrow, and
we're going to need our bullpen. I don't know that there are anymore words that can be
said to get two or three more performances out of the guys down there, but obviously we
definitely need it, and this is really not the time for your tanks to run low. But I
really don't have an explanation for why we're not being successful, other than the fact
that probably there is some fatigue there, but as professionals we've still got more work
to do.

Q. Given perhaps the lack of success so far in bringing Trevor Hoffman in the 8th, is
the situation the same tonight, can we expect to see him again if the situation is the
same as last night.

DAVE STEWART: Would we use him in the 8th?

Q. Yes.

DAVE STEWART: I don't know, let's wait and see. I really don't know. Like I said, it's
playing it by gut. I think in talking with Bochy earlier today, if we get that late, I
mean Joey Hamilton is still available, and probably the freshest arm down there. Trevor
through a ton of pitches last night. So I assume we're going to try to keep him to one,
one and a third, and not two full innings. We're going to take what Brownie gives us, and
probably try to fill the gaps, in a winning situation probably with Joey Hamilton.

Q. Back to the question about late-season fatigue, you went to the postseason a lot at
times, were there times when you had kind of hit that wall, and what did you do to
overcome it, if you did?

DAVE STEWART: I always, not even during the year, I tried to never give into tired,
mentally tired was not an option for me. My responsibility was to go out and pitch, and be
a No. 1 starter or, in my case, it was a No. 1 starter. And there comes a lot of
responsibility with that. The responsibility of a No. 1 starter is to make sure that you
do what it takes for your club to win on that given day. So there's no time for tired,
there's no time for fatigue. The only thing that matters is giving your team a chance to
get an opportunity to play the next day. That's how I went about my best. Tired was never
an option to me. I never thought about tired. I always felt once you gave into it you
became that. So I never thought about being tired, I only thought about what I could do to
make my club a winner.

Q. Stu, have you made any decision, you personally for next year, and if not, what your
timetable might be on staying or going?

DAVE STEWART: That will be determined by how many calls I get from my services past
here, and what the calls are about. I think I made it real clear that there are only three
jobs that I would leave this situation for, which are farm director or the assistant GM,
or GM position, if nobody has called about those positions, I'm very happy with the San
Diego Padres, I have a good working relationship as well as a personal relationship with
Kevin Towers. My home is here, and I'm a slave to my home. I have no reason to leave here
unless there is a better opportunity some place else, and so I guess in answer to your
question, I don't know that anybody's called yet. And if nobody has called, then I I'll
figure out -- the only other thing I'll figure out is if I want to coach again. I'll
figure that out once this is done.

Q. From your perspective as an ace, as a big-game-playoff pitcher, what is it like for
these guys to have been so successful and beat teams like the Astros and Braves, and come
into the locker rooms with their heads hanging low, after three straight losses in the
World Series, what is going through their minds?

DAVE STEWART: I think we're definitely in a situation now that we have not been in
through the course of the year. And I think for a lot of them there is disbelief, and it
should be. We haven't experienced this. But at the same time I think in my mind being
totally on the outside looking in, we're right now in as big a media attention as we've
ever had. New York is an experience for anybody that has never been there and we haven't
been in a World Series since 1984. So with the disappointment of not pitching the way that
we're capable, and probably having problems harnessing the emotions when we're out trying
to perform our jobs, we become overall disappointed and probably depressed about the
situation that we're in. And we're digging a bigger hole. And a lot of that is my fault,
because from the get the responsibility of our ballclub on our pitching staff, and I think
a lot of our guys have taken it personally, and feel disappointed that we haven't been
able to stand up to this point.

Q. Might starting in San Diego rather than New York, say it was the National League's
turn make a difference?

DAVE STEWART: Who knows? We can never tell. Like I said, with no disrespect to the
Yankees, we were a pretty good ballclub at home, so it may have made a difference. But
respect to the Yankees, it may not have.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT