NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: PADRES v BRAVES
October 14, 1998
Dave Stewart
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Dave, can you give us a perspective of what a player is thinking about before a game
like this, and before Game 7; should it go that far?

DAVE STEWART: Can't give you a perspective of a player. I can give you a perspective of
a pitcher. If I'm pitching this ballgame today, my frame of mind is basically just try to
keep things simple. Go at it, one hitter at a time, one pitch at a time. And just hope
that I'm out there long enough to give my team a chance to score a run before they do.
That's what the frame of mind of the pitching should be. As a player, obviously I couldn't
tell you what Tony Gwynn is thinking or Greg Vaughn. I only know the pitching part of the
game.

Q. Is this the type of situation that I know you worked for and want to get into. Is it
fun or just too stressful for you to even think of it on that level?

DAVE STEWART: I'm having fun, to be honest. From this side, it's a lot easier to have
fun than it was as a player. As a player it was stressful. There are a lot of things that
go through your mind, a lot of things that you're thinking about. From a coaching point,
you can sit back and appreciate the intensity of both sides. You can appreciate the ups
and the downs, the good moments and the bad moments of what's going on in this series. And
as I said before, this is one of the better League Championship Series I've ever seen or
been involved in.

Q. Having worked with Kevin Brown all season, are you still stunned by what happened in
Game 5?

DAVE STEWART: Well, by being around baseball for as long as I have, I fully understand
that anything can happen in this game. The best have faced what Kevin Brown faced in his
ballgame; and the worst, they face it all the time. So it's a beautiful game, baseball,
because the underdog always has a chance.

Q. Dave, how did Kevin Towers coax you into taking this job this year?

DAVE STEWART: Coax me? I'm not really sure, you know, we were on our way to Mexico to
visit with a team that we were trying to get an affiliation with, Yucatan, and the subject
came up about possibly coaching a team. And Kevin is very convincing when he talks to you.
And he told me that I was the guy to do this job. I was the guy to make a difference. He
said all the right things. The important thing for me was to remain in some capacity in
the office. And I think the clincher for me was by him allowing me to be in the office
three or four times a week, still keeping my assistant's title, telling me I'm still going
to be a part of the general manager's meetings and all of the things important to me and
keeping the same duties that I had in the office. And for me, that was the clincher, not
just becoming a pitching coach, but still being able to stay in the office, too.

Q. What specifically do you think you'll be doing this winter, and what signings did
you have an impact on with your input?

DAVE STEWART: Well, a couple of years ago I signed Carlos Hernandez. This year we had
Carlos Reyes earlier this year. We talked about Greg Myers. I can't even think of some of
the smaller deals that we did, that I was a part of. And this winter we got a lot of work
to do with Mexico and the Dominican Republic, which are my primary responsibilities. We'll
get together with the Dominican Republic with the hurricane. There's been trouble there
that we have to straighten out, and get to signing players again.

Q. Have you seen Kevin Brown have that much trouble with his control?

DAVE STEWART: I didn't think his control was bad, at all. When I looked at the at-bats
and some of the pitches that were thrown, 0-2 especially was very, very close to his area;
pitches that could have gone either way. I took my cap off to the Atlanta Brave club for
focusing on making Kevin stay in an area. They had very, very good at-bats against him.
And they created a positive situation for themselves. But Kevin, I didn't think his
control was off at all. 

Q. I'm referring to the number of 3-2 counts he had. He had a mess of them.

DAVE STEWART: They had a lot of foul balls that created a 3-2 situation. He threw a lot
of strikes, and they worked him well enough to bring the count from 0-2 to 3-2 in some
cases. In most cases he was 0-2 and the count ended up 3-2, because they made him work at
throwing pitches. When you do that, a lot of times you're going to put yourself in a
situation where you can put the wood on the ball.

Q. Why is this one of the better League Championship Series you've seen?

DAVE STEWART: Well, I think primarily because, one, we came into the series with nobody
really giving us much of a chance to win. We jumped out 3-0. In most cases when a club is
3-0, you can probably finish it within three games. Obviously, we haven't done that, which
now you look at the Atlanta Braves, and you have to respect the fact that they're a club
that has not died. They're a club that's still trying, and they're giving it their best
shot. It's a series that early was pretty much dominated by pitching, at least in the
three games that we won. All three games were well-pitched ballgames by both sides. To the
Atlanta Braves credit, late in the game they've been able to take advantage of our
mistakes and open games you up. And they've put themselves back into it. It's been like
watching Ping-Pong: One time this side is good, and then this side. It's been exciting,
every aspect of the game. You're seeing a lot of managerial moves, you're seeing baseball
like it's supposed to be played. A lot of people watch baseball and they think there's no
strategy to the game. They think it's guys running around the bases and if you hit a ball
and the play is close, you slide. But there's a lot of things involved in winning games
and losing games, and I think you've seen every aspect of it now.

Q. Dave, the shock factor, how does Tucker's home run rate with Gibson's?

DAVE STEWART: Well, Gibson's was -- when he hit his, the wind was out of our sails.
Tucker's, I don't know that there was that much impact, because that situation we're up
three games to two. That brought them back to their second win. And we only need one win
to finish this; whereas Gibson's, that was right off the bat. That home run decided the
first game of the series. They beat, at that time, the best reliever in baseball and they
beat also what was considered the best team in baseball at that time on the first game,
with a club that was pretty badly beaten up. The Dodgers were a club that was basically --
they were playing on guts. So Tucker's home run is a heroic home run, but not the same
impact as Gibson's.

Q. Can you talk about the psychology of pitching on three days rest, which Sterling
Hitchcock will be doing today, and to some extent Kevin Brown will be doing tomorrow, if
he has to?

DAVE STEWART: Well, I think, like I said, it's just basically -- on three days rest,
you have a tendency to do a lot of things that you don't normally do on the fifth day.
One, your stuff is not going to be as good. When I say "stuff", I mean
velocity-wise, you're not going to be as good. A lot of guys have a tendency to try to
overthrow, to try to gain the velocity. From my point of view, on three days rest,
movement is better. And you want to try to take advantage of that, get the ball in your
location and try to let the ball do what it's going to do. When you start trying to force
the ball, you lose movement, plus you don't have as much velocity, and those are days when
you're not going to have a well-pitched game. The best thing to do in a short rest start
is to try to stay within yourself. Don't try to do too much.

Q. Whose arm recovers better on that short rest, Hitchcock or Brown?

DAVE STEWART: Well, I think Brown, that is the guy whose arm recovers best. He's got a
very resilient arm. He's got one of the better arms I've seen in this game, as far as
recovery time, as far as arm strength, as far as everything. He recovers very well.

Q. You say "one of the better"; what guys would compare to that as far as
bouncing back, pitching now or that pitched when you were pitching?

DAVE STEWART: Gene Nelson, but he was a reliever. All of the guys I can think of, they
are relievers, I've never seen a starter's arm recover as well as his does, and come back
with the stuff he has. Gene Nelson, Carlos Reyes has a rubber arm, Duane Ward (ph) at one
time, but like I said, they're all relievers.

Q. In all your postseason series as a pitcher, were you ever available in relief like
Brown was the other night?

DAVE STEWART: Always available in relief. Obviously, they never asked us to, but I was
always knocking at the door, kind of like a vulture: "Hey, I'm ready." But he
never used us -- in this case, Tony never used us, and in the Toronto series, Cito never
used us.

Q. You never got close?

DAVE STEWART: In the situation with Oakland, we either won it or we lost it. In two
cases we lost it -- in one case we lost it, we were 4-0 Cincinnati, and the Dodgers beat
us. And we ran away with San Francisco; none of those were close. And the Toronto, we went
6 games, but that pretty much, we were -- whatever we were. And what the Dodgers -- with
the Dodgers, I was in relief.

Q. You talked before the series about not wanting to throw Kevin on three days rest, as
many times in a row as you would have if you started him in Game 1. If you go to Game 7,
he's pitching three times in 8 days, and 6 out of 7 appearances on three days rest. What
are the concerns on that situation?

DAVE STEWART: His last outing was 41 pitches, which is -- I can only go by his work
habits since he's been here, that's not a lot of pitches for Kevin. So to me, that's real
similar to bullpen work. Now, this is a guy that works two days in between starts, and he
throws about half an hour to 40 minutes in between starts. I'd say all out, two days ago
in a row. So I believe his bullpen works two days are much, much tougher than a 40-pitch
outing in a game. So I don't really count that outing as anything more than bullpen work.
So when you say he's going to be working, it was too quick for me. But whatever you said,
I think that if anything, he's getting an extra day's rest, and he'll be pitching on the
6th day, is the way I'm looking at it.

Q. Had he thrown one of the those side days before the relief appearance?

DAVE STEWART: Had not picked up a ball, no. Other than playing catch in the outfield,
he hadn't picked up a ball. His first time throwing off the mound was in that game.

Q. How unusual is it for a guy to throw on the side two days in a row like that, hard,
between starts?

DAVE STEWART: Well, when Leo does that with his guys, I don't think that they have two
hard days, though. I think one is a get-loose day and one is a workday, but not a real
strenuous work. I have never seen anybody throw two all out days in the bullpen in between
starts, like Kevin does. For me it's like throwing -- you start your game, then you have
your bullpen day. To me it's a hard bullpen, that's like a game to me, like two days of
actual games to me. And I've never seen anybody do that.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT