DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 3, 2002
Santiago Luna
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Quite a difference in your two halves today?
SANTIAGO LUNA: Yes, well they were quite different actually with the wind although I made a few chip and putts on the inward half to save par. It is very difficult this tournament because the courses are very different but this is a good test. I practiced one day here and I played the Open here one time so I know this course, not very well, but everything is easy when you hit the ball well as I did for the most part today, there was only one or two bad shots and I made a lot of putts.

Q. Tour School last year but you are safe this year?
SANTIAGO LUNA: I am really happy this year because last year was really hard. It is hard to say what went wrong last year, maybe it is just golf. I didn't really do anything especially different, I just didn't play very well and everything is very tight on the Order of Merit.

Q. It must have been pleasing to go there and get your card back?
SANTIAGO LUNA: Yes but I wouldn't have really minded to be honest. I have had 16 years on The European Tour and I was really happy but if I stopped it wouldn't have been a disaster and I think the fact that I was relaxed about the whole thing and even tried to enjoy the Tour School was why I came through it.

Q. This year is a lot better?
SANTIAGO LUNA: You cannot really compare this year to last year. This year I have played about 18 tournaments and only missed two cuts so I am really happy. You never know what is going to happen golf and I would never want to know what is going to happen. You should never try to understand golf because it is such a difficult game to understand.

Q. Tied fifth in Madeira this year is your best?
SANTIAGO LUNA: Yes, that has been my best but I had a good tournament in the Deutsche Bank where I finished 12th, I made the cut at the K Club and finished in the top 30 where a lot of my finishes have been. But it is more difficult every year, more young guys come in who don't seem to have problems traveling a lot. But we are like old cars, you have to be careful with us, sometimes we go well, sometimes we break down.  The old car is going to finish this year very happy and very ready for next year.






End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT