BREEDERS' CUP WORLD THOROUGHBRED CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 5, 2011
M.V. Magnier
Ryan Moore
Aidan P. O'Brien
Derrick Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: We're now joined by the winning connections of Wrote. From left to right, Derrick Smith, M.V. Magnier, trainer Aidan O'Brien, and rider Ryan Moore. Congratulations, gentlemen. 
 Ryan, I'll start with you, since you were the one who was out there. Tell us about the journey and also your take on the condition of the ground today. 
 RYAN MOORE: It was a very easy run round. It went smoothly. Ground felt good. He moved well and the horse quickened up very well. 
 THE MODERATOR: This is Breeders' Cup win number three for Ryan Moore. He won his first two on board Conduit in 2008 and 2009. 
 It's Breeders' Cup win number five for Aidan O'Brien. Aidan, congratulations. I'm sure any Breeders' Cup victory is sweet, but I imagine today's may be a tad sweeter just because of the connection with High Chaparral as the sire and, of course, doing it for Derrick Smith and the gang there at Coolmore. 
 AIDAN O'BRIEN: Absolutely. These races are difficult to win. Ryan gave him a super ride, and it was brilliant. 
 THE MODERATOR: Just notice he was third in his prep prior to this event. Was that a troubled trip for him? Did he not get an opportunity to do his best running that day? 
 AIDAN O'BRIEN: I think he just got beat first time when he won his maiden second time, and then he won a race in Galway the next time. We always liked him after that. He went to New Americas for his first run in the group race and just got a little bit unbalanced coming down the hill the first time. It can happen sometimes in New Americas. 
 After that, he had a little bit of a temperature for a while, so he had to have a break. This was his first one back. He'd been working very well, and Joe's been really happy with him in his work. 
 THE MODERATOR: Derrick and M.V., such strong support of the Breeders' Cup over the years. Can you comment on having High Chaparral? We know so you think is running later. That could be interesting. Could you talk about winning a Breeders' Cup race sired by one of your own stallions? 
 M.V. MAGNIER: It's where everybody wants to be. We're just very lucky to have people like Ryan and Aidan and people around us that have horses that come here. It's where Derrick wants to be. It's where everybody wants to be. Breeders' Cup is important to everybody, and it's a privilege to win a race like this. 
 THE MODERATOR: Derrick, the name Derrick Smith is often seen right alongside in one order or another with John Magnier and Michael Tabor. Can you talk about not just your success over the years but obviously a very strong relationship, like in some respects, The Three Musketeers. The three of you owning together and winning together. 
 DERRICK SMITH: I don't know which one is d'Artagnan anyway. The three of us have been friends for a long time, have the horses together. When you win, it's great to have people to share it with. And it's also great to have them around when it doesn't go so well. Yes, it's a great relationship we have. We're just lucky to be here and lucky to have such good horses. 
 THE MODERATOR: We'll have questions down here.

 Q. This question is for jockey Ryan Moore. You were sidelined for about eight weeks. You perhaps came back sooner than you would have wanted. This is your third Breeders' Cup win. How satisfying is this? I know you are going to Hong Kong to ride in some of the big races. But mentally, how strong you are and how satisfying is this win? 
 RYAN MOORE: It's always nice to get a win at a Breeders' Cup. We're going to try to get a little bit more before the day's out.

 Q. I'd like to ask either Mr. Smith or Mr. Magnier. You also had a host in finale who was perhaps the favorite coming into this race. Was there any hesitation on entering Wrote based on the fact that finale was running? 
 MR. MAGNIER: Not at all. Aidan was very confident with the horse and Todd was very confident with the horse. As I said earlier, it's where we want to have horses running. Couldn't have enough horses running here.

 Q. I have a question. This horse was bred by Speers Bloodstock. Who is Speers, and how did you get the horse? 
 MR. MAGNIER: A fellow called Rob Speers, who's an Englishman, very nice fellow. Rob said we have to have this horse. Luckily, we ended up buying him thanks to Rob and Eddie and Paul and the lot. So just lucky.

 Q. Mr. O'Brien, you began at Rose Common, went to Cork, Galway, New Market. At what point did the Breeders' Cup become a definite target? Finally, one quick question. Now I have both you and Ryan in the same platform. There is a lot of talk about Ryan leaving, and Michael Stoute riding for you next year. Give us a comment. 
 AIDAN O'BRIEN: I suppose to answer the first question first. When he ran in New Market, he finished third. Derrick had said to me, straight after New Market or a few days after, that he looked a very good horse and thought that this race might suit him. That's what put it into our head then to come here really. 
 And then the second question about Ryan, obviously, we were delighted to use Ryan all of the time, whenever he was available, and obviously he was available plenty in the spring. He had had a setup for a while. Now he's available again, and obviously it's the same way. 
 I suppose looking to the future, like with us every year, everybody and every team is that question to look and decide for the following year at the end of every year. Obviously, the jockey arrangements for last year were the way we are this year, and obviously, like always, it would be a meeting. Everybody would have a meeting at the end of the year, and then everything would be decided for the following year. 
 We were delighted with this year, and we're delighted with everybody that rode for us. Look forward to next year.

 Q. What are your plans for the next year? Are we going to see another mile, and are you going to bring him back to America for anything other than the Breeders' Cup? 
 AIDAN O'BRIEN: Obviously, we'll talk with Derrick and John and Michael and us all, we'll discuss, and then the plan will be made. Ryan said to Derrick thereafter that he hoped he would stay further. I imagine that he could be horse trained for the tasks next year.

 Q. I think this is your first Grade 1 Breeders' Cup winner since High Chaparral. You had a frustrating day yesterday. Is this a big relief to get a win on the board? 
 AIDAN O'BRIEN: It is obviously. Like obviously the lads put so much into this year in, year out, and obviously we feel very privileged to be part of the team. But obviously, we feel like, when they put so much of everything into it, we feel like we have to get results, which is the reality. 
 It's great when it does happen, but it's very hard at championship races like this, they're very competitive. Sometimes it works, and sometimes it doesn't. All we can do is our best. But when it does work and it does happen, it's a real thrill for everybody. We all feel very privileged. 
 THE MODERATOR: Very well. Derrick Smith, M.V. Magnier, Aidan O'Brien, and Ryan Moore, congratulations on a terrific win with Wrote on the Breeders' Cup Juvenile Turf. Well done. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT