AMERICAN ATHLETIC CONFERENCE MEDIA DAYS
July 30, 2013
Blake Bortles
George O'Leary
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		  THE MODERATOR:   We're joined by University of Central Florida Coach George O'Leary.   Also joining Coach O'Leary today are quarterback Blake Bortles, offensive guard Jordan McCray, offensive guard Justin McCray.
COACH O'LEARY:   UCF is very happy to be a member of the American and compete at the highest level as far as DivisionI football is concerned.   I've been very impressed with the American Conference, the organization, the drive of the commissioner as far as what direction we're heading as far as the program is concerned.   And again I think there's a lot of geography in the future that is going to be looked at, and I think right now the American is in as good of shape as it can be as far as competition is concerned and having the ability to play at the highest level you can play in football. 
With that, any questions? 

Q.   Obviously this is something that the university has been waiting for for a while to step up into a new conference.   How important is this season for your program to have success right away in this conference against teams like Louisville, Cincinnati, and out of conference against Penn State and South Carolina? 
COACH O'LEARY:   We play 12 one‑game seasons.   And as someone asked me last night who is the toughest game, and I said Akron, because that's the opening game.   That's how I look at the schedule.   You play one game at a time and see where you are at the end of the year. 
But I think the key thing with this conference is not the conference playing themselves but the nonconference games.   You've gotta get your share of wins there if you're going to take notice.   That's how I look at it. 
And I believe‑‑ this is my third conference I've been in.   And I believe that's what you need to do, because that's how other schools are looking at you, not within your conference but outside the conference how you do. 

Q.   How big was getting the Bowl ban, getting that appeal?   What chance did you feel going in that you had?
COACH O'LEARY:   I thought we had a great chance based on the criteria that the NCAA used to give us a Bowl ban. 
And I did bang my fist on the table a lot with the committee.   And I think it was something that needed to be done.   But, again, our president, John Hitt, understood what I was driving at based on the criteria we didn't fit the mold.
And I was very happy that we got the band rescinded.   And, again, I always laugh with Coach O'Brien at Penn State, I blamed him, because our case came up right after the Penn State case.   I still think they had their guns blazing at that time, the NCAA.   But I think that's one that should have been rescinded.   I didn't think the criteria fit the crime. 
I want to do something with you, though, because this isn't about the coaches, this thing.   This is about players.   They're the ones that have to go out.   Let me bring the guys up to introduce them.   Come on up, fellows.   You may have some questions for them.   The first two look alike because they're twins.   All right.   There's Jordan and Justin McCray, both guards, and Blake Bortles, the quarterback.   He's a junior, the other two are seniors.   Again, we start today.   So we're flying right out of here, team reports today.   We start practice tomorrow. 
So, again, is there any other questions for the players or anything else they can help you with? 

Q.   I know you usually like to bring seniors here and you've got the McCrays, but you bring a junior quarterback.   How important do you think this season or how big is this season for Blake as a starter to take hold of that leadership role and to kind of take ownership of the team?
COACH O'LEARY:   Well, let him tell you.   He has to play. 
BLAKE BORTLES:   I think it's awesome for Coach O'Leary to bring me here.   It's a privilege to be able to experience this.   And as a quarterback, it's very important to be that leader, and that comes with the territory and the position you play. 
So I'm just thankful that Coach O'Leary brought me on the trip. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT