NORTH CAROLINA STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 11, 2017
Bradley Chubb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
NC State - 17, Boston College - 14   
 Q.  Was it worth celebrating?  
BRADLEY CHUBB: It definitely was.  A great team win.  It wasn't pretty at first, but we pulled it out, so we're all happy about that.   
 Q.  After that kind of screwy turnover where they scored and you guys got behind, what was the thought process there?  
BRADLEY CHUBB: Just finish the game off strong.  We knew coming in that we were going to be the better team, and we just had to prove it to ourselves and to them.  We just came out on defense.  We realized we're going to have to win the game for the team.  So that's the role we took.   
 Q.  You passed Mario Williams, I think both career mark sacks and tackles for loss.  It seemed like an inevitability at some point this season, but to actually do it, your thoughts?  
BRADLEY CHUBB: It feels amazing.  It hasn't hit me yet, but I feel like when I get home and lay in my bed to just sit down, it's going to all come at once.  But it's definitely something I was pushing for this year, and I'm glad I finally did it.   
 Q.  First of all, congratulations on that.  That's a great honor.  So, goals are still, I would imagine, ten wins, seven wins ACC.  Any thoughts going into the last couple games of Wake, Carolina, in-state rivalries?  
BRADLEY CHUBB: We know they're going to be great games.  We can't let this win cloud our minds, and I can't let our accomplishments cloud my mind.  We have to push into the next week and come out ready to work on Tuesday.   
 Q.  What is the difference with you guys when you have Nyheim and when you don't?  
BRADLEY CHUBB: Nyheim's a dynamic playmaker on special teams and running the ball.  So I mean, he's just one of the best players that I've seen with the ball in his hands.  Him and Jay Sam.  When those two are clicking, it's a beautiful thing to see.   
 Q.  Did you see him sprinting down the sideline?  
BRADLEY CHUBB: Yeah, I saw him on the big screen.  I was trying to stay warm, but I had looked up last minute and saw him score, so, yeah.   
 Q.  You're not smiling right now.  
BRADLEY CHUBB: Oh, yeah, definitely.  Not at all.  Big-time playmaker.   
 Q.  What did you think worked for you guys?  I think in the second half you were a little more effective than Dillon in stopping the run.  What did you think worked out?  
BRADLEY CHUBB: Our main thing this week -- because in the three games we lost, we got outscored 42-0, and we knew that was unacceptable.  So coming out at halftime, I knew the team just rallied together and knew the third quarter wasn't our strongest quarter the past couple games, so we just came out and tried to play as fast as we possibly can.   
All credit to the Boston College running back.  He was an outstanding player we just schemed it, and everybody executed what they needed to do.   
 Q.  Steal any towels?  
BRADLEY CHUBB: No, not today.  Nobody had them on, so I couldn't go for one.   
 Q.  Two different quarterbacks, too.  
BRADLEY CHUBB: Yeah, neither one of them had one on.   
 Q.  They must have known?  
BRADLEY CHUBB: Yeah, turf field is a little different.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT