ROSE BOWL GAME PRESENTED BY VIZIO: OREGON v WISCONSIN
December 30, 2011
Bradie Ewing
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How has it been this week, everything that you've been through, practices, fun, fun stuff, how has it been? 
BRADIE EWING:   It's been awesome.   It's been a great experience.   Having been out here last year and done some of the things, I think added to the experience this year, just knowing what to expect, what to do, who to hang out with, just all that kind of stuff. 
So it's different, though.   We are having a great time with practice.   We are working hard.   Enjoying stuff, like I said. 

Q.   What's it like playing with Montee?
BRADIE EWING:   Montee is incredible.   Just a great guy, great guy to be around, and on the field, obviously you've seen what he can do.   He gives all of his praise to the offensive linemen and tight ends and receivers and myself and stuff like that, so I couldn't ask for a better running back to play with. 

Q.   What do you think is the biggest thing people from or he gone, fans who don't know about Wisconsin, either the football team‑‑
BRADIE EWING:   I don't know.   I would just say our football team, I don't think they understand‑‑ I don't know.   Can you ask a different question?   I was confused there. 

Q.   Anything that you think that people don't know about your team. 
BRADIE EWING:   I think just the kind of guys we have, the character guys we have.   They are people you can take home to your parents and hang out with and just enjoy.   I don't know if it's that way everywhere.   I'm just truly blessed to be a part of this team and these teammates.

Q.   What are your thoughts on Oregon's defense, 43 sacks on the season.   Obviously you have to scheme to that. 
BRADIE EWING:   Yeah, their defense is special.   Obviously they have great playmakers.   They run a different scheme than we have seen typically this year and stuff like that with kind of a 3‑4 base.   They have got tall, lanky linebacker‑type guys that can get to the quarterback and just the way they scheme up things has been tough throughout the preparation but it's been good to have the extended time for sure. 
Bowl prep has been kind of long, you know what I mean.   Coach has been smart about it, giving us time off here and there, practices short and crisp.   We are excited to amp up and have a steady build up to game time. 

Q.   Inaudible.
BRADIE EWING:   I would say Lawrie's beef was pretty awesome, being able to go with the team and just enjoy that festive tie and have some great prime rib and just hang out, it's been a blast and just enjoying this team and these coaches and stuff is truly special. 

Q.   Inaudible.
BRADIE EWING:   I don't know if I'm too excited about it ending but if it is going to end, this is the place I want it to happen and we want to go out on a win this year.   Just enjoy the experience and live it to its fullest and try to go out and win. 

Q.   Nobody choked on any meat at Lawrie's? 
BRADIE EWING:   Yeah, they said the goal of the night was to not have anyone choke or have to get a Heimlich maneuver.   I think we came out pretty good in that regard, but it was a fun event, yeah.   It was great.   I know Travis I think had eight pieces of prime rib or something like that.   I don't know how he's feeling today, I'll have to talk to him about that but it's pretty fun. 

Q.   Pretty heavy in the stomach?
BRADIE EWING:   There's definitely some lighter things you can eat for sure.   I don't even know if he ate the potatoes and corn and stuff like that with it, but I know he had eight pieces of prime rib and he had all the fat with it, too.   Didn't cut it off. 

Q.   Who is the funniest guy on the team?
BRADIE EWING:   If you get a chance, talk to Antonio, maybe during interview, Pete Konz, No.66, our center.

Q.   I heard Konz is funny. 
BRADIE EWING:   He'll be funny in interviews, too.   Some guys are really funny out of interviews and when they get in interview, they tighten up a little bit but Pete Konz will joke around with you and play with you. 

Q.   We'll go talk to him.   What do you think he's going to say? 
BRADIE EWING:   What are you going to ask him. 

Q.   Something about Wisconsin. 
BRADIE EWING:   He'll probably talk about‑‑ well, he's from Neenah, so they have ‑‑ they make the huge plates, you might mention that if you ask him about his hometown.   Neenah, Wisconsin. 

Q.   Inaudible.
BRADIE EWING:   I think they are sweet.   I think sticking with the traditional Wisconsin, what we have stuck with throughout the years, but at the same time, added something special for the Rose Bowl and for this game, is pretty awesome. 

Q.   The contrast in the offensive styles, what's your take? 
BRADIE EWING:   It's been nice to have some extended prep.   Obviously their defense is a little different than we have seen.   They present like a 3‑4 type defense moving the linebackers around a little bit.   It's been nice to have the extended prep like I said, and they are going to bring some different schematic things as far as blitzes and things like that that we have been preparing for as far as blitz pick‑up. 
It's going to be great and a good challenge for us and the quarterback and the whole line just to identify your matchups and get going. 

Q.   Inaudible.
BRADIE EWING:   Joking around with some of the guys earlier this week, I miss the cooler weather, this is hot for me, but it's fun.   I enjoy Wisconsin.   I come from a small town, which is a rural area, we have got farms and stuff like that, so I enjoy that and Madison is a great community.   Just everyone‑‑ we are the only Division I football team in the state. 
So everyone is surrounding you and supporting you and everything is all about Badgers and Wisconsin and so it's just a true blessing to be from there and I'm proud of it. 

Q.   Inaudible.
BRADIE EWING:   Oh, absolutely.   Bratwurst cheese, beer, whatever.   That's huge.   Cheese curds, box of cheese, bratwurst, anything. 

Q.   You really like the Wisconsinbeer? 
BRADIE EWING:   I personally don't drink a lot of beer, but I know like most people do in Wisconsin, yeah. 

Q.   Inaudible.
BRADIE EWING:   To each his own, you know what I mean.   To each his own. 

Q.   What's the thing you've enjoyed most so far?
BRADIE EWING:   Probably the Beef Bowl, or Disney was really fun, too.   Get to interact with some kids and do different stuff.   It was fun. 

Q.   Have you been to Disneyland‑‑ is there a favorite ride? 
BRADIE EWING:   I enjoyed Screaming, the big roller coaster, that was a blast.   Just you do a total loop, it's just incredible.   And then when you first start off, they shoot you out so you just fly like 60 miles an hour up this ramp, it's pretty fun. 

Q.   Being a fullback against this kind of defense, is it important to get?
BRADIE EWING:   I've been saying they run a 3‑4‑type defense so they present some different running opportunities for us, and it's been different, some of our preparation stuff.   But schematically we are sticking still to what we do, and yeah, it's all about getting Montee to the second level on the safeties and that starts with the O‑line and myself and the tight ends.

Q.   A little different scene, nickel defense? 
BRADIE EWING:   It is a little different and it's been good to have extended preparation for that. 
Yeah, I mean, they present‑‑ like I said, a 3‑4‑type defense and they move the defensive ends and linebackers around, so it's a little different.   We have to play in the open field with our big guys a little bit but it will be a fun challenge. 

Q.   Inaudible.
BRADIE EWING:   It is, and I think that was big in the Big10 Championship, as well.   When we were behind the sticks, I think it was the second quarter, we didn't do well on first down and we didn't do well in our drives that way.   I think at Wisconsin, we need to be able to do well on first down and at least get three or four yards and keep our playbook open and do things that way. 

Q.   Susceptible to routes‑‑
BRADIE EWING:   Possibly, just depends what they present.   It's a game‑time decision.   Coach Chryst calls it as he sees it and depending what they present and what they are depending well, depends what we call.   And I think if I get the opportunity, I know Russell can put it on the spot and hopefully I can catch it again. 

Q.   Inaudible.
BRADIE EWING:   It's huge, obviously with Oregon's speed and stuff like that, they have play‑making ability on those units and we have been stressing it throughout our preparation and Coach B is making a huge point of it and it's a huge challenge.
Guys that are special teams specialists are really excited and amped up for it, and ready for the challenge. 

Q.   What's it like being the second time, totally different than the first? 
BRADIE EWING:   It is different.   I like it.   I mean, I just feel more comfortable.   Not shocked by everything.   They treat you like stars out here.   It's an awesome experience to be here with this team, and this coaching staff, again, is very special.   Something we are not taking for granted. 

Q.   Inaudible.
BRADIE EWING:   I have never seen Russell wide‑eyed really, just a guy that's real composed and just a great guy. 
Yeah, I don't think he's been wide‑eyed at all, he's enjoying the experience with us and it's been fun, but enjoying with him as well. 

Q.   Running backs and fullback‑‑ to have thing to take‑‑ what year was that when they came to you? 
BRADIE EWING:   I think it was after my freshman year.   Because I had shoulder surgery, and hernia surgery after my freshman year, and then, yeah, they switched me, because I remember like being worried about my shoulder. 

Q.   Who did you meet with? 
BRADIE EWING:   Coach B brought it up‑‑ we actually tried it my freshman year in Bowl prep, getting ready for the champ sports Bowl and they moved me there for a couple of plays and then I had no idea what was going on.   I was just kind of running around hitting people. 
But yeah, they tried me there and then I think in spring ball, and then the next year, yeah, when Mickey Turner was there, he was the starter and so I was backing him up.   And then my junior year, Ryan and I did it and then this year, myself.

Q.   Is this a tough thing to take?
BRADIE EWING:   Switching? 

Q.   Yeah, going from the guy who touches the ball?
BRADIE EWING:   Not really.   It was‑‑ I mean, I've always played running back.   But being here at Wisconsin, I was just glad to be here.   I was playing special teams.   At Wisconsin, we bring in four or five running backs every other year, so I didn't know if I had a great opportunity to play at running back.   And I think fullback was more suited for me, my skill sets and it gave me an opportunity to play and provide some support for the team.   So it was good. 

Q.   Can you describe yourself, do anything for the team? 
BRADIE EWING:   Absolutely.   I mean, when I came in as a freshman, I didn't know what to expect.   I came in as a running back like you said and they thought I could play special teams right away and be a backup running back and do some of that stuff. 
So I was just excited to be on the field, whether it was running back, special teams, whatever may be ‑‑ and even still now, I try to be on special teams and provide an edge that way for the team. 

Q.   Brett mentioned in a press conference a couple of weeks ago the Packers are looking at you, probably a dream come true; what did you think when you heard that?
BRADIE EWING:   That's crazy, haven't been thinking about it much, because like when I was growing up, the Badgers and Packers and Brewers, I'm a Wisconsin guy and this is where I've always wanted to be for college football.
And then I've always dreamed of playing in the professional football league.   If the opportunity came about with the Packers, that would be unbelievable but definitely I know the chances are pretty slim.   If I get an opportunity anywhere, I'll be very excited.

Q.   What would you say is the biggest thing you've improved on? 
BRADIE EWING:   I think just learning to adjust.   I think that's overlooked a lot.   As far as fullback, if we are running zone right, you have the will linebacker or whatever it might be; or power, if you're running a certain guy.   That's pretty simple stuff.
But when you learn to understand the game and where everyone is fitting and watch film and then learn to adjust, obviously you have a certain player to block on a certain play, but if you see a guy running free, you need to get the play started.   I think just learning to trust your eyes and trust your instincts and just play football. 

Q.   Inaudible.
BRADIE EWING:   I'm a big Badger fan. 

Q.   Do you remember your first game? 
BRADIE EWING:   My first memory from when I was younger is really going to like the Badger fun days down at Camp Randall and just being able to interact with the players and going down there with my parents and stuff like that.   So it's pretty cool now to be able to do that and give back to the kids like I took part in. 

Q.   Inaudible.
BRADIE EWING:   I heard about it and I didn't see it. 

Q.   What's your favorite thing to do here? 
BRADIE EWING:   I'd say either Lawrie's Beef or Disneyland.   At Disneyland we had a little ceremony and got the opportunity to interact with some kids and just hang out and have some fun. 
It was cool to let go and I've only been there‑‑ I've been there twice, so last year and one other time.   It was fun to be there and experience it with this team and this coaching staff and stuff like that.   Either that or Lawrie's Beef Bowl.

Q.   How many steaks did you put down?
BRADIE EWING:   I put down two this year. 

Q.   Inaudible.
BRADIE EWING:   I haven't.   I know at Wisconsin, we are pretty traditional.   So I think these uniforms are pretty awesome, just how they incorporate the Rose Bowl but at the same time, keep a traditional edge to it.   I think that's what Wisconsin is all about. 

Q.   Inaudible.
BRADIE EWING:   You can do what you want with the unforms and whatnot and obviously their uniforms are always really cool but the end of the day it's about the game and executing and that starts with your preparation and stuff like that.   So I think both teams are going to look cool doing that. 
Coach does a great job at balancing, finding the fine line between pushing you and giving you some time, and I think did he that this year, gave us some time during finals.   Yeah, he took back practice a little bit so we are not necessarily doing extended practices but we are keeping it fresh, keeping it short and just trying to be consistent in our preparation and covering all of our bases.   I think this year, we are really stressing special teams, as well. 

Q.   Inaudible.
BRADIE EWING:   It's a true blessing to have him on our team obviously.   You've seen the numbers and stuff he's done this year is just incredible.   He's a great guy off the field, as well.   I think Montee's coolest thing is‑‑ you see what he's done on the field speaks for itself like I said but when he's off the field, he's the same guy as you see in the media.   Just a great guy and fun to be around.   He's a blast. 

Q.   Would you share‑‑
BRADIE EWING:   I don't really care.   We are where we want to be, here at the Rose Bowl and whether that's him scoring or me scoring or Russell or Nick or whatever it might be is besides the point.   I think that's what is cool about this team is that everyone is just team first and whoever is scoring, whoever is making interceptions, we are just happy to be winning ball games. 

Q.   Last year, a little bright‑‑‑ed, now being back, are you less so? 
BRADIE EWING:   I think so.   I think any time in life or in football, when you experience something, you learn from it.   Especially when you come out on the losing end like we did last year.   And so to have that experience to be to the places like the Lawrie's Beef Bowl, Disneyland, your Pink's hot dogs, whatever it might be.   Just having that experience, having lost, I think you learn from it.   And I think guys are carrying that forward and trying to show the young guys that, as well. 
So, yeah, just enjoy the experience, but remember what's real important and that's your preparation in the game and have fun with these guys.   But at the end of the day, it's all about the ballgame. 

Q.   Should I go to Pink's? 
BRADIE EWING:   We are having that tonight.   We had that for snacks last year, they were pretty good last year. 

Q.   Different from last year‑‑
BRADIE EWING:   A little bit, Coach B, like I said earlier, he's good about finding the fine line between pushing you and giving you some time.   He did a great job with that through finals week, throughout preparation, right after the game against Michigan State and even up until this time.   He's scaling back practices a little bit so we have time to get our legs back and keep fresh. 
But at the same time, we are working and we are preparing, so it's similar to last year, but I think this year we are just being smart about it and stressing special teams more and just sticking true to what Wisconsin football is all about with our preparation and determination and stuff like that. 

Q.   Everybody talks about Oregon's offense, but what sticks out about their defense? 
BRADIE EWING:   Yeah, they are fast.   I think schematically, they are just a little different than teams we have played in the past.   More of a base 3‑4 front, stand up at the end and move the linebackers around. 
So it's a good challenge.   It's been nice to have the extra preparation to prepare for that.   Some of our run fits are a little different, so like I said, it's been nice to have the extra preparation time. 

Q.   You've been through this before, but what has this Rose Bowl experience been like for you? 
BRADIE EWING:   It's been great.   Just to experience it with these guys and this team and this coaching staff has been special, and having experienced it last year I think helps me narrow into what to experience this year and what to focus on.   It's been great. 
It's been a blast but we are focusing on what's most important and that's the preparation and the game.

Q.   Everybody seems to have a different theory as to what's the key to the game.   So for you what's the key to the game?
BRADIE EWING:   I think just doing what we do, sticking true to Wisconsin football and that's our run game and offense and passing when we need to, doing good on first down, not turning the ball over ask continuing to prepare that way throughout week.
On defense, continuing to do what they do, too, and play Wisconsin football and get some stops, get some turnovers.   Nothing spectacular, just do what we have done all season.

Q.   How do you like the new uniforms?
BRADIE EWING:   I like them a lot.   I think they are traditional, which is Wisconsin to a T, but at the same time, incorporate the history and tradition of the Rose Bowl and that's pretty special. 

Q.   Is it funny that with all of the talk about the game and things going on that one of the big stories has become your jerseys versus Oregon's jerseys? 
BRADIE EWING:   I don't know how many combinations they have, over a hundred or something like that with all of their jerseys and pants and helmets and stuff. 
It's cool to do something a little different here at Wisconsin, guys are excited about it, that's what it's all about, unfortunate enjoying it.   When it comes down to it, it's all about the football game, too. 

Q.   Being from the Madison area, Oregon or Oregon?
BRADIE EWING:   Oregon.   That's how I say it.   When I say or‑a‑gone, I know what they are talking about.   I more think of Oregon like the town near Madison when I hear Oregon.   But yeah, I don't know. 

Q.   I've been asking guys on the team, if you were to go on the Amazing Race and had to pick one guy as a partner to be your teammate, which guy on this team are you taking with you, and why? 
BRADIE EWING:   Probably Russell.   I mean, he's got the whole package obviously.   A great guy, would be fun to hang out with, a spiritual guy so when you're in trouble, we can pull through that way. 
Obviously you've seen his skill sets on the field, and then maybe get some help somewhere because he's a celebrity. 

Q.   True or false; so did you eat the most plates of beef at the Beef Bowl?
BRADIE EWING:   False.   I ate four last year and two this year.   Travis I think had eight.   There's a lot of guys that had four or five, though, so I'm at the back of the pack.

Q.   True or false; when you got to California, first thing you did was put a postcard in the mail to the Michigan State football office and said, "Wish you were here"? 
BRADIE EWING:   False. 

Q.   What do you think of the jerseys? 
BRADIE EWING:   I like them a lot.   I like the Bowl sweats, too.   They are big‑‑ they are nice. 

Q.   Did you guys take a look at the white hats? 
BRADIE EWING:   I think they have‑‑ I gave mine to my dad. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT