AMERICAN ATHLETIC CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 13, 2014
Eddie Jordan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		  Louisville - 92
Rutgers - 31

THE MODERATOR:   We will get started with Rutgers and head Coach, Eddie Jordan, Student Athletes, Wally Judge and J.J. Moore.   Eddie? 
COACH JORDAN:   Obviously it was a very disappointing performance for us.   A game like that really tests your character, and they're a good team, top‑5 in the country.   They've been to the top of the mountain and we're starting from the bottom of the mountain and we want to get to where they are. 
It's going to be a process for us, it has been a process for us, but I thought our guys had a lot of character and we just need to know how hard we have to work to get to where we want to go. 
Again, we were picked 10th, we ended up 7th, we won a first‑round game.   Again, it was a disappointing performance and disappointing loss but we achieved some things that was probably overachievement this year. 

Q.   You talked last night about slowing down against the press that sometimes that can break it but it seems like‑‑
COACH JORDAN:   Nothing worked tonight so just the X's and O's, throw it out the window.   It was something that we said in pregame, the X's and O's are probably not going to be the most important part of our success tonight, it's going to be making basketball plays, making plays, keep your spacing, what do you see, being able to make passes, be receivers and make a good pass to get a good, quality shot. 
That didn't work for us, either.   We tried, we gave great effort.   There were times when there was a crack in the armor where we didn't give it 100%, we didn't get back, we threw lazy passes, we were hoping instead of doing.   That's where the two programs are right now.   That's reality. 

Q.   Coach, you talk about testing your character.   What did you tell them at the half?   What do you do to try to get their minds into the game? 
COACH JORDAN:   We wanted to slow the game down a little bit and move the ball and not really look at first shots.   Probably get into a scoring mode, run about fifteen seconds.   I don't know if it worked but after a few possessions I said to myself, just do what we have been doing all year, but let's still move the ball a little bit more, let's not take, again, tough attempts, let's get the ball in the paint, keep running. 
So let's just go out the way we have been doing all year, just do what we have been doing but with more patience. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, gentlemen.   







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT