NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 18, 2007
Eddie Jordan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  There's this often talked about disparity in conferences, between East and West, the Western Team is dominant.  When you look at the two teams, is there anything to that extent that you see?   
 EDDIE JORDAN:  Yeah, I see the West being old and the East being young, for the most part, their starters.  I see the West being bigger and the East being smaller.  So I think that we're going to be the most exciting team and the fastest and the quickest and the up-tempo team.  And I hope that's where it goes.   
 But, you know, I know the records speak for themselves, Dallas, Phoenix, even the Lakers, with their injuries being nine over .500, but I've seen the East come out West and beat some teams on the road.  And the last I looked Miami was a champion and Detroit was a champion just the last few years.  At the end of the day it's competitive.   
  
  Q.  Do you feel your guys are actually going to play in the game, then?   
 EDDIE JORDAN:  Yeah, I think they'll play.  They didn't practice very well, but I think they're saving all that for the game.   
  
  Q.  I wanted to get your thoughts on what it's been like to watch Gilbert this year, and if he's a viable MVP candidate?   
 EDDIE JORDAN:  I'm a fortunate coach to have a guy like Gilbert.  He does so many wonderful things for us.  He makes winning shots, he carries games for us.  He does great things in the community.  He's a terrific kid to coach.   
 And as an MVP candidate, that's for other people to judge.  But he certainly is very special to our organization.  And for the first part of the year he struggled early in November.  He was terrific in December.  The defense sort of loaded up on him in January, and Caron got better, and Antawn got better.  And when Antawn went down, we struggled a little bit.  It shows that Gil knows how to get it done himself and how to help his teammates.  Now we're about eight over .500, and if we can continue that sort of pace then that's something for you guys to judge at the end.   
  
  Q.  Just wondering how you feel about the NBA coming to Vegas as an actual team?   
 EDDIE JORDAN:  I think it's very exciting, very exciting.  People can get here relatively easy.  I guess you guys got it easy, without the weather.  It's sort of made for the excitement and the entertainment capital of the world, if you will.   
 And that's what this is about, showcasing talent and the best in the world.  So I think it's very, very appropriate.   
  
  Q.  Second half of the season a lot of people think with the acquisition of Chris Webber that Detroit has become the favorite, and Detroit players don't like being the favorite.  Are they the favorite and if so, is that fine with you for the pressure to be on them?   
 EDDIE JORDAN:  I tell you what, they've gone and won, I think, seven in a row.  Chris is involved now in what they do.  When Chauncey has the ball people have to worry about Rip.  And then sometimes you have to worry about Rasheed picking pops.  But when Chris Webber has the ball, everybody is dangerous.  He's shown to be a great passer and the more you pass the easier it is for him to score.   
 So he's a terrific facilitator, and yet he can score in the paint, he can score on the perimeter.  It opens it up for everyone else to be cutters and guys who can get hands back and run pick and rolls.  He gives them another dimension that's almost unguardable.   
  
  Q.  Do you have a favorite?   
 EDDIE JORDAN:  I can't disrespect Miami, they're the defending champion, they're getting guys back.  I'd say Miami and Detroit are the guys you have to get through to contend for the Eastern Conference Championship.   
  
  Q.  There's been lots of speculation this week about this being a possible NBA city in the future.  Do you think it could be a good NBA city and would there be a problem with all the distractions?   
 EDDIE JORDAN:  I'm not that smart.  And I know the commissioner is a Rutgers grad like I am, so he'll make the right decisions.  It's something I haven't thought about.  I just know it's a terrific time and place for this event.   
  
  Q.  There was a player this summer on the USA Team that felt he wasn't treated well and got angry at the coaches, I don't know which one, but there was one.  When you coach your team now do you look at like, I've got to put Dwayne Wade in for a certain time or Richard Hamilton or maybe they'll get mad and try to get 50 on me?   
 EDDIE JORDAN:  No, they understand that.  We have to divvy out equal minutes as much as possible.  And I think they understand that if there's a way to win with the group in there, we'll stay with that group that's doing well.  We'll try to get to equal minutes and Caron and Joe, in the past, would have to take up the slack because they're new All-Stars and they're the ones that probably get the short end of the stick, but Caron plays 42 minutes for us anyway, so he won't get mad at coach.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT