NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 16, 2007
Eddie Jordan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  From a coach's perspective, would you like to have a team in Las Vegas?   
 EDDIE JORDAN:  I think our commissioner is a very bright man and his decision is something that we all can live with.  And if he thinks that Vegas is ready for a team, I think that's sound.  I think it's good.   
 After all, he is a Rutgers grad.   
  
  Q.  For a guy who might win a third straight MVP, do you think people have any clue how good Steve Nash is?  As a coach, why is he so good?   
 EDDIE JORDAN:  Nash is good because, it's the old adage, if you help a teammate first, you've helped yourself.  He's the ultimate in that.   
 He makes sure that everybody is good, everybody has quality looks and eventually he's the man.  He's just a special player.  He can get where he wants to get with the dribble.  He possesses all the skills.  He can make tough layups, he can make shots, he can make threes, he can get easier looks.   
 If you go by, if you help your teammates first, you eventually help yourself.  He's the perfect example.   
  
  Q.  Miami has been on a roll lately, are they still the team to beat in the Eastern Conference?   
 EDDIE JORDAN:  Miami and Detroit.  I wouldn't count New Jersey out.  They've lost guys for extended amounts coming down the stretch, but certainly Detroit, they've had a great run.  We beat them twice in one week.  I hate to remind them, but they had won seven or eight in a row and I think them and Miami are the team to beat.   
  
  Q.  Can you talk about being the coach for the East?   
 EDDIE JORDAN:  Well, you don't go into the season saying, "We really want to be the All-Star coaching staff."  That's the last thing on your mind.  It's just how things work out.   
 We had a terrific December.  We had a tough November, but a terrific December.  There was some injuries in the east, especially with New Jersey, Detroit, and Miami.  Cleveland's been going pretty good.  And as a matter of fact we had to have Miami win an overtime game against Cleveland to get here.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT