BAYLOR UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 18, 2017
Grayland Arnold
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








-->
Iowa State - 23, Baylor - 13
Q. (No microphone) did that seem to kind of give you guys a little bit of a lift there because, you know, even though you guys bent, you didn't break on that?
GRAYLAND ARNOLD: Yeah.  We did bend.  We didn't break.  But also, we got to get off the field.  You know, we can't be on the field that long.  We've got to get a turnover at some point.  We didn't get any turnovers, and that was our main objective.  That was one of our main goals was to get a turnover.  That's part of the process.
Q. What was the key as far as this defense because you guys lost Taylor so early.  How did that change any of the dynamics about playing defense in this game?
GRAYLAND ARNOLD: It didn't really change anything.  It just was a big loss.  Taylor is a great player.  He makes a lot of plays.  Somebody don't fit in the gap, Taylor's the type of guy that can fill in two gaps and just make a lot of plays.  He's a great player.  So that hurt.
Q. Do you guys feel like you guys are playing the best defense of the season right now, even in spite of the reults of the game?
GRAYLAND ARNOLD: It's not the best.  I mean, once again, we didn't get no turnovers, but we feel like we're playing -- we're getting better and better each week, but it comes a time where we like, we just -- it ain't about getting better.  It's like about all right, let's go out and total dominate from start to finish.  First quarter to fourth quarter.  If it go to overtime, keep dominating and that's what we've really got to do.  We got to get turnovers.
Q. What do you think going through this season will make you guys in the future?  Do you think it will make you kind of just tough and kind of impervious?
GRAYLAND ARNOLD: Yeah.  I mean, we keep getting tougher, but I feel like it will open the younger guys up, like myself, because I'm a younger guy too.  But it will open the guys up to like the process.  You've got to live for the process.  So, like, we say take away the ball and get the ball out at practice.  That's very important, because that's (no microphone) to the game.  All that stuff means a lot.
Q. How much does it hurt you to (no microphone)?
GRAYLAND ARNOLD: It's going to hurt a lot, because I know it hurt him.  So when it hurt him, it hurt me.  Because when I came here my first year, Taylor was one of the guys that just -- he's like legitimately like my big brother.  So like me just seeing him with that pain, it hurts.  I just know like we got to do everything we can to try to get (no microphone) fell short.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT