BAYLOR UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 28, 2017
Grayland Arnold
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Texas - 38, Baylor - 7
Q. When you were trying to wrangle things back together?
GRAYLAND ARNOLD: I felt like it was big at the moment because we needed that turnaround to try to get the momentum going with the offense, just little things like that.
Q. Creating turnovers has been kind of difficult for you guys this year.  Do you think that can start something where you guys kind of start to believe you can do that?
GRAYLAND ARNOLD: Yeah, I mean, I feel like it broke it for the corners because we haven't had a pick.  I feel like now the rest of the corners are going to be like, okay, I've got to get me one.  I hope that's what it leads to with the rest of the corners.
Q. What are the positives you take away from a game like this?
GRAYLAND ARNOLD: I mean, we made plays.  Defensively I felt like we did a great job, but it's just once you go back and watch film, you see little things like, oh, I could have made this play.  That's some things where like, okay, now I've got to practice hard all week so now I know I have the energy and the drive to go make that play next time I get the opportunity.
Q. Coach mentioned that Monday would sort of tell the story with this team.  How do you feel like you guys will come out on Monday for practice?
GRAYLAND ARNOLD: I mean, like every week we've been coming back bouncing back.  We know, okay, we've got to practice, and don't get discouraged and don't let the little things get to you.  Like let's just come out here and keep practicing.  We're going to practice each day like it's a game and go hard every week.
Q. What do you have to do a little differently, a little better against Kansas next week?  How do you get a little bit better this week?
GRAYLAND ARNOLD: It's going to start at practice, your preparation.  Just more film.  I feel like we watch a lot of film as a group.  I know we do.  But I know it's going to take more.  You're going to have to do something you've never done before to get your first win, mentally and physically.
Q. Is it a little mindboggling that your interception was only the second for the team?  You've got a few playmakers on your side.
GRAYLAND ARNOLD: Yeah, actually it can be discouraging at times and disturbing, as well.  Like we know the playmakers that we have.  We see it every day at practice, like we've just got to translate that over to the field and make the plays happen.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT