AT&T PEBBLE BEACH NATIONAL PRO-AM
February 13, 2015
Justin Hicks
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Just talk about being‑‑ playing today and then being one off the lead heading into the third round. 
JUSTIN HICKS:   Well, I don't really think of a lead until Saturday night in this event, just because everyone's playing three golf courses over the first three days. 
So depending upon which courses you've played, it's not really a fair assessment to say there's a leader after the first round or second round.   There's really only a leader after the third round and the fourth round this week. 
But I kind of have a benchmark in my mind as far as what I think I should got out of these golf courses.   Yesterday I did a pretty good job of that.   Today, I left a few out there, but these are probably to me, some of the trickiest greens of all of the golf courses for me at least.   Just over the years I found that it's a little harder to make putts on this golf course. 
So I got a few birdies out of it and just had a couple of others and we'll go out there tomorrow and hopefully keep making birdies. 

Q.   What's the one thing that's allowing you to make birdie and allowing you to play well this week?
JUSTIN HICKS:   I kind of got back to what I did really well last year, which is just driving it straight, and my iron game's coming back.   So, as long as I'm doing that, I think I can do a lot of good things in game.   When I start to get off with the driver and the irons seem to kind of go with that, too, that's when it's a lot harder.   So, I think last year I was top‑5 in fairways and top‑5 in greens and when I hit the ball really well, I have a lot of opportunities, so it makes it hard to almost play bad golf is the way I like to think of it.   Then it's just a matter of seeing how many birdies you can make. 

Q.   This format, this pro‑am format, you've obviously had success, not at this level but on the WEB.COM TOUR.   Is this a format you like?
JUSTIN HICKS:   I think whether it be good or bad, that it is away that sometimes having good playing partners, guys you enjoy, you can kind of feed off that a little bit.   If you're out there joking around with them and you're all talking about your backgrounds and where you're from an what you like to do on your time off, it certainly can make it a little bit more of an easygoing feeling out there, not necessarily as tense as like maybe a normal event. 
But I think that we knew early on this week that we were hitting the ball a lot better and once that kind of took over, I think it was easier for us to kind of relax a little bit, because it's been a tough road up until now this year and we're starting to make the turn I think for the better.

Q.   (No Microphone.)
JUSTIN HICKS:   You got to go out there, you got to hit fairways and you got to find ways to not only hit greens but put it in the right spot on the greens.   Because they got some tricky greens out there, too.   There's a lot of instances where you might have a short club in your hand, as far as like a wedge or something and you might not really be thinking about hitting it near the pin.   You might have a 15 foot putt like sometimes you have at Pebble and really you're hoping just to kind of get it close to the hole and if it goes in it's a bonus. 
It's a different kind of golf this week than a lot of the courses we play throughout the year because it has some severity at times to hole locations and putts that you might be faced with.   So, you have to really kind of be good about thinking to yourself, is this green light, yellow light, or red light when you're standing up over a shot or putt and just trying to handle it your best.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT