BARRACUDA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 3, 2014
Justin Hicks
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   27 birdies.   Leads the field this week.   Coming off the best finish of your career last week, your best finish of your career two weeks in a row now.   What were the nerves like for you coming down the stretch?  
JUSTIN HICKS:   You know, I think last week I was a little bit more nervous than this week, believe it or not.   I think for me this year, we were in a good position going into this week.   We didn't have as much pressure as some of the guys out here that are kind of vying for the FedEx list and trying to figure out how to keep their cards and things like that.   
We're well inside of everything.   Trying to make plans for the fall and figure out hopefully how far we can make the run in the playoffs.   
All along I said we're trying to get ready for the playoffs.   Kind of playing some good golf leading into it, but hopefully we can continue and play that out the rest of the year.  
   
 Q.   Last year was your first year keeping your status on the PGA TOUR.   111th on the FedExCup points.   Playing this year, how much less pressure ‑‑   you mentioned a little less pressure‑‑ but how much less pressure starting the year than you had at every other point in your career when you were fighting for starts?  
JUSTIN HICKS:   Yeah, once you get through that first year and you're in the 125 category it really kind of sets up for you know where you're going to play and where you're not going to play really.   
So it was nice because I got to see some of the greatest tournaments that we have throughout our schedule with Riviera this year and Phoenix.   
It was just really nice to have that security and know, Hey, I can actually take a week off or two when I want to versus feeling like I have to play every week.   
  
Q.You're going to need some help from Ogilvy if you want a chance to win.   That's beyond your control.   Your life hasn't always been six‑figure checks.   How far removed are you from $4 an hour?   
JUSTIN HICKS:   Yeah, first five years out of college I was in South Florida, just moved straight down there and with a college degree was fighting to get these jobs with high school kids down there.   
Met a lot of great people over the course of about six years trying to find sponsors and things so I could play full time.  
Finally got the opportunity to.   It's been a great ride.   My wife has been pretty patient with me.   I think I was a 36‑year‑old rookie.   
For a lot of people out there it's a great story because it showed that I believed in something and stuck it out and I got out here.   
But I'm trying to model myself after some of the guys that have come along and peaked late.   Maybe the Jay Haases or somebody like that that's had more of a career in their 40s or something.   Thinking to myself, this is my third year out here and I feel a lot younger than I am.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT