RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 24, 2014
Justin Hicks
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Justin, great round, great open start to the day, 66, great position.   Tell us a little bit about your round today. 
JUSTIN HICKS:   Well, we got off to a little bit of a rough start actually.   I think I was a couple over early.   But it's a good golf course and one that kind of a lot of people were saying would be up my alley.   I keep it in play a fair bit, hit a fair number of greens, and I think out here that's a pretty good combination.   It's got some tricky rough around the greens for sure, and it's a pretty good layout, I enjoy it.   It's fun playing at a place that kind of reminds you a little bit of growing up.   This isn't too far from Michigan.   It's a neat place.   I enjoy it.

Q.   I hear you had a very interesting series of numbers.   You birdied all the even numbers on the back nine and parred all the odd numbers.   Are you going to go play roulette or something tonight?
JUSTIN HICKS:   I had no idea that happened quite honestly.   I was just out there trying to make as many birdies as I could.   You say I birdied the even numbers? 

Q.   Exactly. 
JUSTIN HICKS:   Oh, good.   I've got even numbers coming out tomorrow on my golf ball, so hopefully we'll keep that going. 

Q.   Tell us a little bit about your year.   You've had a very solid year, looks like you're safely inside the FedExCup number.   What have you learned from previous years on this TOUR?
JUSTIN HICKS:   I think every year you're out here you get a little more comfortable playing with the guys out here, which for me was kind of a big stepping‑stone.   My first year out here there was still some guys out here from my youth that I had kind of grown up and idolized a little bit.   To kind of get up on the range or the practice tee or whatever and see those guys out there, it seemed a little bit almost intimidating, and the more I was kind of around and saw the golf courses a little bit more, I think I was able to kind of get a little more comfortable and play the kind of golf that I like to play, which usually is keep it in the short grass and give myself chances for birdie with a putter. 
But I think the more you see the golf courses and if you can hit it straight, I think the world is your oyster out here.   Just trying to have fun with it.

Q.   Fourth in accuracy, third in greens in regulation, I would imagine this course sets up very nice for you and you're probably looking forward to the next three days?
JUSTIN HICKS:   Yeah, hopefully that's a good formula for any week.   But the only thing that we're really working hard on a lot lately is just trying to get those numbers better when we do miss greens.   The guys that I think are out here winning each week and that finish high in the spectrum of the FedExCup or Money List, I think they're really spectacular around the greens.   The more I think you get adjusted to that, then I think maybe we can really do some good damage out here.

Q.   A little bit of a slower start but you certainly made up for it the second nine especially. 
JUSTIN HICKS:   Yeah, we've got a couple of new things that we're working on these days and a new putter in the bag, so I think early on we missed a green or two there and I hit good putts but just didn't convert on the par putts.   So I kind of had a good feeling about‑‑ when your misses are right there burning the edge, you kind of feel like, wow, maybe today we'll have a chance to knock a few in.   I felt really comfortable out here this week.   It's a really neat golf course and it's a great town.   First time to Montreal, and just really enjoying myself here.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT