SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 3, 2014
Justin Hicks
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  JUSTIN HICKS:   Yeah, yeah, we had a good time.   Got a putter a few weeks ago and just kind of made golf a little bit more fun for me.   I don't feel like I have to hit the ball 5 feet on every hole to have a chance out there, just really made it a lot more fun for me.   Kind of sticking to my formula trying to hit fairways and greens and pick my battles, know that I've got a long club, maybe middle of the green and try to get a two-putt and get out.   The ball to the front and go in, just a bonus.  
   
 Q.   How did the drizzle affect the green?  
JUSTIN HICKS:   They were definitely slower.   I saw the coverage this morning.   They've been a little slow all week.   Usually the greens here and in years past that I've been here have been phenomenal.   They're really good, they're just not really as fast as what I can recall them being here, and maybe the plan is to get them quicker by week's end, but right now you got to bring a little extra heat in there when you're hitting a longer putt, especially into the green.  
   
 Q.   You were able to get through and complete the round and be one shot off the lead.  
JUSTIN HICKS:   Yeah.   We had a hole out there which was on the unexpected side of things.   Hey, that's golf and we're having fun with it.   Fun day of golf and looking forward to three more rounds of it.  
   
 Q.   What with the hole-out, maybe just --  
JUSTIN HICKS:   Hit a really good drive on what hole is that, No. 7, the dogleg left, is it?   9, 8 -- 6.   6.   Yeah, 6.   Just through the fairway.   Actually on the edge of the fairway laying in the first cut, though, and we had 152 to the hole, we had to cover about 140 yards so we were cut in between chipping a little 9 and a hard wedge.   We decided to chip the 9.   It came out -- they were saying up by the green it was moving decent when it was getting to the pin.   Landed on the green and took a hop and started rolling and disappeared.   It was nice see that.   We've hit some close ones in the past.   Fun to watch one disappear.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT