SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE FOOTBALL CHAMPIONSHIP GAME: FLORIDA VS ALABAMA
December 14, 2020
Patrick Surtain
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









THE MODERATOR:   We'll continue with Patrick Surtain of Alabama.
Patrick, if you could take a moment to comment on the team entering the game against Florida, general thoughts on the game against Florida.
PATRICK SURTAIN:   They're obviously a great team.  They got great weapons on the outside.  It's going to be a challenge for us.  We're very excited for it.
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Patrick Surtain.
Q. What stands out about the Gators' play-makers?
PATRICK SURTAIN:   They're all special.  They do things differently.  They all have their different qualities.  But they all play-makers and they make plays.  We know it's going to be a challenge.
Q. Particularly Pitts and Toney, those guys have had great years.  How would you break down each of their games?
PATRICK SURTAIN:   Toney, he's very shifty.  He creates separation.  He's a great play-maker.
Pitts, he's a big body guy that creates separation through using his body.  He's great at the point of attack.
Q. About the defense, it would seem that your defense has made some really significant strides from the first half to the second half of the season.  How do you compare your defense now to what it was at the beginning of the season?  What has led to that improvement?
PATRICK SURTAIN:   At first we was a bit antsy, I'd say.  But now we're more confident in ourselves.  We trust what we do each and every day throughout the week.  We prepare better throughout the practices.
I feel like that got us our advantage into becoming one of the best defenses.
Q. Was there much questioning about that defense early in the year from people?  I don't imagine you're used to hearing that very much.  If so, how did you react?
PATRICK SURTAIN:   There was some types of concerns.  We had people declare for the draft, had some guys leave out.  We always hear stuff like that each and every year.  We just got to focus on what we need to do.
Q. You're one of the 16 players on Alabama's roster that's from the state of Florida.  What do you feel like this matchup means for you guys, playing against your home state team, you specifically because you were recruited by them?
PATRICK SURTAIN:   I just see it as another game.  I know I'm playing one of the in-state teams from where I'm from.
I'm just looking forward to the game.  I know it's going to be a highly competitive game.  We're all excited for it.
Q. What do you think about Florida's wide receiving corps, Kyle Trask as the quarterback?
PATRICK SURTAIN:   They have a great offense, potent offense, which leads to them making plays.  I just feel like it's going to be a challenge for us.  We going to be prepared and locked in throughout the week.
Q. What stands out about Kyle Trask?  What makes him special?  He's maybe having a Heisman year.
PATRICK SURTAIN:   He's obviously having a very special year.  He's knows where to attack the defense.  He always keeps the defenses on their heels through his passing attacks.  He's obviously a great player.
Q. What has gotten into your pass-rush these last couple few games?  You have, like, 15 sacks in the last three games.  What's been going on there?
PATRICK SURTAIN:   We just gaining confidence as the season goes on.  We carrying on that momentum each and every week.  I feel like the D-line is getting confident, as well.  We all like a whole unit.
Q. You've seen some great receivers on your own roster the last two years.  What is it about DeVonta that has made him the biggest touchdown maker of all?
PATRICK SURTAIN:   He's a special player.  He's very decisive, very smooth in his route running.  He just creates plays in a matter of time.
Q. What are those practice drills like, yourself being a first-round potential pick, some of the receivers?  I got to guess it keeps you really sharp.
PATRICK SURTAIN:   Yeah, keeps me really sharp.  Going against those guys every day helps me get prepared on Saturday.  It makes me better as a player.  I'm pretty sure it makes them better as a player.  We compete every day like it's a game-like situation.
Q. Jaylen Moody, he had to come in for Christian Harris after one play of the Arkansas game.  How do you think he handled that?
PATRICK SURTAIN:   He handled it well.  They always waiting for their name to be called upon.  It never goes down when somebody goes out.  We expected to keep rolling.
Moody did a great job last week.  We just expect him to do more things like that ahead throughout the course of the season.
Q. He would play behind Shane Lee and some others last year.  This year he's the first guy off the bench when needed.  What happened for him over the last year to put him in this position?
PATRICK SURTAIN:   I wouldn't say nothing happened.  They all worked hard.  I guess his name was just called upon.  But they all work for it.  There's no difference between all of them.
Q. Pretty well-known that for all the great Alabama teams Coach Saban has had, only one of them has gone undefeated.  How big of a goal and a focus is that for y'all not to have a stumble this late in the season?
PATRICK SURTAIN:   Obviously a great achievement to accomplish.  We not looking forward to having undefeated season.  We focus on finishing at the end of the season what we need to do.
Q. Is that a team that Coach Saban brings up to you guys?
PATRICK SURTAIN:   Not really he doesn't.  But he'll bring it up sometimes because obviously we having a special season.  But the job is still not finished yet.
THE MODERATOR:   That's all the questions for you, Patrick.  Thank you.
PATRICK SURTAIN:   We good?  All right.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT