NCAA DIVISION I WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 16, 2007
Ryan Lang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Ryan, just talk about what was tougher, the actual match or just having to wait that long to find out for sure that it was yours?   
 RYAN LANG:  Of course wait, it was like I was waiting on other people's decisions.  Almost out of control, but it worked out good, based on what was right.   
  
  Q.  Was there a question prior to that takedown?   
 RYAN LANG: I didn't think there was a question.  He had both hands on the matt.  He didn't trim fairly quick.  I remember laying out of bounds holding his leg and I looked at the clock and it said 32, and it fell my way.   
  
  Q.  Another way to ask that question, with 10 or 15 seconds left, was there any doubt in your mind you were going to get that takedown?   
 RYAN LANG: No, there can't be any doubt.  If there was doubt I wouldn't have got it.  There was a similar situation with Morgan.  , I took him down in the last five seconds.   
  
  Q.  Could you ever expected a kid from Carolina State and a kid from Rider would make it to the Nationals like you did?   
 RYAN LANG: Absolutely, if you make it to the quarter finals and semi finals of a national championship, whoever takes it is going to win it.  So you have to go out there and take it.   
  
  Q.  Fish has been a giant killer throughout the tournament.  Does that catch your attention going in?   
 RYAN LANG: Not much.  I had never wrestled him before, but I knew him heading into the tournament, heading into the match.  We all wrestled each other or various opponents since we were eight, nine, ten years old, dads carting us around the country.  You know the names, not the faces, so you have to be passionate to go up there and take a win.   
  
  Q.  What made this Fish so tough to wrestle?  What made it tough to get in on him like that?   
 RYAN LANG: Actually, for lack of a better way to say it, he's strong as shit.  He is really strong.  He has those big huge biceps, and I was shooting in and I was in bad position, but I knew if I wrestled harder I would get him.  That was the plan.   
  
  Q.  What if anything do you know about Derrick Moore?   
 RYAN LANG: I know he probably wants to be a national champ and I'm not going to let him.  He's good on top, he is real long and strong.  It's going to be a hard match.  Get his gas tank going.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT