UNIVERSITY OF TULSA FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 24, 2018
Seth Boomer
Trevis Gipson
Justin Hobbs
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
SMU - 24, Tulsa - 27   
THE MODERATOR: Questions.   
 Q.  Justin, that catch that you had late in the game, what happened on that play?  For this being your last game, how cool of a moment was that for you and your team?  
JUSTIN HOBBS: It was a great moment.  The play, when the ball was in the air, all I thought was just attack the ball.  It was a great throw by Seth.   
 Q.  What do you remember about that play, Seth?  
SETH BOOMER: Yeah, I think it was third down.  Singled out to Hobbs, one of our go-to pass plays.  We were talking about it all night.  Thought we were going to have it eventually.  Pulled it out at a pretty good time.  He made a heck of a catch, so...   
 Q.  Justin, as a senior, to end the season like this, the season that you've had, you've been so close so many times, maybe your best performance of the season, how does it feel for you knowing this is how your career ended?  
JUSTIN HOBBS: It feels great just to end with a win.  It meant a lot to me and all the rest of the seniors.  I'm glad we got this dub.   
 Q.  Trevis, you had two sacks, the defense had five sacks.  What was working for you to put pressure on them?  
TREVIS GIPSON: You know, we knew coming out into the game that they were a heavy pass team.  We had to pin our ears back, expecting them to follow through with their plans as they have all season.   
I feel like we had an upper hand on that, anticipating the pass.  Got a good jump off the ball, tried to make some more plays.   
 Q.  Trevis, what does it feel for you guys to go out with a win on your last game?  
TREVIS GIPSON: Honestly, it feels really, really good.  We did struggle this season.  We had our ups and downs.  To end the season with a good taste in our mouth, especially going against our rival, SMU, keeping them out of a ballgame, that really gives us a good feeling.   
 Q.  Seth?  
SETH BOOMER: Yeah, I mean, to go through the ups and downs that we did, I'm so grateful to be part of a team that battles like we did.  I thought we came out and grinded every day in practice.  It showed something about us to win this game, for sure.   
 Q.  Justin?  
JUSTIN HOBBS: It feels amazing.  I mean, this is what we worked for, just to get a win.  So that's what we did.   
 Q.  Seth, statistically your best game as quarterback here.  What did you see today?  How have you seen your progression?  How much do you carry that into the off-season?  
SETH BOOMER: Yeah, I mean, I feel like I took a lot of steps throughout the season.  Like I said, some ups and downs.  To go out like this, it's definitely a big deal to propel us into next year, so...   
 Q.  Was the celebration in the locker room today any better, more exciting, than your other two this season?  
TREVIS GIPSON: As I mentioned earlier, SMU is one of our biggest rivals.  Last year I felt like we let them slip away at the end.   
Going into the locker room with that feeling, and we did send our great seniors out with a great feeling, right, it feels really good.   
Honestly, at this point I forgot the question.  Sorry (laughter).   
 Q.  The celebration in the locker room, final win of the season.  
TREVIS GIPSON: It was really good.  It felt good.  It still feels good now.  We're going to try to carry it over.   
JUSTIN HOBBS: I mean, we turned up (smiling).  It was good.   
 Q.  Justin, Coach Montgomery got a little emotional when he was talking about your big play in the game, what you meant to the team.  How do you summarize what your career has been like, going out with a win tonight?  
JUSTIN HOBBS: I think the biggest thing has been ups and downs, just like everyone's career.  Learned how to pick myself up and dust myself off and go back to work.  That's what's coaches preach to you.  Meant a lot, so...   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT