CANON GREATER HARTFORD OPEN
July 2, 1998
Pete Morgan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  All right, everybody, we have Pete Morgan with us and I know everybody has a lot of questions for him.  If we could start off by going over your round, if you could tell us about the birdies that you made. 

PETE MORGAN:  Okay, started on 10, and hit drive a three iron to about a foot and a half, and I made it to get the things going.  And on the next hole I -- 11, I chipped in from the left fringe and that was kind of a lucky break there, because the ball was moving pretty quick and it hit dead center of the pin and went down.  


Q.  How far? 

PETE MORGAN:  How far, somebody ask?  


Q.  How far? 

PETE MORGAN:  30 feet, chip shot.  And next hole I hit two good shots, 12th hole about 12 feet right behind the hole and I made the putt and then I scrambled for a while.  Actually, the rest of the front nine was a struggle just to make pars, lot of up and downs, started the same way on the back nine ten, eleven, two good pars; one and two, two good pars, and then I birdied the -- two great shots on four.  My six iron, second shot right behind the pin, about eight feet, made that.  And six, the par five, made a birdie there; eight feet, ten feet.  


Q.  What club you hit with? 

PETE MORGAN:  Laid it up.  Sand lob wedge in there, 18 or 9.  My last hole, three wood nine iron, 15 feet behind the hole.  Somehow poured it in there.  That was it.  Six birdies, no bogies.  


Q.  Not bad.  Are you aware -- what were you thinking when that putt in?  Did you realize you were leading the tournament? 

PETE MORGAN:  Yeah, I knew where I stood.  I knew when I got at the five I was tied.  I don't have very many opportunities like this, so I said, let's get it to six and see how it feels.  


Q.  How does it feel? 

PETE MORGAN:  It feels good.  


Q.  Can you tell us a little bit about yourself, your background, there's not much in the media guide about me.  

PETE MORGAN:  Not a lot out there in the media guide about me.  I'm kind of a local guy.  I grew up on Cape Cod, went to Harwich High School, and from there I went to Jacksonville University.  And at that time the family relocated to Miami, so we lived down there for a while and I pretty much have been in Florida ever since.  But during the summers I've come up and I played in New England once I turned professional.  Actually, I skipped all that.  I turned professional in '89, I think was my first year, and I've always come up to New England to play for at least a month or two, because there are a lot of good tournaments up here.  I played the Massachusetts State Open, which is probably one of my favorite events, you know, as far as many tours go.  And that's pretty much how I ended up here.  I just planned it around my scheduled that I knew I'd be here, so I planned on doing the four spotter, and as far as major victories or anything like that, I won the Massachusetts Open, the Maine Open, Cape Cod Open three times and, you know, a lot of little mini-tour events that you guys never heard of.  


Q.  How many years have you actually been on the PGA TOUR? 

PETE MORGAN:  Is my fourth event.  My third event this year, all through Monday qualifying.  I'm not a TOUR member.  


Q.  Being back in New England did you have a big following today? 

PETE MORGAN:  Not today.  I think they're coming in tomorrow.  


Q.  How many cuts at these other events? 

PETE MORGAN:  I played the Honda Classic and the Bell South in Atlanta.  I missed both cuts, Honda by one and Bell South by four.  


Q.  What was the other event you played? 

PETE MORGAN:  CVS back in '94 on a sponsor's exemption.  


Q.  Weren't you a North Atlantic player a couple times? 

PETE MORGAN:  Yeah.  


Q.  Do you remember when that was? 

PETE MORGAN:  Last year.  I can't remember.  I know last year I was a leading money winner and player of the year, all that stuff on the North Atlantic Tour.  


Q.  How old are you? 

PETE MORGAN:  35.  


Q.  Would you be playing this week in the North Atlantic tournament down the road?  

PETE MORGAN:  I would have been there today if I hadn't four spotted on Monday, we'll see how it goes.  I'm going to leave my schedule open for next week right now and see how the rest of this week goes.  


Q.  What did you think when that putt went in on the last hole? 

PETE MORGAN:  Damn, that was a good putt. 


Q.  How much money have you won so far in 1998? 

PETE MORGAN:  I don't know, probably somewhere around 20,000.  Not on the PGA TOUR, but just on the mini-tours and -- 


Q.  Starting in January? 

PETE MORGAN:  Yeah.  Yeah.  Probably for the whole year, probably about 20,000. 


Q.  Where had you been playing earlier this year? 

PETE MORGAN:  I played a lot of little mini-tour stuff in central Florida, you know.  I kind of stayed close to home.  And I've been here in New England for almost a month now, and I've played actually one North Atlantic Tour event, Cape Cod Open, and then the Massachusetts Open.  


Q.  Pete, can you talk about the chip-in again? 

PETE MORGAN:  The chip-in?  


Q.  Yeah?  

PETE MORGAN:  My eight iron T-shot is the par three, 11.  It went left fringe.  I had about 30 feet and, you know, I'm a little excited out there in the second hole still trying to get the jitters out of my system.  I hit it solid, but I just hit it too hard, and what I felt was too hard, but it just -- it had such good line right in the center, hit the pin and went straight down, probably about 30 feet.  


Q.  How many times have you played this course before? 

PETE MORGAN:  Once.  


Q.  Do you remember what year that was? 

PETE MORGAN:  Yesterday.  Actually, I only got nine holes in yesterday, before the Pro-Am, and I played 14 holes on Monday after all the rain, and that's it.  


Q.  Where is home in Florida?  

PETE MORGAN:  Valrico, Florida, just outside of Tampa, about eight miles east.  


Q.  Pete, why do you think this is happening now, couple of Monday qualifiers?  Before this you've had great success at a lower level, come close to getting the TOUR card a couple of times.  Seems to be a difference this year. 

PETE MORGAN:  Yeah, I think I'm getting more comfortable in the bigger events.  I mean, throughout my career I haven't played a lot of TOUR events, and I think my concentration is just getting better on the golf course where I can block out things where in my first couple events I notice everything what was happening around me.  Now I just try and concentrate on the golf course and stay focused on that.  


Q.  Did you think you were playing in Hyannis today?  

PETE MORGAN:  I tried to go through my normal stuff.  I said it's just a nine iron, hit it like a normal nine iron.  Nothing different than any other nine iron you ever hit, just hit it naturally, normal.  


Q.  Have you attempted to qualify for the PGA TOUR school? 

PETE MORGAN:  I've done the TOUR school eight straight years.  I made it through first stage every year.  And I've only made it through second stage once, and that was '94 for the '95 year, and then I missed the cut in the the final stage and ended up a conditional NIKE TOUR player.  


Q.  And you went through of the last year? 

PETE MORGAN:  And missed it at the Hombre in Panama City in the second stage.  


Q.  What keeps you going? 

PETE MORGAN:  My wife is a big inspiration to me, she keeps me going.  She keeps telling me it's going to happen.  


Q.  Is she here today? 

PETE MORGAN:  Yeah, she's outside guarding my daughter who's going to be two in August, so she's a handful.  


Q.  Did she say anything to you after you came off the 18th? 

PETE MORGAN:  Way to go.  


Q.  What's her name? 

PETE MORGAN:  Karen.  


Q.  With a K? 

PETE MORGAN:  Yeah.  


Q.  Kid's name? 

PETE MORGAN:  Kristin with a K.  


Q.  E-N or I-N? 

PETE MORGAN:  I-N.  


Q.  Who are you staying with up here?  Do you have family here? 

PETE MORGAN:  I'm staying at the Radisson.  Actually, I stayed with my brother in Amherst, Mass which is only about an hour away Monday night.  


Q.  What was going through your mind as you finished the round, were you conscious of your score? 

PETE MORGAN:  Yeah.  I was trying to get to six, I really was.  Just -- and trying not to make a bogey at the same time, but I really wanted to get the six, really wanted to be in the lead, just to see what it felt like.  Like I said before.  


Q.  Have you thought about how you're going to approach tomorrow?  There's still a couple more days left.  

PETE MORGAN:  I don't want to think about that yet.  


Q.  What was your score in the qualifier on Monday? 

PETE MORGAN:  69, three under. 


Q.  Describe how you feel sitting there right now.  

PETE MORGAN:  Ah, just, um, a little relieved, actually to accomplish something I've always wanted to accomplish.  


Q.  All right.  Any other questions for Pete?  


End of FastScripts....`            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT