UBS HONG KONG OPEN
December 11, 2016
Sam Brazel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
CHUAH CHOO CHIANG: Sam, tell us what's going through your minds after that one and a half hours that you've had.   
SAM BRAZEL: I'm still in a little bit of shock.  Yeah, no words really.  There's some seriously good names on that trophy, and it great to be part of it I guess.  A lot of history at this event.  A lot of great history at this golf club, and been great to play well this week and be part of that.   
CHUAH CHOO CHIANG: You played some of your best golf on the back nine and you looked so calm all day.  Tell us, how were you feel inside?   
SAM BRAZEL: To be honest, I was a bit of a nervous wreck.  But I've got some good procedures going at the moment, just smiling and trying to have fun.  It seems to be working.   
I think my golf game is in pretty good shape at the moment, and it's been fun to play this well.   
CHUAH CHOO CHIANG: Looking back now, the shot into 18, that must really rank really high up in your life right now.   
SAM BRAZEL: It does.  It was kind of unexpected.  I was trying to take it over the middle of the bunker at the front of the green there and just play safe really.  Hit it a little bit thin and a little bit right, but we'll take it.   
The satisfying part was the putt.  Been working pretty hard on my putting, and just nice to stand there and roll one in the middle when it really counts.   
 Q.  What was the biggest win of your career before this and did you ever in your heart of hearts think one day you could still make it to this level and win at this level?  
SAM BRAZEL: I've never won a four-round tournament and this is my first.  Some would say that's a big start.   
Yeah, look, I learned my trade playing Pro-Ams back in Australia, and I think that's been a great grounding.  You pretty much learn to grind out every shot and every day and I think it's held me in good stead.   
My game has been steadily progressing the last three or four years, especially since gaining my Tour card here in Asia.  It's been a great proving ground, I guess.   
I certainly didn't expect to be in here this afternoon, but thoroughly impressed that I am (laughing).   
 Q.  You spoke yesterday about how you felt nervous to start with, and then after you got past the first hole, you relaxed into it.  Today the first tee shot didn't start well but you were able to save par.  How big of a turning point was that, even though it was early in the round?  
SAM BRAZEL: It was huge.  I was a little nervy on that first tee shot.  Hence, the ball flight there.  But no, I've been wedging it really nicely of late.  So yeah, just sort of tried to get myself a number in there.  Was lucky enough to hit a nice shot and make the putt.   
 Q.  You said about trying to smile; what is it specifically you've been working on?  
SAM BRAZEL: I'm just trying to enjoy every moment of it, and this week's been real easy to enjoy.  The crowds, the amount of kids that are around watching golf this week has been great.  I think the event organisers have done a great job in including the kids, and it's just fun to see that stuff.  Makes it easy to enjoy as a player like myself.  We all come up through those ranks and yeah, it's been fun to be part of the Hong Kong Open this week.   
 Q.  Just like to ask, with all the years it's taken to get to this point and everything you've been through, how does it feel to win today?  And secondly, where do you see your career going from now?  
SAM BRAZEL: Feels damn amazing.  I don't know what else to say.  I'm speechless.  What a win.  I don't know how else to explain it.  I feel very privileged to be playing here, first of all, and then ecstatic to win I guess.   
As far as where this takes me, obviously I might be playing a few more events in Europe next year, and we'll see where that takes me.  Yeah, what else do you say.   
 Q.  You were so cool on the back nine, so how do you do that?  And the second question is, are you shopping in Hong Kong and what is your Christmas gift?  
SAM BRAZEL: The back nine, I might have looked calm on the outside but I'm not sure I was all that calm on the inside.  But I just tried to keep smiling, keep making fun, making it fun out there.  Speaking to my caddie a lot.  It was fun.  I just tried to keep having fun on the back nine, and was watching the crowds and what they were doing.  It was nice to get a few cheers and a few claps.  They were very supportive.  It's great to see crowds like that at golf tournaments.  It's been great fun.   
I was supposed to be on a 9.30 flight back to Australia tonight but I don't think I'll be making that night, and probably for good reason.  I could do some shopping, depending on when my flight is arranged to be I guess.   
 Q.  You played the last two days with Rafa.  Obviously he's been looking for a win for four years himself.  What was it like playing with him, and did you speak with him on the way around?  
SAM BRAZEL: Rafa is a great fella to play with.  He plays very nicely.  Got a great golf game.  I think he got unlucky a couple of times.  I didn't really feel like it was ever a battle between two of us.  I was just trying to have fun.  I was trying to enjoy the moment and enjoy the experience of it all.  Rafa made that pretty easy for me.  I hope I made it pretty easy for him, as well.   
But no, great fun playing with Rafa.  He'll win in the near future, I have no doubt.   
 Q.  Could you elaborate on the story of your clubs?  You said you just got new bats.  Wonder the story behind it?  
SAM BRAZEL: Yeah, look, companies change equipment from time to time.  I really loved the golf ball that Callaway produced, the si3 ball.  They discontinued that earlier this year, so we changed golf ball.  Then in an attempt to try and control the ball flight and see what I wanted to see, we changed iron shafts midway through the year and I really struggled.   
I could feel my golf game building, but I really couldn't control the golf ball the way I wanted to.  My rep, Adam Bilbe, from Callaway said, "I've got that sorted."  And here's the proof.   
 Q.  When did you change?  
SAM BRAZEL: This is the fourth tournament with the new irons.  Yeah, it's just been slowly building.  Amazing.  He does a great job.   
 Q.  Terrific scenes on the 18th when your fellow pros came on to celebrate and doused you with beer and they were saying how delighted they were for you and I think you maybe shed a little tear when you thought about family back home, as well and I know you've had some tough times in your personal life.  Do you have a message for the friends and family who have stuck with you through thick and thin?  
SAM BRAZEL: Just say thanks for all the support over many years (tearing up).  Bit of a tough ride, but we're here.   
CHUAH CHOO CHIANG: I think we will leave it at that.  Sam, many congratulations once again, UBS Hong Kong Open Champion.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT