UBS HONG KONG OPEN
December 11, 2016
Sam Brazel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  UBS Hong Kong Open Champion, how does that sound?  
SAM BRAZEL: Sounds bloody great, I'll tell you.  It's been a long time coming.   
 Q.  You said you weren't playing well at the start of the week.  What happened?  
SAM BRAZEL: I've been playing good.  It's just, yeah, it's been a bit of a struggle with the old irons and my man, Adam, set me up with a new set of bats, and it's all sort of turned around.  This is the fruit.   
 Q.  What about that shot into 18?  That's got to be the greatest shot you've ever hit, isn't it?  
SAM BRAZEL: I wouldn't say I got it out of the middle but I'm pretty stoked where it finished, I'll tell you.   
 Q.  And what about your schedule, this changes everything, doesn't it?  Looking forward to coming over to Europe and playing a few of those?  
SAM BRAZEL: Love to come over to Europe.  It will be a great privilege.   
 Q.  A word for your family back home and your friends?  
SAM BRAZEL: This one's for you guys.   
 Q.  What a thrill to win it in style, eh?  
SAM BRAZEL: Oh, very lucky.  That wasn't the greatest second shot in there, but it ended up good, and the rest is history.   
 Q.  There have been some marvelous shots across the way over four days, but talk us through 12 and 13.  
SAM BRAZEL: 12, I just had a nice number there.  Hit a nice shot.  Rolled down the slope pretty close.   
13, I got a little unlucky on the lay up.  Ran into a fairway-filled divot, like a sand-filled divot and was lucky enough to make a 25-footer there.  Yeah, it was a thrill.   
 Q.  You said there was a bit nerves into the third day.  How was it to start the final day?  
SAM BRAZEL: I think I still had the same nerves on the first tee, but I settled in pretty quickly today.  It wasn't as bad as yesterday.  I had a great playing partner in Rafa.  I was stoked to play with him for the last two days.   
 Q.  You looked like you were made to be out there.  You look relaxed and assured.  Were you?  
SAM BRAZEL: Just having fun.  It was a thrill to be out there the last few days.  Yeah, I hope that continues.   
 Q.  You know so many people are going to write, 'journeyman player,' but you've graduated now.  So what's this thought, after years of hammering away?  
SAM BRAZEL: Oh, just enjoy it while I've got the time now and work out a schedule for next year.   
 Q.  Have you always been positive, knowing this day would come?  
SAM BRAZEL: Not always.  It's been a grind at times but yeah, this is great.   
 Q.  Is it life-changing, European Tour Membership?  
SAM BRAZEL: It's just a win that's amazing.  Yeah, awesome.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT