UBS HONG KONG OPEN
December 10, 2016
Sam Brazel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You must be thrilled with that?  
SAM BRAZEL: Yeah, was fun out there.  Started a little nervous on the first but I guess that's the situation you're in.  Felt the nerves a little bit at lunch time.  Just sort of grounded out and it was fun out there.   
 Q.  The back nine, that must have been some of your best golf all year?  
SAM BRAZEL: Close, yeah.  I've played really nice in the third round of Aussie PGA and that sort of sparked me on a little bit.  So, yeah, it's nice to be putting it together on the back nine on a Saturday.  So yeah, it's good fun.   
 Q.  Sort of uncharted territory for you, a tournament of this magnitude.  How have you approached tomorrow?  
SAM BRAZEL: Same as every other day.  Just one shot at a time and try and enjoy the moment.  Yeah, just plug away.   
 Q.  You said you're feeling a bit nervous.  Why was that, just because of the position you were in?  
SAM BRAZEL: Just a little bit nervous on the first.  We all get a bit nervous.  It's good to have nerves I think.   
 Q.  Are you confident going into the final day with your first chance at winning?  
SAM BRAZEL: I won't speculate on that.  I'll just go play one shot at a time and see what happens.   
 Q.  What's going to be important for you to do tomorrow when you step on the first tee?  
SAM BRAZEL: Try and control the nerves a little better than I did today.  Just enjoy it.  Enjoy the atmosphere of it all and just take it all in.  It's been fun.   
 Q.  When did you sort of get the nerves under control today?  Was it a particular shot or a particular hole?  
SAM BRAZEL: I think it was pretty much over after the first hole.  Just hit a bit of a slack tee shot there on the first in the bunker, but that's the way it goes.  It's golf.   
 Q.  Did today help you get a little bit for tomorrow, playing in the last group again with Rafa?  
SAM BRAZEL: I think it will.  I had a great day with Rafa out there today.  He's a really nice bloke and got a hell of a golf game.  It will be interesting to see how it pans out tomorrow.   
 Q.  What would it mean for you, if you do take it on tomorrow?  
SAM BRAZEL: It would mean the world.  But once again, there's 18 holes to go and I'm just going to approach it one shot at a time and try and enjoy the moment.  Just learn from the experience I guess.   
 Q.  It must be quite exciting, playing with a Ryder Cup player?  
SAM BRAZEL: Yeah, it's great to be in the lead of a tournament I guess.  Just enjoy it and enjoy what it is.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT