NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 22, 2014
Jason Tsirtsis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 149 POUNDS
  (Northwestern) 
  
  
THE MODERATOR:   National champion from Northwestern, Jason Tsirtsis, 149 pounds.  
   
 Q.   Jason, talk about the overtime.   
JASON TSIRTSIS:   I felt like I was a little timid in the beginning.   I know Oklahoma State's dangerous with their outside offense in general.   So I was trying to neutralize that and get to my ties in my offense.   Wasn't quite clicking.   
And then towards the end of that period, I just kind of got a good flow going where I knew what to do to get to my offense.   And it finally clicked.   Six minutes and 30seconds with them.   Had to go to overtime and felt confident from creating those flurries.  
   
 Q.   You've been in a lot of big events, finals, everything like that.   As a freshman coming in, and you're out in the center mat at the NCAA Tournament, did you even have a sense of what that was like, or were you just focused that it was just like it was any other match?  
JASON TSIRTSIS:   I don't think it's hit me yet that I'm an NCAA champ.   I get to keep that claim for the rest of my life.   It's what you work for as a wrestler ever since you set your goals as a little kid.   
So being out on that center stage, I don't think the big aspect of importance really hit me.   I don't think it still has.   But I think that's a good thing.   I went out there, I was confident, and I wasn't worried about it being NCAA Finals.   I was just focused on winning that match and wrestling tough.  
   
 Q.   At what point this year did you envision this actually happening?   Because you lost at the Midlands.   Did that do anything to hurt you?  
JASON TSIRTSIS:   No.   I said this last week when I won Big Tens, it's been one person that's been perfect in this collegiate wrestling, and Cael Sanderson, and he's the only one to do it.   
So losing at the Midlands, I lost in like a two‑week span.   All my losses were in that two weeks.   And it's not going to be a positive incline.   There's going to be bumps in the road.   And ever since I got to Northwestern, I told myself I was going to win this tournament.   2014, I've got it written everywhere in my room.  
   
 Q.   Your big bro was to 36‑0 in high school, won four state championships, and I think he keeps you right underneath his wings.   How influential has he been for you?  
JASON TSIRTSIS:   You know, his guidance, especially after he finished his college career, really, I can't attribute enough to it.   I think he really helped me in high school to make me reach that next level, and he still helps me every single day, still today.   So he's a big aspect in my wrestling.   Very crucial.  
   
 Q.   Along with that, you kind of talked about that in the previous interview after semis.   Rewriting a little chapter in the family history, how much of a redemption or how much of a feeling is that for you?  
JASON TSIRTSIS:   You're going to get me emotional.   A lot of downfalls with‑‑ not downfalls, I should say, but Alex had really high expectations, and he never quite reached them.   And it was tough for all of us.   
And to do that tonight, it feels good.   It feels good for me and my family, my coaches, my teammates.   
   
 Q.   Big time champ.   Some in the wrestling community look at that accolade and wonder why a 5 seed.   Did you feel slighted or disrespected at any level and did that motivate you and give you a chip?  
JASON TSIRTSIS:   I looked at it and was like, whoa, I'd thought maybe I'd get a higher seed.   But I didn't let it affect me at all.   To win this tournament you've got to beat the best guys in the weight class.   So I felt confident doing that.   I did it yesterday, and I had a tough one in the Finals today, and I got it done.   
So this whole season our coaches do a great job preparing us for this type of grind and having five tough matches in a row.   It's obviously tough, but I was prepared for it.   
   
 Q.   So what's the deal with freshmen?   We've talked to two of them since the tournament started.   Obviously you guys must be coming in and getting really good real quick.   
JASON TSIRTSIS:   Yeah, I think it has to do with previous college wrestlers giving back.   And I think those type of guys are running either elite freestyle youth clubs or they're going back coaching high schools.   And I think those type of things benefit the kids because they're getting top‑notch technique and mentoring as a 15‑, 16‑, 17‑, 18‑year‑old, so they're ready to jump in and make a big impact on this level.  
   
 Q.   And to follow up, has it been a goal of yours to be a four‑time champ?   And are you ready now that you've won it as a freshman for people to start asking you about that?  
JASON TSIRTSIS:   No.   I think that‑‑ yeah, I always say I want to be a four‑time NCAA champ, but you've got to be a one‑time NCAA champ before you can be a four‑time NCAA champ.   And I think I was looking at that picture a little bit more than I gotta win this one to be a four‑timer.   It wasn't what I was thinking.   I was just focused on getting this title.  
   
 Q.   Not to bring out the emotion, but you talked about a tough one when Alex was here.   You had to be pretty young when he wrestled for Iowa.   How can a young person absorb that?  
JASON TSIRTSIS:   I was in fifth grade when he was a freshman.   And then I was a freshman in high school when he was a senior year.   And so it wasn't like I was too immature to where I couldn't understand it.   Especially when he was a senior, I had a little bit better understanding.   And I think that played a lot into me developing because I saw‑‑ I was able to learn from his mistakes.   And I think growing up, that helped a lot.  
   
 Q.   Are you going to jump right into the freestyle scene and take a couple days off and then get right back into training?  
JASON TSIRTSIS:   Yeah.   The nice thing with Northwestern is we're on trimesters, and we actually get a week off after this for spring break.   So it's pretty nice.   And maybe late next week, but I was thinking once I got back on campus, start training for freestyle right away.  
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT