COMMERCIAL BANK QATAR MASTERS
January 27, 2017
Jorge Campillo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Windier today; how well did you play?  
JORGE CAMPILLO: It was windier today.  I played solid.  Missed quite a few fairways, but they were in play all the time and I putted good.  So it was a good round.   
 Q.  How hard is it to judge how far your irons are going to go from the rough here?  
JORGE CAMPILLO: It's tough.  You just hit it and hope, basically.  Maybe you take a club less than you think and hopefully the ball jumps out of the rough.  The ball is jumping quite a lot and the greens are firm, so it's tough when you miss the fairway.   
 Q.  Would you consider yourself a good wind player?  
JORGE CAMPILLO: Yeah, decent.  I'm a decent player in the wind.   
 Q.  So you'd like a breezy weekend?  
JORGE CAMPILLO: Yeah, it would be nice if it's windy, yeah.  I like the tougher conditions.  I get a little impatient when the golf course is playing easy and everyone is making birdies.  You miss a few putts and then you get impatient.   
 Q.  You must be pleased with that round out there today?  
JORGE CAMPILLO: Yeah, it was a tough day.  I'm happy obviously the way I played and the way I scored today.   
 Q.  You had back-to-back birdies on 17, 18.  How important was that going into the back nine?  
JORGE CAMPILLO: Yeah, well, 17, the wind was down off the right a little, so it was a little pitching wedge in there, and I hit it about six feet and I made that.   
18 was playing tough into the wind off the left.  I played a decent hole, but the first shot wasn't so good.  I was maybe ten metres off the hole.  I made a good putt there.   
 Q.  Conditions out there very different to yesterday.  How was that?  
JORGE CAMPILLO: Yeah, it's a tough course today.  The back nine plays a little easier than the front nine.  But yeah, it's not easy.  The greens are getting harder and the wind is getting stronger, so it's going to be a tough afternoon I think.   
 Q.  So it's nice to get in from that morning?  
JORGE CAMPILLO: Yeah, obviously if the wind stays like this, it would be nice.  Because last week, I feel like the wind always dropped in the afternoon.  But I don't think it's going to drop today.   
 Q.  Nice position going into the weekend?  
JORGE CAMPILLO: Yeah, obviously.  This is a great position to be in going into the weekend.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT