TROPHEE HASSAN II
April 28, 2019
Jorge Campillo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TOM CARLISLE: Congratulations on your first European Tour win.   
JORGE CAMPILLO: Thank you.   
TOM CARLISLE: It's been 20 minutes or so.  Can you sum up your emotions?   
JORGE CAMPILLO: It's hard to describe.  It's been a long road.  Grateful, but it's been way too long.  Way too many hours of work since I was a boy to today.  I'm just proud that I can say I'm a winner on The European Tour.   
TOM CARLISLE: Can you sum up your emotions throughout the day?  Some highs, some lows, and then a very long wait on 18.   
JORGE CAMPILLO: Yeah, I didn't start as good as I would like, missing shots.  I wasn't hitting it good and I didn't have my A Game with me.   
But after making that four-metre putt on 7, it was a 10-footer on 7, and after that, I played solid I think.  I putted great, and I did what I have to do to win the golf tournament.   
So after that, it was great.  Tough start, hang in there and good finish.   
TOM CARLISLE: You've had quite a few near misses over the last few weeks.  How much of a motivation was that for you?   
JORGE CAMPILLO: Yeah, I have way too many near misses.  This was my best chance to win.  You know, I wasn't this close ever, just have the lead on 18, so I have to grab it, and I was able to do it, so I'm proud of that.   
 Q.  How did you motivate yourself these years since you've turned pro, and to go on and go on and go on and keep looking for the first win?  
JORGE CAMPILLO: That's a good question.  You know, I just love the game.  I love competing.  Most people say, maybe I'm not a winner, but I was when I was an amateur.  It was a matter of time.  I think I proved it today.   
I just love the game.  I love winning, I guess, and I finally did it, so I'm quite happy now.  Hopefully I can win more from now.   
 Q.  What was your approach last night heading into this final round?  
JORGE CAMPILLO: I have a good sleep.  You know, I was concerned about the Spanish elections, so that kept my mind busy.  I was thinking about that.  I didn't think much about playing golf.   
So when I got to the golf course, I was a little nervous, but I was calm.  I feel strong for some reason, and I don't know, I think I don't know why, but I feel -- I was feeling strong coming the last few holes.  So I wasn't nervous at all.   
 Q.  Was there any one of the near misses that hurt particularly, which might have motivated you?  
JORGE CAMPILLO: Maybe, I don't know, way too many second places.  Maybe Malaysia last year was really close.  Qatar, actually, this year, I was two off the lead, but I feel like we make some mistakes coming in.  I wasn't able to win the tournament.  That got me to try harder next time.  I think Qatar was the breaking point for me to win the next golf tournament.   
 Q.  You seemed very calm, I was surprised, on 17, with all the pressure and the stress.  What made the difference?  Because you were in the rough on 16 and were short a little bit on 17, lots of control, or what?  
JORGE CAMPILLO: Yeah, I was trying to keep my focus.  I was enjoying it, but at the same time, I was trying to be focusing.  I know I was going to miss some shots because I wasn't hitting the ball great.   
On 16, fortunately I got a decent lie, a decent shot in the rough and I hit the best shot of the day.  Somehow, you know, just the ball pitched in the exact spot that I wanted.  You know, maybe a few weeks ago, that ball pitch in the bunker and I lose the golf tournament again.  But this time, it went over the bunker and I made a great putt.   
On 17, I got lucky I guess.  The ball didn't get to the bunker, so the chip was a little easier than the bunker shot and I played a great chip and a great putt, and I was able to close it on 18.   
I just tried to keep my focus.  You know, I don't look at that many of the people around me, and I think I did that.   
 Q.  Bravo.  We've been following you years after years playing The Challenge Tour, right.  
JORGE CAMPILLO: For one year, yeah, I did.  A long time ago.  It was a long time ago but I did on The Challenge Tour back in 2009 early in my career.   
 Q.  And you've been on The European Tour for?  
JORGE CAMPILLO: Eight years.   
 Q.  It's surprising to have a win not that far from Spain, and just some water between Morocco and Spain.  Do you feel at home here?  
JORGE CAMPILLO: Yeah, I say before, I feel almost like home.  It's, as you say, it's just a few kilometres away from home.  The weather is similar.  The golf course is great.  I love coming here to Morocco.  I think it's a great venue and a great golf tournament, so it just feels like home.   
 Q.  Did you talk to the Spanish lady before coming to the course today?  
JORGE CAMPILLO: Which Spanish lady?   
 Q.  The winner.  
JORGE CAMPILLO: Yeah, I saw her when I got to the prize giving, and she was -- she just tell me congrats.  I didn't know she had won.  I couldn't even see the ladies leaderboard, but I'm glad she did and I'm proud of her and I'm proud of the Spanish golf today.   
TOM CARLISLE: Jorge, congratulations.   
JORGE CAMPILLO: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT