BELGIAN KNOCKOUT
May 19, 2018
Jorge Campillo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Toughest match of the day?
JORGE CAMPILLO: Yeah, it was, I started bad.  I hit bad tee shot on 10 and on 13, I lost my ball there.  So it was tough.
I missed a 3-footer, as well, on 14.  I still had a chance, even though I was 3-over after five, but three birdies in a row, and great par on 18, so I'm proud the way I finished.
Q. What was going through your mind when you were 3-over through five?
JORGE CAMPILLO: Well, I was just one behind.  So you know, sometimes you've got to do what you've got to do to win.  It's match play and I was one behind, just one back, keep playing.  I have a few holes to go.  That's what I felt.  That's what I did.
Q. Talk us through how pleased you were after that five holes?
JORGE CAMPILLO: Well, I wasn't very pleased -- after the last five, on 13, I made birdie with my second ball because I lost my first one, so that was a great bogey, I guess.
Silly 3-putt on 14, and then on 15, I hit a great shot.  I made a good putt there and 16, I hit the green, 2-putt.  And then on 17, he hit a great shot there.  I thought it was one feet from the hole but it really was two metres.  On 18, I hit a good chip, so it was a good finish.
Q. What would you put the first five hole down to?
JORGE CAMPILLO: Yeah, I guess it was lack of concentration and tiredness, both.  It's not easy, you get up there and starting all over again, and I started bad.  I made a couple bad swings.  Maybe I lost my concentration there.
I don't know, I finished good, so that's all that matters.
Q. The challenge of tomorrow, how much are you looking forward to that?
JORGE CAMPILLO: I'm looking forward to that.  At least the worst I'm going to finish is fifth now, so it's a good thing. Adrian is playing great.  He's a great match-play player, so it will be a good match.
I've been playing good all year, so hopefully I can come play like the last five holes here tomorrow and win, and if not, next week hopefully.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT