MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 6, 2018
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. (No Microphone.)  
PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, it was a rough day. I thought the course played great of the I thought the conditions were challenging, but I thought everything about it was a good fair test. You play well you can shoot under par and I don't know what's happened the last couple of days, it's a little disappointing, because I've been playing so well this year, to play like this. But it's disappointing, it is my favorite tournament of the year and it's a rough couple of days.   
   
 Q. What happened on 9?  
PHIL MICKELSON: I just hit the tree. There was plenty of a gap, I just pushed it trying to run a 2‑iron down there in front of the green and get up‑and‑down, salvage par. I was even for the day, 2‑under for the Tournament, and I just thought it wasn't a hard par, I didn't think, if I just chased one down by the green. But it, I pushed it into the tree and it went in the bushes and made triple.  
   
 Q. Was that unplayable or was that a lost ball?  
PHIL MICKELSON: I found it, but it was in the bushes and then the drop would have been worse, so I played it from where I was at.   
   
 Q. You said you were fractionally off yesterday and today, same spots or worse?  
PHIL MICKELSON: I thought we had kind of fixed it and I was pretty excited. I had a pretty good warm‑up, I was hitting it great. Then on the first hole I blocked it again and I was a little worried the rest of the round and that was kind of the case, I didn't quite have it again. But the conditions here were a little more severe and so the misses were magnified.   
   
 Q. Did it surprise you how windy it was out this morning because I think last night the forecast didn't call for as much wind?  
PHIL MICKELSON: I don't know ‑‑ no, I wasn't really surprised by it, it was just a little more challenging. But I thought that's, gosh, I thought the pins were fair, I thought everything about it was fair, I thought you could score, I thought if you played well you could get after it today. I just didn't play well.   
   
 Q. What are the emotions of this place, when you want to play so well and it's just not happening?  
PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, it's disappointing, there's a fine line between wanting it so bad and then also letting it kind of happen. As you get older you feel a little bit more pressure each one because you don't feel as though you have unlimited number of events. So given how well I was playing heading into this, I certainly put a lot of pressure on myself to perform this week and get it, because I know the opportunities here are lessening here and especially given as well as I've been playing, I thought this was a great year, a great opportunity.   
   
 Q. How frustrating is it, as the round's going on, the numbers are going in the wrong direction, how frustrating is that?  
PHIL MICKELSON: Well, it's difficult because you keep fighting, you keep thinking, gosh, if I just get a birdie here or get one more back or fight in there and then I just kept making bogeys. It's not a course you can really force birdies, it's a challenging test.   
   
 Q. On 12, was that a mis‑club, mishit?  
PHIL MICKELSON: Poor execution. I'm trying to hit a little cut in there and if anything if I cut it and miss it left of the hole it's going to be a little bit short and be fine. And I just pulled it. I just flat out pulled it. Same thing, same exact shot on 11. I know I can't miss it over there right and I tried to hit a little cut in there I just dead yank it and it's just poor execution.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT