FORD CHAMPIONSHIP AT DORAL
March 4, 2006
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  (Inaudible) after that roller coaster?
PHIL MICKELSON:  I was surprised it went in the water.  I saw it land in the middle of the green and I couldn't believe it went in the water.  It was an interesting day.  Obviously it wasn't what I had hoped.  But the great thing about today was it was not the last day.  There's one more day tomorrow.

I started to hit the ball a little bit better than I did front side, and if I can just get a couple of those putts, maybe I can make a run.
Q.  Talk about the pairing with Tiger and the galleries and the fun of the day?
PHIL MICKELSON:  It was a very enjoyable day.  It was a fun day and I thought after I birdied 12, if I could just get two more coming in, it would be a good, solid day.

The wind, I thought it was a tough round and anything under par was well played.  Gosh, I thought I had a good chance to shoot there in the 60s.  A couple bogeys coming in hurt obviously and I'll have to try to get that straightened out for tomorrow.
Q.  Do you feel like Tiger opened the door on nine a little bit with the double?
PHIL MICKELSON:  Again, I'm not thinking too much about what he's doing.  I know that obviously he's playing well, but because it was not the final round, I wasn't really concerned.  I should be now.  I'm four back, and I've got to make a run tomorrow.  But what really hurt was the couple bogeys coming in.  If I can just get one or two birdies, I'm right there.
Q.  Yesterday you mentioned the wind and how it was not a factor; today it was, was that what hurt your game?
PHIL MICKELSON:  Today the defense of the golf course was back up, the wind.  It was much more difficult and hard to get the ball close.  A lot more wayward drives, the wind just takes it off line.  A lot different golf course than what we saw the first two days.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
PHIL MICKELSON:  It was kind of a long wait, and I'm going to go right there.  There's a left to right wind off the water, 15 minute delay, I'm going to go right, and at least I can play it.  Unfortunately the next ball went in the water.
Q.  If I'm not mistaken, 16 last year in the last round, I think you both bogeyed 16 trying to lay it up there and today it got you again there; what is it about that hole?
PHIL MICKELSON:  Well, it sets up opposite of my shot dispersion.  I'm either short left, long right, and the hole works long left, short right.  It doesn't fit.  I have to hit a perfect tee shot there when I'm not driving it at the green.  It's a tough fairway for me to hit and I didn't think I hit that bad of a shot and it went into the bunker.  Normally not that bad of a spot though, but sitting down a little bit and I caught it heavy.
Q.  You've done well coming from behind, do you think you're playing well enough to win this thing tomorrow?
PHIL MICKELSON:  Well, it's going to take a low round.  I shot a couple of low rounds the first couple of days.  I just need a couple of those putts to go and I think a little bit of momentum and I think I might have a low round in me.
Q.  What is your opinion about Camilo Villegas?
PHIL MICKELSON:  He's an incredible player and very likely to win this year and will be a strong presence on the PGA TOUR.
Q.  And you're playing with him?
PHIL MICKELSON:  I don't think I'm playing with him tomorrow but I look forward to playing with him in the future.  I've heard some great things about his talent.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT