FBR OPEN
February 4, 2006
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
Can you talk about your round?  It seems like you might have left a couple shots out there.
PHIL MICKELSON:  Ya think?  I had fun day, though.  I didn't score that well.  I made a lot of mistakes, but I had a fun day.  What a great Saturday.  It looks like record crowds, and it was just a fun day to be out playing.
Q.  Given the fact you feel you left a lot out today and yesterday, do you like your position?  You know, you're certainly within striking distance.
PHIL MICKELSON:  Well, I don't really envy my position.  I think that I'm quite a ways back.  But if a really low round is out there, you never know what might happen.  I'm certainly going to be trying to do that and get off to a quick start and see if I can try to peel off eight, nine, ten birdies and try to make a run.  Even with that, I'll still need some help from the leaders.
Q.  You were really optimistic coming in this week because you felt like your game was getting back to where it should be.  Were there just a few little things?
PHIL MICKELSON:  Well, I thought that it started to click.  I've actually been hitting the ball pretty well.  I've been driving it better.  I had one mishap on 11, but I've hit a lot of good drives.  I don't feel very good on the greens right now.  I really haven't felt comfortable, haven't made too many putts.  I've got to work on that.  I've been trying to take a little extra time before each round, but it hasn't quite settled in yet, and I don't anticipate that it will next week at AT & T with the greens not being that great.

I feel like the putting just isn't there yet.
Q.  You look at the leaderboard and there's some 20 somethings that have no fear.
PHIL MICKELSON:  Year, we've got a lot of young players.  It's a pretty exciting time on Tour because the last couple of years the more established players in their 30s and 40s playing really well, but we've got some guys coming out of college in their 20s that can move it out there a long ways, overpower courses and really shoot so low numbers.
Q.  You mentioned the crowds at 16.  You've been kind of a hero there.  I mean, they took off after you left.  They didn't even give Villegas any crap about his lime green pants.  Just talk about how it doesn't even seem like controlled chaos anymore.
PHIL MICKELSON:  I just love it.  It's such a cool hole, and it's really a neat feeling for me to play that hole.  It's something I don't ever experience on Tour.  It's a hole in and of itself.  We just don't have anything like that, and it's an incredible feeling.  I love playing it.
Q.  Did you notice the "I love Phil" shirts this year?
PHIL MICKELSON:  Yeah, I didn't know where that came from.  I saw it today for the first time and I thought that was pretty flattering.
Q.  Did you get one?
PHIL MICKELSON:  No (laughter).
Q.  Is it a tough atmosphere to focus on the shot at hand or is it second nature?
PHIL MICKELSON:  I don't think it's difficult to focus on the shot at hand.  People are very respectful when it's time to hit a shot; everybody is quiet.  I didn't think it was a problem at all.  No, it's great.
Q.  (Inaudible).
PHIL MICKELSON:  I haven't been looking at the leaderboard too much so I didn't see who was up there.  Anybody in double digits certainly has a great chance tomorrow.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT