THE PRESIDENTS CUP
September 23, 2005
Chris DiMarco
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  You guys started off all square, down two and then came back to halve the match.
CHRIS DiMARCO:  We did.  We just didn't make that many putts out there today.  We had a lot of good chances, and, you know what, we just gutted it out.  We hung in there and stayed strong.  We knew coming down the stretch we could have a chance.  We knew we could get back in this thing.  We knew when we were 2 down with five to go, if we could get a halve a point, it's like a win.  So we were very happy.
Q.  And you made birdies on 15 and 17.
CHRIS DiMARCO:  Yeah, I hit a good putt on 14 that spun out on me and I hit it to where it was a gimmie where I didn't have to putt it.  The putt on 17 was nice; any time you can make it with that much pressure is nice.
Q.  Are you guys satisfied with half a point?
CHRIS DiMARCO:  Yeah, I've got to think we are, being 2 down with four to go.
Q.  How about this guy in the clutch?

PHIL MICKELSON:  He is unbelievable.  He's one of the toughest guys we have on the Tour.  I'm proud that he's on the American side and I'm proud to have him as my partner.  The birdies on 15 and 17 were two of the most impressive birdies.  He played very strong and.
Q.  Are we going to see you guys the next set of matches?
CHRIS DiMARCO:  I hope so.  We're feeling pretty comfortable together.  It means a lot to have somebody like Phil say that about me.  We don't like to lose, I can tell you that much.  I never like to lose.
Q.  How did you manage to turn that around?

PHIL MICKELSON:  You have to ask this guy right here.  Chris DiMarco made two of the most impressive birdies.  The shot he hit on 15, unreal, to almost make it.

The putt he made on 17 was stellar because had he not made that, Michael Campbell would have had a 12 footer to win the match.  He knocks that in and we go to the 18th hole even.

So I think, what a great comeback, and I am so proud of this guy.  He is so tough down the stretch, one of the toughest  guys down the stretch head to head, and I'm just glad I don't have to do that.
Q.  You seem to relish this situation both in the Presidents Cup and Ryder Cup.
CHRIS DiMARCO:  Yeah, we don't get to do this much.  Any time we get team competition, we have partners, it's fun to have partners.  It's fun to have help out there and it's fun.  It's just such a great atmosphere, it just brings out your best IN YOU.  I mean, for two days, I was about as nervous as I can be out there.  I tell you, it's fun nervous; it's what we play for.
Q.  We've seen a massive shift in momentum, like we see in Ryder Cup and Presidents Cups all the time, what causes those?
CHRIS DiMARCO:  A putt here, a putt there.  We are on American soil.  It's contagious, we hear cheers, we go, "that's an American cheer," and it pumps you up.  It's great to be on our home soil and the fans are into it and that's a good thing.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT