BOOZ ALLEN CLASSIC
June 12, 2005
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
A hell of a shot on 6.  Everybody is talking about it.
PHIL MICKELSON:  Well, it was a shot that at the time I thought might catapult my round.  That shot got me back even par.  It was a bit of a gamble going through the trees and was able to get on the green.  Unfortunately, I didn't take advantage of later on in the round.
Q.  Are you thinking about Pinehurst already after signing the score card?
PHIL MICKELSON:  Yes.  After a couple of bogeys on the back nine.  I'm looking forward to next week, it's a fun week.  I had such a great week this week Congressional. We had a great shoot out.  It looks like it could be anybody's game, but it looks like Sergio is going to pull it out.
Q.  Do you think after last year at Shinecock, the USGA will be kinder with the course layout and the way the course is playing this year?
PHIL MICKELSON:  I hope not.  I hope they make it as ridiculous as last year.  I think I have as good a chance as any.  I would love for them to do what they do.
Q.  Talk about the memories at Pinehurst with you and Payne.
PHIL MICKELSON: It's a very emotional place for me, because of my fond memories with Payne Stewart, and one not so fond memory is losing the Open by a shot.  That and the Ryder Cup in '99 are something I reminisce about.  There was a statue there when I went to play a practice round and it brings back memories of all the times I got to compete against him and get to know him.

The saddest is what Tracy and heir children, Chelsea and Aaron, have gone through.  And the joy of having the birth of my first child the day aft event.  Every day I go back to Pinehurst I think of my daughter's birth.
Q.  You just played a week of golf here at Congressional, how much are you looking to play this again as an Open course?
PHIL MICKELSON:  2011, we'll come back here for the U.S. Open.  I'm curious to see how differently it plays from this year, a PGA Tour event, how differently it plays from 1997, the U.S. Open Championship.  It's a great golf course.  You can make it as part as we would to make it.

We played this week with soft greens.  This is a week we can make birdies.  But in the U.S. Open I don't expect that to be the case.  You can make this course as hard as you want.  You can make 8, 10 over par the winning score, if you wanted to.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT