WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 4, 2018
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Just not getting enough momentum early in the round for you?  
PHIL MICKELSON: I played all right, I just didn't get it going early and I don't know what to say.  It was fun to be in contention, I had a great time coming down the stretch.  I didn't like, obviously, the last hole, but other than that it was a pretty solid week and that was the only over par score.  I hate finishing like that, but it's fun to be in contention here, it's fun to come down the stretch here.   
 Q.  Going into Pebble Beach next week, your thoughts on where your game is at going up to one of your favorite spots and why is it one of your favorite spots?  
PHIL MICKELSON: I think it's gotten better each week so far this year and it's a golf course -- it's a collection of courses I really like.  I've played well on them in the past and I'm hoping to build on this week's performance.  There's no reason why I shouldn't.   
 Q.  Was there any single element from your game that felt different or off today versus the first three days?  
PHIL MICKELSON: The first half I was fractionally off.  I was getting a little bit of lateral movement and that is a, that is not a good thing for me.  When I kind of picked up on it the back nine I hit a lot of good shots.  I started to drive it really well starting on 13, and that was kind of the turning point was 12.  On 12 I started to hit some good shots.  Unfortunately I just didn't get the putts going in early enough to make the run there at the end, but it was still fun coming down the stretch making a putt on 16 and things like that.   
 Q.  How do you make sure that the driver continues to be a strength?  
PHIL MICKELSON: I'll keep working on it, but there's no reason why it shouldn't just get better and better the more comfortable I get with it.  From a technical standpoint it's where I want it to be, but I still have -- it's very easy for negative thoughts to creep in when I've driven it poorly for so many years.  But if I can start to control my thoughts, I think I'll drive the ball really well this year.   
 Q.  I know there was some frustrating shots out there, but I'm going to choose to remember the par -- the birdie putt you made at the 16th.  That had to be a thrill.  
PHIL MICKELSON: That was a cool moment there.  It's just a cool feeling.  What a great hole.  I ended up birdieing it three times this week and it was just an amazing experience every time and I really enjoyed watching that putt go in.  Unfortunately it was a little too little too late, but to finish, birdie 15, 16, 17, that was fun.   
 Q.  I've been with you since CareerBuilder.  I've seen your game improve a little bit step by step.  You got to have a lot of momentum heading into AT&T Pebble Beach Pro-Am.  
PHIL MICKELSON: I think so.  I think that my game's gotten better each week, my focus is getting better each week and I'm going to a golf course that I've played very well on in the past.  So I'm hoping that it continues to build on this.  This shouldn't just be a one week deal, I should be getting better and better as the weeks go on.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT