THE RYDER CUP MATCHES
September 16, 2004
Jim Furyk
Phil Mickelson
Chris Riley
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.
Talk about being paired with Tiger first group of the morning.
PHIL MICKELSON:  I love the pairing of Tiger and myself.  It's been put up to us to get the U.S. side off to a good start.  We are going to have a very touch match, though, with Colin Montgomerie having such a great career in the Ryder Cup, and Padraig Harrington being such a solid player and doing so well in the majors.  We certainly have a difficult match.  But it's up to us, and hopefully we will be able to get the U.S. our first point.
Q.  Did Hal give you any indication of who you might play with, or when did you get your first indication you might be playing with Tiger?
PHIL MICKELSON:  I think I had a decent idea for some time, and have been given plenty of preparation, or plenty of time in advance to know that Tiger and I are going to be playing together.  I think we are both very excited about it.

Q.
Talk about playing with Stewart?

CHRIS RILEY:  I'm really excited about playing with Stewart.  He's obviously one of the hottest players in the world right now.  I haven't played too much golf, so hopefully I'll help him out and make some birdies.

We're playing Luke Donald and Paul McGinley and that's going to be exciting.  I've played a lot of golf with Luke and he's playing well.  I think it will be a great match.
Q.  You and Luke both playing in the Ryder Cup for the first time; an even match for you?

CHRIS RILEY:  Yeah, it's an even match.  This is McGinley's second and Stewart's second, and me and Luke are rookies.  Should be a close, exciting match.  You look at all of these matches and they are pretty incredible.  We'll see what happens tomorrow.

Q.
Talk about playing with David tomorrow and kind of your match up there with Sergio.

JIM FURYK:  Well, obviously, I like my partner.  I think no matter who you talk to, they are going to like their partnership.  David and I share a similar-style game.  We're playing two tough competitors.  Lee is a good friend.  Sergio is a tough competitor.  We need to go out and play real well tomorrow and we want to do well.
Q.  First time that you've played together in the Ryder Cup?

JIM FURYK:  It is.  I'm excited about it.  David played real well at The Belfry and the Ryder Cup, and he's a great competitor; has a real good record in this.  You know, I'm looking forward to it.  It's a long three days of practice and I think all of the guys on each side are probably chomping at the bit ready to get out there and get this thing started.  So I'm excited about tomorrow.

Q.
When did you get a first indication from Hal that you might be playing with Phil right off the bat?

TIGER WOODS:  He told us last night what the game plan was.  We're fine with it.  We're totally excited about it.  We're geared up.  Can't wait to get out there and play.
Q.  Can you talk about just playing Colin and Padraig out there?

TIGER WOODS:  Well, I think they are two wonderful players.  It's going to be a tough match, so hopefully we can go out there and play well and team up well and make a bunch of birdies.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT