THE RYDER CUP MATCHES
September 17, 2004
Chad Campbell
Davis Love III
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.
Davis, Hal said the pairing of you and Chad was stronger than new rope.  Did that inspire confidence or perhaps some added pressure? 

DAVIS LOVE, III:  No, we knew we had to come out and play hard.  Darren got off to a good start and we didn't.  And it was disappointing that we didn't make any birdies in the first nine holes.

We just got behind.  And when the weather is like this and you're behind on a tough course, it's hard to catch up.  And they did what they had to do.
Q.  Were you nervous out there?

CHAD CAMPBELL:  A little bit at the first.  It's expected, first Ryder Cup.  But after you play a few holes you get settled in.  I tried to make some putts and the putts weren't falling.
Q.  Is it like any other golf tournament or like playing any other major something totally different when you're playing the Ryder Cup?

CHAD CAMPBELL:  It's a little different.  A little different feeling.

It's nice to get the first match out of the way, even though we didn't come out the way we wanted, but it's good to get that out of the way.

FastScripts by ASAP Sports ....
Q.  Shades of The Belfry starting out.  Colin made every putt he looked at on the front side, Padraig made a long one, you guys got behind and you could never catch up.
PHIL MICKELSON:  Well, the European Team had a great morning.  I think they swept us, or we have one match we're still fighting on.  But those things happen.  They birdied six of the first eight.  We needed to come back and do the same.  Tiger counted with some birdies there, and we were able to keep the match close throughout.  A couple of birdies on the back and they ended up winning.

It's one match.  We're going to go out here this afternoon and try to make up some ground and go into tomorrow not quite as far back.
Q.  Are you and Tiger going to be an item this afternoon or do you know yet?
PHIL MICKELSON:  You have to ask Captain Sutton.  I know, but you have to ask him.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT