U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 20, 2004
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Joining us now, 2-under par for the championship, Phil Mickelson.
Q.  Three birdies in four holes on a golf course that was kicking the teeth out of everybody else out here?
 PHIL MICKELSON:  I don't know what to say about making birdies, because I hit good shots and still had to make tough putts and was able to.  It's not a course where I was thinking birdie on any particular hole, it just so happened that I ended up making a lot of putts.  It was almost enough, just not quite.
Q.  (Inaudible).
 PHIL MICKELSON:  Well, after I birdied 16, I had a 1-shot lead, and I thought this was going to be the day.

And 17, you know, I don't know what to say there.  I hit an easy putt, hit it easy, because I knew it was quick.  But it still shouldn't have gone six, seven feet by.
Q.  You thought the wind flipped just before the bunker shot?
 PHIL MICKELSON:  Not really, the putt was downwind.  When the wind gets a hold of it on these greens, it takes it.  It just wouldn't stop.
Q.  What was the distance on that hole?  What were you trying to do?
 PHIL MICKELSON:  I don't know what it was to the hole.  It was 166 to the front edge, which is where I was trying to fly it.  I hit 6-iron.
Q.  (Inaudible).
 PHIL MICKELSON:  I didn't see he doubled 14.
Q.  Bogeyed 14, I'm sorry.  (Inaudible).
 PHIL MICKELSON:  I just saw him make par.  I saw the scores, it was hard to tell what was going on.
Q.  Were you aware he birdied 16?
 PHIL MICKELSON:  I saw him birdie 16.
Q.  (Inaudible).
 PHIL MICKELSON:  No, that would be fair, yeah.  It wasn't a hard shot, I had a good lie, but the green, we saw it bounce up in the air, it just took it.

I certainly didn't want to be long, but I thought I hit it high and soft enough not to do that.  But I don't know what it hit; it was awfully firm.
Q.  It kind of shot on you?
PHIL MICKELSON:  Yeah.
Q.  That's almost impossible on a bunker shot?
 PHIL MICKELSON:  My cleats didn't go in the grass.  I kind of walked on top of it there.
Q.  (Inaudible).
 PHIL MICKELSON:  Absolutely, yeah.  I thought under par -- I thought even par would win it.  I thought today the way guys were coming back that even par would probably win the tournament.
Q.  (Inaudible).
 PHIL MICKELSON:  It's just as disappointing as it was thrilling to win a Masters, sure.  To come very close, to play so hard for 72 holes and play better than anybody but one guy is disappointing, sure.
Q.  A lot of players said it's unfair.  Do you agree with that?
 PHIL MICKELSON:  You know, I don't know what to say.  I played the best -- some of the best golf of my life and still couldn't shoot par.  So you tell me.
Q.  (Inaudible).
 PHIL MICKELSON:  It was about eight feet, I would say.
Q.  Did you get an adrenalin surge after 6?  Did you have to stop and kind of refocus?
 PHIL MICKELSON:  Not really, no.  No, I actually didn't hit a bad shot on 17.  My notes say the bunker was fine, it wasn't that hard of a shot.

I thought I hit a pretty good shot.  It just kicked a little too hard and left me a downhill putt, which was tough.
Q.  (Inaudible).
 PHIL MICKELSON:  Well, I knew I needed to make birdie to have a chance, so I wasn't really thinking about anything else, other than trying to make birdie.  And there again, I thought I hit a good shot in there, just hit too hard.
Q.  (Inaudible).
 PHIL MICKELSON:  Well, it broke right-to-left, but the wind was left-to-right, and so I played it straight and it -- the wind took it more to the right than I thought.  If there was no wind, it would have broke left.
Q.  (Inaudible).
 PHIL MICKELSON:  A little bit of both.  The wind certainly took the first putt.  It broke quite a bit the other way, left-to-right, and the wind was right-to-left.  I missed it about four to five inches high.  It affected it quite a bit, and it kept taking it down the hill.  I knew the wind was going to affect it, I just didn't know how much.
Q.  (Inaudible).
 PHIL MICKELSON:  Very possibly, yeah, I would say.
Q.  Is that any consolation?
PHIL MICKELSON:  Oh, you know, I'm not disappointed in the way I played at all.  I just would have liked to have won, that's all.  But I can't worry about the fact that somebody played better than me, because Retief played some great golf.  I thought 2-under would have won by two, maybe three, and it just didn't.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT