BUICK CLASSIC
June 13, 2004
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PHIL MICKELSON:  It was great yardage, yeah, it was terrific.  It's one of the best meals I've had (laughter).
Q.  (Inaudible).
PHIL MICKELSON:  Yeah, I thought that this was really a good round for me to play because it was a fight to keep my patience.  It's very much what we'll see next week at the U.S. Open.

We saw the leaders come back.  It's playing very difficult.  They're very tough holes just to make par and almost impossible to make birdies on a lot of holes.
Q.  Do you feel when you walk out of here right now -- (inaudible).
PHIL MICKELSON:  Well, Mark, I needed to play here because I certainly felt throughout the week my rust.  I felt rusty on certain shots.  I just wasn't as sharp throughout the 72 holes, and I think this was a huge help for me in my preparation for next week's tournament.
Q.  (Inaudible).
PHIL MICKELSON:  Well, I'm really looking forward to next week, and this week was great preparation.  We did get some wind, not quite as strong as we'll probably see next week at Shinnecock, but we had a lot of wind this week, tough, firm greens, very difficult pin placements, and I thought this was a great way to get ready for next week.
Q.  (Inaudible).
PHIL MICKELSON:  The key will be driving the golf ball at Shinnecock.  Obviously you have to do everything well there, but it starts with the driving.  If you don't drive it well, you're knocked out, and then it goes into short game.  You're not going to hit every green there, but you get up-and-down and hit it in the right spot, you can make a lot of pars at Shinnecock and keep your round under par, which usually wins the tournament.
Q.  Having won a major, is that going to make a lot less of those questions?
PHIL MICKELSON:  Well, it will make Tuesday afternoon's press interview easier, yes.
Q.  (Inaudible).
PHIL MICKELSON:  Come on, you wouldn't do that to me.
Q.  Is it a confidence factor now that you did do it normally more than it would be?
PHIL MICKELSON:  It's very fun for me to look forward to majors now.  I really -- I've always enjoyed the challenge of trying to win them, but I really look forward to them now because they are not an obstacle to overcome, they're a challenge to try to attain.
Q.  Was the pace today as tough as yesterday?
PHIL MICKELSON:  It wasn't bad.  We played threesomes today.  We weren't lightning by any means, but it was fine.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT