THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 25, 2004
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.
Satisfied with today, Phil?
PHIL MICKELSON:  Well, I thought I played well today, a lot of good shots, I was pleased with that.  I felt the score probably didn't reflect how well I actually played.  But a lot of that was due to not getting the ball on the greens.  But I hit a lot of good putts, I didn't read them.  I didn't match the putts up with the speed right.  And this is the first week where the green speed really picks up for the year.  We haven't had this type of speed earlier in the year.  And here, next week in Atlanta, in Augusta it will be very quick.
Q.  How receptive did you feel the course was for scoring today?
PHIL MICKELSON:   I feel the setup is as good as I've ever seen it, and I think it's evident in the scores.  We have a couple of really low scores, and a couple of really high scores, and a nice mix around par.  If you play well, you can shoot well under par, and if you don't it eats you up.
Q.
What happened on 8 there, did that derail you a little bit?
PHIL MICKELSON:  No.  I missed about a four-footer.  I didn't hit a good tee shot, but a good wedge five feet above the hole, and just missed it.  I played left edge, and it broke more than I thought.
Q.  Did you see the combined 8 over for Davis and Tiger?
PHIL MICKELSON:  I didn't see that, I didn't see the scores.
Q.  One was 5 over and the other was 3 over.  Does that surprise you?
PHIL MICKELSON:  It doesn't surprise me.  Maybe it does for those two.  Those scores don't surprise me for anyone out here, because how difficult it is with the wind, the way it swirls.

I hit a shot on 8 that ended up 50 yards off, the wind grabbed it.  If you don't hit it solid or if you miss it out here, the misses are very magnified.
Q.  (Inaudible).
PHIL MICKELSON:  I chipped in on 17, that was a tasty shot.  I was standing there on the railroad ties, not much of a stance.  I could get at it, though, and hit a great shot that was going about five feet by, and it hits the pin and goes in.

That was nice to get the round going, and I followed it with a birdie on the next one.
Q.  That was the balance beam you talked about?
PHIL MICKELSON:  There you go.
Q.  What did you hit into 17?
PHIL MICKELSON:  I tried to hit a little 9.  It was not the right club, I should have hit a wedge, but I tried to take a little off the 9.  I got lucky and it stayed up.
Q.  How much of your foot was hanging on the railroad tie?
PHIL MICKELSON:   About half of it, and the ball had to be back in my stance because I couldn't get at it.  The ball was actually in the hazard.
Q.  What did you hit?
PHIL MICKELSON:  Lob wedge.
Q.  Could you talk about Tiger's cut streak and where in your mind that thing should belong in the lexicon of sports in terms of impressive feats?
PHIL MICKELSON:  Well, it's a very impressive feat.  I don't know what to say about it.  I think that as great a streak as it is, though, it will always have an asterisk of the 98 AT&T, where he was 8 over par when they canceled it.  But to make that many cuts every year, and not miss a cut every year for how many years, that's pretty stout.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT