FBR OPEN
January 31, 2004
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Phil, for joining us for a few minutes here in the media center.  A round of 68 today puts you in the final pairing on Sunday here in Phoenix at a place where you're loved by the fans.  Why don't you make a couple comments about your round today and then we'll go into questions. 

PHIL MICKELSON:  Okay.  I shot 3-under today, didn't make a bogey.  I thought I struck it very well.  I thought I putted very well from six feet in, but my speed as I got outside of six feet on the greens was -- I struggled with, and consequently didn't make any good birdie opportunities, other than short ones.  That kind of sums it up.  I just didn't make enough birdies today.


Q.  Have you been involved in a Sunday since you won the playoff here?

PHIL MICKELSON:  In the last group or two, not that I can remember.


Q.  So the last time was --

PHIL MICKELSON:  I've had a couple Top-10s, but I don't think I was in the last group or two.


Q.  You're going to be in the last group tomorrow.  You've got to be the heavy people's choice, so to speak.  How does that work for you?

PHIL MICKELSON:  It feels great.  I mean, it really feels great.  Standing on that 16th tee box and walking up to the green with all the people surrounding it and the ovation, it's been an incredible feeling.  I love it.


Q.  I notice you ran into the tunnel there.  Did you have to kind of get psyched up to go through that hole?

PHIL MICKELSON:  No, it was just uphill.


Q.  Ricky Barnes got some ASU chants.  You didn't hear any U of A chants, did you?

PHIL MICKELSON:  No.


Q.  Looking at some of the names that are really right there within three or four shots, what do you expect tomorrow to be like?  Do you think it's going to be like a real shootout?

PHIL MICKELSON:  Well, the guys that go off first are going to have a chance to make birdies first.  They're going to make a run.  There will be somebody at 11-under who birdies two of the first three or four holes and gets right there, and it'll be up to Chris and Jonathan and myself to be patient and make birdies ourselves.

I would expect that the winning score will be somewhere around 18-under par.  I think that would be a pretty good guess, and guys that are at 11-under could easily shoot 7-under tomorrow and win the golf tournament. 

Same thing at 10, you might have to go a little bit lower, shoot 7-, 8-under par there, but that seems to be very doable.


Q.  How satisfying is it for you two straight weeks to be in this chair going into Sunday and talking about winning the golf tournament?

PHIL MICKELSON:  Well, it feels great.  It feels great to be in contention, it feels great to be in the last group.  Last week I was tied for the lead.  Today I'm a shot back, and I love that feeling of being in contention, that opportunity to compete for the championship.  It's a great feeling.

Last year I just didn't experience that.


Q.  You talked about your speed from outside of six feet.  Was there anything -- was it the conditions today or what was it?

PHIL MICKELSON:  Nothing to it.  I spent a lot of time this morning practicing my short putts, and consequently, from six feet in I did very well.  I just didn't spend enough time getting my speed down.  And so tomorrow I've got a couple of drills that will help me with that and I'll work on my speed.


Q.  You said you continue to be delighted with the ball striking. 

PHIL MICKELSON:  Yes, I felt like I drove it very well.  I'm driving the ball very confidently, and my iron play seems to feel very good.  There's only really one poor shot I felt I hit, and that was on 12, and I was able to get up-and-down for par, so it didn't hurt me. 

Yeah, it feels really good.  The key for me tomorrow will be getting off to a quick start.  I'll have to get a couple of birdies early, and I haven't done that the last few days.


Q.  You seem to bring out the emotion around here more than any other player.  I mean, there's just example after example, plus the Super Bowl is going to be a dog tomorrow, so there's going to be a lot more people than usual out here on Sunday.  You bring out a lot more people.  How wild do you think it's going to get around here tomorrow because it's got some potential to be pretty wild?

PHIL MICKELSON:  I hope it's like it has been the past ten years.  It's a very unique experience from a player's point of view to play the last five holes with the fairways lined with so many thousands of people and have that type of response.  It's just a great feeling.  Again, we don't have enough of it.  It's just a cool feeling from a player's point of view.


Q.  It's almost like being at a football game?

PHIL MICKELSON:  Feels like it, yes.


Q.  Are they getting close to roaring before impact at 16, some guys?

PHIL MICKELSON:  I don't know.  I was only there for my group.  I hope not, but I'm not sure.


Q.  Who are you picking tomorrow in the other sporting event?

PHIL MICKELSON:  No idea.  I just hope it's a close game.


Q.  If you are leaving putts short, longer putts short, can you share your drill with us?

PHIL MICKELSON:  Well, first of all, I left a couple short on 13 for eagle.  I left it five feet short. 

On 14, I left it three feet short. 

But the very next hole, on 15, I rolled it six feet by.

On 17, my speed was so far off it rolled two and a half feet by, three feet by, and it never had a chance to catch the break. 

The one on 18, I hit right on line and didn't get enough speed.  You saw it die at the hole.  I needed to roll through it about a foot past the hole. 

My drill will be to -- well, it's just a little deal where I try to get all of my putts to stop within 17 inches past the hole, so I'll just keep hitting them until I get so many in a row.


Q.  From how far would you start?

PHIL MICKELSON:  20 feet.


Q.  And you want them all to stop within --

PHIL MICKELSON:  17 inches.


Q.  You put a tee there or something?

PHIL MICKELSON:  Yes.


Q.  Why 17?

PHIL MICKELSON:  Well, 17 is kind of the mathematical number that Dave Pelz and I -- Dave Pelz came up with, not I, but that I've bought into, that if a putt goes that far past the hole it has the optimum speed to catch the hole.  If you start going a little too fast, then you're susceptible to lip-outs.  If you're going slower you're susceptible to little indentations.


Q.  Chris DiMarco was in here talking about how he plays more by feel, he doesn't have a coach or a psychologist and doesn't like to workout.  I wonder, because it seems the trend so much the other way, does that strike you as interesting that someone is having success that way, too?

PHIL MICKELSON:  No, it doesn't, and I think the reason is that for years the Senior Tour players, when they were playing the regular Tour, fitness was never really a big part of it.  Gary Player was the only one that really took it seriously.  Certainly things have changed, and it's hit in college golf and it's reaching junior golf now.  But when Chris and I, we're about the same age, when we went through college it wasn't a real big part of our regime.

JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Can we go through your three birdies.

PHIL MICKELSON:  Birdied 8, driver, 7-iron to six feet.

Birdied 14, driver, 4-iron to 30 feet, two-putt.

Birdied 15, driver, 6-iron, two-putt.

JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  How long was it? 

PHIL MICKELSON:  30 feet.


Q.  How many times have you gone for the green on 15?  All three times?

PHIL MICKELSON:  I went twice.  Yesterday the wind was in and I didn't go for it.  Today it was a 6-iron.  The first day it was a 4-wood.

JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thanks, Phil.



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT