THE PRESIDENTS CUP
October 1, 2017
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You've been a part of so many of these, some good, some bad.  Never went out with that kind of lead before.  What was it like playing with that kind of lead?  
PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, it was really weird to have a stress-free Sunday singles.  We're always really feeling it in the team room and we're always really focused.  We're usually going through Saturday night for the next day, how we are going to attack it, going through a game plan.  It was a totally different feel.  This is a special team.  There's not only a lot of great talent here, but they are getting the best out in each other and it's exciting to see and exciting to be a part of.   
 Q.  This was your 100th match in international team competition.  
PHIL MICKELSON: Is that why I was so tired at the end of the match?   
 Q.  How much longer can this go on?  
PHIL MICKELSON: I'm not sure, but next year going to Paris and being part of The Ryder Cup Team, it's been 25 years since we won a Ryder Cup over there.  That would be a real big goal of mine.   
I've got a lot to work hard on, look forward to and a lot of goals to achieve to make that team and be a part of it, but I think that would be really a career moment for me if we could go over there and bring back -- keep The Ryder Cup.   
 Q.  Now the young guys call you Grandpa, right?  
PHIL MICKELSON: I didn't know that.  That must be behind my back, yeah.  Must be.   
 Q.  Now with this new nucleus of young guys, the youth movement, what do you see as the future for the American Team?  
PHIL MICKELSON: We have a dynamic here that is different than I've seen, and that is these young guys are not only great players, fiercely competitive, but they have a quality that's taken me decades to acquire, and that is they are genuinely happy for each other's success.  That type of support amongst each other, even though they are competing against each other, brings about a really special energy and dynamic to this team.   
 Q.  Do you feel any pressure to perform?  
PHIL MICKELSON: I have really felt the pressure, especially early on, especially going out.  I had a great partner in Kevin Kisner, who was able to keep me relaxed, get the best out of me.  We played very well together.  We are a good pairing.   
This has been a fun, special week.  I've never been a part of a team all these years that's this talented and gone out and lit the course up like this and had such a big lead going into Sunday singles.  This is a stress-free day for us and that's just something we've never had.   
 Q.  On Sunday at Gleneagles, you were vocal about wanting to make some changes.  Do you feel like the changes you wanted are starting to go in the direction that will help the U.S. contend and be better prepared and have more opportunities to be in these competitions?  
PHIL MICKELSON: I think when you look at what Davis Love did for us last year and Captain Stricker this year, and each one of those guys having their support system with Tiger Woods and Fred Couples and Jim Furyk and Davis Love, these guys keeping a lot of continuity from year-to-year, we are starting to see, these guys play their best, and they are already so talented; that when they play their best, we get weeks and performances like this.  It's pretty special.   
 Q.  Obviously Ryder Cup in Paris next year, I know that's something that definitely continues to be on your radar?  
PHIL MICKELSON: That really is a special goal for me.  It's been 25 years since The Ryder Cup has won a Ryder Cup over in Europe and I've never been a part of one of those teams.  It would be a special career moment for me if I were able to be a part of that team and retain the Cup.   
 Q.  What does this week mean to you?  
PHIL MICKELSON: It's been a special week.  These events are my favorite weeks of the year.  These team environments, the support system, getting to know the guys, spending time on and off the course, being able to partner; they are memories, experiences, that I cherish for a lifetime.   
I'm so appreciative and honored to be a part of this team, especially when you look at how talented our young foundation is with these guys.  Not only are they great players, but they are really quality individuals.   
 Q.  What is the footprint in your opinion left here by this team here this week?  
PHIL MICKELSON: Well, I think it's that these guys, not only are they great players, but they are playing some of their best golf with each other.  The support system that each one of them provides is getting the best out, and there's a dynamic to this team where these young players are not only competitive, not only do they want to beat your brains out but they also are genuinely happy for each other's success when they don't win.   
That's a quality that we haven't had and that brings about a whole different feel on the team, and it's that support from each other that is getting the best out of them because there is no other way to explain this type of performance.   
 Q.  I know you want to be on that Paris team next year, but at any point walking down the fairways or with the guys in the team room, whatever, did you reflect on this week and over the two decades-plus that you've been representing the red, white and blue?  
PHIL MICKELSON: I haven't yet.  There will be a point where I look back and I remember, cherish, talk about all the experiences and memories that have been created but right now I'm still trying to make more.  I have not been a part of a Ryder Cup victory in Europe.  It's a big goal of mine.  We have the players, the foundation, and the direction; I want to be part of that team next year.  I've got to bring something on the golf course; I'm going to go work hard on my game this off-season.  I'm going to add some tournaments to try to get up on the list and make the team on the points.  That's a big goal for me, so we'll see if I can do it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT