MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 13, 2003
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  (Inaudible.)
PHIL MICKELSON:  I didn't think in those terms, but I thought that it was one of the best up-and-downs I've ever had in my career. 

Q.  How long would you estimate that putt was?
PHIL MICKELSON:   90 feet maybe. 

Q.  How far did you have with the driver?
PHIL MICKELSON:   Not sure.  I just knew it was a cut driver.  I didn't really look at the yardage.  I wasn't really trying to get it on, I was trying to get in the bunker and make par. 

Q.  (Inaudible.) What did it feel like out there?  Did you feel like there was an edge there?
PHIL MICKELSON:  I didn't worry about what the other guys were doing.  I played very well.  I thought if I got to 5- or 6-under I thought that that might do it.  And heading in to today I thought a 68 would do it, that it might very possibly do it.  And two guys ran away.  They ran away with it, Weir and Mattiace.  And I can't control what they do, but I thought that I played well today and I'm very pleased with 68.  And so I'm not going to worry about whether or not it was enough or not.

Q.  Given the layoff and what you've been through with the day -- I know you wanted to win, but how do you feel?
PHIL MICKELSON:  Well, heading into the week I was very calm and I felt very ready to play well.  And I am feeling very comfortable into the Major Championships now.  I just know that if I just go out and play I'm going to have a shot on Sunday and it's fun to have a chance at winning.  And I played very well this Sunday.  I think it was the best round that I played on Sunday.  Probably the lowest round I've ever shot.  And so I can't complain. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
PHIL MICKELSON:  That's better than finishing fourth, I guess, but there's really no consolation out there. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
PHIL MICKELSON:  I think on Sunday it's the lowest Sunday at Augusta.

Q.  (Inaudible.)
PHIL MICKELSON:  Maybe, yeah.  And it wasn't playing easy.  We saw a lot of high scores today.  We had some tough pins, quick greens.  So it wasn't playing easy, it just makes Len's round that much more impressive, and Mike Weir's play as well. 

Q.  Are you rooting for a fellow lefty?
PHIL MICKELSON:  I'm just rooting for a good finish.  I have good friendships with Len and Mike.  And a win would be great for both of them.  I'm trying to be bipartisan, I guess it is.  Nonpartisan, I guess.

Q.  Looking ahead, where do you go from here?
PHIL MICKELSON:   I'm going to take the next two weeks off and spend some time with my family.  We're still adjusting.  Our baby's three weeks old today.  So we're still adjusting.  And I'll spend the next couple of weeks and then hopefully they will come out at the Nelson.  I'll play the two weeks prior.  I'll play New Orleans and the new tournament, Wachovia, so I'll be working on my game the next couple of weeks.



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT