THE PRESIDENTS CUP
September 26, 2017
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  If you think back over 23 straight Cups, how hard is it do you think to accomplish that in the future?  You've got young guys now, but when you look at your health, consistency, how hard do you think that'll be?  
PHIL MICKELSON: Gosh, it's -- it's one of the things I'm most proud of, to continue to be a part of this, and one of the things I cherish the most are these events.  I think that it will be done, but it'll be done, I believe, because there's so many talented players that I believe will have the longevity.  But right now it's something I'm really proud of.   
 Q.  We talk all the time about the intensity of the Ryder Cup and maybe this isn't as intense.  Inside the locker room, do you feel any difference, or does it all feel the same?  
PHIL MICKELSON: I do think there is a more relaxed, fun attitude by both teams, but the U.S. side specifically I feel I can speak for.  But when Thursday comes and we tee off and we're representing our country, representing our teammates, representing ourselves, you feel it.  You feel that pressure.  I think it's a big reason why historically most people participate in a major or participate in a Presidents Cup or Ryder Cup before they win a major because you learn to deal with that kind of pressure.  But it's not obviously the case with everybody, but in general.   
 Q.  One more question about the Cups because you spoke about wanting continuity in both Cups a couple years ago, and you're having that with --  
PHIL MICKELSON: What do you mean continuity?   
 Q.  In terms of how you guys go about things, captains, assistants, et cetera.  But what about the players?  When you look at the fact you've got six guys in their 20s this year, can you form a core going forward that will make it even better?  
PHIL MICKELSON: Well, certainly when you look at Jordan Spieth, Justin Thomas, Rickie Fowler, Dustin Johnson, those four guys are going to be the nucleus of this team going forward for the next decade or two, and their leadership, their personalities, their camaraderie I think is going to be a real asset for our TOUR.  I think it's a benefit to play one of these every year, Presidents Cup, Ryder Cup.  We get the benefit and the opportunity to participate every year, and that continues to help our performance in the future.   
 Q.  Was it an advantage when you guys were losing the Ryder Cup, playing every year?  
PHIL MICKELSON: Well, we did well in the Presidents Cup, so it was fun to feel victory, and I think that it continues to build the camaraderie, and now that there's so much continuity from year to year on both teams, we continue to build and feed off of each year.   
 Q.  Does the international side need to win one of these things to generate the interest to keep this thing going?  
PHIL MICKELSON: I don't think so, no.   
 Q.  It's a weird question to ask you guys.  
PHIL MICKELSON: We're not there yet, no.  We feel it.  We know once the door opens how good the players are on the international team that could lead to more losses, so we've got to continue to be ready, play sharp, and play our best because if you look at the talent on the international team, it is strong and it is deep, and if we open the door and give them an opportunity, it will bite us.   
 Q.  Steve said earlier that that was one of his messages to you was to forget about what happened in the past; is that something you're trying to hammer in and maybe avoid some complacency or whatever since you have as a team done so well against these guys?  
PHIL MICKELSON: It is, it is.  It's actually important that we take the momentum that we've had, stay focused and play our best and continue to build off the most recent successes we've had the last couple years.   
 Q.  Are you involved behind the scenes like you were two years ago?  
PHIL MICKELSON: Not really because you look at the leadership that we have this year, it's really strong.  It's really deep.  You look at Captain Stricker, really quality leader, a quiet, sound leader, and when he delivers a message, it resonates.  You look at last year's Ryder Cup captain, two-time Ryder Cup Captain Davis Love is here, Tiger Woods is here, Jim Furyk is here, Fred Couples is here.  We have such strong leadership that really my role has been to not dilute their message.   
 Q.  You've represented your country many times.  You've heard the National Anthem played many times.  As a sports fan I wondered what the events over the weekend --  
PHIL MICKELSON: Well, I was on the Dan Patrick show this morning, and I was asked about this, too, and I said, look, we have social injustices in this country, and we should all strive to eliminate them.  We've made great strides over the years, but we've got a ways to go, and we should all strive to eliminate those.  But this week, I'm so proud to represent the United States, to play for my country, to play for my teammates and participate in this great event.   
 Q.  Do you support the way the athletes in the NFL --  
PHIL MICKELSON: I don't know how else to add to it.  I feel like I've answered that the best I can.   
 Q.  The rookies that are on this team, besides course knowledge, what can you tell them?  
PHIL MICKELSON: Well, if you want to call Justin Thomas a rookie, I get it.  It's his first time playing in a team event.  The guy is Player of the Year, he's won five times.  I ask more questions around him than I try to deliver anything.  The quality of players that are amongst that group that have not participated in these team events bring a great energy to this team.  I think they're a real asset.  I think that their excitement level keeps everybody fresh, guys like myself that have played in a bunch, it keeps me fresh and sharp and excited.  I think their energy is going to be a real plus for our team.   
 Q.  Is there a silver lining to not making the TOUR Championship last week, that you were able to do something golf-wise that you hadn't done before, even if it's just resting?  
PHIL MICKELSON: I was able to go home, spend time with my family and practice and try to keep my game sharp.  I'm going to be playing next week in Napa, as well, so it -- I tried to look at it as a positive, but make no mistake, I would have loved to have been at East Lake.   
 Q.  Is there a story behind those black pants?  
PHIL MICKELSON: Not yet.   
 Q.  Can you talk about the first hole, to have that be the first hole of each match is a pretty daunting hole for a starting hole.  
PHIL MICKELSON: It is, but if you can hit a solid tee shot there, you can get down to wedge in and make birdie.  It could very well be a birdie hole.  But the drive is critical, and so that's going to be a fun hole to start on.  If I play alternate-shot, it's unlikely that I will tee off on that hole.  (Laughter.)   
 Q.  Can you talk about the crowds this week?  
PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, they're the best.  The crowds here are the best.  They really are.  I think it's going to be a wonderful advantage that we are going to try to use and very well may need to bring out our best, to keep us going when we're down and to push us forward when we're up.  I think that the people here, the intensity and the sports knowledge of the fans here is going to be a real plus for us.   
 Q.  Will you see the internationals get more support this week because it's such a cosmopolitan city?  
PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, maybe.  I hadn't thought of it like that, but maybe.   
 Q.  What do you think of what they did with the re-routing here, making the 18th a par-3?  
PHIL MICKELSON: I like it.  It might be unusual finishing on a par-3, but I like how some of the great holes, which are 14, 15 -- the old 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, which are now 10 through 14, are being played every match just about.  I think that's a real asset.  You've got the great holes with the great views that represents what this city and this country are about.   
 Q.  About two years ago it was very, very competitive and very, very close --  
PHIL MICKELSON: It was.   
 Q.  How important for the future of this event do you think it is that it's again close and perhaps even the internationals take it home this time?  
PHIL MICKELSON: It might increase the interest, but that's not what we want as a team.  We want to -- we realize, again, how high-quality, great golfers are on the international team, and if they start to get some momentum, that could be a difficult thing for us to overcome, so we want to make sure we are sharp, we are ready, we play our best golf and build on our most recent successes and not have a setback.  We want to keep going forward.   
 Q.  What's behind your decision with Callaway?  
PHIL MICKELSON: I just think that -- as you guys may have seen, I signed kind of a lifetime deal with Callaway.  It eases my mind.  I love -- I think the products are the best on the market, but more than that, I love the direction of the company and the people I get to work with.  So to be able to continue my career is really a variable and uncertainty that gets eliminated and allows me to continue to play my best and strive to get my game back to where I know it can and should be.   
 Q.  Lifetime, how many years is that?  
PHIL MICKELSON: I hope a lot.  I hope a lot.   
 Q.  You were just asked, you made a point about Justin Thomas not really being a rookie.  Six rookies on the team, but does it feel like an experienced team in the locker room?  
PHIL MICKELSON: It doesn't feel like we have rookies other than their excitement to be here and their energy.  But Charley Hoffman has been out on TOUR, he's a solid veteran player.  Justin Thomas has got obviously one of the best years in a long time, and we could go down from Daniel Berger, who brings a real great attitude, a real great focus to the team and Kevin Kisner that, gosh, I just -- everybody loves being around him because he's so funny and entertaining.  So we have a great dynamic.  You go down to Kevin Chappell, how long he's been hitting it and striking the ball.  So we have really a good energy to us and an excitement and a focus, I think.  But again, we've got to be our best.   
 Q.  Are you as surprised that you're as excited to play in your 23rd as you were in your first, and why is that?  
PHIL MICKELSON: I think over the years you come to realize how you cherish these weeks, how I look at after the major wins, these are the weeks that I look upon and look back on and remember and have moments, have memories, have experiences that you share with others that you just cherish for your career and your lifetime.  It's brought me close to Zach Johnson, when two years ago we played together, Jim Furyk when we played down in Australia.  Going through these matches and these emotions and sharing the experience of these team events really brings you closer that lasts a lifetime.  So when we see each other every week thereafter, you just have a different friendship, a different relationship.   
 Q.  I don't know how well you know Justin, but did you kind of see this coming at any point?  Did you recognize early on that he had that kind of ability to rattle off that many wins and a major?  
PHIL MICKELSON: You knew when he started, when he won, the floodgates were going to open because he's won of the best iron players.  He really is a phenomenal iron player.  You watch how many shots he hits close.  He must have two to four tap-in birdies a round, and that's not counting the par-5s and such that he has eagle opportunities.  He's just hitting iron shots and tap in -- I'd say inside four or five feet two or three times a round, and he makes so many birdies that you can see once he won one he was going to reel off a bunch of victories, and his consistency in that high level of play is what's impressive.   
 Q.  Talk about this setting here in New York, what this means to you to be here in New York, how the fans truly appreciate you.  
PHIL MICKELSON: I think that this is a great opportunity for us to hold a team event here and really have a home field advantage because the people here are such great sports fans and so supportive of the United States and represents what this country is all about, but really supports their teams, and to feel that type of support can really propel us to victory, and hopefully will help bring our best golf out.   
 Q.  Does it feel bigger as you go and see the statue of liberty or in Manhattan this morning?  Does it feel bigger being here in New York?  
PHIL MICKELSON: You definitely feel the patriotism.  When we were at Firehouse 10 last night, you realized what the epitome of a great American is.  These guys are risking their lives to save others every day, and lost many colleagues and friends, not just in 9/11 but thereafter, and to have the opportunity to spend time with them, you feel the gravity of what this means and what you're representing, and as the tournament nears, as Thursday comes closer, you start to feel the pressure.  It's a fun pressure, but it is a pressure.   
 Q.  You mentioned Australia, just 2019 going back to Royal Melbourne.  Talk about that golf course a little bit.  
PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, Royal Melbourne is a special place, and I think this tournament is lucky to go back there.  I think that it's been a great host the previous two times.  I think it will continue to do so.  With so many strong Australian golfers on the international team, it's a great fit.   
 Q.  You've been involved in some of these things with Tiger as far as task forces, last year's Ryder Cup.  What does he bring to the team and how involved is he for people that aren't necessarily behind the scenes?  How does it bring to this team?  
PHIL MICKELSON: He's very meticulous in the detail of his preparation, and I think that comes across for the team.  He's been -- all the captains and the vice captains got the ideas of who should play with each other, what holes they should be teeing off on, how the course should be setup if we have input on that, and that type of direction, how to attack certain holes, how to play them off the tee, how to move in -- so the attention to detail has been really an asset for us, and more than that, it's been fun for guys like myself and other guys on the team to get to know him.  I mean, I competed against him, many guys looked up to him and watched him win, but it's an opportunity as he's opened up over the last five or six years to really get to know him on a different level.  It's been fun.   
 Q.  What do you think the International Team's strongest assets are, and what do you think your biggest challenges are this week?  
PHIL MICKELSON: I think the strongest asset of the International Team is their quality of players.  They have really a strong group of talented players, and that's going to be the toughest thing to overcome.  The asset that we have is that we play in these events every year, and we have a little bit more experience on what works, what doesn't work and how to get our best golf out of it.  We're going to have to rely on that if we expect to come out on top because this International Team is really strong.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT