BOB HOPE CHRYSLER CLASSIC
January 20, 2002
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Five months off.  Way to start the new year.  Why don't 
you make a couple of comments about today.  You played great. 
PHIL MICKELSON: Obviously I'm very pleased with the results.  And it was a 
challenging day because the scores were going to be low, and we knew that we 
had to shoot low.  And I was guessing that if I could shoot 8-under, I might 
get in a playoff, 9-under might win out right.  But again that might not be 
enough if the leaders got hot.  And I was fortunate to win in a playoff. 

Q.  Phil, Friday's round was the 2-under, still left you at 36 holes to go. 
What was your feeling after Friday's round? 
PHIL MICKELSON: I wasn't excited with shooting only 2-under par at PGA 
West.  I didn't play that well.  So I felt like that was going to hopefully 
be the one bad round out of the five days.  And if I could make my worst 
round be 2-under, I felt like I could have a good shot at winning. 
I was looking forward to playing Indian Wells on Friday.  And I felt that 
was going to give me an opportunity to go way under.  It gave me a good 
opportunity heading into today, but there were ten people in between myself 
and the lead, even though it was only four strokes.  I had to go catch them 
to make up the ground, because all of those guys weren't going to come back. 
That's why today was a challenging day.  But I'm pleased that I shot 
8-under par, and very pleased to have won. 

Q.  You said the other day that this is a tournament that was a good way to 
ease into the season.  Is this beyond what you had expected after five 
months or what do you do when you're not easing your way in? 
PHIL MICKELSON: The reason I like starting the year off with this 
tournament is because it does give me an extra competitive round.  I enjoyed 
that.  And I was also able to do it in an arena where the tournament was 
broken up over four golf courses.  So it gave me some practice facilities 
that were a little quieter, and I was able to work on my game this week and 
get it sharp. 
But as far as the five months goes, yes, I haven't played a competitive 
tournament in five months, but I felt like I used that time to get myself 
ready for 2002.  There were a couple of swing changes that I wanted to make 
heading into this year that I needed to get physically stronger to be able 
to accomplish those. 
And I felt like I used the time, those five months, to accomplish that. 
And I feel like my golf swing is making the progress that I had been hoping 
that it would.  I've spent a lot of time from 130, 140 yards in, which 
certainly paid off this week.  And it really came into play today  -- as we 
saw the last few holes and what have you. 
So I'm very pleased to have won.  But I don't feel like it was a surprise 
and out of nowhere.  I feel like I've been really working towards the start 
of this year.  And it's nice to see some results. 

Q.  Can you talk about the holes coming in, Phil, 16, 17, 18, the first 
time around. 
PHIL MICKELSON: Well, I knew I needed to try to get to 30.  I didn't hit 
the best drive on 16 and had 106 yards, which I could have hit a sand wedge, 
but I hit a gap wedge, which is a weak pitching wedge.  I hit a good shot at 
10, 12 feet.  It was breaking two or three feet off the slope off the ridge, 
and it went in.  And when that putt went in I felt like I could get the last 
two. 
17 is a pitching wedge and granted I didn't hit the best wedge, a little 
breeze came into me and it came up short, 25, 30 feet.  I made a very good 
putt there, too.  After I birdied 17 I was thinking, "Gosh, if I could hit a 
good tee shot, I might have a shot at 3 on 18," with the pin being in that 
low spot with a backstop. 
The ball was above my feet left-to-right and the wind was right to left, 
and I hung a 4-iron out.  I was very lucky it didn't go in the water.  It 
stayed up.  I actually caught it very solid and I think that's why it was 
enough to carry, but it just didn't have the right line.  And I hit a good 
lob shot to about four feet and made birdie. 
It wasn't the easiest finish, where I had a bunch of tap-ins, but I felt 
like I was able to get it done, and that's what I'm pleased with. 

Q.  The second shot on 18 the first time around, did you think it might be 
in the water when you hit it or when it hit? 
PHIL MICKELSON: I thought there was a good chance it would stay up because 
I hit it flush, I just didn't hit it on line.  It just hung out there.  And 
I didn't see it bounce back into the water, so I figured it was okay. 

Q.  Can you talk about the 18 the second time around, the playoff? 
PHIL MICKELSON: The second time David hit a wonderful drive.  And I hit a 
good drive up the right side and it just kept drifting a little to the right 
and caught the bunker, and I was right up against the lip.  I didn't have a 
choice to go for it or not.  I hit a 7 out and left me with exactly 80 
yards.  I felt like I was going to need to get up-and-down to make birdie to 
tie, and move it to the 10th hole. 
And even when David hit it in the water, though, he still had a short iron 
in with a backstop.  Very good chance he's going to make five.  I have 
thought I needed to make a 4 to win the tournament.  And I was fortunate to 
do it because I did hit the L-wedge a little bit farther, I carried it about 
2, 3 yards farther than I wanted to.  But it still caught enough of the hill 
and brought it back to the hole. 

Q.  You were talking about trying to get physically stronger.  Did you work 
with weights? 
PHIL MICKELSON: Yes.  Yes, I lifted a lot. 

Q.  We're talking arms, shoulders, the whole shot? 
PHIL MICKELSON: Back and hips, primarily. 

Q.  Phil, you talked about one of your goals this year was to improve the 
winning percentage when you got in these situations.  Is this a good for the 
psych I kind of thing? 
PHIL MICKELSON: It is.  And I'll tell you why.  When I was on the 16th 
green, as I was surveying my putt, what went through my mind was this was 
the position I had been in a bunch last year, and I had just kind of 
finished nonchalantly and finished 2nd or 3rd a bunch of times.  And I 
thought this was a chance to me to try to make something happen.  And when 
that putt went in, that's where I got the feeling as though I could do it. 

Q.  You have a very -- I think your record is 5-1 in playoffs.  You 
obviously feel pretty comfortable when you head back out. 
PHIL MICKELSON: I do have a good record in playoffs, but I would say 
playoff records, a lot of it is luck because it's -- it really doesn't give 
you a chance over 18 holes to display who is the better player, what have 
you.  We both obviously played well, David and myself, to finish 30-under 
over five rounds. 
But a lot of luck is involved in playoffs.  And I feel very fortunate to 
have won, because I know the type of player David is.  He's a wonderful 
player, and I think he's going to be a teammate with me shortly in some 
Ryder Cups, President Cups, so I'm looking forward to that.  He's a solid 
player.  When he hit a good drive I felt he was going to have a good shot at 
possibly 3, if not 4. 

Q.  I know they're just numbers, but any special significance to being a 
20-game winner, so to speak? 
PHIL MICKELSON: Well, it's just a nice round number.  It just seems to get 
off the odd number of 19, I guess.  I really haven't thought much about it. 
I feel very fortunate.  I've played the PGA TOUR now for, I think this is my 
10th or 11th season, and to have won 20 times, and to play golf for a 
living, which is what most people do on vacation, as my job, is great.  I'm 
lucky to play golf and I'm lucky to have the success that I've had. 

Q.  There's still a lot of golf to be played, obviously.  But judging from 
a result like this, and a way to get off to such a good shot, do you think 
this might be Phil's year? 
PHIL MICKELSON: I think that this year is a year that I've been very much 
looking forward to and that I've worked hard for and I feel like my game has 
slowly evolved to get where it is today.  The reason I'm so excited about 
winning this particular tournament as opposed to any others in 2002, is what 
I specifically set out to work on and get proficient at is from 120, 130 
yards in, and that's the area or range that we had mostly throughout the 
week. 
And to be able to hit those shots the way I wanted to and give myself a 
number of good birdie putts and really not have too many wayward wedges or 
bad wedge shots, I felt like I became more consistent from 130 in, and more 
efficient.  And that's why I'm excited to have won the tournament, because 
what I've specifically set out to work on paid off this week. 

Q.  The third shot on the 18th, first time, how difficult is it, and are 
there any options?  Could only you do that? 
PHIL MICKELSON: The backing  -- the wedge up? 

Q.  Yes.
PHIL MICKELSON: No, the steepness of the hill was going to bring any wedge 
shot back, for the most part. 

Q.  18, the first time? 
PHIL MICKELSON: The lob shot.  It was a good shot, yeah, it was a good shot 
(laughter.) It was sitting fluffy. 

Q.  How far from the water? 
PHIL MICKELSON: A couple of yards.  It wasn't that close.  It didn't affect 
my stance.  It was a slight uphill lie, which was going to help it.  I felt 
if I didn't carry it almost to the hole it could hit the downslope and race 
eight feet by or so.  So I wanted to fly it over the ridge and land it as 
close to the hole as it could. 
It ended up landing about a foot by the hole and only rolled about a total 
of three and a half, four feet.  It was a good shot, given the situation. 
It was a shot that the lie was pretty conducive to it.  It was not like it 
was sitting up, but it was sitting fluffy enough so that I could get a nice 
L-wedge underneath it. 

Q.  What percentage of your approaches this week would you say you used 
some kind of wedge?  Was it a lot? 
PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, that's a tough question to answer, but it was a 
reasonable amount for just about every par-4. 

Q.  How many today? 
PHIL MICKELSON: Well, I could go through them for you.  1 was a sand wedge. 
And I count the par-5s as L wedges, too, because just like 18, I felt like 
that was a short game shot.  So I counted that. 
I hit No. 2, par-3. 
The par-5s, 6, I was just off the fringe and 2-putted. 
8 was a sand -- a little L-wedge. 
10 was a wedge. 
11, par-5, I hit that in two. 
13 was a long par.  The par-5  -- on the last five holes   -- 14 was a 
little gap wedge.  It wasn't the best, but it gave me a 10 -, 12-footer, it 
was a good miss. 
16, 17 and 18 were all wedges.  So I guess, what, six, seven shots, six, 
seven holes; not quite half, I would say.  But most of the par-4s were 
wedges, especially at Indian Wells or Tamarisk. 

Q.  Did you have more of those this week than you normally would have? 
PHIL MICKELSON: Sure.  For a couple of reasons.  The other courses are 
shorter than what we normally see on Tour.  The rough was kept down, so we 
could hit drivers on a lot of holes.  And so the other courses, primarily we 
were able to hit drivers and have a lot of wedges in. 

Q.  Given all of the practice you went through, as well as you felt like 
you were hitting the ball, did you still surprise yourself in any facet this 
week?
PHIL MICKELSON: Not necessarily, no.  I really felt sharp.  I had spent -- 
I spent time with Rick Smith two weeks ago, got the fundamentals down, got 
the changes we wanted to implement in place, and I felt I was able to 
support them with some increased strength. 
And I came early to spend time at the Dave Pelz short game school, and got 
my short game sharp, putting.  I had to rely on my caddy, Bones, for reading 
the greens this week, because he grew up on bermuda, I did not, and he has a 
better read for them. 
Once he gives me the line, I'm able to see it.  But he's got to give it to 
me because I see two or three different lines on every putt.  So I give a 
lot of credit to him, not only did he pull a lot of great clubs this week, 
but he read the greens this week. 

Q.  (Inaudible.) 
PHIL MICKELSON: I don't feel like it.  I was excited to get back in 
competitive golf.  I don't feel like I was that far removed.  It's only five 
months.  It's not that long.  I've played golf for 29, 30 years.  It's not 
like I'm going to forget how.  I just had to get sharp and I felt like I put 
in the time and effort to do that. 

Q.  Is the player that can't drive it 280, 290, 300, is that player getting 
left behind in this game now as courses are getting longer? 
PHIL MICKELSON: I wouldn't say that he's left behind.  I think he's at a 
severe disadvantage.  It won't really show in certain events.  It won't show 
in the U.S. open, let's say, where you can only hit it 265, 270 before the 
fairway cuts off so, that won't really make a difference. 
On a lot of Tour-quality courses we'll have holes where if you can carry 
280, 285 you might be able to hit to a little wider fairway or you'll be 
able to have wedges in.  And that's pretty much the goal right now is to 
drive the ball long and straight so that you can hit wedges out of the 
fairway.  You're going to be able to attack every pin. 
If you're hitting 5 -, 6 - 7-iron, you can tuck some pins and not be able 
to shoot at them. 

Q.  Are you ready to play with Justin Timberlake next year? 
PHIL MICKELSON: We'll see.  I'll probably request to stay off of the 
celebrity rotation and do what I did this year, which was to get some good 
practice in and get some good work done.  I don't know if I'll be able to, 
as the defending champion. 

Q.  The last guy to win was Miller, a long time ago, since the guy has 
repeated? 
PHIL MICKELSON: It's a year from now, I'll worry about it then. 
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Congratulations again, and thank you very much, Phil. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT