U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 17, 2001
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Well, you seemed seem to have learned something each time you're in this position.  What did you learn today if anything?
 
PHIL MICKELSON:  I don't know exactly what I learned today.  I think that it was a difficult day for me, in that I did not play the way I would have liked, obviously.  I didn't have the same feeling that I did the first three rounds, where I really felt I could get to this golf course, make some birdies.  Today there were not as many accessible pins and it seemed as though on the holes that were accessible I missed the fairways, so it made it very difficult for me to make birdies.  But I felt like I hung in there for the first seven, eight holes and made some good pars and was even par on the round.  On 9, I felt starting at 9 I could make birdies.  9 through 13 all were very birdieable.  When I missed that fairway and made bogey, that certainly stung, as did the bogey on 10.  That really took a lot of momentum out.  On 13 I missed some short putts.  I'm not going to beat myself up over today's round.  It's certainly not the finish I would have liked, but out of playing 45 majors or so now, and not winning any, I'm tired of beating myself up time after time.  If I happen to win the British Open or the PGA this year, that would be great.  And it's something I will be gungho for and working hard for, but again, if it doesn't happen, I'm tired of beating myself up. 
 
Q.  Did you feel the crowd out there -- it seems from watching the coverage that they've been pulling for you.
 
PHIL MICKELSON:  I've certainly felt some support.  It's been a very enjoyable week.  The whole week has been fun.  The golf course was set up very well, it was a fun test.  The weather held off for us, it wasn't too hot.  And I thought that the whole week went very well.  And certainly one bad round is not going to spoil the way I look at this tournament. 
 
Q.  How long would you say you went through a phase where you would beat yourself up?
 
PHIL MICKELSON:  Quite a few years.  I really thought that I should have been winning major championships in the mid '90s.  I had a great shot at Shinnecock and some Masters, and didn't do it. And I would leave really dejected and feeling down.  But the way I look at it, last year I played well in the four majors and had zero chances to win.  And this year I've improved my game, had great opportunities heading into the final round.  Granted, I didn't come through and win, it was very exciting to at least have the opportunity to win.  And I fully expect that if I continue to play the way I have, I should have a good shot at the British Open and PGA. 
 
Q.  What about the par-putt at 13?
 
PHIL MICKELSON:  I tried hard on that birdie putt, and it just didn't do what I wanted.  It's not like I didn't try.  I don't know what happened.  I think I just pulled it. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT