GTE BYRON NELSON GOLF CLASSIC
May 14, 2000
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 PHIL MICKELSON: Well, what would you guys like to know? 
 
Q. The last putt at 17, did you think it was in?
 
 PHIL MICKELSON: I did. I did. I thought it was a little right-to-left. I had a pretty
aggressive roll on it, and I thought that I had enough speed on it to hold its line, and
unfortunately, it just fell off on the low side. I don't know what to say. You saw that it
lipped out pretty good. I think, though, that, you know, I lost the tournament on not the
playoff hole, but on the 18th in regulation. To bogey that hole, was extremely
disappointed, and even though I hit a poor drive I got away with it. I had a very good
shot to the pin. Hit what I thought was a really good shot. It just got hit a little bit
more by the wind, but came up short and plugged in the bunker. I was expecting myself to
have about a 15-footer for birdie and instead I had almost an impossible par. So that was
I disappointing finish. 
 
Q. Phil, a lot of guys this week complained about too much sand in the bunker. Was that
a factor with your shot there? 
 
 PHIL MICKELSON: Well, I knew that if I came up short in the bunker, it was going to
plug, because every shot that I hit into the bunkers this week plugged. Everybody else
knew that, too. You just had to avoid the bunkers like the plague because they were -- the
ball was going it bury. There was nothing you could do about it. I didn't have a problem
with that, but that's what they are for; they are called hazards. As long as they are
consistent, I don't have a problem with it. But certainly the fact that every ball in
there plugged, made that for a very difficult up-and-down.  
 
Q. Tee ball landed where on 18? 
 
 PHIL MICKELSON: Left of the fairway. 
 
Q. But what kind of a --
 
 PHIL MICKELSON: It was a good lie on an uphill lie to get over this tree. It was just
no problem. I hit a 9-iron from 140, and if I had hit an 8-iron, it probably would have
been fine. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT