PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 11, 2017
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PHIL MICKELSON: If I can play well in those, I have a chance to get on the team on my own.  If I play well in them and don't make it, I have a chance to be a pick.  But I've got to play well in them is the thing.   
The difference is I'm not searching.  It's not like I'm hitting the ball crooked, I'm just hitting it in the wrong spots.  Not really controlling my thought process, where I want the ball to go.  I'm not real focused out there.  I'm having a tough time visualizing the shot.  I'm having a tough time controlling my thoughts and not letting it wonder to what I don't want to have happen.   
On the range, I'm having some of the best sessions, swinging the club fine, striking it pretty good and yet I'm not controlling my thought process out there.   
 Q.  The last two days has been the ball striking?  
PHIL MICKELSON: Like I say, it's a more not controlling my thoughts.  So if I have a short putt, it's not a technical issue, I'll just not seeing the ball go in and staying committed.  I'm just losing focus on every shot.  I have a week to work on it and see if I can get it dialed in.   
I don't feel like I did two years ago where I'm searching for my game or I'm trying to find it or trying to strike it well.  I have great practice sessions.  Drove it fine.  Just not real focused when I'm out there.   
 Q.  How do you work on that?  
PHIL MICKELSON: That's a good question.  I'll have to figure that out.   
 Q.  Is it surprising to struggle as you did on a course where you have had success in the past?  
PHIL MICKELSON: It's a little different golf course than what we've played in the past.  One of reasons I've played so well here is because there's no rough.  Here there is some severe rough.  Coupled with the fact that I hit the ball above the hole most of the time, that wasn't a good combination.   
 Q.  Is it overstating to say this is one of tougher stretches of your career?  
PHIL MICKELSON: It's been two majors.  I've played fine this year.  I made every cut up to the British.  Just been these last two majors.   
 Q.  Do you feel okay physically?  
PHIL MICKELSON: I feel fine.   
 Q.  When does college start?  
PHIL MICKELSON: Same week as the second FedExCup event.   
 Q.  Are you going to help her move and pack?  
PHIL MICKELSON: I'll be there when she moves in, yeah.  I'm looking forward to it.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
PHIL MICKELSON: That's what I'm try starting to.   
 Q.  Even when you struggle to score, you make a lot of birdies.  The opening here, not very many.  Is there anything to that?  
PHIL MICKELSON: No, not really.  Just not putting the ball in the right spot.  You are limited out here.  There's about six holes you can birdie.  The others you can hit great shot, a great shot is going to be 25 to 50 feet.  So on those six holes you have got to hit it in the fairway.   
Yesterday I drove it in the water on 7.  I missed the fairway on 8.  Made bogey on 8, on one of the birdie holes.  You have to take advantage of the few opportunities you have.  You can't approach this golf course trying to birdie every hole.  It doesn't work.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT