THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 6, 2017
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Get in with a 67; analyze your round.
PHIL MICKELSON: It was a good start for me.  I wasn't firing on all cylinders and I just kind of managed my game you throughout the day to shoot a decent number.
But it feels a lot better than the way I played yesterday today.  The last few holes I think I kind of keyed in on a few things, so I am hopeful to come out tomorrow.
If I drive the ball well my iron play has been pretty strong lately, so I should be able to make some birdies out here.
Q. Day one Team Mickelson, what's the report card for Tim?
PHIL MICKELSON: We had a lot of fun.  He did a great job, a phenomenal job.  More than that, we had a good time doing it.
I'm looking forward to not just this week but the rest of the year.
Q. What do you think of Bones coming to the dark side?
PHIL MICKELSON: He's going to be awesome.  I think he's really going to do well there.  When he tried a year or so ago he did a great job.  I think he'll be a natural at it because he has such great insight into the game.
Q. Nice finish.  I know you probably thought it could be a little bit better on the last couple putts there.
PHIL MICKELSON: I'll take the round today.  I didn't feel like I was really sharp, but I was able to manage my game and kind of keep the ball in play enough and make some pars.
I've been playing much better than the way I struck it today, so the last three or four holes I hit some good shots.  If I can carry that play over into tomorrow I can make a move up the leaderboard.
Q. 17 go for it in two and came close to making an eagle putt there.
PHIL MICKELSON: I did.  I didn't give it quite enough pace.  It was on the perfect line I wanted, but didn't carry enough pace through the hole and it died across it.
I hit some good shots there.  I hit a good drive on 16; made birdie.  Good drive on 17; made birdie.  If I continue to drive it in play, my iron play has been pretty good.
Q. As you said, you scrambled to a pretty decent number.
PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, and I had been driving the ball really, really well.  Then yesterday I just kind of stumbled a little bit and wasn't quite sharp today.  I was able to manage it, able to keep it in play enough and not take on too many mistakes.
I'm starting to feel a little bit more comfortable.  As I do that I'll be more aggressive off the tee much.  As I drive the ball longer down the hole and hopefully in the fairway, my wedge game has been pretty sharp.
Q. Pretty good to score today.  This may be the best scoring day of the week if things dry up.
PHIL MICKELSON: Very possibly today, yes.  Very possibly today was the best scoring day.
However, we're going to get out there tomorrow in the morning.  There is supposed to be a little bit of light rain.  If that's the case, tomorrow could be even better than today.
Q. How as it working with your brother?
PHIL MICKELSON: Great.  We had a lot of fun.  Really good.  I'm looking forward to the rest of the week.
Q. He mentioned there was one number that he almost got wrong but he caught it in time.
PHIL MICKELSON: If something doesn't look right I'll say, Will you double check that?  I do that with Bones, too.  Every now and then we'll just catch it off the wrong sprinkler or something.  It just kind of happens.
No, he caught it before I even said anything.
Q. Down the stretch with your brother you feel more calm and relaxed having a familiar face?
PHIL MICKELSON: I think any time you have a change of environment it brings about a new energy, but more than that, Tim is one my favorite people to be around.  We really had a lot of fun together today.
We just enjoy being together.  He kind of understands my sense of humor.  We tell some jokes and laugh throughout the day and we had a good time.
Q. Can you tell us about the interaction on 11.
PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, unfortunately I hit somebody pretty hard in the head.  He was a little wobbly.  I think he's okay.  I mean, the medics came.  It's unnerving because you just never want to hurt somebody like that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT