KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 27, 2017
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PHIL MICKELSON: One, they've created one of the premier majors in women's golf, and they are moving it to some of the great courses throughout the country, and Olympia Fields is one of the best.  This partnership helps to bring a lot of kids into the game and exposes them to the game and gives them something to aspire to, but if they don't make it in professional golf, the Future Leaders program KPMG started a couple years ago takes these young girls out of high school who have accomplished a lot, who have overcome a lot, and gives them a mentorship program to help go through college and into the business world, and they can utilize the game of golf to formulate those business relationships.  So it's an important thing in that it helps women in business through the Future Leaders program, but it also exposes more people, more kids to the game of golf, which is what I'm passionate about, because as we all want to see this game grow, you want to appeal to everybody and not just half the population.   
 Q.  You pulled out the big win here today; what was it like competing with the ladies?  
PHIL MICKELSON: I was nervous because I know how good they are, and it was fun because it gave me an opportunity to be around some of the best players in the world, best athletes in the world, and it's very fun to watch.  Last year's event where Brooke Henderson shot such a low round and went into a playoff with Lydia Ko was one of the most exciting golf events all of last year, so to bring them back here to be a part of this tournament, it's fun and exciting, and with the ease with this you can get out to this course now through the train system here in Chicago, there's no reason not to come out and support this great event.   
 Q.  I heard one of the guys behind you offer to be your caddie.  How much of that are you getting these days?  
PHIL MICKELSON: Well, most people know my brother is going to be with me the rest of the year, so it's kind of a non-issue.  I've cherished these last 25 years together with Bones.  We've gone through highs and lows on the course, we've gone through highs and lows off the course, but I'm also looking forward to spending the rest of the year with my brother.  He's one of the people I love and respect the most.  He's somebody I've missed these last five and a half years as he's been at Arizona as the college golf coach there, and now that he's been working for Jon Rahm and managing his career, he's been out on Tour a lot more, and it's been fun to see him.  And I'm appreciative that Jon okayed him to caddie for me the rest of the year because it'll give us a chance to spend a lot of time together, which I'll cherish.   
 Q.  Is it going to be strange going to an event and not having Bones there?  
PHIL MICKELSON: Oh, sure it will.  But I think we're just both really appreciative of the 25 years we've had together.  We wanted to end it at the U.S. Open because that's where we started in 1992.  We wanted to make it exactly 25 years.  But technically was, and our first event was the qualifying in Memphis for the U.S. Open in 1992.  So we knew that final round in Memphis that that was our last round together, or most likely, we were holding out hope that it wasn't, that we had one more week.  And it was an emotional day, but we both know it's time, and he's going to have some incredible opportunities.  There's going to be a great player, a lot of great players -- one great player is going to be lucky enough to have him and he's going to bring a lot to his game and they're going to be a great team, and then it gives me an opportunity to spend time with my brother for the rest of this year, which I'm looking forward to.   
 Q.  Do you think you'll ever see a partnership 25 years like you guys had?  
PHIL MICKELSON: Very possibly.  Very possibly.  You see that with Jordan Spieth and Michael Greller.  They have the potential to do that.  And it's the greatest thing.  When you can go through your career and experience and share those moments, those great moments, those tough moments -- you know, when we were going through a tough time for Amy and I in 2009 and we started our cancer treatment, the first person to show up was Bones and his wife Janet.  We have this relationship that spreads a lot more than just golf.  It goes out into a real friendship and somebody I love and respect.   
 Q.  Will Bones work with Jon?  
PHIL MICKELSON: I have no idea, nor will I speculate on what he's going to do.  He's not told me anything, and I think that he's going to have a lot of players call him and inquire about his services.  That would be what I would anticipate.  But I don't know.   
 Q.  What about the drug testing policy?  What do you think about that?  
PHIL MICKELSON: I saw that came out last week.  I think it'll be interesting.  The more transparency we have the better.   
 Q.  In one of the releases you talked about your daughters.  Do they play golf?  
PHIL MICKELSON: They all started.  They all took lessons.  They play sparingly.  They're not passionate about it, but they're very confident.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT