THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 12, 2017
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. The front nine on the scorecard looked very clean.  The back nine was very volatile.
PHIL MICKELSON: I don't know what to say, I played well today, I thought that -- it's a hard course and any errant swings will lead to not a good score.  But I played a good front nine and shot even.  I don't know what else to say.
Q. This is a place that you missed the cut the last four years, now you're playing the weekend.  How do you couch that with the disappointing finish there with the shot on 17?
PHIL MICKELSON: Well, that's part of this course.  It's not like I would have done anything different.  I was in between nine and wedge, I tried to hit it to the front of the green, I hit wedge and it went over the green in the water.  So, it happens on this course where the penalty for -- especially with the greens being firm -- the penalty is going to be like that.  It's going to make us look pretty silly out there a lot of spots.  But I hit a lot of good shots, including the one on 17 that went in the water.  So, unfortunately I made double there.  But I'm in a good spot for tomorrow, I'll come out tomorrow and see if I can shoot a number.
Q. The saves on 8, 9 and 10, did you feel like you were really building into potentially a good round there?
PHIL MICKELSON: It was already a good round, I was 3-under, I had a good turn, a good nine.  Those were good par saves to keep the momentum going, the bogey on 10 was a good bogey, after that tee shot, and came back with birdie on 11.  So now I have a chance to shoot under par on the back and unfortunately I let it go.
Q. Can they set the golf course up so somebody can go low, the way the changes are, as firm as the greens are?
PHIL MICKELSON: I think the guy that is going to be leading tomorrow is going to be somebody that's at like even, 1-under par right now that goes out early and has a chance to shoot a low round.  Because as the day wears on, the course firms up, drys out and it gets a lot more difficult.
Q. So it's out there.
PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, I think anybody that made the cut has a really good shot.  But especially if you're even, 1-under, I think those guys go out a little early and I think they could shoot 6-, 7-under par and get right back in it.  I know there was probably a couple of those today, but I don't see many of those out there.
Q. What's the number you're looking for?
PHIL MICKELSON: Anything in the 60s is a good round, anything in the 60s will be right there.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT