TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 28, 2020
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Phil, how would you characterize this week for you?  
PHIL MICKELSON: So I'm looking at this week as progress. Certainly the goal is to win golf tournaments, but keep in mind I've missed a bunch of cuts. I haven't played to the level I've wanted to, and this week I came in and had a lot of great finds. I hit a lot of good shots, hit a lot of good tee shots. My misses were much better.   
The weekend I didn't score well; I had a lot of penalty strokes what have you. But it was a good week of progress. So I'm going to take this week off here, work on some things, I'm going to play Workday and I'm excited to get back and play. I feel like that golf course, Muirfield Village, is a great course for me, and I feel like this is a good momentum builder. There was a lot of good things that happened here that I need to refine, I need to touch up, but I felt like a lot of good things happened this week, and again, the goal is to win, but I also need to identify the fact that I made a lot of progress this week, too.   
 Q.  In this week off, what will you work on?  
PHIL MICKELSON: Continuing to refine some of the ball-striking. I drove it a lot better. I didn't have the big wipey misses left. I had a couple. I did one on 10 and I had a couple of them, but nothing like I've had in the past. My putter was okay. It was good the first two days; it was just okay this weekend. I'll work on that. But those things are starting to come around, and it gives me some confidence heading into the next couple of tournaments and the rest of the summer.   
 Q.  Being fit and healthy and looking good, does that change your -- you're obviously very positive about this week and taking it into next. Does that change your attitude, as well?  
PHIL MICKELSON: It's part of it. I feel really good and I recover faster. I've been able to practice, have been able to have good practice sessions, but more than that, I finally feel like I really have some good direction. This was a good week in a lot of areas, and I'm very optimistic going forward. I don't think this is a one-off. I think it's going to be the start of something really special, at least that's what I'm sensing. So I'm excited to work on it, to refine it and then to get back out in Ohio and see if I can put it together.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT