SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
March 31, 2017
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PHIL MICKELSON: Well, today played tougher.  I didn't play bad.  I didn't play bad.  I shot even.  I made the cut and give me a chance to come out tomorrow and try to get some work done, get a little bit of momentum, and hopefully an opportunity to go low in the morning with some softer conditions.
I wasn't as mentally sharp yesterday, but today was a lot better.  I thought I hit a lot of good shots and didn't have any mistakes.  I love playing here.  I think it's a fun golf course.  It doesn't have rough.  I like that.  I really enjoy this set-up here.
Q. Phil, you were kind of bouncing around, making the cut the whole day.  What was the mental process?  You mentioned working on things.  Lot of guys are down 15, 16, but you're still in it at the same time.
PHIL MICKELSON: I got frustrated early because I'm having difficulty getting the ball close to make birdies.  I usually hit -- I'm able to hit 2 3-iron shots within 3, 4 feet to have to tap-in birdies.  I haven't been doing that.  I'm having a tough time judging the wind sometimes.  All the little variables are not quite hitting it right.  Those are the areas I got to get sharp, because I was sharp last week and in the interim I went down to Augusta and I did some course work there and as I teed off yesterday.
I haven't been, like I say, quite that sharp where I'm hitting it -- I'm hitting it 20 feet instead of 6 feet, and tomorrow I've got an opportunity to change that, and much like when I won in 2011 I ended up coming out from way back and shot 9-under.  That's the goal tomorrow.  I got to go out and shoot 9, 10-under par to get back in.
Q. Phil, a report came out last night citing court documents about a gambling debt you paid allegedly in 2012.  Do you have any comment about that report?
PHIL MICKELSON: I don't know what else to add.
Q. How important was it for you to make the cut?  You want to play this week.
PHIL MICKELSON: I fought hard in the end to get to the weekend because I felt to get sharp for next week, I need to play a better round. I didn't want to have five days without competitive rounds before we tee off.  I also think the course provides a great opportunity to get ready for next week.  I really like the way they set it up.  The greens are getting a little greasy.  They're fast.  That's great.  We have to work on our putting.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT