SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
March 30, 2017
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PHIL MICKELSON: I thought the course -- it's in great shape.  It held up beautifully with the rain, and the weather was nice.  I played terrible, and unfortunately I put myself back quite a bit, but I've been playing well.  I'm looking forward to getting out here tomorrow and see if I can get pack in it.   
 Q.  What did you (inaudible)?  
PHIL MICKELSON: I was just a little bit off.  I didn't hit my irons close.  I didn't make a lot of great putts.  I did make some to keep it at even.  Hit a few in the hazard.  I wasn't quite sharp today, but like I said, playing well so I'm hopeful to come out tomorrow and shoot a low one and get back in it.   
 Q.  Just hard to find a run, consistent run of playing?  
PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, I don't know how to explain it.  It's just not quite clicking.  You're not quite seeing the shot or feeling the shot.  It just wasn't sharp.  It's not far off, but it just wasn't what I had been -- the way I've been playing.   
 Q.  Phil, you spent the last couple of days in Augusta.  Have you made a trip up there?  
PHIL MICKELSON: I did.  I spent the last Monday, Tuesday at Augusta.  It's in incredible shape like it always is.  Had a chance to play with a few members, play some other players, and the course was -- the greens were quick.  The greens they had them up to pretty good speed.  It was nice to get a little bit of work done.   
 Q.  Your times playing here, does it affect you going to next week?  
PHIL MICKELSON: I think playing here really helps me.  Helps me to get sharp so that I don't have a day like this next Thursday, that I get focused and dialed in a lot easier when I only have three days in between tournament rounds rather than ten days or more.  I like playing the week before.  I like the fact the course is set up similar.  Certainly the fairways and the first cut is much like Augusta.   
 Q.  Phil, Ernie is likely playing his last Masters next week.  He talked about your battle in '04, one of the best in your career.  What are your reflections on that and what's your reaction to that?  
PHIL MICKELSON: I never -- it's hard to believe that that may be the case, that this could be Ernie's last Masters.  He's such a good player.  I have a hard time believing it will be his last.  I think he'll qualify for more.  He's got too much good golf left in him.  If it is his last, I hope he plays well enough to not be his last.   
 Q.  What's the best way to prepare for the Masters?  
PHIL MICKELSON: Well, to practice on the greens.  It's hard to find a place that is comparable speed size where you really work on your lag drills.  I've beep fortunate to have an area in San Diego -- we've got the speed of the green up to 15, and I've been able to practice live putting and seeing the ball begin to roll because the sensitivity is so minute on those greens that it's very easy to throw putt, especially downhill.  Probably 58 percent of all 3-putts at Augusta are going to be downhill as opposed to uphill, and it's just the sensitivity is so great on them.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT