WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 25, 2017
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Talk about the rest of the golf course.  You haven't seen it all week long.  Talk about the beginning.  You said you were 6-under par through ten holes.  How well are you playing right now compared to the last three days, you think?  
PHIL MICKELSON: Well, we had soft conditions this morning and there was no wind when we teed off.  It certainly picked up a little bit here this afternoon.  In the morning it was pristine, you had perfect greens, little bit of moisture.  So you had ideal scoring conditions.  And I ended up playing for a few holes under par and got off to a good start.   
 Q.  Good starts all throughout the week, means you are ending everything from here and backwards.  Is there a disadvantage not playing the entire golf course?  
PHIL MICKELSON: Well, I'm certainly a little bit worried because I know there's going to be a key match that's going to go down to the last few holes.  I'm not as comfortable on those holes as I would like to be.  I love the fact that I'm able to be rested and ready to play.  I think it's helping me get off to a good start.   
 Q.  On the scoreboard another win, 4 & 3.  Talk about your start and how impressive you are playing.  
PHIL MICKELSON: It was perfect conditions starting this morning, and in the first few matches where you have such strong winds and firm greens, you are thinking about making some pars because birdies were almost -- they were very difficult.  This morning we had perfect conditions.  We knew that you would have to make birdies to win holes.  I was able to birdie some of the early holes to gee off to a lead and that was a nice way to start.  It got more difficult here in the afternoon.   
 Q.  You have not yet seen holes 16 through 18 this week.  Are you going to play a few before the next round or keep going as you are?  
PHIL MICKELSON: No, I don't want to press my luck.  Certainly I have a concern that there's going to be a critical match that comes down to those last few holes.  I also think the fact that I have been able to have this extra time and be rested is helping me get off to a good start.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT