WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 24, 2017
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How do you feel about your game?  
PHIL MICKELSON: I didn't make a bogey, so that's a good thing.  I thought I drove it pretty well with the exception of two drives, that first tee shot, I don't know what happened, and nine.  I hit it where I needed to.  Hit some good iron shots and I rolled the ball well.  I made a lot of the short putts, four to eight feet.   
 Q.  Would you have given yourself that putt on 8?  
PHIL MICKELSON: It was two feet, yeah.  I have been giving those.  I expect to putt them, but in other matches I probably would have.  But, look, JB and I -- I don't like playing against J.B.  I like playing with J.B.  I've had him on the teams, Ryder Cup, Presidents Cup.  I really like playing with him and we had a very friendly match.  I haven't missed one of those in a long time, so I don't see why -- I don't think that would be an issue.   
 Q.  I just saw you smiling afterwards.  I didn't know if it was because he gave you the putt or something he might have said.  Talk about Austin and Dell Technologies.  
PHIL MICKELSON: We really enjoy this tournament here.  This is a great golf course to hold this event, because you have such severe penalties.  If you don't pull the shots off, you are making bogeys and doubles.  In a stroke play event, we would be playing so defensive that it would be unexciting.  Here you are seeing a lot of birdies and a lot of mistakes, a lot of low numbers, high numbers and for match play it's really fun to watch.   
 Q.  That was both smart and efficient.  Smart because you got your match done before the thunderstorm happened.  And efficient, it's only taken you 42 holes to advance.  
PHIL MICKELSON: There's a good and a bad.  I'm nervous that I haven't been in a match that has gone the last hole or two and feel that clutch pressure, but also the good is that I have been able to conserve energy heading into this weekend.  That is going to be a real key with four potential matches.  If you keep playing well four potential matches, energy could be an issue.   
 Q.  Talk about your play against J.B. Holmes, who we both know is a fantastic player.  
PHIL MICKELSON: I don't like playing against him.  I like playing with him.  We're partners on these team events.  I really enjoy partnering with him.  I like him a ton.  His game is extremely strong.  When you are already knocked out, it's difficult to be your sharpest.  Certainly there's professional pride, we want to go out and play well and win our match, but it was a lot easier for me to be up for this match because I had something to play for.  Not that he didn't, but we have a very good friendship.  And it was a tough day because I always pull for J.B. and today he didn't have his best.  And we had to compete against each other.  I sure enjoy being on the team partnering with him a lot more than I like playing against him.   
 Q.  How nice is it to go out when you are 2 and 0, and knowing if you win you are going to move on and not have to do math in your head?  
PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, it's a nice thing.  Here, if you win, you continue on.  To win the first three matches is a great start.  This weekend will be difficult.  Every match out here is difficult.  The guys that play this weekend are obviously playing well because they won their groups.  It will be a continued challenge heading into this weekend.  I'm looking for to it.  I'm excited.  I haven't been to the weekend in match play in a long time.  This is really been fun.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT