WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 23, 2017
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How would you describe playing in wind like this today?  
PHIL MICKELSON: I think it's fun.  I mean, I think it's a hard challenge.  I think that given the severity of the greens and so forth, certainly there are holes we're going to look ridiculous on.  I think it's fun and it's great for match play because you don't worry about the stroke.  It's just relative to your opponent.  So you can get aggressive on some of these holes and take on some of the trouble.  If you pull it off, you can make some birdies.   
 Q.  Bones is standing right behind you.  He had a tough week in Mexico.  How would you compare the way you are playing right now this week compared to the way you were in Mexico?  
PHIL MICKELSON: It's tough to say in match play because you are not counting them all.  It's hard to decipher exactly.  I played some solid yesterday, played some solid golf the first eight holes today.  I was a couple under.  I lost a little bit of focus today when -- it happens when -- it happens.  I didn't need to be perfect today.   
 Q.  You were 4 up and you saw some sort of stumble to the finish line.  Just how hard was it playing in the breeze?  
PHIL MICKELSON: It's difficult on or around the greens because the wind will carry putts quite a bit on the greens as firm and fast as they are.  I'm enjoying it.  I think it's a fun challenge.  I think that if you hit some good shots, you can be rewarded.  There are some birdie holes out here, but there's also some difficult holes.   
 Q.  On 14, we thought that chip was perfect.  Is this course almost getting unplayable?  
PHIL MICKELSON: No.  You just can't put it in that spot.  I hit a lob shot with a 64 degree wedge.  I'm pretty good with it.  I couldn't keep it from going in the water.  I wasn't thinking because had I just played to the right, I could have played into an upslope and stopped the ball no problem.  I just couldn't go at the pin.  I didn't think that was going to be an issue.  The way the wind carries it on these green and right along the water's edge, it rolls off even more.  If it gets within five or six feet of the water, it will go in.  But it's fun.  We all know that.  We all know that's the case.  We're not adding them up, if you will.  We're not saying that we shot 4 over or 3 over or 6 under.  Nobody cares.  It's just how you do in your match.   
 Q.  You have gone 5 and 3, 5 and 4 in the first few days.  You are all set up for a big Friday.  
PHIL MICKELSON: I'm looking forward to it.  I am enjoying playing this golf course.  I love the tough conditions.  I think it's supposed to get bad tomorrow.  That's great.  I would really -- over the years, I was terrible in bad conditions and weather and wind and whatnot early in my career.  As I've gotten older, I've learned how to hit those shots.  There was no greater sign of that than winning The Open Championship in '13.  Now I really relish the bad stuff, especially in match play where everybody is playing the same conditions.  What really is not fun is when you are playing in awful conditions and then it softens for the rest of the field.  That's not the case here.  We're all playing the same conditions.  I actually really enjoy the difficult stuff.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT