THE RYDER CUP
October 2, 2016
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  That was so much fun to watch.  I'm sure it was fun to be a part of too?  
PHIL MICKELSON: It really was.  It was a good day.  We made a lot of birdies and we -- I think we had 20 birdies between us.  It was a fun day.  Probably a fitting end, but I'm just excited that there's a lot of red up there and our guys have played some incredible golf this week.  Real excited to be part of this team.   
 Q.  You've played some amazing golf this year.  What you did at the Open Championship.  I know the year has been a little bit of a disappointment, but with a new coach is this going to be the highlight if you guys can win it over everything else?  
PHIL MICKELSON: This is a great way to cap the year.  This is something that we pulled together to try to accomplish.  We're not done.  We've got some work to do.  It certainly looks good the way these guys are playing and as much red is up on the board.   
 Q.  You were in your 11th Ryder Cup singles match.  They were not getting any easier to win, are they?  
PHIL MICKELSON: No.  There was a lot of good golf out there.  Sergio played some great golf.  Not just today but all week.  We really had a fun.  We're just finishing up and we're just kind of calming down.  You don't appreciate all that's going on around us.  But to look up and see that much red and see how our guys fought, the way Patrick led us out there, the way Rickie came out today and won his match and the way the guys in the last six groups are doing so well, it's fun to be a part of this team.  They have played some great golf.   
 Q.  You are obviously a big part of the task force, regardless of this result, how successful has that task force been?  
PHIL MICKELSON: We're kind of jumping the gun here. We've got some work to do.  The guys have played some great golf today.  That whole thing has nothing to do with one particular event, per se.  This is something we're going to build on as we move forward, otherwise it it's all for not.  Got to take this experience and continue to add to it.   
I had a great year putting and very confident with where it was at.  I've got to fix my driving in this offseason.  If I can do that, I'm going to have some really great years.   
 Q.  What is your normal vertical leap?  
PHIL MICKELSON: Good solid four to six, I would guess.  I don't know.   
 Q.  What was that?  
PHIL MICKELSON: I don't know.  I don't know.   
 Q.  You haven't looked like that since the Masters?  
PHIL MICKELSON: I'm a little over.   
 Q.  A little reminiscent of that move, if you will.  Was that organic?  
PHIL MICKELSON: I wasn't quite sure if that ball was going to hang in there.  It caught the right side of the hole.  I went down uncertain and excited when it dropped.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT