AT&T PEBBLE BEACH PRO-AM
February 9, 2020
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Just how would you assess the day?
PHIL MICKELSON: So I'll tell you, I had a lot of fun today having a chance to be in contention and having a chance to win. It was fun to get back in it. And these last couple of weeks have really given me a lot of motivation and momentum to continue doing what I've been doing. It's disappointing certainly to have not won, but I got outplayed. I mean, Nick played better than I did. He holed a couple of great shots. That eagle on 6, the putts he made on 4, 5 and 7 and he just really played some great golf. I kept -- I had a couple of times where I hit really good shots in bad spots and I had a couple times where I just then didn't quite trust it and made some bad swings. I fought hard. But I loved having a chance to be in it again. It's so fun being in the last group, and I'm hoping to continue to build on this.
Q. How difficult were those conditions kind of around the turn there?
PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, it was extremely difficult because you have the wind that kept swirling in and then down, and you had the greens that were very firm and there's really no run-up shots. So it was a hard day but I got outplayed, totally fine with that, and that I'm going to continue to get better and give myself more chances and I'm really excited about the rest of the year.
Q. Take a lot of confidence going into Riviera, a place you love?
PHIL MICKELSON: So there's a lot of positives that I take out of today. I've always struggled with right-to-left wind and I feel like I had a little bit of a milestone here these last few weeks where, off of 18, wind's blowing right into the ocean, in the past I've struggled with that. I hit two great little low drives in play. If I can continue to do that it's going to be a good year.
Q. What did you figure out with that particular shot?
PHIL MICKELSON: I just worked hard on it. I worked hard on it with the equipment, with my swing, to get rid of that left miss and I'm excited about where we're headed.
Q. What's been the biggest challenge in the last 52 weeks since you won here?
PHIL MICKELSON: Getting my confidence back and playing well and starting and visualizing and seeing what I want to have happen, not letting negative thoughts continue to creep in after so many months of poor play. But these last two weeks have been good strides. I got off to a rough start, knowing I'm playing well, but not focusing properly the first two weeks, missed the cut and now I've had two third place finishes and I'm going to continue to build on that and give myself more chances. And I'm having a ton of fun, it's just really fun having a chance.
Q. (No Microphone.)
PHIL MICKELSON: No, I didn't, I had a tough time with the conditions, I had a tough time with making pars, but my focus and everything was really sharp today. I just didn't execute, we had a few misjudgments of the wind, we just had -- it was just a tough round.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT