BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 11, 2016
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Because of the stats that you took in 2014 that affected change in the Ryder Cup process, does that impact how you feel about this Ryder Cup?  Do you fool anymore pressure to perform?  
PHIL MICKELSON: No, I think that all of us feel excitement about having input and involvement in the process and having continuity and consistency from year to year, having a game plan heading in, and we are trying to alleviate all the uncertainty that causes more stress and pressure the week of.  And that's what is most exciting for me and all the players who have played in the past who care so much about the Ryder Cup to now actually have input in the process, like we do the Presidents Cup, is exciting.   
 Q.  How would you rate the amount of input?  On a scale of 0 to 10 what was it?  
PHIL MICKELSON: It's been quite a bit.  I think it was very difficult for, at first, for the PGA to take a step back and give up control on the captaincy.  That was always a big thing for whoever the president was.  To give up control on a lot of the day-to-day things as far as planning for the future for future captaincies, future vice captaincies, having continuity, having a game plan, all those things it's very difficult to relinquish control and I think we're all very appreciative that they have made that big step, because we feel like, as a group, we are giving ourselves an opportunity to succeed, rather than obstacles to overcome.   
 Q.  Rory said earlier this week that he thinks that there's some inequity that they have named their 12 people at one point and that you guys are spreading it along.  What do you, what's your reaction to that?  
PHIL MICKELSON: Well, they're welcome to change their time line, too.  I think that it's advantageous to actually know the team prior, because you can begin planning a lot easier, but they're welcome to change their rules, too.   
 Q.  What, for you personally, where does making 11 teams rank in your list of accomplishments?  And not just being on 11, but qualifying for 11.  
PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, that's something I'm pretty proud of.  It really is, because of the longevity and the consistency, that's a streak or a record that I'm very proud of.  I hope to continue it on through as well with the Presidents Cup, too.   
 Q.  When you were, back in the day, when you first were doing it, did you maybe not appreciate this being on these teams like you do now, having done it so many times?  I mean, when you made your first one or second one maybe you don't know what you don't know.  
PHIL MICKELSON: I always appreciated it, but I didn't know I would come to love them and have these weeks be my favorite weeks, the way they have become.  I didn't know that that would be the case, but I always really enjoyed them from the beginning.   
 Q.  What's the measure of whether this works?  Because, obviously, if you don't win this one, it's not about this year, you get a sense about it, down the road, at what point do you say, is it working or not?  
PHIL MICKELSON: Well, you don't want to get too tied up in the results, but certainly what we're looking at is, are we able to play our best golf.  That's the whole point is to play our best golf.  When you look at our opponent, the European team, many of the players on that team play their best golf of their entire career the weeks of the Ryder Cup.  And I think there's a lot to be said for having a camaraderie and a support system, working together, having a game plan, building each other up, pulling each other from lows and helping each other reach new highs.  And I see guys play some of their best golf that they have ever played in their career.  And I can go back to, not just like Sergio, Sergio, but I can go back to like Phillip Walton and Peter Baker and Phillip Price and Ignacio Garrido and even Seve and Jose Maria have played some of their best golf these weeks.  Monty.  Unbelievable the way they have played.   
I think that that's not a fluke I think that when you have a real team, a partnership, and you lift each other up to new highs and we haven't had that type of continuity, support system, game plan, structure, from year to year.   
So, what we'll ultimately look at is, are we playing our best golf the week of the Ryder Cup.  That's what we have to do to be successful to win.  We're not going to get it handed to us.  So, that will be the barometer.  What kind of scores are we shooting, how are we playing, that type of thing.   
 Q.  Everyone I talked to says you're great in the team room.  Who is Phil Mickelson in the team room and why is it important to be who you are in that team room?  
PHIL MICKELSON: I have learned from a long time ago that the relationships that you form the week of these team events, because you're dealing with such emotional highs and lows and challenges and excitement, that you create bonds that last a lifetime.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT