THE BARCLAYS
August 27, 2016
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  A tale of two nines today, the front nine you looked in total control.  You must be very excited by that play?  
PHIL MICKELSON: I had a good round going.  I played a good front nine, and hit some good shots.  Made some good birdies and had a number of opportunities.  The back nine, didn't play my best but I was fighting and staying right there, and unfortunately the last two holes weren't very good.   
It's very difficult to make a number of birdies out here, and so to give three shots away in two holes is disappointing.   
 Q.  Can you tell us about the difficulty of the golf course, obviously driving is at a premium, but the rest of the game needs to be very sharp.  And the ability to maneuver the irons has to be an advantage on these small targets?  
PHIL MICKELSON: It is.  The greens are a reasonable size, so if you can get the ball in the fairway, you should be able to hit the greens.  But they are tough to putt.  They are challenging.  They are getting a little glossy.  They can be challenging.  But if you get it hot, they are rolling true.  You can make some putts.   
Like you say, it was a tale of two nines.  I had it going the front nine.  I was in control of make something putts, hitting good shots, making birdies, and of course the game felt easy.   
Then the back nine, I started out missing the fairway on 10 and 11, and that makes those holes extremely difficult.  And I really didn't give myself many chances on the back, so it was a little disappointing.   
 Q.  Near miss at The Open Championship, you must be very excited about the opportunity the FedExCup Playoffs gives you?  
PHIL MICKELSON: I am excited about these four weeks.  I'm coming off three weeks off.  I'm fresh and ready and looking forward to playing all of them.  They are on golf courses that I really enjoy, especially next week at Boston and here at Bethpage, one of my favorites.   
Today was an opportunity I let slide a little bit to move up the leaderboard and get in position.  I think it's going to play difficult this afternoon for some of the guys, and I could probably have put myself in good position if I had played a solid back nine.   
But I love these courses.  I love the FedExCup, and if I can start to play the way I've been playing this year, I should give myself a few good opportunities.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT