THE 145TH OPEN
July 16, 2016
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  (Inaudible).  
PHIL MICKELSON: I was off today.  I didn't have my best stuff.  My rhythm was a little quick from the top as we started downwind.  I was a little bit jumpy and my rhythm wasn't very good today.  I found a way to kind of settle in and hit some shots and then find ways to make pars on the times that I hit some poor shots.   
Today could have been a day that got away from me, instead I shot under par and kept myself right in heading into tomorrow's final round, so I'm proud of that.  Andrew Getson and I have some work to do to get my swing back to where it was the first couple days, and it shouldn't be too far off.  I'd love to play tomorrow's final round the way I did the first two and give myself a shot.   
 Q.  The shot on 17, was that a (Inaudible).  
PHIL MICKELSON: It was not in between yards.  I just lunged forward.  I have a tendency to do that.  It will always be a tendency for me trying to keep the ball down.  My head from the top just moves forward and I become more vertical on the plane.  I can't match up my release and so forth.  So it's just technically I'm giving you a bunch of stuff.  It was an awful swing.   
 Q.  So do you see tomorrow as a matchplay situation?  
PHIL MICKELSON: No, not at all, no, I don't see that.   
 Q.  When you're sort of feeling off like that, how do you feel emotionally at this point with all the experience you've got?  Is there any sense of panic at all when shots go a little wayward?  
PHIL MICKELSON: I just feel like it comes and goes.  The game of golf it just comes and goes.  Most important thing is to find a way to get the ball in the hole, and that's what I did.  I found a way to get the ball in the hole, make pars, and that's all that I really care about.  Some days it's easy and it looks pretty like the first couple.  Some days it's hard and it looks terrible, like it did today.  But either way I shot three rounds under par.   
Tomorrow I know it's not far off because I was hitting it so good.  I've been hitting it so good for so long, that I just think one day is an anomaly and hopefully I'll get dialled back in tomorrow.   
 Q.  Was 12 the best at keeping it together?  
PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, I got lucky that that ball didn't go into the gorse even though I didn't have a back swing.  I still had a chance to advance it a little bit.  I still hit a good shot to advance it down the fairway like I did, and found a way to get up and down.  The pin was in a low spot.  I was able to use that backboard to help it and find a way to make a par.  But that's an example right there.  I've been hitting this 2-iron extremely straight.  Hitting the fairway with a very large finish at the time, and then I hit an awful shot there.  Like I said, the swing was just off a little bit.   
 Q.  Your approach has been very un-Phil-like the way you've gone about it, especially over here.  Is there any temptation to get out of that?  Has it been difficult to keep in that?  Or when you find success, it's like, yeah, hey, this is the only way to go?  
PHIL MICKELSON: When I tried to play a little bit more aggressive down the downwind holes, I started to get a little jumpy with my swing.  I started to get a little bit anxious.  That's not how I play my best.  Sometimes it's better to not be as aggressive.  I think it potentially cost me a couple of shots like on the par-5s, 4 and 6, by trying to get the ball down there too far.  If I hit the iron off the 4, I can still reach it with another iron.  If not on the green, right up by the green where I get up and down, and I think I made a bit of a mistake trying to hit driver down there and have a 6 or 7-iron in.   
It was a day where I tried to force it a little bit on the front nine going out.  I got out of rhythm and it was tough to get it back.  But I found a way to make a few good shots on the back 9 and shoot even par on a very difficult nine holes of golf.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT