FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
June 12, 2016
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Thank you, Phil.  You talked yesterday about wanting to tighten up your ball-striking and went to the range last night.  Seems like you found something yesterday.
PHIL MICKELSON: I hit it a lot better today.  The ball-striking last week was really good and just wasn't quite as sharp this week but my putter was there.
Trying to put the pieces together for next week.  This is a really good momentum builder heading into next week's challenge.
Q. How important is it to you to have a week like this going into a Major?
PHIL MICKELSON: I think it's really important for me.  It was for me to get into contention and feel the heat and to just get my game feeling sharp heading into next week.  It's a course that will severely punish poorly hit shots and reward well struck shots.  So, to have a little bit of momentum, have a little bit of confidence heading into next week is big time.
Q. Well, you gave him a run for his money.  Berger had it today.
PHIL MICKELSON: He played some great golf.  He made some birdies on the back-9 that kind of followed Steve and I did -- then we made a couple, Daniel followed, too.
He played a really good back-9.  Really good round of golf.  It was fun to be in the thick of things, fun to be in contention.
I had a couple opportunities there -- made a few mistakes early in the front-9 and had a couple opportunities on the back that I let slip but for the most part I hit a lot of good shots, played pretty well and seems -- it almost feels like U.S. Open came a week early to finish another 2nd place.
I'm excited to take the momentum that I built here in Memphis on a golf course I really enjoy and take it over to Oakmont and see if I can capture my first Open.
Q. You felt good coming in here.  Did you find anything else that gives you confidence?
PHIL MICKELSON: Last week I struck the ball very well.  This week I putted very well.  If I put them both together next week it's going to be a good week.  I struck it much better today.  Hit a lot more good shots and enjoyed the day.  I just couldn't quite catch him but I'm coming out of this week with a lot of positives and some good momentum.
Q. Daniel said once he won on Tour he could call you Philip.
PHIL MICKELSON: I just saw him inside.  Philip it is.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT