U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 18, 2016
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Arduous day yesterday and to have to come back?  
PHIL MICKELSON: It was a challenging day, but I think it's a real tribute to the course and the setup and the U.S. Open challenge of how the scores -- how you have a discrepancy in the scores, where there were holes you could make birdie, and you saw guys shoot under par.   
I felt like it was a very fair setup.  If you played well, there were pins you could get to.  You could make some birdies.  There were some very challenging pars.   
I actually thought I played really well, except I let four or five par putts kind of slide, and all of a sudden I'd be 2 over and right in it.  You can't do that here because you don't have those birdie opportunities to offset it, offset those mistakes.  I didn't have very many birdie opportunities.  My irons were -- they don't feel bad, but they're just a fraction off.  Instead of hitting it 15 feet, giving myself chances, I'm 30 feet, 40 feet, and fighting just to make par.   
Hopefully, I'll make the cut.  I believe that I will.  If so and I have an opportunity, you just never know on this golf course.  We've seen low scores.  I don't feel like I have to search for anything on the range.  I feel like my game is there, but my scoring hasn't been what I want the first two days.   
I mean, as challenging as it was yesterday, I really enjoyed the challenge.  I didn't score the way I would have liked to, but I enjoyed the challenge.  It's a fun opportunity to really test yourself when a course is set up like this that will reward good shots and penalize severely poorly struck ones.  I actually -- I just think that the course setup has been perfect, and it's going to get a little bit firmer and faster as we go on, which will be great.   
 Q.  Do you feel disappointed that you weren't able to get more looks at birdie out there?  
PHIL MICKELSON: Well, of course.  I'd like to be right around par, but it's a tough test.  We still have 36 holes left -- hopefully.  Hopefully, I do.  You never know.  There's some birdie opportunities out there.  I feel like I'm playing well enough to do it, but I just need a chance right now.   
 Q.  You think 7 over will --  
PHIL MICKELSON: I would be surprised if I didn't make it.  I think 7 over will make it.   
 Q.  So you think there will be some big scores out there this afternoon?  
PHIL MICKELSON: No.  I just think that I need less than half the field to move behind me, and I would -- just doing the math, it should work.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT