ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 6, 2020
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PHIL MICKELSON: I hit a little 5-iron into there.   
 Q.  It was a 5-iron?  
PHIL MICKELSON: 5-iron.   
 Q.  230?  
PHIL MICKELSON: Well it was downwind, but it was 244 hole. And anyway, so gave myself a chance to make the cut. I needed to birdie one of the last two.   
 Q.  Overall, what are your reactions on the week?  
PHIL MICKELSON: I'll tell you, this is, I thought it was a really hard golf course, and I enjoyed the challenge of trying to play on these type of conditions. And I'm a little frustrated that I haven't gotten off to the start this year I would like, but it doesn't feel like -- I'm not discouraged. I don't feel like I'm that far off, but yesterday's score was a little disappointing.   
 Q.  On the last hole there, did you feel like you absolutely needed birdie there --  
PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah.   
 Q.  -- or with the conditions maybe it could go to 3. Did you think about that?  
PHIL MICKELSON: I didn't think that. I saw 79 guys and the cut's 65. I didn't see that many people falling back, so I figured I had to make a birdie and I plugged it in the bunker.   
 Q.  What are you looking at now after obviously next week? Are you focused on making sure you're in the Match Play or does that not matter? I don't know if you would fall out or not.  
PHIL MICKELSON: I don't know, I haven't thought about it. I haven't thought about that. I'll play next week and then I'm not really sure. Heading into the Majors my schedule's kind of in flux in all of them because it just doesn't really, I'm not real excited about the tournaments that are the week before. They don't really help you in the Majors and yet I like to play, so I don't really have a good set formula to head into the Majors this year.   
 Q.  What will you do the next couple days?  
PHIL MICKELSON: I'm not sure. I haven't decided. I don't know. We'll see. I have to go back and take a minute and figure it out.   
 Q.  Would it matter, Phil, if you went, take for instance, you don't want to play the Texas Open at that golf course. Would it matter if you went to a good place and just played for four days or do you need it to be a tournament?  
PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, I don't know. It's hard to get conditions like this, like a tournament condition, right? I mean, when are you going to see greens at 13 with crosswinds and rough that, like, that's hack out and fairways that are 27-yards wide. You just can't find a setup like that until you get out on TOUR. Even like the Korn Ferry TOUR and every other TOUR, the European Tour, they're just not set up the same. So I find the best way to get acclimated to those conditions and compete is to play on TOUR.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT