THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE
June 2, 2016
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
PHIL MICKELSON: A lot of good scores today.   
 Q.  Can you explain 14?  
PHIL MICKELSON: I could try, but it probably wouldn't satisfy any questions that I still had.  I had 133 to the hole, and I hit pitching wedge, and it kind of jumped on me obviously.  It landed in the grandstands, hit hard, and then flew over the grandstands, hit the cart path, and went in the water.  That's why I went back and rehit.   
So instead of pitching wedge, I hit sand wedge onto the green, and ended up making a putt for a bogey.  So go figure.  It was looking like 5 either way or worse.   
 Q.  So the next hole, you hit a marshal?  
PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, I saw the ball shoot across the fairway, but usually when you hit somebody, you'll see people congregate.  So I thought maybe it hit a cart or hit something else, but it hit this guy in the head.  He looked like Ali taking hits because he didn't go down.  He didn't go down at all.  He was just laughing about it.  Yeah, no big deal.  Hit me in the head.  And the ball went shooting across the fairway from the right rough into the left rough.  I don't know how it did.  He was smiling.  I don't know.  He just -- I don't know how he took it.  That was impressive.   
 Q.  You gave him a glove?  
PHIL MICKELSON: Well, he was a marshal.  So he's helping out for the week.  So I was thanking him for his time, and that was it.  I've not seen anybody take a hit like -- I've hit a lot of people, a lot of people.  Nobody's taken it that well as marshal did on 15.   
 Q.  You should put him on concussion protocol.  
PHIL MICKELSON: I didn't see -- it must have landed under his hat because I didn't see any contusions or anything.   
 Q.  So despite those two instances, happy with what you did out there?  
PHIL MICKELSON: I hit a lot of good shots today.  I hit a lot of good shots.  Although I hit ten fairways, two of them were in the first cut.  I feel like I'm going to hit a lot of fairways this week, and if I do that, my iron play's really good right now.   
I probably let a few shots slide on the back, some short putts that I've been putting really well lately, but I let a couple go on 11 and 12.  So I probably -- I feel like I left a few out there, but I hit a lot of good shots.   
I'm pleased with the way I'm striking, and I can't wait to get back out tomorrow morning and play because I feel like I can take advantage of the course now.   
 Q.  A lot of low scores.  Is it about as receptive as you've seen it?  What's going on?  
PHIL MICKELSON: It's the best condition I've seen it, but the reason the scores are low is the greens are a little more receptive, and that's allowing us to attack the pins and get the ball to stop.  Also when we do miss a green, that first bound when you chip is taking a lot of the energy out, and it's kind of dying off its first bounce and softly releasing.  That first bounce chipping is critical because, if it hits hard, you can't control it.  So we've been able to recover.  My point is, if you do hit a bad shot, you can still recover because the greens are a little bit more receptive.   
 Q.  Phil, we neglected to ask you yesterday how it feels to be potentially the last champion at Muirfield?  
PHIL MICKELSON: Because of the Presidents Cup?   
 Q.  Because they're not --  
PHIL MICKELSON: Oh, last champion at the other Muirfield, right.   
 Q.  Sorry about that.  
PHIL MICKELSON: I mean, we're here at Muirfield, right.   
I haven't thought about it, but I guess that would be kind of cool, you know.  It's a pretty cool honor.  I was looking at -- one of the members from the club gave me a marker that had the names of all the winners from Muirfield of The Open, and I just -- it means a lot to me to be on that list.  There's some really great players throughout the years, and to be part of that group, it really means a lot to me as a player, especially when that's the only Open that I've won.   
 Q.  How would you explain to your daughters how a minority part of this membership does not want their kind to be a member of their club?  
PHIL MICKELSON: I'm not going to go down that road right now.  I've got enough issues to deal with, but thanks.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT