SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
March 31, 2016
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PHIL MICKELSON: The good thing for me, my bad rounds now are respectable.  This puts me in a position where if I shoot a number like I feel like I'm capable of, I should be right back in it for the weekend.   
 Q.  You were over at Augusta the last few days.  I know that one part of you I'm sure is looking a little bit ahead.  You're a former winner here.  What is it about this golf course that you like that gets you ready for next week?  
PHIL MICKELSON: I actually think that it's more just about getting in a competitive frame of mind.  I like the way the course is set up.  The fairways and the just off the fairway, the first cut is similar to Augusta.  But the greens are different grasses.  They don't have as much contour.  You can't hit drivers.  You're handcuffed on every tee box.  Everything pinches in at 300.  Augusta, you're trying to lead on every hole.  There's some areas where it's not really beneficial, but I'm just here to try to get sharp.  I want my game being sharp.  I enjoy the tournament.  I think it's a fabulous event.  The condition of this golf course, I'm always amazed at how well the condition is, it's one of the best we have on Tour, year-in, year-out.  Given it's a public course makes it even more impressive, I believe.   
 Q.  All the best over the next couple days.  I know you'd like to be a two-time champion, I'm sure.  
PHIL MICKELSON: Thanks.   
 Q.  Phil, pretty solid out there today.  The humidity levels are up.  Balls kind of carrying or getting knocked down?  
PHIL MICKELSON: I don't know what to say because you had the warmth but also the air.  I was having a little bit of hard time getting -- hitting my iron shots close, getting the right distance.  I probably overthought it a little bit.  It wasn't playing very difficult.  There was a lot of opportunities, lot of birdie opportunities out there.  Unfortunately I had three penalty strokes and didn't really play the way I feel like I've been playing and the way I feel I'm capable of.  The good news, my poor scores are respectable.  69, good round tomorrow should get me back in it.   
 Q.  The shot on the last hole probably the best shot of the today, 230 yards to the number.  Almost went in.  Went by the hole on left side by about 3 inches.  
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT