WGC CADILLAC CHAMPIONSHIP
March 5, 2016
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Can you take us through your round today?  
PHIL MICKELSON: I shot 2-under, and 2 was kind of a boring round.  I didn't make very many birdies.  I didn't make very many mistakes.  But I hit the ball very well, but I didn't hit it close enough to make birdies.  I only shot 2-under.   
 Q.  Tomorrow in the final round, how are you going to play?  
PHIL MICKELSON: I have to make a lot of birdies tomorrow.  But I have an opportunity to go out ahead of the leaders and to shoot a really low round and put pressure on them to try to make birdies.  On this golf course, when you try to force birdies, you can often make mistakes and that's my game plan tomorrow is to get off to a good start, play a good, solid round and see how low I can shoot and put some pressure on the leaders.   
 Q.  How difficult was it with the changed in wind?  
PHIL MICKELSON: I thought the pin positions were more difficult to get to.  You had to be much more conservative, they were a lot more tucked.  The wind, although it was a different direction, it wasn't anything stronger or more difficult than the first couple days.  I thought getting to a lot of these pins was difficult.  I hit a lot of good golf shots but I wasn't able to get it close enough to get inside birdie range and I only made three birdies today.   
 Q.  You're still very much a part of this golf tournament.  In terms of strategy, are you going to wait and see what the flags look like early on the front nine?  
PHIL MICKELSON: Playing conservative has not really been an issue for me, but I have to get off to a good start if I expect to win.  And when you make birdies out here ahead of the leaders, forcing them to make birdies to follow suit, often times you force the issue and you end up making mistakes.  That's the goal for me tomorrow is put the leaders in a position where they have to try to make birdies to keep pace, and if I can do that, I have a good shot.   
 Q.  In closing, generally speaking, after you made the brave decisions you've made recently and worked so hard, how satisfying to see this great play over this last stretch?  
PHIL MICKELSON: It's just a lot of fun for me, and it's fun because I know that when I show up, I'm going to play well.  I know I'm going to hit it well.  I know the swing is going to be there.  It's just a very enjoyable experience and I know I'm going to be in contention and have a chance.  The game is starting to feel easy again.  The challenge for me is to be patient because I want instant gratification, instant results, and I've got to be patient and just kind of let it keep building.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT