AT&T PEBBLE BEACH PRO-AM
February 7, 2020
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Big move up the leaderboard in the second round and, Phil, after Thursday's performance you said you drove it like a stallion. What words would you use to describe today's effort?  
PHIL MICKELSON: Average at best. The fairways are pretty wide here and I hit a couple wayward drives early. But then I drove it well the back nine and gave myself some chances. But I made a lot of birdies. It was a fun day.   
 Q.  We talked earlier in the week about something you identified and addressed last week in Saudi Arabia, thinking a little bit better around the golf course and visualizing. How have you keep that going from a week ago here this week?  
PHIL MICKELSON: That's been a big part of it. It feels like the last piece because the other aspects of my game have felt really good. But I haven't been putting it together until the last couple weeks, so I'm hopeful that I'll continue it going into tomorrow. And there's nothing better if you are a golfer and you love this game than playing Pebble Beach on a beautiful day and we're anticipating some good weather tomorrow.   
 Q.  You talked about your love of Pebble and the history with your family. What does it mean maybe advantage-wise to have back-to-back rounds there over the weekend?  
PHIL MICKELSON: I don't know if there's really an advantage, per se, but having some history there and knowing how to play the course given some varied conditions, especially if we get a little bit of wind, I think it will come in handy. But I just love being out there. I love walking along the ocean, hitting shots, and playing one of the greatest golf courses in the world.   
 Q.  The coin working for you today?  
PHIL MICKELSON: It seems to, yeah. Yeah, I've been putting well. It's been good.   
 Q.  Anything different with what you've been doing putting-wise or what do you feel like has been clicking this week?  
PHIL MICKELSON: So I feel like I have been playing at this level starting the year and I missed two cuts. And the only difference is I just haven't been visualizing as well and seeing what I want to do. And then last week I started to control my thoughts a little bit better, and then this week I've just carried it over.   
 Q.  Any adjustment when you lose a lot of weight like have you with your swing?  
PHIL MICKELSON: So I could see where that could be in the past, but the reason I would not agree, don't think it's a factor is that my strength has not diminished. Like, I'm still lifting the same amount of weight and actually more. And sometimes you can be frail when you lose weight but I haven't had that issue. I've been making sure that I maintain muscle mass.   
 Q.  You're set to play next week as well, right?  
PHIL MICKELSON: I added it yesterday or the day before. I'm not happy with the first two weeks of the year, the way I started, and I want to play while I feel like I'm playing well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT