THE PRESIDENTS CUP
October 11, 2015
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You've been a leader on the golf course; how would you sum up this day and this week for you?
PHIL MICKELSON: It's an awesome, awesome week I think for everybody.  There was some great golf played in very difficult conditions.  I thought our captain made a pretty strong move putting his son last, and his son came through.  I mean, Bill played some great golf coming down the stretch to win the final crucial point for the U.S. side.
Q. The players rallied around you to get Jay to make you a captain's pick, and everything that you have experienced, where does this rank in all of the team events that you've played in?
PHIL MICKELSON: That meant more to me than anything, having the players be involved and having me on this team.  I've had so much fun being around them.  This is really a great group of guys.  The young guys on both teams that are taking over the reins, they are quality, quality, classy guys and the game of golf is in great shape.  You saw some great golf this week, and it was fun for me to be a part of it.
Q. After getting your victory, what was the tension like watching all of this play out in the final few matches?
PHIL MICKELSON: We didn't want to see it end the way it did on 18, but it sure was exciting the entire day.  Our guys on both sides really fought hard, played hard, and it was like I thought at the start of the week, I thought it was going to come down to a single point, and sure enough, it did.
Q. Talking about your game as you move forward, traditionally you take a lot of the fall off.  Are you going to do that?  And secondly, has this inspired your game a bit, the way you've played this week?
PHIL MICKELSON: The last three months, I've really been working hard on my game.  I've had some technical issues.  I've had some swing plane issues.  And although it was 80 percent there this week, early in my match today, I revert back to my old ways.
I've got three months the way I see it to get ready for next year.  And I think the way I feel physically, and the way I am motivated right now, I think that I still have some of my best golf ahead of me, I really believe that.  But of a few technical issues I've struggled with the last couple years that I intend to fix.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT