THE PRESIDENTS CUP
October 11, 2015
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You told me a couple weeks ago, when you were selected for this team by Captain Jay Haas with the vote of confidence from all the guys on the team, it meant more to you than any other.  How would you describe this week for you?  
PHIL MICKELSON: It was an emotional week for me, because I haven't played my best the past couple years.  The last few months, I could feel it starting to turn, and the fact that the guys on the team went to Captain Haas and wanted me on the team was an emotional thing; and the fact that I was able to play some of my better golf this week means a lot.  I can feel my game starting to turn.  I have three months to get sharp and get ready for next year and I'm excited.   
Also, if I can saying in really quick, a friend of mine, Baby Ryu (ph), who is two and a half years old, just got diagnosed with leukemia.  Just wanted to say hello, and let her know the Mickelson family is pulling for them.   
This has been really a special week for me because I'm here because the guys chose for me to be here, not because I played my way on the team this last year or two.  I'm so proud to play with Zach Johnson and the way we scored, and the team was strong, too, and hopefully we'll be able to finish this off and get a win for Jay Haas.  He's been a wonderful captain and he and Jan are just the epitome of class.   
 Q.  Were you a different Phil maybe this year than other years?  
PHIL MICKELSON: Well, Jay kind of gave me the freedom to just be; me and sometimes I say and do some dumb stuff, and sometimes I can help some guys lighten the tension because we all feel pressure.  Even though we have done very well in this event for a number of years, we still feel pressure.  We're representing our country and we're representing our teammates and we feel responsible when we don't play our best, we feel accountable to others, not just ourselves.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT