BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 16, 2015
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What did you think of the course today?
PHIL MICKELSON: It's wonderful.  It's in great shape, and we had a great day today.  I think it's going to be a great site for the event.  It's in great shape, and it's a fun test.
Q. There's been some work done since last year; they replaced the greens, some little tweaks around the golf course.  Does it look any different than what you saw two years ago?
PHIL MICKELSON: I guess my memory is not as sharp from two years ago to remember all the subtleties and nuances, but it seemed like, again, it was in great shape and a fun course to play, challenging but fair, and a really great site for this third leg of the Playoffs.
Q. Do you have to be top three do you think to advance?
PHIL MICKELSON: I don't know.  I don't know.  I just need to play well and go from there.
Q. Do you take an even more aggressive mindset than usual?
PHIL MICKELSON: No, not really.  It's actually a course where you need to get the ball in the fairway first.  There's plenty of width but you don't need to overpower it.  You don't want to overpower it.  The rough is challenging, but if you get in the fairway, you can attack a lot of the pins.
Q. With a threat of rain and possibly some lower temperatures, how would your approach to this course differ?
PHIL MICKELSON: If it rained and it was softer, it would play longer, yes, but I think the softer greens would allow the players to make some birdies to get to some of those tucked pins.
Q. Obviously the weather will play a role, but last time Jim had 59, a couple other guys had low 60s.  Is there a score like that out there this week?
PHIL MICKELSON: I don't know.  I didn't see 59 last year.  I thought a good round might be 63 or 64 maybe if you played great, but he bested that by four or five shots.  That was a 59 that was on a golf course that wasn't designed to hold a 59.  He just played a remarkable round.  It's been shot before, but it's been shot at courses where the average score is 4- or 5-under par, and this course, I think even par was the average score that day.  It was just remarkable.
Q. Is your enthusiasm any different knowing you have the Presidents Cup on the horizon?
PHIL MICKELSON: I am excited.  I'm excited to play this year.  This is the most excited I've been this late in the year because I'm looking forward to being on the team.  It's meant a lot to me to be a part of that team, and I want to play well and I want to get some momentum.  Also, it gave me a little bit of a boost, and my game feels like it's been coming around and feels fairly sharp, so we'll see.  But I'm more excited to be playing right now than I have at any time at this point in quite a few years.
Q. Have you been following the Cubs pretty closely?
PHIL MICKELSON: I'm excited to see them in the Playoffs.  I think it makes for an exciting time, and I know Bill Murray who's right behind us is really pumped up, one of the biggest Cubs fans there is, and it's great for baseball.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT