THE BARCLAYS
August 27, 2015
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Some thoughts on your day?
PHIL MICKELSON: It was a good round.  I got off to a good start.  Boy, a hot little round there.  It stalled a little bit.
But the great thing about Plainfield is that there are some hard holes, some really hard par holes and some really easy birdie holes; and the mixture of birdies to bogeys is what makes this golf course fun and exciting.  You saw that in my round today; that I made a lot of birdies and I bogeyed a lot of the hard holes.
Q. You talked at the PGA about having good rounds and losing your focus late.  Is that kind of what happened on the back nine today?
PHIL MICKELSON: I didn't feel like I lost focus today.  I just made a couple of bogeys.  I actually played the front, I felt, okay.  I missed some fairways coming in and then I'm fighting for pars, I wasn't even thinking birdies.  But my front nine, when I hit the fairways, I was thinking -- I was able to think birdie and attack, and that's a big difference.
Q. Do you feel like you've got a good feeling for this golf course?
PHIL MICKELSON: I do enjoy this course a lot.  I love the greens.  The greens are the defense of the golf course.  They are the challenge of the course.  They are very undulating and quick, and I really like the golf course.  I've always liked Donald Ross courses, but I really like Plainfield.
Q. Generally when you like a course, is it easier to score on it?
PHIL MICKELSON: It is easier to score on because you appreciate the greatness and the subtleties and the nuances and you see how again, there are opportunities out here, if you play it right, to make a lot of birdies.  And there's also opportunities to make a lot of bogeys, but if you play it right and make pars, you can pick up a lot of ground.
So every hole provides an opportunity to separate yourself from the lead.  There's not these mundane 230-yard par 3s that everybody is going to hit it 30 to 60 feet and make par.  There are going to be a lot of birdies and bogeys here.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT