PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2015
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Sometimes those even par rounds where you're battling all day long mean a lot come Sunday.
PHIL MICKELSON: Well, it does.  In those conditions, the round could have gotten away from me.  I've been hitting the ball very well these last couple of days, I was so confident coming in here and I was just a fraction off.  I missed every shot left there the back nine.  It wasn't a ton off, but it was off.  And I was able to shoot even par.  If I get it just a small tweak for tomorrow, I think in the morning conditions with a little softer wind there's, there might be a really low round out there.
Q. What was it out there today that made it so tough, was it not necessarily just the velocity of the wind but where it came from was a little different than what we have seen here?
PHIL MICKELSON: I feel like the golf course is very fair in that the fairways are generous, the greens are generous, but it's not a course where you can recover.  If you miss greens, like I did on left of 17, you're more inclined to make double or triple than you are to salvage a par.
But, there's, it's not impossible or not overly difficult to hit a good solid shot, it will be on the green, it will be rewarded.  I think that's why everybody likes Whistling Straits so much is that quality golf shots always get rewarded.  They don't get punished like often times at Major Championships will occur.  Here, you get rewarded every time for a great shot.  But, it's very hard to recover here.  You hit a bad shot and some of the bad ones like I did, and you immediately throw par out of your mind and you're just fighting for bogey.
Q. Go get some rest.  Thanks for your time.  I'll see you early in the morning.
PHIL MICKELSON: Thank you.
Q. (No Microphone.)
PHIL MICKELSON: It was okay.  I didn't have to take it head on, but I couldn't go at the pin, the, it was not a very good lie and when I was down there I was just trying to find a way to make a 4.  Because I couldn't get at the pin.  I was really worried about hitting two or three shots and staying down there.  So I was glad to get it out.
I was able to hit it kind of angled, so I didn't hit it head on, so it wasn't as bad.
Q. Is this the best you could have gotten out of this round do you think?
PHIL MICKELSON: Gosh, I felt like I was so close to hitting some better shots than I hit.  Certainly I didn't hit it close, I didn't have a lot of birdie opportunities and even par was probably about as good as I was going to do, but I didn't feel like it was as far off as it probably looked, because I had hit it so well the last couple of days.  I was really optimistic.  But you're in the going to hit it great all four rounds and I fought hard to keep myself in the tournament after this first day.  I know that it's not, it's just a small click away and I'll start hitting the fairways.
Q. Seemed like every time TV picked you up you were coming out of the bunker.  How many bunkers were you in today?
PHIL MICKELSON: I don't know, I lost count by probably hole 8 or 9.
Q. So a large amount.
PHIL MICKELSON: Probably, yeah.  I got up-and-down out of most of them.  The ones that I had a chance, anyways.
Q. (No microphone.)
PHIL MICKELSON: I don't, I don't, but it seemed like it was the same as it was a year and a half ago, so I didn't really see anything new.
Q. Does it affect your preparation here, is it wearing on you?
PHIL MICKELSON: No, because I know, I know how inaccurate so much of that stuff is that I'm not worried, no.
Q. Would you be happy to see the exact same conditions tomorrow?
PHIL MICKELSON: Not at all.  Are you kidding?
Q. No, that you play early, you get what they got and then they get what you got.
PHIL MICKELSON: That would be, that would be very fair for the tournament, but it's very rarely does that happen.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT