THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2015
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Talk about today.PHIL MICKELSON: There's some low rounds out there.  You know, I had chances.  We all had chances.  You know, it's obvious I didn't have the round today to get me in it for tomorrow, but I still enjoy my time here at St. Andrews.  I still appreciate being able to play here, and I've actually hit a lot more good shots than the score would indicate.  I can feel myself getting closer and closer, but I've just had a hard time putting it all together, but I've still enjoyed the week.  I've enjoyed the last two weeks, actually.  Family has been over here.  It's been fun.Q. And now I guess you can go out with a bang and put a low one in tomorrow?PHIL MICKELSON: Well, I'm going to go out tomorrow and really just enjoy the day, enjoy the day around St. Andrews and see if I can stay sharp and play some good golf or shoot a score I know I'm capable of shooting.  It's close to clicking, it just hasn't quite happened yet.Q. What have been the major hold backs in your game this week?PHIL MICKELSON: It's hard to say, but it just hasn't quite all come together.  There's been a lot of good shots but just haven't quite put it together.Q. Is it one of those things that was okay on the range but didn't transfer to the course?PHIL MICKELSON: Possibly, yeah, possibly.  But either way, it's been a fun week.  I just haven't quite played my best or shot the scores I'd like.  But it doesn't feel far off.  I feel like I'm closer every week.  It's hard to be patient when it's not quite coming together, but I feel like I'm striking the ball better and better.Q. Is it frustrating when this morning you looked out the window and the rain had probably made the greens softer and you think, this could be a day when you could really --PHIL MICKELSON: It is a day.  We saw one guy shoot 8-under.  I think there's a 9- or 10-under par round out there.  I think somebody is going to shoot that today.  It's out there if you play well and just make a few putts.  It's interesting to see who will do that.  Harrington had it going there, and I wouldn't be surprised if he finished strong and did it.Q. You played with Dustin earlier in the week.  What are you seeing out of him out here?PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, he was the favourite going into the week, I thought, and he continues to be.  I think if he plays the way he's been playing, I think he's going to end up winning it.  But there's a lot of guys right there, it's just I think he's going to keep pulling away and shooting low scores.Q. Is there a number you have in mind tomorrow or do you think you're slightly too far back?PHIL MICKELSON: It depends on the weather, just depends on the weather, so not really, no.Q. Obviously you came from behind quite a bit there when you won.PHIL MICKELSON: I felt, going into the last day, I was 2-over par. If I could get it to under par, I wanted to shoot 2-under on the front and get it back to even, and then play the back side in under par, and I felt like that was going to be enough to do it, even though 3-under was leading, I just felt like the golf course was so difficult that the score relatively to par was more important than who's ahead of me.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT