ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 10, 2015
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. A round which wasn't going to plan through 12 holes here.  A couple over today.PHIL MICKELSON: You can't overwork it.  I was pleased with the way the entire day was ball-striking wise.  For me to make the cut the way I putted the first two days is surprising. I feel really good about some of the things I've been work on in my golf swing.  The last piece will be the putter.  I don't want to worry about that right now.  I feel really good hitting a lot of shots.  Hit a lot of good shots today, drove it well. I feel like I've kind of made a turn here in the last few weeks with my ball striking, been very pleased with it.  Now I've got to focus in on the putter.  I haven't gotten the ball started online very well certainly these couple of days and probably the last month or so.  That's a much easier fix than the golf swing.  I will sit down on a few putting tracks and devices and see if I can get that ironed out for this weekend and for next week.Q. Your approach shot on 14?PHIL MICKELSON: I hit a 9-iron there where I worked it with the wind.  I was hitting a little fade with a little touch of right-to-left wind and it ended up about 10 or 12 feet just past the hole there.Q. You go on to birdie 15 and then another wonderful short game shot on 16.  Tell us about that one.PHIL MICKELSON: I just took a 60 degree wedge and played it back in my stance and hit a low-running shot into that slope.  The slope was pitched in and then it went away here at the end.  Had a little tap-in that was a nice little shot.Q. (Indiscernible) was commenting yesterday when he was on the course with you that you are forward pressing a little bit different in your putting stroke.  Is that something you are aware of?PHIL MICKELSON: Yesterday I didn't have much forward press and today I had a little bit more.  Like I say, I haven't really focused in on putting yet.  I'm not exactly doing what I want.  The ball striking and the swing, which I have been working on in the last few weeks or months, has really settled in.  It's back on plane.  The ball is exiting -- the club is exiting where -- the ball is taking off where I want it to.  I feel very confident there.  I have got to get the putter worked out, and in all fairness I haven't spent the time on it.Q. I know that you were planning a trip down to Murfield to relive the memories of winning The Open in '13.  Have you done that yet?  Could this afternoon be the time?PHIL MICKELSON: I'll either go this afternoon or tomorrow afternoon or both


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT