U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 19, 2015
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Obviously to make the cut --PHIL MICKELSON: It was a tough day.  It wasn't that far off.  I had three three-putts and struggled on that surface area near the hole and I couldn't get the ball in.  And I didn't quite hit it quite as well as yesterday, but it wasn't that bad.  It was controlled misses that were reasonable misses, but I just didn't get the ball in the hole. I'll have to come out tomorrow and kind of get a good game plan and figure out how to shoot something in the mid 60s and get back in it.  Very difficult for anybody to run away with it. But I'm going to have to hopefully get conditions in the morning that are a little bit easier and then progressively get more difficult for the leaders, because that's really my only chance to catch up.Q. I'm sure you must be encouraged that it didn't get too far away from you.PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah.  I fought hard throughout the day, making pars, just trying to get through it and give myself a chance if I can get hot. There are birdies to be had out here, you can do it.  We're seeing it done.  You've got backstops. When the golf course gets firmer it doesn't necessarily mean it plays harder, because you don't have to stop it in a short period like you do in so many courses, normal Opens.  We have the ability to use a backstop.  And so we can still play the golf course and make birdies under firm conditions. But I'll have to figure out a way to get in that last short area near the hole, see if I can get the ball to go in.Q. Were you having more trouble just getting putts to drop?  You had chances.PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, I had a lot of chances.  A had three three-putts.  I three-putted the 12th, that par-4.  I three-putted 10, which hurt, and 18.  So right in the middle of my round I three-putted 18 and 10.  That was when I was really fighting to stay right in it. I could have used a little bit of a boost there to keep me around par.  But it's a U.S. Open and it happens.  And everybody is going to go through a tough spell.  I fought through mine.  Hopefully my only one, but that's unlikely.  I need to get a hot hand tomorrow.Q. Is this tougher than you've seen the golf course over any stretch?PHIL MICKELSON: Not tee to green.  There's nothing about it that's unfair.  It's totally fair setup.  Plenty of room to hit it.  Tee to green, I think it's very excellent test.  The surface area around the hole is a bit challenging for everybody. So I've got to cut myself some slack, because everybody is facing the same challenges, but I do need to find a way to get it in the hole.Q. Were the greens in the same condition a couple of weeks ago when you were here?PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, you could tell it was going to be an interesting week, yeah.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT