FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
June 12, 2015
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Phil, you talked yesterday about just trying to get more opportunities.   And you got a lot of birdie opportunities again, they just didn't go in.
PHIL MICKELSON:   I hit a lot more good shots I felt than I did yesterday.   I know the score is one higher.   I hit a lot more good shots, more tee shots, good iron shots.   This is what I was looking for to try to improve on the day.   I feel after I played the first two days, a good low round is right on the verge and hopefully that will be tomorrow.   You never know.   I hit a lot more good shots today than I have and it feels good.

Q.   Do you feel like the greens owe you a little bit after all those burners on the edge?
PHIL MICKELSON:   They don't owe me anything.   They're trickier because they're fast.   You have to read them just perfectly.   You can't take a lot of the speed out, and I had a couple that just went right over the edge on the back-9 that really could have given me some momentum heading into the weekend.   Unfortunately, they didn't quite fall.   There were a lot of pin placements I wasn't able -- I didn't feel like I could go after, I had to play away from.   You got to make the 15, 20-footer you have.   I didn't make those.
I hit a lot of good shots.   I had a really good day today.   I had a really good range session a couple hours before I played.   The swing is starting to feel a lot better.   I feel a lot more confident on where the ball is going to go, and so hopefully I'll be able to put it together tomorrow and have a good round to get in contention.

Q.   When you look at that leaderboard, you see it posted at 9, you're at 3.   Is it a course that you can make a move on tomorrow?
PHIL MICKELSON:   It's a course I find that when you get it going, you can shoot a good number of 5, 6, 7-under par.   When you're not making birdies like I was today, it's just that much harder to make birdies because there aren't holes that are just gimme birdies that that can kind of kick-start your round.   You got to hit a good tee shot and second shot.   You have to make a putt.   There are very few tap-ins.   It's a course you can make up a lot of ground if you get a hot round going.

Q.   Thoughts about tomorrow.   You're working at your game?
PHIL MICKELSON:   I enjoyed having a late tee time today.   It gave me a chance to go out and have a morning practice session.   I won't do that tomorrow.   I'll try to conserve energy and put it all into the round of golf and see if I can get off to a good start and shoot a low round.   But if I can shoot 5, 6, 7-under par I'll be right in contention for Sunday. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT