FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
June 10, 2015
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Where is your game right now?   
PHIL MICKELSON:   It's hard to say.   I didn't play the best on the weekend last week.   I thought I was ready to play well and compete.   I usually don't play well after taking a few weeks off.   That first week I'm a little rusty.   I had a good couple of days Monday and Tuesday trying to work on my game, and I think that I'm curious to see how that pays off because I really like the golf course here, and it's the second week.   I was able to identify some areas I've got to work on.   I tried to address them, but you never know until you get in competition and you're really putting forth your best effort to see what number you're shooting.  
   
 Q.   When you look at the stats for this season, is it one of those situations where it just hasn't happened for you scoring‑wise but you feel that maybe it's about to happen?  
PHIL MICKELSON:   After playing well and coming close at Augusta, playing well at Charlotte, I felt like I was about to turn the corner.   I didn't play well at Memorial, obviously, but I feel like it's not far away, so we'll see where it goes today.   I'm going to try to get a little bit of momentum heading into the U.S. Open next week, and hopefully I'll have a good tournament this week.  
   
 Q.   How did the course look today?  
PHIL MICKELSON:   It's in great shape.   It always is.   It's really a wonderful golf course.   I think it's one of the most underrated courses or the most underrated course we have on TOUR.   I think that it's such a straightforward, fun test of golf, and if you hit good shots, you get rewarded with good putts at birdies, and if you miss the greens, you're challenged by a very good up‑and‑down.   I like everything about Southwind.   I don't think it gets the credit it deserves, but it's really a wonderful layout.  
   
 Q.   Is that what makes it a good preparation for you going into next week, even though the courses aren't the same?  
PHIL MICKELSON:   What makes it a good preparation for me is just the competition, the fact that I'm going to be out trying to focus on each shot, trying to control my misses, hit good shots, make birdies, and really try to get into contention, and that type of mental preparation can only really occur in competition.   It's hard to replicate it at home.  
   
 Q.   The Career Grand Slam obviously is something that people talk to you about.   Until you get that U.S. Open, how much do you think about that as you head into the week of the U.S. Open?   Is that something that comes to the forefront realizing that's the only one you're missing?  
PHIL MICKELSON:   I think about it a lot after the Masters is over and the upcoming major is the U.S. Open.   I've got a couple months to really think about it and prepare.   So I have been thinking about it quite a bit and trying to get ready the last few months.   I really like Chambers Bay.   I think, again, it's an underrated golf course.   I think that it's a lot like St. Andrews in that the first time you play St. Andrews you don't quite get it.   It doesn't make sense.   And then when you play it over and over and you realize what types of shots and where you're supposed to go, it all makes sense, and I think Chambers Bay is a lot like that.  
   
 Q.   You finished second here a couple of years ago, 11th last year, close here.   Does that give you any added‑‑  
PHIL MICKELSON:   I've played well here.   Again, I really like the golf course, and I like how straightforward a test it is.   It's got some nice practice facilities here to work on our game and stay sharp.   Hopefully the heat will stay down a little bit so that we're able to put in the hours on the range.   
I really do like the golf course, and hopefully I'll improve on some of those finishes.  
   
 Q.   Is it easy to stay focused on this tournament when you realize that the U.S. Open, though, one of the majors, is next week?  
PHIL MICKELSON:   It is, because I feel the best way to prepare is to play well and get in contention and competition when you're really trying to focus.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT