MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2015
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  BILL MACATEE:   Thank you very much.   With Phil Mickelson, 67 today.   You know this course so well.   What was your game plan coming out with Jordan having such a big lead? 
PHIL MICKELSON:   I was looking at the pin placements, and they were much more accessible on the front nine, so I felt like I had to get off to a good start. 
I tried to get something going on the back.   It was a much more difficult back nine I thought to get to some of the pin locations in the front.   It was important to get off to a good start.   I was lucky to do that.   The back I ended up making two bogeys that stalled my round, but it was a good round. 

Q.   I was watching you, and there was something about your expression throughout the day, it feels good to be back in the thick of things here at Augusta National, doesn't it?
PHIL MICKELSON:   It's the best.   It really is the best.   To play late on the weekends in Augusta, perfect weather, the golf course was just stupendous today.   It couldn't have been any better.   They got the greens just perfect so a great shot was received.   If it wasn't a perfect shot, it would run through.   It was penalizing mis‑hit shots, we saw a lot of birdies, a lot bogeys.   It was just perfect and a fun day to play.

Q.   I've got to ask you about the shirt and the significance of it.
PHIL MICKELSON:   It's not my color, it doesn't look good on me, but I don't wear it well, but I had a premonition after spending time with Arnold Palmer, he likes to wear this color, I just had a feeling that I needed to make a move, and I had it in the bag and pulled it out.

Q.   What about tomorrow, your game plan, on the course and also wardrobe?
PHIL MICKELSON:   Well, I like to wear dark colors on Sunday.   I've won three times here wearing black shirts, so I'll wear a black shirt tomorrow.   It also helps me get more aggressive.   Studies have shown, like NFL teams, when they wear black, they have more penalties.   That's what I need to do tomorrow is play more aggressive.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT