SAUDI INTERNATIONAL POWERED BY SBIA
January 30, 2020
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  4-under total. Having gone out in 37, you must be quite pleased with how you scored?  
PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, it was a great back nine. Part of the challenge for me is that I feel like I've been playing well but mentally I haven't been as sharp. I haven't been visualising and I haven't been seeing the shot clear. It was certainly evident early in the round where I made a couple of shots that weren't that hard that I made difficult.   
But the back nine, things really started to come together. Meaning I hit a lot of good shots. I started making the putts, and made a lot of birdies, and it was just a good back nine that gave me a good chance heading into tomorrow. I feel like my game is a lot sharper than I've been scoring, so it was nice having that back nine.   
But going into tomorrow's round with hopefully less wind in the morning, I can get off to a good, aggressive start and see if I can continue making birdies. I feel like I can.   
 Q.  What do you feel clicked on that back nine?  
PHIL MICKELSON: I would say the difference was I started to see what I wanted the ball to do, as opposed to what I didn't want it to do and I think that's kind of the best way to say it. I started seeing the ball go in the hole. I started seeing the shots fly where I wanted. Just things like that. I just didn't have a good picture of what I want, and then the back nine I started to see it a lot better.   
 Q.  Amazing run, 10 to 16. Talk us through that.  
PHIL MICKELSON: Hit a lot of good shots and made the putts. It's not like the putts are easy. The greens are rolling beautifully but factoring the wind and the break and so forth, it wasn't the easiest. It was a fun challenge, and just continued to kind of be patient. There was one on maybe 14 -- 13, kind of up off the tier and fell in. That was really fun because I haven't really made a good, long one like that, and I didn't expect to make that one, and it just kind of circled in. That's a cool feeling to see those go in.   
 Q.  To come back in 29, was it more impressive in the condition?  
PHIL MICKELSON: The great thing about this golf course is that it's playable in tough conditions. So if you hit good shots, you get rewarded. It's not always beating you up, but you have to hit really good shots to have them pay off in these type of conditions. I think without the wind tomorrow, we'll be able to be more aggressive in the morning and make some more birdies than we did today. It will play easier, but you still have to hit good shots and make putts to make birdies.   
 Q.  Did G-Mac pull you along?  
PHIL MICKELSON: Certainly seeing how easy he made the course look, is encouraging, knowing that, yeah, you can do it. You can make birdie, so let's get after it. The way he was playing, so steady and solid, and even with one little hiccup, he still shot a round of 6-under par in tough conditions. It's very impressive.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT