THE HONDA CLASSIC
February 26, 2015
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Can you just talk about the test? 
PHIL MICKELSON:   Yeah, it was a fun day.   I enjoyed the challenge of the wind, and the course is in tremendous shape.   The greens were beautiful.   I hit a couple balls in the water coming in, made two bogeys, but otherwise, I really enjoyed the challenge of the day.   It's fun to be back out competing and had a good day with the putter and it was a fun day. 

Q.   When you play these windy conditions, and looks like it's going to be around the rest of the week, what is the key for you? 
PHIL MICKELSON:   I just really enjoy the challenge of these windy conditions.   I enjoy having to hit shots to work the ball back into the wind or let it fall with the wind to get the balls in the fairway to get them to the green and get them close to the hole. 
It's fun.   You're not able to hit just the same shots over and over; and some I pulled off and some I didn't, and I enjoyed the challenge of the round.   I think this is going to be really a good tournament, a good test. 

Q.   You said yesterday that you're practicing well but you won't know about your game until you are in the conditions.   That said, what did you learn about your game today?
PHIL MICKELSON:   I thought it went well.   I made a couple of mistakes coming in.   I have a couple focus things I'll work on, seeing the shot a little bit better.   But I hit a lot of good shots today and I hit a few bad ones, and made the putts I should make and for the most part‑‑ but didn't really make any that propelled the round.   You can look at it either way.   I thought it was a good start though.

Q.   Did you have a good feel with the putter today?
PHIL MICKELSON:   I thought so.   I made a couple of good 4‑footers for par and birdie early on and it was fine from there.   I hit every putt on line.   It felt good.   Putting is not really the issue I'm worried about, even though it was the weakness earlier in the year. 
I thought it was fine today, and I don't expect it to be an issue.   But we'll see. 

Q.   Did you work on it much the last couple weeks? 
PHIL MICKELSON:   It's such a small, small stroke that it really shouldn't be that hard to make solid contact.   I mean, if that's off a little bit, it's an easier fix than if the golf swing is off.

Q.   You said you enjoy the challenge.   Is it hard to find a rhythm when you're hitting knock‑down shots and sawed‑off shots? 
PHIL MICKELSON:   I don't think it's hard to find a rhythm because it's fun to try to hit shows shots.   It's fun to work the balls into to the green.   There were a number of shots that were challenging where the pin was tucked on one side and the wind was taking it away from the pin. 
So working it into those were extremely difficult shots but I thought it was fun to try to pull them off. 

Q.   Sergio was struggling a little bit, even though he was contending last week, and he said he would rather shoot 8‑over playing well than 1‑over playing poorly.   Can you speak to that mentality of what you would rather be doing when you're out there? 
PHIL MICKELSON:   I don't know.   I wonder if something got lost in translation there (laughter).   I would just rather shoot a number, I don't care really how. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT