THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 1, 2015
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Good to get back in the mix?   
PHIL MICKELSON:   Yeah, it's fun, it's fun to feel the pressure and to be in it.   It was a fun day.   It was a fun day today.   We got a lot of golf in.   The course is in great shape.   You know, looking forward to tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel like you're in a pretty good position right now?   
PHIL MICKELSON:   The best position is leading, obviously, but there's a lot of golf left in nine holes, and I think we're all getting a little bit tired coming down the last few holes.   
So hopefully we'll get rested and have a little stretch.   We need to get one hot streak of three, four birdies there on that back nine.  
   
 Q.   Did Bones talk you out of putting the last one?  
PHIL MICKELSON:   No, I told him to walk out the fairway.   I wanted to try to slow play to get the sire to go off so that I could putt tomorrow.   But I was hoping that was a birdie putt.   Instead, it's a putt for par.   
I pushed a putt on the sixth hole, and I'm looking forward to just having a minute to regroup and take a look at what's going on.   
   
 Q.   What do you have left on that hole?   
PHIL MICKELSON:   It's probably eight feet for par.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel like even with that push, it seems like the putter has gotten a little bit going at times this week.   Is that a fair assessment?   
PHIL MICKELSON:   I've had a great week on the greens.   I've made a lot of great putts, and Bones has been reading them better.   This has been one of his best weeks for green reading.   They are very tough, tricky to read.   I'm having a hard time, but Bones has been great.   It's been a great putting week.   
   
 Q.   Do you detect a different energy level now, after a long day, with the weight loss?  
PHIL MICKELSON:   Yeah, it's interesting.   I haven't thought about that, but yeah, I feel‑‑ I don't feel sluggish.   It's been good.   I didn't really think much about it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT