SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 4, 2019
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Comments on your round and how it compared to yesterday?
PHIL MICKELSON: You know, I didn't score great. I didn't have a very good putting day. I missed five or six putts that I should have made and it took away from what could have been a really good round on the back nine. Should have been 5-, 6-under par pretty easily, and I just struggled with the putter on the greens. I putted great Wednesday, putted great Thursday. I'll get it turned around, but that's what let me down. Fortunately I'm only four or five back and I'm excited to make a run and go have an opportunity tomorrow to make a run.
Q. Was it a line or a speed thing?
PHIL MICKELSON: I just didn't see it. I don't know, I just wasn't seeing the ball go in.
Q. Any thoughts of changing the putter?
PHIL MICKELSON: No, I like it. I like it from short range a lot. But the greens were a little crusty and you had to hit them perfect. You had to give them a really good roll, and I wasn't. I wasn't giving it a good roll. My speed was off, I was short on a lot of them, and I just didn't have a great day putting.
Q. So is it a really big test of your patience?
PHIL MICKELSON: It was, and I thought that I did a pretty good job of being -- I was 1-over through 10, of making a good comeback to shoot 2-under, but obviously that back nine should have easily been 5-, 6-, 7-under.
Q. Yesterday we were talking about your iron play. How satisfied were you with it today?
PHIL MICKELSON: So I played okay on that back nine. I should have been 5-, 6-, 7-under par, but unfortunately I didn't have a good day on the greens. I struggled with the putter, speed was off. But I felt like I stayed patient throughout the round. I felt like I hung in there and shot a couple under to where I'm in a position where if I go low, I'll make up some ground. I feel like I'm playing well enough to shoot 62 or 63 out here, and I just need to get a little bit better performance on the greens.
Q. After a tough summer, yesterday with that opening round, it must have given you a little bit of confidence. What can that lead to over four rounds?
PHIL MICKELSON: So I know I'm playing well, which made it a lot easier for me today when things weren't going the way I wanted, when I missed a few putts and when I was 1-over through 10 to hang in there and be patient because I knew I was going to have a number of opportunities, and I did. I didn't capitalize on all of them like I should, but I still played the last eight holes 3-under and kept myself in it.
Q. What exactly are you working on with the putter?
PHIL MICKELSON: So it's a little bit more stable, and it helps me from six, eight feet in, and unfortunately it didn't show today, but Wednesday and Thursday, I putted really well from inside six, eight feet, which is what I'm concerned with. If I make those putts, I'm going to have a lot of chances to win tournaments.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT