HUMANA CHALLENGE IN PARTNERSHIP WITH THE CLINTON FOUNDATION
January 25, 2015
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   (No Microphone.)
PHIL MICKELSON:   I've got some things to improve on, but it was a good week to kind of build a foundation, work on my game. 
We had great weather, that allows you to work on the fundamentals and get the swing basics down without having to fight the elements, without getting into bad habits. 
So it was a good week to get the year started, now we'll see the next two weeks if I can get that fine tuning done and shoot the low scores I need. 

Q.   (No Microphone.)
PHIL MICKELSON:   A little bit.   This isn't really a course where distance is a factor, you don't need to hit the ball long here. 
So, it's hard to tell, until we get to San Diego, really, where the golf course is long, at sea level, that's where we'll start to get an advantage for distance.   You'll see me starting to swing a little harder.

Q.   Talk about the changes in the putting grips you're using. 
PHIL MICKELSON:   Well, I just feel as though I've got two ways that I like to putt, that I feel comfortable putting, one is the claw, one is the regular grip. 
But it just kind of depends on how the putt feels, I guess.   I tend to gravitate towards the claw on shorter putts and gravitate away from it and toward a regular grip on longer putts, but it's kind of a feel thing. 
I don't know ‑‑ I don't know if I'll do it all year or not, I don't know.   But I like having a something to go to if I feel that it might help me get a putt to drop. 

Q.   Excited about your year, disappointing year for you last year, you put a lot of work in in the off season.   How excited are you for this year?
PHIL MICKELSON:   I'm really excited for this upcoming year.   I feel I'm ready to go, ready to get started.   It was a good week this week, but some of the fine tuning needs to get just a little bit sharper. 
I need to make more birdies, hit the ball a little closer to the hole, just be a little bit sharper on every shot, so that I don't hit a loose one.
Those details are what I've got to work on, but I feel that this was a good week to get the year started.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT