HUMANA CHALLENGE IN PARTNERSHIP WITH THE CLINTON FOUNDATION
January 24, 2015
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You drove the ball very well tee to green.   What was letting you down was your short game, your wedge play and putting, things that are normally your bailiwick. 
PHIL MICKELSON:   I think that's accurate.   The little nuances of getting the ball in the hole have been slightly off.
But it was a day today that could have been really low, it had a lot of potential, and I ended up making too many bogeys and letting some birdie opportunities slide. 
But I shot 4‑under today, I'm looking forward to tomorrow's round and getting that one more round under my belt of competitiveness and see if I can get it all to kind of fire.   But you're right, the area of strength around the greens, chipping, little putts and so forth have been a little bit off this week. 

Q.   You've announced that you're not going to play a lot of golf on the West Coast, so getting your reps in early or what is the reason for this schedule?
PHIL MICKELSON:   Oh, my kids have two different spring break weeks and they have accommodated my schedule for years and it's time for me to accommodate theirs.   So I'll miss two tournaments I really love, AT&T and L.A., but I'll add some more later on and be ready to go hopefully for the Masters. 
I've got two great tournaments coming up, next week in Phoenix will be a lot of fun, San Diego that being my hometown will be a good week as well. 
I know and I'm excited about where my game is at, and I just need to be patient during each round and during each week, because I have a feeling that there will be some good things coming. 

Q.   Talk about your round and 4‑under, but what did you see out there?
PHIL MICKELSON:   Well, I turned in 4‑under and had a chance, if I could have gotten hot on the back nine and shot 5‑ or 6‑under to get in it.   Unfortunately, I didn't, I shot even par on the back. 
But it was a round of opportunity.   I had a number of chances to really go low and didn't quite put it together, but I hit a lot of good solid shots, I just made a couple too many mistakes for this tournament. 
I got one more round tomorrow and I'll see if I can put it all together, but the game feels really good.   But there are the subtleties and nuances of getting in the ball in the hole have been where I've been struggling.

Q.   Wind was tricky out here today. 
PHIL MICKELSON:   It was tricky early on and that's when I actually played my best.   When the wind was at its strongest, I was 4‑under through the nine holes.   Then the back it died down and it was really a chance to go low and I just didn't take advantage of it. 

Q.   As a numbers guy, how much do you use Shot Link stats to analyze your game?
PHIL MICKELSON:   I really don't.   I don't.   I don't really use it.   But Dave Pelz, who we, when we look at stuff, I know that he looks at that and so I think that there is some reference to how I apply it.   I think I apply it somehow into my game.

Q.   Why don't you use it, because I know you've always loved math?
PHIL MICKELSON:   It's just a little overwhelming.   There's so many different numbers and yardages and that it just gets to be a little bit overwhelming. 

Q.   What's the best stat out here now on Shot Link do you think as far as ones that other people analyze?
PHIL MICKELSON:   I don't know.   I think the most accurate one is the one on putting now the way we.

Q.   The strokes gained?
PHIL MICKELSON:   Strokes gained in putting I think it the most telling statistic of how you're doing in one particular area. 

Q.   What's your mindset regarding the Olympics?   Is it on your radar?
PHIL MICKELSON:   Oh, sure it is.   It's in two years and this is where the rankings and the points and all that stuff will start for qualifying for that event.   So certainly that's on my mind.   It's something I would love to do would be, I would be a pretty old Olympian, it would be fun to do that.

Q.   Do you have any like oh, why couldn't they have done this 10 years earlier, 20 years earlier or no?
PHIL MICKELSON:   I don't.   I'm excited that they're doing it now.   I'm excited to hopefully be a part of it.

Q.   Who was your favorite Olympian to watch growing up?
PHIL MICKELSON:   Well Greg Louganis was from San Diego area, he was a great diver and so that was somebody that I always watched and pulled for.

Q.   So, the last time the Super Bowl coincided with the tournament in Arizona, would you have gone to the game if you hadn't been in one of the last groups?
PHIL MICKELSON:   I have, I think going to a Super Bowl is really a life experience.   I think it's something you should do if you have the opportunity.   I think that it was something I've enjoyed doing a few times now.   Probably three or four.   But it is a lot of effort to go there and I don't have that strong desire, now that I've done it a number of times.   I will later with my kids, as they want to go, I would love to take them.   But right now.

Q.   When the Chargers get in?
PHIL MICKELSON:   Or that. 
(Laughter.)

Q.   You gave your tickets away last Phoenix Super Bowl.   You had tickets.   Somebody before the round, I believe, do you remember the, there was a fan, I believe?
PHIL MICKELSON:   Kind of, yeah.   I remember it was a little boy there with his dad.   I always like seeing that out here.   I like seeing parents bring their kids out.   It's just, it's a big part of growing the game.

Q.   Do you remember if you ever heard back from them?
PHIL MICKELSON:   Oh, yeah, yeah, no, I did.   I got a thank you note. 

Q.   You love football, is it sort of weird to have it so close and yet you're sort of isolated from it by virtue of it's a workday for you?
PHIL MICKELSON:   Not really, no.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT