HUMANA CHALLENGE IN PARTNERSHIP WITH THE CLINTON FOUNDATION
January 23, 2015
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Spectacular finish, a sweet way to finish a Friday off.   
PHIL MICKELSON:   It was.   It took me 31 holes to get my game to click and birdieing the last five was a nice feeling and hopefully I'll be able to keep it going tomorrow.   
But the rhythm started to fall in place and the putter felt better and it was a good way to finish the round with five birdie.   
 And I get to play a wonderful golf course tomorrow the PGA West Palmer, it's a great place to play.   You get hot with the putter, you get hot with the short irons, you can really go low there.  
   
 Q. Anything in particular you take from today into that round tomorrow?  
PHIL MICKELSON:   Just momentum.   Just momentum and just kind of the feel for the game, feel for the round.   It just took awhile, after being out for four months, to focus on the shot, focus on the shot, and seeing the ball where you want it to go.   
When you haven't played you start to see where you don't want it to go.   I hit some of those shots, too.   But the last five, it's got dialed in.  
   
 Q. How are you measuring your progress this week?  
PHIL MICKELSON:   I know heading into this week where my game stands.   It will, the scores will reflect it soon enough.   Today's 66 is fine, but you got to go really low here.   And it probably wasn't as good as I feel I'm playing.  
But tomorrow, hopefully, I think I've got a really low one in me.   The game's where I want it to be, but now the last bit is that final touch of focusing, seeing shots and putting together the score.   
   
 Q. Was there one thing that really clicked on those last five holes?  
PHIL MICKELSON:   Just the rhythm.   I hit one good 8-iron into, after missing a 5-footer for birdie on the par-5, I hit one good 8-iron to about six feet and that was the feel that I was looking for.  
And I made those swings coming in, the same kind of feel through impact and was able to hit a bunch of good iron shots.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT