WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
July 31, 2014
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  PHIL MICKELSON:   With my golf swing.   I had a nice‑‑ I felt good with the putter.   I'm putting well again.   I feel like my game's on the way back.   I don't know, again, when it's going to all start to click, but it was close today. 
I feel really good about where I'm headed at least.

Q.   You could have not come here, and everyone would have understood. 
PHIL MICKELSON:   I feel fine.   I just didn't want to come and get anybody else sick.   I wanted to wait until I wasn't contagious anymore. 
And I wanted to play the week before the PGA.   If I'm going to have a good chance next week at a golf course I've played well at in the past, I needed to get sharp.   I needed to get out and play.

Q.   When did that start, Phil?   When did you get sick? 
PHIL MICKELSON:   At the end of‑‑ after the British.   Really after the British, yeah. 
I've got to be a little bit careful on some of the high fives and hand slappings and stuff because it looks like that's kind of been the cause of me getting sick a little bit.   I've got to cut some of that out.

Q.   Not feeling well outstanding, how big of a deal is it for you to try to make the Ryder Cup team with only two events left?   Obviously, big money these two weeks, a lot of points. 
PHIL MICKELSON:   Yeah, it's been a really good streak that I've had going, and I have not had to rely on a captain's selection in two decades, and I'd like to keep that going.   I definitely want to be in Scotland, a country that I've played some good golf in the last few years and I always enjoy going back to. 
So it would be nice and beneficial, I think, if I were able to play my way on the team by myself.   And I feel like I'm starting to play well enough to do it now. 

Q.   Is your illness affecting your ability to practice? 
PHIL MICKELSON:   Yeah, I haven't been able to physically practice.   I've been putting and chipping, but I haven't been able to hit a lot of balls.

Q.   Bronchitis? 
PHIL MICKELSON:   Strep throat.

Q.   So you went big two days [Inaudible]? 
PHIL MICKELSON:   The good thing about that is it's very treatable.   The bad thing is for a while there it's not good.

Q.   How long have you had it? 
PHIL MICKELSON:   Oh, I don't know.   A few days.   A little more than a few days.

Q.   High fever with that? 
PHIL MICKELSON:   I'm okay now.   I'm doing good now.   I just have to be‑‑ you know, make sure I drink enough, watch it a little bit. 
But I played some of my best golf when I was sick too.   I remember‑‑ well, it's been a while now, but back in San Diego, like 2000 or 2001, I ended up being in the hospital with an IV on Tuesday and Wednesday and ended up winning. 
I remember doing that at Doral the night before the final round, and you come out, and it just kind of slows your mind down.   You don't get ahead of yourself.   You don't rush things.   Sometimes you play your best golf like that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT