SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 6, 2019
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  So sum up the week for us, please.  
PHIL MICKELSON: I had a really enjoyable week. I came out and had two good rounds out of four. I didn't obviously compete, but the road back to playing well is a process, and today or this week was a good start on that process, and I'm looking forward to going to Korea and continuing improving. I identified a few areas to continue to work on, but there were some areas of strength as well.   
It was a good week, and look to build on it.   
 Q.  Korea and possibly China. Given any thoughts to adding an additional United States starts before the end of the fall?  
PHIL MICKELSON: I haven't.   
 Q.  What are the strengths that you liked the most?  
PHIL MICKELSON: I hit a lot of fairways, a lot of stock cut drivers in play; iron play was sharp.   
Flew a lot of wedges and short irons the right number. My short irons have not been sharp the last six, eight months. They were really good this week. They were much, much better.   
I hit a lot of good putts the first and fourth rounds, online. Didn't make a ton, but I hit a lot of good putts. I had a rough putting week the second and third rounds. I'll work on that.   
My iron play, my chipping was much better. I drove it -- hit a lot more fairways, too.   
 Q.  Fireside chat?  
PHIL MICKELSON: I'm sure I'll have one out next week.   
 Q.  Will there be a Vegas version?  
PHIL MICKELSON: No. You know, I don't know. I have a bunch of stuff in my phone. I just don't know what I'm going to put up yet.   
 Q.  What are your thoughts about next year, playing here again?  
PHIL MICKELSON: I haven't seen the schedule that late in the year. I do enjoy the golf course and I do enjoy coming here. I think the three weeks off after the playoffs gives me enough time to take a little bit of a break and come back and play. Certainly the odds are much better than they have been in the years past.   
 Q.  Sneak one more in: Obviously a lot of business to do out here on this tour, but what are your thoughts about the Champions Tour at the moment, about a year away?  
PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, haven't really thought about it. I want to get my game back to compete out here.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT