WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 2, 2014
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Phil, can you talk about your round today.   A little tougher out there for you today. 
PHIL MICKELSON:   Yeah, I didn't‑‑ I can't believe the difference in putting from yesterday to today.   Yesterday I saw every ball go in the hole, and today I couldn't get 'em to fall and was 3‑putting, which is funny because the greens today were so perfect. 
After getting off to an early start and not ‑‑ having very few people in front of us, they were just beautiful.   You could really make 'em.   I struggled today.   I don't have any great reason.   It didn't feel far off.   I felt like I hit some decent shots, there was one or two bad ones but other than that, I thought it was pretty good.   I just struggled getting the ball in the hole. 

Q.   Was it more just the line?   Some of the short putts seemed like something with the line‑‑
PHIL MICKELSON:   I don't know what it was.   I couldn't read 'em right.   When I thought I hit a good putt, it broke, and when I played for break, it didn't.   I was just a little off on the greens today, but they're rolling beautifully; I just didn't quite judge 'em right. 

Q.   How's your two days off the tee? 
PHIL MICKELSON:   It was okay.   You have to be aggressive here on this course with the length of the course and with the opportunities, because of the rough not being as thick; it's playable, which I love.   I think it allows for great recovery shots. 
I thought it was fine.   There were one or two that weren't great but it was fine. 

Q.   You have shown in the past your ability to string together birdies and go low and get on a hot streak.   You will be going out earlier, is that an advantage on this course? 
PHIL MICKELSON:   Yeah, I tell you, it's difficult when you're‑‑ when you have to make birdies to follow as opposed to having to make birdies to make a run. 
You come out early and make some putts, make some birdies, get moving up the leaderboard and it's more difficult in those last groups.   I've been on both he ends of it out here before.   It's tough when you have to make birdies; it's a lot easier to go out early. 

Q.   You have to get yourself in that mind‑set to kind of‑‑
PHIL MICKELSON:   Oh, yeah, I'll try to go out and make a run tomorrow.   I'm not that far back, and it wasn't that far off.   It's not like I've got a lot of work to do, I just need to get a little more dialed in. 

Q.   Phil, when you mentioned the other day about not being able to get on at Pinehurst, were you talking about the fact that you wouldn't be able to do what you want to do?   I'm sure you could get on, but you could not do‑‑
PHIL MICKELSON:   I could probably get a tee time and join a group, yeah, if guys would let me join 'em, but it's not‑‑ I need to get on the golf course, and I'll just wait.   It will close up probably in May.   I was just surprised at how much play there is right now, because, you know, they're booked‑‑ I was able to get a tee time at 2:10 one day which just didn't make sense.   I'm not going to get anything done in a few hours. 

Q.   That's really it though, you're going to go out there and do what you do to spend time on the greens and chipping‑‑
PHIL MICKELSON:   Yeah.

Q.   What does that take for you, six, seven hours to put in that practice? 
PHIL MICKELSON:   No, it's a little more than that and it's two days of it, usually. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks, Phil. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT