WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 4, 2014
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Tough one, Phil.   
PHIL MICKELSON:   I had two great rounds and I had two pathetic rounds this week, but I really enjoyed the week, I enjoyed the golf course.   I love what was done to the greens.   I think it enhances the beauty and the greatness of this golf course.   
Next year, when they have a year to settle in, I think you'll really see the beauty of it come out.   It was great today.   The greens putted perfectly, even though I didn't.   They were in great shape, which is amazing, given that it was a rough winter to have them in such great shape so early on.   
Even though I didn't play well today, I didn't play well Friday, I had two great rounds and it's kind of a good start for me to get me back on the right track.   
   
 Q.   Is that what you chalk it up to, the putting today?   
PHIL MICKELSON:   Yeah, I hit the ball really well today.   I hit a lot of good shots today.   I was not displeased at all.   I thought I drove the ball really well and hit a lot of great iron shots, and, you know, it was on the greens.   I just couldn't get it in the hole.   
It was a really rough day on the greens, but, again, I had a good week.   It was a fun week and, again, it was a step in the right direction.   
   
 Q.   Phil, you've been playing a long time.   Ever surprise you, you shot 29 on the front nine, and you couldn't make a birdie today?  
PHIL MICKELSON:   It happens, you know, it happens.   Sometimes you put together a couple of really low rounds and the one after is sometimes tough, and you just never know.   I hit the ball well today, I just struggled on the greens.   It was a great test today, the swirling winds made for a great challenge and as always there is always somebody that comes up with a low round from the middle of the pack, and it was an exciting day.   
   
 Q.   I know you can't predict the future but looking ahead to, '17, these greens will have three years under their belt and the PGA Championship coming here.   What changes could you make for a Major coming to this place?   
PHIL MICKELSON:   I don't think you need to make any.   I think when you get a Major Championship and the greens get firmer and faster, that's when you see the greatness of the golf course, or it becomes unplayable, and here the greatness comes out, the subtlety and nuances come out and I think the changes were beautifully done.   
   
 Q.   Couple of par 5s get changed to make it a par 70, you think, obviously‑‑  
PHIL MICKELSON:   I don't know.   I don't know what you would do.   I wouldn't change a thing.   I think it's perfect the way it is.   In a year's time when the greens have a chance for the roots to get a little deeper and this type of grass in warm weather, you can make so firm and fast that it's going to be a great challenge.   It's really a beautiful golf course.   
   
 Q.   You mentioned a nice start to getting you going.   Looking ahead to next week and the PLAYERS?   
PHIL MICKELSON:   I'll use this as a stepping stone.   I've felt good and healthy all week, have for a couple of months now and I hit a lot of good shots this week.   I'll see Dave Stockton tomorrow and see if I can get this putter a little more consistent, because I had two great putting days and then I had just two horrific ones.   
   
 Q.   Phil, it's been an unusual year.   The top‑ranked guys aren't winning much and we have had a lot of different players who have come out of nowhere and won.   Any theories as to why we're seeing that?   
PHIL MICKELSON:   No, no theories.   There are certainly a lot of great players and the guys that haven't usually been up there are all kind of just being a touch off.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks, Phil.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT