MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2014
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   It was a tough day out there.   How would you rate your play?
PHIL MICKELSON:   It was okay.   I didn't play great.   I didn't play bad.   I just had one bad hole there at 12.   And I keep making these triples, they're tough to overcome. 
But the golf course is awesome today.   I felt there were some birdies out there.   The greens were receptive, and the wind is what made it tricky.   And I thought it was really a fun challenge.   There were some birdie pins out there.   If you played well you could make some birdies. 

Q.   It would be a weird feeling going home. 
PHIL MICKELSON:   Yeah, it's going to be close.   It's right on the bubble.   I was looking at the cut line.   I don't want to be looking for the leaderboard, but I'm always fighting to make the weekend it seems like.   We'll see how it goes. 

Q.   Were you nervous before coming in here, did it kind of come to fruition the way the last two days have gone?
PHIL MICKELSON:   That's what I've been nervous about is having a hole like 7 yesterday, a hole like 12 today, where I go along, making pars, putting the ball in the right spot and you just get a bad situation.   And I end up letting‑‑ instead of one sliding, two or three are going away.   That's the kind of stuff when you're playing tournament golf and you're mentally sharp you don't do.   And that's the kind of stuff I seem to be doing right now.

Q.   Do you think the injury has had something to do with that?
PHIL MICKELSON:   Physically I feel great.   I haven't had any problems.   I've been able to play healthy.   I haven't had to think about it.   But I'm not really sharp.

Q.   How come you couldn't get it going?
PHIL MICKELSON:   Why couldn't I get it going?   You know, I don't really have a great answer for you.   I've actually played reasonably well for a majority of the holes and then the ones that I let slide I end up making a big number.   So it's tough to overcome those big numbers.

Q.   What happened on 12?
PHIL MICKELSON:   What happened at 12 was I hit in the front bunker.   And there was no sand where I was at.   I caught the liner of the bunker and bladed it across the green and the same thing happened on the other side.   It went back and forth, three bunkers, before I finally got it to stay on grass.

Q.   If you weren't here on the weekend can you imagine yourself watching it?
PHIL MICKELSON:   Probably, yeah.   It's an exciting tournament, I probably will.   It's kind of my‑‑ kind of be my punishment. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT