MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 10, 2014
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 Q.   Tell us about your day.   
PHIL MICKELSON:   It wasn't the best day for me today.   Unfortunately, I shot 4‑over and I've got a lot of work to do tomorrow just to make the cut.   So I've got some issues.   
It's a beautiful day though.   It was just perfect all day and it was out there, there was possibilities for low scores and I actually played well.   I know it's hard to say that, but I actually played well and I just made a lot of little mental errors.   
I made a lot of little mistakes around the green, but I didn't hit anything unsolid, I hit them solid, I just misjudged the shot.   
   
 Q.   How frustrating are holes 7 and 15 when things go like that?  
PHIL MICKELSON:   Again, I didn't ‑‑ I just misjudged it.   I just thought that they were soft all day and I misjudged that first bounce.   I just hit them too firm, both of them on 7.   
15 I eased into it.   I hit it solid, I hit it terribly easy.   It was just mental mistakes like that, that I wasn't sharp.   Because, throughout the day, I had pretty good control over where I wanted the ball to go, I was hitting it where I wanted, hitting my spots.   I made a lot of mistakes like that around the greens and just threw away a ton of shots.   
   
 Q.   You expressed some concern on Tuesday about the lack of tournament play that you've had coming in here, do you attribute it to that?  
PHIL MICKELSON:   Yeah, that's probably a sign right there of making those kinds of mistakes.   When I'm competitively sharp, those mistakes you just don't make.   You don't throw those shots away out here.  
   
 Q.   Was this one of your most frustrating rounds out here then?  
PHIL MICKELSON:   Disappointing for sure.   The first day it's not ‑‑ we got a long ways to go and I got a lot of work to do and I don't feel like my game is off, I really don't.   I feel solid with my ball striking, I feel great with the putter.   I hit all those chips solid and flush, but I misjudged them.   I was just off.   I was really off today.   It was very disappointing.   
But I don't feel like I got to go to the range and find something, I feel very confident with the way I'm hitting it and striking it, but my scoring is just, I'm making way too many mistakes like that.  
   
 Q.   (No Microphone.)  
PHIL MICKELSON:   I misjudged the first chip.   The greens were very soft today and receptive.   You saw a lot of balls sticking.   I thought that first bounce would be soft and it went too far.   It went off the green.   
Same thing coming back.   It's uphill, into the grain and it looks soft to me.   That first bounce, I was expecting it to grab it and it skidded through and went by the hole.  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT