VALERO TEXAS OPEN
March 27, 2014
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  PHIL MICKELSON:   It's wonderful.   It's in great shape.   The greens are spectacular.   The fairways are immaculate.   I thought it was a pleasure to play.   I had a great group of guys to play.   Was a fun day.

Q.   What is it like to be back here since the first time in 1992?
PHIL MICKELSON:   Been awhile.   Seeing the growth and development of the city is pretty impressive.   The place we're staying has an incredible water park.   Hopefully we'll get in a San Antonio Spurs game, too.

Q.   We haven't seen you in awhile.   Been just kind of hasn't kind of fit in your schedule, hasn't lined up?
PHIL MICKELSON:   You know, it's not probably the best place to get ready for the Masters in that it's very windy and tight.   Can't really unleash drivers the way you want to at Augusta so I probably used other weeks to get ready. 
But I haven't had the success I've wanted to early on at the start of the season.   I want to get in contention, I want to have a competitive round and work on playing proper golf and managing the game and the rounds.
So this is a great opportunity to work and build some momentum heading into Augusta.

Q.   Jordan Speith said that actually it's a really good second shot golf course and could fit Augusta in that way. 
Do you agree with that assessment?
PHIL MICKELSON:   I love how the front-9 especially, a number of the holes have shaved areas around the green much like we'll face at Augusta for short game work.   I thought that that really gives you a chance to work on some of the similar shots that we'll have.
I love how the rough, the first cut of rough isn't too penal.   It's close to what we'll see at Augusta.   But there's a lot of junk if you miss fairways.   Fairways are very generous.   They're plenty wide to hit.   If do you miss them it's extremely thick.   So you don't want to just unleash and go after one.

Q.   Do you worry about that little bit missing of the driver here is so penal and it could throw a few of the things off?
PHIL MICKELSON:   Possibly.   I think the positives outweigh that.   It's got opportunities to hit similar shots around the greens.   It also has a chance to play more competitive rounds.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT