BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
August 18, 2019
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Phil, before you talk about your round and the uneventful morning, talk about the circumstances at the hotel.  
PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, kind of a funny deal. The building got struck by lightning right above me and blew out a brick chimney and caught fire a little bit. There were ten fire trucks. I got in my car and left and couldn't get back. The roads were closed and the hotel was closed.   
But things cleared up pretty quickly. I was able to get back in and get my stuff.   
 Q.  Your week as a whole at the BMW?  
PHIL MICKELSON: It was electric. I love it here and I love playing. I need a break. I've had a rough four, five months. Probably the worse four, five months stretch of my career.   
I'm looking forward to having a couple months off and kind of regrouping and come back fresh. I've seen some very positive glimpses with areas of my game I'm trying to work on. Mentally I haven't been sharp and been there.   
I just -- I haven't -- I played very horrible golf. I'm looking forward to getting back in it but I need a break.   
 Q.  Phil, if asked, would you be open to maybe be an Assistant Captain for Tiger's Presidents Cup team?  
PHIL MICKELSON: I need to decompress a little bit. I'm mentally fried and physically fried. I just need a little break before I kind of have some good thought plans for you.   
 Q.  Phil, can you -- so the fire occurs and you go down and get in your car and drive off.  
PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah. There were people outside. It was raining. The roads were closed and I couldn't get back in. It cleared up pretty quick.   
 Q.  Were you really like "God, I should have brought my clubs with me just in case" or --  
PHIL MICKELSON: No. I was just thinking I'll be in San Diego a little earlier than I expected and -- it all worked out. It was fine.   
 Q.  Your sister said she was worried about you, your mom.  
PHIL MICKELSON: I've been playing. I don't really call everybody while I play. I haven't talked to anybody yet. But I will in a little bit.   
 Q.  The EMTs got you back into your room; is that what happened?  
PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah. They had been in contact with the Tour but they were clearing up. It didn't matter.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)  
PHIL MICKELSON: I had plenty of warmup, 20, 30 minutes. It all worked out great except my score.   
 Q.  When will you play again?  
PHIL MICKELSON: I'll play Korea and Napa. I'm not sure what the other ones are. If I play well I might try to add a couple in Asia to try to warrant a pick. If I'm not playing well, I probably won't.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT