AT&T PEBBLE BEACH NATIONAL PRO-AM
February 8, 2014
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Disappointing way to finish, but anything under par today was pretty good.   
PHIL MICKELSON:   Yeah, I played well today and it is just that one hole there that was disappointing.   But I played well.   
   
 Q.   Nice save on 6.   Pretty long putt?  
PHIL MICKELSON:   Yeah, I made a good one there for par and fought for some pars today that were challenging.   It was a tough day, tough conditions, but I played pretty well and I shot 1‑under.  
   
 Q.   Still okay to be here though, as opposed to Pebble?  
PHIL MICKELSON:   I think so, with the trees.   
   
 Q.   You got 1, 2 and a good save on 3.   
PHIL MICKELSON:   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   The save on 3 was pretty good.   
PHIL MICKELSON:   I had a bad lie down there, yeah.   
   
 Q.   What was the lie in the bunker like on 6?  
PHIL MICKELSON:   It wasn't good.   I don't know how ‑‑ it didn't plug in its own divot but it plugged like on a bounce.   It was weird.   It happened yesterday at Pebble, where it one hops in, but it plugs in like a half divot.   I've never seen it.   But it happened to me on 2 at Pebble yesterday and it happened here today.   
   
 Q.   The wind came up just as you hit that shot.   It knocked it down.   
PHIL MICKELSON:   It was a marginal club selection too, being able to carry that bunker.   I really hit that good, but it didn't carry.   So, it was a tough one because you don't want to go over the green.   So.   If I drop down to a hybrid and go over, it's a very difficult up‑and‑down there.   
   
 Q.   How do you view your position going into tomorrow?   You were T‑3 at one point.   And I think you're six back at the moment.   But there's not that many players in front of you.   
PHIL MICKELSON:   No, I got to go out and get a hot round, kind of like I did a couple years ago.   I think, I certainly think it's out there.   That's what I'll be gunning for.   I'm playing and hitting the ball well enough to do it.   I'm going to need to get a hot hand on the greens, but that's out there.   If you can do that, you can make a lot of birdies out at Pebble.  
   
 Q.   For you, when you have a lot of ground that you have to make up do you want the conditions tougher or does it matter?  
PHIL MICKELSON:   It doesn't matter.   If it's nice conditions, I've got to go out and make birdies.   If it's poor conditions, I've got to let the leader come back a little bit and so it won't make a difference either way.   I've got to go out and shoot a good round tomorrow relative to the conditions.   
   
 Q.   You were throwing the football around again on 9 tee.   
PHIL MICKELSON:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   That football takes you out of it every time.   
PHIL MICKELSON:   I guess it does, yeah.   That's terrible.   Terrible effort on the last hole there.   That chip.   
   
 Q.   You've been so much a part of this tournament for so long, how important is it in your career to win it again?  
PHIL MICKELSON:   I haven't thought about it, to be honest.   It's not something that I really think about, I just enjoy playing up here.   I enjoy being in contention and I love coming down the stretch at Pebble Beach with a shot to win the tournament.   I mean that's what's really fun.   So it's not that ‑‑ I haven't really thought about how many, but I just know that the four I have won I really enjoyed and I would love to do it again.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT