CIMB CLASSIC
October 24, 2013
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   I'm here with Phil Mickelson, and Phil, first thing you said when you came up to me, you said you're swinging awful right now.
PHIL MICKELSON:   Yeah.   I can't remember swinging this bad in a long time, and as I shoot video of my swing I'm doing everything wrong of.   The path of the club is too inside, then it's vertical, the head's moving, my legs are loose.   Divots are steep.   It's terrible.   This is the worst I've hit and I can't find the middle of the club face.
And I'm not sure if the ball is going to go dead left or snap hook right and it's a frustrating time tee to green.   But I'm putting okay.

Q.   Well, your wedges are always good anyway.   I noticed on that last tee that you were doing lots of rehearsals while the other players were actually hitting, and it looked like you were practicing and you were getting underneath it and you then tried to stop that move.   It's difficult doing things like that and then you have to hit the shot within seconds.
PHIL MICKELSON:   Well, I'm trying something every single shot.   I'm trying something different.   And I've been doing this now since the British Open.   After I took a week off I came back and Butch and I worked at the PGA and the TOUR Championship.   And we just haven't been able to get it figured out, and it's just a little bit‑‑ it's way off right now.   It's as far off as it's ever been.

Q.   Well, thanks very much for speaking to us anyway.
PHIL MICKELSON:   Yeah, I'm nuts.   I'm swinging awful.   I'm swinging terribly at the ball.   And even though I hit some good shots, the divots aren't right and the path of the club isn't right.   This is as bad as I've swung at the ball.

Q.   What was the worst moment out there?   Was it the drive off the tee on No. 2 that went off into the‑‑
PHIL MICKELSON:   That was until I hit a 4‑iron off the tee on No. 9 into the biggest fairway on the golf course and I snap hook it into the water and make double again.   So that was probably‑‑ that took it over right in the last minute that took over the bad swing on 2.

Q.   Well, you gotta feel good you're still up there close enough to‑‑
PHIL MICKELSON:   You know, the lead for me right now is irrelevant.   It's so far off that that's the last thing on my mind, because I just don't know where the ball's going.

Q.   So are you going to go right back out to the range today?
PHIL MICKELSON:   I would go hit balls, but I don't know what to do to try to fix it.   I don't even know what to try to do.   So no.

Q.   You know what it feels like to be me.
PHIL MICKELSON:   There you go.   The weather is nice.   I mean it's been very comfortable.   Obviously very warm, and I think the warmth helps the players play better. 

Q.   Thanks, Phil.   Appreciate it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT