CIMB CLASSIC
October 25, 2013
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   I'm here with Phil Mickelson.   Phil, yesterday when you spoke to us, you said so many things that we were not expecting you to say, like you'd never swung so badly in your life.   How was it today?  
PHIL MICKELSON:   Yeah, it's not much better.   I don't have the control of swing that I would like.   I'm not sure what side I'm going to miss it on.   And playing this golf course from the rough, which I did today, was extremely difficult.   The rough is tough.   You're fighting for pars the whole day.   It was closer today.   The rhythm was a little bit better, but technically I've got a lot of issues.   I think that I'll address it more in the off‑season.   This week and next week, it's going to be difficult.  
   
 Q.   Having said all of that, you're still in position to win this going into the weekend.   You're not far behind?  
PHIL MICKELSON:   I'm putting the ball well.   There are a number of wedges on these short par‑4s.   And with the wedges, the technical flaws don't really come through.   It's really the longer stuff.   So I can get away with it.   If I request manufacture a few swings into the fairway.   But it felt better today.   The rhythm felt a little bit better today.   I won't worry so much about technique and the technical side of it these next few days and see if I can get a good rhythm with the swing, and maybe I can make some birdies.  
   
 Q.   I was curious how much of it is confidence as well, if you've been dealing with a swing issue for a couple months?   
PHIL MICKELSON:   When you play well, to play well, you have to know where your misses are going to be.   You have to be able to eliminate half the golf course and play to the other side that is not as penalizing, whether it's playing away from water or what have you.   Right now, the difficulty is I may make some decent swings and not miss too much, but I don't know if I'm missing it left or right, and that is the difficulty.  
   
 Q.   So maybe you can tell us about your game today?  
PHIL MICKELSON:   Yeah, similar to yesterday.   I'm not hitting the ball very well.   My swing is not very good, and I'm just kind of hanging in there.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT