THE PRESIDENTS CUP
October 4, 2013
Keegan Bradley
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  PHIL MICKELSON:   Well, the big moment I felt was the putt that Keegan made of about 15 feet for birdie on 2, because they were in there tight and they were obviously going to go 2‑up.   That putt there gave us a lot of momentum, and the other one was on 4, because we were going to go 2‑down if he doesn't make this 15‑, 18‑footer for par, and those two putts were just‑‑ they gave me more of a boost of energy watching those go in than if I had made it and that really started our streak because on 5 is where we got hot.   
   
 Q.   Got hot thanks to a tremendous 3‑wood into that green.   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   We really played the par 5s tough today, which when your opponent is doing that, that's really difficult.   We get in this alternate‑shot we just feed off each other.   We were joking that we should put alternate‑shot tomorrow and the best‑ball, but we had a lot of fun.  
   
 Q.   You had confidence on the 14th green before the 15th hole?  
PHIL MICKELSON:   We needed a second to regroup.   We had been playing well all day.   We just needed to take a quick second to get our focus back and make birdie on the 15th in foursome to make eagle and move on.   
   
 Q.   You went seven of eight holes kicked off by the great eagle on 5; looked like that was the critical moment of that round for you.   Was it or was it not?   
PHIL MICKELSON:   I felt like the par putt Keegan made on 4 was just a critical one.   We were going to go 2‑down and he makes a 15‑, 18‑footer for par and gave us this momentum boost and came back and started our run on 5.   
I don't know if I've ever seen anybody‑‑ in fact, I haven't, hit hybrids and fairway woods like this guy.   The shots he fit into 5,7,11, they are some of the best shots I've ever seen.   I love being his partner on those par 5s.   It's just amazing.   
   
 Q.   You won this match fairly easily; is that because you play on the PGA TOUR and your friendship?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   There's no I'm sorries or any of that nonsense.   We are just going to make the shot or get it up‑and‑down.   We seemed to feed off each other.   I love showing off in front of him and I think he likes showing off in front of me.   It's a lot of fun.   
   
 Q.   On the decisive 15th hole, you had about a 3 1/2 footer for birdie, and Graham had a birdie putt as well; you gave it to him, and it was fairly long.   Why did you do that?   
PHIL MICKELSON:   Because my man doesn't miss those.   He doesn't.   It was an anomaly on 13 where one caught the lip and didn't go in.   I wanted to see that ball go in the hole and he's one of the best putters and rolled it phenomenal and I wanted him to end the day seeing it go in.   
   
 Q.   The decisions of who hits on the par5s and par 3s, he had some amazing second shots into par 5s; did you know that going in?   
PHIL MICKELSON:   The golf course sets up to where, whoever hits off the odd holes is going to putt more, in theory, if you hit greens in regulation, reach par 5s, and we had set a plan to do the opposite.   I was going to do the evens and he was going to do odds.   I felt so good with the putter, I wanted to putt, and I asked him right before we teed off, an hour before, if we could switch.   
And I saw the look of disbelief, but after a couple minutes, I was able to convince him to take a risk and let's mix it up.   We may switch tomorrow, I don't know.   But the way he rolled it today, we may end up‑‑ we may end up switching just so that he has a chance to putt more, but we both feel good on the greens and want to have chances.   
   
 Q.   It also seems like with the par 5s playing the way they are, 5 was a huge hole, you come out after the rain delay on 11 hit an amazing shot.   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   We had actually spoken about a month ago that I was going to go off the odds so I had already been thinking about it for a month and he comes up to me and says, we're going to switch it up.   Whatever Phil says, goes.   I'm here to be his partner.   It was amazing the theory that he had with the second shots into the par 5s, and they fit me a lot better.   It really paid off today big time.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT