TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP BY COCA-COLA
September 20, 2013
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Phil, nice 67 for you out there today.   You feel good about that round?   Let's get some comments. 
    PHIL MICKELSON:   It was a better day today.   I mean, there were some low scores out there. 
    What I love about East Lake and the way that it's set up is that, if you play well and hit good shots, you could make birdies, shoot a round in the low 60s, and move right up the leaderboard. 
    But if you start missing fairways, even though the rough is not a wedge‑out rough, it gives you a chance to shoot at the green.   But the flier lies makes it so difficult to get it on the surface that you're fighting for par. 
    I just think it's a wonderful setup, and I played better today to shoot 3 under.

Q.   On the back nine, what kind of pushed you forward? 
    PHIL MICKELSON:   I made a couple putts on the back nine of a decent length.   25, 30 footer on the 12th hole and then probably a 50‑footer on the following. 
    I let a number of shots go on the first 27 holes.   I really hadn't putted well on the first 27, and then it clicked right back in.   Just a slight setup adjustment, and I started to feel really good with it. 
    Heading into tomorrow, since the British Open, this is the best I've felt with my golf swing, the best I've felt with a putter.   I'm not sure if I put myself too far back after the 27 holes I played poorly, but I should play well this weekend.

Q.   It's important to shoot very well today, especially with the conditions that may be coming? 
    PHIL MICKELSON:   It was important to shoot something under par to get back in it because I was too far back.   But there's a low round out there.   You know, there's a 5, 6, 7 under par round out there.   I've got two good chances to go get it.

Q.   Phil, you mentioned a setup adjustment.   What else did you work on? 
    PHIL MICKELSON:   The setup was in the putter.   I just got a little tilted, and it was throwing my lines off.   I just wasn't getting the ball in line.   A very simple adjustment. 
    And ball striking‑wise, I have not struck it well.   Again, my alignment was a little bit off, setup was a little bit off, and swing was just not flowing. 
    And now for the first time, we worked the last few days, I was able to stop worrying about mechanics and start feeling the shots, feeling the swing, hitting shots again.   That's why I'm looking forward to the next 36.   I know I'm far back, but I think I'm going to make a pretty good run. 

Q.   How did you work on the swing and work on thinking about the mechanics less? 
    PHIL MICKELSON:   The more repetition, the more it gets ingrained and the less you have to think about it.

Q.   Phil, I know this season you were a little fatigued.   Did the heat play into it at all? 
    PHIL MICKELSON:   No, the heat really helps us for a number of reasons.   The wind doesn't affect us as much, the ball goes farther, and it also goes a lot straighter.   The heat was a benefit.   That was a big reason why the scores were low. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT