BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 12, 2013
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Three in a row?
    PHIL MICKELSON:   Yeah, it wasn't the way I wanted to prepare for an event, having not seen a course.   I wanted to get in here and play a practice round Tuesday and Wednesday, and obviously I wasn't able to do that.   But Bones guided me around here.   I'll feel more comfortable tomorrow.   I'll have to get a little bit more aggressive.   I think I was a little cautious today not knowing what to expect. 
    But the golf course is in wonderful shape.   The greens are spectacular.   They're difficult to make putts because they have a lot of double‑breaking putts.   They move kind of both ways a lot of times, so it's difficult to make them.   But if I hit it close enough, maybe I'll be able to make them.

Q.   What was your feeling on the first tee, knowing that this was your first ever shot at Conway and you hadn't seen the place?
    PHIL MICKELSON:   It wasn't‑‑ that wasn't the issue.   I actually had a warm‑up session that wasn't great, and I was more nervous because of that.   I was able to kind of get it turned around and hit some solid shots there at the end.

Q.   Were you at a funeral earlier this week?
    PHIL MICKELSON:   No. 

Q.   Can you talk about‑‑
    PHIL MICKELSON:   Not really, I can't.

Q.   When did you get in?
    PHIL MICKELSON:   I got in last night. 

Q.   Is it a family matter?
    PHIL MICKELSON:   Everything is fine.   I'm here now, I'm ready to play.   But I just needed to be a little cautious this first round before I attack it tomorrow. 

Q.   Talk about the wind moving around out there, changing speeds. 
    PHIL MICKELSON:   Although the wind was up and the wind was challenging, because it was more open, meaning there's not a lot of trees, it wasn't swirling, so you could really get a feel for it.   When you get trees that swirl around you, sometimes it's helping, sometimes it's hurting, I thought the wind was very fair in that it's consistent.   You can adjust to it and pick clubs, and there was very few times, if any, that the wind changed while we were hitting during the shot. 
    So guys were able to score low today. 

Q.   Does this fit the definition at all of having a lot of hard holes that are hard and a bunch of easy holes that are fairly easy?
    PHIL MICKELSON:   I think so.   I think it does.   I think there's some really, really tough holes and some really good birdie holes.   That's exactly it.   There's a good mixture of really hard holes and really good birdie opportunities.   I think that makes for exciting golf.
    That's why we have such a discrepancy in scores.   Guys that play well can make a number of birdies and pars on the tough holes, and if you're not playing well you're not making birdies and you're making some bogeys, and we have a huge difference between the leaders and the guys back.

Q.   Do you feel like you played some exciting golf today, especially that pitch on 15?
    PHIL MICKELSON:   Yeah, well, that shot on 15 was cool, but I let a lot of shots get away today.   I've got to score better tomorrow. 

Q.   Can you talk about the off week and did you get the chance to practice or not practice?
    PHIL MICKELSON:   A little bit.   A little bit of practicing.   But I don't feel‑‑ honestly I don't feel my game is as sharp as I was expecting.   I didn't play like I thought I was going to at Deutsche Bank after that final round at Barclays.   And I didn't have a good practice session today, and it hasn't quite clicked. 
    But it started to come in the last nine.   I started to hit some good shots, but I don't feel like I'm sharp.   I don't feel like I'm prepared, and I'm going to have to kind of play my way into this tournament because I wasn't ready to‑‑ I didn't feel like I could attack right from the start. 

Q.   You can actually hit one or two shots and it's a transformation, like that?   Is that how this game works?
    PHIL MICKELSON:   Sometimes.   Sometimes if you make a slight adjustment and all of a sudden you just hit the ball exactly like you wanted to and it just clicks.   My swing and my game does not feel far off from the levels that I was playing at this summer, but it is still a fraction off, and it just needs to kind of click.   I'm optimistic that back nine, that it may have done that. 

Q.   Is the swing off a little bit?
    PHIL MICKELSON:   A little bit, yeah, just a little bit. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT