THE BARCLAYS
August 25, 2013
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Good round, felt that coming all week and finally one happened?
PHIL MICKELSON:   Yesterday after the round, I felt a good round coming, because the pieces were there for a low round yesterday, but I didn't put it together.   I made a lot of little mistakes.   I just played sloppy but I felt my ball‑striking was coming and I felt the putter was coming. 
I believed that today was going to be a good day and it was a day whether I went really low or not, that it would build some momentum for next week.   I feel like now, my ball striking is coming around.   It was pretty sharp.   I feel really good on the greens and I'm looking forward to getting to Boston next week. 

Q.   What was your frame of mind, just to be totally aggressive today and go for it? 
PHIL MICKELSON:   No, it was just to play a good, solid round, to play smart, to hit the shots and to miss it in the proper shots and play a good, solid round and use it as a motivation or momentum‑builder for next week.   Because being nine shots back starting the day, you don't think you had a chance. 
I do believe, had I made one or two coming in, the course, with the wind picking up, it might have had a chance.   But giving one back on the last, looks like I can probably head out of here early.

Q.   17, was that not as perfectas it looked? 
PHIL MICKELSON:   It sure looked good.   It was the right speed.   Looked like it had a chance to creep in there.   It's not where I needed to be to have a good chance for birdie but I still almost made that. 
The one on 16 and 14 get away, those were good opportunities there.   But I made a lot of really long ones.   I made a bomb on 11, I don't know, 70 feet up over that slope.   I had some crazy ones, too. 

Q.   How disappointing was that finish on 18? 
PHIL MICKELSON:   More than making the bogey, when I tried to muscle a 9‑iron and as I was standing over it, I just couldn't feel myself get it there and I just tried to clobber it, rather than getting it in the air and trying to bring it in softer.   That's that sloppy stuff I was talking about.   That was the only time I did that today.   I did a bunch of it yesterday.   And if I can eliminate that for next week, I can have a good week next week because I'm playing well.

Q.   You come off 15 green, did you know you were one off the lead?
PHIL MICKELSON:   Oh, yeah.   Sure. 

Q.   Coming up on a drivable par 4‑‑
PHIL MICKELSON:   I thought, if I could take advantage of 16 and get one or two more coming in, that I was going to end up staying and not heading out.   So thought I would stay a few more hours and see how it plays out.

Q.   What did you think about the vibe of this whole‑‑
PHIL MICKELSON:   I love playing here.   I love playing in the metropolitan area, New York, New Jersey, it's just terrific, and the golf courses are incredible.   But the people are really fun to play in front of.   They are just fun. 
They are my favorite‑‑ it's probably my favorite place to play.   I just love the way‑‑ first of all, they have been great to me and my family, and I love some of the comments.   It's funny. 

Q.   What makes the fans here so unique? 
PHIL MICKELSON:   They are very energetic. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT