THE BARCLAYS
August 24, 2013
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   3‑under par through three, your own all view of what's gone on this week? 
PHIL MICKELSON:   I obviously haven't played well enough to compete, but what's been great for me is that after the PGA and Akron, my game wasn't as sharp as it was at the British.   It's gotten better each day. 
Today I hit a lot of good shots and made a lot of good swings.   I was sloppy, though, and I didn't score well, and tomorrow is going to be an important day for me, because I just want to put it together.   Not because it's going to move me up the leaderboard, but because it's going to get me in the right frame of mind now for next week in Boston, because I can feel it start coming back together.   And if I can just put it together tomorrow and get a little bit of momentum, I think next week will be a good week. 

Q.   All the great wins you've had, you went through the lowest of lows and highest of highs this year in a one‑month period of time, and the focus part is to stay ‑‑ with all of the great things and the tough things, to have those two things happen back‑to‑back, and talking about sloppy, is that part of it?   Maybe that little bit of an edge from the up‑and‑downs you've had in the last month and a half or so?
PHIL MICKELSON:   It could be.   I'm a fairly emotional golfer in that I put a lot into it, and when it's going great, I'm really on, and when it doesn't, it's hard for me to get it turned around. 
I didn't play very well in Akron and PGA right after I came back from the British where I was playing well, but I had a week away from the clubs and it just didn't quite set in. 
I feel like I'm on the right path.   Every day this week, my ball‑striking has gotten better.   I've started hitting more good shots each day, still hitting a number of bad ones.
Today I hit fewer bad ones than I've hit the previous three days and tomorrow, if I can get mentally sharp and play a good, solid round of scoring, because I'm hitting the shots now, I'm starting to control the ball again, and control my misses and play the way I was playing; and if I can put together a good, solid round, stay focused it should give me some momentum next week.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT