PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 9, 2013
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  PHIL MICKELSON:   I struggled these first two days, for sure.   Playing with Adam and Justin who played really terrific golf made it look even worse.   
I fault hard to stay in it.   It's just a little bit off.   I feel like it can turn around in a second.   I don't feel like it's that far off.   I struggled on the greens.   I was over‑reading most every putt.   I really struggled fading the ball.   I drew the ball well off the tee.   I hit some good tee shots; it felt easy.   I hit some good iron shots where I drew it, but I had trouble getting the ball working to the left pins and consequently left myself a lot of long putts on those holes.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
PHIL MICKELSON:   I'm not sure.   I'm not sure if I was over‑reading them because they might have been slower with the water or if just visually they look like they break more to me.  
The putts that I've hit well, I've missed high.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
PHIL MICKELSON:   I thought today was a great day for players who are playing well to separate themselves.   What I found was the holes that were birdie holes actually played easierbecause of the rain by softening the greens.   
The holes that were really hard like 17 and 18 played even harder.   I thought that guys that were playing well, like Adam and Justin, gives them a chance to play and separate themselves from the players who aren't playing well like myself.   
So it was a perfect setup to allow the guys who are playing well to come to the top.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
PHIL MICKELSON:   Oh, for sure, yeah.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
PHIL MICKELSON:   Possibly.   But I think that somebody on the weekend, somebody tomorrow is going to go out and shoot a low round.   It's out there.   
I think it's difficult when you are up near the lead and you are being forced to make birdied and pressed.   I think that there is room and opportunity for guys to come from behind and get right in the mix.  
   
 Q.   Do you now have like a number you are thinking or is it just playing better?   
PHIL MICKELSON:   I have got to go low tomorrow.   I have got to shoot 6‑ or 7‑under par tomorrow to have a chance on Sunday.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible) did you feel like you had figured it out?   
PHIL MICKELSON:   It felt much better and it was much better.   I hit a lot better tee shots.   I hit ‑‑ all my draw shots were good.   Where I struggled today was trying to fade the ball.   
All the left pins that I was trying to cut the ball into the pin, I just didn't‑‑ I didn't get close.   I was 40, 50feet.   So that was the biggest thing.   
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT