THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2013
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Feel like you're pretty close to being right in this
thing?
PHIL MICKELSON:  Well, I think that 1-under will probably
be leading.  I'll be three shots heading into the final round, I
certainly think that's a good spot to be in.  I have to play a
really good round.  If I can shoot something in the 60s I think
that will be enough.
Q.  Can you compare today to yesterday?
PHIL MICKELSON:  There wasn't any moment where it crossed
any line.  Like maybe the first day or two, there was a few little
spots.  But I thought today was excellent.  It was set up very
well.  We saw a few scores under par.  We saw quite a few over
par.  If you manage your game well, I thought you could make pars,
and an occasional birdie here and there.
15 is the only marginal one, 15 is marginal again.  For
whatever reason, they are struggling keeping that green
manageable.  But everything else was really good.
Q.  It looked like you and Butch were working harder than
I've seen you work on a Saturday in terms of warming up.
PHIL MICKELSON:  I didn't strike it great yesterday, so I
wanted to have a little practice session before I played today.
And it went well, I thought.  I hit it pretty good today.
Q.  How about the wind, how much was it different today than
yesterday?
PHIL MICKELSON:  It was very comparable, I thought.  I
thought it was a similar direction, similar strength.
Q.  Do you feel like you're treading water out there, one
step forward, one step back?
PHIL MICKELSON:  I feel like the only hole that is kind
of a -- I don't want to say gimme birdie, but a hole you should
birdie is No. 9 and everything else you've got to make a 20,
30-footer.  You're very lucky if you hit it close.  I hit a shot
close on No. 2, that had a tap-in birdie.
But, yeah, I mean it was -- you just need an element of
luck.  You're going to have to make 20, 30-footers.  I didn't make
really any today.  And subsequently only had three birdies.  And I
think the pars are very manageable.  I don't think there's any
hole that if you hit good shots, you should be able to par every
hole out here.
Q.  No three-putts today, so that was better?
PHIL MICKELSON:  Yeah, I haven't looked at the
statistics.  But I didn't make as many.  I didn't get as many to
go in.  But it was fine.  It was a good round.  Anything around
par today was a good round.  I think that I'll have to play a good
round tomorrow, but I think it's right there.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT