ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 14, 2013
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Winning in the Home of Golf, I take it that's now achieved? 
PHIL MICKELSON:   This is a special week for me and a special victory because of what this means to all golfers, people that love the game and golf has given so much to me; and the Home of Golf here, to play well, it means a lot.
Plus I've come so close, I've played here for so many years and have come close a number of times.   To finally break through means a lot, especially on a links golf course.   Firm conditions on some challenging conditions today, couldn't think of a better way to get prepared for next week but also a more fulfilling day and victory here. 

Q.   Greg Ray half Ray beat you, sorry to remind you, at Loch Lomond some years ago; do you have any misgivings, here we go again, having to face Branden Grace once more?
PHIL MICKELSON:   I had lost my focus a little bit on 18 in regulation when I had the tournament in hand and I was able to re‑focus it when we went back on the tee box and I was pretty determined to make a four when I had to, and I was able to get the victory and we won't worry about it now.

Q.   Essentially the playoff was indicative of the whole round, because it had its up‑and‑downs and a sense of adventure?
PHIL MICKELSON:   Yeah, I had a great day and I hit a lot of great shots, putted very well, and yet I still had some areas that I identified I need to work on for next week.   This was a great opportunity to play in these conditions in a final round, contention, and pressure situation, that not only is it getting me ready for next week but it also gives me a lot of confidence and a lot of fulfillment to finally win here in Scotland. 

Q.   Talk through what has become a winning shot, because that's going to be replayed and replayed I think?
PHIL MICKELSON:   It's a 45‑yard shot, I had a little bit of hurt ‑‑ and I work on my wedges.   I work hard, daily, at flying them the right yardage every time, and I had a shot for that that was a 50‑yard shot but with a little bit of hurt, I thought it would fly just a little bit past the hole and with the help wind it should pin back to the hole and that's exactly what happened.   It was a shot that I've practiced many, many times, and I just kind of relied on that feel that I have developed over the years, hitting it that often, and I was able to pull it off when I needed it. 

Q.   One of my colleagues said it's all down to the Happy Gilmore moment at the start of the week, put you in the right frame of mind. 
PHIL MICKELSON:   Well, certainly that was not my finest moment trying to strike a golf ball.   I had never tried that before, and I barely, barely nicked it. 

Q.   But it is indicative of the whole fun you seem to have had across this week?
PHIL MICKELSON:   I've had the greatest time.   Having Amy and the kids here makes this two‑week stretch just so much more fun than if we are apart.   They had a blast here at Inverness, there's some great parks and amusement areas and some great rivers we've gone to.   We've had a lot of fun and it makes it special to come out with a victory.

Q.   I'll say the stupidest thing:   But this bodes so well, doesn't it, for next week?
PHIL MICKELSON:   Well, it makes next week a really good opportunity in that I'm playing well and have some confidence now on some links golf.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT