MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2013
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   I saw you grab your back after the tee shot on 17.   
PHIL MICKELSON:   I fell back.   I just over extended, just hung back a little bit too much and put a little bit more pressure.   It doesn't hurt or bother me, but I just hate hanging back and hitting that hook.   But, no, my back feels fine and it's been fine for a number of years now.   So I've been fortunate that that hasn't been an issue.   
   
 Q.   The round today, obviously you struggled early, came back, I know we can hear that, from the transcript, but talk about it.   
PHIL MICKELSON:   It's kind of what I kind of anticipated on Tuesday when we talked is I thought I would come out a little bit passive and tentative and I did.   I didn't feel great starting out or confident.   I hadn't been in competition for awhile.   
But the back nine, after playing nine holes, I started to feel good with my swing, started to have confidence in the shots I needed to hit and hit a lot of good shots.   And shot a few under par.   
So it was a round where it didn't help me much, but it certainly didn't hurt me.   
   
 Q.   How would you assess Frankenwood?  
PHIL MICKELSON:   Well, I hit a hellacious bomb on 13 and 15 for me.   I hit 8‑iron to that back pin on 13, and 9‑iron into 15.   And I don't have that into those holes normally.   
And this club got way out on 13 more with that cut than it normally does.   It just has so much less spin it just streamlines.   
The same thing on 15.   I was just, it went down there by those trees.   I mean I'm never down there.   I'm usually hitting 4‑, 5‑, 6‑iron in there and it was a 9‑iron.   So that driver, it's more of like a driver substitute, I would call it.  
   
 Q.   What holes did you use it on?  
PHIL MICKELSON:   Hit it good on 10, 11, hit it good on 14.   Pulled it on 17 with a bad swing.   Then I hit 3‑wood on 18.   
   
 Q.   Can we assume that we didn't talk anything about the front nine with that club.   But that was more you weren't really into the flow?  
PHIL MICKELSON:   I hit 3‑wood, I hit 4‑iron, I hit ‑‑ yeah, I wasn't ‑‑ I didn't hit anything good though.   I didn't hit my irons good, I didn't hit anything good, so I don't want to put much stock in the front.   But I really feel like this is a good thing for me.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about the pace of the greens.   Some players have said it's a little bit slower than what they usually get on Thursday.   
PHIL MICKELSON:   I don't get it.   They're soft and they are slow.   And consequently we have 45 people at par or better.   But that means that I've got to change my whole mindset and just get after these pins, because the ball's not running like it used to and I'm giving this course way too much respect because of my past knowledge than the way I should be playing it today.   
   
 Q.   On 15, have you seen 15 play easier, a lot a little downwind.   A lot of guys hitting 7s or 8s in there?  
PHIL MICKELSON:   Or 9s.   But they don't have Frankenwood, so.  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT