WGC CADILLAC CHAMPIONSHIP
March 7, 2013
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Is that going on the short game video?
PHIL MICKELSON:   No, it's not.   But You hit the ball in as much trouble as I do off the tee, you learn to hit those kind of shots and have enough practice at it, I kind of knew what was going to happen. 

Q.   Do you actually practice that a lot?
PHIL MICKELSON:   I practice it in realtime playing conditions, absolutely, yeah.   I'm in tournament conditions all the time.   I remember making an eagle on No. 7 at Spyglass with a 6‑iron off the cart path.   It's sometimes a better option than trying to drop in the rough or in this case, in a sandy bare lie with the grain and the grass into me slightly where contact would really have been an issue.

Q.   Is that harder to do in a short I'mgation, situation []?
PHIL MICKELSON:   It's easier with a straighter‑faced club, because yes, with my 60‑degree the leading edge is going into the ball first so it's hard to keep that leading edge down, especially with as much bounce as a 60‑degree has.   But I'm okay with a wedge, so it wasn't too bad. 

Q.   How would you just overall assess what you did today, maybe in relation to, I know you had a couple weeks off and whatnot?
PHIL MICKELSON:   I was nervous about this first round.   This is the biggest round for me that I felt could go either way, after having two weeks off.   Even though I practiced last week, I didn't know how I would be as far as my ability to focus on each shot, as far as my patience, energy level, what have you. 
But it all was pretty good today.   I was able focus throughout the round, stayed patient, hit a lot of 3‑woods off the tee.   I've got an awesome new 3‑wood.   You know how much I love my driver, obviously, I love hitting that at Phoenix. 
But I've got a new X Hot 3‑wood I'm going to be using a lot this week.   I hit a lot of fairways with it that allowed me to hit a lot of greens, and the rough is more penalizing and severe than in years past, and it's going to be important to get them all in the fairway. 
I would say that you're going to hit the green out of the rough less than 20 percent of the time; it's that difficult.   So it was important to get the ball in play, which I did well today. 

Q.   General in general, course conditions pretty easy today?
PHIL MICKELSON:   It's as easy winds‑wise as we could possibly have it, but the greens are very firm, tough to get the ball stopped.   The rough is challenging, and I would expect a huge discrepancy in scores.   Guys that play really well can score well because you can reach the par 5s.   Guys that play poorly are going to struggle and shoot over par, because it's tough to force birdies out here. 

Q.   Your group was I think 16‑under total.   Do you feed off each other if somebody is playing well? 
PHIL MICKELSON:   It shouldn't matter, it really shouldn't matter.   But all three of us had a fun time today.   We had a great inter action and conversation we got in a good groove and started playing well and I guess you could say that happened but it really shouldn't matter what your partners are doing. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT