WGC CADILLAC CHAMPIONSHIP
March 9, 2013
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Can you just talk about that round a little bit, please?   
PHIL MICKELSON:   It was an interesting 3‑under par round.   It's not enough to make up ground on Tiger, and I'm going to have play really an incredible round tomorrow.   
But I really don't have to play that different than I played today.   I threw away five or six shots on the greens and around the greens, and I feel like I don't have to play too much different.   I just can't afford to give away those shots.   I'm going to have to play a round like I played at Pebble last year, something in the low 60s.   
   
 Q.   You know how difficult Tiger is to catch; the statistics are pretty daunting.   How difficult is that.   Even if you get hot?  
PHIL MICKELSON:   Out here, it's not overly difficult for the reason that you can make a lot of birdies.   Even in tough conditions, even in wind, you can shoot in the mid 60s fairly easily.   
Look, I shot 69 today.   I 3‑putted from four feet on 3.   I didn't get up‑and‑down from off the edge on 8 and 10.   I missed a 5‑footer on 15.   There were shots out there that were numerous shots that could have brought it down to the score I need for tomorrow.   I really don't have to play that much differently.     It's a course where you can make a lot of pars, but it's not always easy to make birdies when you have to.   And if Steve or I can get off to a hot start, the group in front, I think we can make a run.   
   
 Q.   Talk about that shot on 18, what was going on there?  
PHIL MICKELSON:   I was asking for an official to give me a ruling on the TV tower, if it was movable or not movable, it was in my line of site.   I thought if I took relief, I could maybe get a better lie.   
I had 164, 57 to the front.   It was sitting kind of down and it was going to jump and I hit 9‑iron and just hit a flyer, and unfortunately‑‑ it turned out great.   But I felt like I could get a better lie if I took relief.   But it was movable, so it wasn't going to matter.  
   
 Q.   Were you watching leaderboards at all?   How much was that on your mind to slip into that last pairing?  
PHIL MICKELSON:   I thought the last I saw, McDowell was 12‑under, I thought it was between Stricker and I to get in the last group.   I didn't realize Graeme had eagled 16.   
But this might be a blessing, because I think that there have been so many times, here at Doral especially, where the winner has come from the group one or two in front of the leaders, and if we can get off to a hot start, like I said, it's tough to follow suit.   It's tough when you have to make birdies.   It's not as hard to make them first.   So if we can get hot, you never know.   
   
 Q.   You guys play together every day, and you've shot some pretty low numbers, you've been feeding off each other a little bit I would imagine in, right?   
PHIL MICKELSON:   We have.   We've laughed.   We've giggled.   We've had fun the whole time.   It's really been a fun three days, and we are going to have four, and hopefully we'll be shooting some low ones tomorrow.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT