AT&T PEBBLE BEACH NATIONAL PRO-AM
February 9, 2013
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How are you feeling after that fall?
PHIL MICKELSON:   I got lucky.   I didn't get hurt. 

Q.   How would you assess this day?
PHIL MICKELSON:   Well, it's a beautiful day here at Pebble.   We got perfect weather, and I just couldn't get going, and then to finish with a triple, it doesn't feel great, but it was really a fun day to play golf.   I just wish I had played a lot better. 

Q.   After Phoenix, coming in here ... how did you feel after such a great win there? 
PHIL MICKELSON:   It felt great to play well again in Phoenix.   I've been just a little bit off this week:   Just a little bit off on the greens, just a little bit off with the driving, just a little bit off with the irons.   It just has not quite been on.   I'll see if I can get ready for L.A. and maybe have one more round here tomorrow.

Q.   Is there anything that stands out why you've been off, or has it just been one of those weeks?
PHIL MICKELSON:   Yeah, I don't know.   I don't know.   I wish I did.   It would be easier to fix. 

Q.   Last year at this time we were standing here after three rounds and you said you had put yourself in position to win this golf tournament.   Seeing what happened today, how disappointing is it for you? 
PHIL MICKELSON:   Well, that triple takes a lot of the wind out, because if I could have made a birdie on last hole, been five‑‑ be within six, seven shots of the lead, you never know.   Kind of like what happened last year if I get a hot round, but now that put me a little bit too far back.

Q.   What does the last win do for the start of the season from a confidence standpoint?
PHIL MICKELSON:   Well, it's a good way to start the season with a win.   And I have one more tournament here next week at a L.A. before I take some time off, and hopefully I'll get one more good performance there and have something to build on.

Q.   You brought Butch in what you called an emergency session before Phoenix.   Will you see Butch between now and Northern Trust? 
PHIL MICKELSON:   Possibly.   Possibly.   We'll just see what time constraints I have, but we'll see. 

Q.   The way Snedeker has been playing, do you see anybody overhauling him? 
PHIL MICKELSON:   I haven't looked at the leaderboard to know exactly who is up there and whatnot.   But certainly he's been playing great golf these last couple of weeks, almost winning the last two weeks but coming just short and it looks like this could be his week. 
But final round at Pebble Beach, a lot of things happen and he has to play one more good round; I know he has it in him, but he still has to go do it.

Q.   What do you like about what he's doing out there? 
PHIL MICKELSON:   From what I saw when we played together at San Diego and then here, he just seems to be doing everything well and it looks easy:   He's driving the ball well, hitting good iron shots, wedges close and making some good putts. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT