MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 14, 2019
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. You said yesterday you were fractionally off and usually the next day it clicks. What kept it from clicking you outside of that four hole stretch on the front nine?
PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, I don't know how to say it, you got to just go for it out here, you've got to attack this golf course and when you're dialed in and you're hitting your numbers and getting it close and making putts you can really light it up and a lot of guys have been doing that. 
It just didn't quite all come together this week, but gosh it was a fun week and it is my favorite week of the year and I just, I love being here and I'm, I love the fact that I get to be a part of this tournament for the rest of my life. That's a special moment, it means a lot to me. 

Q. Being in contention going into the weekend and not being able to capitalize on that, how disappointing was that for you?
PHIL MICKELSON: Well, certainly it's, it makes the moments that you do come through and play your best that much more special because it's just not that easy to do. But I've enjoyed the four to six week lead up to this tournament, I've enjoyed the whole process of trying to play my best, unfortunately it didn't quite click this week, but it was a fun week and it was fun to be in contention for the weekend. 

Q. How much tougher was it today?
PHIL MICKELSON: It really wasn't tougher with the exception of the wind was just slightly more challenging, but the greens were receptive, they were rolling true, you could make a lot of birdies and eagles, they were actually a little bit easier pins, I thought, so the wind was just slightly more difficult. But, gosh, there were some low scores out there.

Q. Walk us through the double on 10 real quick. 
PHIL MICKELSON: I hit a poor drive. I drove it left there twice this week and made a 5 and a 6 and that was, that's a, it's ‑‑ you know, it happens. 

Q. What would you give advice to a lefty playing this course for the first time tomorrow?
PHIL MICKELSON: Well it sets up really well for lefties, so I just think that there's a lot of holes that is set up for our shot dispersion to go attack this place.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT