FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
January 24, 2013
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What's it like when you're playing with Brandt who is playing so well and you're chipping along kind of thing?   
    PHIL MICKELSON:   Well, it's fun to see a guy play well.   It shows you what you need to do.   I didn't play the best.   I hit it poorly.   I putted poorly.   But I love being here at Torrey Pines.   The golf course is in great shape, the greens are as firm as I've ever seen them, and I'll see if I can get it going tomorrow.   
    But it's still fun to come out here and play.   I always look forward to coming here.  
   
 Q.   Anything to blame for the slow start?  
    PHIL MICKELSON:   Yeah, very lethargic of the first tee.   I've got to get my head a little bit more focused on the shots, and I haven't been as mentally focused starting out.   So, hopefully, I'll be able to turn that around tomorrow and start a little bit more effectively in the future.  
   
 Q.   Can you win this tournament not putting up a real low score on the North Course?   Is that possible?   
    PHIL MICKELSON:   Sure.   It's going to take some exceptional golf over on the South, but three of the rounds are on the South.   And there are some low scores out there if you play the course right and effectively.   There's probably half the holes where you've got to play for par and the other half you can make some birdies.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
    PHIL MICKELSON:   Yeah, that's true, but that's not going to require really a bulldozer.   It's not going to be that big of change.   
   
 Q.   When you hit it today, were you thinking, gosh, I should do this or keep on thinking of changes?  
    PHIL MICKELSON:   We've been out here, and we've gone over it and walked the course and talked about every hole and looked at every little nuance on where it should be and how the run‑up shot should be, and how the average player's ball ease going to go.   We've already done that.   
    So when I go out there and play, I already see in my mind what it's going to be, and I'm just anxious to get it there because I see where it's at today, and where it's going to be, and it's going to be spectacular and something we're all very proud of because not only will it be playable and fun, but it's going to be visually so much more stimulating and exciting.  
   
 Q.   What do you expect tomorrow on the South?   
    PHIL MICKELSON:   I've got to shoot something in the 60s, and if I can get a couple of putts to go, I putted very poorly.   I've got to get that putter going.   If I can putt well, hopefully, the mid‑60s.  
   
 Q.   You said you started off lethargically, why?   
    PHIL MICKELSON:   I don't have a great reason, other than I seem to not be as focused on each shot as I need to be to be competitive.   That's something I'm going to be working on tomorrow is getting a better mental picture of the shot I'm trying to hit and create it.   Trying to get a better ‑‑ hold it longer while I'm creating the shot, while I'm creating the swing, but I haven't been as sharp as I need to be.  
   
 Q.   Did you get any comments about the tax thing from fans are they saying anything to you at all out there?   
    PHIL MICKELSON:   Nothing negative.   There have been some good positive ones though.  
   
 Q.   Did that have anything to do with the rough rounds today?   
    PHIL MICKELSON:   No, not at all.   I've been playing better than this, and there's no excuses.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT