MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 13, 2019
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. You made birdie on 18 to get to 2‑under for the day but you weren't able to make a big charge like some of the others out there. How come?
PHIL MICKELSON: I was just fractionally off. I missed a couple of short putts in the round on 5 and 6 and 13 and didn't, just didn't, just was a fraction off. I hit a good shot into 17, hit it in a bad spot over the green and when, every time I tried to get close I just was off today, I don't know what else to say. But I had a lot of fun, it's so fun being in contention and tomorrow you never know. I've got to shoot 7‑, 8‑, 9‑under par, but I love that I even have that chance. 

Q. With the X factor going off early, split tees, who knows what the weather's going to be, do you have that score in you?
PHIL MICKELSON: I think ‑‑ I had it today if I had just scored a little bit. That certainly should have been the score. So I just need to just put it all together for one round. 

Q. You're currently five back, which is, around here, is not a lot. Do you look at the shots, the number of people, or who the people are in front of you?
PHIL MICKELSON: Well given that there's so many people in front of me that you can't expect that one person to come back, so I have to go catch them, which means I've got to go shoot a low one. And I'll have to shoot, 7‑, 8‑, 9‑under par. I'm hitting the ball, I'm putting the ball well enough to do it but I just have to put it all together in that one round. 

Q. How much of an affect do you think this early start is going to have on the overall final round?
PHIL MICKELSON: The fact that we're going early I think it takes a way any adverse affect that the weather might bring in, so I think they put the integrity of the competition first as opposed to having us tee off right in the worst of the weather and having it carry over. 
So I think the Tournament is making the decision to really eliminate those adverse effects and how it might affect the Tournament outcome, I think it's a really good decision. 

Q. You said before the round you were going to be very aggressive today. I mean, is there more aggressive in your game for tomorrow?
PHIL MICKELSON: You know, when you get aggressive here like I did into 17 and the ball goes over, or I did into 13 and trying to get back there, and end up not making birdie, there's penalties if you don't pull the shot off.
And I tried to get aggressive today and I was close, I hit a great shot into 9 that I thought I stiffed it, it went just over the green and now I've got a really tough shot.
And it seemed like that was the theme of the day for me, but usually when that happens the next day's when it clicks, so I'm hopeful tomorrow's that day.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT