HUMANA CHALLENGE IN PARTNERSHIP WITH THE CLINTON FOUNDATION
January 18, 2013
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talk about your round today.   
PHIL MICKELSON:   The last two holes was the first time that I actually hit solid shots and my rhythm felt good and I made good swings.   
I've been quick from the top, my rhythm has been off, and I've hit a bunch of squirrely shots.   I made a lot of rusty mistakes, like that 3‑putt there, but it feels a lot better, the last couple holes feel a lot better, I'm looking forward to tomorrow's round.  
   
 Q.   The tee to green on 8, I thought that was the best of the day.   The tee shot was great, approach shot was great, it looked like you did everything you wanted to do there.   
PHIL MICKELSON:   It was.   Those were the best swings that I made.   It helps give me a little bit of direction heading into tomorrow's round.   I had been playing very well coming in here.   I've been amped up, excited, and I've been making some very over the top, quick swings and I haven't been my best.   But those last two holes were very encouraging.   I hope that I'll be able to get it dialed in tomorrow and I'll have to be a little bit sharper on the greens tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   What are you going to do to get ready for the Majors?   Anything different this year?  
PHIL MICKELSON:   Those are a ways away and I really want to build some momentum here on the west coast heading into those tournaments.   You don't want to go into those having not had some success, having not been in contention, having not had opportunities to win, because the pressure of winning a Masters will overcome that, will get the better of you, if you're not used to it and feeling confident.   
So it's important to get a good west coast start.   This has been a rusty couple of days for me, I'll try to play a good round tomorrow, make the cut, and then go into San Diego and see if I can put together some good golf and stay in contention.   
   
 Q.   You still sound a little under the weather, are you starting to feel a little better?  
PHIL MICKELSON:   I feel much better.   I was excited to get out and play.   I thought that this was a great day to go low.   I left a few shots out there, but the last couple holes were very encouraging to me.   They were the first time that my rhythm kind of set in.   
I've been very quick from the top, coming over the top and hitting some very poor shots.   Those last few holes were the first time I kind of settled in and hit some of the best solid shots coming down the stretch.   Hopefully I'll carry that into tomorrow's round, get some momentum and then try and play well next week in San Diego.   
   
 Q.   You look settled over your putts.   The putt you missed on 8, hey, you miss a few of those, but everything you hit today looked like it was going in.   
PHIL MICKELSON:   Thank you.   I hit a lot more solid putts and feel really good with the putter, even though I had a few that didn't go in.   You're right, I hit them very solid, where I wanted to and gave them chances and that's been kind of the goal.   
So these are a grass that I don't really putt my best on, I don't read them the best, the Bermuda with rye, I didn't grow up on it, but I hit some good solid putts on it and made some today and I'll try to carry that over to tomorrow's round.  
   
 Q.   You have two in a row on the Palmer, that's always a good thing, isn't it?  
PHIL MICKELSON:   I like that golf course.   You get a hot putter you can shoot, 7, 8, 9‑under there, it's been done, Duval shot 59 there.   
But I want to build some momentum.   Those last two holes, again, I finally got my rhythm and I expect to play a good round tomorrow and get some momentum.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT