MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 12, 2019
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. (No Microphone.)
PHIL MICKELSON: Low numbers, I spent some time here last week and was shooting some low numbers and if I can go shoot a good one tomorrow I'll be in it for Sunday.

Q. This was your round number 100. What does that one mean for you?
PHIL MICKELSON: Just that I'm getting old. But there's been so many more practice rounds that I've played here in addition to those hundred rounds and every time I come here I just get so excited to be here and to play and it brings back memories when I was a kid and it makes me feel young and it just has really been special to be able to come and spend so much time here. This is a very spiritual place if you love golf the way we do.

Q. You talk about experience mattering here. Do you almost learn something different about the course every time you play it?
PHIL MICKELSON: I do. I mean I learned a couple things last week just hitting some putts and shots around the greens that I didn't know the best way to play to certain holes. And so you always pick something up here‑‑ of course they're always changing little things, too, so you got to stay on top of it. 

Q. How good would a win make you feel?
PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, that would be pretty cool, but that's way ahead of myself. I got two long rounds, two fun rounds, but challenging, and it's just fun to be in the thick of it. 
It's been fun to compete earlier in the year, to have a win, and come close at Palm Springs, those opportunities are what are so fun, but at the Masters it's even to another level. 

Q. What's your most vivid memory of the first competitive round in '91?
PHIL MICKELSON: I remember hitting a good 8‑iron, high draw 8‑iron to that back right pin to make birdie and shoot 69. That shot stuck out for me. 

Q. You said yesterday I believe you just cared about the distance on the drives. You said today kind of ‑‑
PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, usually the harder I swing the straighter it will go and today that wasn't so much the case. So, but I hit some good drives. 
Like I hit a good drive on 17, unfortunately it was blocked out by the trees. I'm not, you know, a big fan of that. 
But I hit some good drives, but the ones that I missed were on critical holes. The birdie holes, like 15, hitting in the trees on 15, not being able to go for it. I would have had a 7‑ or 8‑iron in there and I ended up making par. So I let a few shots go. 
But I'm playing well, if I drive it well like I did yesterday, I'm going to have a good weekend.

Q. How big were those par saves that you made all over? I mean you had six and eight footers all day long. 
PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, yeah, my putting's been pretty good and the greens are not as slick as they usually are because of the rain and so you can, they're staying on line a little bit better.

Q. I know you said there's a long way to go, but what would it mean to you to be the oldest guy to win a major? I think you're ahead of Julius now. 
PHIL MICKELSON: I haven't thought of it but I think I've got another major in me and at least one, maybe two, and so I would love to get one right here, but like I say, you got to, you can't jump ahead to the end and there's a lot of good, fun, challenging golf in between. 

Q. What are you going to need to do to hit that driver in play?
PHIL MICKELSON: Just time it, just time it a little better. But it's not easy when ‑‑ you know, the speed is over 220 or this morning it was 224, or 124 on the range, so at that speed it's hard to time it. But there's enough room out here, if I just keep it within the trees I'm going to be all right.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT