THE RYDER CUP
September 30, 2012
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Coming in, felt like you had control going into 17.   
PHIL MICKELSON:   Yeah, I really did.   I had a chance to go 2‑up, and he made a good 12‑footer on top of me to halve it and I holed a chip shot on 17 that would have won it in my mind, except he made that 40‑footer to win the hole and the last hole he made a great birdie.   He played some great golf.   I thought I played pretty good, and you know, shot a decently‑low round.   But the last three holes, I, you know, I thought I had the match.   
He played phenomenal there.   
   
 Q.   Standing in the fairway at 18, what did you hit, and what would you do if you had to do it all over again?   
PHIL MICKELSON:   I guess I played for some hurt on 17 and 18 and there wasn't any.   Because I hit both shots, you know, right where I wanted to and the one on 18 was right over the pin, I thought it was going to be perfect.   
I'm looking at the flags now, they are blowing in, there's hurt but my ball wasn't touched.  
   
 Q.   What was the yardage and the club?   
PHIL MICKELSON:   I had 151, I hit just a little 8‑iron.   
   
 Q.   They front loaded and got what they were after‑‑  
PHIL MICKELSON:   I just thought if I won my match, you know, we've got guys, there's a bunch of red behind us.   It would just be fine.   Now I look up and you know, we've lost the first five and I'm obviously a little worried.   Fortunately DJ won and we have some guys that are up and close, but it's going to be close.   
Four or five matches going the European way‑‑ I thought we were going to get some of those.  
   
 Q.   Did Davis have any words of inspiration last night or this morning?   
PHIL MICKELSON:   Just keep playing well and there's lots of points out there.   We came out I thought pretty focused, but it was tough matched, and all 12 are going to be tough and hopefully we'll be able to pull through here in the end.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT