BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 8, 2012
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Phil, you didn't hit a bad shot today, did you?
PHIL MICKELSON:   I played well today.   I hit a lot of good shots and was really pleased with the way the round went.   It felt great to make some putts and see the ball roll in.   I played very similarly yesterday but a lot of the putts went up to the lip and didn't quite fall, whereas today they seemed to go in.

Q.   And 10 birdies when you look at the scorecard there?
PHIL MICKELSON:   Yeah, it was a good day.   When the greens are putting so true and soft and receptive, the fairways are soft, making it much easier to hit, you're going to see a lot of guys score low and makes birdies, and it was fun for me to get in the mix tomorrow with the shootout that we're about to have with so many top players. 

Q.   And to close out the round with that birdie from the fringe, nice way to end it?
PHIL MICKELSON:   Yeah, it was cool.   I got a little aggressive with that pin, and it fortunately was in a great spot to be able to putt it.   I went to go chase after it.   I thought I had made it right in the center, and then it almost missed low.   I had to pause for a second, but it caught the lower lip and went in.

Q.   Are you excited about a chance to win tomorrow or just the fact that you've had a couple weeks of playing progressively better?
PHIL MICKELSON:   I felt like after last week my game had finally come back.   I was driving the ball well, I was hitting good iron shots, I was making putts, short game was good.   I knew this week was going to be a good week.   I came out a little bit anxious the front nine on Thursday and didn't play well.   I kind of settled in and started to make some putts, started to make some birdies.   But the game feels really good.   It's finally back, and I'm looking forward to being in the mix tomorrow, but also the TOUR Championship and the Ryder Cup, I'm just glad that it's back in time. 

Q.   What did you hit into 17?
PHIL MICKELSON:   6.

Q.   Was that a good shot?
PHIL MICKELSON:   That was a salty little cut back into the wind, back into the left‑to‑right wind that held its line the whole way and fell out of the sky about four feet right of the pin and ended up five feet. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT