DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 1, 2012
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  PHIL MICKELSON:   I didn't hit as many fairways so I wasn't able to be as aggressive into the greens.   But I shot 3‑under my back nine, the front, and made some good birdies coming in.   I putted well, and I didn't think it was playing that easy.   There was a lot of crosswinds today, which is a different wind than what we had the day before. 
I thought that I played okay, and I'll have to get a hot round tomorrow to try to get into the final day.

Q.   How do you get a hot round going with the putter?   You're confident with the putter right now, and it's fun to watch you look excited to hit a putt. 
PHIL MICKELSON:   Yeah, I feel really good, especially on the short putts, and I made three 15‑footers today for birdie that felt really good.   And if I can get myself in position to be aggressive and hit some good iron shots, I think I can make a good run. 

Q.   Can you describe the start of your round, the front side, kind of up and down a little bit?
PHIL MICKELSON:   What do you mean, the back side or‑‑ I birdied 12, I hit a good drive and made a 12‑footer for birdie.   I bogeyed 15 and 16, I hit a poor drive on 15 in the trees, hit a second shot over the green and hit a poor chip to 50 feet and just two‑putted. 
Then missed the green on 16 to the right, where it's really a tough up‑and‑down today where the pin was.   Hit a pretty good shot to about 12 feet and didn't make it. 
But you're going to make some bogeys out here.   I ended up making a couple of birdies on the front nine and shooting 3‑under, I thought that was a pretty good round today given that we had an opposite wind, a lot of crosswinds, and I didn't think it was playing that easy.

Q.   Was there any one thing that helped trigger that turnaround on the back? 
PHIL MICKELSON:   I just made a couple of 15‑footers early on, and then knocked it close on 7 and 8, had a couple of tap‑ins on the par‑5s, hit a 5‑iron to a foot on 8, which was probably my best shot of the day.

Q.   How were the greens today, fairly receptive?
PHIL MICKELSON:   Yeah, they're receptive, and they're rolling terrific.   It's just that with the crosswind it was difficult to get the proper distance control and get it close.   I know that if you're striping it, you're hitting some great shots and everything is solid, you can get it close and make some birdies.   But if you miss it a little bit, the miss will be magnified.

Q.   How does it feel to be in contention at this point right now?
PHIL MICKELSON:   Yeah, it feels good.   I know that I need a hot round tomorrow for a good chance on Monday's final round, but the way I'm playing and the way I feel on the greens, I feel like I can do it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT