BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 5, 2012
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talk about the golf course.   I know it's wet.   How did it play out there?  
PHIL MICKELSON:   It played really well.   It's a wonderful course.   It's in great shape.   I think the greens are just pristine.   They are in such good condition.   You get a lot of putts going in.   I haven't seen surfaces this nice in a long time.  
   
 Q.   You were playing so well after Deutsche Bank.   You've got to be looking forward to tomorrow.   
PHIL MICKELSON:   I'm looking forward to this week.   My game is finally starting to come around.   I'm starting to drive the ball well and hit good iron shots, and my putting has been really good, too.   I'm looking forward to this week and the next couple.  
   
 Q.   Is the putting stroke getting more and more comfortable, or the grip that is?   
PHIL MICKELSON:   I guess it's more comfortable the more I've used it, but the results have been the same, and that's the ball starting on line, my touch has been good, and I've made a lot of putts.   
   
 Q.   How committed are you to that putting stroke?   
PHIL MICKELSON:   Yeah, I don't see me going back any time soon.   I really like it.   It's helped me with short putts, and then one of the other side effects has been the touch on longer putts has been great, and on fast greens it's even better because of the softness of my bottom hand.   It sits very lightly on the putter, and my touch is better.  
   
 Q.   You seem to have gotten comfortable with it pretty quick.   
PHIL MICKELSON:   Well, I had experimented with it on and off for a while, I just kind of practiced with it a little bit and wasn't sure if I wanted to do it or not.   But after a rough putting round at Barclays I ended up going to it and had a great day the next day.   I would expect it to be there for a while.   To be honest with you, I don't see me changing any time soon.  
   
 Q.   You putted so well early in the year, at Pebble Beach and so forth.   Is there a point that it went off?   
PHIL MICKELSON:   I think the last three or four months where my game has just been a little south, I was just kind of searching for something different.   I've been trying to piece my game back together.   Finally my irons came back first.   I started hitting a lot of good iron shots.   My driver has now come around where I'm hitting it really well off the tee.   And the last thing was putting, and I feel really good with it.   I feel like the touch is there and it's a very stress‑free way to putt because the ball is starting on line.  
   
 Q.   Did Stockton give the okay on that?   
PHIL MICKELSON:   Yeah.   I mean, there's a lot of things that I still learn from Stockton about looking and reading greens, pre‑shot routine and so forth, technique, but this has been good for me.  
   
 Q.   You have a sense of where Tiger's game is.   Do you see him winning majors again?  
PHIL MICKELSON:   Oh, yeah, unfortunately.  
   
 Q.   Do you think he's really close?   
PHIL MICKELSON:   Yeah, his game looks tremendous.   
   
 Q.   He has not been on a winning Ryder Cup team since the '99 team.   Are you getting any sense from talking to him about how focused he is on that, for Medinah?  
PHIL MICKELSON:   Yeah, he's been really a big part of the team the last few years at the Presidents Cup and the Ryder Cup and has really had a good time in the team room, and I think he really looks forward to those weeks.   I think we all do.   As we get older, we really come to appreciate those weeks for what they are, and they're a great opportunity to develop friendships, to represent your country certainly, and to have a memory that will last a lifetime.   
   
 Q.   You put your arm around Hunter a couple years ago at Wales.   Have you had sort of had a chance to commiserate with him?   
PHIL MICKELSON:   Well, I just sent a text, but Hunter is a great player, had a phenomenal year, played very well early in the year, has won twice.   He's going to be a mainstay on our team.   He's going to be back on Presidents Cup teams, on Ryder Cup teams, and the players love having him on the team.   He's a tremendous person and a real asset.   
You can't fault Davis for the guys he put on the team because they probably at this moment give the U.S. side the best opportunity to win.   Either way, there's going to be a tough decision and somebody is going to be left off that's very deserving of being on.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT