PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 12, 2012
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  PHIL MICKELSON:   This was really a good golf course for this tournament.   I mean, it really hosted it well.   The first two days I didn't strike it that well but I fought hard to stay in there.   The last two days my game started to come around.   Even though the score wasn't there, I hit a lot of nice shots, and I'm optimistic now coming into the FedExCup.   I wish it had come a week earlier and I was firing on all cylinders coming into this week.   But I was happy to see my ball‑striking started to come around.  
   
 Q.   You're in favor of this venue hosting another major championship?  
PHIL MICKELSON:   Well, I don't know of all the logistics because I've heard that it's been very difficult on the spectators.   We have some of the most loyal fans in golf when you hear what they had to go through.   They had to park a long ways away, they had to take a big bus ride in, and you walk this difficult golf course, and you don't get to see much action.   We are very appreciative of what the fans here go through because it's not the easiest venue for them to watch and observe.   
   
 Q.   There's a lot of big tournaments still coming up, Playoffs, Ryder Cup.   What do you take from this week?   
PHIL MICKELSON:   Well, I felt like the last two days my ball‑striking really started to turn around, and I feel much better about my game.   Even though the score wasn't there, I hit some good shots, and I was pretty pleased with how it started to come around.   I had some opportunities to make a run.   Unfortunately I putted very poorly the last two days.   But I'm looking forward to the upcoming stretch here with the FedExCup and the Ryder Cup hopefully.   
   
 Q.   You mentioned the difficulty in getting here, but as far as playing this thing for a major championship, was it a fair test?  
PHIL MICKELSON:   Yeah, it's a great test of golf, because the wonderful thing about Kiawah here is that if you hit a good shot, you're rewarded, and you get a good result every time, and if you hit a bad shot, you have a bad result.   That sounds pretty straightforward, but that's not the way it's been lately.   The last couple majors, you hit great shots, and they just turn out in horrendous spots, and that doesn't happen here.   If you hit a good shot here at Kiawah you get rewarded, and I think the best players came to the top.  
   
 Q.   You were hanging right on that No.8 spot in the Ryder Cup points.   Do you feel like you'll be able to maintain it?  
PHIL MICKELSON:   I haven't looked.   There's a couple of guys that could pass me, but I haven't been looking, I've just been more worried about trying to get my own game going, so we'll see.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT