ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 15, 2012
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  PHIL MICKELSON:   I thought it was a great week.   The course is just a wonderful golf course.   It's fun to play.   And given that I had not played well, to have those two good rounds, the second and third round was terrific.   
And then to be able to play in some challenging conditions today was really a plus, too.   I felt like the players who played here got a lot out of the week, myself especially.   
Looking forward to heading south and next week's tournament.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel in good shape now?   Do you feel 100 per cent ready?   
PHIL MICKELSON:   Well, I don't think I'll ever say I feel 100 per cent.   I feel a lot better than I did three days ago, that's for sure.   So I got a lot of good work here.   I also had a couple of things happen today that showed me what areas I need to work on in the couple of days heading into next week's Open.   
All in all I thought it was a really good week.  
   
 Q.   Given that you were close last year, discovered a bit of form, should we expect to see you‑‑  
PHIL MICKELSON:   I don't know.   It's tough to say.   I think if I had not had the week I had here, I would say probably not.   But after playing this week and having some success, seeing what I can work on, and having a little bit of experience now these last four days, I think my chances improve.   But I'll never say that it's a hundred per cent.  
   
 Q.   What sort of things do you need to work on?   
PHIL MICKELSON:   Some of my chipping out of the rough wasn't as effective as I would like.   Some of my lag putting wasn't as good as I would like.   And some of my draws into a slice wind off the tee were not what I would like.   I pulled a few more than I wanted.   I didn't quite trust the turn.   The first hole was a good example.   There was a couple of others; the last tee shot on 18, little things like that.   So I'll practise drawing into a slice wind.  
   
 Q.   Who do you like the look of for next week?   
PHIL MICKELSON:   I don't know.   I haven't thought about it.   There's a lot of good players though, that's for sure.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT