U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 14, 2012
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Rough start right from the first swing, I guess?
PHIL MICKELSON:   Yeah, it was a ‑‑ I didn't play very well, obviously.   You could see that. 
I fought hard there for a while trying to keep it a few over.   3‑putting 4 really hurt because I probably tried to get a little aggressive, I felt like I needed one birdie there and got a little aggressive and ended up 3‑putting.   But it was a tough day when you play it the way I did. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
PHIL MICKELSON:   I hooked it, I was trying to make sure that I hooked it into a slice wind and I pulled it over into the trees and it must have stayed up there, because nobody ever saw it or heard it come down. 
I started off with bogey, I mean I made a pretty good bogey thereafter.   I just let it continue, unfortunately.   I wasn't able to get it stopped. 

Q.   The second shot on your second hole, you seemed like you were in a decent position and then something happened?
PHIL MICKELSON:   Yeah, it's sometimes a tendency that I'll have in a U.S. Open.   I'll make tentative swings because of what could happen as opposed to making aggressive, confident swings.   I hit a very poor wedge there into a bunker and didn't get up‑and‑down. 

Q.   You're obviously looking for something as you're trying to get from point A to point B and find something that you can work with, how many different things went through your head to say maybe I can try this or maybe I can do that?
PHIL MICKELSON:   Right around 18 and 1 I started to hit it a little bit better.   The score didn't really stay great but I started to hit it a little bit better. 
I've got a tough challenge just to get to the weekend tomorrow.   Unfortunately.   But I think that we don't get to see or have the opportunity to test ourselves under such a difficult condition so I'll go out tomorrow and see if I can shoot something under par.   I think that it will be kind of have to put this round aside for now and see if I can just play one round under par and maybe that will get me to the weekend.

Q.   Did you know what you wanted to try and change?
PHIL MICKELSON:   I think so.   I'm going to go hit some balls.   I think I have an idea of what I'm trying to do now. 

Q.   What are your thoughts on Tiger round, 1 under, pretty solid?
PHIL MICKELSON:   Yeah, he struck it really well.   He's playing really well.   Had really solid control of his flight, trajectory, the way it occurred, it was impressive. 

Q.   You played well here top‑10 in '98, relatively, were you, did you know what to expect out there and is this as tough a U.S. Open course as there is?
PHIL MICKELSON:   As there is?   I don't know comparatively, but it's a very difficult challenge and if you have great control of your ball flight, of your game, you can shoot a number around par and under par.   But if you play like I did and you start missing it off the tee and 3‑putting, you're going to shoot a high number like I did. 

Q.   How difficult was it for you when you start going over par for to stay within the game plan and to stay conservative and just get it in the middle of the green?
PHIL MICKELSON:   It's a different mindset here knowing this you're unlikely to get birdies and get shots back that you're just trying to make pars after you make some bogeys.   That's a difficult mindset to change. 
For awhile there I was able to hang tough and when I tried to force a birdie on 4 I ended up making bogey.

Q.   The 10 shot rule has been eliminated.   Were players given notice of that on the cut change?
PHIL MICKELSON:   Honestly I haven't looked.   If there might be a note or something, I don't know.   I haven't really looked at it. 

Q.   Do you have any issues or comments about the course setup?
PHIL MICKELSON:   It's a very challenging test.   I think that if you play it effectively, if you strike it well and control your ball flight the way Tiger did, the way a couple other guys did you can shoot par or better. 
We don't get a chance to play under these conditions very often, so tomorrow I'm going to try to see if I can just shoot around under par.   That will be a good challenge for me.   I got to kind of wipe this round out.   I can't really think about the lead or anything I just got to make the cut right now and to do that I got to shoot something under par. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT