HP BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 19, 2012
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Can you talk about the big chip there at the end? 
PHIL MICKELSON:   It was a fun way to end the day.   It was a day where I had a lot of opportunities to get right back in the mix and made four or five mistakes there, sloppy bogeys, but I made some good birdies today and had some good things happen. 
So hopefully I'll get out tomorrow and play a good round.   I think I will be too far back to make a run but you never know, try to get a hot front nine tomorrow. 

Q.   Phil, you've played that hole a lot.   Yesterday you hit it in the water; tell me how you like to play 18 there. 
PHIL MICKELSON:   I prefer to not hit it in the water.   (Laughter.)   That's more effective.   The way the water cuts out in front, into the fairway, at an angle, it sets you up to hit it in the right rough.   It's difficult to get it to work around the corner. 
I don't know what the best way to play it is.   I just try to hit driver, and I started out over the water, and the wind brought it back, and it's a tough fairway for me to hit. 

Q.   In the few years since you've been out here or in the last couple of days, what have you noticed about the energy, the gallery? 
PHIL MICKELSON:   This tournament gets a lot of support from the community, more so than most.   A lot of people come out, it's fun to play in front of this many people. 
The golf course, the way the hole‑‑ the mounding behind the hole to frame the hole sets up for great viewership.   A lot of people can come out and watch and have great views of the action, and it's really an exciting place to watch a golf tournament. 

Q.   Phil, you said you weren't happy with your ball striking yesterday.   How much better was it today and how do you feel overall? 
PHIL MICKELSON:   It wasn't that much better today.   I hit a lot of wild shots today.   I was able to make some birdies, though, but made too many mistakes.   The way I hit it‑‑ I hit it very well the last two weeks but didn't score well.   Today and yesterday, my ball striking was poor, and I'll see if I can get it turned around for tomorrow.   Doesn't feel like it's far off but not as good as I needed, especially into the wind where the winds are magnified. 

Q.   How difficult was the course? 
PHIL MICKELSON:   It wasn't anymore difficult than yesterday.   It was about the same.   From what I saw scorewise, it's about the same, too. 

Q.   Are you into social media? 
PHIL MICKELSON:   Oh, no, I think there is some great things about social media; it's not for me.   I think it's great for a lot of people, yeah. 

Q.   (Away from mic.)
PHIL MICKELSON:   Well, your cameraman, no.   I think your camera guy is very professional.   I can't even hear him, look, not even now he's not talking, but, unfortunately, not everybody is as professional as your man right there.   (Laughter.)
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, Phil.   







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT