WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 4, 2012
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   I thought you hit a lot of great little short irons into greens, around the greens, but the putter just‑‑ you had a lot of chances, they just wouldn't go in?
PHIL MICKELSON:   No, I played well today.   I don't know what to say.   It was a different course than what I saw yesterday morning.   I haven't seen as big a change since like Shinnecock '95 where it was a whole different course, so I played well today.   I didn't get the ball in the hole as well as I would have liked, but I hit a lot of good putts that caught the lip, I hit a lot of putts that just didn't go in and I hit a lot of good shots that just didn't end up‑‑ didn't quite go my way today, but I played really well.   I'm not disappointed.

Q.   What changed the course, the conditions or more the setup?
PHIL MICKELSON:   Mainly the conditions of the greens and then the wind picked up, so when we had swirling winds that made it difficult for club selection and the firmness and speed of the greens was challenging.   But everybody had to play it.

Q.   Was there a particular hole where the wind was‑‑ you maybe clubbed down or clubbed up? 
PHIL MICKELSON:   There were a lot of them that I was just a little bit off.   But I thought that I hit a lot of good shots, so I wasn't displeased. 

Q.   Can you speak to the fact that Rory made it on the number here and won here?
PHIL MICKELSON:   I think there's a good chance that if it does the same thing it's done the first two days where it plays a little bit softer in the morning, I think there's some really low scores in the morning, I think as the greens firm up and get a little bit glossier in the afternoon, I think it becomes a challenge.   There's a good chance some guys could get all hot in the morning and make up some ground.

Q.   Any greens in particular that were trickier with the firmness?
PHIL MICKELSON:   They were all challenging.   They were all challenging to get close.   But there were still some birdie holes.   There's reachable par‑5s.   There's holes you could birdie.   And the back nine I just didn't take advantage of some of those later in the round.

Q.   Before you teed off were you looking at some of the early scores and thinking it was going to be that kind of day for everybody?
PHIL MICKELSON:   Yeah, but once I got to the second hole I realized that may have been the case in the morning but it was a different case for us.   We're going to have to be more patient and not attack so much.   You had to really respect some of the shots, some of the holes.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT