WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 3, 2012
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  PHIL MICKELSON:   The course is in great shape, and tee to green it's one of the best courses I've ever seen.   It's fun to play, and I played pretty well today.   I hit a lot of good shots.   I hit a lot of greens but made one mistake with the triple there.   That was a really poor tee shot out of bounds and made triple.   Fortunately I came back to shoot 1‑under and I'll try and come out tomorrow and shoot something mid 60s and get into the weekend.  
   
 Q.   How important was it to stay in it after the triple?  
PHIL MICKELSON:   Yeah, it was a good way to finish there with a birdie on 8 and to just not shoot myself out of it.   It wasn't the great round I was hoping for, but again, it's right there where if I can get a hot round, I'll get right in it.  
   
 Q.   How did you think you putted?   You were 1‑under making the turn but you had some chances at 10, 13?  
PHIL MICKELSON:   Yeah, the putts that went in were on 1 and 2 at the turn there, my 10th and 11th holes.   The putter felt great.   I didn't make every one, but I'm rolling them on my line.   They're very tough greens to read because there's a lot of roll to them, so you might get a little bit of double break or a little influence one way at the ball, a little influence the other way at the hole, and they're challenging, and I thought I hit a lot of good putts, and some in the middle of the round went in.  
   
 Q.   As you leave here today do you think about the 17 really good holes you had?  
PHIL MICKELSON:   Yeah, I'm not overly concerned because I feel like, again, there's a hot round out there.   I'll come out here tomorrow afternoon and see if I can shoot something mid 60s and get right in it for the weekend.   We've seen with McIlroy in 2010, the guy who makes the cut on the number can still win this tournament.   It's not something I'll stress about.   It was actually an encouraging round in that I felt like I hit a lot of good shots.   
   
 Q.   Any similarities from today to the last round of Augusta where you had the early hiccup but bounced back from there?  
PHIL MICKELSON:   The similarities would be the score and the triple, but really I played much better at Augusta than I did today.   Even though I hit a lot of good iron shots and there was a lot of good shots I was pleased with, I also hit some‑‑ I had some shots that were much bigger misses than at Augusta.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT