SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
March 31, 2012
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Phil, 2-under Par 70 in the third round.   How would you characterize it?  
PHIL MICKELSON:   Well, I played really well today.   I was pleased with the way I played.   I hit the ball well, was patient all today, and had a lot of putts lip out.   I hit a lot of good putts.   I was really pleased with the way the day went.   I'm looking forward to tomorrow because I feel like I'm real really close to lighting one of these rounds up.  
   
 Q.   How frustrated were you to see a lot of them burn the edge?  
PHIL MICKELSON:   Instead of getting frustrated, I came in contact and hit more good shots.   I gave myself good opportunities.   I'm really pleased the way I played the first three rounds.   Hopefully I can get a really hot round tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Was there a change in putter?  
CARL PETTERSSON:   Just for today.   I'll do this every now and then when I feel like my alignment is off and I'll go back to the blade tomorrow.   I like the way I putted.   I just did it for alignment purposes.  
   
 Q.   You know you can go low here on the weekend.   You did it a year ago.   Will you draw on some of that experience?  
CARL PETTERSSON:   Sure.   Sure.   I'll be going after it tomorrow really firing at pins and putting and having them go in at a little more pace.   I think there's a really hot round out there I think that some guys shot that today.   I feel like there's a 65, 4, 3, out there.  
   
 Q.   How pleased are you with today's round?  
PHIL MICKELSON:   I'm pleased with how I played, but I'm disappointed in the score.   I need to go a little bit lower.   I feel like I'm playing well to where I can get a really hot round out here.   I did it last year, and I thought I'm even playing better to where if I get off the a good start or make a few putts, I feel like I can really get it going tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Were conditions tougher out there today?  
PHIL MICKELSON:   I thought they were very comparable.   We saw some low rounds.   It was there.   I had a really good chance on a number of holes to get the round going low.   I didn't quite get them to fall in.   I had a bunch of lip-outs.  
   
 Q.   Talk about the mindset going into tomorrow, knowing you've done well here before on the final day?  
PHIL MICKELSON:   I know I need to shoot a really low round out here, but I know it's there.   I know that I can do it.   I've done it.   But I know that with the conditions right now, you can shoot 6, 7, 8, 9 under par, and hopefully that's what I'm going to be shooting for tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Are you dining with Doctor B tonight?  
PHIL MICKELSON:   Yeah.   That's our ritual out here.  
   
 Q.   You said you didn't get frustrated, you played along.   Was there a stretch of holes where you could have gotten frustrated and you just --  
PHIL MICKELSON:   Yes.   10, 11, 12 was an area of the round where I needed to make something happen, and I hit three shots that on the green, two putts on 11 and 12, and a chip on 10 that I thought all of them were going to go in.   They all missed just barely, and instead of letting it get to me, I fought hard and birdied 13, hung tough.   Those are going to have to fall tomorrow and I think they might.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT