SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
March 30, 2012
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Phil, well played out there, nice come back to get things going this morning.  
PHIL MICKELSON:   Yeah.   We had some good conditions because the wind wasn't really blowing.   It was ideal.   The only exception being, you know, if you hit a good tee shot, you were going to have a lot of mud on your ball.   Other than that, we had phenomenal conditions to come out and play.  
   
 Q.   Looks like you're putting well?  
PHIL MICKELSON:   I felt good with the putter all year.   You get greens like this where they're so true, you should make everything.   It's frustrating when you miss one, because they're just perfect greens.  
   
 Q.   Well played today.   Get a little bit of rest.   See you this afternoon.   
PHIL MICKELSON:   Thank you.  
   
 Q.   Thanks so much.   
Here with the defending champion who closed in 65 to win the title a year ago.   Opened with 65 today.   Other than the hiccup on 13, pretty good round.  
PHIL MICKELSON:   I played really well.   I swung it well and, you know, there's not much you can do about stuff like that.   Every shot in the fairway had a bunch of mud on it.   It was tough maneuvering around there.   There was no wind.   The conditions were ideal.   The greens were immaculate.   If you could get it on the surface, you felt like could you make some putts.  
   
 Q.   Few schools of thoughts playing before the Majors.   Why do you do it and why does it help you for next week?  
PHIL MICKELSON:   For me personally it gets me in a competitive frame of mind.   I don't like having a ten-day break between competitive rounds.   It's an individual thing.   Everybody has got to find out what's best for them.  
   
 Q.   How much inspiration do you take coming back to a town that's meant so much to you both on and off the course?  
PHIL MICKELSON:   I enjoy coming back here because there's a lot of people that have done a lot for me and my family.   After winning last year, I got a lot of great memories, too, of the golf course and playing out here.  
   
 Q.   Great putting, nine out of the first ten greens, one putt.  
PHIL MICKELSON:   A fun round.   The course is in immaculate shape.   We had great conditions today without the wind, and the golf course was soft and so you could get at a lot of pins, lot of the tucked pins you could get at.   Played aggressively today.   I was able to get seven.   Fred shot five.   Charl was up there, too.  
   
 Q.   Was the mud a factor?  
PHIL MICKELSON:   The only downside, every ball hit in the fairway had a clump of mud.   I had one that shot left on 13 in the hazard, but again, if -- the conditions were so good that you could really get aggressive and make a lot of putts on the greens.   Greens are just pristine.  
   
 Q.   How disconcerting was it to have to stop yesterday?  
PHIL MICKELSON:   Well, I like being able to come out and play a lot of holes in one day, because if you start playing well, you get in a good rhythm.   You can really make a lot of birdies, especially out here.   I think it might be a benefit to be able the play 33 holes today because I feel like I've been playing well and now I can get a good rhythm going in the second round, too.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT