TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP BY COCA-COLA
September 22, 2011
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. 2-under 68, your thoughts on the round? 
 PHIL MICKELSON: Gosh, the golf course is in such good shape, and it's really a phenomenal place to finish, so much history here you can't help but enjoy the round, and I played well today. I let a few shots slide, I gave a few away, but I played well. And mentally I'm in it, whereas the last few months I haven't really been as focused as I'd like to be. I feel a lot better heading into this week, and I felt like it was a good start and hopefully it will continue.

 Q. I watched you played yesterday and you looked so comfortable on the greens. Did that continue today?
 PHIL MICKELSON: I didn't make very many. I had a lot of putts that I hit well that didn't go in that were either the speed was off, green was off, they were coming over the edge. But I don't feel like it's far off. I don't feel like I started them offline or was having a problem with that. I just need to get more dialed in to what the ball is going to do on the green, and it shouldn't be too hard of a fix. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 PHIL MICKELSON: Well, there's a few guys that Fred is looking at, so I don't want to try to single out one guy, because as a player, you've got to support whatever the captain decides is best for the team and would be the best addition for whatever reason, whether it's chemistry, whether it's game, whether it's experience, whatever. 
 But Keegan is a very solid player in all areas, and the thing about him that would be so deadly in match play is his ability on the green. He makes some 10- to 30-footers, and if he doesn't, it looks like they're going to go in, even if they don't. I think that would be a very tough combination in a match play format, in any format. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 PHIL MICKELSON: I think East Lake is kind of a great place to have our finale and our season-ending event.

 Q. This time of year does it seem to --
 PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, the longer it lingers, it adds a real purpose, and to have the FedExCup now always come down to this tournament, however the point system is, it's going to always come down to this tournament now, it's exciting. To have guys competing for $10, $11 million down the stretch, yeah, we definitely feel that.

 Q. What did this feel like a couple years ago when you won the TOUR Championship? 
 PHIL MICKELSON: It was very satisfying to end the year with a win, and it meant a lot to finish that way. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT