BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 15, 2011
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   PHIL MICKELSON: It's kind of nice weather actually to get out of some of the heat we've had. 

 Q. Would you talk a little bit about the slow start, you kind of found your way a little bit around the turn?
 PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, I made some bogeys and doubles early and was 4-over through 5 but fought back to get it to even par and thought I had turned it around and then made one bad swing off the tee on 18. But again, fought hard with the provisional to make birdie with that ball and made bogey on the hole. 
 Never really had it going great today, but the middle of the round there I had a nice little stretch of four birdies in a row to get it right back to even.

 Q. Gary said early on it was so tough for all of you guys, joking about how nobody could make a birdie?
 PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, we got it going there when we started to get some downwind holes like 8, 9, 10, 11, 12. There were some birdie holes there.

 Q. How much of a factor was the wind? It seemed like it was swirling a little bit. 
 PHIL MICKELSON: It was certainly challenging. It made it a lot more difficult. But there were some low scores out there. There's no reason not to play well or score well because the greens were receptive, and so with the ball stopping fairly quickly on the greens, you should be able to score well. 

 Q. Do any of the fans out there seem to know about your comments from the last couple days? Did they say anything either way, supportive or anything?
 PHIL MICKELSON: No, it really hasn't been an issue. 

 Q. Your last win was on a Rees Jones course. Is there irony there? It doesn't say you can't play them necessarily. 
 PHIL MICKELSON: No, everybody has got to play it. Everybody has got to play it. 

 Q. If Frank Jemsek called you up and said let's sit down and talk about what you'd like to see different with this golf course, would you be amenable to that?
 PHIL MICKELSON: You know, I feel like the Jemsek family has meant a lot to golf, and there's a lot of families that have meant a lot to the game, and I feel like as a player I would owe it to them to at least answer questions that they may have. 

 Q. On 18, nothing more complicated than a bad swing off the tee. 
 PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, I'd hit some poor drives there for a little while, blocked a couple and I just overcompensated and flipped it and hit it out of bounds. If I miss the fairway right there, there's that big road, it's just going to kick out of bounds every time, and that's what happened. I've done it before there.

 Q. No. 9 you almost reached, right? 
 PHIL MICKELSON: Yes.

 Q. And is that unusual?
 PHIL MICKELSON: Well, it's straight downwind. I hit a good drive and 3-wood just to the front, just short.

 Q. Do you think you've ever reached that one in two?
 PHIL MICKELSON: Well, I used to be able to, yeah.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT