ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 8, 2019
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  (Question about Dan Jenkins.)  
PHIL MICKELSON: TR and he were pretty close.   
 Q.  Did you read much of his stuff?  
PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, he was great.   
 Q.  Your thoughts?  
PHIL MICKELSON: I thought he was just a great writer, he was able to paint a great picture with his words.   
 Q.  Was there an instance where he made an overture to you to have a dinner with the two of you at some point?  
PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah.   
 Q.  It wasn't that long ago, is that right?  
PHIL MICKELSON: Correct.  Yeah.   
 Q.  Do you recall anything about it?  
PHIL MICKELSON: It was all through TR.  TR and he were pretty close, he spent a lot of time with him.   
 Q.  The difference between yesterday and today?  
PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, I didn't play he very well today.  It's a penalizing course if you don't hit very good shots, and I hit some terrible shots today that's probably the score I deserved.   
 Q.  Was this solidify what you're going to do next week at this point?  
PHIL MICKELSON: No, I'm going to go play a practice round Tuesday, I'll play nine and take a look and, I mean, I want to play it, so I would most likely -- but if I hit it like this, it's pointless, so I got to figure something out.   
 Q.  Is it more about how you're playing or something that you're looking for that?  
PHIL MICKELSON: It's a little bit of both.  When you go to Augusta, you've, I feel less, I feel like I don't have to be perfect and so I end up making better swings, I hit a lot more good shots and my misses are playable.  And then you get out here, and the fairways are tight, the rough is thicker, and then I start to steer it and I start to make some horrific swings.  I haven't hit some of the shots I hit today in a long time, but when I get a little steery and don't swing, I try to guide it, I hit some terrible shots.  THE PLAYERS is a place you can make some steery swings.   
 Q.  So are you concerned then that you don't want to put yourself in a bad place if you have a bad week there?  
PHIL MICKELSON: I look at it I'm going to play 20 events.  So I want to play the ones that give me the best chance of winning.  If I don't play there next week I'll add something else and if I do play there I'm going to take away something else.  So I'm going to end up at 20, it's just going to be how I feel like how my game feels, how it looks.  If it's softer, it's a lot easier to play.  So there's a good -- I mean if there's some rain or it's softer, I would expect I would play.   
 Q.  This isn't the couple days you would have wanted out here, but how do you look at it?  
PHIL MICKELSON: I didn't play very well today I shot the score I probably should have shot.  I hit some terrible shots, it's a hard course and it's a very hard course to get the ball close to the hole, so you end up, whenever I tried to make birdie I end up making bogey.  So you have to play every hole for par, which is a little bit boring for me and I just didn't play well today though.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT