THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 29, 2011
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. On the backside, you excited everybody out there?
 PHIL MICKELSON: I played well today. I don't know what to be disappointed about. I hit a few shots on the front nine that were actually really good shots that left me no chance to recover, and ended up trying to come back the back. But fell a couple of shots shy there.

 Q. You didn't play last year here, but this course is pretty tough, wouldn't you say, first time you saw it?
 PHIL MICKELSON: The reason I came was last year I saw it was 22 under 1. And every course has this eagle, like we've got to make it longer, harder, longer, harder. We don't want pros shooting way under par. 
 I thought, gosh, how refreshing 22 under 1, let's have at it, have some fun. I didn't know it went under this renovation. This course is brutally difficult, I thought.

 Q. What's next for you? I know you're playing the next couple of weeks. What's the thought process?
 PHIL MICKELSON: I'll go up home for a couple of days head up to Akron, get ready for the PGA. I know I missed the cut. I played really well. Hit a lot of good golf shots. Not disappointed at all.

 Q. Playing with Tom Watson, for the first time, probably the last time, for both of your great careers. That had to be neat. 
 PHIL MICKELSON: It was fun. He strikes the ball very solid. He doesn't miss very many fairways. And it's fun to see him playing and playing well. I know he didn't play the way he wanted to. But, again, this is playing very difficult, and to see him play well at the British, it's cool. 
 Shot a couple over. I played really well. I hit a lot of good shots today. It's a very hard golf course. It's hard to get the ball stopped. I hit sand wedges 40, 50 feet in. It's hard to get the ball close. But I played well. I hit a lot of good shots. Unfortunately I won't be able to play any more on the weekend.

 Q. Talk about the whole experience. 
 PHIL MICKELSON: This has been a really fun few days. I wish we had a couple more days here. But it's been really fun. There's a lot of fun things to do here, with the family, we took advantage of a lot of it. 

 Q. (Inaudible)? 
 PHIL MICKELSON: Well, it helps the ball fly farther and fly straighter, I feel, this warm temperature. 

 Q. Tell us about the grouping you had these last two days. 
 PHIL MICKELSON: It was fun. It was fun to play with Tom and certainly fun to play with Stewart. Seeing that he had shot 59 here, I think it's a different course, but he shot 59 here, and to play with those two guys was a fun couple of days. Neither of us had the score we wanted to, but I thought we all hit some pretty decent shots.

 Q. Next couple of weeks will be busy?
 PHIL MICKELSON: I'll head home for a few days and get ready to go to Akron and the PGA. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT