THE BARCLAYS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 7, 2011
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Your thoughts?
 PHIL MICKELSON: The golf course is just terrific, and I was playing well there for a while. I had a few under par after not the greatest start and had it right there and then I made a double-bogey on 14, and that kind of derailed the round. I let birdies slide on 16 and 18. 
 But you know, it was a great day for scoring. There were scores out there. Guys had opportunities. I thought the course played terrific. I just didn't get the score done. 
 But I played reasonably well. I wasn't disappointed with the way I played. I was disappointed with the way I scored. 
 I putted okay. I didn't think I putted poorly but I made some good 3-putts, too. It wasn't that bad, but I just through a couple of shots away there around the green. My short game was not very good. I took four shots on that one hole. And missed up-and-down opportunities on a few others, so I'm surprised because usually I was expecting that that was going to be my strength and I was going to salvage some shots and I really let a lot go today.

 Q. Is your enthusiasm for this particular kind of golf still high after a frustrating day like that?
 PHIL MICKELSON: Well, I can't let that affect the way I view the course or the game. I thought this course played perfectly. It's just a wonderful test of golf. And when you play well, you know, there's a lot of scores out there, a lot of low scores out there and I just didn't do it. 
 Although I played well, I didn't score well. I've got to get the ball in the hole better tomorrow.

 Q. Justifies the fact that you've got the four days here --
 PHIL MICKELSON: It's great that I'm here and challenging myself on those shots. Sometimes I'm still debating whether I want to go through the air and some shots on the ground. It's really a strategic golf course that makes you think and choose the right shot. 

 Q. Is the nature of it, a little bit softened by the conditions we had, particularly yesterday, does that change your approach for next week?
 PHIL MICKELSON: No, it's still pretty firm. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT