AT&T PEBBLE BEACH PRO-AM
February 8, 2019
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Obviously it was a little tough finish but the birdie there at 9 had to be huge for you.
PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, it's nice.  I hate not finishing the round off like that and making three bogeys after having a pretty good round going in.  And it just, but I guess to make one on the last, that was a long, tough hard hole that's usually a driver, eight or 9-iron, and I had to whistle a 4-iron in after a good drive.  It was just a little bit more difficult conditions.  I'm also lucky to get done now and get the round over with and have, guys unfortunately are still out there playing in some tough stuff.
Q. What was the difference between yesterday and today?
PHIL MICKELSON: I didn't drive it like I did yesterday.  I didn't miss a fairway yesterday.  Here you've got to be in the fairway and I was fractionally off on a couple of the holes, both par-5s on the front and that ended up costing me probably three shots if I would have hit those fairways.  And it's a lot more critical out here.
Q. You've won this event four times.  What do you think is the reason you do so well here?
PHIL MICKELSON: I think that I grew up in California and I'm used the poa annua greens.  I think that's a big adjustment for a lot of guys, seeing how the ball rolls on that particular grass and adjusting to the soft conditions, getting the ball close, trying to get the spin off the ball, that's a challenge.  But growing up here you get kind of used to it and figure it out.
Q. What were you trying to hit on 7?
PHIL MICKELSON: 4-iron.
Q. It just turned?
PHIL MICKELSON: You've got water left, so I just had to be right and was just trying to chase it up the right side.  There was a tree there.  I had to hug it pretty close to that tree and unfortunately I pulled it into it.  But anyway.
Q. You talked about improving your putting and your speed and you're so analytical about how you approach things.  I was just curious when it comes to just aging, fending off time, is there anything specifically you do?
PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, there's a ton of things.  I don't even know where to start.  But there's a lot of things that you can do to help your body heal, recover, and get strengthened.  But I wouldn't even know where to start.  But there's been a lot of stuff, yes.
Q. How much more confident are you now as opposed to the end of last season?
PHIL MICKELSON: So at the end of last year, even though I played poorly, I had something happen where it seemed like overnight, it had really been a year in the works, where my driver speed, it shot up five, six miles an hour, which rarely ever happens to anybody, yet alone somebody in their late 40s.  So that led me to be pretty optimistic heading into this year.  So I think that's going to lead to some good things.  If you're going to be crooked off the tee, you sure as heck better be long and that's kind of the way I'm trying to approach it.
Q. How does the weather change any of your outlook?
PHIL MICKELSON: There's a chance we may miss some of it.  You just don't know how it's going to play or what the weather's going to be and you end up trying to shoot as low a round as you can because everybody else is facing the same conditions.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT