THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 13, 2011
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Yesterday you said you left a lot out there. Did you do feel the same today?   
 PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, I mean, I had a really good front nine there to shoot 31 and just let it go, just let the round go. I don't really know what to say. I stopped hitting fairways and really just kind of lost the momentum.  
  
  Q. Do you normally hit driver at 6?   
 PHIL MICKELSON: No.  
  
  Q. What was the thought process there?   
 PHIL MICKELSON: The pin was in the middle. It was slightly into the wind, and I've been working on this little low cut driver, and I just thought it fit perfectly.  
  
  Q. Were you thinking a number walking off? I guess it was at 18 when you were making the turn?   
 PHIL MICKELSON: I thought I could go shoot a few under on the front and really have it a good day. And I just really let a good round go, it's disappointing.  
  
  Q. Phil, knowing that you posted a good nine and you were able to go low early, are you going to remember that part of your day or the back?   
 PHIL MICKELSON: Well, yeah, it would most likely be the back. I really had a good round going, and I just didn't finish it off.  
  
  Q. You can't play this course unless you're in the fairway, can you? It's just not a reasonable ask?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: No, you really can't. And I hit a lot of fairways on the front nine and was able to make birdies, and then on the back I'm having trouble just hitting the green.   
 If I miss a green out of the rough, it's very challenging. When you hit fairways and you hit greens, you can score low here. And the front nine I did that, and when you start missing it, you get penalized. So it seems like it's a pretty fair test based on risk/reward. If you play well, you score well, and if you don't, you don't.  
  
  Q. How difficult was that stance you had in the bunker at 7, just trying to find your footing and all?   
 PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, I had a few of those. When you get those severe mounds and rough to stop the ball, you'll have some of that. But like I said, you don't have those problems on the fairway. But where I hit it today, I seemed to find a few of those.  
  
  Q. Were the greens getting faster? Do you feel like where you're at now is not too far back? Can you make up a lot?   
 PHIL MICKELSON: You always come out on Saturday with hopes of going low and moving up the leaderboard. But I'm still going to have to get past this, because this was a day I should be right up there on top within striking distance, and now I've got to go out and shoot something low 60's tomorrow to get back into it.  
  
  Q. Are you going to the range now?   
 PHIL MICKELSON: No, I'm a little tired. It's warm out here, so I'll probably rest up and maybe come out tomorrow and practice.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT