WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 8, 2011
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Did you identify which divot it was out there?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: No, and they couldn't tell you which one it was, either. Nobody out there could. They said they thought it was this one, but when we looked at what they saw they pointed out, I said it didn't look like that one to me.  
  
  Q. When did they point it out?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: When we got done.  
  
  Q. So before you had signed but after you were done?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: It wouldn't have mattered.  
  
  Q. Was it a marshal?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: I believe so, yeah.   
  
  Q. So it defaults basically to the player's honor, right? I don't think I did it so therefore it can't be conclusively proven otherwise and none of you other three guys there saw it?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, exactly, and that was -- again, I remember watching him move the ball back, and he checked it. I'm fine with it.   
 You know, it's things like this that as a player you don't ever want any calls under question because you value your integrity more than anything, and Padraig has more integrity than anybody out here. You know, the fact that one person would say something, I don't ever want that to come into question because he's constantly checking to make sure he's playing by all the rules. Anyway...   
  
  Q. Just talk about the way you hit the ball great today.   
 PHIL MICKELSON: I played well, and I had a fun time. I enjoyed this golf course and had a few birdies today and made a few bogeys. I had a good day.   
  
  Q. What was with your putting today?   
 PHIL MICKELSON: What do you mean?   
  
  Q. In terms of putting on the greens.   
 PHIL MICKELSON: I putted okay. I made some good ones. I missed a couple, I made some good ones, and they're rolling very good. They're certainly challenging. There's a lot of contour, but they're always in great shape. This golf course is always in wonderful condition.   
  
  Q. The day started out with you and Padraig making birdies everywhere and having a blast and ended up unfortunately with bogeys at the last hole. Your first tournament back from Augusta, I saw plenty of moments where you played particularly well.   
 PHIL MICKELSON: Yes, I definitely agree with that, and it was good for me to have a week where I was able to hit a lot of good shots but also find some areas that I've got to improve heading into next week's PLAYERS Championship, heading into the majors. So I've got some work to do. Fortunately I've got Butch here to straighten some things out. But I made some good swings this week, I made some mistakes, and I'll be working on it the next few days.  
  
  Q. How important was it be able to evaluate your performance this week heading into next week?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: Well, it's important. I need to get in a competitive frame of mind. Playing this week got me sharp. I was hopefully sharp already. I was trying to win the thing. But I hit a number of drives in the water this week that I've got to improve on because there's a lot of water next week.  
  
  Q. And lastly, the incident with Padraig, there was nothing that you could see or saw, or Bones for that matter, that would lead to any kind of a conclusive result?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: No, and more than that, on the par-3s, I remember him doing it there, he'll put the tee down, look, make sure that it's not in front, and that time he moved it back and checked. He's constantly checking, and I just think that that's not going to be an issue. I'm pretty comfortable with the fact that his ball was behind the marker. Padraig is one of the most honorable guys we have on TOUR.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT