MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 8, 2011
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q. 2-under for the tournament right now. When you walked off a day ago I asked you how you felt. You said, just okay, because you needed to make up ground on the field today. What's the feeling now? 
 PHIL MICKELSON: I left too many shots out there. You know, there were six chances, up-and-downs that I normally would get up-and-down, I left out there, a couple birdie putts. But that's all in the past, and we've got the weekend to look forward to. Unfortunately I'm not in that bad a spot where if I can go out and shoot a good round I can get right back in it. It's kind of like last week is where I'm hoping to pull off, where I'm in a position if I can go make a move on Saturday and get right back in it.

 Q. I know it's the nature of golf that momentum can be elusive, but 65-63 on a weekend like that. What's been the difference here these first couple days for you?
 PHIL MICKELSON: I haven't made any putts. I've caught a lot of lips. My speed has been just a fraction off. Just too firm or in a lot of cases just too soft on these greens. I've been a little bit defensive, and then yesterday my short game was really short; today it wasn't. Today I left a lot of shots out there that were not hard up-and-downs. You know, they were very doable. I missed a few four- or five-footers there, but I expect to get those up-and-down. I didn't; I left a lot out there today. I can't afford this weekend to leave those shots out there.

 Q. You've certainly proven you're more than capable of making charges on a weekend. Given that, how do you assess your position heading into Saturday? 
 PHIL MICKELSON: Well, these next two days are my favorite two days of the year, the weekend of the Masters. There's nothing better than playing the weekend here at Augusta, and to be a couple under par in a position where a good round in the mid 60s, you can make up a lot of ground out here. I was able to do it last year on Saturday, and I'm going to have to make a good run tomorrow, too. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT