SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 1, 2011
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Little special treat, played a round in front of a president today, No. 41, George H.W. Bush. How much of a distraction, if at all, is that?
 PHIL MICKELSON: It's great to have him out. We all look forward to having a chance to spend a minute with him. He lives here in Houston and spends his summers up in Maine. He's done a lot for this country. All very honored to be with him.

 Q. Now, to your game, you put a new drive in the bag today. How did that go?
 PHIL MICKELSON: It went great. One of the reasons why I love being with Callaway is that ability to duplicate a club to perfection. I can't tell the difference. So this one will withstand anything. There won't be a problem. But on some of these drivers that we've tried, you know, we have to machine them, and so sometimes titanium isn't quite as strong. Now it won't be an issue. It's been terrific. To me that's one of the great things that I love about being with Callaway is that they're able to create such an identical club that I can't tell the difference.

 Q. Amazingly consistent round on this golf course.
 PHIL MICKELSON: It was an interesting day. I watched A.K. take it up. Anthony Kim had a tremendous round. It's out there. If you play well, you can really take it low. Unfortunately, I got off to a rough start with two 3-putts on the first few holes. I had to fight hard to get it back to under par, but played a couple under on the front. And I'm in position now where if I can shoot -- again you're talking mid 60s, I've got to go low here to get in contention.

 Q. Different driver in the bag today?
 PHIL MICKELSON: It is, but it's the same. Same copy. Great thing about with Callaway, their technology is so strong that they're able to duplicate a club and I can't tell the difference. So, I can't tell any difference between these two clubs. And this one is made from a casting as opposed to machine face, which makes the titanium a lot stronger. We were trying some things. Found one I really like. Now we've made a casting of it. I won't have a problem anymore. 

 Q. Saw you showing off for 41, President Bush, make a birdie for him on the 8th.
 PHIL MICKELSON: I hit one over there. I'm glad it didn't catch him. I just wanted to go say hello and then made a nice up and down. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT