ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 24, 2011
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. What's the most difficult aspect of the game in conditions like this?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: Well, there's two things, driving in a severe crosswind is tough, especially a slice wind and second thing is putting, especially with the greens on this pace because the wind will affect it.  
  
  Q. Here at Bay Hill, you have a lot of crowds and you're out early, and so you think it's going to be a nice draw but it gets more difficult as the day goes on, how good is the 70 this morning?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: I'll certainly take it. I played well and putted well this morning, I didn't get the ball in the hole. I didn't probably hit it the best, I hit a few squirrelly ones, but I was able to salvage par with my short game and it was a good opening round, I'll certainly take it.   
  
  Q. I didn't know that you actually could dunk out there with March Madness. Tell me about the birdie on 9.   
 PHIL MICKELSON: Well, I figure every putt is a straight putt if you hit it hard enough. That one hit straight in the middle. Everything else would have gone six, seven feet by.  
  
  Q. What were the greens like for you?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: We played early so they were rolling very true. But when you would get a crosswind on a putt, that would be difficult because it would affect it.  
  
  Q. Part of your game you're happiest with going into tomorrow?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: I had a great putting day. I really rolled the ball well today and made a lot of good putts and made a lot of the 4-, 5-, 6-footers that you need to make to shoot low scores.  
  
  Q. Talk about scoring a little bit; was it mission accomplished?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, using short game to score, and missing it in the proper spots, not having any penalty strokes on a golf course that has, you know, numerous shots with water. All of those little elements kind of helped me get the ball in the hole and shoot a number without hitting perfect shots.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT