AT&T PEBBLE BEACH NATIONAL PRO-AM
February 13, 2011
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. How many edges did you burn today? 
 PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, it was really a fun day. It was a beautiful day. We had great weather there. Was an opportunity out there to try to catch the lead and I put myself in position where I had some opportunities. 
 It was a fun day. I didn't quite get them to fall but I hit a lot of good putts and I had chances and they just didn't quite go.

 Q. I watched you watch the scoreboard at 11 when you made birdies, did you think you were in it now? 
 PHIL MICKELSON: I did. I was just thinking if I could get through 12, which 12 is one of the hardest holes on this course for me, if I could get through 12 with a par which I was fortunate to do making a good putt, I felt like I could make three or four birdies coming in and have a chance. I just was not able to get some of the putts to go in.

 Q. What did you learn this week, anything?
 PHIL MICKELSON: I don't know what I learned in particular. I thought that I enjoyed the weak and it was great for the tournament to have such wonderful weather all four days. 
 I had never seen this golf course play like this in this tournament. I had never seen the greens this firm, fairways firm or the greens this fast, other than a U.S. Open. It was a very challenging test even though there was some scores under par. And the greens were in as good of shape as I've ever seen them. 

 Q. 1-under par for Phil Mickelson today, a 71, a lot of lipouts on Valentine's weekend. If you could have kissed the hole, you might have won this tournament for the fourth time? 
 PHIL MICKELSON: We had a beautiful day here to play some golf. We had a beautiful day and opportunities for guys who were a little bit back to make up some ground. You saw that with Hunter's exceptional play today, and I was trying to keep pace with him for a little while. I just did not quite get them to go in. I hit some good putts and thought I played pretty good but didn't quite get the score out of it.

 Q. Is that disheartening when it's happening? 
 PHIL MICKELSON: Well, see, it feels a little bit different. It's one thing to miss putts, but it's another when they have a chance or when they are catching lips, and you feel like it's so close to just turning. 
 And so I feel like, I'm fortunate because I have a couple of weeks, I'm going to keep playing here in L.A. and the Match Play and I think it's close to really turning.

 Q. 14, middle of the fairway and something we saw a lot in the U.S. Open. What happened from your vantage point?
 PHIL MICKELSON: I didn't have a great lie in the fairway. It was sitting downgrain, which meant I was not going to be able to spin it. There's no Plan B on that hole. There's no other option to play are for par, so you have to take on that shot. I hit that ball as high as I could with a 64-degree wedge and landed it one foot on the green. I don't know how else I could have played that shot and it just bounded over the green. 
 It's a very difficult up-and-down, but I didn't have any other options. The bunker was not good to that pin and the right was not good and long was tough. It was just an unfortunate break.

 Q. How would you assess where you are now, you came close in San Diego, played well in Phoenix at points and here; where do you feel you are? 
 PHIL MICKELSON: I feel like I'm right on the cusp of playing some great golf because I feel like I'm driving the ball very well, better than I ever have probably. I feel like my iron play is back and my distance control has been sharp. And I feel like I'm rolling the ball very well. It's on my line. 
 It's just not quite going in or maybe I hit just a little too much speed or not quite enough break or whatever it is. Feels like it's so close, it feels really good and I'm walking away, even though I didn't get out of today's round what I wanted, with a lot of confidence, and looking forward to next week's event. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT