WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 3, 2011
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. How long did it take you to get warm this morning once you guys teed off?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: It wasn't too bad. I expected the golf course to be frozen and balls to be bouncing on the greens quite a ways. It played terrific. The greens were receptive, and I thought the course and the setup was in great shape, and the weather turned out to be a really nice day.  
  
  Q. You and Bubba last week at Torrey Pines, now you're together this week. How do you feel about the PGA TOUR putting you guys together on Thursdays and Fridays?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: I really like what they're doing. I thought they had some fun pairings. Last week I thought putting Tiger and Rocco Mediate together was really a cool thing, and to put Bubba and I together again this week was fun. I really like what they're doing. Hopefully it will drive a little bit more interest, get some people to maybe come out and watch certain pairings on Thursday and Friday and maybe even watch on TV.  
  
  Q. How confident are you right now this early in the season?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: I'm confident because I know or I can really feel that I'm playing well. Today, I mean, even today I just didn't score anywhere near as low as I felt I should based on how I'm playing. And I'm looking forward to getting back out here the next couple days. Although I probably won't play tomorrow, I should be able to get a lot of golf in on Saturday. I'm excited. I'm excited because I can feel it really coming around.   
  
  Q. First swing of the day may have been the worst one, and you almost made par anyway. Talk about that start.   
 PHIL MICKELSON: Well, it happens. Sometimes you get -- I didn't make a great swing and then unfortunately hit somebody and kind of rolled under the fence out of bounds. It happens. I was actually trying to be right so I had an angle to that pin. Historically I lose it left and then I've got to go over the bunker, and I've struggled on that hole when I go left. So I was trying to play to the right side and I overdid it.   
 Started out with a bogey and ended with a bogey, but I thought I played pretty well today, made a lot of birdies in between and had opportunities that I didn't capitalize on. Probably didn't score as low as I should have, but I thought I played well.  
  
  Q. Talk about the marquee pairing getting Bubba and Bill Haas back at it again.   
 PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, it's fun. I really like playing with those guys. Bill sure played a heck of a round today, played very solid. He's been playing like that the last month here, in the playoff at the Hope, very close last week and he's right up there again this week. He's playing some great golf.  
  
  Q. We've gotten a lot of Super Bowl predictions. Give me a pick and a score.   
 PHIL MICKELSON: I'm going to wait two more days. I have an inkling on who -- I think it's going to be a great game. We've got two great teams and they're both playing very well, so it's going to be a fun Super Bowl.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about your round?   
 PHIL MICKELSON: It was an interesting day. I played very well. I started with a bogey and finished with a bogey, but in between there I hit a lot of good shots and played well. Didn't score as low as I probably should have or would have liked, but I didn't hurt myself at all and I'm in good shape after one day. I feel like I'm playing well. I'm really excited for the weekend. We're going to have some great weather on Saturday and Sunday, and I'm excited to get out on this golf course.  
  
  Q. How tough was it early on out there?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: It really wasn't as difficult as I was expecting. I would have thought with the cold conditions the greens would have been a little frozen and a little firm, and really they weren't. They were in great shape, very receptive. I thought the course played very well, and this is probably the best setup I've seen in over a decade as far as the greens, the rough, the fairways, the fairway widths. It's really just a great setup this week.  
  
  Q. Bill Haas said he couldn't believe you were playing with no top on, just your shirt-sleeved shirt.   
 PHIL MICKELSON: Well, when the sun came out I thought it was really nice. I started to get a little bit warm, and it felt great out there. For as cold as it's been, we really had a great day to play.  
  
  Q. Was it difficult to get warmed up?   
 PHIL MICKELSON: It was a little cold in the morning warming up, but as the day wore on, it became very nice.  
  
  Q. How have the health issues in your family kind of stabilized now?   
 PHIL MICKELSON: Certainly we're in a much better place, and I think it probably shows with my body language as well as how I'm playing.  
  
  Q. How close was the wedge on 10?   
 PHIL MICKELSON: It was just a few inches. It stayed just a few inches.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT