FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
January 28, 2011
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. It could have been something special there in the middle where you had a couple of short eagle putts that you missed, but the birdies on 8 and 9 has to make you feel good about the day.   
 PHIL MICKELSON: It's a good way to finish the round to make those two birdies and turn the round that wasn't going the way I wanted into an okay round. It was very acceptable.   
 I had a bunch of opportunities where putts looked like they might go in and just caught the lip or just slid out. But to make those last two felt good, and I'm looking forward to the weekend.  
  
  Q. That round you shot yesterday on the South one of the best you've had in a long time. You've got to be feeling good going into the weekend on the South for the first time in a long time in your career?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: I am looking forward to it. I feel like I have a decent idea of how I want to play the golf course, also I have a good idea of what the breaks are going to do on the greens because I've been here now so many years and have studied them. I'm confident heading into the weekend.  
  
  Q. Having Amy on the course right after the round, how did that feel?   
 PHIL MICKELSON: It's been a lot of fun having Amy out here this week. She just looks terrific. After a year and a half we're in such a better place, and it's been a lot of fun having her out here.  
  
  Q. Does that have anything to do with you playing well, you think?   
 PHIL MICKELSON: I don't know. But it sure is fun to see her out here smiling and having fun. It's just we're in a much better place.  
  
  Q. I'm sure you felt like you left shots out there, but overall, are you happy with your 69 today?   
 PHIL MICKELSON: It was okay. I thought I played well, but had to get the ball in the hole. Maybe a couple putts that might have gone in just didn't quite. But then I birdied the last two, so it's a nice way to end the round.  
  
  Q. How do you view your position going into the weekend?   
 PHIL MICKELSON: It's a good spot. But now you have a better idea of how you stand. With guys playing different golf courses, you don't know exactly where you are in the field the first two days. But I should be in good position heading into the weekend.  
  
  Q. Do you find yourself being more comfortable on the South course?   
 PHIL MICKELSON: I think that the North course is probably a great example how longer is not always better. It's always been a fun golf course to play, and as you get longer and longer, it's no longer a fun course. I think it's just a good example that longer isn't always better. I think that I'm looking forward to playing the South the next few rounds.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT