BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 10, 2010
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Even par is not a bad day on this golf course in tough conditions, but five birdies and then a couple hiccups, are you a little disappointed or are you okay?
 PHIL MICKELSON: I hit more good shots today than I've hit in any one round, I think, all year, so I played very well today. I unfortunately made a couple of bad swings that cost me four penalty strokes, but I played very well today. 

 Q. Talk about the difference between yesterday and today. 
 PHIL MICKELSON: I haven't noticed a change between the two. It's just very tough out there.

 Q. Tell me about your game, the swing, what you've been working on. 
 PHIL MICKELSON: I've been hitting -- just working on a few things, but I hit a lot of good iron shots, I putted well. I made some good putts today. My game feels pretty good. But here you don't have an opportunity to recover, so if you miss some shots, it's a very stiff penalty. Either you can't get up-and-down or penalty strokes, although I hit pretty bad shots to cause those four penalty strokes.

 Q. Well, we've been hearing from a lot of the guys that they're not crazy about the changes that were made on this golf course. How do you feel about it?
 PHIL MICKELSON: Well, that's kind of lobbing one up there. There's been some interesting things being said in the locker room, and I think that the owner here, Joe Jemsek, is such a great guy, and he's done so much for golf, and I think we were all hoping that this would really turn out well and that we could bring a U.S. Open here. I just feel bad for him. 

 Q. Going into the weekend now, the final two rounds, what are you hoping for? 
 PHIL MICKELSON: That's a good question. I'm not really sure. I mean, I played really good golf the first two days, and I'm over par. I just don't think I'm good enough to play this course. (Laughter.)

 Q. What were your best shots of the day? 
 PHIL MICKELSON: Well, my best shots were iron shots throughout the front nine. I hit a lot of good iron shots to 15, 20 feet and gave myself a lot of chances for birdie. 

 Q. Finally where you had to drop out of bounds, is that one of your highest amounts in a long time?
 PHIL MICKELSON: No, not one of my highest, but it happens out here. Hazards are brought in on holes like 3 and 4 right off the edge of the fairway, and there's some tough spots, although the drive on 18 was terrible where I snap-hooked it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT