DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 5, 2010
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Last week at the Barclays you missed the cut, told Butch Harmon to come out for a little weekend work. What was the most important thing you two worked out?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, I don't know how to answer that but just make sure that things are on track. I had spent the day before at the test center making sure my driver and equipment was dialed in. I wanted to make sure my golf game was dialed in and just try to turn it around.   
 I had a poor week last week, and I wanted to finish strong this year, and I just wasn't playing the way I had hoped. So I feel like it was getting back on track, but the first day I didn't shoot the number that I felt I needed to, and these last couple of days have been better, and tomorrow should be a fun day, too.  
  
  Q. You were pretty revved up walking off that 15th green. Talk about your third shot there.   
 PHIL MICKELSON: That pin last year, the same thing happened, the same exact pin, I flew it up against the pin, it came all the way back down to the same spot. In the fairway I was telling Bones, I'm going to try to just miss the pin, jokingly obviously, and hit the darn thing again, and went to the exact same spot again.   
 And as I was standing over the chip, I kind of turned to him and said, screw it, I'm going to make this. Stuff happens, I'm going to knock this one in, and I'll be darned if that ball didn't go in. So that was a fun little moment because that stuff happens. You get bad breaks, and sometimes you have to look at it a little bit differently, and I was able to just kind of change my mindset from, you know, that's too bad and what a bad break to let's knock this one in, then it won't matter.   
  
  Q. You had a 67 today, very good round.   
 PHIL MICKELSON: Thank you. It was a fun day, and it was more difficult early on with the wind blowing. It was much more difficult the first nine or ten holes. But as the evening came, the wind died down and the finish was a little bit easier.  
  
  Q. You've been talking a lot about your driving over the last three days, and I know you worked with Butch last week and you also worked a little bit (indiscernible.)  
 PHIL MICKELSON: Well, it was a fun round. I shot 4-under par and moved a little bit better position heading into tomorrow's round.  
  
  Q. And you had some excitement on 15.   
 PHIL MICKELSON: Yes, I had a good little moment on 15 after hitting the pin with my second shot, and it was actually the second year in a row that that happened. The ball rolled right back in the exact same spot, it was the same pin placement. I was joking in the fairway before I even hit the shot, you know, I'm going to try to just miss the pin, and I can't believe it hit it again and ended up in the same spot. I was able to turn it around this year, and as I was standing over it kind of refocusing and saying, I'm going to knock this one in, and I'll be darned if that thing didn't go in. That was really a fun little moment.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 PHIL MICKELSON: Well, it happens. We've all out here won tournaments after missing the cut. It happens. You can get it turned around in a matter of moments if we just get the right kind of key. We've all had days where we've hit it great and the next day we lose it, vice versa, so went home and had a few extra days to get prepared. I thought I was really ready and sharp, and then Thursday's round came and I just kind of plodded along and didn't really get it going. But the last two days have been better, and I'm looking forward to a fun day tomorrow.  
  
  Q. Was it on Sunday last year, as well?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: I don't know what day, but it was the same pin placement.   
  
  Q. You didn't chip that one in I take it last year?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: No, I wasn't too thrilled last year.   
  
  Q. What would it mean to you to be No. 1 ranked in the world?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: Well, it would be cool for anybody. That's what we're all ultimately striving for. But before that can happen, I've got to get my game back, and it feels like it's starting to come back.  
  
  Q. Do you know the scenarios? They change every week. Like a top four and this and that.   
 PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, I haven't paid attention this week. After missing the cut that was the last thing on my mind, so I haven't paid attention to what needs to happen. But I'm looking forward to getting in the hunt tomorrow and seeing if I can get off to a good start and make some birdies and move up that leaderboard.  
  
  Q. Nice to do something like that with a win I guess, pretty good scenario, right?   
 PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, play like this, play like you deserve it. That's the goal.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT