DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 4, 2010
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Congratulations, great round of golf today.   
 PHIL MICKELSON: Thank you. It's fun to shoot a low score and kind of get back in it for the weekend.  
  
  Q. Second shot at 18, I had you just outside of 200 yards, and I saw some deliberation going on there, you and Bones. Who ended up being right?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: Well, it wasn't a deliberation, we were just saying if I were in the fairway it was just a nice 7-iron, and he said if you think you can get enough on it, you can hit 7, otherwise you might need to add a little more. He just said it was depending on how I feel. I wasn't sure I'd be able to get a lot on it because my right foot wasn't strong enough to really swing the club fast, so I took a 6 and hit it solid and just went over the green. Right where you want to be, though, on that hole because you're chipping right back up into the pin, into the slope.  
  
  Q. 23 putts compared to 29 yesterday. That was a real positive move, too.   
 PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, and even though I hit a lot of putts yesterday, I hit a lot that were rolling good, so I felt pretty good heading into today, like it was going to be a good day with the putter, and it was. I made three putts longer than 30 feet, which is fun. Seeing those go in, those are just bonus shots. So it was good. It was a fun day.   
  
  Q. Best round you've played in quite some time?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: It is, yeah. I drove the ball very well and drove it well yesterday, too, and putted well. Today a couple long ones went in, which are bonuses. But hit the ball well today, and it was a fun day. It was fun to shoot a low score. The wind was picking up, so it wasn't as easy as yesterday to get back in it, so it feels good.  
  
  Q. What was the biggest difference between your play today and yesterday?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: Well, I only shot 2-under yesterday, but it was a lot easier because it was much more calm and there wasn't any wind. Today because the course is soft; you can make a lot of birdies, but it's a little tougher to pull the right club.  
  
  Q. You've won here before. Is the golf course at all reminiscent of the time you won here and is your game at all reminiscent of the time you won here?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: You know, I felt pretty good heading into the week because I went home and got some things dialed in and felt really good. Butch flew down and we worked at the test center at Callaway to get some things dialed in. I feel really good. I feel confident. But again, you've got to go shoot the numbers. It doesn't matter how you feel or how you're striking it, the most important thing is getting the ball in the hole, and today I was able to do that.  
  
  Q. Can you talk about your round? Lots of birdies out there.   
 PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, it was a fun day today. I ended up playing well. I didn't get off to too great a start, just a bunch of pars, but made a couple long putts there on 15 and 16, and they were pretty long, I mean, 30, 35 feet, kind of bonus shots. I was able to make some more at the turn and finish with one more there on 8. So it was a fun day to see some putts go in and drive the ball in play.   
  
  Q. Was the weather a factor today, the wind?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: Well, I only shot 2-under yesterday and 6-under today, but it was a lot easier yesterday without the wind. But because the course is soft and because the ball is stopping on the greens, you can get the ball close and make birdies. It's just a little bit harder to pull the right club because of the swirling wind.  
  
  Q. How were you feeling coming into this particular tournament?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: Well, I didn't play well last week obviously, but I went back to San Diego and I saw Butch, I went to the test center, I got my game, I thought, dialed in, and so I was pretty excited about this week. But again, you don't know until you get out here, and you've got to shoot the numbers. Yesterday I didn't quite post the number I wanted to, but today I was able to do that.  
  
  Q. What did you try to dial in last week?   
 PHIL MICKELSON: I tried to get the driver dialed in. I've been going to a little bit more loft, just trying to get the ball in play more. It feels really good.   
  
  Q. You've had some success here. Anything about this particular tournament that makes you --  
 PHIL MICKELSON: This is one of my favorite courses we play on TOUR. I think it's one of the best courses we play on TOUR. It's got a lot of character and definition, but more than that it's got a great mixture of holes, from long par-5s to reachable par-5s to drivable par-4s to really long par-4s, the fescue grass, the rough. It's just a wonderful way to play the game where you have such a great mixture of every club in your bag. You have birdie opportunities, you have tough pars as opposed to some courses nowadays where it's just hard, hard, hard. Hard is hard, but it's not great, it's not fun. But this golf course is a great golf course, and it's a fun golf course to play.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT