WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 8, 2010
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Talk about your day.   
 PHIL MICKELSON: It was a rough day if you couldn't tell. It was a rough day. As I was telling Peter, I felt pretty good today. I felt good on the range, I hit some good shots. I felt like I was sharp and ready to go attack the golf course and make some birdies. And it just didn't happen.   
 I don't know what to say. I mean, then the round obviously got away. But it didn't feel like it was far off. But it turned out to be.   
  
  Q. What was it about this course that gave you and Tiger, two of the best, so much trouble?   
 PHIL MICKELSON: Well, it's an awesome golf course. It's a terrific course because if you play well and you hit good shots, it rewards you with birdie opportunities. But if you miss some shots, the rough and the trees and the challenging greens will lead to bogeys.   
 The way I drove it, I was fighting for pars on a lot of the holes.   
  
  Q. This was the eighth straight week you've had this No. 1 thing sort of looming out there in the mist. Are you tired of talking about it, sort of want to get over the hump and get that done with? Is it frustrating that you've had sort of a flat summer other than Pebble?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, if I keep finishing ahead of them every week eventually it'll happen, but the problem is there's guys behind me that will pass me because I'm not playing well enough right now. I've got some work to do to get my own game sharp.   
 Fortunately I have some more tournaments here where I'm able to try to get in a groove and play more consecutive weeks. But it's important with this last major coming up next week that I try to get this thing turned around here in the next three days.  
  
  Q. Considering the PGA is next week, what's more indicative of your current play? Is it Thursday-Friday or is it your play today?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: It's hard to say. I mean, you're only as good as your last performance. This wasn't very good. It didn't -- although it looked way off, it didn't feel like it was that far off. I felt like there were still some decent shots that I hit, but the round just got away from me there.  
  
  Q. Talk about playing two tournaments and then taking some time off, playing two tournaments. Can you take some confidence in the fact that you played pretty well here and you've got some tournaments coming up that you can get back into a rhythm?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: Yes, the thing though is, I wanted to have a good weekend and get a little bit of momentum going into the PGA, and I don't think that that happens. So I'll have to kind of do what I did at Augusta, with Houston the week before, I played like this in Houston, and I'm going to have to try to get it turned around here in three days.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about what happened on No. 2 there and No. 9?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, No. 2 I actually hit a pretty good drive, and it was just in the left rough. It was on the edge of the cart path but I couldn't drop it in the fairway or in the first cut. I was going to have to drop it in the rough so I decided to play it and I hit a hybrid off there, and I thought it was going to carry those bunkers, no problem. Not only did it not carry onto the green, but it didn't even carry the first bunker. So I had a long bunker shot and ended up catching it a little too close and air mailed the green and made 6 on a hole that you need to make birdie. So that led to the bad start.  
 If that hybrid carries onto the green, I have a two-putt birdie and everything is fine.   
 And then I felt like maybe I was pressing for birdies from there and just couldn't quite get any and then started making some birdies.  
  
  Q. It looks like it might be Mahan at the end of the day, his second of the year. What do you know about him and what do you like about him?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, if Hunter wins, it's big for the reason that he needs to play his way on the Ryder Cup team, and he will have done that. So I think it's a big momentum boost for him and important that he be on the team because he's such a strong player.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT