WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 7, 2010
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Can you talk about that a little bit, the birdies and bogeys?   
 PHIL MICKELSON: I don't really want to relive it. I didn't play very well today and made some bogeys on the back nine that were costly. I'm going to have to play better tomorrow.   
 But I feel like my iron play has been good, so I'm happy -- I've been pleased with that. I'm not pleased with the way I'm driving the ball, and I'm not pleased with my performance around the greens because I let a few shots, three or four shots around the greens today slide, and I've got to get better there.   
 But I also have to get better off the tee, because off the tee I was playing for pars most of the day today, and I didn't give myself chances to really attack pins and be aggressive, try to make birdies very often. And so I'll have to -- goal number one will be to get the ball in play off the tee.  
  
  Q. Seemed like that second nine, whenever you needed a big shot you were always up against the lip someplace.   
 PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, I hit some poor shots on the back and made some bogeys. I also made some good pars just to stay where I was at. The good news is I'm only four back and that's in good striking distance. I also get to play well ahead of the leaders so if I can get off to a hot start I can put some pressure on the guys.   
  
  Q. What about the fact that if you do finish fourth, it looks like you could get the No. 1 ranking. How much is that in your thoughts?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: It's not right now. I'm trying to win the tournament. I'm only four back, and I fought hard today not really having much just to stay within striking distance. I found it difficult, I think the later groups found it tough today, with all the guys shooting 6, 7-, 8-under par in front of us for us to try to keep pace. We felt like we had to force the issue. If I can make some birdies tomorrow hopefully I can give those leaders the same feeling.  
  
  Q. What's it like being 4 back on a Sunday and a little bit further ahead as far as your mentality going into the 18th.   
 PHIL MICKELSON: I'm much more attacking mind frame. I'm going into tomorrow thinking I've got to be on the attack, that I've got to be firing at pins and make birdies to try and catch the lead, and I like that feeling because sometimes I can be like anybody a little bit protective with the lead, and today I saw everybody going low, and I kept trying to force the issue but I wasn't hitting the shots off the tee, and then I was fighting for pars all the time.   
 Tomorrow I've got to get the ball in play. My iron play has been good but off the tee hasn't. I've got to get the ball into play, attack some pins and just get a few putts to drop and I think I can put some pressure on the leaders.  
  
  Q. Considering you didn't play exactly how you wanted to today, are you happy, pleased, surprised to be just four back?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: No, I mean, I saw the scores and figured it was going to be about such.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT