THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY MORGAN STANLEY
June 3, 2010
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q. That's got to be one of your best rounds, especially here. 
 PHIL MICKELSON: It was a good start. I enjoyed the round. I felt like the course was in great shape and without much wind and soft conditions. There were a lot of birdies out there. But it was a good start. 

 Q. Yesterday at the skins game, shot a 30 on those nine holes. Was there a carryover today? 
 PHIL MICKELSON: That was a fun nine holes. The ball went in the hole quite often, and it was fun. 
 This is a whole different deal here, and it's fun to get off to a good start. 

 Q. I have to ask you this: 38 victories on the PGA Tour, four majors. You never won here. Is this a course you really want to win? 
 PHIL MICKELSON: It is. I told Jack yesterday it would really mean a lot to me to win his tournament. I don't know why. This golf course is wonderful. 
 I played here in the '86 Junior and fell in love with the place. I haven't been back in a number of years. It hasn't quite fit in the schedule. I'm excited to be here this week. The course is set up perfect. Hopefully, I'll be able to get in contention for Sunday. 

 Q. Great playing today. 
 PHIL MICKELSON: Thank you. 

 Q. The delay didn't hurt you at all? 
 PHIL MICKELSON: No. 

 Q. Not at all? 
 PHIL MICKELSON: No. 

 Q. How did you like it today? 
 PHIL MICKELSON: I enjoyed it. The course is in great shape. It's really set up well. It's challenging. The greens are quick. They're receptive today. Without much wind, a lot of birdies out there. I'm pleased to shoot -- we saw a lot of low scoring. I'm pleased to shoot 5 under and get off to a good start. 

 Q. Was it muddy out there? 
 PHIL MICKELSON: It wasn't too bad. I thought the course drained pretty well. We played the ball down, and it was fine. It didn't need to be played up. 

 Q. Does this course fit you pretty well? Were you able to be a little bit more aggressive because of how soft everything was? 
 PHIL MICKELSON: I think so. I think the soft greens allows you to attack a lot of the pins. It played a lot longer because the ball wasn't rolling. It was a very fun day and a lot of good scoring today. 

 Q. Happy with the start? 
 PHIL MICKELSON: I am. I'm pleased with getting off to a good start. 

 Q. Did you do as well today as you would like to? 
 PHIL MICKELSON: [CK] what did I do well today? I hit it pretty good, made a couple of putts. Gave myself some good opportunities. It's just a good day.

 Q. Phil, after the delay, you really seemed to pick things up. Did the course maybe play more to your strength after the rain? 
 PHIL MICKELSON: I think that it's a course where, if you're patient, you can make a lot of birdies. You can hit it a bunch of pins, and the greens are so good, that you can make the putt. 
 And so maybe I didn't get off to the quickest start this morning, but I was patient throughout the round and ultimately made my birdies where they fell. 

 Q. Did your ball get a lot of mud today? 
 PHIL MICKELSON: Yes, it did, but it wasn't too bad. 

 Q. (Indiscernible.)
PHIL MICKELSON: I said I think it would be really cool to win his tournament. It would mean a lot to me because it's a special event. 
 This golf course, it's an incredible course that I first played in 1986 for the U.S. Junior here. I really enjoyed coming here and playing. I don't know why I haven't been able to break through here, but I'm trying hard this week. 

 Q. How did you do in '86? 
 PHIL MICKELSON: I lost in the quarters in 19 holes. 

 Q. To whom? 
 PHIL MICKELSON: Carito Villaroman. 

 Q. That's hard, man. 

 Q. (Indiscernible.) 
 PHIL MICKELSON: It wasn't as far off as it may have looked. So it was just kind of getting dialled in, getting my touch back. 

 Q. Were you able to take some lessons in any way? Anything come from that? 
 PHIL MICKELSON: You could say that. I don't think I wanted to have the weekend off. I wanted to play well at Colonial. It gave me a chance -- you've got to take what you have and get a positive out of that. 
 It gave me a chance to work with Butch. Gave me a chance to work with Stockton. Hopefully, this tournament will give me a little momentum heading into the U.S. Open. 

 Q. Because you played so well down the back stretch, would you say the rain delay had something to do with it? 
 PHIL MICKELSON: I don't know if it really matters. Everybody else has to play it, but I was fortunate to make the birdies after it. 

 Q. In your perfect game last night, I don't know if you saw what happened with --
PHIL MICKELSON: I don't know what to say. We all make mistakes. It happens. I know that that feels terrible. We all make mistakes. 

 Q. Phil, a lot of pars at the 6 hole. At the 6 hole, were you in kind of your groove? 
 PHIL MICKELSON: I birdied the 5th hole and then kind of got it going because I felt like I could birdie 5 and 7, the two par 5s, which I did, and threw one in there on 6. That was a nice little bonus. 

 Q. Is that the first time indiscernible?
 PHIL MICKELSON: I didn't play the front this week, no. But it didn't change from the last time I was here. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT