THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 7, 2010
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You made nine pars in a row on the front nine? 
 PHIL MICKELSON: I did, a lot of pars today. Very boring round. I apologize to all the TV viewers. It was the boringest round to watch.

 Q. U.S. Open? 
 PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, surprisingly it was a lot more difficult than I was expecting. I saw so many birdies in the morning, I just thought it was going to be a lot easier than it was. 
 I didn't capitalize on the par-5s. If I played the par-5s well, I'm in the 60s or possibly lower. Had, 3, 4, 5-iron into the first three, and not only did I not birdie, I played them one over. So that just killed the round.

 Q. Was the course firming up? Was there any reason or were you just not taking advantage of it? 
 PHIL MICKELSON: It changed a lot, I guess. It certainly was different than when we played yesterday morning. We had great conditions yesterday morning. But wind picked up, greens weren't quite as smooth, and it was tough to make putts. They stopped holding. They weren't as receptive. 
 But there's no excuse. There were plenty of birdie opportunities out there, and I just didn't take advantage of them.

 Q. Just not hitting your longer irons that well right now? 
 PHIL MICKELSON: Honestly, I don't know what to say. I played mostly from the fairway today. Just had trouble getting the ball close. You know, I hit my best iron shot that I hit was on 15. It about knocked down a pin. It wasn't even on the green. I had a very tough up-and-down. 
 So when I did hit good shots, I was misjudging the wind or not hitting the right shot maybe. It was just a frustrating day. I don't know what to say. Didn't play great, didn't play bad, just didn't get it going. It was frustrating.

 Q. Is nine shots doable? 
 PHIL MICKELSON: I think that because the character of the course is changing so much from the morning to the afternoon, that the guys that are 2, 3, 4-under par are in the tournament. Because if they shoot 6, 7, 8-under par, they're going to move right up the leaderboard. And it's going to be very difficult for the leaders to pull away in the afternoon.

 Q. Were you paying attention to the cut line at all or were you just focusing on what you were doing? 
 PHIL MICKELSON: Not really. I knew I was close to it. But not really. I'm trying to get three or four birdies and try to get in contention, not just make it to the weekend. Unfortunately, I didn't get it going. But there's two more rounds.

 Q. Westwood's leading, and obviously you know he's been playing pretty well for a while. What can you say about what he's doing or maybe what you would have seen at the Masters that had him up there? 
 PHIL MICKELSON: He just played very solid golf. He drove it great, hit great iron shots, putted well. He did everything very well at Augusta. 
 On Sunday, he had a day kind of similar in that he played really well, but the ball just wasn't quite getting in the hole. Now it is. You know, he's right up on top of the leaderboard, and he's playing some great golf, and it's just not surprising.

 Q. When you're facing adversity in your home life, how do you get your mindset so that you can play great golf? 
 PHIL MICKELSON: That's a good question. I don't know. You do the best you can.

 Q. How have you done it? 
 PHIL MICKELSON: How have I done it? Well, my situation has gotten progressively better the more information we've gotten, so it's been a lot easier.

 Q. Do you see the course getting any tougher over the last two days, and if it doesn't, how much harder does that make it to make up ground? 
 PHIL MICKELSON: No, I think it will. I think it will. It was a lot more difficult today than it was yesterday, I thought. And I think it will get progressively hard.

 Q. Playing in the morning, can you take a little advantage of that? 
 PHIL MICKELSON: I think so. That is the goal. They call Saturday moving day. That's what guys at 2, 3, 4-under par are going to have to do. They're going to have to shoot something in the mid-60s. 
 And though it looks like it may not be enough, I think it will be. I think it will get it right back in the tournament. Because, again, in the afternoon it's playing much different, and it will be hard for the guys to pull away. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT