THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY MORGAN STANLEY
June 2, 2010
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   PHIL MICKELSON: It's been a fun day. To be able to play nine holes with Jack Nicklaus is a great feeling. All of the things he's done for the Tournament and for the game of golf, we're all beneficiaries. For me, having him as our captain on the Presidents Cup team for a number of years has been such special moments and times to be able to spend with him, and I love coming out and golfing with him.   
 I think it's cool, watching him on the last putt, grinding the way he has in the past, and made so many putts on the final hole. It's just fun watching him.   
  
  Q. New putting stance for you on the eagle?   
 PHIL MICKELSON: On the eagle, oh, yes. They were nice enough to give that to me without having to make it. So that was cool.   
  
  Q. You come in here this week inspired after not making the cut last week?   
 PHIL MICKELSON: I played poorly last week. I ended up having a great week with Butch Harmon, and Dave Stockton was able to get some work done.   
  
  Q. Phil, what brings you out? You're sometimes here, sometimes not. Did it just work for you? Do you like this place?   
 PHIL MICKELSON: I do like the golf course a lot. This year's been great. It works out perfect. It's right before the Open. I'm not going to play next week. This is my last opportunity to play before the Open.   
 I was telling Jack how much it would mean to me personally to be able to win his event, and I'm going to be trying my hardest this week.   
  
  Q. Talk about the course.   
 PHIL MICKELSON: The course is in great shape. The greens are just beautiful. They always are. This is one of the best conditioned golf courses we play all year.   
  
  Q. Phil, you come in here right behind Tiger. Anything can happen. Does the rankings, does it get into your head much?   
 PHIL MICKELSON: It would be cool. I don't want to discount it. Right now my goal is to play well here and get ready for the Open next week.   
  
  Q. Does this thing kind of with the field here, kind of looks like it could be a major.   
 PHIL MICKELSON: There's a strong field, yeah. Jack always seems to get the best players here, for a number of reasons. It's Jack's tournament, and the golf course here is great. People in Columbus support this tournament. It's fun for players to be able to come out here and play. It's a great tournament, great course, some of the best service and food in locker room. It's incredible.   
  
  Q. The Presidents Cup this year, Jack said he wouldn't want to be captain because he thinks people can't relate to him anymore. Do you agree with that?   
 PHIL MICKELSON: I don't. I think that the players love spending time with him. He and Barbara are two of the classiest people in the sport. I know that the years that we've had with him, at the Presidents Cup, '03, '05, '07, they've been very special times. The players have just cherished the opportunity to spend time with him.   
  
  Q. Phil, if you look at your results, especially going back to the latter part of last year, you've played your best golf with Tiger in the field. Is that just by coincidence?   
 PHIL MICKELSON: I don't know, but probably not.   
  
  Q. Does today bring you any kind of good feeling, or was this just kind of a practice, mess around a little bit?   
 PHIL MICKELSON: It was an opportunity to see the golf course, and it was a fun day. To spend time with Jack again is special. To see him grind on the last hole, that's just cool to watch.   
 I didn't get a chance to play the front nine. I thought there was going to be a storm in the morning. So I had a good practice session instead. I think I'm ready. So I'm looking forward to tomorrow's tee time.   
  
  Q. Speaking of opportunities, does this field, does this course give you opportunities to really work on your game before the U.S. Open? Do you kind of look at it that way?   
 PHIL MICKELSON: I think it does. I think the speed of the greens requires that. I think course management is critical here. I think the short game and the opportunity to hit shots into these greens, it's one of the best golf courses, best shot values that we play.   
 Because of that, it really couldn't be a better spot to get ready for a major championship like the U.S. Open.   
  
  Q. Phil, to follow up a little bit, competitors like to compete against the best, and obviously it's you and Tiger. I mean, talk about that rivalry, what it's kind of becoming right now.   
 PHIL MICKELSON: I'd rather not right now. Just trying to get ready for tomorrow.   
  
  Q. Have you practiced the putt on 15?   
 PHIL MICKELSON: I don't. I don't get opportunities very often to hit it. Fortunately, I didn't need to make it.   
  
  Q. You've won so many majors. Is this a hole in the resume to fill?   
 PHIL MICKELSON: Absolutely, it is. I've been able to win some important events, but this one is one of the best tour events we have. It's Jack's tournament. I would love to receive the trophy from him. I haven't been able to do it lately. I feel like my game is sharp, and I love the golf course. I played here in the '86 U.S. Junior, and it's been a special place for me ever since.   
  
  Q. A good weekend. Is it just the little things?   
 PHIL MICKELSON: Usually it's just little tweaks here and there. I think that's all it was.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT