QUAIL HOLLOW CHAMPIONSHIP
April 29, 2010
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. If I told you yesterday after you left the golf course that you were going to shoot a 2-under par 70, would you have believed me and would you have been okay with that?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: I'll take it, but I've actually had some good omens when I've not felt good. The last couple times where this has happened I've ended up playing very well and even won at Doral a year ago. So it's a good omen. I just need to just pace myself, which I did, and played well. I may have run out of a little bit of energy there towards the end, but I hit some good shots and was able to shoot a decent round for the first round.  
  
  Q. Coming down the stretch you looked like you were a little bit tired even making the turn, and you just kept digging and digging and digging, but by 17 you looked like the legs were going just a little bit.   
 PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, I started to feel it going up 15 green, walking up to the green there. But I'm feeling much better. I had two and a half of those IV bags yesterday that seemed to really help out. Hopefully this weekend I'll feel much better.  
  
  Q. You look like you're feeling a lot better now. What's the plan for tomorrow?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: I've got to get home and get some rest. I go early tomorrow, and the greens should be nice and smooth. The golf course is playing just beautifully. It's in great shape. I love the way the course is set up.   
 Getting off early to an early start, hopefully I'll play a good round tomorrow.  
  
  Q. Talk about your round.   
 PHIL MICKELSON: I'm feeling okay. Again, it doesn't matter. It only matters what you shoot. I shot a couple under par today, a good opening round. I may have run out of energy there towards the end, but that's okay. I've had some good fortune when I've not felt good in the past, and so I fully expect to play well and hopefully tomorrow will shoot a good round to give myself a chance heading into the weekend.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, I don't know. I'm two for two; the last two times I've fainted and woken up in a pool of vomit, I've won. Laying there on the floor wondering where I am, a good omen came over me. (Laughter.)  
  
  Q. Where were those?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: Doral and San Diego back in '01 or '02. It was the year I had just hit it in the ocean at Pebble and the next week I won in San Diego.   
  
  Q. What's going on with your health?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: I don't know. It's just a weird deal. Yesterday when I pulled out I went to the medical center and they put two and a half of those IV bags in me, and I feel a lot better. I don't quite have the energy yet, but I think this weekend I'll feel great. Like I said, I think it helps me play better. I think it helps me pace myself and not get ahead. I don't get too far ahead of the round. I take it one shot at a time and kind of pace myself walking up to the green, and I seem to play better.   
  
  Q. When you see low scores posted in the morning and you have a later tee time, how if at all does that affect your strategy?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: Sometimes when you see those low scores you might tend to press. Today that was the last thing on my mind. I usually like to look at the leaderboard. I did not look too much today. I was more concerned about just kind of pacing myself and keeping my energy level up enough to finish the round. I ran out a little bit towards the end, but it's okay. I would have taken 2-under at the start, and then that gives me a chance tomorrow to go shoot something low.  
  
  Q. Are you just weak and lacking energy or are you sick to your stomach?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, I feel much better now. I'm just a little weak, but it's getting a lot better. It came and went fairly quick.  
  
  Q. Will you take any more IVs today?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: I may, but I doubt it, unless I don't continue to progress.  
  
  Q. Were you thinking hospital last night possibly?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: Well, that's where I was headed, but this tournament is a step above. It's got a medical center right here, right here in the parking lot. Those nice little touches saved me a trip.  
  
  Q. Were you feeling worse last year at Doral?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: Yes, because it was so hot, too. I think the heat made it tougher.  
  
  Q. Talk about the course setup.   
 PHIL MICKELSON: It's beautiful. It's a beautiful golf course. The setup couldn't be better, the pin placements were wonderful, and it was a very fair test. We saw some low scores and we saw some high scores. It's a course that will penalize you if you hit some poor shots. I hit driver in the water on 7. It happens. You make some mistakes here. But there's some birdie holes, too, and that's what's fun about it.  
  
  Q. When did you start feeling weak today?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: It was walking up the hill I kind of felt like, let's just get in. But like I say, I feel much better and I'm getting better. I shot 2-under today, which I'm pleased with. If I can continue to get better as the tournament goes on, I should be able to work myself into contention for Sunday, which is ultimately the goal. This is one of the best galleries on TOUR that we have here in Charlotte.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT