SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 1, 2010
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Phil, nice opening round, 3-under 69. Start by telling me now you turned lemons into lemonade at the 8th.  
 PHIL MICKELSON: My 17th hole. I had gone the entire round without a penalty stroke. I was so excited. There was so much water out here. I seem to find it. I aimed far enough left and pulled into the water on the right. Hit a hybrid, just trying to salvage par, and hit it up there on the green, which is a really good shot, about 60 feet. The putt went in. It was one those fluke things. I was trying to save par there, and I ended up making a long putt.  
  
  Q. I've seen you ride momentum from shots like that for an entire tournament. You have to be in a good frame of mind.  
 PHIL MICKELSON: I had thrown a couple of shots away around the greens earlier in the round and came back with some birdies. To finish up a round that got progressively more difficult with the wind, shot 3-under, I was pleased with the way the round went.  
  
  Q. I know one of the reasons you come here, it's a good golf course and tournament, the speed of the greens. Looks like these greens have some speed to them.  
 PHIL MICKELSON: They do have some speed, and you have to be very careful, not just on the putts, but you have to be careful on your approach shots because all the areas around the greens are shaved. If you hit the ball that rolls off the greens, it will go 30 yards away. It's a very challenging and thought-provoking golf course that forces you to play away from a number of pins.  
  
  Q. Always fun watching you play. What did you like most about your round today?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: I liked the finish. I was able to make a birdie coming in. I felt like the early part of the round, the first 10, 11 holes, I had a chance to get pretty low. And I threw a few shots away and was still even par, but I birdied 3 coming in and ended up shooting in the 60s, which I thought was a good round.  
  
  Q. The things you've struggled with coming in, did you kind of get some answers to some of those things today?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: The biggest thing for me is putting a number on the board. Maybe last week I had some penalty shots, maybe the week before that I wasn't putting well, whatever, whatever it was, I wasn't shooting the number, and today I was able to post a pretty good number.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT