WGC CA CHAMPIONSHIP
March 11, 2010
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   PHIL MICKELSON: I got in late with the time change and stuff, I'm a little groggy. So, what's up? 

 Q. You said you didn't practice much last week. 
 PHIL MICKELSON: Well, we were in Houston and we had some stuff that Amy and I -- well, Amy had, so we were in Houston for a while.

 Q. How is she?
 PHIL MICKELSON: Good. She's doing good. Thank you. 

 Q. What do you think about sunny South Florida?
 PHIL MICKELSON: The thing about this course that's so great, though, it can handle this wind and still be playable. And so even though it was a difficult day, you saw a lot of scores under par. It was very playable. It's a great design, and it handles all different conditions.

 Q. Was it enjoyable?
 PHIL MICKELSON: I enjoyed it, yeah. I thought it was fun. I thought it was fun to kind of fight the elements a little bit. Although it's windy, it's certainly not a cold wind. It feels great out here. The temperature is wonderful.

 Q. Talk about the dynamic of not being able to practice that much and coming in and trying to get yourself going, and obviously this is not the easiest place to play. 
 PHIL MICKELSON: No, but I've got Butch here and I'm on a course that I've had some success at. The other thing, too, is usually the tee times are around noon, unfortunately tomorrow will be a little early so it gives me a chance before the round to get a practice session in. 
 So when I teed off, I didn't feel as rusty, even though today, I may not have had too much practice, I had a couple of hours before the round and felt pretty good.

 Q. How do you feel about your score?
 PHIL MICKELSON: I'm happy with 71. I know it's not in contention yet, but my goal was to shoot something as solid as I did today, and improve on it each day. So I have to go lower each day.

 Q. And you went to two drivers? 
 PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, it's a little different. I'm going to do this a little bit more this year, because the driver that I have, the FT-9, it hits the ball long and far, but it's also very high, and has great carry. 
 A course like Doral, where it's very windy, this driver helps keep it down out of the wind, as well as it doesn't go quite as far as my current driver. So there are some holes where I want to hit a little bit more than 3-wood but the driver I have hits it into a narrow spot.

 Q. What else?
 PHIL MICKELSON: Two drivers, 3-wood, hybrid. I took out one of my wedges. 

 Q. Do you feel as prepared for Augusta as in the past?
 PHIL MICKELSON: Well, I didn't get off to the start on the West Coast that I would like. And I said I was going to add a tournament, because I didn't play in the Match Play, so I'm going to end up adding Bay Hill.
 So I'll play Bay Hill, Houston, and the Masters and I feel like that will give me a chance to be a little bit more competitively ready heading in. 

 Q. Do you feel you have focus on golf again?
 PHIL MICKELSON: Oh, yeah. 

 Q. Did you realize there were breast cancer survivors wearing pink following you? 
 PHIL MICKELSON: I didn't notice that today, I wasn't really looking, but that's cool. 

 Q. Is it wearing on you at all, your focus on golf at all?
 PHIL MICKELSON: No, I'm ready to play. I know that although I didn't have the greatest start, I hit the ball very well on the West Coast. The key for me was putting and so when I did have time last week, I spent it on putting. I had the best putting day today that I've had all year. 
 I ended up making some good putts, but also, the ones that I missed were catching the lip, and it just tells me that it's back to where it needs to be. 

 Q. Did you widen your stance?
 PHIL MICKELSON: Actually my alignment, you try to identify what the issue was, my alignment was off. It was misaligned, the putter head. I used some lasers and things to train my eyes and get my alignment proper, and all of the stuff Stockton and I were working on started to kick in.

 Q. There were reports that Tiger plans to come back to Bay Hill, what is your reaction to him coming out sooner or later? 
 PHIL MICKELSON: Well, as soon as a statement comes out, I'll talk about it, but since that's not been confirmed, I'll hold off.

 Q. Had you heard about that?
 PHIL MICKELSON: I haven't been paying attention, I'm sorry, no. 

 Q. The Houston trip --
 PHIL MICKELSON: It was supposed to be before the season started and we had to postpone it. 

 Q. Will you use two drivers at Augusta? 
 PHIL MICKELSON: Possibly, but this driver I used today, the one that keeps it down, I don't see a purpose at Augusta. So honestly, probably not, I'll probably just use my regular one. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT