WGC CA CHAMPIONSHIP
March 14, 2010
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. What happened with the elbow?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: Just jarred it and it kind of stung for a minute and after a while it went away.   
  
  Q. When are you going to Augusta?   
 PHIL MICKELSON: Not for another couple of weeks. Not for another couple of weeks. I'm not sure exactly what day yet relative to these next couple of events. I'm adding Bay Hill. That may change my schedule a little bit.  
  
  Q. You mentioned how you did not exactly build off of the momentum from the end of last year. Did it surprise you, or with everything going on, is that just the way it worked out?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: I'm not sure. I'm doing the best I can. It just is not quite clicking on the course yet. But it was a better round today. And it doesn't feel as far off. I feel like there's just one key area that needs to get improved upon, and that's on the greens.   
 I feel like if I make a couple of key putts, stop letting these 3-, 4-, 5-footers go, I think that it will take a lot of stress off of the rest of my game.   
  
  Q. Did you play a shot right-handed today?   
 PHIL MICKELSON: Yes.   
  
  Q. Is this like once every tournament?   
 PHIL MICKELSON: No, but it usually is about eight to ten a year. I mean, that's been my quota throughout the year is about eight to ten times, I've got to play one righty.   
  
  Q. I know the plan is always to peak for the majors; do you feel like you're heading in that direction?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: I am not playing as -- or scoring, I should say, as well as I need to heading into Augusta, which is why I'm adding Bay Hill.   
 I need to get in contention in one of these events coming up to really give myself the best chance heading into Augusta. So I'll end up adding Bay Hill and Houston and see if I can get a little bit better scoring down.   
  
  Q. You seemed to not get concerned about the results that might not be as high as you want, because you can turn it on pretty quick; is that a pattern that you're comfortable with?   
 PHIL MICKELSON: You know, it has flipped -- it can flip on a dime. Last year I've gone from missing the cut to winning. It's just a matter of finding one little thing to get it to click. I think it might be my setup is off with the putter, and I'll see if I can get it dial in this week.   
 If I can come out and get a good event at Bay Hill and build some momentum heading into Augusta, I think I'll be all right.  
  
  Q. You'll do Bay Hill, Houston and Augusta?   
 PHIL MICKELSON: Yes.   
  
  Q. Will you work with Dave?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: I have not checked his schedule, either he or Dave, Junior; we'll have him take a look. He offered to help last week. I was putting pretty good last week. I didn't need it. I thought I was going to be all right. It isn't quite there yet.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT