WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 25, 2010
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Phil, how would you assess your 3-under 68 today? 
 PHIL MICKELSON: It was up and down. I mean, it wasn't what I wanted for the first round. I played better than that I felt, but I'm right in it. I tee off tomorrow at 8:00 and I've got to get off to a good start and see if I can turn in a low round to try to get back in it for the weekend.

 Q. Freddie said the same thing to us about a half hour ago, if you just sneak in there in the afternoon early on day one and you go play early on day two, then you can really go low. Do you feel like the course is more gettable in the a.m.?
 PHIL MICKELSON: I think so. It was a little bit windier today and it made some shots challenging. But the greens should be smooth, and if you make a few putts early on you can get a good hot round in the morning.

 Q. Yesterday we stood on the tee box during the pro-am for Golf Central and you said that you're close. Do you think you're close? What does that mean exactly when you say you're close?
 PHIL MICKELSON: Well, it means it's just a small little thing, maybe something in setup, maybe just a small little thing you have to change, instead of having the putts catch the lip, fall in. It's just a small little deal. I feel like I'm playing well and I'm hitting the ball well and I'm putting myself in good position to score well, but the critical putts that I need to fall haven't quite yet, but they don't feel like they're far off. They don't feel like they're missing by a bunch. 

 Q. Do you feel good about tomorrow?
 PHIL MICKELSON: I'm excited about getting out and getting the round going and seeing if I can get a hot hand. 

 Q. Talk about playing in the afternoon today. 
 PHIL MICKELSON: It might have been fractionally more difficult because of the wind, but I thought there were still a lot of birdies out there. I thought there were still some low rounds. I'm excited to tee off at 8:00 tomorrow and we're going to have smooth greens and hopefully calm conditions, and if I can get a hot putter, maybe shoot a low round and get in it for the weekend.

 Q. How was putting today?
 PHIL MICKELSON: It was okay, but again, it kind of held me back. I needed to make a few more. I had plenty of opportunities to do it, but I just didn't quite get it in, but it doesn't feel too far off. 

 Q. How was the course playing today? 
 PHIL MICKELSON: It's in such good shape. I'm playing terrific, and I think that's why you're seeing so many low scores. We had some rain earlier in the week so it's a little softer, but it's in wonderful condition, and we're all excited to be here.

 Q. Did it get a little bumpier out there in the afternoon?
 PHIL MICKELSON: No, it didn't. I thought the greens were rolling really well, and there were a lot of birdies out there to be had.

 Q. For the most part are you happy with your round?
 PHIL MICKELSON: I'm not overly disappointed because I know that a good round tomorrow will get me right in it for the weekend. If you shoot a couple under par you're still right there. But I need a hot round; I need a 6-, 7-, 8-under-par round to get back in it.

 Q. How about when you're walking up and you hear all the people chanting ASU and Phil. What does that mean to you?
 PHIL MICKELSON: It's cool. It's a special place. This tournament has meant a lot to me over the years, from playing in this event as an amateur when I went to ASU and living here for so many years, this is a really wonderful place, and I love coming back.

 Q. Does the concentration level kind of take it to the next level for you?
 PHIL MICKELSON: I don't know, I enjoy the crowds here. I enjoy the people. I love the 16th hole. It's a lot of fun. I look forward to coming back here every year. It brings back a lot of great memories for me from when I was in college.

 Q. Are you getting some encouragement about your family and stuff like that?
 PHIL MICKELSON: A little bit, and it's been very nice, thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT