AT&T PEBBLE BEACH NATIONAL PRO-AM
February 13, 2010
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. After what we went through last year, how enjoyable was it for to you play Pebble today?
 PHIL MICKELSON: This is spectacular. We've got one of the best golf courses in perfect weather. I'm so happy for this tournament. We had great weather all three days, and supposed to be nice tomorrow, too.

 Q. The new fairways with cut lines for the U.S. Open. Are already in place. I think it's gonna be a huge advantage having played here, able to get your sightlines ready for June; would you agree?
 PHIL MICKELSON: I think that's a good point. You are going to have to be much more conservative off the tee because the fairways aren't gonna be this soft either and they're very narrow. The rough will be higher for the U.S. Open. 
 So I don't see many drivers out here. Looking at the cut line and where you'll have to hit the ball to keep it in the fairway, I see a lot of irons and hybrids is the way they're setting it up. 

 Q. Today you might have slightly misshit one or maybe two shots. I thought it was an impeccable round of ball-striking. Eight shots back going into tomorrow. Is it too much to overcome?
 PHIL MICKELSON: It's a lot. I mean, I'm gonna have to shoot 61 or 2 to have a chance. I've been hitting the ball well, Peter, but as you saw today, but just didn't get the ball in the hole. Maybe didn't hit it close enough, things like that. 

 Q. 69 today. Looks like the game is almost quite there. 
 PHIL MICKELSON: It feels close. I feel like I've been hitting a lot of good shots and not getting the score that I feel I should. Sometimes that's just a matter of time. It just will hopefully click sometime soon.
 We had a great day today at Pebble Beach. The weather's been spectacular. This whole tournament the last three days has been fabulous weather. I'm so happy for 'em because we've had a run in the past where it hasn't been the best. 
 But to be able to play Pebble in this condition and this type of weather is just amazing. 

 Q. When they cut the field back, how much does that help?
 PHIL MICKELSON: I was surprised at the impact it made. We rarely waited. We would get to 17 here at Pebble, and usually there's a two-group wait. We didn't wait a second they were off the green.
 There were holes where we historically have a big wait. No. 5. You walk off 4, and there's two groups on 5 tee usually. 
 Today, we waited maybe a minute or two. I couldn't believe the difference it made.

 Q. As you're out there playing today, are you thinking ahead to June at all as you're playing the rounds?
 PHIL MICKELSON: We are. We're looking at it strategically the way we'll have to play certain holes. Gonna be different than the way we're playing to this week because the fairways are soft and the rough isn't quite as high. 
 When we get these firm fairways, when we get rough, it's U.S. Open rough. It's gonna be a very defensive golf course. They've taken length and the driver away just looking at what their intentions are. I'm seeing a lot long irons and hybrids off many tees making the course and approach shots play much longer.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT