AT&T PEBBLE BEACH NATIONAL PRO-AM
February 11, 2010
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. What did you think of your first turn around this course?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: I like this golf course a lot. It's a terrific track. One of my favorites now on tour. I think Mike Strantz did a great job in his design of the bunkering, the greens, the holes, the layout, the playable of it. It's really a wonderful track, and a great addition to this tournament.  
  
  Q. Did you figure out the greens?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: I didn't putt very well today, no. I hit a lot of greens and hit the ball well, but I struggled on the greens.  
  
  Q. Looks like everyone out here is a Mickelson fan. Do you feel it? And how did they express that for you? How are you able to get that energy from them?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: I don't know if that's the case, but I sure have enjoyed playing here. The people have been wonderful. They seem to support this tournament very well.   
  
  Q. Seems like a lot of the top scores or best scores are coming from here today. I assume because not much wind. Do you feel you could have gone lower?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, there were a lot of holes out there that you could make birdie on without the wind. If the wind starts blowing, this golf course is a real difficult one because it's so exposed out on the ocean.   
 But we caught it on a pretty calm day, and I thought that there was some low rounds to be had out there. But you've got to make some putts and roll the ball well on the green if you're gonna shoot a low number. So that was the one area that I didn't quite do.   
  
  Q. You feel fortunate to get it on a fairly calm day?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: I think so, yeah.   
  
  Q. You talk about this being one of your favorites now. Could you compare it to Pebble?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: It's up there, yeah. It's definitely up there. I think the holes here and the subtlety, the aesthetics, the playability of it is terrific.  
  
  Q. Didn't hurt to have a guy that was hot for a while.   
 PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, he played some good golf and rolled the ball well and hit a lot of good shots and played a good, solid round.  
  
  Q. Seems like the pace of play is a lot better than in past years. Is that the course or the field size, what changed?   
 PHIL MICKELSON: I don't know, but it was amazing. We're used to having two or three groups waiting at the turn, and we didn't have to wait at all. We just kept on playing. We hardly waited on anybody in front of us. The group behind us we didn't even see. So it was a real difference.  
  
  Q. Changes your experience a little bit, I would imagine.   
 PHIL MICKELSON: Yes, but I've always enjoyed it, too. I enjoy playing with the amateurs and I enjoy learning a lot this week. Bob Diamond with Barclays and Joe Kernen with CNBC have a lot of interesting insights on what's going on in the world today, and I enjoyed listening this week.  
  
  Q. You have so many people that want your autograph. Is it a burden or a responsibility that you don't take lightly at least?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: I don't know. Just been out here 18 years, and it's part of playing the tour. I think it's important for the players to give time, because it's these people who come out and support the game of golf that allow us to do this for sure a living.  
  
  Q. What do you think about the USGA and Solheim. I guess they're having talks about the whole...  
 PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, I don't know. I just got off the course, so I haven't heard what's transpired.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT