THE PRESIDENTS CUP
October 11, 2009
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. An undefeated week, one tie, but you felt like you didn't play that great today. 
 PHIL MICKELSON: I was a few under, but I didn't putt the way I had the first few matches and we made a lot of pars together and the match was pretty close. 
 But it was a fun week, and I'm really happy to be part of this team and to see the way our guys played today, especially early on.

 Q. What was the most special point of this whole week for you?
 PHIL MICKELSON: This week is a week where everybody gets to know each other and relationships and friendships are formed that last a career. And this has just been a fun week for us to get to know all of the other players and their wives and caddies, and hopefully that will last throughout the rest of our careers.

 Q. Speaking of your wife, Amy came in this week, that had to be hugely important for you. 
 PHIL MICKELSON: That was awesome. It was a wonderful surprise. It was so hard to not have her here, this is such an emotional week, these team events we play, and this is the first time she has not been with me and it was difficult on both of us.

 Q. What's on your schedule for the rest of the season? 
 PHIL MICKELSON: Well I have a few weeks off. Pretty much our season ends with the FedExCup. What's been so nice is having the FedExCup so close to The Presidents Cup and the Ryder Cup.

 Q. Has that helped the Americans over the last two Presidents Cups now and last year's Ryder Cup? 
 PHIL MICKELSON: Without question, and it's been huge for me, because rather than shutting it down for four to six weeks and then trying to get sharp for one event, it's easy to just carry the momentum and all that work and effort of getting your game in shape for the FedExCup and having one week off before you have this team event, it's been huge for me and it's helped a lot of other players. 
 It's been a really fun, fun week and I really enjoyed playing with a lot of the guys I was able to partner with, three different players, all of them were terrific and played terrific. It has really been a special week. 

 Q. There was no way you were going to lose that match when your wife, Amy, comes up and surprises you last night. She's still recuperating and that had to really just inspire you, didn't it?
 PHIL MICKELSON: It was an incredible surprise. We had talked about possibly doing it, but she surprised me. I didn't think she was coming up, and she actually hid in the bathroom when I walked in my room, I didn't know she was there, and she scared me pretty good. It was an awesome surprise, though. 

 Q. The 12th green has been special all week, with Sean O'Hair's putt and today, I watched you watch the video board and see Tiger clinch the win for the United States.
 PHIL MICKELSON: That was cool. And what was really cool was how our early matches went. For Hunter Mahan to come back, our lead-off guy, to come back and win 2 & 1; the guys in the first five, six spots, those were important spots, for both teams. If the International side could have won those points, they could have got right back in the match, but our guys showed a lot of heart and class and ended up winning this event early. 

 Q. You have to carry all kind of momentum into 2010. 
 PHIL MICKELSON: I sure am looking forward to it. I'm looking forward to next year. I'm looking forward to getting back and playing a full schedule, and this has been such a fun week. Playing here at Harding Park in the San Francisco area has been a unique experience. It's such a great golf course, and yet anybody in the world can come and play here. It's great, it's so special to have an event like this. It's so emotional and prestigious to play on this site. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT