THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 25, 2018
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Solid round today, especially on the back nine, you needed to make something happen.
PHIL MICKELSON: It was a tale of two nines because that front nine, I turned a 4- or 5-under par round into 1-over, and the back nine I played well and was able to bring it home.
The front nine was disappointing after getting to a couple-under par and making a bad swing and made a double and missed a couple good birdie opportunities early on.  Tomorrow, it tells me there's a 7- , 8- , 9-under par round out there.  We saw today with Keegan and Spieth, and if I get off to a good start and play a solid front nine, 2-, 3-under par, and I think that back nine is very gettable; I'm looking to go low.
Q. The guys in the last few groups really struggling, tomorrow should be some great tough?
PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, I think we're going to continue to see that for a while where the morning wave gets out, you have greens that are tracking a lot better.  When you have greens with this much pitch and contour, the greens have to be perfect, so you can use a lot of pace to straighten out putts.  Early rounds have a distinct advantage and you saw guys getting hot with the putter.  I expect to see that tomorrow and the rest of the Playoffs.
Q. You've been talking about trending all week long.  Does today continue that trend?
PHIL MICKELSON: I think it does in the sense that I drove the ball well.  I hit a lot of good iron shots.  I turned a 64 into a 68, but that's the last little step.  The last step is getting out of the round with what I feel like I deserved.  The front nine, I threw a lot of shots away, and I just can't afford to do that.
But my play, overall play is trending up.  I drove it like a stallion today.  It was awesome.  Hit a lot of good shots that are starting to come off.  Putter is starting to feel better.  Game is coming around.
Q. What's clicking with your progress?
PHIL MICKELSON: I've been driving it well.  We had a great breakthrough when Andrew and I got together last weekend to start fresh, and it started to really click.
Thursday was an anomaly.  Thursday, I drove like I usually do.  It was more of a mental block, and yesterday and today, I had a really good day off the tee and if I continue that, I'm going to make a lot of birdies tomorrow.
Q. What would Tony finish awe bring to the team?
PHIL MICKELSON: A ton because not only is he a great player, he's a solid guy.  He's one of my favorite guys to be around.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT