DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 7, 2009
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Prior success here at Deutsche Bank, probably a little disappointed with your finish.   
 PHIL MICKELSON: Maybe. This is one of my favorite golf courses. I love the TPC Boston and what Gil Hanse and Brad Faxon did.   
 I didn't play my best, but I actually hit the ball very well this week. I didn't perform on the greens. But when I did, the last nine holes here, I ended up making a few putts and finished 5-under, so it was a fun way to finish the round.  
  
  Q. You have announced that you are committed to play BMW. All systems still go?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: I'm not sure yet. I wasn't ready to make that decision last Friday, so I'm going to fly home tonight and we'll see how it goes.  
  
  Q. Presidents Cup, two captain's picks will be made on Tuesday. He hasn't made it official, but he has suggested what he may do. What are your thoughts on how he's been so public that likely he'll be Lucas and Hunter, and what do you think about that?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: Well, I think there's four or five guys that he could pick and not go wrong. I think that there's a number of players that could be picked and that would be a great addition to the team. They bring a lot to the table and perform their game as well as their personality and are great off the golf course to be around. So I don't think he can go wrong.   
 And certainly the two he's mentioned, you can't go wrong. Lucas won the U.S. Open, Hunter has been on the last couple teams and he's played very well, and I've enjoyed partnering with him.  
 There are other players right there, too, that he could pick and you just can't go wrong.  
  
  Q. Any thoughts on the FedExCup changes so far?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: I don't understand the points obviously, so I'm not sure how it all is working out. I just know that if you play well, you get rewarded, and if you don't, you fall back, and I haven't played the best the last couple of weeks, so I've fallen back. It seems like whoever plays well is going to win, and that's all that matters.   
  
  Q. A couple comments about your day.   
 PHIL MICKELSON: I shot 5-under. I'll gladly take that. I didn't get the ball in the hole the front nine, and then I putted the best I've putted -- I haven't made that many putts in months, on the back nine. It was fun to see a couple of putts roll in, and I ended up making some birdies.   
  
  Q. Obviously everyone knows about your situation. Has it made it more difficult to the commit to the Playoffs?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: It's just day-to-day. I don't want to be gone for two weeks, so I'm going to fly home tonight, and I'll see how things are. It's just hard being apart for an extended period of time. Five days here or there, things are going well. But it's still day-to-day, and it's just hard being apart.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT