PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 16, 2009
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  Q. What do you take away?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: Well, the last two weeks have been frustrating with my play. I'll have, fortunately, a week off before we start the FedExCup. And I'll see if I can get my game turned around for Barclays.  
  
  Q. Is that when we're going to see you again?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: I'll play not this week but the next at the Barclays. That's pretty much for sure.   
  
  Q. Talk about your play.   
 PHIL MICKELSON: I had 205 yards, hit a 5-iron right through the wind and landed six, eight feet short of the hole. Went in. I couldn't believe that thing went in. It was fun to see.  
  
  Q. You said yesterday that you thought you were making progress. Did you feel that again today?   
 PHIL MICKELSON: It's hard to say. I haven't putted the best for a little while now. It's going to take a little more than overnight. But I at least feel like I have little bit better direction.  
  
  Q. What do you think of the media crowd following your playing partner?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: I've come to expect it with Ryo. He's a wonderful player and obviously very popular in Japan.   
 And I remember playing a practice round at Augusta and seeing two or three Japanese photographers pulling into one of the hotels there. I thought Ryo has got to be at the course. And I pulled up and, sure enough, there he was standing outside the clubhouse.   
 So I think he handled it very well for a 17-, 18-year-old, obviously great player. But he handles throngs of people around him all the time. He does a great job. He's a classy guy.  
  
  Q. Could he be one of the next great ones?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: I would think so. He sure is winning a lot. He's winning a lot in Japan. And he's a tremendous player. Has a lot of shots. I would certainly think so. And he's so young, too.  
  
  Q. Who would you like to see win this now?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: I'd like to see it be a fun competitive finish. I think the majors have been exciting to the end. I think I'd like to see that. There's a good chance that Tiger could pull away like he usually does. But Padraig has been playing tough and I haven't really looked at the leaderboard. I know there's somebody else at 6 too. Y.E. Yang. And a bunch of other players.   
 So I hope that it comes down to the last few holes, because the last few majors have been exciting.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT