PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 15, 2009
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   PHIL MICKELSON: The course is in great shape today. Even though there was a little wind, it was soft. And you could make some birdies.   
There's some good low scores out there we saw guys shooting. I wasn't one of them, but they were out there.  
  
  Q. You said yesterday you thought your problems with your putting had sort of carried over to the rest of your game. Is that still the case today?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: I didn't hit the ball very well today either. But I didn't make very many putts, but it felt a little better. And I feel like after some sessions last night, I feel like I'm getting on the right track at least and hopefully I'll get it figured out here over the next week. I'll have a week off to get ready before the Barclays.  
  
  Q. Is it tough to get keyed up for the final round knowing at the third round you're 8-over?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: Yes.  
  
  Q. Did the layoff take more toll on your game than you thought it would?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: Possibly. I think the biggest issue for me is I've got to get this putter straightened out. I've got to get confident on the greens. I've got to start seeing the lines better, get my speed better. Get the ball rolling better. Because if you get the ball in the hole, everything else falls into place.  
  
  Q. Do you feel like your putting has improved today?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: I wouldn't say that, but I would say today I think I have a little better direction after spending a couple hours last night looking at it.   
 And I feel like I, at least, have good direction. But it's going to take some time and some practice to get it down.  
  
  Q. Is it going to be a challenge to focus and concentrate like you need to out there?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: No, I wouldn't say that. I think I practiced and prepared but I just haven't preformed that well.  
  
  Q. 14, what was the ruling there?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: I was just asking him. His ruling was right. But I get the ruling between release from the grandstands or line of sight release from the immovable obstruction. I was asking him the difference and was trying to clarify it for my own knowledge.  
  
  Q. The poa annua on the greens, does that bother you out here?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: No, I think that -- no, most greens, the poa annua will infest bent. In San Diego, that's certainly the case. So I'm used to putting on the poa annua. I thought the surfaces are rolling very true.  
  
  Q. Is it a relief that this is the last major, so you don't have to ask yourself: Will I, wouldn't I, should I, shouldn't I play on this?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: Maybe. But I think we're past the toughest part and now we just -- so I feel better about that as opposed to it being the last major.  
  
  Q. Obviously with the medical issues facing both your mom and wife, was it a season where you take the attitude that you try your best and whatever happens happens? Is the competitive edge different than in the past?   
 PHIL MICKELSON: My expectations are high. I'm disappointed with my performance this week, regardless of what's going on or off the course, I still have high expectations.  
  
  Q. Are you going to watch the rest of the event on TV today?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: That or preseason football. My Chargers play tonight. The Vikings looked good last night, too. They're going to have a good year.  
  
  Q. Is it hard for you to watch major events you're not involved; will you enjoy it at all?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: It's frustrating for me to not be in contention on the weekends of a major. That's the toughest thing. But also good motivation for me to work harder.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT