PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2009
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  Q. When you assess the day, do you think it's going to be enough?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, it will be interesting. I don't know if it will make it or not. I'm not going to beat many people putting the way I am. But I've got to -- again, spent time last night. I thought I had some good direction. I thought I putted a little better. But I felt I hit it better. But I've got to get this thing turned around.  
  
  Q. No. 12, magnificent birdie there in the wind, looked like you had some momentum. How much did 14 sort of take it out a little bit early in the round?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: I kind of shrugged 14 off. Because that happens. It wasn't a bad putt it just did a 270 on me. I think that missing the putt on 18, that would have been a good par. Those are the putts that I need to make. Uphill left-to-right. It wasn't a hard putt if I make that it keeps the round going. Number one to miss a 3-footer, those are the ones taking a momentum. And after a great shot on No. 4 par 3 at about eight feet with a 5-iron in a crosswind not to make those putts it's just killing my momentum throughout the wind.  
  
  Q. Just a kink in putting or general rust not being able to work on your game at home as much as you normally would?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: I think the struggling on the greens is carrying over a little bit into maybe my focus on some other shots. But I don't feel I'm hitting it bad. But I am hitting some bad shots. But I don't feel like I'm striking it horrendously. It's just I'm having trouble scoring right now.  
  
  Q. What do you think the schedule will be from here. Obviously you hope you play the weekend. But what will the schedule be at best under the circumstances?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: It's hard to say. I don't want to look too far down the road for at least another year because we're day-to-day with everything. Right now things are okay and I'm planning on playing Barclays and we'll see where I go from there.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT