WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 9, 2009
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. So using this week as an opportunity to kind of sense a sense of where your game is at, what were you encouraged by?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: Encouraged that I was able to get out and play, and the biggest thing for me this week was identifying where I was weak. I actually expected to play a lot better than I did. I was playing well heading into the week. It became pretty obvious so that when I get on green speeds like this, when I get in rough just a little bit thicker, my short game wasn't where it needs to be. So I'm going to spend extra time on that getting my chipping down, my putting touch down in preparation for Hazeltine.  
  
  Q. And what is your schedule now for the next two days?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: Practice, just getting ready.  
  
  Q. Are you going to head out to Hazeltine straight away from here?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: I'm not sure yet. I may go home for a day or two or head over there.   
  
  Q. Respectfully, so many people are concerned for the home front. What have you heard this week?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: About?   
  
  Q. About from Amy and so forth. They must have been excited you're back out here again.   
 PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, it's going to be an up-and-down road for us for the next couple years, and it's been promising that we've had some good diagnosis, that things have been going well in that regard. But it's still never easy, and there's still going to be some bumps along the road.   
 There was a little more rough. I didn't play as well as I expected. I had a good week or two to prepare and get ready. I had been playing some great rounds in practice and shooting some low scores. I expected to come out here and play well. I had a good practice round here, and I expected to play well.   
 I didn't score well. I didn't play as poorly as the score reflected. I thought my short game was not as sharp as it needed to be on greens that got firm, on rough that was a little bit higher than I had been practicing on.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT