WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 7, 2009
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   PHIL MICKELSON: I fought for pars a lot of the day today. I didn't have a lot of great birdie opportunities.  
  
  Q. How far did you have into 2?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: 260 to the hole. I hit 3-wood off the tee.   
  
  Q. How did you roll it today?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: Not bad, not bad. I made some putts, made some good ones, and the ones that I missed I rolled good. I didn't feel like I came out of it or blocked it or pulled it. I just maybe hit one through the break on 9 or what have you. But I was pleased overall with the way I rolled it and made a lot of good ones.   
  
  Q. The course seemed to have firmed up a little bit today. Did it play a little different than yesterday?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: It did. The greens were a little bit firmer and the fairways were firmer. I thought there were some low scores out there. I mean, 1-under certainly I'm not hugely disappointed, but there's 5-, 6-under. If you play well you're going to shoot 5-, 6-under.  
  
  Q. Is this a good test for next week?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: It's a great test because the grass length is the same, the rough is very similar, green surfaces are very similar, same speed, same grass. It couldn't be a better venue for Hazeltine.  
  
  Q. Is it a good venue if the PGA were anywhere else?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, you could hold the PGA here and it would be a great site, and they have.   
  
  Q. Did you have another thing with a squirrel out there today? I thought I looked up and saw a TV screen. Are you being stalked by squirrels this week?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: I didn't think I had a squirrel issue today. Yesterday there was one. I kept trying to scare him away and it kept coming right at me. I thought it was trying to take me out.   
  
  Q. Can I go off topic? I'm working on a story on yardage books, and I've talked to Bones a lot. How would you feel if you showed up on the first tee without a yardage book and Bones didn't have his, either?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: Well, that would never happen. I mean, I would make my own or something.  
  
  Q. Well, how important is a yardage book to you?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: I think yardage book is something we've come to rely on, yeah, quite a bit. Our distance control -- we practice distance control. We practice flying a 9-iron an exact yardage. And usually, you know, we'll be within one, two when we're hitting well, within one or two yards of that, for the most part, everybody out here. So we practice that, and if we don't know the exact yardage, it'll throw us off.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT