WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 6, 2009
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   PHIL MICKELSON: I got off to a shaky start. I didn't commit to a lot of shots. I didn't play aggressive. I didn't make aggressive swings and was 3-over at the turn and 3-over through 10, so I was fortunate to get it turned around and it felt good to make two birdies.  
  
  Q. What turned it around for you?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: I think you get into playing a little bit and you realize that you can't play swinging afraid or swinging tentative. I started to trust my swing. I started to make more aggressive shots and ended up giving myself a few birdie chances and made those.  
  
  Q. How much did you miss competing?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: I missed it more than I thought I would.   
 I'll take even par. I was tentative starting out, made a couple of dumb mistakes, missed some shorts putts, and then the last eight holes I played some good golf. I hit some good shots. I made some good putts and got it back to even par, which was critical for me because there's a low round out here. You can shoot 6-, 7-, 8-under par, but if I come in at 3-, 4-over today, that round of 6-, 7-, 8-under, it's just going to get me back to the middle of the field. Now, if I can shoot that tomorrow, I can move right up the leaderboard.  
  
  Q. You talked about the feel and being concerned about the feel. As the round went on you obviously got up-and-down a couple times and made some birdie putts.   
 PHIL MICKELSON: Yes, I started to hit some better shots, and when I did miss some I got up-and-down, made a few birdie putts, and it was a good way to finish.  
  
  Q. One round, four shots behind, is it an ideal position right now for you?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: I wouldn't say it's ideal. I have a lot of making up to do. I was surprised I didn't hit it as well as I have been hitting it at home. I've been driving the ball much better, hitting the ball a lot longer and straighter, and today I didn't drive it as well as I have been the last week or two. Fortunately Butch Harmon is here and we'll get a little work done.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT