THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 23, 2018
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PHIL MICKELSON: I just drove it terrific.  Thought it was going to be a great day and had a great warmup and got on the course, and just did the usual.  So I think it's more of a mental thing right now than it is the actual swing, because I've been driving it great.
I'll go hit some balls and try to get the timing or find out what exactly was a fraction off, but if you had seen the way I drove it yesterday, the previous few days, you would have expected, as I did, to have a phenomenal driving day, and I think I'll get it turned around.  I'll have a good three days.
Q. On the positive side, to scratch out a score, what does that tell you?
PHIL MICKELSON: I fought hard.  This could easily have been a round that got away from me.  I ended up make something putts to keep the round at a good score.  I'm going to go to the range and get this thing turned around in a matter of minutes.  It's not far off and I'm going to come out tomorrow morning and shoot a really good round.
Q. How did you get on the green in two on 18?
PHIL MICKELSON: I hit a nice drive, a little right.  There was a bit of an opening and I just had to hook an 8-iron.  I had a decent lie.  Missed it big over here and you sometimes will get a shot, a lie at least, and the ones I missed a little bit, boy, there were some really tough lies out there but I had a decent one on 18.
Q. You've never been in this position as far as The Ryder Cup goes.  What are your feelings?
PHIL MICKELSON: I really like this golf course.  I had a great week last week where I'm playing well, and I love TPC Boston.  So I'm going to play really well these next two weeks and I'm going to make it an easy decision.
Q. Do you think the date works for you or against you because it's close to Thanksgiving?
PHIL MICKELSON: I think we both have the same challenge of the date.  I think the positive and the negative is that it's an isolated event.
It will be difficult for us because there aren't tournaments we're going to play in leading up to it but it also brings golf in primetime when it's not really showcased and the other sports are at the forefront, so we can get golf back into people's frame of mind.
So we'll both have the challenge, and I'm thinking about maybe playing either the week before, the week after, to make it more worthwhile in the sense that it's not a one-day event.  So I have something else to keep playing for and working for.
Q. He started the trash talking a little bit, that he's the betting favorite right now.  Do you think that's the way it's going to be up until it happens?
PHIL MICKELSON: I think the way I believe I'm going to play the next three or four weeks, that's going to change, so I'll get it down quick.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT