ST. JUDE CLASSIC PRESENTED BY FEDEX
June 13, 2009
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Thank you. Came out this morning and made a birdie but finished with a bogey and a double.   
 PHIL MICKELSON: Had a good third round and the golf course is in great shape, it really took the storm well. It hasn't been affected much at all. It's been a pleasure to play and shot a couple under but I needed to make a big move if I was going to give myself a good chance. May come out tomorrow and see if I can get a hot putter and shoot something low.  
  
  Q. Is putting right now the biggest concern?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: I wouldn't say it's a concern. It's the weakest point. I haven't putted well the first three days. I feel like I've struck the ball well but have not been able to get it in the hole and shoot a number, a good low number and mostly because of the putter.   
 I'll spend sometime on that in the next few days and should be able to get it ironed out for next week.  
  
  Q. You feel like you hit a few good woods on some tees. Is that conscious to try to make sure you're in tune there as well?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: The course is pretty long. You have to hit woods on a lot of holes. I've been hitting a lot of drivers and 3-woods. I anticipate doing the same thing next week.  
  
  Q. The St. Jude Hospital, this is a great cause for the tournament. Can you talk a little bit that?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: It really is cool. I had a chance to meet some of the kids that have been going through treatment at St. Jude earlier in the Pro-Am and it's not right that somebody that young, kids that young should have to be fighting for their life but because of their research and science and technology, they're able to have treatment that gives them an opportunity for a long, successful life.  
  
  Q. 18. Something that didn't work well for you there?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: Obviously it's not my favorite hole on the course but there's nothing wrong with it. It's a great hole, very fair hole. I just haven't played it well.  
  
  Q. What were you kind of thinking about this week?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: I thought I would be in a little better shape. I thought I would gives myself a chance for Sunday's round, maybe within three, four, five shots but I just haven't quite gotten it in the hole yet, haven't made enough putts. I'm looking forward to getting a good round tomorrow.  
  
  Q. What about next week, are you ready?   
 PHIL MICKELSON: I want to get out tomorrow and get a hot hand. I feel like I've been hitting some good shots but haven't been following up with many putts. If I can make some putts, it will give me momentum heading into next week.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT