SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 4, 2009
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Obviously not what you had in mind preparation-wise for next week or, you know, for this week. Tell me what the issue was.
 PHIL MICKELSON: I made some big mistakes. It was really good that I played here because I made some mistakes during the first two rounds that you just can't do competitively. I drove two balls in the water off the tee for stroke and distance. Stuff like that I needed to get out of my system here.
 We were going to work this weekend and make sure that everything did check out heading into next week, so this has been planned for a couple months now and it didn't feel far off. I was concerned with some iron shots. 
 I thought I hit them pretty well today. So I've got to forget about the score. That wasn't close to what I was hoping for, but I'm looking forward to next week.

 Q. What are you going to do now? Sometimes you go to a course you prepare, sometimes you go to an area and another course. What's your plan? 
 PHIL MICKELSON: Well, I'll stay here and take advantage of the time I have with Butch, work on my game here and go into Augusta a little bit early, have another day on the range.

 Q. Forget the score, you're not concerned about the game? What's your feeling?
 PHIL MICKELSON: I obviously didn't want to shoot what I did. I made some ridiculous mistakes that you can't make, and it was great that I played because I didn't want to go into Augusta making those same mistakes, and some of the keys shots that I hit like on 5 where I put two balls in the water, that's -- you can't do those things. Fortunately, those drives would have been fine at Augusta, but there's so much water here that it wasn't good.

 Q. What are your feelings about Augusta?
 PHIL MICKELSON: I expect to play a lot better than I did. I certainly am struggling on the greens, too. I can't see the break for whatever reason. They're immaculate. They roll perfect. I'm not able to make many putts on them. It doesn't feel like my game is far off. I'm not overly concerned with what the numbers showed. Butch is here, and we had some good work this morning. I hit a lot better iron shots today, and I'm looking forward to next week.

 Q. What are you guys going to work on to prepare for The Masters?
 PHIL MICKELSON: We're going to work on preparing for The Masters.

 Q. Is that as much mental as physical?
 PHIL MICKELSON: It can be, yes. Next week is going to be a severe challenge. It's in an area where I love. The short game is good. Much wider corridors off the tee without the penalty of a hazard.

 Q. Tried to set up this course similar to The Masters. Does it help you prepare for The Masters?
 PHIL MICKELSON: The lack of rough is great and the fairways are great. The greens are different. It's different than that we play on next week. Other than that, it's very good.

 Q. Are you going to stay in Houston this weekend?
 PHIL MICKELSON: Probably just the rest of the day.

 Q. Should people read anything into this?
 PHIL MICKELSON: It's tough, I think. There's been times where I've missed cuts the week before and won. I'm glad to play. I needed to play because I needed after two weeks off to get back out and trying to get more of a scoring. I made some ridiculous mistakes you can't make playing competitive golf. I'm glad I saw it and did it now as opposed to next week. Hopefully I'll get it out of my system and change my mindset on some of these holes.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT