FBR OPEN
January 30, 2009
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Just talk about your round today. Did you have to kind of push things a little bit trying to get back in?
 PHIL MICKELSON: It just didn't come together. I didn't play well. The course is beautiful. It's in great shape, and it's an exciting time here with the Cardinals being in the Super Bowl. But I didn't get that momentum and play well. 
 I'll go home and get some work done over the weekend and see if I can get things on track for San Diego next week. 

 Q. Do you remember what you did the last time you missed the cut here? 
 PHIL MICKELSON: Here in Phoenix? 

 Q. At this tournament. 
 PHIL MICKELSON: I don't. I remember I missed the cut last year at Pebble and I ended up winning the following in LA, and this will give me a few more days to get my game sharp. 
 Again, I didn't feel as far off as the score indicated obviously, but I'll get some good work done this weekend and hopefully come out sharp and ready to play next Thursday in San Diego.

 Q. Did the course play differently than it has in the past?
 PHIL MICKELSON: It's changed every year. Every year it's changed a little bit. But it's in great shape. The greens are beautiful. Pin placements were terrific. Good shots you could get it close. So it was a good challenge, but I just didn't perform.

 Q. Did you make any changes in the off-season, any tinkering with your swing that may have had an effect on you here?
 PHIL MICKELSON: I wouldn't think so. 

 Q. Did you find anything that you have been working on, did you find that any of it came through at least in the first couple days? 
 PHIL MICKELSON: It would be tough to find those spots, but it doesn't feel like it's that far off. I feel like I hit the ball fairly solid but just made a lot of errors here and there. Again, I'll go home and work on it this weekend. I'll have an extra couple of days to get ready for Torrey, a place that I have grown to love and hopefully come out and play well next week. 

 Q. Could you talk a little bit just about maybe a charity deal that you might do here with Justin Timberlake? 
 PHIL MICKELSON: We're trying to do something, but we don't have anything definitive, and it's just not for sure. Until we have something ironed out that we're going to do it for sure, I don't really want to go there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT