HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 10, 2008
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Reflections on the week; not the result you wanted, but your thoughts on the week?
 PHIL MICKELSON: This is really an incredible golf tournament. We had a great time this week. We did a lot of fun things here in China. My wife took our kids over to one of the canal cities and saw just an amazing infrastructure. We've experienced so many interesting things here in China that we haven't seen anywhere else in the world. 
 And in addition to that, I get to play one of the best golf tournaments against one of the strongest fields in golf. So I'm appreciative to HSBC for bringing such high-calibre golf to China.

 Q. I know you said last year that it's important that your children are now of an age where you can take them places and they can begin to appreciate cultures around the world and it's growing, and you can continue to do that?
 PHIL MICKELSON: That's a big factor for me. Now that my kids are old enough to understand and appreciate all of the different cultures and countries that people have to offer, it's been exciting for us to be able to take advantage of that. 

 Q. On the golf side, not quite in the groove today, maybe just couldn't get it going? 
 PHIL MICKELSON: I really struggled striking the ball this week, and I putted very well throughout the week, which kept me in the tournament. And I just kept waiting for it to turn and for it to turn, and unfortunately I had a couple of loose swings, and the out-of-bounds on 7 certainly hurt. But the double-bogey on 15 is what ultimately wiped me out. 

 Q. It was an out-of-bounds, not a lost ball? 
 PHIL MICKELSON: Out-of-bounds, yeah. 

 Q. So you found the ball?
 PHIL MICKELSON: I found the balls. 

 Q. In terms of the overall week, this is a big tournament now, isn't it? 
 PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, it really is. It's one of the premiere events on The European Tour, and I believe the premiere event here in China. It has one of the best fields in all of golf, and credit to HSBC to be so committed to bringing high-level golf here to China. 

 Q. How much does it feel personally to be knocked off the No. 2 spot today? It's not far; you can get it back next week. 
 PHIL MICKELSON: You know, that's not as big a concern right now. I know that next year when we get back into playing every week, it might be something that I think about, but having won this tournament last year, I know somewhat about the points where I was going to lose points if I didn't win. So I knew I needed to win to kind of hold on to that spot.

 Q. And it's hard to win on demand, isn't it? 
 PHIL MICKELSON: It's hard to win any time. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT