FBR OPEN
January 29, 2009
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Can you talk about your round if you would?   
 PHIL MICKELSON: Well, it really wasn't what I was hoping for. I guess that's a good way to say it.  
  
  Q. Early in the week some of the guys were saying that they thought this course was set up a little tougher than it had been in the past. Do you think that was the case?   
 PHIL MICKELSON: I don't know relative to the past. I thought it played very fair. The golf course is in great shape. It's a good, fair test. If you play well, there's some low scores, and if you hit it a little crooked like I did, well, there's some bogeys and doubles, unfortunately.  
  
  Q. Was that the big problem for you today was off the tee?   
 PHIL MICKELSON: Well, yes. I mean, I had three penalty shots. That hurts. But it didn't feel that far off. I felt like I hit the ball pretty solid. I was hitting it hard. I had some good speed. I just didn't have it obviously going very straight.   
 But it doesn't feel as far off as the score indicates. I mean, I know the score is ridiculous, but it doesn't feel bad. I feel like I can come back out tomorrow and shoot a good round and play the weekend. I probably have to shoot about 5-under, but that doesn't feel out of the question, even though the scores first round might look disgusting. But it doesn't feel far off.   
  
  Q. Are you rusty?   
 PHIL MICKELSON: I didn't feel rusty going in. I actually felt pretty good. So I'm a little bit surprised at the way I scored because I felt like I was hitting the ball well, and I felt pretty sharp. But it just obviously didn't -- I didn't put it together today.   
 But again, I think that it's the first round of the year, so obviously I didn't want to start off like that, but I'm going to come out tomorrow and see if I can post a low number and get it going. Again, it doesn't feel that far off. I feel like I hit some good shots, especially towards the end, and I should be able to turn it around tomorrow.   
  
  Q. Did you get any tips from President Bush?   
 PHIL MICKELSON: No, but I sure respect that man. He's sure an amazing individual.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT