THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
September 26, 2008
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   PHIL MICKELSON: I didn't expect to be here at the turn. I didn't think you'd want to speak to me today. 

 Q. What is it in your game that seems like it's clicking on all cylinders this week?
 PHIL MICKELSON: The putter has been very helpful. I've made a lot of putts. The greens are rolling beautifully. I love the type of grass that they have. Although they're a type of Bermuda, they're not anywhere near as grainy as what we're used to. They're the same grass as TPC saw grass. 
 I need to drive it a little bit better. I drove it well the last eight holes and I was able to play them under par, but starting out I didn't drive it as accurately as I would have liked and it cost me.

 Q. The Vardon Trophy is going to be awarded next week. What would something like that mean to you? 
 PHIL MICKELSON: It would be very cool to win that. It shows that you've played consistently well throughout the year, and it would be a great honor. We still have a lot of golf left this weekend that will probably decide it. 

 Q. At the Scottish Open you said you were going to play in Europe. Are you planning to play 11?
 PHIL MICKELSON: I'm not sure yet. You're asking if I'm going to join the European Tour? I'm not sure yet. I may play that many events if you count the four majors and the three World Golf. I mean, may play an additional four or five. 
 I'm not sure exactly how many. I'm not sure on my status as far as becoming a European Tour member, but I'm certainly considering it.

 Q. Do the players understand how that works exactly? Is there a deadline?
 PHIL MICKELSON: Well, they give you paperwork and then you sign saying that you want to be a member. 

 Q. When you look at the leaderboard, there's you, the veteran, and then you've got these kids, Anthony, Sergio, and Camilo right there. In a town that has a gas shortage, is there any concern about running out of gas coming out of last week, or are you still feeling strong?
 PHIL MICKELSON: I know that some guys have felt an emotional letdown this week, and it has been difficult getting the energy to come out and play. But yet when a couple of putts go in and you see a few balls go in the hole and make a few birdies, that energy level comes up quick.

 Q. Anthony Kim and Sergio are paired again tomorrow. Familiar pairing?
 PHIL MICKELSON: It is, yeah. I like the way it worked out last Sunday. That was nice. I've got to go out and try to track both of those guys down. That's not going to be easy. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT