THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
September 28, 2008
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Your thoughts on the final round.  
 PHIL MICKELSON: I thought it was a fun day. The four of us were doing it out there, and there were some birdies on the back side. I didn't make quite enough of them. Fell one shy, but it was a fun day to be in contention. Fun way to finish the year, have it come down to the last shot.   
 Unfortunately I just came up a little bit shy, but I think it was a very exciting finish here with Sergio and Camilo in the playoff.   
  
  Q. Your thoughts on the year, because you are basically shutting it down from here. When you look back at the season...   
 PHIL MICKELSON: There were some ups and downs. I thought that -- the plus side for me was that I played more consistent this year than I have in the past, but I didn't putt like I did this week. I putted great this week, and I need to do that more, because that's a lot of fun, seeing those putts go in.  
  
  Q. Kind of exciting. Not bad to have this much drama for a tournament that wasn't supposed to have any drama.   
 PHIL MICKELSON: I think so. I think it was fun for us to have an exciting finish. It was fun for four guys to come down to the end. As much excitement as we could have, yeah.  
  
  Q. Any changes to the play system you'd like to see for next year?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: I think the guys will work on it because I don't think it was quite right this year. I'm sure they'll tweak it a little bit.  
  
  Q. The European Tour, I guess, is going to be deciding in the next couple days about changing the number of tournaments. Will that affect your plans at all for next year?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: I'm not sure. I'm certainly interested to see if the minimum number of required events gets increased or not, and then that may or may not affect some of my plans.  
  
  Q. Are you looking to keep it where it is, I would assume.   
 PHIL MICKELSON: I'm not really sure. You know, I've got to look at it. But until they decide on what they're going to do, it's hard for me to really know or decide what I'm going to do.  
  
  Q. Next year you've got -- with all the economy and what's going on, there are a lot of banks and financial institutions that are involved in the sponsorships. The commissioner talked with us on Tuesday. Is there a concern that we may see different things going next year in terms of sponsors and events, smaller purses, things like that?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: I'm not sure. I do think that some of our sponsors might be acquired. I think it would be a very real scenario to see Wachovia get acquired here shortly. If that's the case, then the parent company would assume the contract, I would guess, and so we might have different names and titles.   
 Then it's up to us, the players, to try to prove to the sponsors that this is the best avenue to spend their marketing dollars. We as players need to make sure that we provide the best product.   
  
  Q. (Question regarding the off-season).   
 PHIL MICKELSON: It will be, yeah. I think we as a Tour need to all get on the same page and be supportive, because, again, we've got to present a great product to keep our sponsors interested.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT