THE RYDER CUP
September 19, 2008
Anthony Kim
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   PHIL MICKELSON: It was a fun day for us. I thought being 3-down in both matches, we played with a lot of heart and emotion today to be able to pull the halve and win out. We have a lot of work to do.  
 We have three more matches, and fortunate that the U.S. has gotten off to a good start. We have a lot of work to do. This is a fun day. I love playing with this guy right here. Anthony has got this youthfulness to him and he has a lot of game and we had a lot of fun.  
  
  Q. You had a great shot at 14, you converted and made birdie putts. That was completing a run of birdies from you guys, nothing went wrong after that.   
 ANTHONY KIM: Well, I wasn't completing a run for us. It was a completing a run for Phil, and fortunaely, I kicked one in, and he held me up when I wasn't playing so well. So it was a really fun day.  
  
  Q. You had a really good experience in 2005 at the Walker Cup and you said it was the most exciting round of golf that you have ever played. Has this lived up to the hype?   
 ANTHONY KIM: It's definitely lived up to the hype.   
  
  Q. You two played brilliantly today.   
 PHIL MICKELSON: We had a lot of fun today. I love playing with this guy. He has a lot of talent, a lot of game. It was fun for me to get it that youthful exuberance today. It's infectious. We played with a lot of heart and emotion. We were down in both matches and came back to win one and tied the other. It was a hard, fun day.   
  
  Q. How were you feeling this morning, surely a bit nervous in?  
 ANTHONY KIM: I was definitely a bit nervous but when you have Phil Mickelson on your side you can rely on him to hit some quality shots and it was a great day.   
  
  Q. Can you tell the people listening at home how hard it is to get a point?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: With the two-time British Open Champion and PGA Champion making putts from everywhere, it was extremely difficult and he played very well. He hit some wonderful putts, and it kept taking momentum from us, because we had chances to go up and up and he would make these 20-footers and it was very difficult.   
  
  Q. You two look like the pair to beat, or so were saying all the commentators?  
 ANTHONY KIM: I think we are going to be pretty tough to beat. We are having a great time out there and when you're having a great time you're going to play good golf. We are looking forward to the next couple of matches.  
  
  Q. Any plans to relax?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: We are going to go support our final group, and it's been a good day for the U.S.   
  
  Q. Having fun on the golf course, you guys are having an absolute blast even when you got 3-down.   
 PHIL MICKELSON: It wasn't as much fun at 3 down as when we were 1-up. We had a great time today and we had a lot of fun together. His youthfulness, his excitement, exuberance is infectious and I was very fortunate to be able to spend the day with us. We had a lot of fun playing together as partners and we are looking forward to doing it again.   
  
  Q. And you were running through the crowd getting all of them, too.   
 ANTHONY KIM: Like Zinger said, they are our 13th man and lucky to have them on our side. It's been tremendous how much they have supported us, and if we can keep playing some good golf, I think they are going to be behind us the whole way, and hopefully lead us to a Cup.   
  
  Q. What's that like for you, like coming up 17, Phil makes that big putt, you've got the crowd pumping up there, what are you feeling; you look jacked up, too.   
 ANTHONY KIM: I'm jacked up to see his ball go in the hole. It's something that we don't get to do very often, play for a team and pull for each other, and we are having a great time doing it.  
  
  Q. How does it feel to see the U.S. doing so well the first day?   
 PHIL MICKELSON: It's great for us to get off to a good start and it's also great for us because it gets the crowd involved and excited and it gives us energy; we feed off of that. When we were down when some of these matches were down, we were able to hang in there and we fought hard and we were able to come back.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT