DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
August 29, 2008
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Defending champion Phil Mickelson, in with a round of 69. Is it a score you're disappointed with or one that you're satisfied with?
 PHIL MICKELSON: Well, that's not a hard question to answer. The scores are low because you've got to shoot low out here. 2-under wasn't great. I fought hard. I felt like I could finish strong, be right in it, but I let a couple shots go in the end. I've got to get out here tomorrow and get off to a hot round.

 Q. I saw you standing over on the 18th green looking at that leaderboard. Are you surprised at how low the leaders went?
 PHIL MICKELSON: I'm not. There's some holes out here that you can take advantage of and hit wedges in. The fairways are running out so we're having shorter irons in. But it's fun to have this. It gets old getting beat up every single week with rough up to your knees and just hacking it out, so it's fun to have a week like this where the scores are low.

 Q. You opened with 70 last year, came back to win. Is it a different mental approach for you because it's the playoffs, or is it still 72 holes of stroke play?
 PHIL MICKELSON: No, it's still 72 holes of stroke play. It's the same thing. You just have to play good over four rounds. A lot can happen in the next three rounds. 

 Q. It looked like you were awfully close to possibly getting a good score out there today. 
 PHIL MICKELSON: It was close. Again, if I would have played the last couple holes like I should have, it would have saved me two shots. I thought 4-under would have been a decent round. But I've got to get a hot round tomorrow after shooting only 2-under today.

 Q. When you come in as defending champion, do you put any added pressure on yourself to play well?
 PHIL MICKELSON: Maybe a little bit. I certainly feel good on this golf course. I love it. I think it's a great track. I think it's the best TPC we have in my opinion. It's a fun course to play. I think this week is perfect because we've been getting beat up every week with knee-high rough and ridiculously fast, firm greens, and now to have a week where you can score low is fun. 

 Q. The conditions from what we've gotten from all players that it was very gettable today, would you agree?
 PHIL MICKELSON: Yes, the course could have been had. It's fun to have a great course setup like this because we've been getting beat up so much lately that it's nice to have a course where we can score low.

 Q. Have you played with Anthony Kim before competitively?
 PHIL MICKELSON: I've played with Anthony and looking forward to having a partnership with him at the Ryder Cup, which will be fun.

 Q. How about Justin Leonard?
 PHIL MICKELSON: I love playing with Justin. He has been the link from our last winning Ryder Cup team. He hasn't played since '99, and I think he's going to bring that winning inspiration.

 Q. A lot of the guys in the media talk about how great you were when you were young. Anthony Kim is kind of in that same age now. How would you assess the kind of golfer he is?
 PHIL MICKELSON: He's a tremendous talent. He's been winning a lot of tournaments, and it's obvious when you watch him play how good he is.

 Q. After winning last year do you have the confidence that you can go low here?
 PHIL MICKELSON: It's out there, and tomorrow I think when we get off early and the greens are smooth, maybe I'll get a few more putts to roll in, and that will be my opportunity to go low.

 Q. Walking up 18, you had a big smile on your face and you were talking and looking at the plane going overhead. Is that a reflection of just a good day of golf, liking the course?
 PHIL MICKELSON: It's fun playing golf here. It's fun playing in the northeast in the New England area, and the course is terrific. It was a fun day even though I didn't play well, but it was still a fun day.

 Q. Are you going to the Red Sox this weekend?
 PHIL MICKELSON: I'm going to try to, yes. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT