THE BARCLAYS
August 23, 2008
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. How was your round today?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: I shot 1-over today. It wasn't the best round, so I need to play a little bit better tomorrow and the rest of the Playoffs.   
  
  Q. Birdieing the first few holes the first two days -- guess that's why they call those risk/reward holes I guess.   
 PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, I just had a mishap there and hit a good 3-wood, and I left it short of the pin and had an uphill chip. But it's in the rough and the rough is pretty thick around the greens here. I left it just short of the green in the rough again. And this time it was pretty deep in some kind of swirly grass and I tried to hit a little 64-degree wedge and it came out, and I heard it ding my club on the follow-through. I didn't really feel it. It didn't look like it really affected the shot, but I kind of heard it or felt it, and so that was a penalty stroke and I missed the putt.   
  
  Q. Before the tournament, you said that you played well in stretches and just haven't been able to really put it together.   
 PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah.   
  
  Q. Any further sense of why that is?   
 PHIL MICKELSON: I don't have a great answer for you, because I feel like I've been driving the ball pretty good. I feel like I've hit some pretty good iron shots. I feel like I've made some decent putts and hit some decent chips, but I'm also just not getting the ball in the hole. I'm not scoring and I don't have a great answer for you.   
  
  Q. Is it more frustrating than when you had a very identifiable flaw that you know you need to correct?   
 PHIL MICKELSON: Maybe. The difference is that I just know that if I'm patient, it will eventually turn.   
 You know, we all go through these spells where you're playing well, but you're not getting out of it what you want. I feel like if I'm just patient enough, eventually it will turn.   
  
  Q. Being so far behind, are you just looking at tomorrow as a chance to play better and get ready for the rest of the tournaments?   
 PHIL MICKELSON: Yes, and the other thing is, the way the points system is set up over these four weeks, every round and every shot and every position matters, because of the variance in points.  
 So it may not look it this week; but if I can fight out and play a good round tomorrow and move up and finish in the Top-10 or 20 down the road if I happen to win, it will give me more of a cushion; or if I happen to play better the next couple of weeks, it will better position me.   
  
  Q. Are you a fan of the short par 4s, as a rule?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, I really like them.   
  
  Q. What are the pros and cons, if any, as you see? What do you like about them?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: Well, I've always enjoyed the challenge of the short par 4s, and most of them are great risk/reward holes.   
 So it's not a bad thing to hit wedges into a par 4 every now and then. It's not a bad thing to have a birdie hole. You don't have to just beat us up every hole.   
 I think that we've gotten in this mode in the tournaments that we play where harder -- the whole point is to make every golf course harder, harder, harder, but that's not all better. And these mixture of holes where you can reach them, holes like what we did at next week's tournament in Boston, No. 4, I think that's actually made the golf course better. Even though we might shoot one or two more under par to win than we would normally, I don't see why that's a bad thing.   
 I think it's been a real plus. I like what the trend has now been to have a greater mixture of holes.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT