PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 10, 2008
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Can you sum up the week?   
 PHIL MICKELSON: It was an interesting week for everybody. I thought that it came down to an exciting finish. We don't know the results yet, but it's been kind of a shootout here at the end, so I think that's good for the tournament; that there were a bunch of guys right there, and it seemed like, again, an exciting finish.  
  
  Q. How about for you?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: For me I would have liked to obviously play better, but had a good week. Had an enjoyable time here in Michigan, and interesting weather. I didn't expect it to be cool. I thought it was going to be warm the whole time. I think we all did.   
 But had my up-and-downs, had a little go of it early in the round today and tried to make a move.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about The Ryder Cup now, a little different team without Tiger, and how do you like the American Team?   
 PHIL MICKELSON: Well, I don't really know the team yet because we've got four picks coming in a few weeks. I think it's open for guys to get hot in the next three weeks and if somebody can show that they are playing well, they can be picked, and it could be somebody that hasn't done anything this year but comes out of the crowd.  
 So the team has not been quite set yet. I'll be interested to see how the points finish up today. It's going to be difficult, obviously, when we don't have the best player in the world; it will be a challenge, given that we have not had the best record. I don't think anybody expects us to do that well.  
 However, I'm optimistic that our team is going to play well and I love the fact that The Ryder Cup is right in the middle of the FedExCup. I think we are all going to be sharp and on top of our games.  
  
  Q. Can you talk about the majors slipping away again this year, and also your mind-set going into the next phase, starting at Ridgewood?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: Well, we have a long wait now for the next major, the Masters, but in the meantime we have a pretty exciting five-week stretch here with four FedExCup events and The Ryder Cup.   
 So although the majors have passed and only four guys were able to capture majors, in fact, might only be three if Padraig wins, we still have a lot to play for here in the next month and a half. So we are all trying to keep our games sharp, and although I'll take this week off from playing the TOUR, I'll be working on my game trying to get ready for the Barclays.  
  
  Q. What will you work on?   
 PHIL MICKELSON: I'll spend a lot of time on short game. I let a lot of shots slide around the greens, so I'll spend time trying to get that dialed in.   
  
  Q. You were able to get in contention, how disappointing was it to fall off?   
 PHIL MICKELSON: I was able to take advantage of some of the birdie holes, I made three birdies in the first four holes, but once we got past six, it was a tough, tough course. The next birdie hole really wasn't till 12. And I ended up making a couple bogeys, but it was a tough final round, and I thought even par was a good round, but obviously not a good round coming from as far back as I was.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT