WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 2, 2008
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   PHIL MICKELSON: I'm excited that I'm tied for the lead going into the final round. I think it'll be a fun shootout, there's four guys right there and then there's a big grouping four shots back. So I think that we're all in good position. I feel like I've played well the first three rounds and I'm looking forward to a nice shootout tomorrow.

 Q. Tell me about that birdie on 16. That was a tremendous go for the green in two. 
 PHIL MICKELSON: Well, they moved the tee up 50 yards to give guys or tempt guys to go for it, and I hit a good drive that was low and it ran down the hill, I only had 234 to carry the water, so of course I was going to go for it. I hit a hybrid into the back bunker and had a pretty easy bunker shot.

 Q. You didn't drive the ball particularly well early on in the round. Did you do something to improve it?
 PHIL MICKELSON: I made a slight adjustment in my setup. I've been driving it great, I've been playing great, and I was just a little bit off. I was missing fairways four or five yards, and then I missed it big on 11, and on 13 I missed it big. I made a slight adjustment in my setup and I was able to get it right back on track.

 Q. You've won major championships but yet you haven't won a WGC. What would it mean to you to win tomorrow?
 PHIL MICKELSON: Well, it would be cool. It's going to be a big challenge with four guys being right there and a number of guys right behind us. So I'm not really thinking about what it would mean. I still have to go out and shoot a pretty low round tomorrow with these guys that are playing some good golf. 

 Q. You made an adjustment in the middle of the back nine. What was it?
 PHIL MICKELSON: I was just getting misaligned in my setup and it was affecting my swing. If you're misaligned you've got to make a compensation. I had been swinging great this last week. Coming here I was really excited, I swung it well the first two days. Today was a little bit off, missing fairways a few yards, and then I started missing it big on 11 and 13 so I made an adjustment and turned it around, so I hit some good shots coming in.

 Q. Trading birdies with Vijay on 16, I mean, this is what the people come to see, right?
 PHIL MICKELSON: It was fun, yeah. We both birdied 15, we both birdied 16, and I thought that both of us played okay, played pretty good. We could have been better, could have been worse. Tomorrow will be a fun shootout with four guys right there.

 Q. You started with a bogey, he had the bogey on 17, you had the bogey on 18. Is it a hard course to keep a clean card on?
 PHIL MICKELSON: It is, because if you hit some poor shots it can be difficult to recover. But if you hit it well, you can play aggressively, you can play for birdies and you'll make a number of birdies and pars, but if you miss a few shots it is tough to recover.

 Q. You opened with two rounds in the 60s, you've done that three times this year, two of the times you've won, one time you lost in a playoff, so sounds like you're clicking pretty much on all cylinders?
 PHIL MICKELSON: Well, I'm excited about how I've been playing. I'm starting to really play well, feel good with the putter, and even when I miss putts now I've at least hit them solid and maybe I didn't read them right or what have you, so I feel really good on the greens, and I'm looking forward to tomorrow's final round. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT