THE 147TH OPEN
July 20, 2018
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Just give us your thoughts on today.  
PHIL MICKELSON: It was a fun day.  I played totally different from yesterday with the rain and the softer conditions.  It wasn't soft, but it was a lot softer.  I had a good round.  I left a few out there.  But I made it to the weekend, and you'll never know what's going to happen out here.   
 Q.  Looking forward to tomorrow?  
PHIL MICKELSON: I'm looking forward to playing the weekend here at The Open.  The course is just set up beautifully, and you never know if guys get off to a good hot start early on in the round if they make a move up the leaderboard.   
 Q.  Just one or two bad holes maybe?  
PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, I just keep making just a few too many mistakes and have left way too many shots out there on the course in the first couple rounds for no good reason.  It's frustrating, but, again, I love the challenge of it, so hopefully it will turn around for tomorrow, and I can make a move.   
 Q.  The course has changed quite a bit since yesterday?  
PHIL MICKELSON: It changed throughout the day entirely, and it changes the way you are trying to attack the course or play conservative.  It's just a fun test.   
 Q.  Would you have taken level par before you went out there?  
PHIL MICKELSON: You know, I had it 3-under through five, so I don't know if I'm all ecstatic about it, but not much I can do about it now but come back tomorrow and try to make a move.   
 Q.  You're not out of it, are you?  
PHIL MICKELSON: No, you never know.  A lot of strange things happen here, especially with the weather.  It may or may not come in.  We've seen a lot of crazy things in this tournament take place.   
 Q.  So you play with Kodaira today, and this is the second time for you this year.  So do you have some information on his game style or something?  
PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, he's a very good player.  He won at Hilton Head earlier this year.  Very solid, steady golfer.  It's great to see him make the -- successfully play so well here in the U.S.  Not this week, but yeah.   
 Q.  And he learned your game very, very much, especially around the green, because of the Masters week.  So you play match play with him.  
PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, he's got a great short game, so most everybody out here now has really done a good job of it.  But Kodaira-san has a wonderful short game.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT