BARCLAYS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 10, 2008
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Thoughts on the day?
 PHIL MICKELSON: The golf course played great, it is in great shape. It was soft and we had lift, clean and place which was ideal for scoring but I just didn't get the ball in the hole. I hit a lot of good shots but I just didn't capitalise on some putts and let a good round slide a little bit but I fought hard at the end to keep it around par and I feel that if I go out tomorrow and shoot a good round, I should be able to get right back in it for the weekend.

 Q. It was a day of ifs and buts then?
 PHIL MICKELSON: Yes it was and that happens at times. After a three week lay off, sometimes the first round I have trouble getting the ball in the hole but I am looking forward to tomorrow's round and I will come out on smooth putting surfaces and maybe I can get that putter going and make some putts.

 Q. You are not that too far away from a 65 or a 66?
 PHIL MICKELSON: It didn't feel like it was too far away and I think that tomorrow I can get it down there in the low 60s and get right back in it.

 Q. Are you bitten to death by the midges around the course?
 PHIL MICKELSON: The last couple of holes by the Loch seemed to have more bugs but also when the wind died down I started to notice it. When the wind was up today there was no problems.

 Q. High points of the round?
 PHIL MICKELSON: I hit a good shot on the sixth, the par five, to make birdie. I thought I hit a lot of good shots but I just didn't get the putts to go in so tomorrow will be another day. I know I am hitting it well so if I can just get a few putts in I'll be right back in it.

 Q. Do the greens spike up?
 PHIL MICKELSON: No they weren't bad at all and I saw a lot of putts go in from my partners and a lot of mine came right up by the edge and had chances but I just didn't get the right speed or the right read. But I thought the course was playing excellent.

 Q. Can you give us your impressions of Ross, who won by seven last week?
 PHIL MICKELSON: I saw how good he could be in China, how well he strikes it. He doesn't have very many big misses and I don't think I have ever seen him hit it way off line. He makes a lot of good putts and I can see why he has had so much success already.

 Q. You might see him again at Valhalla?
 PHIL MICKELSON: Perhaps.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT