U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 13, 2008
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Do you feel at all disappointed about the way you played today?
 PHIL MICKELSON: Of course. It was a tough day for me today. I thought that the course was set up as fair as I've ever seen it. If you play well you can shoot a number, and I didn't hit enough fairways today. I've got to hit the balls in the fairway. When I do I'm able to play the course effectively. I'm able to make some birdies, make easy pars. When I don't, it's been very tough.

 Q. The round never seemed to get going for you. You made the birdie and then the next one was -- with the birdies, especially on the front side there when you got it to plus 2?
 PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah. You know, it was, again, I didn't get anything going, you're right. And made some good pars. And when I made a birdie I followed it with a bogey. And I didn't get the momentum of the round. 
 It was tough to finish with two bogeys, because I fought hard to keep it 2-over. I had some birdie holes with 7, 8 and 9 coming up. The bogey on 6 and 9 hurt. 
 I'm at 4-over and I'm going to come back tomorrow and try to get this thing back to even par and should have a chance on the weekend.

 Q. When you made the up-and-down on 3, did you think things were going to turn around at that point?
 PHIL MICKELSON: I was just fighting. I was fighting to stay in it. And was only 2-over at the time. There was a bogey on 4. Again, every time I did something good I didn't keep the momentum going. But again, I'm only 4-over par, and a good round tomorrow gets me in it for Sunday, and that's the goal.

 Q. One last thing. The crowds were enormous. They estimated around 60,000 today. Did this feel anything like when you played at Bethpage before?
 PHIL MICKELSON: I think that every U.S. Open has amazing crowds. I think people really appreciate our national championship and come out and support it. And the people here in San Diego have been tremendous because. We had a great showing today. We had some great support and it was really fun for us to play in that pairing. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT