THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 5, 2018
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You've got to be pretty happy with this opening round at 4-under, how satisfied are you with your play today?
PHIL MICKELSON: It was good.  I hit a lot of good shots.  I drove it well, hit some good iron shots.  I didn't score as well as I probably could have.  There are some low scores out there.  I hate missing the one on the last.  But I had a good, solid start, and hopefully come out tomorrow and get hot on the greens, because the course is there for the taking if you get hot on the greens.
Q. We haven't seen you in a few weeks.  Tell us what you've been up to and how you prepared for this round?
PHIL MICKELSON: I stayed -- my family and I stayed another week in New York after The Open, and had a great time, then we've been back home hanging out there.  So it's been a nice summer.  It's great to have our oldest, Amanda, back in town to see her.  So we've just been doing that.  And then I started working with Andrew about four or five days ago.
Q. I think it was early in your round there was a weird situation with the drop and out of bounds.  Do you recall that situation?
PHIL MICKELSON: I hit it out of bounds.  I just wasn't sure it was out.  So before I went and played the provisional, I called an official over.  I thought it was and it was.  But I just wanted to double-check.
Q. It looked like it wasn't marked out of bounds, that's why we were confused.
PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, on the sheet they give us, it was out of bounds.  A road with white dots.  I just didn't see the white dots, so we found them.  It was out.  It happens.
Q. This weekend then you head over to the Scottish Open ahead of the Open.  What is the flow and what kinds of things are you looking forward to working on and getting up before you head over?
PHIL MICKELSON: I'm going to head over Sunday night and head over to Paris to play the Ryder Cup course.  Then I'll play Gullane on Tuesday, and go to Carnoustie on Wednesday.  So I've got a full few practice rounds scheduled before the Scottish Open.  But fortunately we've played the Scottish Open at Gullane before.  I know the course a little bit, and did I don't have to spend a ton of time to know the course.  It will be a busy few days, but I also enjoy it over there.
Q. I'd say.  You had three missed cuts in your first three starts here, tied for 20th finish last year.  What do you think about this course?
PHIL MICKELSON: The challenge for me here is that it's at altitude, so the irons go quite a bit farther, and I had a difficult time judging our iron distances.  But starting last year with that Trackman device, we're able to get much more precise yardages.  So my distance control with my irons has been a lot better last year and this year.  So I expect to have a good next few days.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT