MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 13, 2008
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   PHIL MICKELSON: I was hoping obviously to make more of a run than I did, but it was a tough day today, and I felt like I had to fight pretty hard to keep it around par. But I certainly had some chances that could have brought it lower. But it just doesn't look like it would have been enough anyways.

 Q. It's not good enough, though, but pretty good today? 
 PHIL MICKELSON: I think it would have been a good round let's say Thursday or Friday, but when you're far back you've got to shoot something in the 60s, probably mid-60s, and it just wasn't enough.

 Q. How much does this course change when you have the windy conditions? 
 PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, it's a lot more challenging golf course, but the thing about it is that you can still get your way around even with the wind if you miss it in the right spots. You can get up and down and salvage par. It's still a very fair test. I think there was a couple rounds in the 60s this morning, so a couple guys under par, too. So I don't think that it's unfair by any means.

 Q. When you look back, what makes you shake your head and say if only this had been a little better?
 PHIL MICKELSON: You know, I thought that I struck the ball pretty well this week, and it's encouraging that playing the majors I'm striking the ball better than probably I ever have. My chipping came around this week. It hasn't been where I wanted it the last couple weeks. It came around; I thought I chipped very well.
 The last piece is I'll spend a little more time on putting and try to get that dialed in. I think I've been neglecting it a little bit working on the ball-striking aspect. When I come back in a couple weeks hopefully I'll have that straightened out.

 Q. I know you just finished, but when do you start thinking about Torrey Pines? 
 PHIL MICKELSON: Well, I've been playing practice rounds sporadically for some time now, so it's already in the back of my mind. Growing up there, that tournament means a lot to me, living in San Diego playing high school matches there at Torrey. I've been out there a bunch and I've been thinking about it a lot.

 Q. What about the par-3s? It seemed like those were tough for you this week. 
 PHIL MICKELSON: It might have been. I haven't looked back on that part yet. You know, I hit two good shots today and made bogeys on 4 and 16, putting them in a tough spot and three-putting, where another three feet and it could have rolled down and I could have had a good opportunity both times. Some of it might have been play but some of it might have just been unfortunate.

 Q. Do you know Immelman very well?
 PHIL MICKELSON: I don't. I don't know him that well, no.

 Q. Did you think we were going to see the lowest scores of the week today?
 PHIL MICKELSON: Most likely. The pins were the easiest pins on the golf course. Almost every pin was the easiest pin that we had today, trying to get there to be some low scores. But it's still just a little tough for them.

 Q. Nobody has really been able to do anything out there today. How would you explain that?
 PHIL MICKELSON: It's just a tough golf course. It's so much longer hitting mid-irons, you just can't go after a lot of the pins that are on elevated parts of the green. Today they were in low spots. They were the easiest pins on almost every single hole today, and it was still a tough test. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT