MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2008
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Good finish, talk about the day.
 PHIL MICKELSON: I would love to be in the lead. You always like having shots in hand. But I would have had to kind of press the issue at some spots and I didn't want to do that yet. So I'm pleased that I have a good chance going into the weekend. 

 Q. You birdied 2, 3, and 8 on the front side. Tell me about those. 
 PHIL MICKELSON: I hit 3-wood off the tee on 2 to stay short of the bunker, because that's a pin where really on the green you're not going to get close to that hole, so I was trying to play short right of that bunker and chip up. And I did. And I hit a good shot to three feet and made that. 
 Number 3, I hit driver to about 35 feet from the hole and flipped it up there three feet and made that. So it was a nice start. 
 Then number 8 I was able to get there, but I missed it left, which was actually okay to that pin. And hit it about 8, 10 feet and made that.

 Q. The one at 17 had to give you a big boost because you were kind of on a par stretch there for eight holes. Tell me about that putt on 17. 
 PHIL MICKELSON: It was not going -- it was going to move a little left, right at the hole. And I really had putted well all day except until I got to 15 and I missed a 4-footer that I felt I should have made. I felt like it was a great putting round until then and to make that one on 17 was a big boost.

 Q. I was looking back, when you won here in 2004 you were fifth through two days, when you won in 2006 you were fourth through two days, and now it looks like you're going to be somewhere around third. Its a position that seems like it's worked for you in the past. 
 PHIL MICKELSON: Well at least I'm working in the right direction, but I got a long ways to go and there's a bunch, a few players ahead of me and there's a bunch of strong players right behind me. I think it's going to be an exciting weekend.

 Q. How much do you believe in fate and the way your tournament started on Thursday at the very first?
 PHIL MICKELSON: Well, that was nice to see that one go in. That was a two or three shot swing right there. I would have had a tough up-and-down for bogey. 
 But what was interesting was Bones and I have chuckled because in 2004 when I hadn't won a Major and I came to 13 and hit a shot that we were sure went in the creek and it stayed up and I ended up making four. And I've hit two shots now, yesterday and today, that should have been in the creek that both of them stayed up. And so it's, I'm kind of using that as an omen as well. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT