MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 10, 2008
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. A lot of guys talked about how tough the course played. 
 PHIL MICKELSON: You know, I think anything under par is fine. I thought the course played very fair. We got it where some breeze kind of died down the last hour or two, and it was pretty nice the back side. It would have been nice to take advantage of it, but I just ended up with some pars, which was fine. It's a nice start. This course is very difficult now in the last few years, so anything par or better is always a pretty good round. 

 Q. Given the way you're striking the ball right now, what should 1-under feel like today?
 PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, I probably could have been quite a bit lower had I made anything. But I'll get the speed dialed in. My speed was off quite a bit. I was hitting it well long and leaving good putts that I had to be aggressive on, I was leaving those short. I'll have to get the speed a little bit better.

 Q. Was there anything different today from the practice rounds?
 PHIL MICKELSON: I didn't think so because they were wet when I played Tuesday. But no, they're not any different than what we expect. 

 Q. Talk about the 1st hole. 
 PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, I don't think it was going to stay on that top shelf. That was probably a two-shot swing right there. Yeah, it was at least a two-shot swing, possibly three.

 Q. Did you think it was going in? 
 PHIL MICKELSON: It hopped a little bit, but it tracked nicely. Pelz would have been proud I left the pin in. 

 Q. How does your game feel? 
 PHIL MICKELSON: You know, it feels -- the game feels pretty easy right now. I feel like I've got pretty good control over where it's going, but I will have to get a little bit better speed on these greens. I've putted them well in the past. I should be okay.

 Q. Was darkness at all affecting you guys?
 PHIL MICKELSON: Not really, no, we were okay. We could see fine the last couple holes. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT