MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 12, 2008
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Your thoughts today, Phil?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: It was a disappointing day, obviously. I didn't play very well, and it was a day where there were some low scores out there. The greens were soft, the rain softened the course, and I thought there were some low scores, I just didn't shoot one of them.  
  
  Q. What did you hit at 16?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: I hit 8-iron.  
  
  Q. The moment you hit it you didn't like it?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, you can't miss it right there, and I know that. You just have to hit it left and try to make par. And there were two susceptible pins on 17 and 18 where I could have tried to make birdies, but I put it in a spot where the best I could do was probably 4, and I played for that, and I just three-putted.   
  
  Q. Nobody expects rounds like this out of you. Was there anything in the round that didn't feel right for you?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: I felt really good. I got off to a good start, making a good five-, six-footer on 1, downhill quick putt, a made a good 15-, 20-footer for par on 3. The putter started feeling good, hit some good shots. 4-iron in on 4, almost made that.  
 I don't know where it really came from because I felt like I was hitting the ball well, I was hitting some good putts. I don't know what happened. I certainly had a little misstep on 8, but gosh, it didn't feel bad. I felt like I was going to have a good round today. I don't know what to say.  
  
  Q. How bad was the break on 18?  
 PHIL MICKELSON: It was unlucky. It was going to be close. It would have been a tap-in birdie, but still, I shouldn't have three-putted. It may have cost me a shot but it shouldn't have cost me two.  
  
  Q. Were you struggling to get some momentum?   
 PHIL MICKELSON: If I knock that putt in I'm back to even for the round, which was the goal. I thought I hit it closer than that, and when I get up there, I thought I was two feet and instead I was six. I didn't really putt those that well today, so when I missed that -- that could have been a big momentum booster. I would have gotten a 5, would have been right there and back to even for the tournament, which is kind of a psychological boost. Even for the day, I mean.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT