SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 3, 2008
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. How did you do today? What happened out there?
 PHIL MICKELSON: You know, I actually drove it pretty good today, but the last hole I tried to hit a hybrid and blocked it and hit one in the hazard on the par-5. For the most part, I thought I kept it in play well and had a pretty solid day. I didn't make any putts, and the double the last hole kind of sucked. 

 Q. With the wind picking up like this, does it pose a problem for you?
 PHIL MICKELSON: The wind made the course play tough, but because it's set up like Augusta next week and you could miss shots and not be in heavy rough, there were some birdies out there, and unfortunately I didn't make my share. But come out tomorrow morning and see if I can make some ground on the leaders.

 Q. Weather be a big difference tomorrow morning?
 PHIL MICKELSON: I don't know what the wind will be in the morning, but whether it's blowing or not, there's birdies out there. You can make putts and shoot some low scores as we saw today with 9-under.

 Q. We're expecting some heavy rain tomorrow. Did you see that?
 PHIL MICKELSON: I didn't know that, but that would soften the course up a little bit and probably make for even more birdies.

 Q. Had a lot of wind this year on Tour. Getting used to it or tired of it?
 PHIL MICKELSON: We have had some wind. It's been fine, I guess. Everybody has got to play it. You get some good breaks and bad breaks. I had a great break in L.A. where I was on the end of that tee time spree. It has been a little windy.

 Q. Phil, tell us about how the crowd has received you here and everything.
 PHIL MICKELSON: It's been a fun week so far. I've really enjoyed playing here. This is my first time on this golf course, and I really enjoy playing it. I think it's very well done. It's in incredible shape. The setup really makes it a great spot for guys to come here and get ready for next week. And so I've been very impressed with that and look forward to the next three days.

 Q. Are you satisfied with today's performance?
 PHIL MICKELSON: Am I satisfied with today's round? No. I'm really disappointed. Doubling the last hole doesn't sit well, and I had a number of opportunities to get it to 5, 6, 7-under par, which would have been a great round and just didn't do it. I've got a lot to do the next few rounds. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT