NORTHERN TRUST OPEN
February 13, 2008
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  So how did it feel today?   
 PHIL MICKELSON:  Felt good.  I had a nice day.  Played with three great guys that enjoyed it.  The golf course is in terrific shape.  Riviera is probably the best I've seen it now.  I've missed a few years here, but probably the best I've seen it.  Looking forward for the week.   
  
  Q.  Amy out there helping you with the greens?   
 PHIL MICKELSON:  Yeah, she gave me some good pointers last year on the way certain putts break, a little more, a little less and same thing this year, and I'm hoping to take that knowledge and capitalize on the greens.   
  
  Q.  How was your commute today?   
 PHIL MICKELSON:  Interesting.   
  
  Q.  Did you get fogged or something?   
 PHIL MICKELSON:  We got fogged in in Santa Monica.   
  
  Q.  You couldn't land?   
 PHIL MICKELSON:  No.  I had to fly up to Burbank.   
  
  Q.  How close were you guys to landing or was it not at all?  Had you gone the direction of Santa Monica and got called off at the last minute?   
 PHIL MICKELSON:  No, it was below minimum before we took off and the same when we got here.   
  
  Q.  Were you thinking back to Dallas last year going here we go again?   
 PHIL MICKELSON:  No, that was different.  That one, I didn't have any options.  I could have gotten to Burbank and gotten here.   
  
  Q.  So your time only changed, what, about like an hour?   
 PHIL MICKELSON:  Yeah, probably an hour, because it took 50 minutes to drive from there to here.  It took another 20 minutes in the air to get circled around and so forth.   
  
  Q.  It only took you 50 minutes?  That's pretty good.   
 PHIL MICKELSON:  When you know the back streets, you know ...  (chuckling).   
  
  Q.  Who was driving?   
 PHIL MICKELSON:  The tournament.   
  
  Q.  Did you have to clear this with anybody to change your time or move it around?   
 PHIL MICKELSON:  John switched.  Daly switched with me, so it worked out well.  I probably would have made it.  I got here right at 11:10, probably would have made it, but it was good to have a little extra time.   
  
  Q.  Warm up on the range for a little bit?   
 PHIL MICKELSON:  Yeah.   
  
  Q.  Had to tape your show, too, your Callaway show?   
 PHIL MICKELSON:  Yeah, yeah.  I probably would have skipped that.   
  
  Q.  Can you talk about your putting and what you did this week, earlier this week, and kind of where you are with it in general?   
 PHIL MICKELSON:  You know, I'm really not worried about putting because I putted really well the weekend of Phoenix to get me into the playoff.  I made a lot of 5-, 6-footers.  So I'm not really worried about it, even though I didn't make anything last week and it was frustrating.   
 I had a great couple of practice sessions, I did my drills like normal and it feels pretty good.  So I'm not really concerned there.   
  
  Q.  Putting just comes and goes, but was it in any way attributed to missing the time with your illness in January when you didn't get a chance to practice as much?   
 PHIL MICKELSON:  No.  I think it was just my speed was off a little bit.  Just a fraction here or there.  I'm really not that concerned about it.  Again, I thought I putted well the weekend of Phoenix.  Certainly the first two days wasn't great but putted well on the weekend.   
  
  Q.  Is it important to get a win on the West Coast, just because you play so well here and it gets momentum going; you won the Masters in '06 without winning, you probably had some seconds and third.   
 PHIL MICKELSON:  I like it, because I like getting off to a good start.  I like the West Coast, and I like the momentum that comes with winning.  But I'm not going to put extra pressure on myself, but I feel like I'm playing well enough to have a chance on the weekend.   
  
  Q.  What can you tell from putting at Pebble on those greens?   
 PHIL MICKELSON:  They were the best they have ever been.  They were the best they have ever been.  But I was just a little bit off and I'm not quite sure what, because my practice sessions have been going very well.   
  
  Q.  You thought it might have been you weren't seeing the line?   
 PHIL MICKELSON:  Yeah, the line, the speed was off, they just weren't going in.   
  
  Q.  What about today?   
 PHIL MICKELSON:  I had a good day with the putter today, yeah.  The greens look great.  I love poa annua.  I've putted well at Pebble in the past and I've putted well here at Riviera last year.  I love poa annua, I grew up on it, so it's a grass I'm very comfortable with it.   
  
  Q.  Do you work with Pelz this week at all on your putting?   
 PHIL MICKELSON:  We talk on the phone.  But there really wasn't anything technical that needed to be changed.   
  
  Q.  Looking ahead to the Masters, sorry to ask you about that, but can you talk about the second cut and has that made the course more difficult?   
 PHIL MICKELSON:  No, it's made the course easier without question because of all the trees that now line the fairways.  The second cut stops balls from going further into the trees.   
  
  Q.  Do you think that's -- this will be the 10th Masters, do you think that's been a good change for the golf course?   
 PHIL MICKELSON:  I'm not really one to say that.  I can comment on how I think it plays.  I think it's playing easier with the first cut.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT