BUICK INVITATIONAL
January 26, 2008
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  I was feeling under the weather, too, but I got to take two days off.  You didn't get to do that; you played. 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  I was not feeling the best before the tournament started.  Fortunately I've been feeling a lot better the last few days, and I've been able to practice and work on my game.  I've been playing a little bit better each day as the tournament has gone on, and hopefully tomorrow I'll put together one good, solid round to get the year started off right and then carry that momentum over to Phoenix next week. 

 Q.  30 on your front nine today, how good did that feel going out? 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  Yeah, that felt great.  I hit a lot of good shots and then made some putts.  We were one of the first groups off, and so the ball was rolling really well. 
 When we made the turn, it was tough around the hole because we had a lot more traffic, and with the rain, the softness, it made the short ones tough.  But I was able to have a good front nine.  That was nice. 

 Q.  That's got to be something to build on because this is your first tournament of the year, so you've got to feel good to put a 30 under the belt to kind of get things started? 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  It is nice to make some birdies like that and string it together.  I had not played the way I wanted to the first two days, and so I came out this morning and it was nice to see the ball go in the hole.  I'll try to carry that over a little bit to tomorrow's round and see if I can play another good, solid round. 

 Q.  Well, my Eagles didn't get to the Super Bowl, but your Chargers didn't get to the Super Bowl, either.  Anything for next week?  What should we look for? 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  I think everybody here in San Diego is still mourning the loss.  We all thought that we had a really good chance to beat New England and probably played well enough to do it, but in the red zone we weren't able to get it into the end zone. 
 I think it'll be an exciting Super Bowl because the Patriots are trying to do something really special, trying to make history here, and the Giants played them very tough the regular season.  There's hope that with an adjustment here and there, they might be able to beat them. 

 Q.  Do you root for history, 19 and 0, or Eli Manning, brothers, back-to-back? 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  Yeah, that's a tough one, I think.  It's going to be a lot of emotion, I think, in this game because of the proximity, too, with the Boston-New York thing. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT