BUICK INVITATIONAL
January 25, 2008
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Just your thoughts, frustrating, encouraging, both? 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  I'll look back and kind of assess where my game is at probably after Sunday's round.  I'm not sharp right now.  I didn't get a chance to work on my game too much leading into this event because I wasn't feeling well.  But looking at it, I think that it's not really one area that's deficient.  I think all areas just aren't quite right yet.  But my iron play on the South has not been what it needs to be to give myself chances for birdies. 

 Q.  Looking at the South Course tournament-wise, do you feel like it's getting closer to an Open course now that you've played it? 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  It's certainly tough.  It's always been tough, though.  Since this redesign there's no bail-out, there's no fun, easy holes.  They're all extremely hard and tough to get close, yet guys are still making birdies.  With the soft greens if you hit some good shots you can get it close and make some putts, but that wasn't really my game today. 

 Q.  You don't sound like you feel like you can try to get back into it for the weekend.  Is that the case? 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  You never know when it's going to click, so you don't want to just say too much.  I've got to go off early tomorrow, one of the first groups off the back side most likely, and I should get nine holes of greens that are pretty smooth, and maybe I can get the putter rolling and maybe make some birdies. 

 Q.  Is it possible if the weather gets bad in the afternoon it could be an advantage? 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  You never know.  That's happened before at the British Open a few times.  It doesn't happen too much here in San Diego. 

 Q.  Is there anything specifically that makes this course tougher or is it just the grind of no holes let you off the hook? 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  No holes let you off the hook.  It's 7,600 yards at sea level, plus with it being cold and windy today, it just gets monotonous hitting 4-iron and 3-iron and 5-iron and 4-iron into every hole, and it's hard to make birdies.  But yet guys have done it.  So it's not like it can't be done. 

 Q.  You've got four in a row after this is it? 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  I play four more events, yeah.  One of them, LA, I communicate from San Diego, so I'm only away from home two of those five weeks, and it doesn't feel like it's much travel, especially since it's all on the West Coast. 

 Q.  How do you feel compared to last year's confidence? 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  Well, I'm a week behind schedule because I didn't get to prepare last week for this event, so I knew that coming in I was going to be rusty, and I fought hard to kind of keep it around par, make the putt.  I'll look back at these four rounds and try to assess what needs to be improved on, and then Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday before next week's event I'll try to address some things. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT