HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 11, 2007
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Phil Mickelson HSBC Champions Champion, 2008, finally, how does that feel? 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  It feels amazing.  I don't know how it happened.  The whole day was a whirlwind, but what a fun day and what a fun opportunity for me to come play here in China, my first opportunity to do that.  And I want to thank HSBC for that opportunity, and I want to thank the people here in China for treating me and my family so wonderfully this week, we had such a great time here. 

 Q.  Can I have your thoughts, please, down the 72nd hole, down the playoff hole, what was going through your mind? 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  To just fight it out; to just keep fighting.  I had a huge lead early in the round, hit some horrible shots.  I had five penalty strokes, actually six in the final round.  And it was a difficult day.  But I kept fighting and it's a funny game, golf.  You just never know what's going to happen.  We say that a lot. 
 I never thought after hitting in the water I had a chance, but it happened, and I'm very thankful to be the recipient of this year's championship trophy. 

 Q.  I thought I had seen everything happen in golf, but that 72nd hole, you have to feel for Ross Fisher; that was an unbelievable thing that happened to him. 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  I do, and I think everybody does in the golfing community.  Ross is getting married next week.  I think he has bigger more important things on his mind, and I congratulate he and his fiancee on a successful and hopefully a longlasting marriage and life together. 

 Q.  How will you celebrate the win? 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  We are going to steal some of the wonderful red wine we've been drinking here and hop on the plane and head back to California.  I'm taking two and a half months off.  This has been a great opportunity for me to test some new Callaway equipment this week that I'm going to put in play in '08 and I feel very good about it.  So I feel like I have a head start for '08, but I plan on taking two and a half months off. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT