THE PRESIDENTS CUP
September 27, 2007
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Were you surprised at the number of holes that were exchanged, six and six across the board?   
 PHIL MICKELSON:  You know, you don't think about it when the match is going on.  We were 3-down through 11, we needed to get something going and Woody made an 18, 20-foot putt on No. 12 that really jump started us.  Like you said, he made some putts and watt match is going you don't think about who is winning what holes.   
 We just knew that we needed the putt on 16.  We needed the putt on 17 and we obviously needed one on 18 and we were very happy with the push.  I thought that Mike and Vijay played some great golf and Woody and I hung tough and we lost five out of eight holes, for us to be able to come back and halve this match I thought was a very good sign.   
  
  Q.  After making your putt, giving Vijay his putt -- did that just happen?   
 PHIL MICKELSON:  No.  Captain Nicklaus said for us to do it, and had he says something, we just do it.   
 But with me, I don't know.  (Laughter) when you're in the match, you don't think about it, but Captain Nicklaus said it was the right thing to do.  It was a hard-fought battle.  There didn't need to be a winner or loser, and Vijay is not going to miss that putt.  It's too short -- I haven't seen him miss that in four or five years.   
 We had a couple of holes where we got it back to even.  It looked like it was our match to take the lead on 15.  We had a nice 12-footer and I didn't think their bunker shot was that easy.  It was a deep bunker, and Vijay hit an incredible shot and holes it, and the very next hole, when Woody hit the sprinkler head, the ball goes over the green, in the rough, and it looked like we could be dormie, too.   
 But he made an amazing, just a wonderful 10, 12-foot par putt, and then on the last hole made an incredible putt, too.   
 So we are very fortunate to halve the match.   
  
  Q.  Pretty big stage for a rookie.   
 PHIL MICKELSON:  The back nine he hit some of the greatest shots -- some of the best shots in the clutch you'll see.   
  
  Q.  Was the halve the right result?   
 PHIL MICKELSON:  Yeah, I thought so.  There shouldn't have been a winner or a loser.  And both sides played very good golf.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT