DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 2, 2007
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Did you feel like you were almost a good luck charm for the Red Sox last night? 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  Well, I'd like that to rub off on my own game.  I've watched a couple players play very well the last few days, and Brett had some incredible holes today.  Certainly he made a lot of great birdies.  He made a wonderful eagle on 7. 
 But I think the most impressive hole that I saw was the par he made on 5.  He hit it off to the right in the hazard, he took a drop, and from 240 yards hit the shot, landed it on the green, ran it up the swale, swirled around, and went four or five feet from the hole and he made it.  Just an amazing par. 

 Q.  What was last night like? 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  Last night was a lot of fun.  I was able to take my kids to Fenway Park, and that's an experience in and of itself, but to have a no-hitter thrown, the atmosphere was electric the last three innings, it was so exciting.  And the play that Julio Lugo, the second baseman, made up the middle, is that right?  Was that Pedroia?  Okay, sorry.  What an amazing stop, and kept the no-hitter going.  It was such a fun evening.  I've got to tell you, Coco Crisp caught a couple of line drives that looked like they were singles for sure. 

 Q.  Did you think of leaving early? 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  No, I always stay until the end of the game and I usually wait about 20 or 30 minutes for it to kind of die down and just kind of relax. 

 Q.  How important were the par putts to keep the round going? 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  I made a lot of par putts today that were very important because I was having trouble getting my iron shots close to the hole, and so being able to salvage pars and not force myself to keep making a lot of birdies allowed me to shoot a solid round of 68, be in contention for tomorrow without having to force things. 

 Q.  (Inaudible.) 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  Well, I need a good round.  I need a good round tomorrow.  I feel like there's a low round out there, but usually most of the birdie holes here are in the first seven holes here, so you want to get off to a quick start and birdie some of the par 5s.  Like No. 4, the drivable par 4, I ended up bogeying that today.  You want to get off to a quick start because the back nine here is a lot harder, more difficult birdies out there. 

 Q.  Talk about the feeling you have now after 18 and that approach shot, just your frame of mind. 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  Yeah, I think that you want to birdie the last, and it's great.  I think it is just as easy to birdie the last from 60 yards, 70 yards from the fairway there than it is on some of the spots around the green.  Where that pin was, some rough -- the rough was going to be a tough shot, and certainly Brett had a tough shot down that hill.  I wasn't in that bad a spot, even though I wanted to go for it and I hit a poor drive.  I still was in a good position to make birdie there. 

 Q.  Talk about your overall experience here so far.  This is your first time here, and how has your experience been, and will this be a tournament you come back to? 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  Well, it will be, for two reasons.  One, I love the golf course, I love the setup; and two, it should be part of the playoff system.  So those two things make it a stay. 
 I know this is in Providence, I kind of consider it Boston/Providence, and it's been a lot of fun with the Ryder Cup being here in '99.  Some of my best experiences of the game were here in the Boston area.  The weather has been terrific.  I can't believe how nice this is. 
 Again, I think the golf course and the fans who come out and watch have been so cool.  You know, they've just really treated us well and have been very respectful and had a lot of encouraging things to say. 
 You know, that's not always the case in cities, so it's very much appreciated by the players. 

 Q.  Some thoughts on the way Brett played today, just overpowered the front nine? 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  He's a very impressive player, and he had an incredible front nine.  The eagle on 7 was remarkable.  I thought that the most impressive hole, though, was No. 5.  The best shot he hit was the 3-wood on 4, where he almost made eagle there.  But the best hole that I saw was the par on 5 because he flailed it off to the right in the hazard, took a drop -- 

 Q.  Six drops. 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  Yeah, he kept dropping.  I kept waiting for him to hit it, and he kept dropping it.  He finally did hit it, and it was well worth the wait because it was the shot of the day in my opinion.  It landed on the bottom of the tier, swung up the tier, back around to four feet and ended up making that for par.  It was an incredible par. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT