THE BARCLAYS
August 26, 2007
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  How pleased are you with the way you played this weekend? 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  I was pretty pleased with the way I played this week.  I didn't score as well the first couple of rounds that I wanted to, and I would have loved to had a better run at the leaders. 
 But I was pretty pleased with the fact that I was in contention there towards the end.  I had a chance for a couple of birdies that might push me up on top of the leaderboard; and playing well again and I started to putt better. 
 So, I'm starting to look toward to next week's tournament in Boston. 

 Q.  Did the double-bogey on 4 derail you a little bit? 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  Sure it did.  I never know what the leaders were going to do.  I never knew they were going to stay around the start at 14-under.  Stricker could have easily shot 3- or 4-under, and 3- or 4-under could not have made a difference. 
 With the leaders staying right around the same start number today, if I could have made more of a push, eliminated that double early, I might have made a better run.  Either way, it was a fun final round and I'm looking forward to next week. 

 Q.  Are you surprised the leaders did not make more of a push? 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  I was not surprised because I thought the golf course setup very difficult; the pins were tough; the greens were getting firmer; and the ball was bouncing more and it was hard to get close; and again, they were not the smoothest surfaces.  So the scoring didn't surprise me.  But if you played well and you had a couple putts here or there go in; the par 5s are reachable, you can almost drive 10 and there were some birdie holes out there. 

 Q.  Good thing is you finish strong going into Boston. 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  Yeah, I'm looking forward to next week and the next three weeks, and it should be fun. 

 Q.  What happened on 4?  Did it hit a tree and come back at you? 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  Yes.  I tried to cut more of the edge off, caught the tree and kicked it left into the shrubs. 

 Q.  Do you like the fact that you have an extra day of work before the tournament starts? 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  I do.  I like finishing on Monday.  I think that will be kind of interesting, and we will have three days of large crowds with the holiday and it should be fun. 

 Q.  Physically do you like the way you're feeling now? 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  I'm feeling good and looking forward to finishing strong and we have the Presidents Cup after this and some overseas stuff.  So the year is not quite winding down, but it is a fun culmination to the season with these next three weeks after this. 

 Q.  Did this feel more like a Playoff-type of atmosphere or did it feel like a normal tournament? 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  Not yet.  It's starting to but not yet.  The start of the week was more of just like a regular tournament but now guys are looking at the FedExCup points list and how many points do you get for each place. 
 I think one of the fun things that I really like that's been done is they pair 1, 2 and 3 on the FedExCup standings together Thursday, Friday, and 4, 5, 6 are together.  I thought that was really neat.  I played with Vijay and Jim Furyk this week and that adds some excitement I think to the start of the week. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT