THE BARCLAYS
August 25, 2007
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  How about your round today? 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  Well, shot a couple under but I had a very good start to the front nine and felt like if I could shoot anything under par on the back, I would be in position for the championship tomorrow. 
 And unfortunately I had a tough stretch there.  I had a tough break on 11 where I hit a good shot and ended up in a very difficult spot.  The double bogey on 16 certainly kind of hurt my chances.  But finished with two birdies, and we saw that there's a 9-under par round out there, what Hunter scored today.  Hopefully if I can get off to a good start I'm going to try to shoot 8-, 9-, 10- (under) and see if I can put some pressure on the leaders behind. 

 Q.  How aggressive do you go out there with your mind-set tomorrow? 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  Very aggressive because I have to shoot an incredible round to catch them.  The front nine will be important.  I've got to get some putts to go in.  There's a lot of birdie holes on front nine, and if I can shoot 4-, 5-, 6-under, I think I can, make a good move and have a chance on back. 

 Q.  Do you still look at it as more of a marathon than a sprint? 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  Not really.  I feel it's important to get off to a good start in the first event.  I'm hitting some good shots and I feel I just need to get the score out of it.  Tomorrow is the only thing I'm concerned with.  Even though we have additional tournaments, it's important to get a good final rounds in this event and get a good start. 

 Q.  How different is the course playing from the times you've played here? 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  I don't think it's playing easy at all.  The rough is tough.  I think the greens are very fast and bumpy, which is the hardest greens to putt because you have to putt tentatively and it wiggles around.  And the pin positions are all high, so it's hard to get close.  It seems like the ball is always rolling away and it's been difficult getting it close. 
 So I don't think it's playing easy at all.  I think that the scores to be what they are is some pretty good golf. 

 Q.  Did you know you were within three at the turn? 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  I did, yeah, and I felt like anything in double digits would be right in there for tomorrow, and all I had to do was shoot under par in the back.  Again, I ran into a bit of trouble there in the middle. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT