WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 3, 2007
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  We've had four first-time winners.  What do you think that means or do you have an explanation for that?   
 PHIL MICKELSON:  No idea.   
  
  Q.  How are you feeling?   
 PHIL MICKELSON:  Okay.   
  
  Q.  Are you playing in pain?   
 PHIL MICKELSON:  No, it's fine.   
  
  Q.  Is this a tough stretch for you?   
 PHIL MICKELSON:  What do you mean?   
  
  Q.  The last couple weeks, I'm just wondering how you're keeping up with your calendar.   
 PHIL MICKELSON:  It just seems to happen overnight.  You just make a couple putts and shoot a good round, and all of a sudden you're playing well again.   
  
  Q.  How did you play the first two rounds here?   
 PHIL MICKELSON:  I played really well.  Obviously I didn't score well, 6-over par, but I'm not displeased with the way I'm playing.   
  
  Q.  When we were writing all these stories about you being the best player never to win a major and you were trying to win majors, what was your mindset to keep yourself positive about?   
 PHIL MICKELSON:  I don't remember.   
  
  Q.  Well, I was talking to Retief earlier this week, and he said he used you as an example for himself because you would say, Look, guy, I'm going to win, I'm going to win.  I'm not just going to win one, I'm going to win more than that.  And he kept saying to himself, if Phil can do it, so can I.   
 PHIL MICKELSON:  Yeah, I don't know where to go with that, sorry.   
  
  Q.  You're one of the top players on TOUR.  When you get it going, are you going to know it, or is it just going to happen?   
 PHIL MICKELSON:  I don't know.  I mean, that's a good question.  It just kind of happens.  You kind of go in streaks.   
  
  Q.  Are you still a big NFL fan?  And if you are, what do you think of the Browns?   
 PHIL MICKELSON:  I think it's going to be an interesting year.  The Browns upgraded their offensive line, which is huge for their running game, but you need to be able to throw it, too, and I'm not sure how that is.   
  
  Q.  Was it the time off that you think caught up with you, having the injury?  You had just won The PLAYERS and had a couple of thirds and were really hot.   
 PHIL MICKELSON:  You know, I don't know what to tell you.  I played well at the Scottish Open.  I played well at the British.  I'm actually playing pretty well here.  But we're at a U.S. Open-type venue here with the conditions being so tough.   
  
  Q.  I just got an email that nine teachers from Akron went down to your academy in Virginia.  Can you just tell me what the mission of that academy is, what it's all about?   
 PHIL MICKELSON:  We're trying to get more students, especially the third, fourth, fifth grade, inspired and excited about math and sciences because in the United States we have been not turning out as many scientists and engineers as other countries.  China alone I think turned out over 2 million more graduates last year alone, and that puts our country in jeopardy as being the scientific leader, continuing with great breakthroughs in medicine and computing and mathematics.  That jeopardizes or puts our country in jeopardy as being one of the great powers.   
  
  Q.  And did you start this with your wife?   
 PHIL MICKELSON:  My wife and I have partnered with Exxon Mobile to create the academy.  The teachers from Akron, I think some of them are out here this week because I saw them there last week.  That was our third academy -- this is our third year, but in our third year we had three different academies of 100 different teachers.  We try to give them new, kind of insightful ways to get their kids inspired that don't require a lot of money, whether it's a race car with paper plates and Life Savers and toothpicks, stuff like that, to teach friction and speed and gravity and stuff like that, Newton laws, stuff like that.   
  
  Q.  Were you good at math?   
 PHIL MICKELSON:  I was okay.  I was okay at it, yeah.   
  
  Q.  You kind of play more a swashbuckling, romantic type of golf than you would think being a math guy.   
 PHIL MICKELSON:  That's because I want to win.  It's not easy to win out here.  If you just hit it in the middle of the green every hole, you won't make enough birdies here to come back from the middle of the pack all the time.   
  
  Q.  Does it bother you that maybe people were not paying attention when you came back after Winged Foot and Won PLAYERS, that even though it's not one of the four it's right --   
 PHIL MICKELSON:  I don't know, Winged Foot was a long time ago.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT