AT&T NATIONAL
July 5, 2007
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  What do you take away from your round? 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  74, it was just not a good scoring day.  I was pleased that I hit some good shots but I didn't make very many good putts.  I had 15 pars which was good but the two bogeys and a double didn't help. 

 Q.  How did your wrist feel?  Is it bothering you at all? 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  No, it's okay.  It's all right. 

 Q.  Practicing yesterday -- was there any reason -- 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  Not really, no.  It's okay.  It's all right. 

 Q.  What was the double? 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  I doubled 6.  I guess it was theoretically a bogey but calling it double. 
 I hit a drive in the rough.  I had to lay up, hit a good shot -- I didn't hit a good shot to about 35 feet and 3-putted. 

 Q.  What's your level of rust at this point going into the British Open? 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  I was a little rusty.  Last week I thought I was playing pretty well and came here and played today, I thought I hit a reasonable number of good shots but I scored terrible.  The course wasn't that hard to keep it around par or under.  And I just -- I really struggled on the greens.  I just didn't make any putts. 

 Q.  The one on 18; is that typical? 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  You know, that was my last hole, six feet out, it looked perfect but I knew it wasn't going to go in.  I just didn't know it was going to be high or low, it was one of those days where the ball seems to miss the edges. 

 Q.  Your first competitive round since the injury, do you feel like it held up better than expected? 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  You know, I expect it to be okay.  I was told that it may hurt, but I won't be doing anymore damage.  So I'll be going after it pretty good, and it does hurt but as long as I am not doing anymore damage, I'm okay. 

 Q.  Can you talk about the fans that came out here, they are obviously golf fans, but a lot of them are here to see you in particular, and that's -- 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  Oh, no, they are here to see Tiger.  Let's make no mistake.  This is a really special event to bring to the D.C. area, and for Tiger to do what he's doing and integrate the community and the military and his Tiger Woods Learning Center it's a tremendous event and I'm lucky to be part of it.  I think all of the players that are here are excited to be here. 
 The guys that missed it, it's just that they had scheduling conflicts that they had made before the tournament had been in existence. 

 Q.  How important is it to do well at a tournament with his name on it and if you own, he would pass the trophy to you? 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  Well, after that first round, probably not likely, but it would be cool. 

 Q.  How did the White House come about? 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  I don't really know how it all came about, but it sure was fun.  It was a very surreal experience to be on the veranda watching the fireworks with both President Bushes and their wonderful wives. 
 And I had a chance to meet Condoleezza Rice, I'm a big fan of hers.  I really enjoyed meeting her for the first time.  And I met some other interesting people. 

 Q.  Does she want to be Commissioner of this Tour? 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  I don't know, but she would do a great job. 

 Q.  (About The INTERNATIONAL). 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  I don't know what to say about that.  It was a wonderful event, and as the tournament was called the international, it was based on the premise of having a lot of international players.  And now one of the top European Tour events is going on this week, and so it really wouldn't have been the same tournament that it was brought in to be.  It wasn't -- kind of lost that international player to it even though it still had the name. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT