THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY MORGAN STANLEY
May 31, 2007
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Is it anything serious? 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  I'm not really sure.  I've never really had an injury so I'm not sure.  I don't think it's anything serious, but it just got worse.  I couldn't grab the club and I couldn't swing.  I hit a wedge on 2, and it got really aggravated. 
 It started hurting a couple days ago.  I was hitting a lot of chip shots out of the rough at Oakmont, and I think that kind of aggravated it.  I hit some drivers today and it started hurting a little bit, but nothing I thought I couldn't handle.  I took four Advil, I thought it's all right, and when I hit a wedge on 2, it shot up my arm, and it was okay, I kind of half-clubbed it around. 
 And the 5-iron on 4 really hurt.  It just got worse.  I don't really know what it is.  I don't think it's a big deal, I just can't put any pressure right now or grip the club. 
 I'll take a couple days off, see if I can ice it and get it ready for the Open.  I'll try to even play next week in Memphis if I can.  I'll go have somebody take a look at it. 
 But I think the U.S. Open is more what we're gearing up for.  As much as I'd like to play here and as excited as I was to play here and get back into the swing of it, I couldn't swing. 
 On 11, when I tried to hit a wedge, the ball was in a divot and that was where it got a lot worse because Jim Weathers was helping me make it bearable, and then the wedge shot on 11 out of the divot jarred it pretty good, and I just didn't feel like I could hit a shot on 12. 

 Q.  Is it the hand or the wrist? 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  It's the wrist, just in the wrist. 
 I have mobility, it's not a problem, I just can't put any pressure on it. 

 Q.  Have you had an injury before like this? 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  I haven't, no.  I don't think I've ever withdrawn for an injury.  This is a new experience.  I guess I'm getting older.  I'm turning 37 here soon, and I guess this is part of the deal.  It's not a fun part.  This is the first time, though. 

 Q.  You had a guy kind of working it as you walked down -- 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  Yeah, he came out to 9.  It was kind of unbearable 7 and 8, and he came out on 9 and made it reasonable, and that shot on 11, the wedge shot on 11, just jarred it.  Just 100 yards, I'm going with 20 yards more club, and still jarred it and just couldn't hit it. 

 Q.  Who was the guy working on it? 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  He's kind of a, I don't know, healer (laughter).  But it was helping, it was really helping, but that last wedge shot really hurt. 

 Q.  Can you remember what you were doing when you first felt pain? 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  I don't know.  I don't know.  I know it started being aggravated a little bit hitting a bunch of chip shots out of the rough, so I kind of cooled it on that and just putted.  But hitting drivers this morning, I started hitting it great.  I had a great conversation with Butch last night and got it really dialed in this morning.  I was hitting some great drives, felt great.  Started hurting a little bit but nothing out of the ordinary, and it just got worse through the round. 

 Q.  Were you always planning on going to Memphis? 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  I was planning on committing, yeah, today or tomorrow.  So this isn't an addition because of that.  I'm hoping that I have a chance to play next week because I'd like to get some competition, and I was really looking forward to playing here.  I love this golf course, the field is great, and I was looking forward to playing well.  I had been playing so well.  So I'll take a few days off and see if I can get ready and maybe some back for competition in Memphis. 

 Q.  Are you worried? 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  I'm not really worried yet, no. 

 Q.  Is this shaking you at all? 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  You know, I don't know.  It's never happened before, so I'm not really sure what to think of it. 

 Q.  Did you hit any full shots, full swings out of the rough at Oakmont, or was it just chipping?  Did you get an idea of how far you could try to advance it, for example? 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  A little bit, yeah, but it was mostly bunkers along the sides of the fairways.  There wasn't very much rough spots where a ball would end up. 

 Q.  If anything it was just around the greens? 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  Just chipping, yeah. 

 Q.  It sounds like you would have pulled out today regardless of whether the U.S. Open was two weeks away or not.  I mean, it sounds like it's just too painful to play? 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  Well, yeah, I would have. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT