THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 11, 2007
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  You got off the tee about the same as yesterday for fairways, still a number of lucky ones or a few that went wide? 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  The difference today was my misses off the tee wore a lot bigger.  I hit some very poor shots today and put myself in tough spots to make par.  Whereas yesterday even though I missed a few fairways, they were right around the edge and I was able to still play aggressively.  I hit some very poor shots the front nine and I was fortunate to only be 1-over and get it back to even. 
 So I'm pleased with that.  I'm pleased to have gotten to back to even.  But on the other hand, had I played well, I think this was a day I could have shot 3-, 4-under par and pulled away a little bit. 

 Q.  You had 13 one-putts.  That's pretty stellar. 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  I agree. 

 Q.  The conditions were benign today.  I mean, José Maria shot 66.  Was the golf course there, because not many guys really went low? 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  Yeah, the wind wasn't as tough as it was the first day certainly, and there were a lot of low scores.  A lot of guys shot under par today.  Unfortunately I just wasn't one of them.  But by the same token, I didn't shoot well enough to shoot even par and even get it to par even, so I'll take it. 

 Q.  Take us through 16. 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  16 I was trying to hit a slidey cut drive into the fairway, a little right to left, and try and make a birdie.  That was kind of my goal.  And I hit a 6-iron up the left side of the green and had just enough draw on it for me to catch that swale and it kicked right down by the hole.  It was a fortunate bounce but it happened to be a shot that I hit right on line, but you still need that lucky bounce to get close. 

 Q.  Do you say to yourself when you go to 17, don't give it all back here, just concentrate and stick in there? 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  17 has not been the friendliest hole for me, so I'm taking a whole different tactic this week.  Just trying to make a 3, let my lag putting do it and just try to hit on the island.  I only hit a wedge there.  I didn't think I could get it back to the hole, I was just trying to hit it into the swale and trying to hit it as hard as I wanted to, knowing I couldn't go over, and take a 3. 

 Q.  Knowing there is no wind in the forecast, how does that change the outcome of the tournament and your plan? 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  Without wind I think it's going to go to double digits under par.  Even though the greens are firm, it's tough to get the ball close.  The par 5s you can make birdies on and you can get it to 15, 20 feet and make some of these putts, so I expect some of the scores will be quite low on the week. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT