THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 12, 2007
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Two hours on the range this morning with Butch, almost instant results?   
 PHIL MICKELSON:  I hit it much better today and was able to be more aggressive into some greens.  Unfortunately I didn't get my irons as close as I wanted to.  I hit a lot of good shots.  I'll take 3-under par. I would like to have gone lower.  I felt like the greens were softer, more receptive, and a lot of low scores today.  So I felt like I gave some ground back, and certainly not being in the lead now.  I hit it much better.   
  
  Q.  You placed yourself, sitting in the tournament, you're right where you'd like to be?   
 PHIL MICKELSON:  I like playing in the last group.  I think it will be a fun day.  Sean is a great young, talented player, and he's going to do a lot of great things on TOUR.  And to have a chance to play in the last group with him will be fun.   
  
  Q.  Your prediction, 10 or 11, but they'll be tough pins tomorrow?   
 PHIL MICKELSON:  It will be double digits under par.  If the greens are softer like they were today they'll be more susceptible, and I think we'll see some birdies.   
  
  Q.  When you walked to the first tee, somebody had already shot 65; low scores.  You knew you had to go out and get in the red numbers?   
 PHIL MICKELSON:  I did know that, and you feel like you're pressing, having to force birdies.   
 When a couple of putts didn't fall on 5 or 6 I felt myself press a little bit and the middle of the round kind of stalled.  I was able to finish strong with birdies on 6 and 18.   
  
  Q.  You got to 18 and Sean was playing in front of you, made that birdie, 9-under, can you will yourself to a birdie in that situation?   
 PHIL MICKELSON:  You can't will yourself, but the pin was in a spot where I didn't have to hit a perfect shot to have a good birdie putt.  I could have missed it right, a little long, and it would have come back to a good birdie chance.   
  
  Q.  You were saying to yourself that you want to play in the last group?   
 PHIL MICKELSON:  I was thinking not so much in the last group, if I shot a birdie I'd be in the 60s. That would be a victory to me, because I didn't get all out of the round that I wanted.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT