WACHOVIA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 6, 2007
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   PHIL MICKELSON:  With the way the week went obviously, obviously you want to win, but there's only one guy that's going to win.  I thought I played well and I'm excited about getting a little momentum after last week's third place finish, same thing this week.  I'm looking forward to carrying that into THE PLAYERS.   
  
  Q.  As windy as it was, did you think someone would get out there and get to 11, 12, 13?   
 PHIL MICKELSON:  I thought there was a chance to make a move and shoot a low round and I thought it would be tough for some guys to keep pace because it was difficult, and Tiger got off to a great start, shot 31 on the front nine.  It looked like everybody was going to have to do something spectacular.   
  
  Q.  You birdied 17.  How many have done that this week?  What is it about that hole that makes it so difficult?   
 PHIL MICKELSON:  Did you see all that water?  That can be challenging.  My playing partner Trevor Immelman hit a great shot, lands right in the middle of the green, hits the downslope and runs off into the water and never even had a chance of slowing down.  It's very difficult to hold that green.   
  
  Q.  THE PLAYERS Championship next week, talk about that week, how special it is for you to go there again trying to get that win.   
 PHIL MICKELSON:  We're all looking forward to getting back to TPC Sawgrass.  The clubhouse is done, we're excited to see that.  The golf course has been renovated, we're excited to see that, see how it plays, see how the condition is.  I think everybody is really looking forward to the tournament.   
  
  Q.  Everybody part of your game except for driving this week, you seem to be dead on.   
 PHIL MICKELSON:  That's correct.   
  
  Q.  Early in the week you said driving accuracy would be maybe the biggest part of this tournament, yet you were right there.   
 PHIL MICKELSON:  Yeah, I mean, I was able to make a lot of pars from out of the rough, getting balls around the green and getting up-and-down a lot, and when I did hit fairways I was able to make birdies.   
  
  Q.  Would you say that you're still coming along with that process?   
 PHIL MICKELSON:  I think that's kind of obvious, yes.  73rd, that's not what I'm shooting for.   
  
  Q.  This golf course changed character this week two or three different times.  It seemed like you guys played it in almost three different climates.   
 PHIL MICKELSON:  We really did.  The first two days were difficult.  The third day couldn't have been easier, and then the last day was windy and tough but the greens were soft and receptive much more so than the first two days, making birdies possible but club selection difficult.   
  
  Q.  Was it just about getting the right club in your hands today?   
 PHIL MICKELSON:  A lot of it was trying to judge the wind because it kept swirling around.   
  
  Q.  How good was this tournament for next week?   
 PHIL MICKELSON:  This is a great event to hold the week before THE PLAYERS because it's such a challenging setup, such a challenging layout, challenging off the tee.  The greens are difficult, they're fast.  It really makes a nice stretch.  It's close by, and to have these two tournaments, really the upper-echelon events together, makes it great for the players, and we all look forward to that two-week stretch.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT