EDS BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
April 27, 2007
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  70 today.  Different course, different day, but kind of the same formula, started off well on the front and had a difficult finish. 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  I fought hard the front nine and made some good par putts, a couple good birdies and turned at 2-under, and I thought I could really have a good day today because the back has two par 5s.  And I played okay, but I missed five putts inside six feet.  That's what hurt.  Those two birdie putts on the par 5s and then three pars.  So I gave back five shots. 
 But I shot even par, and I've got a shot at it this weekend.  I've got to go pretty low tomorrow because there are a number of guys that are right around the lead. 

 Q.  What course do you prefer to play? 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  They're both well done.  They're both good layouts, and I think the TPC is probably better to hold the tournament because it holds people and allows spectators to have a better experience. 

 Q.  You have two rounds competitively with the new coach.  Feel any differences in your swing, and if so, what are they? 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  You know, it's going to take some time, but I feel pretty good.  I feel confident with it.  I feel like I know where the ball is going, but it'll take a little time. 

 Q.  Are you going to miss Cottonwood Valley as part of this tournament? 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  I'm sure I will, but I also will enjoy playing an extra round over at the TPC. 

 Q.  Have you had a memorable moment at Cottonwood Valley? 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  I've had a couple of good memories over here.  I remember playing with Ben Crenshaw and I had a good round that year.  I think it was the year I won, back in '96. 

 Q.  As far as renovations over at the TPC, I know they were looking for players' input.  What would be some suggestions you would make on the renovation? 
 PHIL MICKELSON:  I don't know, I think D.A. will probably have a pretty good idea of what to do.  He's got a good idea for how the golf course plays, and I think that they'll redo the greens and the bunkers and the tee boxes and so forth and improve it, and after 26 years it's probably due for a facelift, and I think next year it'll be in impeccable shape. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT