EDS BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
April 28, 2007
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Somebody found something out there.  You got yourself right in the middle of this tournament today.   
 PHIL MICKELSON:  I played much better and was able to finish off the round.  I'm still quite a ways back and I'm going to have to shoot a very low round tomorrow, but at least I have a chance.  I put myself to where I might have to shoot 62 or 63, but at least I have a chance at it.   
  
  Q.  I was talking to your caddie Jim Mackay, and I said, he's hitting the ball great today.  He said, you know what, he hit the ball great Thursday, too.  I said, what was the difference?  Is it one of those things where it's golf; one day it's good and one day you don't score?   
 PHIL MICKELSON:  Just getting it to set in.  When you're making changes the rhythm is what needs to set in, and the rhythm was much better today as it was on Thursday, so I hit some good shots and was able to make a couple putts.   
  
  Q.  All of us that play golf, we've gone through lessons, we know how hard it is to learn something new and actually to bring it out on the course.  It's obviously going to take time, isn't it, to get it to where you want it to be?   
 PHIL MICKELSON:  Well, sure, because for me it's a learning process.  I understand the short game, I understand how to hit shots around the greens, how to make the ball spin and do certain things, and I understand putting.  I know how to read greens now with the help of [Dave] Pelz and how to roll the ball certain ways on different breaks.  And I understand difference control and how you get the ball to stop, but I've never really spent a lot of time of driving and understanding the keys to driving and the keys to missing in certain spots and keys to keep getting the ball to not curve as much and getting it going a little straighter.  So it's learning how to drive as much as it is applying it to my actual driving.   
  
  Q.  You talked yesterday about how you needed to -- you've said you needed to go low today to give yourself a chance.  It's low enough I guess to have a chance tomorrow, isn't it?   
 PHIL MICKELSON:  I think that's well put.  I really wanted to get to 6 or 7 to be in contention, but where I'm at gives me a good chance to get out ahead of the leaders and try to post a 7-, 8-, 9-under par round and see if I can pass them.   
  
  Q.  Most of your rounds you kind of struggled with the back nine.  Today you finished with two birdies in the last three holes.  Was it nice to kind of finish that way?   
 PHIL MICKELSON:  It's a much better finish, finishing with a couple of birdies.  That pin on 17 was a tough one, too, so to get an 8-iron in there close and to be able to make the putt was nice.  Just played a little bit better.   
  
  Q.  You talked about missed opportunities yesterday with the short putts, a couple on the par 5s.  How was it today?  Did you feel better about the putting today?   
 PHIL MICKELSON:  I made a lot of good putts today, I really did.  Whereas yesterday I felt like I hit good putts but I wasn't reading them right, I wasn't making them, I wasn't hitting them the right speed to go in, and it was much better today.   
  
  Q.  Third round with kind of the new swing on your drive.  How is that coming along?   
 PHIL MICKELSON:  It's coming.  It's going to take time.  I've got the three most difficult driving weeks; I think here at the Nelson with tight fairways and crosswinds; next week in Charlotte it's the same thing, fairways are tight with a lot of turns and crosswinds; and then THE PLAYERS Championship.  It's going to put it to the test early.   
  
  Q.  You said, too, you talked about rhythm was key.  Do you feel like you're getting more of that rhythm with the changes?   
 PHIL MICKELSON:  It's coming, but again, it's going to take time.  That was the key to hitting the ball better today and Thursday than say Friday where I really didn't strike it well was just getting the rhythm down.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT