THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE
June 1, 2018
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Felt really good Friday to bounce back after the way things finished yesterday?  
PHIL MICKELSON: Yes, I've been a little bit up-and-down, but the course is just in incredible shape and when you get it going you can make birdies and when you hit some bad shots you're going to make some doubles, which I've done both.   
 Q.  When you got home yesterday or back yesterday, what was any adjustment when you got here today or simply just the conditions materializing the way you could go back out and score?  
PHIL MICKELSON: I just lost focus and when I'm not really focused I just make some sloppy swings and make some big numbers.  I just came out today, tried to just be sharp, and didn't get off to the greatest start.  I hit a couple of tough shots early on, but the back nine was nice.   
 Q.  What's the best take away today into the weekend?  
PHIL MICKELSON: Just that my game is close and to keep working on fine tuning, hitting the right shots, course management, just staying sharp and trying to shoot a number.   
 Q.  How important was that second nine in terms of momentum for the next couple days?  
PHIL MICKELSON: It's only nine holes, I don't want to put too much into it.  But it's nice to have played well enough to make the cut, be able to play the weekend, keep working on my game and hopefully get sharper and sharper.  But the challenge for me is I feel like my game and ball striking and all those things are sharp, but I haven't been sharp with my focus and picking a shot.  I haven't been as committed, I haven't seen it as clearly and obviously, the last nine I played I was sharp.  But I've got to do that every single shot, because out here the penalty is so great for a miss.   
 Q.  What clicked in in that last nine or 10 holes?  Was there any one thing?  
PHIL MICKELSON: Nothing really different.  It didn't feel much different, other than I just saw it a little clearer and hit a lot more good shots.  I was matching the speed with the line on the putts and it just -- I don't know how else to say it.  I just was in a much better frame of mind.  If I knew how to do that every time, I would.  It's just that that's the thing that I'm working on.   
 Q.  How tough was it for the group after struggling the last two days?  
PHIL MICKELSON: It wasn't overly difficult.  This golf course is tremendous in that if you play well, there's a lot of birdies and if you hit some bad shots, there's bogeys and doubles.  I found both of them yesterday.  I just tried to come out and be sharp today.  But my front nine I didn't play that great.  My first eight holes I was, I wasn't doing great.  But the last 10 I played well.   
 Q.  When you're like, after how you finished yesterday and like you said your first eight today, kind of get over that mental obstacle to try to focus back in and get going?  
PHIL MICKELSON: Obviously if I knew the answer would I share it with you.  I don't know the difference, you just keep trying.   
 Q.  Have you said anything to Jordan?  It seems like he's been struggling a little bit lately and just anything to maybe help pick him up?  
PHIL MICKELSON: I haven't.  I haven't even noticed.  The guy's so talented, I haven't really even thought twice.  It looked like he was playing well enough to be 5-, 10-under par and he's a couple over.  It's weird because he's got so much game and so much talent.   
 Q.  You talked at Sawgrass about energy issues after taking a couple weeks off.  With three weeks in a row now, do you feel like you're starting the stretch with a full tank of gas?  
PHIL MICKELSON: I am actually.  I feel like it's starting to build.  Meaning the ability to practice longer each day, the ability to stay sharper for more holes throughout the round and more shots throughout the round is building, yes.  And that's kind of the goal, obviously, heading into the U.S. Open.  But I was declining awhile ago.  So now it's starting to go back up.   
 Q.  Is that why you're playing at Memphis next week to try to build?  
PHIL MICKELSON: I just love Memphis.  I like playing the week before a major.  And I think that that's one of the more underrated tournaments and courses that we have.  I just really enjoy it there.  But I do want to try to keep building some momentum for the U.S. Open.   
 Q.  What about going to Memphis next year after the British Open?  
PHIL MICKELSON: I think it will be great.  Like I say, I think the course is underrated.  I think it might not be visually as esthetically pleasing, but it plays phenomenal.  I think it's a wonderful track.  It will be a great place to host kind of the year end season long FedExCup challenge.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT