THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 10, 2018
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Thoughts on the day?  I know it was a little rough on the back nine.  
PHIL MICKELSON: You know, I knew this was going to be an issue.  I said it Sunday at Wells Fargo, I was worried about energy this week.  And I just kind of ran out at the end.  I had a lot of fun, enjoyed being with the guys.  I just had a poor finish, 7-over the last five.  That's the day.   
 Q.  You seemed like you were a little stunned by the time you got to 17.  
PHIL MICKELSON: You know, it just -- I was concerned about this being an issue.  I don't know what else to say, just the ability to focus and have energy at the end of the day, and I sensed it Sunday at Wells Fargo, and unfortunately I tried to do some things this week to offset it, but I just wasn't able to get it done.   
 Q.  Far be it from me to discuss fashion, but there's been a lot of comments on the deal, on the shirt.  Are you quite happy with it?  
PHIL MICKELSON: We have short sleeves, too.  We have polos and stuff.  This stuff is stretchy.  You don't even know it's on.  It's very comfortable.  So I actually really like it.  I think nobody does kind of slightly overweight middle aged guy better than me, and this says exactly who I am.  I don't know what to say.  I'm really happy with it.  I think you shouldn't knock Mizzen+Main until you try Mizzen+Main.  It's the best stuff out there.   
 Q.  Do all of them have buttons all the way down?  
PHIL MICKELSON: No, we have polo shirts and everything.  I just like this.  I think that it's -- it says that if you can play golf at the highest level, imagine how comfortable it is in the office and so forth.  It's very comfortable.  I love it.  I'll wear it a lot when it's cooler.  I have some polos I'll wear later on.   
 Q.  The energy level you're talking about coming in here, is that a concern for you week to week?  
PHIL MICKELSON: I knew it was going to be a concern this week.  I knew that I was going to have issues late in the day.  I tried to offset it this week by taking it easy, not doing too much, and tried to eat right, tried to do all the right things to hopefully not have it be an issue, but I was concerned that that was going to be the case, and it was.  I'll come out tomorrow, should play fine tomorrow, and hopefully just have a good day tomorrow.   
 Q.  Is that specific to this championship, or is that something you deal with all the time?  
PHIL MICKELSON: No, it's not specific to the tournament, it's just kind of specific to me and the workload and the things that are going on, and energy output throughout before, during tournaments, things like that.   
 Q.  Crowd about what you expected even for a Thursday, energetic?  
PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, they were great.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT