THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT
June 4, 2006
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PHIL MICKELSON:  It's been a fun week.  I'm sorry I didn't play a little bit better, but it was a good start for me to get back into it after some time off.  It's a great golf course, and great play by Carl Pettersson.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
PHIL MICKELSON:  Well, I didn't hit fairways today.  And I felt like I struggled a little bit    I didn't quite fall into place like I hoped.  I'm glad that I have a couple of weeks.  That's why I like to play tournaments a couple of weeks before a major, to work into it.  But I ended getting up and down to stay in there.
Q.  Why did you decide this year that you were going to come?
PHIL MICKELSON:  Well, I've been wanting to come for a while.  It's been tough scheduling wise.  I was going to come last year, but I couldn't make it in time for the Tuesday Pro Am.  I spent time in New York, and it worked out perfectly to come out here and get started on such a great test.  The greens here, the rough here is just as close to the thick at the U.S. Open.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
PHIL MICKELSON:  Well, it was plugged under the lip.  And I think as you probably saw on TV, I don't know, but it's hard to describe.  It wasn't sitting the best.  But the end result was okay.
Q.  Carl seems pretty calm.
PHIL MICKELSON:  He played very solid all four rounds.  He didn't fluctuate much today.  He played very solid golf, a lot of pars, and a couple of birdies here and there, and that's what you need to do when you're in the lead.

I didn't obviously see his round, I was in front of him.  I noticed on the scoreboard he wasn't fluctuating much.
Q.  What kind of lie (inaudible.)
PHIL MICKELSON:  Terrible.  I was in one of the divots, and just decided to take a chance.  I had some good fortune with the same thing on 6 and was able to hit a pretty good shot there.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
PHIL MICKELSON:  Oh, the two hardest were the bunker shots on 6 today and 18 today, because fairway bunker shots are difficult with the divots in the sand.  Around the greens, you can hit a lob wedge and get the ball up on the green, no problem.  It doesn't have any spin.  But if you're hitting an uphill bunker shot, you can get it stopped.  But the fairway shots were the tough ones, so it was a bit of a gamble, but it paid off in the end.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
PHIL MICKELSON:  I just am fresher mentally.  I'm excited about practicing hard.  I'm working harder, like I do when I try to get ready for a major.  After The Masters, taking a couple of weeks off, it wasn't quite time to get ready for the U.S. Open and I was finding it hard to focus in on the rounds, focus in on the practice.  But now with the U.S. Open coming up, I'm spending more time on the range, putting and chipping.  So when I'm out there playing, I'm much more mentally fresh.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
PHIL MICKELSON:  It's really not for me to say.  I think it's great that we have variety.  Some guys say you thin out everybody.  But it's not for me to say.  Everybody has to play it, and as long as they all have to play it, I don't have a problem either way.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
PHIL MICKELSON:  It's been a more draining week than normal, because of the delays, because we had to get up this morning and play at 7 in the morning.  Yesterday we ended up playing 30 holes.  It was a little more draining week, but a lot of fun, all in all.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT