U.S. SENIOR WOMEN'S AMATEUR
September 30, 2015
Tama Caldebaugh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. First off, you've got to feel good about getting done last night.
TAMA CALDABAUGH: Yes.  Yeah, it was.  I guess anything can happen if you have to come back in in the morning.
Q. You come in fresh, starting a new round, got done early, and had another little run like just like you had the run on the same part of the course yesterday.  Tell me about that.
TAMA CALDABAUGH: I did.  Well, I had a run kind of the wrong way for a couple holes.  Again, I just stay patient and know there is a good shot in there somewhere and wait for it to come.
Q. Have you played Jane at all before?
TAMA CALDABAUGH: No, I've never met her.
Q. What's it like coming out and playing something like this where you're meeting new faces and seeing new names that you don't compete against?
TAMA CALDABAUGH: I know some of them from some of the other tournaments, but it's fun to meet people from other parts of the country and make those connections.
But it's amateur golf, and anything can happen on any given day.
Q. Going back to the match today, was there a certain point or hole where you felt played really well and maybe was a turning point for you or some hole that might have stood out how you played on that hole?
TAMA CALDABAUGH: Trying to think of some of them.
Well, when I birdied 16 to go back to 2-up.  You know, I hit it fairly close.  Made a good read; made a good putt.
That gave me some confidence going into the next few holes.
Q. Do you know about how close that putt was?
TAMA CALDABAUGH: Four feet.  Yeah.
Q. So now you've got the rest of the afternoon, and hopefully for you two rounds tomorrow.  What do you do to get ready with the change of schedule?
TAMA CALDABAUGH: Well, I think the change od schedule was the best, because it was a long day yesterday.  To try and do two long days, that would've been hard.
So I think having the break this afternoon, probably do some putting, but then just relax and rest and get ready for tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT