THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2012
Tom Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  TOM WATSON:   Well, it was‑‑ finishing with a couple of bogeys on 16 and 18 doesn't leave a very good taste in my mouth.   But overall it was a good round.   Played some good, solid shots.   But I hit three terrible shots that cost me bogeys.   They weren't even marginally bad shots, they were just terrible shots.   And that frustrates me. 

Q.   Do you have a general good feeling about your game?
TOM WATSON:   Well, I have a really good feeling about my putting for the first time in years.   It's something that I came upon in the practice round, practised for a couple of hours on Tuesday and going with something and it just seems like it's just‑‑ it opens the doors of me making a lot of putts again.   That's exciting for me. 

Q.   Can you tell us what that something is?
TOM WATSON:   Too complicated (laughter).

Q.   (Inaudible.)
TOM WATSON:   Well, they didn't play very well today.   Ryo finished poorly and Martin had a tough day altogether.   I've been there before.   I know what they're feeling.   And tomorrow is a different day and go to the practice range, work it out, try to figure out what happened on your bad swings and don't let it happen again tomorrow.   So that's how you keep trying to progress.   Sometimes we digress out here.   And today's couple of rounds, they didn't get the work done today. 

Q.   You've played so many rounds of golf, I'm sure you've seen all different kinds of conditions.   How does this compare as the most benign you've seen?
TOM WATSON:   Well, it's not the most benign.   Actually the first round at Turnberry 2009 there was no wind at all.   We've had several‑‑ we've had several days on the golf course out here, Saturday when I won at Muirfield, there wasn't a breath at Muirfield on Saturday, 1980 at Muirfield.   They can pick some of the days.   But usually you get more wind than this.   So you're going to see the low scores today.   It's supposed to pick up this afternoon. 
The players in the afternoon are going to have more wind to deal with, so we got the benefit of the draw today.   Tomorrow when we tee off late, who knows what's going to happen.   We may get‑‑ it may blow hard tomorrow afternoon and be calm tomorrow morning like it was this morning.

Q.   Talking about your iron game at the Senior Open and maybe not quite sure about how you were driving the ball, is that coming around?
TOM WATSON:   I drove the ball well again today.   A couple of irons, long irons were just awful today, just terrible.   They weren't even marginal, as I said.   So it's something that‑‑ I don't know whether it's because my hand‑‑ the strength in my hand or just a bad swing or whatever.   But I'm going to blame it on a bad swing and it's my own darned fault.

Q.   Do you prefer to see it blow a little more? 
TOM WATSON:   Well, not when I'm playing (laughter).   Let it blow when the other guys are playing. 

Q.   Is experience crucial playing this tournament? 
TOM WATSON:   You know, I think experience is pretty crucial here.   And there are certain things you'll learn that you can't do over a period of years of playing this game on these golf courses.   And those things are‑‑ what it does is it simplifies the game for you.   I think a lot of times the kids, the young players make it a little bit too complicated, when you really can't make it that complicated.   It will bite you when you make it too complicated.   So the simpler you can make it, the better. 

Q.   Does it make you feel better to know that this is the second best Open score that you've had at Lytham in your career? 
TOM WATSON:   I haven't done‑‑ I haven't played Lytham very well at all.   This course has frustrated me, I can tell you.   And I was hoping to come in and shoot under par today after making a good par‑‑ a good two shots at 15.   That's a tough hole, 15, for me.   And then I screwed up 17 with the second shot.   And then 18 I screwed up with a drive.   And it was‑‑ but anyway, 71 is a pretty good score for Watson on this links, you're right. 

Q.   Just one more question about Ryo.   Japanese golfers haven't had much success on the PGA Tour.   Is he the one that could break through?
TOM WATSON:   He certainly has a tremendous amount of talent.   He shows it in spurts.   I know he had a very disappointing day today.   And like I said, go to the practice range, figure it out, and play better tomorrow. 

Q.   There's only 12 scores under par so far.   Does that surprise you given the conditions?
TOM WATSON:   Well, it's early.   It's early. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT