THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 21, 2011
Tom Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   TOM WATSON: Pretty good. Wasted a lot of strokes on the greens today. It was not a very good day on the greens.   
 I made -- let's see, I made 2-putts that's about it. But I 3-putted a couple times, missed a real short one. Missed some make-able putts. And I kind of flubbed it around at No. 8, made double bogey there, just from the middle of the fairway. That was not a very good shot.  
 But I played some pretty good golf from tee to green, honestly, today. Came up pretty empty with the putter.  
  
  Q. Working on your putting?  
 TOM WATSON: I thought I did. But it didn't work today. I had one good stroke today. It was on 17. I made a par-saving putt at 17. It was a pure stroke. I made a pretty good putt on this last hole over here and it didn't go in.  
  
  Q. Use that formula you said you used, that you remembered from a while back?  
 TOM WATSON: Yes, I'm still using that formula. Just didn't work very well today. That's the way it is.   
  
  Q. How long was the putt at 17?  
 TOM WATSON: I made it for about -- oh, seven feet, eight feet, maybe.  
  
  Q. Does that pretty much explain the day, then?  
 TOM WATSON: No, that didn't explain it. I wish it did explain the day. I would have shot about 71 today if I had made those putts today. I didn't putt very well. 3-putted a couple of times. And I made -- I missed a two-and-a-half foot putt for birdie at 10. And I had some really good make-able opportunities I didn't make.  
  
  Q. Did the greens differ as it started raining? Did it change the speed or anything like that?  
 TOM WATSON: No, not really. Old strokes -- old, bad strokes, is what happens.  
  
  Q. (Off microphone)  
 TOM WATSON: It is. It's a long golf course. We're playing it long. But we got a little bit of a wind today that maybe the early morning players didn't get. So they had a slight advantage, stroke advantage, on their scores.   
 But I'm pretty happy about the way I hit the ball. I kept the ball in play and got a number of good shots. Only missed three greens.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT