SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 26, 2011
Tom Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Talk about today. 
 TOM WATSON: Well, I tell you they're the fattest robins I ever seen out there. There's so many worms out there and now there's no worms out there. They won't eat for a month. There were so many worms in the fairway and, you know, obviously the conditions are wet. 
 I played a good round of golf. I got, I think I played a little bit better than I scored today. I made some errors on the greens with the putter and I'm very happy about the way I struck a lot of my long irons today. There was a lot of good long irons today.

 Q. 2-under given the conditions out there, given the first round, given the weather, you have to feel good about your position at this point. 
 TOM WATSON: 2-under is a good score. It's not easy to play under wet conditions and stop and start. It's not easy. But we have done it before and there are no surprises out there. It was just a long day and you just had to be prepared for the second go around, which I did. 

 Q. Any difference in the golf course playing before the rain and after?
 TOM WATSON: Just a little wetter. The fairways, you're walking in casual water in the fairways from the storm last night and you're walking in more casual water in the fairways with the storm this afternoon. 
 The one saving grace is when you can have the ball in your hand. When you can tee the ball up and it allows you to get rid of some of that mud on the ball which when you have mud on the ball you don't know where it's going to go. And I'm glad they played, they relented and let us do that, because it kind of counter balanced the really wet and soggy and long conditions. The golf course played long. They used a lot of short tees today and it still played long. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 TOM WATSON: The bunkers drained beautifully. The main thing is to try to get the water out of the bunkers. And I think that's a credit to the design of Mr. Nicklaus and also the pumps. They used a lot of pumps here at Valhalla. They use a lot of pumps. 

 Q. Somebody said it was the wettest they played on. How would you rate it?
 TOM WATSON: Well, I'm an older guy. I've played in wet conditions like this before. 

 Q. Talk about getting the round in. Some of these guys will be lucky to make the front nine. But to be able to get that round in and get a good night's sleep?
 TOM WATSON: The same thing with us tomorrow. Because we don't tee off until, I would say, at the earliest by 3 in the afternoon tomorrow. And most likely we won't get finished with our round tomorrow and have to finish on Saturday morning. So that's the way it's going to be. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT