THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
July 23, 2010
Tom Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. It's a pleasure for me to interview you at the end of any round, but at the end of the day, what does it feel like?
 TOM WATSON: Any time you shoot 71 at Carnoustie on a day when the wind is blowing like this, you have to feel pretty satisfied.

 Q. The shot at the last, the 7-oron, I described it as spectacular; would you agree with that?
 TOM WATSON: Fortunately I had a pretty decent lie; although the lie was on the downslope. It was one of the few shots I hit right in the middle of the clubface today. Everything seemed to be a little thin off these tight lies. We old guys, we like to have a little cushion. 

 Q. Not a lot happening, was there?
 TOM WATSON: It's a struggle out here. Carnoustie, it's all you want as a golf course. You start on the back nine, 10 and 12 right in your teeth; and 14, it plays a little bit funny. And then you have 15 downwind; 16 downwind; 17 into the wind, completely different than yesterday, and that played tough today. It was one of those shots that I was very lucky to make bogey there. That ball could have been in the gorse so easy.

 Q. I know it's towards the end of your career, it's way past the end of my career; can you tell me what the secret is to playing a links golf course?
 TOM WATSON: Well, the secret is to try to play the wind, play the wind properly. I learned early on that you can't fight it. You've got to accept what the course gives you and to understand the wind and the combination of the wind and the roll of the bounce. That's the essential part. I think I've done a pretty good job of it, but there was a couple of shots out there today that, again, that's links golf. 

 Q. You are such a fan favourite here, all is well that ends well, that was a great finish?
 TOM WATSON: Well, it was. A 71 on this golf course -- if you walked around today, you know how hard it was, holes like 10 and 12, 17, they were really tough holes today. The key to links golf is to try to guess the wind properly. 
 I made a few bad guesses today but a few good guesses today, and especially on the last hole, downwind, right-to-left wind from a downhill high, and finally hit one in the middle of the clubface for a change. 

 Q. Is it fair to say that you use the wind as your friend and don't try to fight it when you play links golf? 
 TOM WATSON: Well, I work the ball against the crosswind sometimes and sometimes I work it with the crosswinds. Just depends on how the shape of the hole off the tee is, and how you have to get it to the greens. 
 That's the jigsaw puzzle you have to put together. You have to guess sometimes, and a lot of times you have to take dead aim on holes such as 16. 
 By the way, first par, ever, at 16 today, in my career. 

 Q. We know and we told the world, Tom. 
 TOM WATSON: I have to brag on that. I made seven bogeys and a birdie on that hole and finally made a par. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT