SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 27, 2010
Tom Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 TOM WATSON: Well, it was a real factor today. They dried the greens out and it will be a lot tougher scoring this afternoon than this morning when the greens were softer. I played okay. I can't complain. I made a few mistakes with the putter, but other than that I played okay. And I could have shot a little bit better score today, but it's a tough golf course in this wind and without knowing it a lot you kind of play a little bit safer.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 TOM WATSON: Well, I asked him about the golf course, yeah. I asked him about how he built it and what type of grasses he used and different things. And he, it was definitely not something that would help me score or anything. But just talking about the grasses and everything else around the course.  
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 TOM WATSON: Well I think it's a very good golf course. I'm very impressed with the design of the golf course. It's very good.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 TOM WATSON: Darn right it was a good score. 6-under par in this wind? Darn right it's a good score.   
  
  Q. Do you think that will be the low round of the day?  
 TOM WATSON: You tell me about 7 o'clock today. You're probably right. Probably right. It's a fine round of golf.   
  
  Q. Conditions remain the same tomorrow how much more difficult will it be going on?  
 TOM WATSON: Well I said the greens are drying out a little bit in the afternoon. It's going to be a little tougher scoring this afternoon. Not a question. You have to land the ball well short of the hole and know the golf course.   
 We're all still learning the golf course. But they have had this wind now for the two, this is the third day we have had this wind, so we know it with this wind. If the wind changes to the north then we'll see.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 TOM WATSON: No, Ben played well.   
  
  Q. Did it help him having built it, do you think?  
 TOM WATSON: Well, a few shots I think it was pretty apparent what you had to do, but he played a lot of good shots today.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT