MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2010
Tom Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 TOM WATSON: Well, it was a good week, first of all, it was a good week here that got off to a great start and I had one good round and three rounds that were just kind of the average rounds that I shoot here. A pair of 73s and a 74. That's just kind of too many mistakes that kind of killed me.   
 Like Jack Nicklaus said in 1986 when he won, this is a young man's golf course and the putter has to work like a young man's putter does and mine didn't work. Mine worked like a 60-year old putter did today.   
 But I still I'm happy about the way I held in there today on the last day. And of course the first day was a wonderful day to shoot 67.  
  
  Q. All week long you talked about you're here to win, you're here to be a part of this tournament and you're pushing yourself to play. Is it at this moment now that you can take a step back and say what an incredible week it was?  
 TOM WATSON: Well, it was a week I that wish I had played a little bit better. My game was just a little bit off compared to the way it was at the beginning of the year.   
 Maybe the Masters has something to do with that and the greens may have something to do with that, but I felt that I was capable of doing a little bit better than what I performed.   
 But again I'm happy to be here, at 60 years old playing in Augusta National, the Masters, and having my son caddie for me it's the experience of a lifetime.   
  
  Q. Talk about having your son, just the special moments this week. What they were what were the highlights?  
 TOM WATSON: Sure that was the highlight. Having your son ask you, hey, dad, I got a great plan, the plan came out perfectly. And on the 18th hole or on the 13th hole when we played together and his girlfriend was following us, it worked just right. It was a, it was kind of a tearful day. It was just the way it should be.   
  
  Q. Anything else stand out in during the actual tournament between you two?  
 TOM WATSON: Well what stood out was I finally broke 70 here for the first time in many years. I shot 67. But then I played like I normally do, I shot 74, 73, 73, and made, just made too many mistakes.   
 Today I started off poorly with the putter and my iron game wasn't exactly on and I needed to be on over 90 percent. Nine out of ten times. And I was there about seven, six or seven out of ten times and that's what hurt my chances this week.   
  
  Q. Do you remember the last time you broke 70 here?  
 TOM WATSON: Well I think somebody said it was '97 that I shot a 69.   
  
  Q. You performed well in the Majors, I know there's a lot of speculation about what will happen at the U.S. Open, would you like to play there, would you like to?  
 TOM WATSON: I would very much like to play the U.S. Open at Pebble Beach. It's my favorite golf course in the world.  
  
  Q. Have you heard anything?  
 TOM WATSON: I haven't heard anything yet. But I hope something's going to -- I think the USGA's going to make a decision maybe in the next week or so.   
  
  Q. We asked you this all week, you got a standing O on the 18th hole does it touch you a little bit the ovation there?  
 TOM WATSON: Sure it does. It's a wonderful feeling to have the people treat me like they do. It's a great feeling.   
 I know quite a few of them probably have seen me play a number of years here at Augusta National, and we have a commonality about it, and that, you know, there's, I don't have too many years left here at Augusta National playing, it's just always nice to have that cheer coming up the 18th hole.   
  
  Q. Do you think your performance here mattered in the U.S. Open decision? Do you think it was a factor?  
 TOM WATSON: I couldn't tell you. I don't know.   
  
  Q. Does it have to be a special invitation?  
 TOM WATSON: Yes, it would.   
  
  Q. Have you had those before?  
 TOM WATSON: I have. I have. I received those, I received three or four of them from them.   
  
  Q. Do you feel better about, I know this course you've always felt was too big, but what about Pebble and how does your game fit there?  
 TOM WATSON: Well, I played from the back tees last September and the ninth hole's the one that I think is going to be a difficult hole for me. Playing a long shot in that green like that.   
 I think I can deal with 10, I think I can deal with 13. Those are the three tees that they moved back. I think I can deal with those two holes, but 9 may be the one that I have a hard time with.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT