OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 4, 2010
Tom Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Tom, your first competitive round on this course, 73, how do you feel about that?   
 TOM WATSON: It was an up-and-down round really. I started off and I missed two or three short putts on the first several holes, just not very good with the short putts. When I made a putt on No. 8, I pulled it and it went in for a birdie, and then I bogeyed 9. It was very sketchy at that time, and I made two good birdies at 10 and 11.  
 And got to the 14th hole, and I hit a driver off the tee and I ended up hitting it a little bit farther right than I wanted to, but ended up going in the water, and that was a lack of knowledge there. Probably should have hit a 3-wood, but I wanted to hit the driver about 30 yards further than that, and I compounded my misery from 3-putting from 60 feet for double-bogey. But I made a good hole on the following hole. Didn't hit very many good shots coming in, but scrambled with three pars.  
  
  Q. You played with a couple of our best young players. Quiros, talk about him; he hits the ball miles, doesn't he?  
 TOM WATSON: Yes, he does. He's definitely a talent. He has the ability to hit the ball a long way, which in anybody's book, length is what you're looking for. So the talent is there. He has a very good swing, very solid swing, and he made some good putts today. He didn't hit the ball the way he wanted to. He was complaining about hitting some half-hits, his half-hits are going 280 with 3-wood, and I was hitting driver about 260.   
 So I remember those days when I was pretty long, but I was never as long as him. But it's always fun to watch people like that play.   
  
  Q. You've won recently on the Champions Tour, having passed the age of 60, how big a thrill was that?  
 TOM WATSON: It was a great thrill. I had not won last year. I won the year before but not last year, and so last year wasn't -- it wasn't a successful year. Yes, I finished second in The Open Championship at Turnberry, but still it was a second place, not a victory, and that's what I'm out there to do is to win.  
  
  Q. You finished that Champions Tour event by finishing birdie, birdie, and you pride yourself on hitting quality shots under pressure; is that the case?  
 TOM WATSON: That's what I'm out here to do, when it counts, if I can hit a shot that means something, that's how I measure my success.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT