SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 24, 2009
Tom Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. What was the difference between yesterday and today?
 TOM WATSON: I felt like my putting stroke was a little bit better. I made some putts. A putt at 1 and 3 and 5. A long putt at 5. So the stroke felt pretty good. 
 And then I missed two real short ones at 12 and 13. One from about two feet and another one from about four feet. And the old stroke went right inside and I missed it right. 
 But I made a good putt at 16 and a good putt there for birdie. 
 I played well. I played well. I hit every green but one. I was putting for birdies, let's put it that way, on every green. Except number 4. I made a good up-and-down. I made a good putt there for par from about 10 feet. 
 I made one from about 20 feet on the first hole for birdie with a sand wedge. 
 Then 3, I hit it in, I made it there from about 20 feet. 
 15, I hit a 9-iron in there. 
 Number 5, I hit a pitching wedge to about 30 feet past and holed it. 
 Number 8, I hit it in about three feet and made it. With a pitching wedge. 

 Q. You had a 5-footer on 9?
 TOM WATSON: Yeah, I did. But I played well today, I just didn't make very many mistakes, except on number 4 and then on the greens at 12 and 13. Kept it in play and had a lot of birdie chances. 

 Q. That is the competitive course record. 
 TOM WATSON: Is it? Well, that's all right. 

 Q. What did you think of the course?
 TOM WATSON: I thought it was a very fair test. The rough was deep enough where you had to drive the ball straight. And you're always just wondering if you hit the ball in the rough whether you would have a lie or not. Most of the time you didn't have a lie. 

 Q. Greens?
 TOM WATSON: The greens are perfect. Good speed and I had a little difficulty in judging the speed on the greens. I had one 4-putt, I 4-putted 9 on Friday. I thought I was going way downhill, I left it short, and then ran it by and then missed it. 

 Q. Is it all about putting with you, because your driving, at least to me --
 TOM WATSON: I drove the ball very well. I was on today tee to green and it's all, it all comes down to, I used to make all the short putts and now I made a few of those. And now I have some fear. And when you fear them you're going to miss them. 

 Q. Is it feel?
 TOM WATSON: I don't know. I just don't feel confident that I'm going to make a proper stroke. Most of the time that's what happens. The mind tells you you're not going to make a proper stroke and you don't. 

 Q. You probably never thought of your stroke before, right?
 TOM WATSON: Not that much. But I've dealt with it for 10 or 15 years. It's no big deal.

 Q. Where are you playing next?
 TOM WATSON: I'm playing the Watson Challenge in Kansas City coming up in about two weeks. My own tournament there.

 Q. And who is joining you there?
 TOM WATSON: Well, we have 48 players, amateurs and pro, the best of Kansas City. You can only be from the eight counties in Kansas City to play. So tournament started two years ago, this is going to be the third year. It's to determine who is the best golfer in Kansas City. 

 Q. Where is it going to be played?
 TOM WATSON: At Shadow Glen. A course I helped design. 

 Q. How is the design business for you?
 TOM WATSON: I got a course going right now and actually possibly another one. It could be one that they're going to say get it done as quickly as possible. 

 Q. In the United States?
 TOM WATSON: Yeah. 

 Q. You're not a overseas guy?
 TOM WATSON: Well, I had a couple opportunities overseas, but one opportunity in particular, but they decided to go a different way. But there's one, they may pull the trigger this week. 

 Q. When you made the turn you were even par behind by three. Did you think that you could move?
 TOM WATSON: I did. I wanted to get a couple more under. I made a good putt at 10 that didn't go in. 
 11, I hit a lousy wedge in there. I 2-putted there. 
 12, I had a birdie putt, missed, kind of misread it and then ended up missing a short one. That kind of put the screeching halt to good things right there. 
 And then of course combining that with a 3-putt on the last hole. That dimmed my hopes a little bit too much.

 Q. Had you gotten a round like this in the second round or first, would that have made a little difference in the mental attitude for you as far as being able to win this thing?
 TOM WATSON: I just wasn't close enough to the lead. Just didn't get close enough to the lead. The 4-putt killed me on Friday. Even to that hole, you know, and that killed me. 72, 70, 70, 66, I'm right there. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT