SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 23, 2008
Tom Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Talk about your round. You're 1-under today, so obviously it was a little bit better than yesterday.   
 TOM WATSON: Oh, any time you shoot under 70 on this golf course, it's, you have to be very happy about the way you scored. I scored very well today. I shot, got it up-and-down the last two holes. Made 10-footers for pars on 17 and 18 after not a good approach shot at 17 and not a good drive at 18.   
 But I made a couple birdies on the front nine on the par-3s and I just kind of hung in there. And I made some good putts and scrambled on 8, 9, and 17 and 18 for all for pars. And so I was happy about the way I scored today good day to score.  
  
  Q. You have lot of experience out here, so was yesterday kind of unusual?  
 TOM WATSON: It was not unusual when you hit the ball in the rough as many times as I did. You could get penalized when you hit the ball in the rough and you just can't play. I made three double bogeys and that -- that will run your score up pretty quick.  
  
  Q. What made today different other than the weather?  
 TOM WATSON: I kept the ball in play off the tee. I hit the ball in the rough three or four times today. Yesterday I probably hit it nine times in there. So that's the difference.   
  
  Q. When you look at the leaderboard do you think this round putts you back in contention?  
 TOM WATSON: Sure, it does. Yeah. This golf course, over par is going to win this golf tournament. And so it's just a matter of time.   
  
  Q. Did you have a number in mind? Did you have a target or did you just kind of hope for it?  
 TOM WATSON: I said to myself last night I said if I shoot three rounds under 70 I would have a pretty good chance to win the golf tournament. I got one round out of the way.   
  
  Q. I know that there was some concern earlier in the week that this pro-am was playing too long for the weather that we were having.   
 TOM WATSON: Well, they had the tees up from where they played the pro-am tees, yeah, that's for sure. There are three or four tees that are up some.   
 But we're senior golfers out here, we're not the kids. I don't know what they're trying to prove in the pro-am setting the tees that far back, but basically we got to see the full golf course though.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT