MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2008
Tom Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. How did Brandt impress you the last two day, Tom?
 TOM WATSON: He played very well. But what most impressed me was his chip shot on the green at No. 6. He was dead and it was with a putter in his hand -- and he knew it -- and he took a chip shot and lo and behold he chipped it in the hole for two. The best he's going to make is four, maybe five, and he chips it in the hole for two. It shows some imagination, that's very impressive. Very impressive. 

 Q. 27, do you think he's old enough and playing well enough to win this tournament?
 TOM WATSON: It's up to him.

 Q. Does he have the ability to do that?
 TOM WATSON: Sure. 

 Q. Is this the first time you played with him?
 TOM WATSON: It is.

 Q. He said that you were always one of the players that he liked to watch and were one of his favorites. Did he express that to you?
 TOM WATSON: Not really. I hooked up with him in the practice rounds and we played together in the par-3 and we were paired together in the tournament. I was very impressed. He hit the ball a long way, he hit the ball solidly, and he played some shots that he had to play. Cut shot at 18 yesterday was a beauty. And he, actually in the practice round he hit a nice cut round there and pushed it a little bit right. So he's got a lot of tools. The imagination is what impresses me. He has wonderful imagination. And you have to have that here. 

 Q. What specifically do you see that reminds you of you 20 years ago?
 TOM WATSON: The speed with which he plays. He plays confidently and when he makes a decision he goes and hits it. 

 Q. How about your play?
 TOM WATSON: Well, I am getting old. Last year I hit the wrong ball by mistake and today I forgot to move my ball back when I moved the coin for a two stroke penalty. So I'm getting old. I'm losing strokes the easy way by doing stupid things. 

 Q. What hole was that?
 TOM WATSON: That was on number 3. I forgot to move my coin back, so I got a two shot penalty there. But I didn't play particularly well, not today. I played a little bit better yesterday than I did today. 

 Q. When you play here now how much does memory come into it on the greens. You've seen every putt out here. 
 TOM WATSON: There are some flag positions today though that I haven't seen. The one at 3, I hadn't seen that one. The tee at 16 and the flag stick at 16 today I haven't seen that. They mixed it up a little bit. The greens are large, so they have a lot of options here. And they are playing with it. It's good. 

 Q. When you won in '77 did you play with someone who has the stature that you have in Brandt's eyes? In other words was there a player that you really looked up to maybe might have given you some sort of an inspiration or some sort of target of how to play this golf course?
 TOM WATSON: Frankly I can't remember who I played with in '77. The last round I played with Rick Massengale. 

 Q. Even practice rounds or anyone that you really relied on for information or information that you looked up to at that time?
 TOM WATSON: Ken Venturi. I played a practice round with Kenny and he helped me with some strategy on the golf course. Which I always thought was, he was always very direct and it was very good strategy. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT