U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 29, 2005
Tom Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Talk about your round today.
 TOM WATSON:  Well, my round today was punctuated by four shots about a foot from the hole.  You like those types of putts for birdies, especially with    I hit two of them with 4 irons, one with an 8 iron, one with a pitching wedge, and that made it pretty easy, but I did struggle a little bit more than yesterday from the standpoint of keeping the ball in play off the tee, and I had to scramble quite a bit, which I did.

I had a unique experience today.  I hit a green in regulation and had a one putt par on the 5th hole today.  On the 4th hole today I hit it on the green, putted it off the green, then I putted it in the hole for par.  I had a one putt par with a green in regulation.

So things went right for me today.  I'm very grateful for that.  I hit quite a few good golf shots today and made a few putts, but really, the four birdies I made from about a foot.  I wish I had a few more rounds like that in me.
Q.  How's the driver?  Where is the mindset with that right now?
 TOM WATSON:  Well, the driver is a little bit    it's not as good as the other driver.  I'm hitting it a little bit to the right now, and that's    overcompensated a couple times today and hit it left, and I'm just going to have to stick with it until I find the swing that works with that particular driver.
Q.  Seems like the two weeks hasn't affected you.
 TOM WATSON:  Four majors in four weeks, come on.  I came in here obviously on a high.  I played well last week and the week before that and the week before that, actually.  I've had a very good stretch of golf right now, and I hope to continue.  I hope I can keep it together and not get so careless.
Q.  What do you do during your free time?
 TOM WATSON:  Well, the free time right now, I'd like to go to the aircraft museum.  I may hit that this afternoon.
Q.  You've been in this position many times.  I mean, what do you do from here?  Obviously two more rounds, but what is the mindset with that?
 TOM WATSON:  Well, the most important thing right now is to    basically just do what I'm doing right now, and that is I'm hitting a lot of good golf shots.  I have a trust in my golf swing.  Every putting stroke is kind of an adventure, but it seems like most of them are going in.  So I can't complain.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT