U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 28, 2003
Tom Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 TOM WATSON:  Hey, cool off, will you!

Q.  Give us your general take on how you did?
TOM WATSON:  I played a better round than I did yesterday.  I shot 1-under par.  I had quite a few opportunities for birdies today that I didn't have yesterday and I didn't make.  Today was one of those days that I just didn't get it quite close enough to the hole and when I didn't make the putts.

Q.  Tom, you are playing well, tee to green, you are looking awfully good, when you  go to bed tonight four shots behind, it's a tough golf course, that could be lots of swings, in your favor, against, Bruce, so on and so forth?
TOM WATSON:  Sure.  This golf course has a lot of pitfalls, a lot of hazards to it.  If you don't put it in the fairway you are really struggling on this golf course because of the severity of the rough.  And that's -- my game plan is to go out there and make five or six birdies tomorrow and see what I can do. 

Q.  Last year you were five back with 10 to go; are you hoping for a little deja vue?
TOM WATSON:  I would like to come out one shot ahead like I did last year when all is said and done at the end.

Q.  Tom, it might be dismaying for you to hear this; Bruce hit only seven fairways?
TOM WATSON:  Well, he can cut it out of that rough.  He is good out of that rough with that cut shot of his.  The greens were soft enough today; the first day they were very firm.  Today and yesterday they were about the same consistency.  That's the way they should be for the old folks. 

Q.  I noticed on 10 you kind of looked up at the scoreboard; how much does that enter into your mind seeing Lietzke kind of take off?  Does it play at all?
TOM WATSON:  No, I was trying to make birdies on every hole but it wasn't to be.  The putter wasn't cooperative on the back nine.  I had my opportunities at 10 and 12 and 13.  I had my opportunities.
14, I had a good opportunity to make birdie; I missed it.  I left it short. 
Actually, 15 I had a decent opportunity there. 
16, I had another one. 
17, I kind of shanked it off to the right there.  Then I had another good opportunity.  None of those things went in today.  I didn't get it close enough. 

Q.  Tom, do you build on last year at all?  Do you use that as confidence knowing that you have been there; can you depend on that as a factor?
TOM WATSON:  I can't remember last year.  Last year is history.  What I am thinking about is how am I playing at the moment; what I have to do to play well at the moment.  And that's all I'm thinking about right now.  Last year is history.  I wish I could bring back some of that magic that I had on the back nine.  Maybe it will happen.  I don't know.  Right now I'm just considering how I am playing at the moment.  



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT