U.S. SENIOR OPEN
June 30, 2019
Tom Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TOM WATSON: In the cutting horse world's terms, I made a 7 at No. 4, hit just a terrible second shot, and then compounded that by hitting it over the green and failed to get up-and-down.  So it was -- wasn't very pretty.  Got to birdie the first three holes, and thought, hey, this is going to be good today.   
And then I made a birdie on the tough 5th hole.   
 Q.  What did you hit in there?  
TOM WATSON: 3-wood.   
 Q.  What did you have left?  
TOM WATSON: I had about 250.  I hit it about 15 feet, made it.   
 Q.  As a person who is well liked wherever he goes, how is your support here at Notre Dame?  
TOM WATSON: Well, you know, I support them.  I'm very happy for the people that come out to watch us.  When I was a kid, I liked to show off in front of people, and this is the perfect place -- perfect profession to do it in, where you go out and show your skills.  I hit a few good shots today and hit some really ugly shots today.  Some of the people, like Jack said, he said, people used to want to be like me, and now they are.  And the same way with me.   
 Q.  Your performance this week, was it beyond your expectations or what you thought you might do?  
TOM WATSON: Well, my expectations were pretty low before I -- the couple practice rounds I played I wasn't hitting the ball very well or putting the ball very well.  Then I made a couple adjustments that seemed to work for me, and they worked pretty well.  I was happy about the consistency that I played the first two rounds, and then yesterday I screwed up and I wasn't very consistent today, either.  But I made enough birdies to make up for my mistakes today, and again, broke my age.   
Like I said, I still get a great kick out of shooting my age or breaking it.   
 Q.  The other day you made mention that you made a little adjustment to your putting, and it was kind of working for you.  Was that still working for you?  
TOM WATSON: Yeah, it worked pretty well today.  Yeah, it did.  I made some good strokes and made some good putts today, yeah.  I'm going to stick with it.   
 Q.  The U.S. Senior Open has got Newport Country Club next year.  Is that going to be on your schedule?  
TOM WATSON: It may.  It may.  You know, at this point in my career, I don't know when I'm going to stop playing.  But there will be a time when I stop playing, and I can't determine that right now.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT