PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 7, 2014
Tom Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Jason Dufner withdrew, neck injury, wasn't sure if he would be playing, and Matt Kuchar with a bad back is out?
TOM WATSON:   I understand, they are falling like flies, we really are.   There's time between now and The Ryder Cup, and what's going to happen between now and September 2 when I make my picks is anybody's guess.   It's a guess what I have to do.   I have to take the information that I have, process it, and see what comes out. 

Q.   Does your psychology change at all from, let's say, a month or so ago, to where it is now in regards to what you'd like to see in a pick?   I mean, obviously everybody is getting hurt or something else, but if those guys are playing so well, they would have been on the team already in points.   So did your psychology change a little in regards to what you're looking for?
TOM WATSON:   I'll be honest, there's not too many people are out of the mix.   There's still time now, and there's still time between now and September 2 to show.   There's three tournaments between now and September 2.   I don't know how many tournaments these guys are going to play, but there's still time.   It's anybody's guess who is going to make the team after Sunday this week, too. 
Phil says, "I'm going to make the team, Tom.   I'm going to make the team.   I don't want you to have to use a pick to pick me."   Be honest, straight up.   I like that attitude. 

Q.   Europe for many, many years played on the fact that based on World Rankings and so forth, that they wanted to assume an underdog role.   At this point, I don't think you have to assume you're the underdog going over there with the injuries to your team?
TOM WATSON:   Well, let's see how the team forms up, and then I can give you a good answer on that. 

Q.   But not a bad position to be in, not necessarily low expectations. 
TOM WATSON:   In some ways, again, the team is what it's going to be.   I can't play and I can't comment on how I feel about the team until the team is formulated. 
On Monday I can give you an honest assessment and I will, but I don't know who they are going to be. 

Q.   Your captaincy in the past Ryder Cup, when you went in, what was your approach then and do you think it will have to be considerably different now? 
TOM WATSON:   Have to think about that.   My approach is to put the absolute best pairings together, try to win every point I could.   That was my approach.   I don't think it's changed. 
Again, my reason for my picks was the players who were right after, from 11 to 17, those guys weren't playing very well.   They struggled.   And unfortunately at that time, we had to make a pick right after the PGA, so I don't have the luxury like what we have now. 

Q.   You knew what you were looking for in your top two guys. 
TOM WATSON:   Well, what I was looking for was people that were playing well, and that didn't occur.   I went with experience.   I'm going to go with horses that are running well. 

Q.   Ryan Palmer wasn't in your eyesight in regards to your picks, but if Ryan Palmer wins here, is it more‑‑ would you say it's more important to see a guy earn his way on winning here than having a bunch of Americans finish at fourth, sixth and eight; is winning more important? 
TOM WATSON:   I want the guys who when it comes down to the‑‑ I can't say it again‑‑ it comes down to, I can't say it again. 
I could say some things off the record but right down to who performs under pressure, that's what I'm looking for.   That's what any captain is looking for. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT