THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 25, 2014
Tom Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Mr.Watson, you just finished your round of 66 with no bogeys.   What impressed you most about your play today?  
TOM WATSON:   Well, I think the most is making that 20 foot par.   Started putting pretty well at the end of the day, and at the beginning of the day was a little sporadic, and made a little adjustments on the golf course.   Sometimes they start to roll straighter and truer.   And it's always great to have that putter working.  
   
 Q.   Describe a couple of the highlights for us, the tee shot at 12, the par‑3?  
TOM WATSON:   Yeah, there was a good tee shot there.   The flag is on the very front of the green.   You had to land the ball short of the green in a little pocket.   You don't have much room right or left there.   I decided to take it straight at it.   I hit it just a little bit right of the pin, but it hit and kicked left, and then it broke right up to about a foot from the hole.   So that was nice, and I hit a really good 4‑iron on the next hole.   Big drive.   Because I hit at 18, hit a big drive at 18.   Almost caught cup cake, Freddy up there.   Not bad for us old folks, but 4‑iron I hit at 13 was a quality long iron.   I was not very happy.  
   
 Q.   No one really knows more about links golf than you.   Just put into context Bernhard Langer's 121 under par for two rounds?  
TOM WATSON:   Well, he's run away from the field as he's done so many times, it seems like.   Clearly seems like he's the best player on the Champions Tour.   Colin is certainly making some noise, but day in, day out it's hard to beat Bernhard Langer.  
   
 Q.   You may have to shoot your age.   
TOM WATSON:   If I have no bogeys, if I can continue that run, that would be good.   This golf course has a lot of land mines to it and hope I can avoid them the next two days and shoot some good scores and maybe get within shouting distance.   
   
 Q.   Can he be caught over the next two days?  
TOM WATSON:   Yes.   Yes.   You know, this golf course has some real problems to it if you just get off just a little bit.   
You know, we're playing links golf, and on links golf courses there are bunkers.   And you don't get in the links bunkers off the tee.   
I'm sure he's pretty well, he and Terry have mapped the course out.   
   
 Q.   They're so meticulous.   
TOM WATSON:   They are meticulous.   He prepares better than anybody on the Champions Tour, I think, without a doubt.   
Well, it's not over yet.   He's going to have to fall back and continue to run.   Look what happened to Rory.   He had a six‑shot lead, and he got to two.   Got right there.   He was close.   
   
 Q.   Bernhard and Rory are not quite the same.   
TOM WATSON:   Yeah, Bernhard, you know, one of the things, joking around with Neil Oxman, and I said if I was Paul McKinley, I'd be giving serious consideration to Bernhard Langer.   He can play.   This course isn't too long for Bernhard.  
   
 Q.   No, no.   Yeah.   He should, sounds like.   
TOM WATSON:   Yeah.   That would be interesting, wouldn't it?   That would make a story, wouldn't it?   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT