THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2014
Tom Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  TOM WATSON: It looks like he's running away with it again.  Good drive there.Q. How did you find it today, then?TOM WATSON: Well, the golf course is there for the taking and I gave it away.  I hit it out of bounds once.  I hit it in the really thick rough one time and couldn't move it and made a double there.  And so I gave up four shots with a couple of bad shots there.  And ended up shooting 3-over par.  With no wind out there and soft conditions it was a golf course you could shoot -- you should have been going low.  I went the other direction.  It was a disappointment.Q. (Inaudible.)TOM WATSON: Yeah, again, the weather forecaster isn't exactly right all the time, is he or her, to be politically correct.Q. What did you think about the two-tee start?TOM WATSON: No problem.  I played many two-tee starts in many tournaments in my life.  It's no big deal.Q. (Inaudible.)TOM WATSON: No, the only problem is when you tee off 10, you're in the back of the field.  If I played well, I would have been teeing off normally.  I would have been teeing off the first hole.Q. You played with Rickie in a practice round?TOM WATSON: I did.Q. (Inaudible.)TOM WATSON: He's a fine player.  He's a fiery player.  And he's got a lot of talent.  And I don't know what happened today.  He probably did what I did today, probably had a hiccup somewhere, and made a double bogey or something.  I made double bogey there, too, just hitting a bad tee shot.  Tried to hit it too hard.Q. There seems to be fewer people around for a Saturday?TOM WATSON: When the prediction is rain, you're not going to get a lot of people out there.  Yesterday it was chock a block.  It was full yesterday.  There were a lot of fans out there yesterday.  But you can understand today, they're not going to see the fans today.Q. (Inaudible.)TOM WATSON: Anything can happen on a links golf course.  With all the hazards that this golf course presents, there are a lot of things that can happen.  Just look at what I did today and look at what Rickie did today.  You can make a double bogey very quickly out there.  And it brings you right back to the field.Q. What's the secret to staying healthy?TOM WATSON: Good genes.  Mom and dad gave me good genes.  I keep on saying that, but that's true.Q. (Inaudible.)TOM WATSON: When you walk six miles a day, I mean you're in good nick.  And people forget that.  I've walked 36 miles this week.  That's a lot of walking.  That keeps you in pretty darn good shape walking 36 miles a week.Q. Why are there so few out there at 60?TOM WATSON: There will be in the future.  Don't worry about it, there will be.  People are keeping themselves in good shape.  If you don't get injured and you don't have that injury that really prevents you from making a good golf swing, then you can play a long time.  Look at Sam Snead.  I marveled at Sam's swing.  He was a phenom.  He could hit the ball a long way until he was 75 years old.  He could hit it a long way.  He lost it just after he turned 75.Q. (Inaudible.)TOM WATSON: They were.  They were very kind and generous with their applause today.  I'm disappointed that I didn't show them anything.Q. When you played with Rickie in a practice round, did you have a feeling in your mind that he might be a really good Ryder Cup player?TOM WATSON: He played in one Ryder Cup team.  And as he said, he finished very strongly in his match.  Won the last four holes of his match.  It's pretty good.Q. He and Rory could have some good battles?TOM WATSON: They could, very much so.Q. Do you know much about Bob Torrance that passed away?TOM WATSON: I heard, yeah.  I liked Bob a lot.  Always had a good relationship with Bob.  I think he had a good relationship with everybody.  We're going to miss him.  He was a character, but he knew the golf swing.  And it was always (mumbling) (laughter) and sometimes you could understand him and sometimes you couldn't.  But he was a kind and generous man.  I always enjoyed his company.Q. What did you make of the two-tee start today?TOM WATSON: We've played a lot of two-tee starts over my career.  It's not that big a deal.  It is not a big deal at all.  They did it for safety sake for the weather, and the weather didn't turn bad as they predicted it would.  I assume we had some pretty bad storms to the south of us, didn't we?  They didn't materialize here.  If they materialized on top of this -- we'd be in the lunchroom eating our third meal right now.Q. (Inaudible.)TOM WATSON: I just said hello to him.Q. Anything else to talk about the Ryder Cup?TOM WATSON: I just said hello.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT