THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 5, 2014
Tom Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Another solid round out there today, 2‑under 68.   You're at 3‑under going into Sunday.   Thoughts on how you played today? 
TOM WATSON:   I played a pretty good round of golf today.   I made a few more mistakes today than I made yesterday, but I made up for them.   How many birdies did I make today?   I made four birdies today.   So I'm getting better.   Two, three, and then four in the first three rounds, so maybe I can go lower tomorrow.

Q.   For the layman out there, the guy that hacks it around on the weekends, how much do you practice your short game?   Because all the guys, when I talk to Keegan and Webb, they said, oh, my God, the short game for this guy is out of sight, and I saw it again today.   How much do you practice? 
TOM WATSON:   Well, the short game, I practice it a lot.   I practice my putting a lot.   I practice my chipping a lot.   I used to be really, really good at both of them.   Now I'm just below average now, but I still have to work at it to stay below average.

Q.   Below average for you, not for most of us.   You played with Kyle Stanley today.   What do you think of him as a player?   Because a few years ago he went through some adversity.   He lost that big lead in San Diego, and then came back the next week winning it in Phoenix.   What do you think of Kyle? 
TOM WATSON:   Kyle's got a solid game.   He's very high and long.   He's got a lot of talent.   I was impressed by him today.

Q.   You must feel pretty good about what you were able to accomplish out there today?   How was the course for you? 
TOM WATSON:   I played a good round of golf today.   I made a few mistakes, but I'm getting better at the birdies.   I made two the first day, three the second day, and four today.   So maybe I can go low on the last day on Sunday.

Q.   I think I saw the stat that said the oldest person ever to make a cut was Sam Snead at 67.   To be in that kind of company, how fun is it to hear a stat like that? 
TOM WATSON:   Well, being from the Greenbrier and being here as a pro emeritus, after Sam with the pro emeritus here, there's a lot of history here.   I always admired the way Sam played the game.   He had a marvelous touch and rhythm in his golf swing.   He was my dad's favorite swinger of the golf club.   My dad, when I was growing up, my dad said you have to swing like Snead, son.   You have to swing like Snead.   Well, I never swung like Snead.   I never swung with that type of rhythm.

Q.   Can you allow yourself to think about how you're beating up on guys who are half your age out here and how remarkable that is? 
TOM WATSON:   Well, I don't know how remarkable it is.   I've got a little home‑course advantage here playing in my home course here at the Old White at the Greenbrier, but it's still a tough golf course.   There are certain holes there that really test me from the links standpoint.   I made some good decisions today and couple of bad ones, couple of bad swings, but I got up‑and‑down when I had to, and that was the key to my round today.

Q.   How much are you looking forward to the Open coming up?   Do you feel that your game is in good shape for it? 
TOM WATSON:   I am looking forward to Hoylake at the Open Championship.   I played there a few years back.   It was really hot and really dry and really bouncy.   I understand it's in great shape right now.   Probably a little greener than it was back then.   I love going over to play those nice golf courses.   You never know what you're going to get.   It's like a box of chocolates. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT