SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 22, 2014
Tom Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How did the round go for you?  
TOM WATSON:   It was a good putting round.   I scrambled and made a lot of par putts today and wound up shooting 1‑under par, which is a pretty good round of golf for me today on this golf course.   
I hit some shots in the wrong places, but I, fortunately, got away with ‑‑ made about an 80 foot putt on No. 6 today.   I made several 6‑ or 8‑ or 10‑foot putts to save pars.   So it was one of those scrambling rounds that reminds me of the Watson of old.   
   
 Q.   What is your mentality heading into tomorrow here?  
TOM WATSON:   I hope I can keep the ball a little bit more in play, as far as my iron play is concerned.   
Then continue ‑‑ you got to make up some ground, but the golf course is, as I said yesterday, it's a complicated golf course.   The greens are complicated.   You have to be really careful and in how you play into the greens and you can get in some big trouble.   
   
 Q.   How are you feeling physically now after the first day today?  
TOM WATSON:   I feel great.   I feel great.   Let's go another nine.   
(Laughter.)  
I used to say let's go another 18.   
   
 Q.   Was the pin on 6 way back other way up?  
TOM WATSON:   It was back, center left.   I hit the wrong club, I hit an 8‑iron rather than a 7‑iron, from 154 into the wind and it came back and I had about an 80 foot putt and the putt did exactly what I thought it was going to do.   
It was almost a straight putt, but I said, well if I can get it just a little bit left of the hole, it will fall right at the end and it went up there perfect, started slowing down, falling right, went right in the middle of the hole.   So, happiness there.  
   
 Q.   Monty said you made a long one, he said you're 64, you're allowed to do that.   
TOM WATSON:   Yeah, well you got to do something to make up for your shortness.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT