RBC HERITAGE
April 17, 2014
Tom Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Is this the first time you played with Jordan?  
TOM WATSON:   It is.   He didn't play his best today, but he got the ball up and down.   When you're not playing your best, you have to rely on other parts of your game to score, and that's imperative.   You take a round of golf where you're not playing well and you keep close, things happen; your swing gets better, you get more confident with it and you hit more shots.   That's when you make the run and win golf tournaments.  
   
 Q.   We don't think he's 20 sometimes.   Does he play like a 20‑year‑old?  
TOM WATSON:   He's a mature young man, and I give credit to his parents for that, the way he was brought up.   I guess that's a real tribute to them.  
I like him.   I like the way he approaches the game.   As I said, today wasn't his best day, but he got out of the round with a darn good score on a tough golf course with some wind.   That's what it takes.  
   
 Q.   Is there a part of his game that stood out and impressed you most?  
TOM WATSON:   His short game.   
   
 Q.   Is it more just a course management short game or tough chip shots or pitches or putting?  
TOM WATSON:   Well, when he missed the green he got the ball up and down most of the time.   That's what you have to do.       
   
 Q.   (Inaudible).   
TOM WATSON:   I think it paved the way, because it made me hate losing even more.   And that made me work harder at the problems that I had with my golf game and tried to correct those problems and be a better player under pressure the next time out, or on the course the next time I played that golf course.   
We can accept the bad swings, but we can't accept the mental mistakes.   You hit the wrong club, you hit it in the wrong position, really not thinking.   Those are things that experience teaches you.   And the fewer times you do it, the better chance you have to win.   
   
 Q.   How would you rate your play considering you've won here twice?  
TOM WATSON:   I played some good shots in the middle of the rounds.   And I hit actually a pretty good shot on the 14th hole, par‑3.   Kind of fluffed it out, made double bogey there.       
Bad drive on 15.   It was a scramble for par there.  
Bad drive on 16.   
My birdie on 17 was a little bit of a respite for me.   Bad stretch of golf.   That's what this course will do to you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT