U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 12, 2013
Tom Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MODERATOR:   Tom Watson, even par, 70.  
   
 Q.   How are you feeling?   
TOM WATSON:   I feel okay.   I can't complain.   Let's see.   How many birdies have I made in two days?   I made two birdies in two days and two bogeys.   Has to be a consistency of a lot of pars.   Today was‑‑ actually, it was a pretty good day for scoring for me, and I made some errors with three iron shots.   I hit it fat three times a day.   
Caused a bogey and hit a 9 iron to the par 5 6th hole, made a par there, which is like a bogey.   Hit it fat at No.2 with a sand wedge.   Didn't get off to a good start.   
Hit some quality iron shots the last nine holes, but didn't get any putts to drop, except on 11.   Hit an 8 iron.   Made it from about 30 feet at 11, which is a nice putt to make, especially after leaving all my putts short today.   
Had a couple of opportunities.   There's a little stretch there, 13, 14, 15, you can get a little run there.   You can see some of the guys shooting from low scores in those holes, kind of get you back.   Of course, you got the holes like‑‑ actually, 10 played downwind today, and it wasn't as tough as it was yesterday.   But I still made par there yesterday.   
A few holes there that I think the shot I like the best today, I hit a 3 wood for my second shot at No.8.   Short of the hole from about 40 feet, 45 feet.   I hit a quality shot.   Hit some real good quality shots.   Didn't get the ball in the hole.   Caused a problem here and there.   Overall, I was pretty happy about the way I played.  
   
 Q.   What's the divot situation with the way I played?   
TOM WATSON:   There are some divots.   13, in particular.   Got to worry about that.   Actually, you can't worry about it.   If it's in the divot, it's in the divot.   Can't worry about that.   We've played out of divots before, and we'll play out of divots again.   No big deal.  
   
 Q.   What did you find on the range that maybe made some difference?   
TOM WATSON:   I have to say I didn't warm up very well, but I played better when I warmed up.   The bell rung, and something kicked in, and I went back to‑‑ went back to maybe just playing by feel.   That's the best way to do it sometimes.   You struggle a little bit with your golf swing, just play by feel here.   
Just not get too tight with the grip pressure and just make some nice swings, and I did it a few times.   Got some good results.  
   
 Q.   When you see guys bunch between 4 and 5 and you see guys at 10 under, what are your thoughts on that?   
TOM WATSON:   He's pulling away from the field, obviously.   Michael's‑‑ he's a solid player.   He plays well in the wind.   He can really play.   This golf course‑‑ you know, with the short par 4s, as you said, there are some birdies out there.   Of course, he eagled the 14th hole, I saw on the board.   That's a long hole for me to get there in two, but he's long enough where he must have knocked it on there and made a nice putt.   
That's how you win golf tournaments right there.  
   
 Q.   Tom, did you put your glove in the laundry with that shirt?   
TOM WATSON:   I did.  
   
 Q.   What's the significance of that glove?   
TOM WATSON:   Coordination.   That's the significance.   If it was orange, it wouldn't be coordinated very well, would it?   
   
 Q.   Is that pink or fuschia‑‑  
TOM WATSON:   Pink.   Guys don't know fuschia.   We don't know things like that.   It's pink.  
   
 Q.   Thank you.   
TOM WATSON:   Thanks.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT