U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 11, 2013
Tom Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MODERATOR:   Next on flash, at even par 70 today, Tom Watson. 
TOM WATSON:   Hello, everybody.

Q.   How was the round? 
TOM WATSON:   Well, the one birdie, one bogey, not a lot of excitement out there.   I actually have‑‑ the one thing I did very well today was my lag putt.   I didn't hit the ball very well with my irons.   Even though I was in the fairway most of the time, I didn't get it very close to the hole at all today.   And I had left myself lots of funny putts. 
You know, the long putts with some break, and I did a real good job of lag putting and finishing the deal on the green.   That was the positive.
The negative, my iron play wasn't very good, and I struggled there, so that was the problem today.   Couple good iron shots.   One at 18, and another at No. 7, the par 3.   5 iron.   I guess I better keep practicing with the 5 iron.   A lot of the other irons didn't work well today.

Q.   On the first day of the Major, to have a low drama day, is that okay? 
TOM WATSON:   Well, I would have liked to have been a little more positive about my iron play talking to you, but I'm going to go out and work on it right now.   See if I can find something that's going to work tomorrow and the next day.

Q.   When you see a newcomer, a new guy come out like Colin Montgomerie, are you curious a little bit how he's going to do, seeing a fresh face out here? 
TOM WATSON:   It is curious about Colin because Colin hasn't been playing very much in recent years.   He's been commentating, been doing a lot of TV.   And how much has he been playing?   Not a whole lot. 
But he still has it.   He still hits some real quality shots, a beautiful shot at 7, and a beautiful shot at 8 with a long club in his hand.   He can still get it.   He made some good putts out there.   So he's going to be a force to contend with, not a question.

Q.   Tom, maybe one thing that stood out about the course today for you. 
TOM WATSON:   Well, it's still uphill.   It's uphill getting to the tees.   The course, I guess the one surprising thing is that the greens are a little softer and a little slower than I thought they'd probably be for a U.S. Senior Open. 
But with the type of weather we have here and the type of grass, it probably is a judicious thing to do to keep them a little softer and a little slower.

Q.   It wasn't super hot today, but how do you feel after walking the hills? 
TOM WATSON:   After the first round, Bill, I played on Tuesday, I was worn out.   I shouldn't have gone 18 on Tuesday, 103 heat index.   That really wore me out. 
I'm okay.   I'm okay.   This old body still has a little bit of spring left.   Those uphill shots are not as easy as they used to be, though.   Hitting the ball actually up the hill because, when you're hitting the ball uphill, you've got to drive into the ball like that, and you're going against gravity there. 
And used to be easy as a kid.   It's not quite as easy anymore.   Hit behind a couple of other shots today.

Q.   You drove it in the rough and didn't even hesitate about just getting it back in. 
TOM WATSON:   Yeah, there was nothing I could do there.   I hit a few good shots today, but most‑‑ for the most part, my shots weren't very solid today.   But one good thing about it was that I got about the best score I possibly could out of my round today.   I had a couple of putts I could have made, but not like last week.   The first couple rounds last week, I could have shot really well the first two rounds last week at The Greenbrier.   Came up empty.
Today, I got‑‑ that's the game.   I got everything out of my round today that I possibly could get out to shoot 70.

Q.   You're real familiar with the Midwest galleries, obviously.   What was your impression?   And could you tell maybe they hadn't seen professional golf for, you know, a while? 
TOM WATSON:   Well, they're newbies.   They're newbie, a lot of them.   It's great to see such big crowds out here.   This is wonderful.   It's great to play in front of people that are out here to watch you play. 
I wish I could have performed better to give a little bit more bang for their buck out there.   I didn't perform all that well today.

Q.   Good conversation between players out there, the legends? 
TOM WATSON:   The legends, yeah.   No, we had some conversation out there.   We were out there conducting business, but we still had a few conversations out there today.   It's not unusual to talk a little bit about some other things, but usually it's related to the golf course or tournament, something like that.   Doesn't stray too far from that in that group. 
Now, if it was Trevino, it would be something different.   I miss him.   I wish he was here. 

Q.   So do we.   Thank you. 
TOM WATSON:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT