SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 24, 2013
Tom Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Well, it was interesting.   
TOM WATSON:   It was a lot different.   Today I hit every fairway and hit a lot of good shots today.   But then I 3‑putted twice, I hit the ball in the water twice‑‑ and one was a good shot, one was an awful shot‑‑ and I shot even par.   
I'm pretty happy about the score, the way that I‑‑ after two water balls, there's three shots right there, so and two 3‑putts‑‑ so it could have been a decent round, if I didn't make those lousy shots.   But that's the game.   
   
 Q.   Tried to hit a driver off the ground you said on 8?  
TOM WATSON:   Yeah, I had good success at 4.   Hit it right off the deck on the green at 4.   And then I 3‑putted that.   
And at 8 I said, I can do the same thing.   8, I had a perfect lie on the upslope and hit a foot behind it into the water.   
But I played some‑‑ I drove the ball well today.   That was, that sets you up.   The water balls certainly hurt, but that was, that was the big negative.   
Couple of 3‑putt.   One was a real long 3‑putt, but again I didn't have very good speed on either of the 3‑putt.   I left it, in fact, I had one at 15 I left about eight feet short from about 60 feet.   And, but I made that 8‑footer.   
So it was a ‑‑ I'm a little bit more satisfied with my round today, but I'm not as satisfied with the score as I was yesterday.   Sometimes you just have to have a day like yesterday to say, well, you know what, you can still do it when you're playing cruddy.   And use some other tools in your tool box, like your putter, as I did yesterday, to make it happen.   And that's what happened yesterday.   
That's kind of the way I used to do it.   Hit it all over the lot and hit, miss seven fairways or hit seven fairways and shoot 2‑under par.   That's kind of the way I used to do it.  
   
 Q.   Watson golf in the old days?  
TOM WATSON:   Yeah.   Today was a little bit better.  
   
 Q.   You just have to merge the two, take the best of each day and you got something.   
TOM WATSON:   That's what I'm trying to do.   If I could putt the way I did the first day the next two days and drive the ball and hit some quality irons like I did today, I may have a chance.  
   
 Q.   I think three or four hamburgers ought to do the trick.   
TOM WATSON:   God, they smell good here, they really do.   No, it's a difficult golf course.   I have a great respect for the golf course.   The greens, there's certain holes like 10, 10 is a very tough hole.   I parred it both days.   Yesterday I hit it out of the trees and made par.   And today I hit it on to the green, just on the back fringe and I had to chip it.   And I made par there.   So any time you make a par at 10, unfortunately good.   
Then at 6, the par‑3, I hit a beautiful shot in there with a 3‑iron about 12 feet, but didn't make the putt.   So again that was a quality shot compared to yesterday, when I rope hooked a 4‑iron left of the green and made bogey.   
   
 Q.   What did you do at 11?   Did you go safe or bold?  
TOM WATSON:   It wasn't even a question.   You can't ‑‑ you know, there was no reason to go with the driver there.   Now if I was John Daly I would probably hit my 3‑wood.   But no, there's just too much danger up there.   That's not the hole to take the risk.   And I made birdie anyway, so.   I took all the element of risk out of it and made a birdie and it was an easy par if not.  
   
 Q.   This is your part of the country, although Kansas City and St. Louis aren't exactly next door.   
TOM WATSON:   Well, no, we're across the straight from each other.   There's a little rivalry between the two cities.   Don Denkinger was our friend in the 1985 World Series, against the St. Louis Cardinals, and I continually ask the people here in St. Louis, do they remember Don Denkinger and they get angry at me.   Yes, they do, they remember Don.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT