MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2013
Tom Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What was it like out there today with the conditions?
TOM WATSON:   Well, it actually was playing pretty easy, really.   The conditions were good.   Wasn't any wind.   I felt the flag positions were, they were fairly tough, but, again, with no wind, it should have been a little bit easier than 79 for me. 

Q.   Can you tell us about your birdie?
TOM WATSON:   I birdied number 3.   Yeah.   I hit a hybrid off the tee and I hit a gap wedge to about, I would say about 15 feet and holed it.   Made a nice shot in there.   It was one of the tough really pins, the very front right.   But thanks for asking about the birdie.   That was the only one all day.   I appreciate that. 
(Laughter.)

Q.   I had an equipment question.   I got in a discussion with somebody and I seem to recall the year, the British Open when you went over and they lost your clubs on the way over.   And you ended up at least playing some practice rounds with borrowed clubs?   Does this ring a bell at all?
TOM WATSON:   I can't recall.   I remember a lot of players losing their clubs going over there, yeah.   But in recent history, going through Heathrow, there were 30 bags that didn't show up there three or four years ago. 

Q.   I wanted to see if you remembered that.   For some reason I had a recollection that you even played rounds with borrowed clubs. 
TOM WATSON:   I may have. 

Q.   And you may have won. 
TOM WATSON:   I wish I could remember.   Don't tax my memory.   You know I can't remember stuff like that. 

Q.   On Sunday, the philosophy on going for 13 and 15.   Tell me a little bit about your mindset and obviously the goal is to get on the green in two and have a good putt. 
TOM WATSON:   Well, I think if the flag is in the back of 13 it's a good play to go for it, for my distance. 
And 15, it just depends on really how you feel at 15.   15 is the one where you can make a couple mistakes and make a double or triple there and then that will put you out of the tournament.

Q.   What about the layup shots in there.   Those aren't any bargains, those wedges in there. 
TOM WATSON:   Well, not really, but one of the things that has changed here is the condition of the turf.   The turf here is now very bristly and the ball sits up on the turf versus before it used to lay down in the turf. 
And we used to have, especially on those down slopes and side slopes, you would have that ball sitting just enough down where you really had to hit a, you really had to catch it perfectly.   Now those little downhill wedge shots to 15, it's a tough shot.   A lot of people hit it fat there. 

Q.   The other question, take you back to 1975, you're paired in the final round with Jack and you had the great shoot‑out.   What did you take away from that day?   I know you went on to win the British Open that summer and win eight Majors overall, but talk about that. 
TOM WATSON:   Well, two things.   Two things.   I watched Jack win.   I made seven at 16, but I was within two or three shots at that time.   And I played well. 
After it was over, I birdied the 18th the hole, actually hit it in the fairway bunker and birdied 18.   And I just had a feeling that I could play this course, after playing my first professional tournament here. 
And I had the feeling actually after I played as an amateur.   I had a chance to make the cut there and I didn't do very well at 13, I hit a 6‑iron in the water for my second shot and made seven.   And I missed the cut by three. 
But that '75, it kind of, I played well, except for the quadruple bogey at 16.

Q.   What you did do on that hole?
TOM WATSON:   I hit, I pulled my first one kind of toe fat into the water.   And I got out with an 8‑iron.   I did the same thing today. 

Q.   How impossible was that putt that Jack made on the green that day?
TOM WATSON:   It's not impossible.   I almost made it today.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT