THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 29, 2012
Tom Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Tell us about how you played. 
TOM WATSON:   Got off to a shaky start.   I made some great saves at No. 4 and No. 5 for pars.   I got on a roll and hit all of the greens after that, and really hit a lot of quality shots on the back nine and didn't make a putt but I was very happy about the way I struck the ball for the first time in the five weeks I've been out here on the road.   So that's an omen I hope for good things to come.

Q.   You know about bringing it home, the lead at Turnberry here, and Freddie Couples has a one‑shot lead with five holes to go.   How difficult is it?
TOM WATSON:   The holes that he has to play are tough.   He's got to negotiate 14 into the wind.   That's a tough drive there.   15 with the crosswind on the par3 is tricky and of course 16 with burn in front, anything can happen there.   They have a good, tight, front left pin position right over the burn. 
Once you get past 16, you should be able to‑‑ usually come in with par, 1‑under par.   But those three holes right there, 14, 15, 16, are going to be the toughest.

Q.   So many wonderful memories for you here at Turnberry and The Open Championship is not due back for five years and the Senior Open at least two; might we see you again? 
TOM WATSON:   As long as my body holds out and I can still hit the ball the way I think I should, I still have delusions of grandeur at times, and sometimes my swing operates the way I want it to.   For the most part, in this five‑week stretch, my swing didn't really work very well.   As I said, I did it with a lot of smoke and mirrors, making the cuts at The Open Championship, and then at the Greenbrier, I guess the kids, a couple weeks before that. 
My play wasn't very good, but I'm going to take some good thoughts from what I did here in the last 27 holes with my golf swing and build upon that.   Hope next time I play, I'll be vying for the lead, not playing for 20th place. 
It's amazing how you hit some decent shots when you hit it on the clubface.

Q.   So gives you confidence for the next event? 
TOM WATSON:   It does.   Back home and work on my body.   My body's got some issues that I need to address. 

Q.   So you don't know when you're last competitive round will be here, but would you like it to be an Open rather than a Senior Open? 
TOM WATSON:   It really doesn't matter whether it's The Open, Senior Open or just a friendly.   I love this place. 

Q.   Any thoughts of the Open rather than the Senior Open‑‑
TOM WATSON:   Well, I want to play Hoylake two years from now.   That's what I'm eligible for.   We'll just play it by ear, as my dad used to say, the piano player. 

Q.   Tell us about a good week here?
TOM WATSON:   I played with Carl Mason today and he played a wonderful round of golf today, and 66, played a solid, solid round.   I played a good round of golf for myself today, too.   I was very happy with the way I played.   Wish I had putted‑‑ but that's the old wail of the forgotten golfers, missing putts. 
But being back at Turnberry, it's a beautiful spot and has a lot of significance to me and my career.   I love playing here.

Q.   Carl was praise‑worthy as well, saying you make it look so easy. 
TOM WATSON:   It was a good day.   I didn't struggle today like I've been struggling for the last five weeks.   I hope that's an omen for things to come.

Q.   So many memories, and I presume back to 2003 when you and Carl had that show down. 
TOM WATSON:   One of those things that happens in golf and is always going to happen.   But played a solid round today, and who knows what 4‑under is going to do.   The leaders, looking at something under par, but playing 14, 15 and 16, those are treacherous holes at Turnberry.   You can make some big numbers on those holes. 

Q.   When you look at that leaderboard, do you find satisfaction to see your name in a nice, prominent position? 
TOM WATSON:   I wish I could say I was happy with my finish today.   I left some strokes out there today.   Although I made up for it a couple of times getting some great up‑and‑downs at 4 and 5.   Hit the ball beautifully on the back side, and that's the disappointment that you always carry with you when you play a round of golf.   You can shoot a 62 and say, God, I could have shot a 60.   You know how it goes. 

Q.   Sticky toffee pudding tonight?
TOM WATSON:   I had it last night.   Delicious.   It's a special spot to me.   I love coming here.   I'll be back. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT