VIZIO BCS NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP GAME: AUBURN v FLORIDA STATE
January 3, 2014
Nick O'Leary
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   When did you guys get into town?   
NICK O'LEARY:   The 31st, I think?   
   
 Q.   Have you received your draft feedback, yet?   
NICK O'LEARY:   Waiting until after the game.   
   
 Q.   Is that a conscious decision to not think about that stuff?   
NICK O'LEARY:   Not, I'm not really worried about it too much.   
   
 Q.   Golf is a mental sport.   How much have you talked with your grandfather about the mental side of sports, the mental side of winning over the years?   
NICK O'LEARY:   We don't talk about it that much.   We play golf every once in a while and never get into it that much.   He's complimentary when we talk about.  
   
 Q.   Does he skunk you on the golf course?   
NICK O'LEARY:   He's still a good golfer.   
   
 Q.   When was the last time you shaved?   
NICK O'LEARY:   I'm not sure about.  
   
 Q.   Is this a conscious effort with the offensive line?   
NICK O'LEARY:   No, I get it off my face right after the game.   
   
 Q.   Driving you nuts?   
NICK O'LEARY:   It's not driving me nuts I'm just ready to get it off.   
   
 Q.   Is this the not shaving until the national title deal?   
NICK O'LEARY:   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   So you haven't shaved all season?   
NICK O'LEARY:   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   When does it get past the itchy point?   
NICK O'LEARY:   It's not there anymore.   
   
 Q.   Are you conscious of it?   
NICK O'LEARY:   You get hit and the chin strap comes around it goes up in your mouth.   (Chuckles.)  
   
 Q.   But you love it right?   
NICK O'LEARY:   Love it.   
   
 Q.   What is your relationship with your grandfather?   Do you golf every once in a while.  
NICK O'LEARY:   They come to every game, we talk after every game.   When we go home at their house.   We have a really good relationship.   Just like anybody else's granddad.   
   
 Q.   Has this week sunk in?  
NICK O'LEARY:   Yeah, I know it's important, but it's just another game.   
   
 Q.   How has Jameis handled the notoriety that has come with what he's been through?   
NICK O'LEARY:   He thinks it's funny.   It's not going to get to his head.   
   
 Q.   Do you realize when you thought he was not a typical freshman?   
NICK O'LEARY:   The first game.   He came out and blew 25 or 26 something like that against Pitt.   That's when I knew we had a special quarterback.   
   
 Q.   You had seen something before that?   
NICK O'LEARY:   Him and Jay Coker, they were dead even in two‑a‑day and No. 1 knew who the starting quarterback was going to be and after that, he went off from there.   
   
 Q.   How fierce was that competition?   Everybody assumes Jameis was the guy?  
NICK O'LEARY:   They were both doing the same thing, and they gave it to Jameis and Coker was proud of him and that's just the way it went.   
   
 Q.   When you look at Auburn, what do you think?   
NICK O'LEARY:   Their offensive line is good and their defense is good but I think we will be able to do what we have been doing all season.   
   
 Q.   What makes your receivers stand out so well?   You guys all come from a great season.   What makes you stand out?  
NICK O'LEARY:   We run our routes, think we're getting our ball on our play.   If one person is getting the ball the other person is still running the route to get him open.   We just all work together out there.   
   
 Q.   You got a bunch of yards Auburn has givin up this year.   You guys kinda lick your chops a little bit?   Not give up as many yards?  
NICK O'LEARY:   I haven't been looking at the stats they put out, I've barely watched the games this year.   
   
 Q.   You don't watch?  
NICK O'LEARY:   I mean I watch film.   I don't watch that, I watch who I've gotta block, and who's blockin' me.   55, he's a strong guy, 30's pretty good around the edges.   
   
 Q.   You guys played some good "D" ends, how good is this group as a line?   I know you're part of the line, too, how tight of a group is this?   
NICK O'LEARY:   I mean, they do everything together.   Before every game that's on their‑‑ if it's every Thursday before a game we all go out to dinner, we all go out together.   We're as tight of a group as any.   
   
 Q.   Tight group?   
NICK O'LEARY:   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   Do people get terrified you all come together?   
NICK O'LEARY:   No.   
   
 Q.   The "O" line guys, are you an official member?   
NICK O'LEARY:   I try to believe so.   
   
 Q.   Do they tease you?   
NICK O'LEARY:   No, we're all real close friends.   
   
 Q.   How is the chemistry different with the new coaches as opposed to the old ones?   
NICK O'LEARY:   There really wasn't that big of a difference.   We just grew better bonds with these coaches.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
NICK O'LEARY:   It was tough in the beginning but once we got to know each other and how everybody likes to be coached and what we listen to, after that it was fun.   
   
 Q.   The motorcycle accident this summer, what happened there?   Did you walk away unscathed?   
NICK O'LEARY:   I was riding down the road and this person pulled out in front of me and pretty much I had no where to go other than straight into it.   I just jumped off the bike right before I hit the car.   I didn't die.   
   
 Q.   What were your injuries?   
NICK O'LEARY:   I sprained my ankle and that was it just a couple of scrapes.   
   
 Q.   When you got up were you thinking, I can't believe I just got up from that?"   
NICK O'LEARY:   Not really.   It kinda just ‑‑ didn't really bother me.   I wasn't nervous or scared or nothing.   I just walked over to the side and once I got there I sat down and when the ambulance and the cops started coming, that's when it kicked in my ankle started hurting.   
   
 Q.   Have you watched the video?   
NICK O'LEARY:   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   What was it like?   
NICK O'LEARY:   The video doesn't show what I saw.   What I saw is there was nowhere to go and as soon as I hit that thing‑‑ there was actually a van behind it that my left leg hit the van and spun me in five circles before I got up.   
   
 Q.   Jameis said after he saw the video he asked if you were a robot, what do you say?   
NICK O'LEARY:   I don't remember him saying that.   
   
 Q.   How did it make you feel about riding a bike again.  
NICK O'LEARY:   I'm not scared of bikes.   
   
 Q.   Do you ride still?   
NICK O'LEARY:   I got a dirt bike.   
   
 Q.   Did Jimbo say anything about riding the bike on the streets?  
NICK O'LEARY:   He actually thought it was a scooter for a little while.   
   
 Q.   Is there any part of you disappointed or was there any discussion about playing Ohio State with your grandfather?   
NICK O'LEARY:   Between me and him there wasn't anything.   He thought it would be cool, I thought it would be pretty cool but I'm glad we're playing Auburn, the SEC school.   
   
 Q.   Pretty sure he would have pulled for Florida State?   
NICK O'LEARY:   I'm sure.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
NICK O'LEARY:   A while ago, I think it was the beginning of the season after two‑a‑days.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
NICK O'LEARY:   The 7th.   
   
 Q.   About ready?   
NICK O'LEARY:   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   What's that been‑‑ why are you ready?   
NICK O'LEARY:   Just ready to get it off my face.   
   
 Q.   How much guys decided they were not going to shave?   
NICK O'LEARY:   Stork and another guy, Ryan Hoefeld.   
   
 Q.   Uncomfortable?   
NICK O'LEARY:   It was uncomfortable at the itchy stage but now it's fine.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
NICK O'LEARY:   He had to do it for that award.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
NICK O'LEARY:   No, he still got me.   
   
 Q.   You said you were happy to be playing an SEC team.   Would you buy into the concept that you're playing for everybody in college football, stopping that streak?   
NICK O'LEARY:   Yeah, they always brag about it and I think we're the best team in the country and we had a tough schedule just like everybody else.   We're going to go to in there and show 'em how the ACC really is.   
   
 Q.   The stats, people say they might not be very good.   When you look at the team why would you say that would be the team to beat?   
NICK O'LEARY:   I really don't get into that.   I just play my position and they have to be good somewhere.   They have a good defense but they give up big plays.   They're good enough.   
   
 Q.   How do you see yourself in this offense?   What's your role?   
NICK O'LEARY:   I do a lot of blocking and I catch the amount of balls I'm happy for, and it's‑‑ I think it's an awesome offense to play for.   
   
 Q.   Why is that?   
NICK O'LEARY:   I mean, I'm doing both things, I'm moving around a lot, I'm in the slot, I just‑‑ I catch a lot of balls and also block off the ball and on the ball.   
   
 Q.   You like to block?   
NICK O'LEARY:   Yeah, I like blocking.   
   
 Q.   Always been a good pass catcher?   
NICK O'LEARY:   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   How did you develop that skill?   
NICK O'LEARY:   It just came natural to me.   
   
 Q.   Why do you like blocking?   
NICK O'LEARY:   Hitting.   I loved to hit as a kid, also.   
   
 Q.   Did you always just play football?   
NICK O'LEARY:   I played La Crosse in high school.   I didn't start playing football until I was in 6th grade.   My dad let me when I started at the school.   
   
 Q.   La Crosse after that?   
NICK O'LEARY:   Started La Crosse my 9th grade year.   
   
 Q.   Did you think about playing that?   
NICK O'LEARY:   I had a couple of offers for La Crosse that, I was talking to Maryland for La Crosse and I got my first letter from Cornell but I wasn't going there.   
   
 Q.   Too cool for you?   
NICK O'LEARY:   Different type of school.   
   
 Q.   Why did you pick Florida State?   
NICK O'LEARY:   Actually I just liked football a lot better and...La Crosse just gettin hit with a stick every play, didn't like it too much.  
   
 Q.   How often do you play golf?   
NICK O'LEARY:   Three times a week when the season is over.   I play a lot.   
   
 Q.   Did you ever pursue that?   
NICK O'LEARY:   No because football and golf are the same season in high school.   
   
 Q.   Are you decent?   
NICK O'LEARY:   Pretty good.   
   
 Q.   Handicap?   
NICK O'LEARY:   When I play a lot I will shoot 74, 76.   
   
 Q.   Pretty good.   A little bit!   (Chuckles.)  
NICK O'LEARY:   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   What's your earliest memory of playing golf with your grandfather?   
NICK O'LEARY:   When I was little, real little.   We took lessons at the golf course when we were young.   
   
 Q.   Do you remember the first time you hit it by him?   
NICK O'LEARY:   Last time we played.   
   
 Q.   What was the first time you hit a‑‑ what?   
NICK O'LEARY:   Two or three years ago.  
   
 Q.   Did you point it out to him?   
NICK O'LEARY:   Oh yea!   For sure.   (Laughter.)  
   
 Q.   You think he takes a lot of pride in the name you've made for yourself?  
NICK O'LEARY:   He likes it yeah.   He would rather me make my name for myself than his name.   
   
 Q.   Is it a reference point with guys your age at all or has too much time passed?   
NICK O'LEARY:   What do you mean.  
   
 Q.   Do they have recognition of who he is, what he's done?   
NICK O'LEARY:   They know, but I'm not going to be like, yeah, my Grandpa is Jack Nicholas.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
NICK O'LEARY:   No, I don't let 'em know if they don't know.   
   
 Q.   Do you take pride in when people call you "Old school" and "Throwback"?  
NICK O'LEARY:   I don't care.   Just play, yeah.   
   
 Q.   What you guys doing over there on the side lines?   
NICK O'LEARY:   We're watching our positions and when they come off the field let 'em know if they need help on anything.   We still stay in the game.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
NICK O'LEARY:   Yeah, yeah.   
   
 Q.   Does that help you guys at the end of the year because your bodies haven't played so many snaps?   
NICK O'LEARY:   We still play a lot of snaps, but, I mean, we're in condition.   We're ready for four quarters.   
   
 Q.   You notice any difference in how beat up you are?   
NICK O'LEARY:   We're still banged up just like everybody else.   
   
 Q.   There was a game last couple years that Florida State, truth be told, should have won.   What's the difference in the past two years with you guys stepping up in the game?   
NICK O'LEARY:   We're just not letting anything get in our way anymore.   
We're playing all out for four quarts and doing what we need to do to get to this point.   
   
 Q.   Is there something about your confidence that shifted?   
NICK O'LEARY:   Jameis keeps everybody's confidence up all the time.   He's a great leader for us and he let us everybody know we're here to win the National Championship and it's the reason we're here.   
   
 Q.   How does he do that?   His words?   Actions?   
NICK O'LEARY:   He messes around a lot and everything he says is messing around but at the same time you know he's dead serious.   It's fun to listen to and respect it.   
   
 Q.   When did you realize he was different as far as a quarterback?  
NICK O'LEARY:   In the first game.   
   
 Q.   The Pitt game?   
NICK O'LEARY:   Right.   
   
 Q.   When that happens‑‑ (Away from mic.)   
NICK O'LEARY:   We knew we were going to have a good quarterback when that happened.   
   
 Q.   Were you surprised?   
NICK O'LEARY:   Not really.   He had a great camp and I wasn't surprised he did as well as did he.   
   
 Q.   Are you surprised he did that well without spring practice?   
NICK O'LEARY:   I mean, yeah.   He was playing baseball and he was still out there in the spring.   He had all summer for seven on sevens, working out, so I mean, he had a lot of time.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
NICK O'LEARY:   It wasn't like last year.   This year it was totally different.   
   
 Q.   Is that the way he treats the game?   
NICK O'LEARY:   Yeah, he's just‑‑ like he knows where to go with the ball all the time.   
   
 Q.   Is there one or two times during a game on the side lines that he's impressed you?   
NICK O'LEARY:   I mean, he's impressed me a lot.   I actually wasn't on the field to see that Boston college throw to Kenny, end of half, but I heard that was pretty amazing then.   He impresses me a lot.   The Maryland one, I didn't even know where he was when he scrambled out, almost got sacked and threw it to me in the end zone.   I didn't even know where he was when he rolled out and threw it up.   
   
 Q.   How is he able to do that stuff?   Is it a physical tool or‑‑  
NICK O'LEARY:   He's just a really athletic kid.   Great quarterback, very athletic and gets out of things other people can't.   
   
 Q.   Have you heard back from the draft?   
NICK O'LEARY:   No, not yet.   Wouldn't until after the game anyway.   
   
 Q.   (No Microphone.)   
NICK O'LEARY:   We would have killed them.   
   
 Q.   40 points?   
NICK O'LEARY:   No, I don't know.   They're a great defense.   We're a really good offense and they're a good defense and it would be close.   
   
 Q.   Thoughts on the defense maybe being overlooked behind what the offense has done, do you think the defense deserves credit?   
NICK O'LEARY:   I think our starting defense has even let a rushing touchdown happen this year, that's pretty amazing.   No rushing touchdown all season.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
NICK O'LEARY:   Just from being around the stadium all the time and seven on sevens, we grew a bond and never looked back.   
   
 Q.   The Pitt game almost resembled a seven on seven.   When you got on the field were you surprised how that transferred over?   
NICK O'LEARY:   They just‑‑ I mean, I had four catches that game and three of them were touchdowns.   He's pretty much just throwin' to the open guy.   If somebody else was open he probably would have thrown to someone else, but he threw to me, they blew coverage a couple of times.   He was just throwing to the open guy all the time.   
   
 Q.   No a lot of folks have entertained a 19 year old being under center for an NFL team, do you assume that can happen?   
NICK O'LEARY:   He's 19 now?   
   
 Q.   19, turns 20 on Monday.   
NICK O'LEARY:   I feel like he has anything to be a NFL quarterback.   He can move, throw the ball.   He throws the ball 80 yards.   I can throw the ball 55 yards.   
   
 Q.   Beyond the body though there is too much‑‑ even in a college game there is leadership, checks, everything.   What beyond the body?   
NICK O'LEARY:   His leadership.   It's unbelievable.   He messes around a little bit and when he talks most of the time he's still messing around but everybody knows he's being serious and we listen to him.   It's amazing we listen to him as much as he goofs around.   
   
 Q.   Knowing how hard it is to play any position, what he's done as a freshman, how incredible is that to you?   
NICK O'LEARY:   I think it's awesome for us.   As good as he's done this year, it's just‑‑ going to the National Championship especially with him being a freshman, I think he just has‑‑ it's amazing.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
NICK O'LEARY:   No, the quarterbacks are messing around and I just saw him throw it and K.B. also throws the ball 80 yards.   
   
 Q.   Really?   
NICK O'LEARY:   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
NICK O'LEARY:   I mean, he just‑‑ I don't know, he is so open about everything.   He always messes around and everything he says is serious pretty much and everybody listens.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT