UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 19, 2012
Luke Poehlmann
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






Q.   Hard to believe this is it?
LUKE POEHLMANN:   Yeah, it hasn't really hit me yet actually, but I don't know, yeah, it is. 

Q.   Are you an emotional guy?   Do you think you'll get emotional Thursday night?
LUKE POEHLMANN:   I mean, I'm an emotional guy just because I love the game and I enjoy playing football, and this place is a special place, and I will miss it.   But I don't want to put too much emphasis on it because it is just another game, and I want to approach it just like that and enjoy the moment. 

Q.   Are you missing the Aggies this week?
LUKE POEHLMANN:   No, it's just a really‑‑ honestly it's just a blessing to play on Thanksgiving.   I think that's always been a cool tradition around here, and I'm thankful to just get to play on Thanksgiving, and whoever our opponent is, I'm excited to play them. 

Q.   What do you know about these Frogs?
LUKE POEHLMANN:   They're a really good bunch.   They play really hard.   They're a great football team, and I've watched a little film on them, and they have great defense, and I'm excited, it's going to be a great challenge for us. 

Q.   We've been asking the offensive linemen, you guys have given up one sack in the last four or five games.   Is that a measure of success how great the line plays?
LUKE POEHLMANN:   Yeah, I think that's part of it, but part of it is moving the ball and part of it is how well we're playing as a team because obviously if your offensive line does a great job and we're not winning games, then it doesn't really matter. 

Q.   If I would have told you after the OU game you guys would still have a shot at winning the Big 12 title, I'm sure you would have wanted to cut my legs off and call me shorty, but now you're back in the mix.   For a senior how encouraging is it that you guys still have a lot‑‑ there's a lot at stake in the last two games?
LUKE POEHLMANN:   Well, honestly I don't think there's more at stake than there ever was.   You're right, I wouldn't have saw that coming after playing OU, but at the same time I think it's a testament to this team how well we've been able to like come back and keep playing football because we love football and because we get to play a game.   And that's all there is to it. 
Things have gone our way, and we've won quite a few since we've played OU, and it's been great.   I think that's a great focus thing to look at is how well our team has played.   We didn't know we would have a chance at the end of the season, but all we knew is we're going to go back to work and do the best we can, and that's what we've done, and it's played out well for us.   Now we are sitting in a position that that is a possibility, but that's all it is, just a possibility, and my hope is that we will just go back to work and keep doing the same things we've been doing, and hopefully at the end of the season we'll be able to look up when the dust clears and there will be something great there for us. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
LUKE POEHLMANN:   I have no idea.   Wherever the coach asks me to play and wherever the team needs me the most is where I'm going to line up at.   It's just a blessing just to be able to play football.   I don't really care where.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT