UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 5, 2012
Luke Poehlmann
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 Q.   What are your thoughts on Iowa State?   
LUKE POEHLMANN:   They're a really good football team as far as I can tell.   We tried to play them because it's going to be a really good challenge for us especially on offense.  
   
 Q.   The situation in Lubbock, beating a top 25 team (Indiscernible).   What do you have to do to make sure that doesn't happen again this year?   
LUKE POEHLMANN:   Well, I think we do what we've done every week which is prepare for that team, work hard and stay focused.   I don't think that the time of day or the fact that something similar happened a couple of years ago.   It's something to be aware of, but at the same time this is a very different team completely.   Not just Iowa State, but also ours.   We're a completely different team than we were then.   So can't relate the two.  
   
 Q.   You guys had an 11 a.m. game this year, Oklahoma and Kansas.   Is there something different you can do going into this week?   
LUKE POEHLMANN:   Maybe a little.   We talked over there about sleeping a little more and just being really focused.   But I think the fact that it's an 11 o'clock game, we've played good in games.   We've played bad in games.   I think the time issue is not really the thing.   Just because it's early in the morning a lot of people want to talk about it and will put more emphasis on it.   But it comes down to us preparing and being focused and ready to play.   Doesn't matter what time of day it is.   It's just that we're ready to go at kickoff.  
   
 Q.   Is it harder when you guys run out of the tunnel and the stadium is kind of a quarter empty or you don't see as much spark as maybe you do at the 7 p.m. night kickoff?   Is it tougher to get up for?   Do you guys notice it?   
LUKE POEHLMANN:   Yeah, I guess you notice it.   But at the same time a game is a game.   Like I said before, we're ready to play.   And whoever we're playing at kickoff, I'd like to think for myself and I'd like to hope for our team that if there was anyone in the stands or there wasn't, we'd play as hard as we can play because we're playing for each other and playing for this team.   It's the Longhorns, so that shouldn't really matter.  
   
 Q.   As a player though do you remember two years ago when everybody was flying high after Nebraska?   This is a game I know a lot of fans remember as being a really low point in a season that didn't go as well as you guys thought.   
LUKE POEHLMANN:   Definitely.  
   
 Q.   You remember that?   
LUKE POEHLMANN:   Yeah, I definitely remember that.   It was just kind of tragic.   Like I said, that's a completely different team, and we're different from then than we are now.   So I don't really want to compare the two just because you really can't.   Two completely different people, same situation but different teams.   So we'll see.  
   
 Q.   You said Iowa State's a really good team.   Are they really good, okay, what makes them really good in your eyes?   
LUKE POEHLMANN:   What makes them really good in my eyes is how they've played other opponents.   You look at the scores of playing other opponents ‑‑ and to be honest, I haven't gotten a chance to watch a lot of film on them at all.   But I've seen some of the way they've played other people in our conference and guys we haven't.   They play really hard from the little bit of film that I have seen.   I think that a lot of people don't give them the credit that they deserve.  
   
 Q.   Held Western Illinois to three points (Indiscernible).   Besides that, you guys have won three in a row.   What has changed?   Are you guys playing for your lives the last three weeks?   What's been going on?   
LUKE POEHLMANN:   I don't think we've been playing for our lives.   I think we've been playing for each other.   Like I want the best for the guys next to me.   I want the best for the guys on defense, for our offense, special teams.   I want our team to be as good as we can be.   I want to reach our full potential and play to that.   
It's not an easy thing to do.   It's easier said than done.   So I want to keep working toward that's.   I think it's shown that we have won three straight.   We want to work to try to make that four.   I think we do that by trying to stay focused and keep working hard and hoping to reach that potential as I was talking about, for us to just play on all cylinders on offense, defense and special teams.  
   
 Q.   There is a lot of ball protection going on.   You're moving up in the BCS rankings.   You take one game at a time, but now you've kind of got something to play for instead of being a spoiler.   Do you sense that, hey, we can continue this run and end up with a magical season?   
LUKE POEHLMANN:   Yeah, definitely.   It's nice to have the‑‑ it's nice.   I don't know.   It's nice to know that we have a bowl game to go to.   That we're eligible for that.   But that's not our goal.   It never was our goal just to be bowl eligible.   Our goal, obviously, was to win as many games as we can to play to our full potential.   
Right now I'm not thinking about bowl games.   I'm not thinking about where we're going to go for a bowl game.   I'm thinking about Iowa State and thinking about taking this one week at a time and really enjoying it and soaking up the moments that we have.   
This team just has a few more weeks of regular season that we get to be around each other and play football with each other.   I don't want to take that for granted.   I don't want any of the guys on the team to take it for granted.   Because it's a small window we have, and I want us to play hard for each team now, not start looking ahead and think of what‑ifs and whatnots.   I want us to enjoy the moment.  
   
  
  
   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT