UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 22, 2012
Luke Poehlmann
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






Q.   A $20 is a $20 whether it's crumpled up or not. How does that resonate with you?
LUKE POEHLMANN:   I hope it resonates pretty well. It's true, so I guess‑‑ I don't know. 

Q. Any speeches this week that (inaudible)?
LUKE POEHLMANN:   There's no speech. I never think that everyone has really needed a speech, it was just more we stay focused and we've got the next team and get ready for them, and we just need to keep going back to work.

Q. How do you make sure you don't overlook Kansas?
LUKE POEHLMANN:   We take them very serious, take them very serious in a way that every opponent is important, and in this league anybody can beat anybody. So we've got to prepare for them just like any other team we would prepare for. I think we're going to do that, and we're going to watch film, and they've got good players and great athletes, and we're excited for this weekend. 

Q. Trey said playing in cold weather is a fat man's paradise. Why do linemen love playing cold weather games?
LUKE POEHLMANN:   Well, I guess linemen are kind of heavy‑set guys who are pretty ‑‑ it definitely will feel really good. I'm excited about that. I haven't really thought about that yet, but yeah, I am really excited about it being cold up there, just because it's kind of refreshing and won't sweat quite so much, I guess. 

Q. What's it been like for you?   At the beginning of the year Mack said you were kind of training at multiple positions. 
LUKE POEHLMANN:   Our coaches have really done a great job at preparing us for any situation, especially Coach Searels. I feel like as a player he's prepared me in a lot of ways to play a lot of different positions. So whenever that position is called to go play that, I'm pretty confident in it, and it's been really fun. 

Q. Do you miss catching touchdowns? 
LUKE POEHLMANN:   Whatever we've got to do to win. That was nice, but whatever I've got to do now is fine. 

Q. It's an 11:00 a.m. kick. How does that change your preparation throughout the week or the day of, getting ready, you have to wake up earlier?   What's different for an 11:00 a.m. kick for you? 
LUKE POEHLMANN:   I guess what's different is I guess we don't have all day to kind of sit in the hotel and stay off our feet and think about the game. It kind of comes quicker, which in a lot of ways I kind of enjoy that because you wake up and you don't have all day to think about the game, and you get to get up and you're excited to go play. There's less waiting for it, which will be nice.

Q. Which is more dangerous, playing a team that's lost six straight or playing a team that has their homecoming game? 
LUKE POEHLMANN:   I'm not really sure. I didn't know anybody had homecoming still in the Big 12. Neither one is really dangerous. I think it's just‑‑ like I said before, it's the next opponent, whether it's their homecoming or they've lost six straight or they've won six straight. It doesn't really matter. A team is a team, and they've got good athletes and they've got good players, and we're going to prepare for them.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT