UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 1, 2012
Luke Poehlmann
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  


  


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Luke Poehlmann.     
   
 Q.   Luke, what has your role been like this year?     
LUKE POEHLMANN:   It's been a blast.   I just try to make myself available to play whatever I guess the situation calls for.   It's been a blessing to get to play.   Wherever I can help the team out the most, whatever the situation calls for, wherever that is at, I have to do that.     
I've had a lot of fun with that.   That's been fun.     
   
 Q.   What did they tell you this weekend when you went into the game?     
LUKE POEHLMANN:   Right tackle.     
   
 Q.   What did they tell you?     
LUKE POEHLMANN:   Well, I mean, it was kind of like, Hey, we need you to play right tackle right now.   I went in.   We executed.   I mean, it was fun.   Just my number got called, you know.     
   
 Q.   What can a win like that do for the confidence of the team moving forward?     
LUKE POEHLMANN:   Well, I thought it was great that we got a chance to see what it was like to be behind, and as a team to come back and be able to come out with a win was really good for our team.   Just now we can look back and say, We've been there, we've done that.   That confidence can grow.   If a situation like that comes up again, we're confident in knowing that we've been there and we've been through that together, so...     
   
 Q.   Is that especially true with David?   
LUKE POEHLMANN:   Yeah.   I mean, I think it was great.   He did an amazing job running the offense.   His play was awesome.   That was really encouraging.   I love watching him play.   Looked like he was having a great time out there.   Yeah, I think it was good for him.     
   
 Q.   What about having a game like this at home?   It's been a couple years.   What is it like?     
LUKE POEHLMANN:   Oh, it's great.   It's fun.   I guess the student population around here is excited about it, the fans are excited, which is really encouraging.   Texas, we're starting to get back to where we were, get back to being in games like this.     
I don't know.   I'm excited for it.   I look forward to it.   I think it's great for our team and great for our program.     
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, Luke.     
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT