UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
December 21, 2009
Keenan Robinson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
  Q. Tell me your feelings of emotion about playing in this game?   
 KEENAN ROBINSON: Man, this is a lifelong dream. This is exactly why I came to Texas because I knew I'd have a chance to play in this game. So this is my dream coming true.  
  
  Q. You've had to wait a long time. Almost a month to play in this thing.   
 KEENAN ROBINSON: I don't think it bothers me, just because right now we're going back to basics, focusing on things that we learned in spring ball in two-a-days. So it's more fundamental practices, working on the small things. Then later on we'll worry about game planning for Alabama.  
  
  Q. Is that frustrating when you kind of want to start talking Alabama and start thinking Alabama?   
 KEENAN ROBINSON: You know, we're always anxious, you know. Getting ready for our next opponents because we always play the week. But I think it's a good thing to get a little time off. It gives us some time for our bodies to recover a little bit from a long season. Gives us more time to prepare. The more prepared we are, the better we have a chance, you know, of doing what we need to do on the field.  
  
  Q. Coach said the defenses are a lot alike. Do you talk to him about that at all?   
 KEENAN ROBINSON: Muschamp doesn't bring it up much. I know he did work under Saban, so their coaching styles could be very similar.   
  
  Q. Do you like going into this game kind of a battle of the two best defenses in the country?   
 KEENAN ROBINSON: I think that's how it should be played. It's a defensive battle, you know. We've kind of seen that last game against Nebraska. Two good defenses going at it every down. But I think it will be a fun game. It will be a hard-nosed game. Hard-fought game.   
  
  Q. What are your impressions of the Heisman Trophy winner?   
 KEENAN ROBINSON: I think he's a good player. He has to be a great player to win a Heisman, so I think that's going to be a big challenge for us to be able to stop him and make sure that we keep him under the numbers that he expects to get every game.  
  
  Q. Coach Brown said he had multiple TVs. He's in there watching TV and watching some of the build up winning the Heisman and Alabama. Picking them to win and maybe even win big. Are you guys developing an edge when he says that?   
 KEENAN ROBINSON: I think we have to create our own edge just because of who we are at Texas. We try to rely on other people to input some thoughts to be able to motivate us. We try to, you know, find a way to motivate ourselves. And I think that being the underdog, I guess, in this game, it could play some kind of factor, some kind of role. But we're still the number two team in the nation. So we're not that much of underdogs, we don't think.   
  
  Q. You guys thought Colt should have won the Heisman, right?   
 KEENAN ROBINSON: Well, it would be fun either way. Just because Colt will tell you first, he'd be the first one to say he'd rather win a team award than a National Championship game than win an individual award. Because in the end, it's team over individuals, you know.   
  
  Q. Do you have a favorite Christmas present you got growing up as a kid that you'll always remember?   
 KEENAN ROBINSON: I'm trying to think. The best Christmas I received growing up was probably hot wheels tracks, some kind of Hot Wheels toy or something. I can't remember, it's been a while since I played with toys. All right, no problem.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT