UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 31, 2011
Keenan Robinson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
  Q. I asked Emmanuel this before, but are you sore?   
     KEENAN ROBINSON: Yeah, I am. I played probably like 32, 33 plays, plus special teams. I've probably got at least 40 plays in. I'm a little bit sore.   
  
  Q. What does the shutout do for your confidence going forward?  
     KEENAN ROBINSON: Basically, I mean, it's something that hasn't been done since I've been here, so I'm definitely happy to be a part of that, as well as the fact that we're the only team that scored. That says tremendous things for both sides of the ball because it's the offense that gives them a chance to score, and when defense was on the field we were able to keep them out of the end zone and just show that the game plan that we had and everything that we put into the game, it was well prepared and well executed on Saturday.   
  
  Q. In the past Tech has been more of a passing team. Do they seem a little more balanced now than they have?  
     KEENAN ROBINSON: Yeah. Last year, as well, I noticed that, too. They want to run the ball, but at the end we all know they want to pass it. We've got to make sure we stop the run, make them one-dimensional, and once you do that, then we've got to get the quarterback pressured and make him make mistakes.  
  
  Q. Getting pressure on the quarterback, talking about that, how important is that? You did that Saturday.   
     KEENAN ROBINSON: Yeah, it's very important. It's going to be harder because Tech's passing game has been something they've been working on for years, something that they've got down to a tee. So they're going to do different things that Kansas didn't do. I see them executing their plays more efficiently than Kansas just because of the fact that over the years their passing history has been a lot better, and they've been top ten in passing history for the past I don't know how many years, but that's what they do, they pass the ball.   
     Giving pressure is going to be important because we've got to make sure the quarterback can't show his reads and make sure that he has people in space. We'll force them to throw an interception or hit the quarterback with a fumble, pick it up and score or something, we need to do something to get the quarterback off his rocker and make sure we keep pressuring him all game.  
  
  Q. Do you feel like Jackson needed a game like that on Saturday to get him going?  
     KEENAN ROBINSON: Yeah, it didn't matter who it was. If somebody had to have a big game, whether it was AO or Kheeston, Whaley, anybody, we all just need the D-line to play well and they did Saturday. It starts with the front seven. Once the front seven plays well, then it makes back forward a lot easier, makes the drives -- they can sit out there and just play ball.   
  
  Q. Did you see frustration in him because he hadn't gotten it going early on?  
     KEENAN ROBINSON: Oh, man, Jeffcoat? No, not really. Coach is very good at telling us just be patient, your time is going to come, your chance is going to come, just make sure you're ready when they do come. All year -- the same with a lot of guys on defense, just keep on being patient, your play is going to come, just things we tell you to do take care of your job and everything will take care of itself.  
  
  Q. Was what does it mean to get the sixth win?  
     KEENAN ROBINSON: Yeah, it means a lot basically because last year we didn't make it that far. We've got to make sure we do everything we can to win this game, get the sixth game, focus on the rest of our season after that. Six games in the past, we would have already had it with our talent we had here at Texas in the past. But this year we played two great opponents that we lost to, so just getting back on track starting with last week in Kansas, now we can push forward by beating Tech.  
  
  Q. How much is it on you guys to make sure that losing the rest of these games doesn't happen and keeping that chip on your shoulder?  
     KEENAN ROBINSON: Yeah, always. You don't want to let the team down or let the fans down or the history down, so we have to make sure we keep doing everything we've done all season to make sure we keep executing, do what the coaches tells us to do because they're going to have a great game plan every game. Make sure we just take care of us and everything else fall into place and take care of itself.  
  
  Q. Which Tech team are you preparing for, the one that beat OU or the one that lost to Iowa State?   
     KEENAN ROBINSON: We prepare for the team that beat OU obviously. I'm going to watch both films, going to watch probably every game they played this season and just see what they like to do, see how they beat teams. Don't look at a team -- don't underestimate a team. You don't want to do that because any day when you see that Tech beat OU, come out, played against us, they'll play their hearts out, come out prepared and ready to beat us, and so we can't let that happen.   
     Last year we were able to beat them at home -- last year we beat them at their place, but this year we'll beat them at home and hopefully continue what we started last week.  
  
  Q. How much fun have Tech games been for you going up against that offense, and have you had to miss more plays than usual because of nickel or dime packages?  
     KEENAN ROBINSON: I never missed any plays just because last year when I was a nickel it was me and Emmanuel. This year we'll probably get more nickel, a lot of prowler, and there's going to be two lines on the field all the time so I won't miss any plays in that aspect as far as formations and schemes go. But they've been fun for me because in the past obviously I've been outside, so I was out there covering receivers and doing all that so I was very involved in the bubble game, very involved in the vertical games they played and just very -- one of the key components of the stopping the pass. So this year I feel like my passing role will be a little bit less, but at the same time I'll still have a role in protecting the middle of the field, protecting the screens.  
  
  Q. Has that been a fun challenge for you, being almost a little DB out there?  
     KEENAN ROBINSON: Yeah, that's one of my strong points of my game, so that's something that coaches utilize when they can, especially the last three years I've been here at Texas, they have been utilizing it. That's something that players or other teams, they don't know about, but they watch the history, they can tell that me and Emmanuel both can defend the pass very well.  
  
  Q. Did you used to dress up for Halloween?  
     KEENAN ROBINSON: When I was a little kid, yeah, I used to, especially like a Monday, today, go to school dressed up, come home, go out at night. I probably stopped doing that probably high school I'd say.   
  
  Q. What was your favorite costume?  
     KEENAN ROBINSON: I should probably say ninja costume.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT