UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 26, 2011
Keenan Robinson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
  Q. David was just talking a little bit about humility coming off the Iowa State game last year. How much did that change your perspective?   
 KEENAN ROBINSON: Actually I feel like humility came from us going out there and playing lackadaisical. We played like a team that should have been beat by Iowa State, we didn't play like a team that should have beat them. We came out there, offense, defense, special teams, we played horrible that day. We deserved to lose that day. After that, that's a feeling that we never wanted to experience again, but obviously did a couple more times in the season because obviously we kept on losing.  
  
  Q. Do you like the fact that you're getting a chance to avenge the disappointing performance from a year ago?   
 KEENAN ROBINSON: Yeah, I do like the chance. That's what happens when you lose and you play the same team two years in a row. Hopefully we can come away and have the result if not better than what we had at UCLA. I feel like we need to start fast this week, make sure we jump out early because that would definitely help playing in an away environment, a hostile environment like it will be Saturday night. I'm just grateful for the opportunity to play again. Last year was definitely not what we wanted to put on film, but this year we have a chance to, like you said, put that to rest.  
  
  Q. Mack talked about how they can extend plays. Is that something that you look for in these guys?  
 KEENAN ROBINSON: Yeah, I mean, see, the thing is he can hurt us with his feet by extending plays, but at the same time he can help us because when something is not there, he'll start to panic and he'll look for making a play when a play is not there, and that's when we can get turnovers and make big plays on defense. Hopefully we can come away with three or four picks like we had last weekend. We can make this quarterback help us win the game.  
  
  Q. How much of that did you see in UCLA, and do you feel like it kind of shows the defense coming together a little bit?  
 KEENAN ROBINSON: Yeah, it kind of surprised me last week because of the fact that how -- not easily they came but how quickly they came. He threw for three picks in the first quarter. First pick he threw, second play of the game, it was a bad ball and our cornerback was right there in the right spot. I'm hoping we can force Iowa State's quarterback to do the same, make him think something is there and bait him into it and hopefully come away with an interception.   
 We can also hit these running backs, make them drop the ball, fumble the ball, and we can make the quarterback scramble around. He has bad ball security, so maybe we can force a fumble or two on him, as well.  
  
  Q. Mack talked about the seniors stepping up and reminding the younger guys about how you guys felt when you played a team like UCLA. How do you talk to them, and what are some of the things you said to them to let them know how bad it was?   
 KEENAN ROBINSON: Really we haven't said much yet. We will as the game gets closer because they obviously weren't there unless people red-shirted and played as a freshman. But other guys that came in, we have like 19 true freshmen playing this year, so they weren't here, they just seen it on TV.   
 I feel like we'll say the same thing we said at UCLA; don't let what happened last year happen again. They can watch game film of last year if they want to see how bad we got beat. It's something if we go into practice focused and make sure that we just don't do all the bad things, work on getting better and play the things we can play, we'll be fine come Saturday. As long as those guys step up and play like veterans like they have in the past, we'll be fine.  
  
  Q. Texas had a lot of success coming off bye weeks in the past. Do you like having the schedule you have?   
 KEENAN ROBINSON: Yeah, I definitely don't mind it. Usually we have one bye week a year, this year we have two. I kind of like that because it gives us a chance, people that are injured, to get back healthy. It gives you some relax time and just be able to get away from football. So I actually do like it. Only thing is it breaks up the season, so now we have first third, second third, and the last third. When you're able to look at a season like that, it just helps break down your season and helps you really work on focusing on three games at a time, three games at a time, then the last six games or so. So it definitely helps as far as staying focused and staying on task.   
  
  Q. Do you worry at all about people looking past Iowa State?  
 KEENAN ROBINSON: I don't think we can afford to. We're not that great of a team to everybody else's eyes, and we still have a lot of work to do in our own eyes. We still can't afford to -- we're 16th, 17th ranked, but we're not a top five team. Until we play like a top five team, we definitely don't have that opportunity or that ability to.   
  
  Q. Coach talked about Emmanuel's inspirational message Friday at the Rose Bowl. Have you been working on your speech for this?  
 KEENAN ROBINSON: No, I really don't plan anything. If I feel like I need to say something, I'll say something. It's kind of like at practice Coach usually has Emmanuel or me say something to the LBs. I usually tell them the same thing all the time; A, be prepared to win, and if you're not prepared, then we're going to come out here and not play well at linebacker. It's just something that comes off the top of my head.   
 Emmanuel, he kind of surprised me with that. He has very good leadership, the speaking role that he played last Saturday, and it definitely helped the team. We stayed on task, his motivational speaking skills are pretty good, and it was successful, I think.   
  
  Q. Does not being injured make you appreciate every game you play?  
 KEENAN ROBINSON: Definitely, same with Trey last year. I'm just blessed to be able to play again. I'm blessed to not have injuries, but I know it's hard for him because he's a guy that loves football. His dad obviously used to be a football coach, so he's been around the game for so long and now he has to sit on the sidelines and watch. But I just pray for him and his family and I hope that he can continue to stay around football even if he can't play.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT