ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
July 1, 2019
Sanjay Bangar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. The collective batting performance, how would you assess that performance?
SANJAY BANGAR: It was a pretty good chase.  Just towards the end, we sort of fell behind a bit, but right up to the 45th over, we had a chance to come close to cross the England score.  I mean, the way Rohit batted his innings was brilliant, very well times, and even Virat now fifth half century of the tournament, and Rishabh also getting a partnership with Rohit in the middle.
So all in all, I felt that we were in the game, in the chase for probably 90 percent of the game.  It's just that in the last three or four overs the target, or the difference between runs required and balls left was just too much.
I mean, credit to England bowlers, especially in the last six, seven overs.  They really stuck with their plan well, and it made run scoring a bit difficult by using the angles and using the large part of the boundary.
Q. Did you at all toy with the idea of sending Rishabh Pant as an opener?
SANJAY BANGAR: No, we didn't try that.
Q. Just one about today.  You've been working a lot with MS leading up to this.  Was there any -- why did you, I guess, sum up sort of the intent towards the end of that innings?  Could it have been a little bit more aggressive perhaps?
SANJAY BANGAR: I thought MS was -- I mean, he was striking the ball really well.  He had good intent.  It's just that the English bowlers stuck to their task really well.  They used the angles and used the large boundaries to their advantages, and they were bowling to a shorter side of the boundary.  They were bowling a pretty good line.
I mean, I didn't really find anything wrong in MS's innings.  He was batting beautifully.  He had struck a few big blows, and it's just that in the last four or five overs, the difference between runs required and balls left just kept on creeping up.
Q. And now you've got to bounce back against Bangladesh.  Certainly batting-wise, what do you look to concentrate on?
SANJAY BANGAR: Yes, we've got some good performances, and we just need to build up a few more partnerships because we just had one big partnership and the second partnership wasn't really that big.  So maybe we could look at having a better partnership in the middle overs and from the middle order.  I think, if that happens, it will be good for the side.
Q. The screws have turned in a bit more for the game against Bangladesh.  How do you think the players will take handling it?
SANJAY BANGAR: Well, every opponent is going to be different.  We will again start and reassess what we could achieve and what we couldn't achieve in this game.  We'll take it from there.  It's a fresh game.  It's going to be on the same track, so we have a bit of an idea of how the track will behave and how the dimensions of the ground are.  So we'll try and maximize them.
Q. Is that something -- just one more.  So with that game against Bangladesh, what was it about the dimensions of the ground and the pitch in this that you feel you have to take lessons from?
SANJAY BANGAR: Well, we were a bit surprised because they probably played 59 metres to one side, which is the least permissible size, so to say.  Again, it was the same for both the sides, and credit to them that they used the dimensions to their advantage.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT