THE SAUDI INTERNATIONAL POWERED BY SOFTBANK INVESTMENT ADVISERS
February 4, 2021
David Horsey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. David, what a round of golf, 9-under par, no dropped shots, and seven of birdies coming on the back nine.  Tell us how you reflect on that.
 DAVID HORSEY:   It's a shock actually.  I've been playing rubbish the last couple weeks.  Didn't feel like I controlled my ball the first two events.
 Yeah, sort of had a conversation with a pal back home last night, talking a few things through and suggested something that I work on away from the tournament.
 Knowing me, I thought, well, can't get any worse, so I may as well try it and here we are.
 Q. Any clue what that was?
 DAVID HORSEY:   Really just how my body is moving quite sort of technical really.  It's nice to have a feel you can sort of wake up and pick up straightaway.  Yeah, I didn't really feel like I missed many shots.  I holed a couple of nice, lengthy putts as well and it all adds up to 61.
 Q. Coming down the last, we were all on 59 watch.  Were you aware of what was going on and how are the legs and arms feeling?
 DAVID HORSEY:   Yeah, I had a little conversation with myself going down 16.  I wanted to make birdie there.  Sort of added it up and realised can't really reach 18 in two.  So yeah, I think realistically, two good birdie chances, managed to birdie 17 and made a bit of a hash at the last.  Got a par there.
 Wasn't really on my mind if I'm honest with you.  If it was reachable, maybe more so.
 Q. This is your third week?
 DAVID HORSEY:   Third week here.  It was nice to get preseason practise in the sun.  It's funny, going into Abu Dhabi, it's like it kept coming and going a bit before sort of going there, and then get -- starting to think about -- make you realise where you actually are, so yeah, that sort of -- I knew I was working on something, and it was really good on the range and I get on the golf course and it was sideways.
 Q. Who was the friend that you called?
 DAVID HORSEY:   Jacob Calum (ph) weirdly enough, he's only 22, and he's someone that I've helped out sort of as an amateur at my golf club.  He's turned pro no.
 So yeah, I tried to sort of help him as much as I can and he's now returning the favour.  He's really knowledgeable and yeah, I do -- I've not got a coach now for about, well, pretty much a year, doing a lot of stuff on my own and yeah, lockdown last year, just chatting about stuff really.  He sort of makes a few good points and knows the golf swing really well and it's nice to bounce a few ideas off someone who plays as well.
 Coaches sometimes find it difficult to relate to what we feel out there and maybe there's quite a lot of them who have played but the guys who haven't, it's quite tough to sort of get that point across.  Yeah, because he can relate to playing at the same time, yeah, it's constructive conversations.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT