ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT PAUL LAWRIE MATCH PLAY
August 4, 2016
David Horsey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How good does it feel?
DAVID HORSEY: Yeah, very good.  I had three weeks off.  Not played in The Open or US PGA.  Not really done much with a few little niggles and injuries I've had over the last sort of few months.  Yeah, came into this week not really expecting much, so nice to get off to a very, very solid start.
Q. A bit of fight back, as well, because you found yourself down after two holes?
DAVID HORSEY: Yeah, I eagled 2.  Can't really do too much about it.  Hit 4-iron in there to sort of 30 feet, 2-putted and he's holed it from 12 for eagle.  Match play is one of them you can get a little bit ahead of yourself and a little bit down on yourself, stuff like that, and you just go accept the fact that he's made a great 3 to win the hole and yeah, just carried on sticking to my game plan and yeah, got the job done in the end.
Q. Niggles and injuries; what's been wrong with you?
DAVID HORSEY: I had a knee operation at the start of the year that I'm pretty much over now.  I had a niggle in my wrist for the last three weeks or so which has sort of stopped me practising, or not doing as much as I'd like to, anyway.
Coming into this week not really match-fit, shall we say but it's nice to find a bit of feel and to get a few birdies on the board obviously and win on the board first thing.
Q. Is your attitude different when you approach match play, compared to a regular stroke-play event?
DAVID HORSEY: It's a funny question because we don't play much match play in professional golf.  So it is a hard format to sort of devise a game plan, if you like.  Didn't make a very good job of this last year, so this year was a bit more focused on myself and stick to what I'm doing and play my game plan, and it seemed to work.
Q. Given your time off and those hassles, I don't know, maybe you come in here with less expectation, maybe a bit more freedom; not sure?
DAVID HORSEY: Yeah, probably less expectation, probably at least try and not expect as much and just go and play.  It's a golf course that does suit me.  I quite like it.  It's not very long.  And obviously match play is all about holing putts.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT