VOLVO GOLF CHAMPIONS
January 19, 2012
David Horsey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   David, good effort, 4‑under?  
DAVID HORSEY:   I played all right really, front nine, not really close enough, didn't hole any putts.   And then holed a nice one on 11 for birdie from about 12, 15 feet.   Just got me going and holed a nice one on 12 from the front edge.   
Disappointed with how I played the par 5s, didn't birdie any of them.   So for 4‑under, what could have been, really, if I had just played the par 5s a bit better.   But, first round of the year, a good start.   
   
 Q.   And that phrase, got it going, because it seemed a little bit quiet early on and then you did just get into the rhythm of it?  
DAVID HORSEY:   Definitely.   Holed a few putts mainly.   A lot of good chances out there.   The wind picked up on the sixth hole, so it became a bit trickier.   Quite happy with three pars on those last three.   
Yeah, 4‑under is great start anywhere, I think wherever you play.  
   
 Q.   What do you make of this track, you look out there and it's a links course.   
DAVID HORSEY:   I know, it's a credit to the designers and to the owner, it was an airstrip originally and what they have done is fantastic.   It's a privilege to play and always in great condition.   I've played twice now and I'm sure I'll be back in the future.  
   
 Q.   Challenging but rewarding, if you are the right place you have opportunities?  
DAVID HORSEY:   You have to hit good shots.   There's a lot of very tight second shots on the back nine, fortunately you have short clubs in from the tees we're playing off.   But if they put the tees off the back it could be very tricky especially in the wind picks up.   
With five par 5s, I think any long hitter will be thinking birdie.   
   
 Q.   First time we've seen you in 2012, how was winter?   
DAVID HORSEY:   It was good, quiet, stayed at home, family.   Nice just to chill really.   Holiday is at home for us when we spend 30 weeks living in a hotel; it was quiet and recharged the batteries well.   
   
 Q.   Do you draw the line under 2012 and think new start, new ambitions?   
DAVID HORSEY:   Definitely.   You have to obviously draw on the good points of last year and try to improve on the weaknesses and try and become a better player because of it.   But, yeah, it's definitely a new start, new year.   
So yeah, everyone's sort of at the start of the race line so to speak first of January.   So have to start again and keep playing good golf.   35 players, no cut, doesn't get any better.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT