UBS HONG KONG OPEN
December 1, 2011
David Horsey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Tell us how good that was today.   
DAVID HORSEY:   Yeah, very nice start, played nicely.   Wasn't feeling great coming into the week to be honest.   But yeah, did some good work yesterday on the range, and yeah, very pleased with the start.  
   
 Q.   Not feeling great?   
DAVID HORSEY:   Just wasn't starting the ball on line and did a bit of swing work on the range and managed to get it more online.   Makes the game a lot easier when you can start the ball where you want to.  
   
 Q.   Does it make it surprising with your score, therefore, so quick?   
DAVID HORSEY:   I've been playing well for a while to be honest, since probably, I don't know, going back to sort of the Dunhill time, I've been hitting the ball quite nicely so scores have not been quite coming in so hopefully can change that these last two tournaments of the year.  
   
 Q.   I'll state the obvious, must be good to go around bogey three, as well?  
DAVID HORSEY:   It is.   I only missed two greens, so yeah, a couple of sand saves, one was from about eight, ten feet on the par3, what is it now, 11, so that was nice to keep the momentum going.   Birdied 12 and just nipped one at the last.   Very pleased with the start but a long ways to go.  
   
 Q.   How tricky was it with the conditions?   
DAVID HORSEY:   It seemed to be gusting on the back nine.   Like I say the front nine was pretty consistent but the back nine it seemed to drop and then get up and then drop.   It was tricky to get the direction and Chris did a good job of keeping that wind map, so he's got a lot of credit to take for this as well.   
   
 Q.   Pretty chilly today for Hong Kong standards?  
DAVID HORSEY:   Definitely, in comparison to the start of the week, I was sweating yesterday and coming out today it's like a different country.   I believe the forecast is similar; it's more what we are used to back in the U.K.  
   
 Q.   Do you like this track?  
DAVID HORSEY:   I really like it.   Suited me and probably not done as well as I should have done the last couple of years so hopefully put that right this week.   
   
 Q.   What was your club into the last?  
DAVID HORSEY:   9‑iron, 125 to a foot.   Nice way to finish.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT