APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 17, 2015
Mikhail Kukushkin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 V. TROICKI/M. Kukushkin
  6‑2, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Surely not the final you wanted, but is there anything positive you take from this one?   
MIKHAIL KUKUSHKIN:   For sure I can take something positive from this week, that, first of all, final on ATP tournament is important.   Of course it's something special, and of course it was great for me anyway because I won seven matches.  
To start season like that, to win so many matches, to get some confidence, is really important.   So of course I take something positive from that.   
But of course was disappointing final for me, but Viktor just played better today.  
   
 Q.   What kind of strategy did you bring into the match?   
MIKHAIL KUKUSHKIN:   Just trying to use my better side for my game, but unfortunately didn't work out today.   Viktor managed to, you know, play better on those points when I was trying to push him.   
He was really defending well.   He was as well pushing a lot and he was playing really good today.   He was serving amazing.   
Of course I should change something maybe during the match and maybe I should do something different ‑‑ for sure to have play better‑‑ but maybe was just tired because from whole week, eight matches in a row.   It's tough.  
Anyway, I believe Viktor deserved this victory.  
   
 Q.   You came in with your thigh being strapped up and then you asked for the trainer to come in.   What's the problem with it?  
MIKHAIL KUKUSHKIN:   Just all the problems with my hips.   I had surgery for both my hips three years ago, two and a half years ago, and it's tough for me, especially when I play a lot of matches in a row.   Like here I played eight days in a row.  
It's really tough for my hips, my legs, so I had some pain.   It was tough to play, but I hope there is nothing special and I hope I will be able to play on Monday already.   
   
 Q.   How confident are you that you'll recover before the Australian Open on Monday?  
MIKHAIL KUKUSHKIN:   Tough to say.   Of course I hope I will be able to recover.   Of course when I play eight days in a row it's tough.  
But I will have day off tomorrow and fly to Melbourne.   I will have a match already on Monday.   I don't know.   Honestly, I don't know.   
Of course I will try to do my best, because Grand Slams, there is just four of them in a year.   Very important tournament.   I will do my best on Monday, but I hope my body will let me play my best.  
   
 Q.   Do you think that since you played today in Sydney they should have let you play on Tuesday?  
MIKHAIL KUKUSHKIN:   From player's side, yes, 100%.   When you look at the tournament side, when you have 128 players and you have to play first round in two days, maybe there is not so many opportunities for that.  
But of course it's tough to say.   Of course when I see from my side, from the player's side, of course I would need that extra day for rest.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT