AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 23, 2012
Mikhail Kukushkin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. MURRAY/M. Kukushkin
  6‑1, 6‑1, 1‑0 (ret.)

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Was that an injury you had at the start of the match or something you did during the match? 
MIKHAIL KUKUSHKIN:   It was after my last match against Monfils.   I mean, I played two matches five set.   Yesterday I was just, I don't know, even not able to lift my leg.   I mean, I have problem with the left hip. 
Before the match I warming up, but I see I cannot play full today just because my left hip doesn't allow me to run, even to serve.   I was only able to serve the second serve with the pain. 
Unfortunately these last two rounds, it's cost me a lot.   Today, unfortunately, I was not able to show anything, to play, to compete, especially on this level. 
So, I don't know. 

Q.   Did you think about pulling out before the match?
MIKHAIL KUKUSHKIN:   No.   Always I try to play, I mean, till the end.   I think it's only second time in my career that I retired during the match.   So I always try to play till the end, you know, for the people who came to the stadium, you know, for everybody. 
I mean, normally I have retire it even first set when I saw I cannot run, I cannot serve, I cannot compete against Andy.   But I was just trying to stay in the match as long as possible.   Already it was dangerous for my future, for the next few weeks, so I just was not able to continue. 

Q.   Is it embarrassing when you know you've got an injury?   Obviously people on television wouldn't be aware.   They can just see that you can't serve.   Is that embarrassing when you're trapped in that situation?
MIKHAIL KUKUSHKIN:   Yeah, it's tough, of course.   A lot of people on the stadium, on the television, they watch this match.   I mean, I always try to show my best.   For me it's so sad that this match was not so entertainment.   Probably it was not fun to watch, so I feel also so bad for that. 
But unfortunately with that injury I was not able to do anything. 

Q.   When you decided to switch from representing Russia to Kazakhstan, can you explain what the situation was there?   How did that come about?
MIKHAIL KUKUSHKIN:   It was more than three years ago.   It's already four years I play for Kazakhstan.   At that time I was around 150 in the world.   I was struggling.   I mean, I was not in good shape in that moment, but I knew that I could play better, much better and I can get in the other level. 
But I didn't have any opportunity for that.   Unfortunately in Russia nobody was interesting in me.   Nobody support me.   Kazakhstan, more than three years ago, they came to me and they just provide me everything, like practice conditions, coaches.   I don't know, I have so much support behind my back. 
For all players, especially for me, it means a lot when you have such a strong Federation behind you and you know any moment you can call them and ask for, I don't know, Next week I want to practice in Spain, whatever, and they will just find you a place, pay for everything.   They just do everything for you. 
Especially I can also play Davis Cup.   Already played few good matches.   It's future experience for me.   It's good that it's work out for me and for the country, so I like.   I like it. 

Q.   Was it mainly the Federation or are their private interests in Kazakhstan who helped fund this, like corporate interests, very rich individuals?
MIKHAIL KUKUSHKIN:   It's Federation.   I mean, it's like four years ago it was become new Federation with new people there.   With president of the Federation, the new people came there. 
They start to build new project in Kazakhstan for tennis, especially not only for us, for the professional players, but especially for the juniors. 
Last few years they built I don't know how many tennis centers in Kazakhstan.   They do so many programs for the juniors.   They invite so many coaches from Europe to come to Kazakhstan and teach young players. 
I think it's great they do so many things to improve tennis in Kazakhstan. 

Q.   As part of the arrangement, do you live there?
MIKHAIL KUKUSHKIN:   For the moment mostly I live in two cities, in Moscow and Astana, but it's only like no more than month per year.

Q.   What do you think about the next round of Davis Cup with Spain? 
MIKHAIL KUKUSHKIN:   Even if they all don't play, it will be for sure tough match.   They have so many good players, top players.   Especially at home, they play on clay at home, it will be such a tough match for us. 
But, anyway, we are looking forward for this match.   Of course, we will do everything to try to beat them.   It will be, of course, tough.   We will try to win. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT