BIG EAST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 7, 2020
Kurt Godlevske
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Seton Hall - 83, Butler - 57   
KURT GODLEVSKE: I think overall, as I mentioned to the kids, I thought we had a terrific season. It wasn't the best representation of ourselves. I thought Seton Hall was fantastic. Anytime that you're able to make 16 threes in a game and shoot the ball as well as they did -- I thought we had a good game plan coming in, but when you have teams play like that, all the credit goes to them.   
 Q.  Take me through kind of how some of your players have battled back from injuries and have that tough grind to get to where you are right now.  
KURT GODLEVSKE: Yeah, it's been a very tough last three weeks. We've either had somebody sitting out or been -- played with an injury. Naira dislocated her finger in St. John's, and it's definitely messed with our rotations and hurt our chemistry. But that's no excuse, and the girls know that. It's next person up.   
I thought for the most part, we competed for most of the season. I'm not sure that we really gave our best competitive effort tonight, but like I said, Seton Hall is probably the most -- as far as being a 5 seed, the most underrated 5 seed in this tournament with Shadeen and the way that Lewis is shooting the ball and the way Jackson is shooting the ball. They're a very dangerous, dangerous team when they have all those combinations going.   
I don't know how much it was about us tonight, more about what they were doing. They were fantastic.   
 Q.  Tough way for Kristen to go out. What did you see from Seton Hall defensively?  
KURT GODLEVSKE: It was kind of the same thing as last weekend. I thought Shadeen did probably the best job that's been defended on her all season the last two times that we've played them, and with her length and her size, she makes it very difficult for Kristen to get much of anything going, and then our offense for the last two times that we've played them has sputtered because of that. When we're not able to get her going and get easy baskets going, we've kind of struggled scoring the ball and then have a few breakdowns here and there.   
But you know, Shadeen's length and size is what kind of really has bottled Kristen up the last few times.   
 Q.  We talked earlier in the season and you spoke about the standards that were laid last year, how that definitely carried into this season. You had such a great start to conference play. I know this is a tough moment, but can you reflect on this team and the fact that you could be a WNIT team coming up here?  
KURT GODLEVSKE: And the foundation that they've laid? Well, I think what they have done for the younger players is they've shown that growth that can start from the beginning of a season to the end of a season. You know, our playbook at the start way back in November was shrunk compared to what Whitney and Toure and that group could really physically execute, and we just kept on growing and adding and adding, so I think they've kind of laid that part for the younger kids, as this is something that if you really are focused and are disciplined and bought into doing this with your team, it's something that can be accomplished.   
And then the big thing is having so many kids really learn our defensive scheme. It took Toure and Whitney and Michelle two years to really get that, and for what we've done in a short turnaround with that group, with Shae and Kristen kind of helping guide them and Kat guide them was fantastic, so it's something they can always fall back on with the younger kids; if you defend, you're going to have chances to win.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT