NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIP
March 18, 2016
Nick Gwiazdowski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: We have Nick Gwiazdowski here.  Nick, if you would like to make may general comment about your match tonight?   
NICK GWIAZDOWSKI: Tough wrestling.  I knew I was getting into it and my coaches gave me a game plan to slow me down, and I guess he was doing it for a good moment in the match, but it was pretty tough to get beat like that.   
 Q.  Nick, you mentioned that Adam would try to slow you down.  Kyle is not going to try to slow you down tomorrow night.  So how will you win that match assuming he picks up the pace?  
NICK GWIAZDOWSKI: It's kind of like dancing, if you have to move something it's hard, but with both pieces moving I think there is more openings.  That's how I feel it is, so I've always had more success with better guys that move more, rather than you gotta do everything.  They're just trying to stop you rather than, he shot, now I've got an opening, that kind of thing.  So I think tomorrow will be a little bit more like that.   
 Q.  It's on.  This is what all the fans wanted.  This is what the coaches wanted.  This is what the media wants.  How much did you want this match-up with Kyle Snyder?  
NICK GWIAZDOWSKI: I want to wrestle the best guy.  If you want to be the NCAA champ you have got to wrestle the best guy, so we are the two best guys at this point.  So tomorrow night we will find out and either way I think it's good for the media attention, also for both of us.   
 Q.  Nick, obviously winning an NCAA title is difficult, winning two is even more.  How much have you had to improve to put yourself in a position to go for a third?  It's clearly people have put a target on you and you know that you're going to have to be at your best every time you step on the mat?  What's the journey been like?  
NICK GWIAZDOWSKI: It's been that I learned a lot about myself, bring myself to new limits and to new levels and limits in my own personal world.  I would be lying if I said I don't think about it more than I should.  It's on my mind a lot, even when I'm having fun and doing different things.   
When I sit around and look up I'm like, it's coming up soon.  We're in March.  The tournament is next week, stuff like that.  So it goes through my mind a lot, and I also think about the guys I'm competing with when I'm training too.   
You got those guys in mind when you work on technique, watching film, you know those guys are guys you train with and you know how hard they're working is to be better than them you've got to push yourself.   
 Q.  Nick, who do you consider to be at the helm of your sports system in the wrestling room, coach, friend, perhaps a behind the scenes, someone?  
NICK GWIAZDOWSKI: Someone I look up to?   
 Q.  Yeah and motivates you?  
NICK GWIAZDOWSKI: I got a lot of different people, different reasons, Coach, some are coaches, some are my own personal -- I know what I'm capable of, so I never want to -- I've had it before when I walked off and I had more in my tank, I could have done more and I don't want to have that happen anymore.   
So as long as I can walk I'm going to throw everything I have out there to win the match.  Stuff like that.  It's a lot of personal -- a lot of smaller things.  Not one certain person.   
 Q.  Nick, can you talk about your path to the finals here the guy you faced in the finals last year and doing it in your home state obviously?  
NICK GWIAZDOWSKI: It was the fourth time we wrestled, so again real familiar and I knew what he was going to come with and I know what I'm capable of doing, so with that.  And I have a lot of motivation, looked in the crowd, people I know and people that I didn't know were coming and are here and that just pushes me to work hard and try to do my best.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much, Nick.  Good luck tomorrow night.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT