NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIP
March 21, 2015
Nick Gwiazdowski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   We're joined by Nick Gwiazdowski.   Nick, an opening statement.   
NICK GWIAZDOWSKI:   I knew it was going to be a war.   It was not going to be easy.   You look at all his matches, he don't stop.   So I went in there with a mentality of you're going to have to kill someone or you're going to get killed.   So I thought about my preparation.  
That's about it.   I had to wrestle the whole time.   I had one little let‑down where I probably should have stayed and wrestled that leg attack of his, but I decided to try to run and he tagged my ankle.   But other than that, this is what I hoped for.  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions?   
   
 Q.   That's a lot of points for a heavyweight match.   Is it because you have similar styles that allows that and was he opening himself up when he was attacking so much?   One of your doubles, it appeared he opened himself up.   
NICK GWIAZDOWSKI:   You look at all these other matches, they're low scoring.   What did I put up, seven points on him?   I think that says a lot about the way I wrestle.   And my coaches in the wrestling room, and what I do in the weight room, too.   
By no means did I chase a certain shot.   I allowed myself, boom, boom, I'll take it if it's there.   That's how I felt on the first one.  
   
 Q.   You talked about the takedown Coon did get late in the match.   You probably had 15seconds left in the period.   Any doubt you were going to get out and get that point and not have to play overtime?  
NICK GWIAZDOWSKI:   No, I knew I was, like, how easy I got out the first time, I was like, all right.   But the way I feel about it is, like, here I am, I scored two takedowns and a reversal and it's still a one‑point match at the end.   So here I did all this stuff, nothing against him, he got one takedown and three escapes and it's a one‑point match.   
I went after all the offensive moves.   It's like for everyone.   You do all this work and then you can win by one point.   
   
 Q.   We've talked a little bit about this last year.   When you made the move to North Carolina, you're an eastern guy.   Talk about the adaptation, not just the wrestling at North Carolina State but the Southern way and that type of thing, is there a difference?   What was the adjustment for you?  
NICK GWIAZDOWSKI:   They're never in a rush.   And they always say, yes, ma'am, and, yes, sir, all this stuff.   But it took some getting used to.   It's still different when I go back to New York, the way people are, the way people drive.   
But I had friends in town along the way.   (Indiscernible) He's one of them right there.   My roommate, teammate.   
   
 Q.   Which one is more difficult, the first or the second NCAA title?   And how much better a wrestler are you now than you were a year ago when you won this thing the first time?  
NICK GWIAZDOWSKI:   I think I'm a lot better this year and I think the second one is tougher.   The whole season.   I won't say it much but it's like every time it's like kill or be killed because if you lose you're going to be killed in the rankings and everything else, which to me it doesn't matter, this is all matters.   But still you can't run away from that stuff.   You still see it, damn, it hurts me a little bit.   Maybe not other guys, but I'm just going to enjoy this a lot more saying I'm a two‑time champ.  
   
 Q.   You've been real active wrestling freestyle.   Do you expect to take a break or are we going to see you at the open or trials, or have you thought about it?   It's a long season.   
NICK GWIAZDOWSKI:   You'll see me at the World Cup camp next week to help (indiscernible) get ready for that.   So I'll take about eight days off.   But, no, I like to wrestle in the open.   I think it's good experience for the trials and I like to make a national team this year.   I've been two spots off my last two years.  
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT