NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIP
March 20, 2015
Nick Gwiazdowski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   We welcome heavyweight finalist Nick Gwiazdowski of N.C. State.   First, Nick, an opening statement about your match tonight? 
NICK GWIAZDOWSKI:   It kind of went as we planned, controlled the hand ties.   I mean my position was right where we wanted it to be.   It seemed like in a lot of matches I have a high level guy that's staying in position.   They have good attacks and good defense and that kind of stuff.   Other than that nothing really didn't go as planned.   You're going into.

Q.   You're going into your second NCAA Championship.   Can you talk about having the target on your back? 
NICK GWIAZDOWSKI:   It is different.   I wrestle, everyone wrestles a little bit above their ability because they want to beat me so bad, so I take that challenge.   I learned that in the first couple months of the season why these guys are going to come after me hard, and I've made adjustments.   I've really grown to get used to it.   Just learning to be myself because nothing's going to be easy.   Last year snuck up on people or whatever, but it's not going to be easy tomorrow night.

Q.   In the finals you have Adam Coon who is a talented young heavyweight who wrestles a lot in the summer like you do.   What do you expect from him and what will it take to take that match and win your second. 
NICK GWIAZDOWSKI:   Kind of like the other things I got to score takedowns.   I know he's going to be in position and moving forward.   That's something that I can do too in my position.   I feel like it's there with anyone.   I can control and keep my hooks out and accumulate some riding time.   He does wrestle a lot in the summer, so he's got experience in that aspect which I don't know if many other guys in this weight class could, so.

Q.   Have you enjoyed the process this year?   Some people talk about when they wrestle well is when they're having fun.   Others look at it a different way.   Going through the process of making the finals again, how is the perception that you've had of the experience so far? 
NICK GWIAZDOWSKI:   The whole year has really been a lot of fun for me.   I got on a streak where I was really dominating guys which I really enjoyed.   I felt great doing it.   I was wrestling what I thought would be really good.   Toward the end of the year it really zooms in because people would ask about undefeated regular season, but it really doesn't mean that much until the last match of the year. 
Toward the end of the year it gets a little darker.   Like okay, you're zooming in and focusing in on what you want to do, and you put other things behind and you'll have little moments.   Like yeah, I win but the hundredth win didn't matter to me.   I'm worried about the National Championship.   It was fun, but at the end of the year it comes down to tomorrow night.   Maybe I'll be able to take a deep breath out and really let it soak in and enjoy it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT