THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 10, 2000
David Sutherland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DAVID SUTHERLAND: Yeah, obviously a lot different round than yesterday where I got such
a great shot with the double eagle. Today was just, you know, I played a real solid round
of golf, birdies were sort of every second or third hole sort of thing. I did birdie 4. 4
was downwind so that I -- a lot of guys made birdies, a made 5-footer. Birdied 5, from 15
feet. Birdied 7. Birdied 9. 7 was about a 20-footer. 9 was about a 10-footer. I hit it
about two feet on 11 which was a good shot there, down wind, made my one bogey on 13
actually just hit a bad shot and kind of caught a bad break, buried under a lip of a
bunker; had to wedge it out. I actually ended up basically where my driver had been. Then
I came back birdied 14, as you can see the -- I played the par 5s real well, birdied every
one of them. Chipped short of the green. Chipped it up to three feet hit and a wedge about
maybe eight feet on 6 -- 16 and I had some, you know, reasonably decent birdie putts than
some of other holes - wasn't like I had anything really close, 10 foot, 15-foot range. I
felt like I played good today. Maybe even a little better than I did yesterday. The wind
was a little bit up. Obviously didn't have the great start where I was 6-under through
seven holes, but feel good about my game and obviously feel like I am playing pretty well.

Q. How about the conditions? How differently did it play?

DAVID SUTHERLAND: It was harder today, no doubt. Even though I shot a lower score, the
wind kind of equals firm greens and just can't control the ball. This is the way the golf
course wants to play. This is -- I actually started to feel like I was playing here better
today with the hard greens. Yesterday I felt like it was a lot different kind of golf
course. This is the way I think this golf course should play. It is designed to be a bit
windy because even with the flat greens, when there is no wind, it is just pretty
defenseless. That is why you see those scores like you did yesterday where everybody
shoots a low score. I expect probably more of the same. It is a more difficult golf
course.

Q. How firm are the greens?

DAVID SUTHERLAND: They are not -- they are firm, but they haven't kind of crossed that
line to where you can't control the ball. Downwind the ball will hit and run 15 to 20
feet. Seemed like some of greens are getting harder than the other ones. 12 is getting
pretty firm as well as 11. 10. So sort of hitting in that direction. If you look back in
the past history of this tournament it tends to get more difficult as the week goes along.
Perfect example was last year where it played awful hard on Sunday. I wouldn't be
surprised if by Sunday this golf course is playing pretty difficult.

Q. You talk about learning from your L.A. experience?

DAVID SUTHERLAND: Yeah, telling you earlier about that. A few guys have -- I was
leading at L.A., this year going to the last round. I was just speaking earlier about how
it was -- the great thing about playing well there was that it was such a big thing. It is
Riviera, you know, Tiger Woods and that sort of thing. Really felt like I was able to put
myself in an environment that I wasn't used to playing in which is a really -- what you
really want to do out here. You want to get yourself as often as you can in a situation as
the leading golfer on Sunday and the more often you are there, the more comfortable you
feel in that situation. I probably felt a little more comfortable today than I did, say,
on Friday of L.A. Even though I was playing well there. Hopefully I will feel a little bit
better tomorrow. This golf Tour is all about experience in the sense of putting yourself
in the position to win golf tournaments. I don't care if you are a rookie and you lead the
tournament going into the last round and you don't do well, it is a good thing. You want
to be in contention out here. I feel like I am playing as well as I was when I was there
at L.A. and, you know, hopefully, obviously -- I hope that I play a little better than I
did there on Sunday. I didn't play bad. I still finished 12th. But it wasn't -- it was
kind of unusual, too, I think there was 29 people within three shots of the lead. It was
-- actually similar to this week with all the guys. This one is going to be -- I mean,
this is a tournament where a guy can make the cut by a stroke and win the golf tournament
because the guys are 4-under par -- that is the can you tell. I mean, what 11-, 12-under
par leading the golf tournament. There is not a better golf tournament on Tour to make --
go out in the morning, golf course plays a lot easier, know what I am saying; all of a
sudden that wind picks up, who knows.

Q. Did you play last week?

DAVID SUTHERLAND: Yes.

Q. Could you sense the relief when he finally won? Did you sort of day dream that
that--

DAVID SUTHERLAND: Yeah, I was --

Q. -- what that would be like for you?

DAVID SUTHERLAND: I was awfully happy to see him win. Yeah, all the guys out here who
haven't won probably get a little excited for the guys who win when they win for the first
time. It would have been nice to see Franklin pull through last week. But Furyk is a bit
of an exception in the sense that he has so much experience and it seemed like there was a
sense of inevitability, you know, he is such a low-key guy that, you know, I think he kind
of can get underrated by a lot of people who sort of passively watch golf, but amongst
golfing circles I think a lot of guys were not very prized to see him there. As far as for
myself, personally, doesn't really do anything for copying this week. I feel good about my
game. Obviously it is early in the week. It is still Friday, I feel like, you know, I feel
really awfully good about the way I am playing right now.

Q. What does the double eagle do for your game? Does it give you that much more
confidence or do you feel like you are lucky or --

DAVID SUTHERLAND: You just kind of feel like, you know, like a hole-in-one, like, yeah,
I mean, when it went in, I was like sort of, oh, shucks about it, wow, I can't believe it
went in. Didn't really dawn on me that it was a double eagle and how unique it was until
people told me there hasn't even be been one on Tour. You that feel, like, geez this may
be my week, something like that. It isn't like you are going to get all the good breaks. I
hit a good shot, and from what I understand, it would have been a gimme if it wouldn't
have gone in. I feel like I just kind of got a one-stroke break. Pretty straightforward
shot really, but I had think -- it is more mostly kind of put away, you just sort of say,
well, I will always remember that. 20 years from now I will remember, you know, I mean
double eagle on the 14th at Heron Bay, that sort of thing. I don't know if it is anything
like, you know, like oh, this is the sign of, you know, this, that and the other. I have
had weeks where I have made holes-in-one and missed the cut. So.....

Q. Does anything go through your mind when you play that hole the next day and you are
standing over that same shot?

DAVID SUTHERLAND: Well, today a little different, but I am sure, yeah, you just --

Q. Kind of disappointed - oh, I dropped two strokes here from yesterday?

DAVID SUTHERLAND: I made a birdie today. Doubled my score, that is kind of unusual.
Went from a 2 to a 4. I honestly -- this might sound strange, I never once thought about
that today. It was -- that might have been because of the fact that I couldn't reach the
hole in two, so...

Q. You were laying up to that?

DAVID SUTHERLAND: Yeah, well I hit a 3-wood but just couldn't get there; hit it 20
yards short of the green. So it wasn't like I stepped up to the tee felt like, well, I
better, you know, hope I don't -- you know, because I mean, I am not going to make another
2. I mean, (laughs), if that happens then maybe it is my week.

Q. Sounds like it doesn't compare to your first hole-in-one?

DAVID SUTHERLAND: My first hole-in-one was the neatest. I remember that. Western Open,
it is funny, I can't remember a single thing from that year, but 1981 hole-in-one 14th
hole of Western Open. Funny thing was I was a rookie and I had like no dough, no money and
they had sort of like a hole-in-one contest. If you made one, you were eligible for it,
you get like $2,000. That was really exciting. I felt like I won a new car or something:
It was neat.

Q. Both of them, the hole-in-one and the double eagle were on No. 14?

DAVID SUTHERLAND: Yeah, didn't think of that. Made a hole-in-one on the 11th hole at
the International, Castle Pines, actually flew that one -- I don't know. I don't know how
important all this is. I also made a 3-footer one time. Made a cut shot from half court,
great.

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT