NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIP
March 22, 2019
Micah Jordan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








149 Pounds
THE MODERATOR: Talk a little bit about your match.
MICAH JORDAN: Yeah, you know, it was pretty close going throughout the whole match.  I tried to keep a high pace, and he was strong, and I just wanted to get to my attack.
Q. Your brother was the first person waiting for you when you walked off the mat, and you guys embraced in a really cool hug.  Obviously he's been in the finals before, didn't end up the way he had hoped, and your family has been through quite a bit in the last year, particularly with the loss of your cousin, Eli.  What's this moment -- if you can put it into words, you've made the finals, your brother is right there, reflecting perhaps on everything that's happened in the past year?  Where is your mind at as you go into the finals?
MICAH JORDAN: Yeah, just trying to stay in the moment.  I mean, trying to keep my emotions under control, and it's just crazy, this is my last year, and then Bo was an athlete but now he's a coach, so he transitioned well, and now it's just crazy being in the NCAA finals.
But just after that match, I was just thinking about all the work that I put up to it, all the coaches, my teammates, my family, all the support that I've had, so I'm just grateful to be in this opportunity.
Q. You talked about playing the musical chairs, all these different weight classes you've wrestled during your year, and also I think your father took this year off from coaching high school I guess just to focus on you.  Talk about that.
MICAH JORDAN: Yeah, so I feel like physically this is my best weight class at 149.  I feel like I wrestle best at this weight.  I've been to 141, that was too much, and then 57 I felt a little light.  This is my last year, I wanted to be at the weight that I wanted to be at.  I'm feeling good at this weight.
And you know, it's awesome to have my dad around, too.  He's retired from coaching, so he's been coaching for a while, so usually he's with the team and everything throughout the season, but he's been able to be there for my matches and support, so it's been awesome.
Q. Joey obviously wins his semifinal match right before you.  How much do you guys kind of ride off that momentum, seeing a teammate win right before you get out there?
MICAH JORDAN: Yeah, it definitely helps.  Once we get the ball rolling, it's awesome.  Joey stepped off the mat, once he won, I knew I had to go out there and do it, too.  I wanted to be in the finals with him.
Q. What has to happen differently strategy-wise for you to overcome Anthony?  Obviously he's a tough wrestler, he's gotten you a couple times, but what do you have to do to beat Anthony this time?
MICAH JORDAN: Just staying smart, still getting to my attacks.  Last time I wrestled I kind of shortened the gap from the first time.  I did good on bottom, so that's an emphasis.  I want to go out there and focus on when I wrestle, and then obviously just being really smart when I wrestle.  Once I go to my attack, finishing hard.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT