NL DIVISION SERIES: METS v GIANTS
October 7, 2000
Mark Gardener
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  You've had a long career but this is your first start in the post-season.  What is it going to mean to you? 

MARK GARDNER:   Well, I'm pretty excited about it.  I hope to give our team some quality innings tomorrow and keep us close.  That's pretty much my job tomorrow, and I'm excited about it. 


Q.  You are having a little extra rest over your normal time between starts, being a feel pitcher, does that make it a different situation for you?

MARK GARDNER:   I don't think so.  I've stayed ready.  I've thrown in the bullpen and I've stayed on top of everything.  I don't think it is going to be that big of a problem this time around. 


Q.  Can you talk about the Mets lineup, the key batters that you have to worry about when you are matched up against them?

MARK GARDNER:   Well, the last time I faced these guys, I had trouble with the lead off guy that got on and I had to face Alfonzo and Piazza with men on base.  And that's the key is to keep guys off the base pads in front of those two guys and just have to face them with nobody on the bases.  That way, they can't hurt you; it can't be a big inning.  I'm looking to get the first guy out, battle the next two and move on from there.  Try to keep those little fast guys off the bases. 


Q.  Would you talk about how you have to be careful with Mike Piazza, being such a difficult out? 

MARK GARDNER:   Well, he is a pretty patient hitter, and he just doesn't have to hit a strike.  He can hit a ball up and in, down and away, up and away.  He doesn't have a hole you can really go to every time.  He adjusts to you.  He's just one of those kind of hitters that just puts the ball in play, puts the bat on the ball and hits it hard.  He's tough to strike out.  That is probably one of the toughest things about Mike Piazza is he's tough to strike out. 


Q.  After all of your years in the game, what does this opportunity represent to you tomorrow? 

MARK GARDNER:   I really don't look at it as a personal thing.  I look at it more for the team.  I'd love to be out there and contribute to my team's success, and that's definitely my main goal.  Personally, I'd have to think about it after the game, depending on what happened.  It's a good opportunity for me, to get out there, to battle.  I expect to out there for seven innings and keep us close. 


Q.  Anything from your previous experience in Game 5, is there any carry over? 

MARK GARDNER:   I don't know, it was very exciting for me then.  It was very unique situation that I had ever been in, pitching in Game 1 and Game 5.  Pitched against a good team.  Ended up with that team a few years later, the Royals, which was ironic.  I don't know if I really look back on that. It's been really a long time to look back on that stuff.  A little different competition, too. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT