ABU DHABI HSBC CHAMPIONSHIP
January 22, 2017
Dean Burmester
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Tell us how delighted you are with that.
DEAN BURMESTER: Yeah, pretty amazed.  A little nervous on the first tee this morning.  I'd be lying if I said I wasn't.  I played with Peter and Ben, and they really helped me to feel at home on the course early on.  Just managed to keep a lot of mistakes off the card and I hit the ball pretty solid all day and just had a nice finish.
Q. Did you feel at home playing with those two?
DEAN BURMESTER: I feel like it obviously helps, you play with friendly guys, it always helps.  You know, sometimes you get intimidating guys and that makes it maybe a little tougher, but all the more reason for you to kind of stay in your own bubble and keep going.  Yeah, I'm just delighted.
Q. Is there a reason for this?
DEAN BURMESTER: Yeah, I think a little bit of hard work.  Last year, I was expecting big things.  I was inside the top hundred in the world, and getting into tournaments I wouldn't normally get into.  A couple of things didn't go anyway, a couple of bad bounces and a lot of frustration in there and unfortunately it just kind of leaked into the whole year, and I ended up finding myself back in Q-School, which I was not expecting.
I put in a lot of hard work after that Q-School, and it's nice to see it paying off.
Q. Probably secured your card with this performance.  What does that do for the rest of the season?
DEAN BURMESTER: That would be huge for me.  I haven't even thought of that yet.  But it would be amazing.  That's goal No. 1 coming out this week, just try and Top-10, Top-10, Top-10, as much as I can, and hopefully by the end of The Desert Swing, I'd be somewhere in a position to have a chance to hold my card.
If that's the case after today, I'd be really delighted.
Q. Was consistency the key this week?
DEAN BURMESTER: Yeah, I think so.  Like I said before, I just putted well all week.  The last four holes, I had four 1-putts, so coming in under that kind of pressure -- well, not four 1-putts, but I made four good putts coming in.  That's kind of just been the story of the week.  My caddie and I have just seen the lines on the greens really well all week.  Bit of work to do maybe on the ball-striking but I'm happy.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT