NEDBANK GOLF CHALLENGE PRESENTED BY GARY PLAYER
November 10, 2018
Dean Burmester
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Take us through the round today.  What are your thoughts overall?  
DEAN BURMESTER: Yeah, obviously got off to a bit of a shaky start.  Didn't play as well as I would have liked to the first few holes.  Missed a few putts.  Obviously birdied the first and bogeyed the second.  That's never great.   
Around the turn, just caught a bit of light and made a nice birdie on 8.  Made a great birdie on 9 after hitting it right off the tee and birdied 10, so those three in a row was really nice.   
Then just kind of strung it together, and you know, played 14 really nicely.  Made a simple birdie on 14 and then hung on.   
And obviously these last three, four holes where the wind is kind of tricky, so you know, just kind of hang on the last four and unfortunately finished with a bogey.  I was expecting a flyer out of the rough there on the last and didn't fly.  Hit a good pitch and a good putt.  That's just the game.   
 Q.  What turned things around for you and allowed to you make a few shots up on the field in the middle of your round?  
DEAN BURMESTER: I feel like I've been playing well for quite a while.  I've been working hard on my putting over the last two, three months.  So that's what's made the difference.  I started making a couple of putts.  It's pretty simple.  That's the game in a nutshell, isn't it.   
 Q.  Overall, happy with the way the rest of your game is progressing?  Is it just the putting that's a concern?  
DEAN BURMESTER: Yeah, the putting's fine.  It's not bad.  I just need to kind of knock in a couple of extra 10-footers a round, but I'm giving myself enough chances, and this is a tough golf course.  But as Fish showed today, you go around in 67, you jump from 20th right into third or fourth place.   
If we have one of them tomorrow, it will be a nice payday come Sunday.   
 Q.  How helpful to be playing along somebody who is also moving in the right direction?  
DEAN BURMESTER: Yeah, it's great, both guys, foxy and I are great mates, probably best mates on Tour, some of us, and Fisher is not bad himself.  He's not bad looking, either (laughter).  We had a great three-ball and nice to play with a good pace and it was a bit of fun.   
 Q.  Are you becoming more comfortable playing in this event and getting used to it?  There's a lot of expectations for South Africans when you come here, and it is always a big event for us.  
DEAN BURMESTER: I think last year I probably putt a little extra pressure on myself being the first one.  It's nice coming back.  My second one has been really cool and I've enjoyed it and it's nice that I've been playing pretty good.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT