MLB WORLD SERIES: METS v YANKEES
October 21, 2000
Todd Pratt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  How did it make you feel when Bobby Valentine said yesterday nobody deserves to play in the World Series more than Todd Pratt because all you've been through, all you've done for the team?

TODD PRATT: It was just great joy that moment.  I guess he told me about 30 or 40 minutes before the workout started yesterday.  I had it in the back of my mind I could have been one of the options he chose for tonight's game.  I was doubting it just because I didn't know if he wanted to take the risk of putting both catchers in the game.  I just  -- it really is just the pinnacle of my career.  Finally, I'm getting some recognition -- for the New York Mets organization, the coaching staff to give me confidence to play in a championship level. 


Q.  How improbable is it for you to be getting recognition on a team where Piazza's a catcher and yet you're going to be starting a World Series game here?

TODD PRATT: Yeah, some people have criticized me probably staying here with the Mets, playing behind an All-Star catcher.  Basically that's what I did in Philadelphia, too, with my time there.  I knew the New York Mets were going to have a chance again to play in October, and I guess it was a great choice to stay with the New York Mets. 


Q.  When you were back in 1996 working at the Bucky Dent School teaching kids, did you think your career might be over at that point?

TODD PRATT: Well, I started going into the transition period of getting on with my life without baseball.  Spending that summer at Bucky Dent's, and coaching and teaching and talking to kids kind of kept the inner fire going until that winter.  And when Jack Zdurincik called, Director of Minor League of the New York Mets, I was ready and willing to try and further my career. 


Q.  What was the story of your experience in the pizza business, and when was that?

TODD PRATT: Well, it was the winter of '96.  It was actually someone I met through Bucky Dent's was the owner of 22 Dominos Pizzas down in south Florida.  He was catering to the kids every day.  I just built a relationship with him.  And about a month before the camp was going to close, he came up to me and said,  "Todd, if you're not doing anything, I'd like to teach you the pizza business. You're going to be a grunt for a year, but after a year, I'll get you a nice, comfortable job."  So I went for it.  It was some tough work.  Thank God  -- I wouldn't mind doing it again, but thank God my career's taken off a little bit after that. 


Q.  Did you set a Super Bowl record or something like that?

TODD PRATT: I don't know  -- I doubt it was a record.  But it sure was a lot of pizzas and orders that day.  I'd say I'd probably worked 20 hours that day. 


Q.  When your career ended for the first time, before it resumed, I think the rap on you was that you were a good hitter but not a real good thrower.  Now, you're one of the better throwers in the league.  What happened there?

TODD PRATT:  Making pizzas.  (Laughter.)  I mean, I knew I wasn't a solid defense when I was with the Phillies and the Cubs.  I always had some electric in my bat, but I was a below-average catcher at that point.  And I think after sitting out that year and coaching at Bucky Dent's, I kind of coached myself some of the things that all the coaches were telling me when I was coming up through the Minor Leagues. And then I give a lot of credit to Rick Dempsey, the year of '97, when I started Triple-A, and he just worked with me every day and did defensive drills and throwing.  I think that year off actually gave my whole body a chance to completely bleed of all ill effects of what baseball was taking me through the 12 years before.  My arm felt stronger; my body felt better; my mind was clear.  I think that was the big of how I'm categorized today.  A good defensive catcher that pitches well that has a dangerous bat once in a while. 


Q.  Would you say some of the humbling experiences you've had have put this World Series in a different perspective for you? Second part of my question, who are some of the more outrageous people you've heard ticket requests from?

TODD PRATT: I think I mentioned yesterday about ticket requests.  I don't have any friends.  Baseball's my life.  I go in the winter, I spend it with my wife's family.  The only people I recall are from my wife.  First part of the question, perspective of being in this World Series, some of the humbling experiences I've had, being in the World Series in '93 and not even having a chance to play, knew I wasn't going to get in the line-up.  I was probably the 25th guy on that team.  Having the opportunity to start Game 1 today is just an accomplishment.  Like all of us, we work as hard as we can, our jobs.  One day we hope that we reach the final step, and today's that day for Todd Pratt. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT