NL DIVISION SERIES: METS v DIAMONDBACKS
October 9, 1999
Todd Pratt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Any butterflies in the stomach when you heard that you would officially be starting
yesterday?

TODD PRATT: Not really. I came in, saw my name in the lineup, right away I went to the
training room to see how Mike was doing, talked to him for a few minutes and started
getting my routine for the game last night.

Q. A lot of the guys here say, well, there is no problem, they know that you are
veteran catcher, they feel very comfortable with you. How much of an effect do you think
that stretch in April you had catching everyday, catching all the pitchers in the staff
had to do allowing them --

TODD PRATT: I always feel comfortable here in New York but the 14 game stretch in the
beginning of the year, keeping our team in first place and as you said catching the staff,
I think everybody on this team the last two and a half years knew I could play, but I
think all questions were answered that 14 days.

Q. Have you talked to Mike today?

TODD PRATT: Not at all.

Q. We have heard another thing in the past. Your experience being around a Championship
with the Phillies, is there anything that you can draw from that?

TODD PRATT: Well, I just -- every game is important. Every pitch is important. I am a
bench player now, but I was really a bench player on that team. Just try to keep the guys
up and keep them focused with all, especially here in New York, with all the distractions
that can go on, you know; we just go pitch by pitch, that is how you play the game.

Q. You have called Leiter among others. What is it about him that has enabled him to
win some of the biggest games you guys have played this year?

TODD PRATT: Well, first of all, you got to count on his experience and him being there
in the Playoffs with Toronto, with Florida; especially with Florida being one of the main
guys and Game 7 pitchers, if I am correct -- when Al uses all of his pitches that is when
he is successful. In the big games I think he has really calmed down and controlled his
emotions and used all of his pitches. When Al gets in trouble it is just harder and
harder. Today we are going to concentrate on using all of his pitches and get away from
that scenario.

Q. Is that the catcher's responsibility to keep him from getting hard, harder and
harder?

TODD PRATT: Somewhat. Pitchers the one that always make the final decision, I can only
make ideas and give him suggestions, but bottom line is when he starts his motion it is
all Al Leiter.

Q. Comments that came out yesterday, Bobby made in Sports Illustrated. What was the
reaction in the clubhouse? Does that make any difference to you guys at all?

TODD PRATT: You know, yesterday we heard a minute amount of information, basically the
only thing is there was the article in Sports Illustrated. Bobby came to us before the
game, had a meeting and explained himself in a very, very brief meeting and that is all
that was said about that article. Today there has been a little bit of buzz, but nothing
is real negative. Bottom line is that there is 25 guys on this team; it is all up to us.
The manager can't play for us. The coaches can't play for us. It is going to be the nine
guys out there and the bench players that are going to have to play the game today.

Q. Are you guys kind of getting used to this? You look at the fact that, well, this is
just Bobby?

TODD PRATT: I think it is better to say, well, this is just New York.

Q. One more thing about Leiter. If he gets in a situation where he is over-throwing or
doing something -- will you go out there and would you anticipate going out there and just
talking softly to him, yelling at him; how do you handle a pitcher in that situation?

TODD PRATT: Well, that is to briefly go back on the other question; yeah, that is my
job to calm him down. I can't really tell you how I am going to react because in different
situations of the game I might have to cuddle him and there might be times in the game
where I have to kick him in the rear and say, Al, let's do it. So there is just different
things and different emotions at different times of the game.

Q. I apologize for not having followed. Are you still doing your diary for the web site
and if so what have you written about the latest --

TODD PRATT: I have stopped doing that. I really haven't had much time, especially the
last month and a half of the season.

Q. I remember in particular the game in Chicago when Al had all the strikeouts that you
caught. He credited you with getting him to rely on the curveball which he uses -- some
games he does and some games he doesn't. What do you do encourage him to throw that pitch?

TODD PRATT: Call it.

Q. Keep calling it --

TODD PRATT: You know, if he has confidence in me and I am throwing down certain pitch
situations where maybe he was going to usually go with the hard slider, or the hard
fastball and I throw a curveball, you know, he has got to feel comfortable with him. If he
does he will throw it. It all depends how he starts off the game and how his curveball is
working. I usually call games by how I feel the pitcher is throwing that day. If he
doesn't have it early I will still go with it, and we just got to hope it is there because
it is a big pitch for him.

Q. Knowing that if you don't win today you have to go back and face Randy Johnson in
Arizona; does that give anymore urgency that this might -- to treat this like it might be
your last game?

TODD PRATT: No. None of us feel that way. Obviously if you gave me a choice or anybody
on the team a choice we don't want to have to go face Randy, but Randy is 0 and 6 and we
did beat him the first game. Pressure is all on them today. We are up. They have to win.
We don't have to win. That is the bottom line.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT