NL DIVISION SERIES: METS v DIAMONDBACKS
October 9, 1999
Todd Pratt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. After you touched first base, stopped, what was going through your mind right there?
Did you think he caught it?

TODD PRATT: Well, since I hit it I knew I had a chance. I hit it pretty well rounded
first and saw Steve starting to plant for his jump and we have all seen it a million times
on the highlight films, Steve bringing back balls. He went up and I lost the ball, kind of
paused. That is when you said you saw me stopped. I thought he had the ball actually. Then
he put his head down. I didn't see the umpire but he put his head down. I knew we won the
game right then.

Q. They say God works in mysterious ways. What has Mike said to you about the
performance, about the home run, about the taking of the spot?

TODD PRATT: Mike Piazza?

Q. Yes.

TODD PRATT: Haven't even talked to him.

Q. When people do what you did, especially in New York, they become famous forever. Are
you prepared now for being famous; are you prepared for baseball lore here?

TODD PRATT: I think that is premature. This was only divisional Playoffs. I think if it
would have been a World Series or NLCS It might have been something more -- you know,
honest with you, I could have been the goat today. There was a couple of chances, guys in
scoring positions today and with offensive power that Mike has and me replacing him and me
not coming through the first couple of, I think it was my third and fourth at-bats, I
could have easily been the goat today if the game didn't go in extra innings.

Q. How well do you know Jim Leyritz?

TODD PRATT: I know him pretty well actually. I have been playing against him since
1987, so -- but it is a little too early to call me a Jimmy Leyritz.

Q. Bucky Dent got famous just for getting his team in the Playoffs. You are a round
past. You don't think this makes you famous?

TODD PRATT: Not at all. It was a team effort and we really haven't done anything yet
actually.

Q. Have you ever heard of Bobby Thompson?

TODD PRATT: Yeah.

Q. When Mora threw that ball home, what was running through your mind; did you think
you had a chance to get it?

TODD PRATT: Yeah, the ball was hit hard off Matt Williams's bat. I just want to stop
right now, talk about Melvin Mora. You look at this kid's numbers, what he has done up
here and he hasn't really done much, numbers-wise, but seems like every big win, Melvin
Mora is mentioned. He made some great bunts in this last stretch of games. As soon as he
hit the ball and I see Mora out there, get it on the one hop, I knew -- I knew he was
going to throw him out. Jay Bell is not the fleetest player out there. I saw him rounding
third and Melvin releasing the ball at the same time and I was just at that point was
saying please be on line. He released it. Right then I knew it was on line. It was a
two-hopper and at that point I said just catch the ball and get in front of the plate,
because I knew we had him out.

Q. You are being generous and fair to everybody. Admirable. What are you going to feel
when you get home tonight and you are alone all by yourself; what will you think about
about today's game?

TODD PRATT: I am going to kiss my wife, give my son high five and probably I will be
back on my computer playing computer games. I mean, honestly, I don't think it was that
big of a deal. This is honest from my heart. I mean, yes, it was a win, but as soon as we
found out Mike wasn't playing, a lot of people amongst you were trying to put pressure on
me and asking me about the pressure but I never really felt pressure. I just felt that
just go play my game. I know I can catch. I am not the offensive power like Mike but I can
handle the bat right. I just thought if I can handle the staff good we would have a
chance. To be honest with you, it was just another another game.

Q. Break down your at-bat, were you looking for what you got?

TODD PRATT: Mantei is one of the young premier relievers. I actually think he might be
third all time of strikeouts per 9 innings; that is in history. I had a chance to give us
a lead. I think it was the 9th inning or bottom of the 8th third and first, one out, I
grounded out to him. I was choking up that at-bat because I usually choke up against guys
that throw 90 plus or upper 90s. I seen Robin bottom of that inning just miss a pitch, pop
up to right, I stood in there and told myself that I am not choking up this time. I
usually hold the bat at the end of the nob. He threw me the first pitch, curveball, that
wasn't even close. Gave me the count 1-0 which is a hitter's count. I just said if it's a
fastball anywhere I can touch it I am swinging. And I didn't choke up and I said I need to
get out in front of this one, and you know, he threw it. He actually threw it to where my
favorite pitch is, a little up and out over the plate. I just got enough steam not to grab
it in the wall.

Q. Bobby talked about facing the Braves. Everyone had you dead at the end of the season
now the Braves have to play what people call ghosts. Talk about playing the Braves.

TODD PRATT: Atlanta whipped up on us this season. One of our goals was to reach the
Playoffs, especially after that swoon we had. Now we have a chance. I mean it is time to
put up or shut-up. Braves have been the premier team of the decade. Yes, they don't have
all the world championships that they should or deserve or been there, but now we have a
chance to start a series at 0-0.

Q. You said that you didn't choke up. Are you choking up now. You are usually more
emotional than this.

TODD PRATT: I just don't want to make too much of it. I mean, don't get me wrong; I am
very happy that I gave my team a chance to go to the NLCS, but you know, I am just one guy
in the mix. I could have easily been the goat today.

Q. I understand what you are saying. I am not pressing you on it. But you -- it is just
another game and all, but you had an up and down career with the Mets went to the minors,
came back up, went back down. Today you seized your moment. Is the reason that you are not
that enthusiastic because you are already thinking about the NLCS championship?

TODD PRATT: Exactly. Last year was a very testing year for me. Every time I got sent
down last year I didn't deserve it. I mean, you know, everybody makes a big deal out of
Mike Piazza here which is correct, but I am the Mike Piazza in Triple A, you know, it was
very heartbreaking last year getting sent down there because (Laughter.) I was a career
300 hitter in Triple A, everybody knew I didn't belong there, and I just -- last year was
a very difficult year for me. They kept on bringing catcher and catcher in here and they
kept on getting sent out because I was the player and today was the exclamation point on
that.

Q. Given that frustration was there ever a time when you came close to saying forget
it, I want to do something else?

TODD PRATT: Twice last year, you all know that I sat out in the year 1996. I hated
baseball at that point because I knew I was too good a player and just was getting a bad
wrap, maybe not the bad wrap where this guy is a problem but maybe they just didn't think
I was good enough. We got to understand that when I first got called up I had a backup
Darren Dalton, he was the Mike Piazza of the early 90s. I was 25 years old and I was a
bench player. After tearing up the Triple A a couple years -- last year in spring
training, I thought I was going to be the starting catcher with Todd being hurt. I didn't
have a good spring training, the other guys did. But I was hurt when I didn't -- I didn't
make the team. At that point right there I was considering not showing up to the Norfolk
squad. If it wasn't for Rick Dempsey at that point coming to my hotel room three days
later, I probably would have never showed up. The middle of the year when it might have
been the Jorge Fabragas (ph), they sent me down I was hitting I think 327 or above 300,
playing well and they said it was a numbers game. At that point right then was the first
time I cried after being talked to by a manager. At that point I stayed here three days
then once again contemplating asking for my release and saying forget it, there has got to
be another team that wants me. Butch got hurt. I was lucky enough to get, you know, still
be in New York, got called up. There is one thing I don't want to be bashing New York
because New York is the one that gave me the chance to come back after sitting a year out
but there was a lot of frustration aned hurt last year the way I was treated.

Q. So given all that, why don't you feel terrific? Why won't you stand here and say
this is the greatest thing anybody could have ever done. You put your team in the NLCS;
why don't you say that?

TODD PRATT: It is a good question. But I just don't feel that I was the guy that put us
in the NLCS. I mean, hell if Al Leiter doesn't throw a game like today against you know,
mind the fact, guys, that the team right there is the best hitting team against
left-handed pitching. If he doesn't throw a game like he did today I don't have a chance
to swing the bat in whatever inning that was. If John Franco doesn't come in and throw
that good, that way, I don't have a chance to win the game. So that is why I feel like
this. I mean, it is very easy for a player to get very high emotional on himself and, you
know, talk himself up. I am just not that kind of player. I mean, yes, I am or arrogant
but I am arrogant inside because I know I can play this game. If not I won't be playing
professional baseball for 15 years.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT