U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2019
Ricky Castillo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  In with a 66; really great round today.  Tell me a little bit about what was on for you out there in the round altogether.  
RICKY CASTILLO: I mean, I started off a little shaky.  I hit a drive on 9 and went into a bush and made bogey on an easy par-5, so it wasn't the greatest start.   
I knew I was hitting it pretty solid all day and I just was going to give myself chances.  I saw the pins, and some of them you could get a little bit aggressive with, a lot more aggressive than No. 2.   
I really played solid all day.  Didn't really hit any really bad shots that really cost me anything besides the last hole.  I just played really solid.   
Just hit a lot of good shots, solid shots, made some good putts, and ended up with a 66.  Be excited for tomorrow.   
 Q.  2nd hole is playing pretty tough par-4 and you birdied it and then birdie on 17.  Maybe some of those last couple birdies, talk me through those.  
RICKY CASTILLO: On 2, yeah, I birdied 1 right before they called the delay and I hit it to probably about three feet and made birdie.   
On 2 right after the delay I hit a pretty good drive down the left side.  It's a little firmer over there, so it shot down.  Only had 180 left and knew that I was just trying to hand on that top tier and let it funnel down.  Did exactly that.  Went to eight feet I think and made it.   
I had a birdie putt from six feet on 3 that I just missed; birdie putt on 4 that I just missed; birdie putt on 5 -- I really hit the ball really well.   
I didn't make everything, but I made a decent amount of putts today.  It was a good day.  Then I birdied hole 7.  Made like a 30-footer coming up the hill.  So it was really solid today.   
 Q.  One stroke away from being co-medalist in this after co-medalist in the Junior Am and the North and South.  The game seems like it's on right now.  How confident are you with how you're playing?  
RICKY CASTILLO: I'm really confident, especially on this course.  I've played the North and South the past three years, so I know I know this courses better than some of the other people.  This is their first time here, some of them, but for me this is my fourth time here.  I think it helps a little bit.   
I'm pretty excited for match play.  I think it should be a lot of fun.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT