U.S. JUNIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 17, 2019
Ricky Castillo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Some anxious moments there coming down the stretch.  
RICKY CASTILLO: Yeah, it was a little tough.  Played a little sloppy.  You know, had a little pressure on me, but in the end it worked out.  It was a really good match.  It was really close probably the last four, five holes.  It was a really good way to end it.   
 Q.  A little pressure on the last 7-footer.  Curled in the left side there.  
RICKY CASTILLO: Yeah, I knew that if anything it was just going to turn a little more.  I talked to my brother, if I play a little more break it's just going to turn a little more.  I would rather miss it on the high side than miss it on the low side.  Usually when it's on the high side lip it lips in, and that's what it did.   
 Q.  What was difference into 9.  Obviously built a big lead and he came back at you.  
RICKY CASTILLO: It was tough.  I mean, I made a bad swing on 10 and made a silly bogey and he made a really good up and down.  He made a good eagle on 13; I made a 15- 20-footer for birdie and he still made a 10-footer for eagle right on top of me.   
And got a bad break on 14.  Got behind a tree and he made another good putt.  He made a lot of really good putts coming down the stretch to really make it a really close match.   
 Q.  How solid was your conceded par on 17?  
RICKY CASTILLO: It felt really good.  I mean, knowing that I had a one-stroke lead going into the last hole.  I felt a lot more comfortable knowing that if I make a birdie or even a par I still have a good chance of making it.   
It wasn't like I needed to make n birdie or an eagle or anything like that.   
 Q.  When you're able to fight off some adversity, how does that help you as you go forward?  
RICKY CASTILLO: It really does help you.  I mean, when you're thinking you overcame this, you can overcome anything.  I've definitely had it where I've been in some tough situations last few years.  Last couple years like in the first round I always had a little bit of trouble kind of switching from stroke play to match play because it's a little bit of a different mentality.   
I think I did that pretty well this year.  I think it'll be good.   
 Q.  What did you well on the front nine?  I know you birdied 5.  
RICKY CASTILLO: Yeah, I played really solid.  I mean, I just really hit a lot of fairways and a lot of greens.  Just didn't do that as well on the back nine.   
On the front nine I hit the green on 6 and I hit the green on 7 and just was -- you know, two tough holes, and I just had easy 2-putts for par.  7 we tied, but on 6 I had an easy two-putt.   
Just played solid on the front nine.  Back nine I would've liked to play like that.  Hopefully I can keep it going tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT