BOSTON COLLEGE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
August 31, 2019
Tanner Karafa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Boston College - 35, Virginia Tech - 28   
 Q.  Can you confirm that you don't have third arm?  
TANNER KARAFA: No, I don't have a third arm, that's right. That's actually a play that I've been working on. I've made a few times in practice. So I was kind of hoping that that would happen, something like that would happen. I was actually on an edge rush on that play, which is kind of unusual for me. Yeah, I've made that play in practice before. So it's part of our preparation, I guess.   
 Q.  (No microphone)?  
TANNER KARAFA: No, I didn't.   
 Q.  (No microphone)?  
TANNER KARAFA: Yeah, that's absolutely an emphasis that we worked on each and every week. That's part of our mantra. Get the ball. Get the ball back. Win the tournament. It's on the board up there. We're ecstatic. Five turnovers is excellent, and it obviously won us the game today, and it makes up for a lot when you can make five turnovers.   
I think there was even some chances where we could have had even more turnovers too. I think we're going to keep emphasizing that and keep improving on that as well.   
 Q.  Anthony played really well today. What can you say about the way he's coming along and how he's led the team this year and taking that role on?  
TANNER KARAFA: Anthony has definitely taken the next step. You could tell that during the off-season too. I knew it was coming. He's been a great leader for us. He obviously played great, and we needed that. He did an amazing job for us, and hopefully he'll continue to do that. I know he will.   
 Q.  Maybe just talk a little bit about the guys surrounding you on the defensive line today. I noticed a lot of them don't have a ton of experience. So what did you see out of them today, and what do you expect from them moving forward?  
TANNER KARAFA: I think Coach told them pretty much to just trust your preparation, cut it loose. We kind of knew that going in, that we're young, and I think we had that expectation for these guys to play well. A lot of guys -- a lot of you guys weren't sure about that, but I think we played well today. I think we're going to continue to improve. There were some mistakes out there, but next week will be better. I trust these young guys to keep improving and make some big plays in the future.   
 Q.  You've been involved in a lot of openers here in your career. Is this one the statement one, the signature one of your career?  
TANNER KARAFA: There's been a lot of big openers. This -- I'm from Virginia too, so that's the thing for me. They offered me, but, yeah, Virginia Tech played a great game, and they're tough competitors, but it's a huge win for us, and it's a statement win for us. We're going to try to take that momentum going forward. Yeah, that's definitely the best opener I feel like I've been a part of.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT