UNIVERSITY OF OREGON FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 14, 2015
Vernon Adams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Oregon - 38, Stanford - 36
VERNON ADAMS: We kept fighting out there.  It was a great team win.  And it shows us how good we can be.  That's a really good team over there, Stanford.  It was an awesome win for us.
Q. How did your offense stay in rhythm with those long stretches on the sidelines?
VERNON ADAMS: We just, our run game, really kept us in there.  And we just knew every time we got the ball, we knew we had to score.  We knew, because we knew they were going to run the clock down and try not to give us as many possessions.  So, we knew we had to score every time and we didn't score every time.  But I'm just glad our defense helped us out and we got enough points to win.
Q. Is this one of the more satisfying wins for you as a quarterback?  You were 9-9 at one point with two key touchdowns and you just made the number 17.  Was it one of more satisfying wins?
VERNON ADAMS: It's an awesome feeling.  All the doubters out there who thought we couldn't do it.  And like I said before, that team is a really good team.  Like I said before, I'm just so proud of those guys in that locker room.  I'm happy.
Q. You get limited looks on offense two weeks in a row.  How much do you work Charles into the game plan and were you surprised by how he played?
VERNON ADAMS: He's that guy.  He's Mr. Do it all, for us.  And he knows what he's got to do and they gave him his play book.  He played offense before, so he knows what he's doing.  And when they call on him he comes in and he makes plays.  So that's good for him.
Q. You guys want to be efficient going into this game but you guys were off to a really quick start.  What was the mentality and energy?  You guys, obviously, got rolling real quick?
VERNON ADAMS: That's just how we want it play.  We want to play fast and that's football, playing fast.  When we're playing fast, we're playing at our best, I feel like.  We go out there and connect.
Q. When you guys got down in the red zone you scored instead of field goals tonight.  You got touchdowns, how key was that in this one?
VERNON ADAMS: That's huge.  That's what we talked about a lot this week in a game plan.  We can't get field goals, we can't throw interceptions.  That fumble that I had, I'm getting tired of making turnovers by myself.  We knew we had to get seven points, because that's a very good football team and it came down to the wire, so just happy.  Thankful.
Q. How important was it to get a two score lead?  35-23 going into the fourth quarter, against a team like that, two scores?
VERNON ADAMS: That's huge.  Because now they're in a game that they don't want to play.  They don't want to catch up.  But if they're ahead, then now they're in their perfect offense, running the clock down and getting us out of rhythm and stuff.  So that was huge going up two scores.
Q. At what point are you going to allow yourself to ask, man, if I was just healthy this whole year, what it could be right now?
VERNON ADAMS: Man, everything happens for a reason.  It sucks, but, hey, we're all right.  We just got to take it one game at a time and we're going to be good.
Q. What did you tell Hegarty after the game?
VERNON ADAMS: I told him, man, I love you.  Good stuff all night, man.  Protecting my butt all night.  And I know, I don't have to watch film, I know on those couple sacks that it was on me.  Because the receivers either on my second read, he was there, I just couldn't see it.  So, just did a great job all night, great team win, and man, couldn't be prouder.
Q. Fourth game in a row where you have hit a dagger, I mean you just have been a dagger for the other team.  Do you guys set it up that way.  Say it's almost time to hit Darren?
VERNON ADAMS: I don't know, it's crazy.  He's always open.  He's always open.  He wasn't even part of the read, really on that play.  And I saw him put his hand up and just threw it out there.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT