MIAMI OPEN PRESENTED BY ITAú
March 27, 2021
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  P. KVITOVA/J. Konta
 6-1, 6-2
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. Tell us about the keys of this game and the expectation of the tournament.
 PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, I have to say that I'm very pleased how I played today, for sure.  I played Jo many times, and I know how difficult it is to play her.  I lost to her in Wimbledon which was very, very painful.
 Yeah, I just knew what I have to play and what I can expect from her, and I tried to play pretty aggressive from the beginning and that was the key for sure from the beginning.
 Expectation for the tournament, I don't have any.  So I'm already very happy how I played those two matches here and how my performance was.  So that's good.
 Q. Very efficient, an hour long.  Is there anything that stood out that you're most proud of with your performance?
 PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, I think that if I compare those two matches, I didn't have the best serve today.  But even my second serve was on and it was really good.
 I think I moved very well, and I played pretty aggressively.  I returned very well, as well.  So that's probably, you know, from the baseline I think I hit it pretty hard.  Few times I have been playing some volleys, as well.  So I think that was cool, as well.
 I know that with Jo I have to go forward, because from the rallies it's tough.  It's 50/50.  I tried to take it on me and play just my game.
 Q. Was the rain delay earlier in the evening that pushed your match back essentially an hour or so, was that any cause for concern or an inconvenience at all?
 PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, of course that I wasn't really happy with it.  Yeah, we were talking with my team that, you know, it's happened three times in a row for me here in Miami, in the night session with Ostapenko and two years ago against Ash, as well, with the rain delay.  So third time lucky.  That's how we called it.
 Yeah, of course, you know, you are prepared for a certain time, and the match ahead of us played pretty quickly, so we have been normally under time but unfortunately we had to wait for an hour.  But it's okay.  I had a quick nap, as well.  All good.
 Q. The next round you are facing Elina.  You have played her many years ago.  I think the last time was in 2018.  What are your expectations from that match?
 PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, it's true that it's pretty long time when we played each other, but we just had a practice here, as well.  So we have been practicing a few times together.
 We know each other very well how we are playing and what the game we are using.  We are not really playing similar game, so I just will try to play my game.  It's probably only one chance how I can beat her.
 I know that she is player who has the level very high, and you have to play great to beat her.  That's how I gonna be prepared for it.  Yeah, I think that I have a good game to beat her, but of course it's always on the two sides.  So we'll see.
 Q. How is Miami?  Are you enjoying Miami, the bubble?
 PETRA KVITOVA:   It's beautiful bubble, beautiful (smiling).  I'm very happy that some fans can come, of course.  Very happy for that.  It's better than none.  It's very sad to play without the crowd.
 So that's very nice.  We have beautiful field when we can spend some time here as well to be outside.  The hotel is very nice, as well.  I'm not saying anything against.  It's very nice to be in the beautiful bubble here in Miami.
 Actually, I'm very happy that they put it together and that we have the tournament here and we can compete and play tennis.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT