ROLAND GARROS
October 7, 2020
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  P. KVITOVA/L. Siegemund
 6-3, 6-3
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. A good win against an unpredictable opponent.  Can you tell us what you felt you were most proud of today in getting the win?
 PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, I'm pretty proud of everything I did today.  Since I wake up today I felt pretty nervous.  Going to the match I knew it will be big fight about every point.  She's very tricky opponent, she has lots of variety in her game, and I knew it will be very tough.  Of course, playing quarterfinal of the Grand Slam, it's nothing easy with the nerves as well.
 So I'm pretty happy about my side, of mental side and about how I handle it, the pressure out there, as well.
 Of course about the game, as well.  I serve very well in the first set.  It was a great one.  Then was a little bit, you know, about the few points.  When I lose the serve I break her back.
 I was still there, still staying positive, still fighting for every point.  That's I think was the big advantage for me today, because really she couldn't put easy mistakes or something like that.
 I knew I have to run a lot for sure for the dropshots, as well.  I'm glad some of them I made (smiling).
 Yeah, I'm really happy overall probably how I manage it today.
 Q. There is an Argentinian girl, to the joy of all the Argentinians, she's in the semifinals.  She's coming out of qualifications.  What does it mean to you to see that a qualifier could potentially win Roland Garros?  What does it stir in you?
 PETRA KVITOVA:   Probably not one you wanted to ask.  I mean, as we see on probably every Grand Slam, in the last rounds there is this kind of some surprise in women's draw.
 Yeah, here it's again nothing new probably.  She's in the semifinals.  She has to play great otherwise she's not there.  She beat Elina yesterday so she really has space there and she's really deserving it.
 Definitely she's playing great and maybe the qualification help her to have those three matches, for sure.  Argentinians like to play in the clay, for sure.  So that suits her definitely.
 I think mentally she's just there, for sure.  She has confidence of her game, and she's really using it.
 So, I mean, of course it's surprise I think for people of outside, but when you see her playing against those players and everything, I mean, definitely she had a great one yesterday which I saw a little bit of it, and definitely she deserve it.
 Q. You were in the semis at Roland Garros eight years ago.  Do you think you're a very different clay-court player now?  Are you a better clay-court player than you were eight years ago?
 PETRA KVITOVA:   I don't think so.  I think I'm still same clay player as I was before, but I just think that I kind of find those conditions here and I'm still mentally tough.  I mean, I played indoor, outdoor, sun, wind, whatever, rain, whatever happen.  But everything I was there, and I think eight years ago I think it was everything, you know, kind of same.  Same weather.
 So I think that's just the different.  I'm really happy that after even eight years I can be in the semifinal again of a Grand Slam after last year final of Australia.
 So, I mean, I'm really glad in the last couple of years I improved my results in the Grand Slams, too.  So definitely I'm proud of this, and I hope this journey, it's not end yet.
 Q. You were quite emotional after the last match.  Has it been a struggle this tournament to keep those emotions in check?  Can you reflect on the journey you have been on the last four years, this being your second slam in the last two years?
 PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, I get emotional in my last match.  It was happy tears, definitely, so I wasn't sad.
 It was just everything back in my mind to see whole box supporting of people who really was there when I needed them.
 Today, I mean, I didn't get emotional, but it's gonna happen anyway (smiling).  When I just look back anyway, those four years were very tough but very happy too.  I mean, of course it's a mix of emotions what happened.
 It's tough for me right now to think back, so I prefer not to, if you are okay with that.
 And I just wanted to, you know, look forward right now and maybe when the tournament is finished I can look back if you want.  Sorry.
 Q. Does this semifinal mean more to you than from eight years ago, or is it the same?  How do you feel about that?
 PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, you know, it's kind of tough to answer, because I'm still in the tournament and I'm still playing and I'm still focusing for the next one.  So I don't know how I feel right now.  I'm still there, still kind of focusing on the tournament.
 So definitely eight years ago I was young, I was already won my Wimbledon title, and I was kind of favorite and played and I lost to Maria, which she won the tournament afterwards.
 So I think for me that time was a lot of pressure as well on me, and even I didn't play like the best on the clay, I was still able to make a semifinal.  So it was huge result.
 To be honest right now to be in the semifinal after everything I have been through, which we talked a little bit about, it probably means more because I couldn't imagine that I can be in the semifinal of the Grand Slam and final of the Australian Open even before.
 So it's another miracle happen to me (smiling).
 Q. The nerves you spoke about earlier, I'd like to know if it gets easier for you now that you have been so experienced and been in so many different situations deep into Grand Slams, or does it even get trickier because maybe you feel in Paris you might not have that many opportunities to get this deep?
 PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, I mean, the nerves, it should be there as well.  I think that if I'm playing without the nerves it's not great.
 So on the other hand I'm glad that I do have those nerves, but sometimes it's just too much and it's tough to handle it, for sure (smiling).
 I didn't want to talk, I didn't want to eat, didn't want to move, I didn't want to go out there and play.  But on the other side I knew if I step there everything is much better.  It's always the both sides.
 And of course I do have the experiences as I mentioned, when I step on the court it's much better.  But actually today whole match I have been in tension and kind of nervous so I'm really glad it's over but I still feel the tension, to be honest.
 So I don't know how long it will stay for me or whatever happen happen, but I'm glad even I had those nerves which was really the big one, was the biggest in this tournament, I was still find a way and played great tennis.
 So this I'm really happy for it, and hopefully it will be great for the future to know this.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT