CHINA OPEN
October 6, 2017
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








P. KVITOVA/B. Strycova
6-3, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Another great performance today.  How would you rate that compared to yesterday's against Caroline?
PETRA KVITOVA: Definitely I felt better yesterday.  I felt a little bit tired today maybe.  On the court I felt pretty slow.  Maybe I wasn't, but that was my feeling.  Sometimes it's pretty confusing.  So, like, from my opinion, I think that I played better yesterday.
But important was today just to, you know, be kind of focused on the points which Barbora can put back.  It's pretty tricky with the slice, dropshots, high ones.  It's not very easy.  She's a very good mover, so it was pretty difficult.  I'm happy that my serve in the important kind of points was there.
Q. How do you explain the 24-match win streak against fellow Czechs?  It's pretty impressive and doesn't make a ton of sense because all the Czech players are very good.
PETRA KVITOVA: That's true.  I don't know why.  It's pretty tricky to answer that actually.  I think that we are pretty good friends from the Fed Cups.  We know each other well.  We practice a lot as well.  We probably know how the other one's playing.
Maybe it's extra motivation for us to play each other.  Maybe for me, as well.  But tough to say.  I mean, I'm playing just well when I'm playing against them (laughter).
Q. We noticed that you had 43 unforced errors today.  You usually have 30.  Will you be able to fix that for tomorrow?
PETRA KVITOVA: I don't really care about tomorrow yet.  Every day it's just different.  I think I was pretty in control of the match anyway.  Even I made some easy mistakes, I felt I'm okay.  I just didn't want to interrupt mentally.
So anyway, who I play tomorrow is going to be much different, a much different opponent.  Barbora is a lot of risk every time, as well.  I just know I have to go for that.  That's how the mistakes was coming.
But in the end I think it's kind of the part of my game anyway.  So even in going for it, I do have some great winners, but then some not great mistakes.  That's how my game is.
Q. We noticed that you got coaching in the second set.  Is it an important point to change the match?
PETRA KVITOVA: Today?
Q. Yes, today in the second set.
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I called my coach because I was 4-1 up, then I lost easily kind of my serve, then was pretty easy game which she was holding the serve.  I just wanted to do little bit talk probably, whatever he said.  He tried to calm me down little bit, as well.
It was new balls, so everything was little bit different compared to games before.
Q. A lot of players sputter during this section of the season.  It's the end of the season.  Everyone's tired.  It's tough.  You always seem to be able to sprint across the finish line at the end.  Can you explain how that's possible.
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, actually I'm getting these questions every year.  I know they're making fun of me sometimes (smiling).
I don't know why.  I'm tired, too.  Even I didn't play five months this season, but maybe that was little bit different compared to other years I didn't play the first half of the season.  Maybe I still do have energy to play.
I think the mental side is different compared to everybody.  I think everybody have just small injury, need to handle it.  Of course, for the top players, Singapore is waiting.  They are probably preparing that.
But they all are playing very well this year, as well.  I don't know why.  I mean, I was kind of mentally prepared for this kind of trip.
Maybe it's helping that I know that I'm playing well in the China, as well.  That's probably make me little bit happier, as well.  Yeah, just what I can explain somehow.
Q. Looking at tomorrow with either Svitolina or Garcia.  I know you don't want to think about it quite yet, but what do you expect there?
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, both of them playing well.  I mean, I played Carol just in US Open.  I know how dangerous she is.  She has a great form from Wuhan anyway.  She's really playing aggressive.
I think Svitolina, she's little bit better mover, I have to say.  I think I do have a good record against her.  Anyway, we didn't play long time since she improved.  We didn't play this season yet.
But doesn't matter.  I mean, it's semifinal.  I'm very happy to be in semifinal.  I couldn't just imagine this coming to Asia.  I'm already happy.  I love these big matches anyway, so I will do my best tomorrow.
Q. To prepare for your next match, do you think you will rest enough?
PETRA KVITOVA: I hope so, yeah.  I think now daily have to play match.  Same conditions for me or other girls.  We have the same things to do.  Yeah, I hope that I will recover well.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT