AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 16, 2018
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. PETKOVIC/P. Kvitova   
4-6, 6-4, 10-8   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  A tough loss.  Where do you think it slipped through your fingers there?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Many times probably.  You know, it's pretty difficult to, like, have a win from that kind of match.  Unfortunately it was me who lost.   
On the other hand, I think I was improving the whole match.  I was really fighting in the second set when I breaked her.  Kept pretty tough game on my serving.   
In the third set, I served for a few match points, then I had like twice to serve it out.  I felt like very difficult from that side because it was against the wind.   
That's how it is.  I mean, it was a great match.  Played pretty long, as well.  I feel it.  And, yeah, in the end I'm happy I was able to play anyway.  I felt support during the match.  It's make me little bit cry when I left the court, when I heard those people supporting me anyway.  So it was great.   
 Q.  Did you start to feel it physically?  Obviously it's a long match, but more than you wanted to feel it physically towards the end?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, I felt a little bit tired.  But in the end, I had few cramps in the feet.  Probably because it was long match.   
I mean, I was dealing physically pretty okay, so...  Wasn't that bad.   
 Q.  Did you have a problem with your stomach?  You appeared to be leaning over.  
PETRA KVITOVA: Probably I had, like, problems with everything (smiling).   
I felt that a little bit, as well.  I mean, it was a little bit tough to breathe in the kind of one time of the match.  But I was trying.   
 Q.  What did it mean to you to be here at all this year?  
PETRA KVITOVA: It meant a lot, for sure.  As I said, I felt it during the match, as well, the support.  I heard some Czech voices, as well.   
Yeah, as I said, I mean, when I was leaving the court, I really felt it.  It catch me a little bit, the emotions, so...   
I was pretty happy in the end, so...  I'm glad that I'm still able to play tennis.  That's important.   
 Q.  What is it about you that attracts these long matches?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I don't know (smiling).  I mean, I wish it's a little bit shorter, but...   
I fight, that's probably why it was pretty long.   
 Q.  Do you feel, having played here now this year, it's almost come full circle?  You've played at all the Grand Slam tournaments again now.  
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah.  But I'm still don't feel all the circle still.  I'm not really counting French Open, I have to say.  For me, it was like the beginning of it.  It was like, if I say it badly, it was like a practice mentally, for sure.   
Anyway, I mean, I'm looking forward for the next challenges, the next tournaments.  We have a Fed Cup in Czech Republic.  It will be amazing in the end.  Then was Miami, those nice tournaments ahead of me, as well.  The season just started.  I need to be positive like that.   
 Q.  I know the results maybe didn't fall your way in January, but just in general in terms of your tennis, are you pleased with where it's at in January?  Disappointed?  What do you think?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I lost, so it's difficult to find good things.  But overall I think I had a great pre-season anyway.  I mean, I was working really hard.  I think that sometimes I showed it on the court, as well.  I felt a little bit tight from the beginning of the match because of the nerves probably, so I could not really push myself as much as I wanted.   
You're always trying to improve the serve and returns, which I was little bit finding the way to put it this time.  But, like, when the match is little bit longer, I find as well.  The best match was probably unfortunately against Mirjana, the first set.   
Yeah, I just still think I do have space to improve, which is good.   
 Q.  In terms of schedule now, are you planning to play a tight schedule?  Do you want tournaments, play more internationals?  
PETRA KVITOVA: So far it's Fed Cup, Doha, Dubai, Indian Wells, Miami.  I don't know when we can change.  Probably nothing.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT