SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL
January 10, 2018
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
C. GIORGI/P. Kvitova   
7-6, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Talk to me about that match.  It was a high quality match out there.  
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, I think so, too.  I was -- like, I'm not really mentally down after that match.  I think she played very well, I think.  We played just once before in the Fed Cup, and she definitely didn't play like today.   
So from my side it was, like, a second match, first half of the match when I played just one set, the first round.   
So I think it was pretty good.  I had my chances, of course.  I was serving for the set.  Definitely was the key of the first set that I didn't make my service game.   
But before, like, I was really fighting two, three games when I was serving, she had some break points and I was still able to get it and then break her.  Unfortunately, I didn't make it.   
But in the end of the day, I think was -- it was a good one.  She was moving very well, as well.  She didn't give me as many easy balls.  I think was okay.  I have just few days to get ready for Melbourne now.   
 Q.  How do you feel about your preparation?  A lot of it was taken out of your hands with getting sick and everything, but do you feel like you got enough kind of match rhythm, you know, here?  Just a little bit?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, I didn't really feel like I'm missing the matches that much.  I think all the preparation I had was okay.  Of course, I lost something during the first week in Brisbane when I didn't play.  I still do have a cough, so it's still a little bit weak.  So I'm happy that I have still few days.   
Yeah, I didn't really felt like I need more or something.  It was just a good match.  I'm happy with that, anyway.   
 Q.  What are you the most happy with that you are seeing transition from the preseason and the practice courts on to the match courts?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I think I didn't really move badly.  I think it was a good one when we really played pretty aggressive rallies.  I was still able to get low and push it back, even I had to run a little bit, as well.   
Of course sometimes like with the timing it's not that great so far, and I think that I, like, for example today, mentally, when I was, like, holding my serve in the first set, it was pretty good.  And, yeah, the serve wasn't really bad, anyway.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT