U.S. OPEN
September 5, 2017
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
V. WILLIAMS/P. Kvitova   
6-3, 3-6, 7-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  What are some of the emotions right now?  You played so well, but it wasn't obviously the result you might have been hoping for?  
PETRA KVITOVA: It wasn't enough, right?  Well, what can I say?  I feel very tired right now.  Of course, as a loser, it's more tiring than as a winner.   
But it was pretty close, pretty intense, I think, the last couple of games in the third set.  It was just about a few points, and yeah, I mean, she played very well in the tiebreak.  She held her serves, 5-4 and 6-5, which I think was very important for her, not good for me.   
But I believe I had my chances in the tiebreak, but I think that she played pretty well, the tiebreak.   
I think it was a good chance for both of us.  Of course I'm not sitting here as the happiest person in the room, but that's how it is.   
 Q.  Did it come down to maybe just not having enough experience or not having enough matches of that caliber this year?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I don't think so.  I mean, I played very well.  I don't think it was about missing any, like, matches or anything like that.  We played two-and-a-half hours, and I had my chances, kind of.  I had a break in the third, but it wasn't about the breaks today, I have to say.  Even we were pretty big servers.   
Yeah, it was just the tiebreak which decided.   
 Q.  Why do you think you play such close matches with her, aside from the fact that you're both great players?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I don't know.  When we came to the third set, I was like, okay, three-setter again.  But I have no idea.  I think that both of us, you know, know that we can play well.  We can play well against each other.  I think always kind of these matches are showing the best from us.   
So it's always up and down about the few points and the set, and probably that's why we are always fighting, and just third set have to decide it.   
 Q.  It seemed like there was even more noise than normal during points tonight.  Is it hard to concentrate?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I wasn't really, like, hearing the crowd that much.  I was pretty in myself.  I know the crowd was pretty noisy and kind of with great points.  On the other hand, I didn't really -- you know, I was thinking about it.   
I knew it's a little bit noisier than in Wimbledon, but on the other hand, it was a good one.  I don't think there was any, like, tough things from that.   
 Q.  Has this tournament changed the way you might think about the rest of your career now?  I wonder, do you feel now that you have got more Grand Slam titles in you?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I don't know (smiling).  Of course I didn't know how my career will continue.  I'm glad that I am still able to compete on the high level against the top players which I hope will give me some confidence for hard work again to continue to play well, to know that it's still there somewhere.   
And I'm not sure about the titles of the Grand Slam.  Of course that's why I'm playing tennis, and that's why I wanted to be back and playing, and is a big motivation.  But I'm still on the earth, and I know it's still a lot of work.  Even was quarterfinal, but I know how tough it is to get a title for a Grand Slam.  It was pretty close but pretty far, as well.   
 Q.  When you think of how far you have come since December, how sort of satisfying is what you have achieved over the last few months?  
PETRA KVITOVA: It's tough to say right now, but overall, I think it's amazing.  I didn't really think that I can come so far.  Was great to win in Birmingham, but I think was pretty early that I put a little bit pressure on me, and I just wanted to play better and better, which I wasn't pretty ready for that.  I'm just glad that I could show it here, that there is a way to play well again.   
So from my side, in a couple of days I hope that I will say, Good job.  But not just now.   
 Q.  Venus is pretty incredible.  She's been doing this for 20 years.  37 years old.  Didn't seem to tire much over two-and-a-half hours.  
PETRA KVITOVA: No, she doesn't (smiling).   
 Q.  Just talk about her, both her game and as a person, what you feel about Venus.  
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, she's a champion.  I think those are the words which describe everything.  On the court and off the court, I think she's really playing well.  The majors this year, semifinalist so far here.   
Playing well in this age, after so many years, it's amazing.  I cannot imagine myself playing 37, but she likes it and she has the motivation.  I think it's a great thing to have for her, and I just wish her luck in the end of the career, and I think that she can have so many titles still.   
 Q.  Could she win the next two matches?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I think she can.  I hope so, actually (smiling).   
 Q.  Digging out of those service games, 15-40 down twice, I think, Love-40, as well, you came up with some of the best serves that you had hit all match.  I'm just curious what your thought process is like in those moments to hit those serves, and then secondly, the double fault to get back the break in the third set.  Were you going for a lot because you had been serving as well or what do you think happened?  
PETRA KVITOVA: About a double fault, of course I didn't want to make it, but I think that she put like a lot of pressure on the returns, especially on my second serve.  She stand pretty close.  She was going for it.  I just didn't want to put it like that.  But I think I wasn't really serving well the last two matches.   
Fortunately, I find the serve in the end of the third set, but, yeah, I had the break in the third and unfortunately I gave her back.  I knew there was still a chance to be there and wait.  But I'm glad I find the serve.  I hope I will have it in my bag a little bit longer.  That's how it is.   
I don't know any, like, thoughts on my serve.  Sometimes I'm just there and just try to hit it anyway, and sometimes it's in, sometimes it's out.  I'm really wanting, that's how it is.  It was a smart answer, right (smiling)?   
 Q.  Wondering how you're going to approach the rest of this year.  Obviously last year you had a lot of success in those last two or three months of the year in Asia.  How are you approaching those after the last few weeks or are you just going to enjoy it?  Anything you want to achieve or want to do?  How do you approach that?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I just asked my PR manager if I do have a chance for Zhuhai.  She didn't know, so I have no idea.   
Yeah, I'm playing Tokyo, Wuhan, Beijing and Tianjin.  It's a pretty long trip in Asia, but I didn't play for five, six months.  That's okay.  It's not place I really love, but I don't know.  I'm really looking forward to be there standing on the court again.   
After this great run here, I hope will be a little bit easier for me to breathe and play well, and no expectation again.  I mean, just finished here.  I didn't really think about the Asia swing so far, but I will need to in couple days, and, yeah, the season, it's getting to finish, which I start pretty light and it's already finishing.   
Yeah, it will be nice.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT