AEGON CLASSIC
June 25, 2017
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








P. KVITOVA/A. Barty
4-6, 6-3, 6-2
Q. Petra, could you give us some of your emotions now you've actually won this?  This is an amazing week of your new life.
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, that's true.  Right now I'm very tired.  Sorry.  You know, all week the body and the mind is so intense, and today I was kind of nervous before the match and through the first set as well, and I was up and down in the match.  And when I didn't play that many matches, it's always taking me more energy, I think.  But overall I'm very, very happy, of course.  I didn't expect this in my second tournament after my comeback.  So yeah, I think it's kind of a fairytale.
Q. Can you talk us through that first set, because no first serves in the first game.  It took you a while to find your range.  What changed for you in the second set?
PETRA KVITOVA: I have no idea.  I started first set, and you know, I hold my first serve, then I didn't return anything in the second of the game, and then on her serve it was really difficult.  I couldn't return her serve for a very long time, until 5-4, which I was still believing in the first set, and when I put the return in the court, then maybe I can get some more rhythm or something.
But this game and the last game of the first set, but still didn't -- I wasn't able to make that game.  And from the beginning of the second set, I was believing in myself a little bit more than in the first set.  And I started to put a return into the court and tried to not probably hit as many unforced errors, but tried to play a little bit more rallies and get to my rhythm and get to my shots.
Q. You looked a little nervous to me.  Did you doubt yourself at the beginning, being in the final and suddenly a little bit of pressure?
PETRA KVITOVA: I was nervous, yeah, I think so.  It wasn't the normal nerves as I had before, but still, I was a bit.  You know, it's my first final after such a long time.  And yeah, it was a bit difficult to handle it.  And I didn't serve well today.  I struggled a lot.  But still, in the end, I mean it's nice when you win -- like when you're playing well, you win, but most of the times the best days when you win when you are not playing well.  So I'm happy that I was able to win it anyway.
Q. Petra, congratulations on that final.  What aspect of that performance today will help you in looking forward to Wimbledon, especially, next month?
PETRA KVITOVA: I think maybe it will be weird, but I think it was nice to lose the first set, that I had to fight for the second and for the third, I think will give me some extra confidence that I am still able to fight, even I lost the first set and still win it.  So I think that's important as well.
Yeah, it will be nice if I win 6-2, 6-2, but in the end not any easy matches like that in Wimbledon.  So I'm happy that I still managed to turn the match around.
Q. Petra, does it feel that you really are back now, that you're back to being Petra with the three?
PETRA KVITOVA: No.  I play just one match in three sets.  Come on.
Q. No, does it actually feel that you're back into that routine a little more?
PETRA KVITOVA: I know it what you mean.  (Laughs).  Yes, I mean I'm happy that I won in three sets today, because I lost the first one.  But no, my plan is not playing three sets every time.  So I will try to shorten it, but if I lose the first one, I will fight for the third one, for sure.  That's what I can promise.
Q. Because of what you've been through, because you were out six months for something that was very unfortunate that happened to you, does this trophy mean more to you than some of the others you've won in the past?
PETRA KVITOVA: Definitely, yes.  I think -- I mean it's hard to say anything, but I think I've been through a very difficult time in my life, and it wasn't about the tennis, but about to come back healthy and alive and move my fingers properly and everything like that.  And this is something clearly special.  It's some bonus to have in my life and my career and everything.  And that's what I fight that hard to come back to play tennis.  And I always said that I'm not here just to play tennis.  I'm here to play my best and to win trophies, like today.  So I have to say I'm kind of proud of myself that I did it today.
Q. Petra, in the third set after getting broken back and she's up 2-2, 40-0, something seemed to change a little bit.  So what happened?
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, it was 2-2 -- I get a little bit angry with myself, I have to say, when she broke me for 2-2.  I lost my headband.  But I don't think that was a big change.  In that game, I'm not sure.  I probably just said to myself that I need to go for it.  I put a great three returns into the court and that's what I think changed the whole match then.  Yeah, I put the great returns over.  She lost the first one a little bit easier, I think, with the forehand, but I wanted to like go for it, and that's what paid off in that time and I was just continuing that.  And I think that I -- after that game I was more relaxed than before.  It's nice to see you here.
Q. Petra, players always thank their team at the end when you win something, thanks for being here, guys, but I would think for your team it's extra special, isn't it, because they've seen you through those very dark moments.  Can you just talk about the support that you had?
PETRA KVITOVA: I think it's a question more for them, but when -- well, they stayed with me in such a horrible time.  And I think that made us stronger in the end.  You know, sometimes people get stronger when anything bad happens.  So I feel more strong in our team right now, and I'm very happy that everything is working well.  It's always difficult to find someone who understands your personality, who understand what you need.  Jiri is a new member of the team.  Not so new.  Six months.  But still, it's very new for him to watch me play.  And I think that everything is working very, very well.  And they support me all the time.
I know that it wasn't a difficult time right now when I am not playing bad, but I think that if I will play bad or something or I will not win many matches, I think that they will still think that we had more difficult time than just losing the matches.  So I'm really happy that they are like seeing this moment like that.
Q. Petra, your physical recovery speaks for itself.  I just wondered how difficult the emotional recovery has been, forgetting about what happened to you, and focusing on the job at hand, how complex a process has that been.
PETRA KVITOVA: I think the worst was in Paris when I really couldn't put these bad thoughts away.  I'd have to say through this week I was much better.  Actually, I got a little bit emotional the last game of my service game in the match.  But it was just for a while and I'm -- I'm happy that it came because it means a lot that I'm still able to play well after that.  And I think mentally I'm getting better every week.  So it's nice one.
Q. We saw some quite entertaining rallies between yourself and Ashleigh.  How satisfying was it that you were able to then put some shots together which were out in the wide channels and she couldn't do anything about it?  How satisfied were you with that?
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I think that she played great, I have to say, because she has a totally different game compared to other girls.  She's playing very nicely, I have to say.  I think it's nice to watch it.  It's worse to play it.  But you know, with her slice and how she's seeing the game, it's something really unusual and it's unusual for me, too.
So I was really, you know, I was still trying to focus what kind of shots she will put into the court.  And as I said, in the first set I think I did so many unforced errors which I tried to reduce it in the second and the third one.  Just not probably -- not very good tactic and just tried to be in the rhythm with her and tried to wait for better shots than before.
And yes, I think that she served very well as well, so it's unusual.
Q. You know what it takes to go deep into a Grand Slam.  Wimbledon, you get a day off but seven hard matches.  Physically going into Eastbourne now, do you feel tired?  Do you just want more matches?  Where do you need to be going into Wimbledon?  Are you feeling you can go that two weeks?
PETRA KVITOVA: I don't know.  I had a great five matches here, which I think is great preparation.  I do feel tired right now, but I'm not sure if it's physically or mentally.  Maybe both.  And I will see what will happen in Eastbourne.  I mean, of course, Wimbledon is the priority now, but I mean I had the best preparation so far.
Q. Petra, you mentioned getting a little bit angry with yourself in that early third set.  At the end of the second set, too, it seemed like you had to fight through to get through that service game.  Even back to the French Open, the match against Bethanie, there have been times where the competitive fire has kind of kicked in.  Have you been surprised as to how quickly you've been able to kind of tap into that?
PETRA KVITOVA: That's what was one of the positive things which I had in Paris against Bethanie, that I had still the fighting spirit, which I wasn't really worried, but I just didn't know how everything would be.  So today I knew that it's there.  So I didn't have to be worried about it if it will come or not.  But the important points I think the fight spirit was there, and I'm happy that I still managed to show it, to feel it and it's amazing to feel it again.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT