U.S. OPEN
September 1, 2017
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
P. KVITOVA/C. Garcia   
6-0, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  I'm wondering, has life gotten back to normal for you now?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Sometimes.  Sometimes I do feel a little bit more normal than before, especially on the court and around players and people, around the tennis, which I'm very grateful that I can be part of it again.   
The life is still a little bit strange, but it's getting better, as well.  Hopefully one day will be better.   
 Q.  How good was that match today?  Was that the best match you have played since Birmingham, possibly?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I think I played better than in Birmingham today, and the round before.  I'm really pleased with the game I showed today.  I mean, the serve was pretty working today, especially the shade on center court is a little bit tricky, so you have to work with that, as well, be in the sun or be in the shade.   
But I think that I moved pretty well, as well.  I knew that it would be tough match.  I remember her from the last time.  We played in Fed Cup, and she just was really on fire.  That's what I tried today, to be more fired up than her.   
 Q.  Is it surprising to you at all that you have been as successful as you have in this tournament after all that's happened to you the last few months?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Tough to say if I'm surprised.  I came here not with the great results on the hard court, but on the other hand, I feel that I'm playing good, like, in the tennis matches or in the practices, whatever.   
Wasn't just everything together.  I'm glad everything so far clicked together and showing a good game which I'm playing now.  On the other hand, I'm more pleased with now that I know it's still there than just to be surprised of the performance.   
 Q.  Mentally, after what you have been through, is it easy to get back on the court?  
PETRA KVITOVA: It's much more easier to come back and play, definitely, compared to first tournaments after my comeback.  It's much more easier for me to feel more normal than before.   
 Q.  You have got another first coming up.  You haven't faced a Top 10 -- or you might face a top-10 player in your next match against Garbiñe.  What would that pose as a challenge for you?  Would you go into that match differently or just be...  
PETRA KVITOVA: I would be happy if I see Top-10 player finally.  That's means I'm kind of deep in the tournament, finally (smiling).   
I don't really care.  I mean, I will just play my best what I can.  I know her pretty well.  We played a few times already, last time in Beijing.  She has a great game.  She has a good confidence right now, as well.  I think she's really going for the shots and playing her best, for sure.   
It's nice to play someone who won a Grand Slam this year.  I'm really looking forward for the big stage and for that match.   
 Q.  How do you explain or describe how you have improved at this tournament over time?  It used to be kind of, you know, the tournament that we thought, oh, this might be a little bit tough for Petra with the humidity and everything, but it's been more consistent for you as you have gotten older?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah.  I don't know why it is happening.  On the other hand, I'm glad for that, for sure.  After those two Grand Slams this year, of course I shouldn't count it as a, like, tennis matches or whatever, but I think finally I found out, like, my plan or how to deal with these conditions and with the US Open.  It's pretty far from the hotel, so I'm not really practicing on the day off again.   
So I think that I have been lucky with these conditions, with the weather this year so far, you know, playing the first matches or wasn't pretty humid or pretty hot.  I do really feel that this whole thing just are lucky for me right now.   
 Q.  It was almost cold this morning.  
PETRA KVITOVA: It was cold (smiling).   
 Q.  How aware are you of the conditions, like, was it in practice this morning or coming out to the warmup?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I knew it yesterday already that it should be colder than before, so, you know, when you're sitting in the car, you can't really recognize it, but then it was pretty windy and pretty cold.  We had to warm up on Ashe, so it was nice to have the roof on.   
Yeah, it was a little bit cold.  But then the sun came and it wasn't that bad.  During the match, the sun was pretty warm and in the shade was pretty cold when you're sweating.  It was kind of funny, but I didn't really care.  I mean, it's better than to be, like, 30 degrees or something.  I don't care.   
 Q.  A nontennis question.  Are you a fan of using the salons that they have at the Grand Slams for the players?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I'm fan of the salons but not really on-site (smiling).   
I don't want to spend, like, more time than I have to on-site, so I'm preferring, like, in the city.   
 Q.  Why would a player choose to do that, use the amenity on-site rather than going into Manhattan?  Do you know of players who get their nails done on-site?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, I did it, as well, like, few years ago.  It's just nice to have this option.  I mean, sometimes you are waiting for the practice, for example, in the afternoon, or you're playing doubles later or whatever, so it's just, you know, nice to have your nails done before your match.   
 Q.  How close do you think you are to being to your game, being where you think it can be?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I think kind of those two matches, maybe in the first round, as well, I do feel much more better and closer to my top level.  I think that I really played great today, as well.   
I'm still not there, for sure.  I think still my hand is not 100% ready, so I do feel hopefully that I do have, like, space to improve.   
But on the other hand, I will be very lucky if I am playing like this today every day.   
 Q.  You just said your hand is still not 100%.  In what ways during a match does it limit you?  What can you not do the way you would like to on the court?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I'm still working on the strength, I think, which is still missing.  I'm really not thinking about it when I'm playing much.  I'm just taking how it is, and that's what I'm working on.   
Finally, I think that I can hold a little bit better than before.  From the beginning, it was really difficult to play some big, aggressive shots.  But luckily I find a way to hit it so far here in the tournament.   
So it's easier.  And the movement is still not great, as well, but for the grip of the tennis racquet it so far is okay.  I'm glad it's still pretty okay.   
 Q.  New York City is a very popular setting for movies and songs.  Growing up, if you saw New York or heard about it in a song, did you think I'd like to visit this city some day?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I do remember the movie Home Alone, something like that, from New York.  But I have been in New York for musical.   
 Q.  The musicals?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Broadway.  It was Hair, I think.  Yeah.  But otherwise, I don't really remember anything.  Probably wasn't my favorite city from young age (smiling).   
 Q.  I'm just curious, at Wimbledon and at the French Open, were you practicing during off days?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Yes.   
 Q.  You were.  But here you're not?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I'm not.  Yes.   
 Q.  Just because it's so far?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Yes.  Maybe.  I don't know.  Just coaches just came to me and say, You have a day off tomorrow.  I say, Okay.   
So I don't know.  I don't know why.  You have to ask them (smiling).   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT