U.S. OPEN
August 28, 2017
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
P. KVITOVA/J. Jankovic   
7-5, 7-5   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  That's a tough first-round opponent.  No one likes Jankovic in the first round.  She pushed you hard out there today.  To get through a match like that to start this campaign, is that a good feeling?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Definitely it is.  I mean, of course I'm happy.  It was a tough match, as you said.  As always, a tricky opponent.  With the wind today, it wasn't really easy to find a way.  Sometimes I just played to middle, because I didn't want to miss.   
Yeah, we had a couple of great battles in the past, so it's always tricky to play with her.  I know she didn't really play, didn't have like lot of matches, same as me, so it was just who will be lucky in the end, which I think I took my chances in the ends of the sets.   
 Q.  Talk about your form coming in.  Obviously the result in New Haven not what you were looking for.  What do you feel right now about your game?  What's your anticipation for this tournament?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, luckily I played better than in New Haven, so if I play the same as New Haven, I would not be sitting here as a winner.   
I'm happy for that, definitely, that -- you know, in the tennis, every day is just different, and I just try to find a way to get better.  I know that not every day is the best day.   
That's how it is.  Of course, I wanted to have more matches coming here, but on the other hand, I'm really glad that I'm here.  In the end of the day, I'm very happy.   
 Q.  How would you compare how you're feeling right now with how you felt at Wimbledon?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I think that I'm more relaxed right now.  I think that in Wimbledon, I was a bit nervous before every match, and today I felt a little relaxed and not really thinking too much about the tennis and about the match but just trying to enjoy myself on the court.   
 Q.  How about physically?  What's the difference from then until now with your progress from what happened?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, from Wimbledon, second match when I played, I didn't really feel physically perfect, but that was different story.  Not really about my hand.   
My body is not falling apart, which I'm very happy for that, and my hand is progressing.  I hope one day will be everything perfect.   
 Q.  Obviously there is a lot going on on the grounds with the construction and everything.  Your impressions of the temporary court.  Does it feel like the US Open, or does it feel like a different place?  
PETRA KVITOVA: It feels like the US Open, but on the other hand it was a bit weird, I have to say.  From one side, when the sun came, I didn't really see her serve, so it was just a little on my side.  The same for both of us, of course.  But it was just a little bit different compared to other stadiums, for sure.   
But on the other hand, I mean, I'm not really complaining anything, because I know that US Open want to improve everything.  So why not?   
 Q.  In Stanford you said you were looking forward to things going back to normal after everything that happened over the spring.  Four tournaments later, now playing your fifth, I guess, over the summer, does it feel normal?  Does it feel closer to normal?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I'm getting there slowly (smiling).   
 Q.  What are the things that makes it feel normal or...  
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I think like things like seeing other players, seeing coaches, being on the tennis court, practicing with other girls, that feels more normal than before, for sure.  For me, like, warmups before the matches or matches are already normal, I have to say.  But on the other hand, it's still very special and I'm still very grateful for it.   
Yeah, few things are more normal than before, but few are still a little bit different.   
 Q.  Next with Cornet, another veteran player that can cause problems, what do you anticipate from that match?  What's the key for you?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I didn't know it before you told me.   
 Q.  You're welcome.  
PETRA KVITOVA: We played few times already.  I think one year we played here, actually.  Yeah, I think that she can really control the balls.  She can really push you, as well.  From the backhand I think that she's pretty solid.  With the forehand it's a lot of topspin, which I think maybe it's paying off up here.   
Yeah, I will see.  I mean, if I will serve as today, it will be very great for me to have this kind of help.   
I will see.  I'm not really thinking right now about the next match.  I will be tomorrow, probably.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT