AEGON CLASSIC
June 20, 2017
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








P. KVITOVÁ/T. SMITKOVÁ
6-2, 6-3
Q. Congrats on the win.
PETRA KVITOVÁ: Thank you.
Q. How would you assess the way you played today?
PETRA KVITOVÁ: I think this first match on the grass was pretty good.  I think that I served well and I played good shots from the baseline.  I think that she served very well, especially first serve.  And yeah, I mean I had good timing on the court today and I'm happy the way I played.
Q. How good does it feel to be back on the grass and how much have you looked forward to this?
PETRA KVITOVÁ: It feels great.  I mean I love playing on the grass.  I love every movement on that.  You know, it's my favorite surface.  I'm really happy to play on it again and be able to play here in Birmingham.
Q. How is the hand today?
PETRA KVITOVÁ: The hand was good actually.  Very good.
Q. Since Paris, how did it react after the clay and have you had to make additional adjustments on the grass?
PETRA KVITOVÁ: No, no, no.  No changes, nothing after the Paris, which is good.  We were practicing on the hard court, so it was a little bit of transfer.  We are still worried about the hand, so we are not practicing that much.  We still have days off to work on my hand, and it was very good today.  So I'm happy with that most, yeah.
Q. Petra, have you had any grass court practice before you came to Birmingham or is this your first time you've stood on the grass?
PETRA KVITOVÁ: No.  It's the first time here in Birmingham.  We came on Thursday.  So I already hit Thursday evening, and from the time just here.  I was practicing on hard court before.
Q. You are playing a Brit Naomi Broady next.  I don't know if you've played before.
PETRA KVITOVÁ: I don't think so.
Q. What do you know of her game and what are you going to expect?
PETRA KVITOVÁ: You know, I just finished my first match, so I didn't really think about my next one.  But I know her a little bit.  I know that she's tall, so she's serve well, and I think that she likes grass, she really hits hard shots.  She has a one-handed backhand.  That's all I know.
Q. In Paris you were talking about how the main thing was just to be back playing matches and how exciting that was.  But does it feel very different on grass in terms of your ambitions and expectations?
PETRA KVITOVÁ: It feels different.  I mean I'm happy that I have everything done with the media and the pressure and everything as was the comeback in Paris.  So I'm glad that now I can focus on tennis, especially on the grass, and I'm just happy that I'm just here to play tennis and not really think about anything else.  And that's important that I am back in reality and just playing the matches.
Q. And away from tennis what's the best thing about being back -- well, just tennis, but back on the tour and not rehabbing and all of that.  What's been the best thing for you?
PETRA KVITOVÁ: The time off, I think that's it.  When I'm in a tournament, I have more time off than really when I'm practicing.  So that's the best.  I'll go just for a coffee or for a little walk or something like that.  And that's what I do have time now.  Unfortunately, I don't have time for study as well, so I should do better in that as well.
Q. You're continuing with that?
PETRA KVITOVÁ: I do.
Q. Just looking ahead to Wimbledon, obviously, you've won there twice, how important is this now to get good practice in on the grass?  Do you see this as a really important week obviously for you?
PETRA KVITOVÁ: Yeah, it is.  Especially when I missed other matches, so I'm glad they gave me a wild card here.  I'm very happy for that.  Yeah, the matches are the most important practice for us before the big event which is coming in Wimbledon.  But I mean every match when I'm playing now it's great.  So I hope I have more than just a few.
Q. Obviously you've had an unfortunate absence.  How long do you expect it to take before you could get sort of playing your best again?
PETRA KVITOVÁ: If I know, I would tell you.  But yeah, I mean my hand is not 100 percent.  It will never be actually.  So it's going to take one year, two years when everything will set up.  I'm happy I didn't have to change any techniques or any differences in my racquet or anything like that.  So that's important for me to know that I'm trying to play as I did before.  And now it's just about the practices and about the matches.  So we'll see.
Q. You took the bold step of taking time off a couple of years ago just to reset.  Now obviously you've come back off of a forced absence.  Can you sort of talk about the different change in mindset from coming back after taking that time off when you had glandular fever as well and coming back off something that almost took away your tennis?
PETRA KVITOVÁ: Yes.  It's a big difference actually.  And it's a good question.
Q. I try.  I try.
PETRA KVITOVÁ: That time when I took off I didn't play in that month in Miami I felt very exhausted mentally.  I felt like empty.  I always love to play tennis with the passion and with love, and ^ that time I missed that a bit.  From the time when I had the one month off, I came more fresh, if I can say.
This time I'm fresh, too, but for different reason.  I didn't want a break, but as you said, somebody took it from me.  And it wasn't my truth, but I'm always trying to look positive on the things, so everything bad is for something good.  So I feel that I am maybe love tennis even more than before because I know what it means for me.  And I always know why I'm playing this sport and always love competing, and I missed the fight and I missed adrenaline during the matches.  So I'm happy that I have it back.
There was time when nobody ever know if I were able to play again, so I'm more appreciated about this time.  And probably even if I lose, I will always smile and to be happy that I'm back.  So that's kind of different.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT