AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 26, 2017
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Petra has pulled out of the tournament with an abdominal strain, but she is going to do a press conference.  We just need to make you aware because of the ongoing investigation into the events in December, she can't address questions about that.   
 Q.  How bad is it, the rib?  
PETRA KVITOVA: It's the abdominal muscle.  It gets tight in yesterday's final.  I hope it's nothing serious, but I do feel one spot specifically.  I hope it will be fine in a couple of days, hopefully.   
 Q.  Can you practice?  Will you be able to practice?  Are you going to have treatment now?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I will have treatment.  I will not practice for a couple of days, for sure.   
 Q.  Any word if it might affect you at Wimbledon?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Hopefully not (smiling).  That's what I will do my best to get ready for Wimbledon.   
 Q.  I guess this is something you couldn't have prepared for, the rigors of playing five matches in a row, you know.  You know what that feels like now.  
PETRA KVITOVA: Yes.   
 Q.  Is it actually a blessing you can get a couple of days off after an emotional and physical week?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I'm disappointed I can't play here, for sure.  It's a great tournament.  I played final one year and always been great preparation for me for Wimbledon.  I don't really like pulling out from tournaments.   
As you said, I didn't know how far I will go in Birmingham.  Of course I'm happy how I played there, but it's just getting tight and I can't just continue to play.  I need a bit relax to heal all the pain in the body, especially in the abdominal muscle.   
 Q.  24 hours on from winning the title, can you just quantify how elated you actually feel after everything that's happened?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I feel very tired (smiling).  Mentally, physically, I didn't really sleep well, as well.  I just think everything what happen in the last couple of months, especially yesterday, was kind of dream, and I can't still believe everything what happen.   
Yeah, to have a title after that time on the grass, which I always love to playing on grass, it's just very special for me.   
You know, when we were thinking about coming back to play in Roland Garros, now I see the decision very, very clear.  It was a great decision that I can play grass season for 100% and do what I can and to be ready for Wimbledon.   
 Q.  It's one thing to be able to play again but another thing to know how high a level you can play.  Winning that title, as well, must convince you you are capable of winning big tournaments.  
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, sure.  Nobody really know how I will play, how the hand will react, how my mental side will work on the court.   
But I saw in Paris that I didn't really have enough practices before going to Paris, but I think I played good level of the tennis.  Not best, for sure.  My mentality was there.  I was really fighting.  I had a fighting spirit all the time, so that was really good news for me, and that's what I can build other things on, which I'm really happy for that and I'm really appreciated I still do have the motivation and the feelings which I always had in the matches.   
 Q.  Do you see yourself as one of the favorites now for Wimbledon?  A lot of people are making you up there as a top contender.  
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, actually, I don't.  I mean, I just came back to play tennis, to enjoy the sport which I always loved.   
Maybe the last tournament change something in people's minds but not in mine.  I'm really enjoying every match what I'm playing.  Still, I think I still do have lot of things to improve.   
I showed myself that I can play five matches in six days, but now I need a bit relax to be ready.  I know how tough it is to win a Grand Slam, so I'm not really seeing myself as one of the favorites right now.   
 Q.  Is that because of the physical challenge of playing that many matches over that length of time?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I think the six months is long time.  Even the hand it's not in the pain, I'm still trying to recover as fast as I can.  I really don't know how the body will react.  I can't really train it in the practices.  The matches are different with the tightness, with the body and the nerves and everything.  I will just take it day by day, and we'll see.   
 Q.  You told us in Paris how your hand was feeling now.  Five matches on, how is it feeling now?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, after Paris I think it's two, three weeks, which it's better, as well.  My hand, it's fine.  It's no pain, which is the most important thing.  I think the strength is there, as well, getting better and better.  That's important right now.   
I mean, in Paris it was still few things which I wished is better.  Now is better but still missing something.  As I played, I think it wasn't that bad.   
 Q.  So there were no adverse reactions at all throughout Birmingham?  
PETRA KVITOVA: No.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT