HUAJIN SECURITIES WTA ELITE TROPHY ZHUHAI
November 4, 2016
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








P. KVITOVA/B. Strycova
6-1, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please.
Q. Strong start today; a little bit tenser the second set.  How did you work it through and get it done so quickly in the end?
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, the second set was a little bit tight.  It was really important to serve well in that game, 4-3.  I was facing two break points and it was really the key point.
And I think that from the time that I started to play more aggressive than I did before, the beginning of the second set, so it helped me actually, to face the two break points to get back on the track and play little bit better and to return better as well.
But, I mean, overall it was a good match.  I think it was -- the serve was really good today; helped me a lot as well.  I'm happy that I'm in the semifinal for sure.
Q. You played so well in the first set.  Curious, when you're in one of those zones, how conscious are you of it as it's happening?  Is it something you try not to think about during the match?
PETRA KVITOVA: I'm not really thinking about that.  I mean, I'm there and just focusing on the next point.  I think in the tennis it's very tricky when you sometimes looking back, which is not great.
Even you win the point or you lose the point, but you still have to be in the time right now and not really thinking about the future as well.
I mean, if I am playing well I'm not saying to myself, Okay, I'm in the zone.  It's very good.  If I say that probably I would lose my concentration.  (Laughing.)
It's a little bit tricky, I have to say.  I just need to still be continuing the work I did.
Of course sometimes in the match you have the time when you're not feeling great, when you're a little bit down, low with the energy - or on the other hand, when you're playing really great and have winner by winner - and you still have to be kind of still going and try to not really thinking about what happened.
Q. It's going to be a marathon from here on out:  your match today, semi tomorrow, and the final on Sunday.  How fresh do you feel now and how ready do you feel having the three matches over the next couple days?
PETRA KVITOVA: I think that we are used to from the tournaments.  I mean, nothing really like new.  I had a day off yesterday, which I think helped me, my body as well, to recover a little bit.
Yeah, I mean, semifinal and final is always kind of challenging as well.  You just going to put everything what you have in that moment.
I just don't really think that it's like kind of problems.  Of course not everyone has the same conditions, but, I mean, it's okay.
Everybody has to handle it somehow, and I going to do the same.
Q. China is lucky place for you.  This is your first time in Zhuhai.  How do you feel atmosphere is out there?  How do you rate this tournament and the city?
PETRA KVITOVA: I'm surprised actually.  It's very nice city.  It's great even as well.  I mean, I really like it.
I didn't expect that many people today during the day, but it's came many of them and it was great atmosphere out there.
So it was really nice to play in front of them.
Q. (Through translation.)  One question:  who do you think would be your strongest opponent for the rest of the week?
PETRA KVITOVA: Tricky question.  I don't know who's going to advance into the semifinal so far.  I have no idea.  I think all four who can to advance to the semifinal will be tough anyway, because they play great in the group and win the two matches.
So I don't think it's any like have a good choice to play someone semifinal.  I'm not really see anyone.  All of them.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT