HUAJIN SECURITIES WTA ELITE TROPHY ZHUHAI
November 2, 2016
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








P. KVITOVA/R. Vinci
6-1, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. (Through translation.)  First of, all congratulations.  We learned that you only spent like 20 minutes practicing after you arrived in Zhuhai.  How did you manage to have such a great performance after such a short time of practicing?
PETRA KVITOVA: I didn't practice only 20 minutes.  I mean, I practice few times for sure, but not really hard, I have to say.  I mean, end of the season and I need to save some energy, which I think was great for tonight.
I'm pleased how I played today for sure.  Was a great first match which I played on center court.  Robby is always very challenging player.  She is playing a little bit different than other players.
So for me, I was really focusing on every shots and didn't really know what it's coming, so I had to be focused.
Q. So you've got Bara in your group and you said in the draw ceremony it was funny because you're both Fed Cup teammates.  A lot of people asked about what it's like to play a friend.  Perhaps a different thing to play a teammate.  You're playing tennis and practicing so closely together.  What do you make of that experience and what you'll bring into the next match?
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, it's not the first time for me playing teammates or friend.  It's never really easy.  We spend time here as well on the players' party and we already knew we were in the same group and we were still behaving normally as we did before.
That's what I really like.  Off the court it's everything possible.  You step on the court and you're focusing on your game and not really the opponents.  The emotions are a little bit different.  Probably you are just keeping more inside of you.
Of course when it's like big fight and really important points it's just going for it and just do what you can.  Same with the other opponent.
So that's what I going to try day after tomorrow.  Yeah, and then next week we are in the team, and I hope that everything will be fine.  Even I loss or she loss or whatever happen, I hope that off the court we going to be good again.  (Smiling.)
My answers are pretty long, so should shorten it.
Q. You played so well the last few months.  I know everyone is looking forward to the off-season, but is there a little bit of disappointment that after this week or Fed Cup you have to stop?
PETRA KVITOVA: A little bit, yes, I have to say.
On the other hand, I think it's a good finish of the season - better than the first half, so I take it as well.  I always like to see the things more positive than the negative, so everything has both sides.
I'm glad that the game is there again.  I do feel better on the court.  I'm more confident.  I'm going more aggressive than I did before in the first half of the season.
So, yeah, I mean, of course I wish that the season is still a little bit continue.  That's why I'm really glad I was able to qualify here and play.  I mean, coming to Asia swing playing Tokyo, Wuhan, and Beijing was kind of the goal to qualify here.  Even I had a chance to qualify to Singapore which was very small.
I'm really glad that I made it to play here and still have a chance to have more matches.  Still we have Fed Cup next week, so that's good to play few matches here coming to Fed Cup.
Hopefully we going to finish the season on the highest stage.
Q. I remember in New York you were saying you didn't want to overexert yourself by going too much around the city.  You'd stay between the hotel and the site.  Are you doing the same here in Zhuhai, and were you doing that throughout the Asian swing?
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, when I played in New York, in the day off I didn't go on site and I was just staying in the hotel and have a little bit of walk or just a little bit of work in the fitness.
So I didn't really hit every day.  I was saving energy, which I think is sometimes more important for me than just to play.  I'm kind of the player that doesn't have to play every day and still can't forget the forehand and backhand.
In the Asia swing was a little bit different because I played all those matches and I didn't really have a day off between the matches and the tournament.
Here I'm probably saving the energy for sure.  I think it's end of the season and everybody is just a little tired.  Everybody has small injuries and the body is not just working that well as in the beginning of the season.
So I'm just doing what I have to, spending the time by the physios and just resting.  But I hit few times for sure, otherwise I can't get the conditions here.  Yeah, I'm just doing it by the feel probably, how I feel.  If I need to practice, I go.  If I don't really, then I just stay.
I think I'm good in that, if I can say.  I'm trying to improve it as well and feel my body more that I used to before.
Q. We notice the beautiful rings on both hands.  Also we know when the ring appears in this finger always means something.  Any special meaning for the rings?
PETRA KVITOVA: Nothing new.  Sorry.  It's just the ring.  Nothing really surprise.
Q. When you were growing up you were watching a lot of players break through at 18, 19, and 20.  Now this generation is watching players like Angelique and Li Na ans Schiavone all win slams at 28, 29, 30.  I'm curious, if you had been looking up to those sorts of players how that might have changed your mentality.  I know you are one that believed in the process and the rhythm of things and just coming into your own in your own time.  I'm also curious if the next generation, if that may be impacted in any way seeing players break through at a later time in their careers?
PETRA KVITOVA: To be honest, I didn't really watch tennis in the TV that much.  I didn't really like it.  I was preferring to play than to watch.  But of course when I was starting be as a pro and trying to kind of play better and making some improvements for ITF and WTA, I watch some players like Kim.  She was kind of really playing a while.  I like her as a person as well on the court and off the court.
So it was one of them.  I am not sure.  I mean, of course that everybody is watching higher.  Like for us Serena maybe was the biggest probably person on our tour.  Yeah, of course that everyone who's in the top are as idols for the next generation.
I am not sure.  I mean, like I do feel that the women's tennis is very open right now.  It's just about the form, the mentality.  I think everyone knows forehand and backhand.  It's about the key points and important break points and game points to save be really ready in the mind.
I do feel that the game, to be like good or great, is going for the shots and play aggressive.  But I see Angie, how she is great mover.  But even she has a chance she just going for it.
I just still do feel that the aggressive kind of part of the game, it's very important to get better and better.  Of course the movement, be fitter and fitter is no doubt very important as well.  She is showing everything in the game.  She's very consistent as well.  That's probably why she is that great right now.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT