CHINA OPEN
October 4, 2016
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








P. KVITOVA/Wang Yafan
6-4, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Later today the verdict is due on Sharapova's ban.  Do you think it would be positive for the tour if she comes back?
PETRA KVITOVA: Who knows?  I mean, we just have to wait what's happen.  I think it's pretty early to say anything about.
The tour is missing Maria, I think.
Q. On the match today, did it feel any different playing out there on this court as opposed to what you did in Wuhan?
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, I do feel a little bit different.  I practiced yesterday and I did feel that the balls are a little bit heavier, so they are not flying probably as much as in Wuhan.  That I think is the biggest difference compared.
Of course, the conditions are a little bit different today.  It's pretty cold, as well.  Even in center court when the roof was on, I was getting a little sweat, but I feel just a little bit the cold air.  But, of course, it was great to play on that center court under the roof.
Q. Are you just going to bring a roof to all the tournaments from now on?
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, I would love to have them.  Yeah, yeah, I would, but...
Q. You were pretty tired after the final in Wuhan because the week was tough.  How is it coming back here, having to practice and play again?  How did your trick your brain mentally to find the motivation?
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, that's right, I was pretty tired.  I had two days off, which I think helped me.  For sure, was a good win today.  We'll see how everything is going, like, in the next days.
But I think I still do have motivation.  I think it was a great week in Wuhan.  I think that gave me more motivation and confidence, which I really needed before.  I'm not really struggling with no motivation here.
Q. You played Garbine next, which is a big step up in quality there.  Can you talk about her as an opponent and what you need to do in that match.
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, for sure will be great match.  I think it will be great battle again.  I know how we fight in Stuttgart.  It was a great match over there.
I know how dangerous she is.  I mean, she's really playing aggressive from both sides and she's serving real well and returning as well.  That's why I think I really need to be ready from the first shot which I'm playing.
Yeah, I know that she's going really for it.  That's what I have to try again.
Q. You're both very offensive, aggressive players.  How are you different, though, in your styles?
PETRA KVITOVA: I don't think that we are, like, different.  I think that we are really similar, except I'm lefty.  So that's probably the biggest difference.  But I'm not really seeing any other of them.  I'm trying to play aggressive from both sides, too.  That's very similar.
Q. Have you thought already of your new coach, new potential coach?
PETRA KVITOVA: No, actually.  I'm still in Asia, so I don't really have time to think about my coach right now, which is good sign, because I'm playing.  That's nice.
But when I finish here, I'm going home, I need to really think about.
Q. About the WTA Final, you're only 400 points close to the No. 8 player.  How do you feel about that?
PETRA KVITOVA: Before you told me, I didn't know.  So I don't know how I feel about.  I'm not really thinking about it.  I mean, coming to Wuhan, I didn't really have any, like, feeling that I can qualify.  I just played match after match.  That's what I going to try here, as well.
I'm not really counting the points.  Who will qualify, it's always the best in the season.  I didn't really have a great season.  So for me I'm just here to play the match.  That's what matter right now.
Q. Is it blisters you have on your fingers?
PETRA KVITOVA: My nails are getting broke.  I don't know.  It's bad polish, probably.  Gel (laughter).  Never do gel again.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT