WUHAN OPEN
September 28, 2016
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








P. KVITOVA/A. Kerber
6-7, 7-5, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. At the end of today's match, you had some problems with your leg.  Is that serious?
PETRA KVITOVA: If I have a problem with my leg?
Well, I think I had a problem with everything on my body right now.  Yeah, my body, it's just really tired I think.  I had a cramps almost everywhere.  But hopefully it will be fine.  I should play tomorrow again, so I hope that I will recover kind of fast.  I will do what is possible to recover for tomorrow.
Q. How do you feel now after beating the world No. 1 player?
PETRA KVITOVA: I do feel great.  I won after play a long time.  I feel happy.  But as well I feel tired, and the tournament is still going, so I don't feel that satisfied.  I think it was a great match from both of us.
I really gave everything today.  I think same as her.  I think it was really about the few points.  It was a great battle.  So hopefully the fans enjoyed it as well.  I did, for sure.  I will feel it tomorrow definitely.
But, yeah, it's great to beat the world No. 1.  Angie has a great success the last couple of months.  She's really playing well.
Q. During the match you had many deuce points.  What enabled you to win those decisive points?
PETRA KVITOVA: I don't know.  I mean, it was really difficult time, the last game, when I was 40-Love up.  I had the same situation in Olympics when I played Makarova.  I had the same matchpoints as well.  I had to play another game.  I didn't really want to do it again today.  I didn't really feel the best.
But, I mean, I was just really focusing on the next point.  I mean, of course, the fans were great today and support us a lot.  That's very nice of them, as well.
Sorry, I'm a little bit tired.
Yeah, so I was really fighting.
Q. The level of play you reached today, did you think before this tournament you would be able to find it back at the end of the season?  It seems like months since we've seen you play that well for three full sets.
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I didn't really know what I should expect from myself before the tournament.  I mean, I played in Tokyo.  I think I played well there, even I lost against Monica.  But it was pretty good.
From Montreal, I just do feel better on the court.  I just really trying to find myself.  I really enjoying the game actually.  Even I was playing the second set, I was like, Okay, I like it.  It's a good battle so far.
I mean, I had chances the first set, for sure.  I think I should make the first one.  But, anyway, I mean, that's a great match, for sure.  I don't know how I going to feel tomorrow.  But this match probably showed me a lot about how good I can play again and how I do feel inside and how I can still be strong mentally.  I think it's a very good signs.
Q. Angie keeps making you hit one more shot.  At one point there was a 41-shot rally.
PETRA KVITOVA: But I lost it.
Q. With the backhand smash.
PETRA KVITOVA: But I couldn't move.
Q. You were moving for 41 shots.
PETRA KVITOVA: I did.  They were applauding during the rally.  It was funny actually.
Q. How pleasing is it to know you have this in you, that you can stay in these long rallies?
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, it was only one.  I think we played a lot of rallies.  I'm glad that I was able to physically make it.  I think it's just mental side, as well.  I mean, going to play Angie, like Caro and Aga, they always put on you one more shot.  It's not really easy.
And even Angie is playing fast back, so you have to be careful on your feet like pretty good.  Yeah, that rally, I know, I smashed it.  My fitness coach wasn't happy about the rally because I lost it.
But, yeah, I think it's great to know it, for sure, that physically I'm able to kind of play these kind of rallies.  Of course, it's probably not every day.  But if I meet kind of some of these players, I think that I have it, so that's good to know.
Q. Yesterday you said you were going to try to put out of your mind any thought of the rankings.  I felt you succeeded on that one.
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, probably.  But I didn't really think about the ranking.  I mean, when you're playing, you just don't really care about the rankings.  But, of course, it's nice to beat world No. 1.
It's just a match.  I didn't really think about the ranking.
Q. You and Angie brought out the best game in each other.  Could you tell us specifically what attributes in Angie's game make her the best player in the world right now.
PETRA KVITOVA: Probably you saw it today.  I think that she really make the player to play few more shots, even if it's looking that it's done, the rally.  But she can still catch it.  She's really moving well.  That's what she's really doing.  And returning as well.  Even you serve well, you still have to play the more rallies.
I think that the physical part of her, it's pretty good.
Q. Was there a moment today when you realized that you had it, the game you expect of yourself, that it was with you today on the court?
PETRA KVITOVA: After match point probably (smiling).
Q. You didn't think it before, 41-shot rally, all those backhands, you didn't think you were playing the tennis you expect of yourself?
PETRA KVITOVA: For sure not in the first set because sadly I lost it.  The second set, I mean, I start pretty well the second set, which I was really happy with that.  Even I lost the first one in the tiebreak, it's kind of difficult mentally to go there and play from the beginning again.  I felt good that I started pretty well the second set.
Then in the third maybe when I had the break, the first game of the third set, I was just trying, you know, thinking more positive probably that I really do have it.  I really had to, you know, fight hard, especially the game 4-3 in the third.  It was really tough game, and the last one as well.
Even I had like 40-Love, it wasn't really finished.  Probably after the match I, like, realized that it was a good one.
Q. Did you feel it was a bigger win for you mentally or physically?
PETRA KVITOVA: I can't really pick one.  I think it's always connection.  I mean, if you feel physically well, the mental side, it's working as well, even you physically down maybe.
For me it's probably more mental today.  Because probably without my mind I will not move that well as I did today.  I think with the rallies and my movement today was really good.
I think the mental side is the main part.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT