DONGFENG MOTOR WUHAN OPEN
September 27, 2016
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








P. KVITOVA/E. Svitolina
6-3, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You had a very easy win.  How do you view your performance?  Do you have any expectations for the following matches?
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, I think that I didn't really start well, the match.  I think that I was kind of tight.  I was down 3-1, and then I was winning five games in a row.
It was, like, really important for me to get a little bit better on my feet, making the plays, and good timing on the court.
And from that time I really started to feel well.  Especially in the second set when I had a break up, I was still able to kind of serve well, just to hold my serve, which was really important in the match.
About the expectation, I have nothing really till the next rounds.  I think I can play without the pressure and just enjoy my game, which I'm doing right now as well.
I think the last two matches which I played was good from my side and I just would like to continue in that.
Q. Talk about the possibility of facing Angelique.
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, I can, of course.
You know, our last couple of matches which we played, I lost.  It's been difficult kind of matches for me.  But I think especially in the ^  US Open I didn't play that well and I still had kind of the chances to take few games more from her.  That's what I think that I wanted to do here, as well.  I feel well here.  The game, it's on a good kind of line to play.
I mean, it's always nice to ply Angie.  Of course, will be for the first time, if she win, that I will play her as a No. 1, which is a little bit different.  But I think if I'm on the court, I don't really think about that.
Q. What do you think she did well against you last time?  Is she doing anything different?
PETRA KVITOVA: I don't know actually, to be honest.  I think I had so many unforced errors.  I think that's what was kind of the main thing, especially the second set, I really had good chances.
I think she can take the ball in the right direction to just put it somewhere.  That's the thing, I think that she can wait till the good point when she can hit it stronger.
So I think that will be important to not really give her the time to do that.
Q. What do you make of the conditions?  Does it seem fast, slow, neutral?
PETRA KVITOVA: I found a little bit fast the court today, actually, which I like.  The conditions was very, very warm today.  The heat rule was on actually.  They told us after the first set.
I mean, that's why it's the Chinese Open, right, of Wuhan.  You know, that's really good connections.  I mean, that's pretty warm, but it's same for both of us.  Luckily I was okay.
Q. With Angie, I've never played her, but you have, what is the most underrated thing about her game, do you think?
PETRA KVITOVA: I think that she is very, very solid.  I think that almost everything she's just pushing back, so she can catch a lot of lot of balls.  She's a very good mover.
I think it's not just like pushing back, but she can really find a good direction to put it.  If she doesn't know, she just put it to the middle or to the cross-court.  It's pretty good land, so you can't really do anything that much.  I think she's very physically good prepared, as well, so she can play forever almost.
This I think what she is doing.  I think that her second serve is probably the weakness of the game.  She can return well, as well, yeah.
Q. You were talking a lot in New York about taking days off, not necessarily coming to the site all the time, practicing all the time.  Is that just a slam thing or are you applying at tour tournaments as well?
PETRA KVITOVA: I think I going to do that tomorrow if I not playing.  It's end of the season, and I just feel every part of my body.  Not like injury, but I do feel.  If I'm not playing tomorrow, I think I have a day off.  No hitting, no site tomorrow, no media things, please (laughter).
Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT