DONGFENG MOTOR WUHAN OPEN
September 26, 2016
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








P. KVITOVA/J. Ostapenko
6-1, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. During your match, a ball boy was uncomfortable.  Do you think it influenced your performance?
PETRA KVITOVA: I don't think so.  I mean, that's happened sometimes, unfortunately.  It's about the health that is most important.  I don't think, like, anything happened to my performance afterwards.
I think I lost the game.  But still, I mean, I was leading 30-Love.  It was on my side.  But I don't think it's anything because of the ball boy.  I hope he's better.
Q. In Wuhan, before you posted your picture with Li Na.  This time in Wuhan, will you see Li Na?
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, I posted a picture with Li Na because I saw her everywhere, but I didn't see her live, which is sad.  But I will see her in Beijing.  So I'm really looking forward and I hope she is good.
Q. For this year's event, we all know you are working for the Singapore final.  What are your expectations for Singapore and do you know your ranking now?
PETRA KVITOVA: For certain time I'm not really following ranking this time.  I was always fighting in the end of the season, especially here in Asia, to qualify for Singapore.  But I think it's almost impossible.  I'm not really looking specific to the ranking to qualify.
I think small chance is still there, but I just don't really think about it right now.  I'm just here to play.  I know it's the end of the season.  Everybody is tired.  Maybe a few injuries as well.  For me it's important to stay healthy and just play what I can.  Every match is a challenge for me right now.
So that's it.  I'm not really thinking about the rankings.
Q. I know you worked with Wim last week.  I was wondering how that went and if he's with you here.
PETRA KVITOVA: No, he's not with me here.  He been in Tokyo, which was our plan.  We will see how is everything will go.
Q. It was brutal weather today.  Three retirements today.  How do you deal with the conditions?  How do you prepare differently when you know it's like this?
PETRA KVITOVA: No different for me.  It doesn't matter, I think.  In the car to site my fitness coach told me it should be like 34 degrees and like 90% of humid as well.  I'm like, Okay, that's good to know (laughter).
I was a bit worry, but nothing really, like, happened on the court.  I was feeling okay.  I mean, I was just sweat a lot.  But I didn't feel like very hot or something.  I had ice, though, on the court.  It was pretty okay.
Q. She's a tough opponent.  She's been a difficult one for you in the past.  It seems like now you've flipped that head-to-head around.  Talk about that a little bit.  Have you made adjustments against her that you think have paid off?
PETRA KVITOVA: I think the first time I lost to her in Doha, which I wasn't playing well.  I didn't feel as well mentally.  My tennis wasn't really in the peak, which always kind of interrupting my confidence.  So it was just not great.  She had a great run there anyway, so...
Most painful match was on the grass in Birmingham, for sure, when I lost in the third when I had my chances.  I don't know, I just didn't take them.
I remembered when the draw came out in the US Open, I was really unhappy to see the first round.  But I was feeling better.  I felt better on the court, as well.  I played great matches before the US Open.  So that's was kind of calming me down a bit.
Really, the beginning of the match was just terrible.  Afterwards, I was just more relaxed and more confident.  I was just playing little bit better.
I think the key was kind of attacking her second serve, which I didn't really know how before.  So I just had to find the timing and everything, how was anything going.
I think from the time when I won, and when I beat her, now I'm a little bit more thinking more positively about playing her.
Q. Back to Wim.  Can you explain what was the process of deciding to try working with him.
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I think all you know I split with my coach after US Open.  I was looking for -- or I'm looking for a coach, which Wim, we had a deal to try it few days before Tokyo and in Tokyo.  I know that he's great coach, for sure.  We will see how everything will go.
Q. You mentioned in the beginning of the season you were not feeling too great in the Middle East.  How different is your head space now?  How much confidence did you get from the wins you had recently?
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, I was really waiting all season to get few wins, as I did starting in Montreal kind of.  I mean, there I was starting feeling better on the court.  My game was kind of coming back, which was very nice.  Especially the Rio, that was kind of peak of the season, for sure.
I think from that time I knew that kind of going there for the medal was big goal for me this season.  I think from the time I was feeling a little bit relaxed, and it's same up here.  Now I just really enjoying the tennis which I love to make these feelings.
Yeah, I mean, I didn't really have bad rounds last couple of weeks.  I lost my match against Puig in Tokyo.  I think I played well, but I just didn't take the important points.  Still, I mean, was a great match.
That's how I'm feeling right now.  So it's much better.
Q. You mentioned usually this time of the year you're fighting for Singapore.  Is it maybe a bit of a blessing in disguise that you don't have that pressure on you now and you're focused on trying to enjoy yourself and get some wins?
PETRA KVITOVA: I don't know.  Maybe sometimes I prefer to fight for Singapore.  But, I mean, now it's different situation.  I mean, after season, how everything went, I'm really glad where I am, that I still have a love of tennis, which is the most important.
I'm not really worried about the ranking right now.  I'm just glad I have the motivation, which I really do.  That's important.  I'm looking forward for the new season again.
Q. You had a few years with David where you had coaching stability in your life.  Since then you haven't had that.  Is that perhaps the priority for you right now, especially looking ahead to the new season, that you really want to find a coach to stay with?
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, for sure.  That's my big priority right now.  Is it the same question (laughter)?
Yeah, I mean, seven years with David was amazing time, for sure.  But we went to the time when we split.  I think both of us are looking for some player or coach who really suits us.
I really have to have a big think about the new coach, how everything will work, and about the future.  So, yeah, I would like really to have some good coach to going to the new season.  This year was really difficult.  But the experiences are here for us.  So I'm thinking positive still.
Q. The bronze medal, when you went back home and got to show it to your parents, what was the reaction?
PETRA KVITOVA: I think, like, most important for them was seeing me than the medal.  But, you know, there was a nephew and nieces.  It was just really nice.  They were, like, wearing it on the neck.  They were like, It's too heavy.  Auntie, it's too heavy.  It was really funny, like, with the kids.
My parents are, like, happy that I won it.  Of course, they saw it.  But it's just like a thing or something.  For them it's more important probably to see me.
But it was fun.  I mean, after long time, Montreal, after US Open, it was a lot of days.  They were happy to see me back there and stay with me.
Q. Do your nieces and nephews realize who you are?
PETRA KVITOVA: I don't think so.  I mean, for them I'm just auntie.  It's the best, I think, the thinking of the kids.  Sometimes, like, Yeah, I was watching you on the TV and you won, so that's good.  But then I came and they were like, Okay.
I bring them some presents.  They were like, I will not break it because it's from Olympics.  They were kind of, like, happy about the presents, but that's it.
Q. They have no idea that you're famous?
PETRA KVITOVA: I don't think so.  I mean, they are seven years old, five and two.  I think they are still very young.
Q. Have you been tempted to call back David and say, Let's try working together again?  When you have such a long and successful player-coach relationship, you want to try what worked in the past.
PETRA KVITOVA: So you're asking me if I'm thinking...
Q. ...to hire David again.
PETRA KVITOVA: To be honest, I'm not.  It was a great time.  I know he is great coach and everything.  I have nothing bad against him.  But I just think that we were to the time when we couldn't just go together anymore.
I wish him good luck.  I hope that he will find good player to work with, and that he will be happy at home also.  But, yeah, I'm looking for another coach, not David.
Q. At this point in your career, what are you looking for the most in a coach?
PETRA KVITOVA: I think I'm kind of different.  It's a little bit difficult.  Don't laugh (smiling).  It's a long press conference today.
I think that for me sometimes it's more important the personality of the coach than about the kind of can I say like quality of tennis.  I know he has to be good coach, for sure.  But (indiscernible) as a personality to me and my team as well.  It's a bit difficult, but hopefully I will find it.
Q. Do you prefer someone strict or more laid back?  What works with you?
PETRA KVITOVA: I think I'm not the person who loves pressure, kind of.  I just have to probably feel more comfortable and more relaxed.  I have the pressure on the court, which I'm fine with that.  It's enough.  It's kind of this feeling.
But it's more things.  It just has to be, like, everything together.  Yeah, it's a challenge as well.
Are we done?  Oh, good (laughter).






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT