U.S. OPEN
September 4, 2016
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. KERBER/P. Kvitova
6-3, 7-5
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You played well in the second set in particular.  Where do you think it turned?
PETRA KVITOVA: I didn't feel it, unfortunately.  I felt I played a little terrible, to be honest.  Especially the first set I think I couldn't really find the rhythm.
I don't think she really played good as well.  It wasn't really nice tennis probably.  I was trying.  I think my mind was really calm.  I was still trying to do something with that, which I think my game improved definitely in the second set.
I felt like that I really made the chances, but I just didn't take them unfortunately.  I'm sure maybe the match will look differently afterwards.
Q. Do you think the delay had anything to do with the slow start?
PETRA KVITOVA: I'm not sure.  I don't think so.  I mean, was the same for both of us.  We were prepared for 7:00, but it's always a bit delayed.  Sometimes that happen.
But I don't think really, nothing serious.
Q. After a bronze medal and then did well in New Haven, pretty well here, do you feel these are a few weeks you proved yourself, you can bring your best tennis on a consistent basis or are you more disappointed walking away?
PETRA KVITOVA: I think the last four tournaments since Wimbledon I really played good.  I think I improved a lot.  I just think the confidence hopefully is coming back, which is always important with me.
Yeah, I think I can still improve lot of things, especially the serve tonight, for example, or returns, whatever.
So, yeah, I think it's there.  I just need to find it somehow.  It's always hard work, but it's getting slowly there.  Hopefully it will be there soon.
Q. Before match point there was a guy who yelled, Double-fault.  Did you hear that?
PETRA KVITOVA: Before the match?
Q. Before your match point, a guy yelled out to you, Double-fault.
PETRA KVITOVA: No, I didn't hear that.  I just heard all of them.  (Laughter.)
Q. You've played Angie nine times now.  Is she better now than when you played her the first eight times?  The same?
PETRA KVITOVA: Tough to say.  I mean, from the time we started to play each other it's a long time already.  I think both of us improve the game.  So I still feel that we are on the same level, but of course we improve.
It just feel weird.  I don't know.  Definitely she's better mentally I think most of the time and she can really move well.  She's like pushing everything through the court.  It's always pressure on the opponent.
Which it's funny, but I didn't really feel that today.  I just really felt it was on my racquet but I just couldn't take it.  I missed so much.  I think for sure she improved and she's there where she is right now.
Q. It's been three and a half years that Serena Williams has held that No. 1 spot.  What would you think of Angie Kerber as the world No. 1?  Do you think she's deserving of that spot?
PETRA KVITOVA: You know, I don't care really.  Let me think.  (Laughter.)
I don't know.  I think Serena's been always champion.  She hold it for so, so, so long.  She totally deserve it.  She won a Grand Slam this year.  Maybe she's still in draw, she can win it here as well.
I think Angie has a great season, too.
I don't know, it's just fight between them two, but I think the ranking is always, you know, saying the true probably over the season.  I know Serena was injured and everything, but that's how it is.
Q. There are still a few big tournaments after the US Open.  Are you ready to travel to a new country completely different from here?
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah.  I'm ready every year to go to China.  It's the same this year.  I'm looking forward for sure.  I do play well there, so I'm looking forward to be there again.
Q. You're only coming to the site and playing matches, practicing minimally.  What is your game plan now going forward?  What is motivating you?  Do you want a break and go home?  Do you want to hit the gym?
PETRA KVITOVA: I want to sleep.  (Smiling.)  I think was really a difficult time.  I mean, I'm on the tour from Montreal.  I was in Rio, New Haven, here.  Was a lot of, lot of nerves.  Energy as well.
So for sure I will need some days off to recharge my energy, and then I can start again and be practicing for the China, which there are two big tournaments and still a lot of points to play about.
Yeah, I need a mental time off, too.  No racquet for a while.  Then I start again.  It's like a circle which never end.  It's the same.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT