U.S. OPEN
August 31, 2016
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








P. KVITOVA/C. Buyukakcay
7-6, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Tough first set, but you got through and did well in the tiebreaker; took care of business in the second.  Are you happy with the way you played and the way the match went?
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, for sure.  I'm happy how I handled the first set, especially when I was up and I couldn't really make it in on the first set.
So I was really focusing on the tiebreak.  I was down 2-Love, and it wasn't really easy for me to still keep going.  A few serves helped me, and I think whole tiebreak was pretty good job for me.
And the second set I know that she can still play, and she did at the end of the first set.  I was trying still to be focused.
I think the serve was a little bit better in the second set, but still I think my forehand helped me a lot today.  I was just waiting for the chance to break her then.
Q. Can you talk about your coming in this year after the success of last year?  Can you take some momentum with that and kind of what are the expectations here this year?
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, I mean, I think I have a good experience from last year from the center court, which I was today, as well.  So it was nice to be back there.
And the expectations, I know how difficult the season is for me this year.  To be honest, I'm not really have any expectation to here.  I played good in Rio and in New Haven, so I'm happy that I can still show it here.
But every match it's, you know, difficult and really tough to see what I'm going to be.  If I can make the second week, I would be very happy.
Q. You were under the weather a little bit in New Haven.  How are you feeling here?  There is a lot of air conditioning here.  Probably doesn't help.
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, I got sick in Rio when I was staying there for a few days.  I was still sick in New Haven, which is wasn't really nice, but I was happy I was playing during the night most of the time.
So it helped me a bit; tough to breathe.  I still have a little bit cold, but it's getting better.  Air conditioning never really helps, of course.  But it's the U.S.; always getting sick here.
So, for me, just normal routine (Smiling.)
Q. What were the conditions like in the stadium with the new roof?  It wasn't closed, but was it any different than last year?
PETRA KVITOVA: I didn't feel any difference, to be honest.  The shades was there same as last year, so I knew what I should expected.
The shade is a little bit, you know, dangerous for both of us, but it's getting used to after few games.  You just know that it's there and you are not really thinking about.
And I didn't really feel the roof, unfortunately.  Of course when it's on it will much better for me.  I love to play indoor, but no rain, so we will see how it's going.
It feels great to be there definitely.  It's a great court and the atmosphere is always nice.  Especially in the night, of course.
But today I felt many people came during the match, so it was great.
Q. You were saying, joking on court that you never know when you're going to play well, same as anybody else.  Was that a joke or is that really true?
PETRA KVITOVA: It's true, unfortunately.  (Smiling.)  Yeah, I mean, for me it's difficult.  I think I'm kind of person who always, you know, stressing how I gonna play.  I know that I'm playing well or I'm in a good wave, but every time you step back on the court something can happen.  Especially to me, I think.
And so far it's okay, but I was struggling in the beginning of this season.  I think that I kind of unfortunately bring something with me and to my mental side and everything.
But last couple of three weeks -- I even play well in Montreal.  So I think it's getting better and I'm getting to the good rhythm.
But still, I have to be still, you know, worry how everything gonna be.  I have to just focus on the thing which come, which is next round.
Yeah, I will be very happy to say one day, Okay, I'm going to play well tomorrow, but I don't think it will come.  (Smiling.)
Q. We were talking Roberta.  She comes in seventh seed; wasn't even seeded last year.  You come in here in a great seed position.  Just coming off of successful campaign your last year, how different is it to in terms of expectations maybe being higher?  Talk about the difference.
PETRA KVITOVA: Who are we talking about?
Q. Roberta Vinci.
PETRA KVITOVA: Oh, yeah, Robby.
Yeah, it's difficult, but she's handled it well.  I saw that she won today.  I know how difficult it is when you're somewhere and suddenly you're top 10 and playing a final of a Grand Slam, which she did last year and she beat Serena, which was big, big, win for her.
I think that she has a lot of experience already, so I think that it's good for her that she's playing still well and she love it here.
I was struggling a bit when I won the first Grand Slam for the two, three years.  It was difficult time for me, but finally probably I know how to handle it somehow.
But it's about experiences and everything which is coming with that.
Q. You were talking about kind of an up-and-down season, but the last few tournaments you played well and.  Can you also say you don't know how you will play in two days?  Is there anything you can identify from Montreal, Rio, Connecticut to here that you think is going particularly well that maybe is the spark as to why you're playing a more consistent level over the last month and a half?
PETRA KVITOVA: I think that I didn't play badly before.  I just didn't really have anything to click together.
It was match with Makarova in Wimbledon, for example.  It was so close and it was my mistakes that I lost.  I just didn't really put easy balls to the court.
That's the thing that's help me, kind of that I was working on it.  I was trying to serve and playing the aggressive game again, which when you didn't have a confidence you are just worried to play because you just didn't want to miss it.
I think I changed in my mind that I'm going more forward and playing more aggressive.  I know that otherwise I don't really have a chance, so I really had to change it again and be more confident in that.
That's what I'm doing probably.  Of course sometimes you are not feeling 100% and it's difficult to really play Svetlana, for example, or Aga in New Haven.
So I think that's improved.  I think my fitness improve, too.  I'm just, you know, trying to really going forward and playing more down the lines, which was always my game but I didn't really play before.
So I think there is a few small things which I think it's getting better.
Q. Do you have any New York traditions?
PETRA KVITOVA: I do.  I didn't practice yesterday.  I had a day off, so I didn't come on-site.  So that's a new tradition I think from last year.
Q. So only match days?
PETRA KVITOVA: Only match days.
Q. So you avoid the traffic and the hecticness of getting to site?
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah.
Q. You're more calm?
PETRA KVITOVA: For me it's really exhausted to still be in the car and it's a lot of people here.  You just practice like 45 minutes.  I didn't need anymore anyway.
When I feeling okay in the match court it's fine, and I don't really need the practice like that.  I played good in New Haven as well, so I do have matches, and I don't really have practice.
So, yeah, that's my new tradition.  And some coffees, as well.  Some shopping.  And so that's really enjoying time for me.  I'm starting to love New York.
Q. So then in your off day when you're staying back in Manhattan, what is Petra Kvitova doing?
PETRA KVITOVA: Almost nothing.  Well, I do have a fitness, of course.  I have to do something otherwise it's bad.
And then I did a shopping yesterday a little bit.  I had a coffee with Katie.  I'm just trying to rest and sleep.  I'm not sleeping the best during the night, so I just need more energy.
It was difficult for weeks for me so far from Rio, so I know that my body needs more time to relax, as well.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT