CONNECTICUT OPEN
August 26, 2016
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. RADWANSKA/P. Kvitova
6-1, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You've had a great run here.  How disappointed are you?
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, it's a long time I'm sitting here as the defeated player, right?  It's not the best, but I think that I played good tournament here.  I was in semifinal.  After a tough season for me so far, it's always great result to play good tennis.
Really, like, glad how I played here, even today.  I got everything put back.  I was just running out with my steam.  It's been a tough three weeks for me with Rio and week off between Rio and here.  So I'm really glad that I played good.
I have to be focused on US Open.
Q. What was the biggest difference between today's match and the match in Rio?
PETRA KVITOVA: I didn't play her in Rio.
Q. Well, that would be a difference (laughter).
PETRA KVITOVA: Right.
Q. You seemed to be playing hard today, but she just tracked everything down, didn't she?
PETRA KVITOVA: It's difficult.  It's difficult.  I wasn't really feeling my best.  Tired from last couple of days.  I didn't think I really put all my, like, power to the balls because I wasn't really there with my legs.  It was really tough to hit it really hard.
Even with Aga, she's not playing very hard, but she's using your speed, she's putting everything in.  Even you feel it's winner there, she still can catch it and rallies continue.
When I didn't have the legs prepared, I couldn't really reach the net and play maybe more volleys or something like that.  It was really difficult and I was really struggling.  With the serve, as well, I didn't put too many percentage of the first one.
Every game we played, rallies, of course she was better in the rallies today.
Q. Is she playing like a champion?  Tomorrow do you see her coming away with the title?
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, if she's playing like today, definitely I think that she will win.
Q. How much different is it when she's putting the first serves in?
PETRA KVITOVA: You know, I think that I feel that I can return the first serve a little bit better than the second because I feel that the second, it's for me very slow.  I don't know what I should do with that.
I don't know, it's just weird.  I mean, she's putting everything in, even I think that she's trying to put more percentage of the first serve.  It's really helpful.  She's really good with the placement.  It's not really, like, fast, but the placement is very good, which sometimes is more difficult than the speed.
Too tired to talk (smiling).
Q. How are you feeling?
PETRA KVITOVA: I'm still sick.  I don't know how long it's going to take.  I'm playing Monday on US Open.  I hope I will be better at that time.
Q. Do you still like it here?
PETRA KVITOVA: I still like Anne, yes.  It's about Anne and New Haven (laughter).
Yeah, I still like, of course, playing here.  Nothing really change definitely today.  I'm glad I didn't get a bagel actually, as well.  That was very positive (smiling).  If it's possible, I would love to come next year again.
Q. You're playing Monday.  Do you think you'll be hopefully better by then in terms of more rested, the sickness?
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, I wish I play Tuesday, but that's how it is.  I have to take it like that.  I know on the other side I have a day off tomorrow and Sunday which is maybe good for me.  So I have to still find a positive way of the losing today.  So I hope it will be better.
I think the cold, it's a little bit better, but it's not great still.  Who knows.  We will see.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT