OLYMPIC GAMES RIO 2016: TENNIS
August 13, 2016
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







P. KVITOVA/M. Keys
  7‑5, 2‑6, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

Q. You seemed quite emotional afterwards. How proud and satisfied are you that you're going to take a medal home?
PETRA KVITOVA: I'm still a bit emotional, so if I cry, sorry. 
It means almost everything, definitely. Having medal from the Olympics is one of the best things that happen in my career definitely, along with the two Wimbledon titles and winning Fed Cups and WTA. 
It's definitely one of the best days today, so... I hope I going to celebrate it. I'm very proud that I could bring it to the Czech Republic. 

Q. You just mentioned the two Wimbledon titles. Where would you actually place winning an Olympic medal? Directly alongside them? If you had to rate it, how would you do it?
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, unfortunately I didn't win the gold one. But to have a bronze, it's great. 
It's different. I can't really compare it, like, to have it next to each other with the two Wimbledon titles. If I have a gold one, it would definitely be there. 
It's something different. I can't really compare it with the Fed Cup even. It's something special. I think I have everything in one line. 

Q. How had you been feeling about how your year was going before you got to Rio and how has this performance this week changed that?
PETRA KVITOVA: You know, the feelings was really nice. I think I was preparing for Olympics from the beginning of the season. I had so many troubles with injuries, with the health and everything. I couldn't really find the best tennis in me. 
I know I love playing these kind of tournaments and matches as this week. Playing for Czech Republic is always something special for me. I just came here to do what I can. 
The first match I played, it was pretty solid. I felt really goosebumps before my match. I felt it was there, which I was very happy for that. 
I think the match against Makarova was one of the toughest ones definitely here. After that I was feeling a bit confident, played well. I'm so happy that I saved my best tennis for this event. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT