ROGERS CUP
July 28, 2016
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. KUZNETSOVA/P. Kvitova
7-6, 6-3
An interview with:
PETRA KVITOVA
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How do you think you played today, result notwithstanding?
PETRA KVITOVA: I think was great battle definitely.  I'm happy the way I played today.  It was a big fight till the end.  I think I was still supposed to win the first set definitely.  I had a break.  Still had chances to, you know, kind of take it.
But I get a little bit tired during the first set.  It was difficult, of course, physically with Sveta to still keep the level.
I think she didn't really miss that much as I wish she does.  But I just think that I did play well and I think it is a good sign.
Q. Was your preparation for the hard court season after Wimbledon any different this year because of the Olympics, calendar shift, new coach?
PETRA KVITOVA: I don't think so.  I mean, we are still preparing for the upcoming weeks.  Of course, with Olympics it's little bit different.  But still I think we need to be prepared for every week.  Putting the Olympics, just making one or two weeks longer the trip here.
But I think the practices were normal and nothing really special new.
Q. Are you planning to play Cincinnati and New Haven after the Olympics?
PETRA KVITOVA: Yes, I do, yeah.  Still in the plan.
Q. Are you excited to go to Rio?  What are your thoughts on the Olympics?
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, I do.  I'm very excited.  I think from the beginning of the season I'm thinking about it.  I'm really looking forward.  It's something different for us, you know, staying in the village, seeing the other athletes.  Of course, the Olympics in Czech Republic is very popular and very likable.  Is always honor play by our country.  So I'm really excited to go there.
Q. Do you know who you're rooming with yet?
PETRA KVITOVA: With Lucie Hradecka.
Q. How much of the preparation for the Olympics has taken up your time?  The kit...  Is that all done for you and you fly down there and you're good?
PETRA KVITOVA: Yes, I think everything is fine already.  I do have a kit.  When I was home, I was picking up it.  I do have a flight.  I tried to change it to fly a little bit early, but everything is just full.  We're going on Monday.
Yeah, that's it probably.
Q. There are quite a few like that who are going to go to Rio, but you've already lost at this tournament.  Do you hang around here until your flight rolls around?  What is the plan?
PETRA KVITOVA: I think maybe one day, but then I need to practice again and playing some points with the other girls who are staying here.  So I don't think for the three days I just will do nothing.  So I need to be prepared.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT