U.S. OPEN
September 2, 2016
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
P. KVITOVA/E. Svitolina   
6-3, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  You haven't lost a set through the first week.  
PETRA KVITOVA: That's true.  What a surprise, right?  (Laughter.)   
 Q.  Are you surprised?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Petra with a three, it's not working so far, which is good.  I'm saving some energy.   
I think it's doesn't matter.  The important is the win.  Of course, with saving energy it's always better.   
I didn't feel the hot today outside that was before, so it was really good.   
 Q.  Have you noticed that, that it hasn't been as hot in New York this times as it has in years past?  
PETRA KVITOVA: The first day when I played on Monday, that was kind of difficult.  But I played the first match, so it was okay.  I was happy for that.   
Yeah, I think so far is okay.  I mean, the rain yesterday interrupt the game, unfortunately, but the roof was here.   
 Q.  What happened in the second set and how were you able to turn that around?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I think that she didn't feel probably the pressure.  She just came strong there.  I just feel that she was a little bit, you know, playing more aggressive than before.  I let her play her better game, I think, as well.  I didn't push her that much.   
I was lucky then 4-3 came the new balls and I could serve well the 4-All, which was really helping to my confidence as well.  So it was a little difficult at the end of the second set.  It was a big fight, the last game.   
Tough to say.  Sometimes when the player's down they just a little bit more relaxed and didn't really have anything to lose.  They just went, you know, more and better played.   
 Q.  Is it confidence-building for you to know that you were able to right the ship quickly?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, it was helping.  Even when I was 4-Love up, then also tight, 4-4, and I was still able to serve well and play well after, which is always a good sign.  So I'm happy for that.   
 Q.  Aside from the heat, do you actually like this city and the tournament, the big crazy city, the traffic?  Are you a fan of this place?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I'm not really a fan of the traffic, but I starting to like it here last year when I played well and I made the quarterfinal.  You know, in the day off I'm not going on-site, so I'm kind of out of the traffic.  There's many people up here and everything.  I'm kind of saving the energy and everything, which I think is helping to my person as well, and mentally, too.   
But I feel that the crowd, it's always, you know, cheering.  I think finally I find the way how I should take the energy from them as well.   
 Q.  How different does it feel not to come to the site every other day?  
PETRA KVITOVA: You know, it's funny.  I think that not many people can imagine or do that.  It was funny.  We were joking today that we were going to the site for the fourth time and I played three matches.  I went here on Sunday, Monday, Wednesday, Friday, which is really funny, I feel.   
And last year I did the same.  I played five matches and I spend six days here.  I think not many people can do that.   
I'm okay.  I'm happy I'm not a person who has to practice every day.   
 Q.  Does it feel strange to not have that routine?  
PETRA KVITOVA: No.  I have my own routine, so I'm good.   
 Q.  Where do you practice off-site?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I'm not practicing.   
 Q.  You're just taking the day as it goes?  Do you do any training?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, we are not setting everything, like nothing with the time.  Whenever I wake up, go for breakfast.  We do always fitness like for 45 minutes or something.  So the body is still doing something, but not like anything with the racquet.   
 Q.  So you're playing every other day right now?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Yes.  Just a warmup and match.   
 Q.  What are you doing on your day off?  Are you exploring the city?  Staying at the hotel?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I'm start like trying to relax, to have a nap every day.  The sleep, it's always helping the body for everything.   
I do a little bit of the shopping every time, or just walking in the city and the fitness.  I feel that the day is flying so fast, so it's always the dinnertime.  Like, I didn't do anything.   
 Q.  If you sleep until 2:00 pm...  
PETRA KVITOVA: It's not.  I'm waking up at 8:00, 8:30, but after lunch I have a movie or something.   
 Q.  Do you have a favorite shop or a favorite stretch, like 5th Avenue?  
PETRA KVITOVA: No.  I didn't even go to 5th Avenue.  It's terrible.  I have to do it tomorrow.  (Laughter.)   
 Q.  You kind of have come through your career in different ways than most typical top players.  Not a lot of juniors.  You play a different style of game than most people.  You have the ability to take these breaks, like last year in the spring.  You're going to sites every other day.  
PETRA KVITOVA: I know I'm different.  (Smiling.)   
 Q.  This sport tends to be one where everybody does the same thing, what the other person is doing.  Is it easy for you to kind of march to the beat of your own drummer?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I think it's not really easy.  I think with the mature and everything, with the experiences, you just find the own way.  I don't feel the top players doing the same as the rest of the players.   
It's always about the personality, I think, and about what you can really find what is the best for you.  I'm still in the process like trying to find what is the best.  I think it's never-ending story to find it.   
Now I always know that I'm a little bit different with the practices, about tournaments, everything.  When I'm really tired mentally I always know it's impossible to play, so I have to be clear in my mind and enjoy the tennis.  That's the most important thing for me.   
Because when I don't have a passion and a fight in me it's always difficult.  It's just be there and it's nothing for me.  I love the sport, so I really need to have the feelings to having the battle.   
So I knew that.  I'm glad that my fitness coach know I'm different, too.  I think we are good combo, as well.  We always trying to find the best way, yeah.   
 Q.  When you were growing up, did you feel more pressure to conform to what other players were doing on the tour?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Not at all.  I was happy to have my coach, my father as my coach.  I do remember when I was like 14, 15, like same-age players played twice a day, practicing every day four hours.   
I was just going to the school, which was not really fun.  I hit like hour, hour and a half every day after the school in the afternoon.  And my father told me one day - I will remember forever - we are working on the techniques, and they have just more and more hours.   
I think he did a great job for sure.  I wasn't that tired as my same-age girls were afterwards.  They all retire after a while and went to school, and I was still continue.  I think that was a good move.   
 Q.  You said your team was understanding.  How did they react when you told them you didn't want to come but every other day?  
PETRA KVITOVA: They're really fine.  I think it's always about the player, and the player has to tell what is the best.  I think that's the important.   
I am not a rebel.  It's something what I have to say.  They should, of course, listen to me.  Not every time we have the same opinion on all things, but sometimes we need to find a compromise.   
But that's how it is.   
 Q.  Have you ever heard someone from the crowd scream something and then changed your tactic because they said?  Hit to her forehand, something like that?  
PETRA KVITOVA: No, not really.  Sometimes I hear like, Make an ace.  Not often it's happening or doing that afterwards, but sometimes it's funny to hear that.  But not really, no.   
 Q.  What kind of things have you heard?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Something like that, Make the ace.  The worst is just to listen, Four more balls, four more points and you get there.  It's something terrible, because we never can count.  Then 30-Love, Two more.  It's not great.  (Laughter.)   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT