CONNECTICUT OPEN
August 25, 2016
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
P. KVITOVA/E. Makarova   
6-3, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How is your cold?  Look like you're feeling pretty good.  
PETRA KVITOVA: Actually I do look, but I don't really feel that.  I've been quite tired or something.  I didn't really sleep well.  With the cold, it's always little bit difficult.   
I think that sometimes I can't really pay too much attention how I feel.  It's just going out there, just be strong mentally, think about the next point, think about the tennis.   
That's what I did today as well and all the tournament.  It pays to just be focused and think what you are just doing in the moment.   
 Q.  Are there some tournaments, some courts, that are just better for you than others?  You play so well here.  Going for your third straight.  
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, probably.  It's one of them here.  I love Centre Court of Wimbledon, as well.  I think these two courts are just perfect for me.   
It's always nice to coming somewhere when you feel, you know, at a home and you know you can play well.  It always give you little bit more confidence than normally.   
 Q.  You played Makarova a lot this year.  
PETRA KVITOVA: I think it's done for the season (laughter).   
 Q.  This seemed to be an easier match for you than some of your other matches against her.  Why do you think that was?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, for sure, you're right.  I don't know why.  Maybe the court helped me.  Maybe, I don't know, I was ready to battle again.  Just knew that I had to be really focusing on each point.   
I know how difficult it was in Rio.  But I think I played better here.  I served better, for sure.  I just think it was really, you know, helpful for me today.  Couple of the matches which we played before today was always a little bit tricky.  I think in each of them that I had chances to win it, but I didn't really take it.   
I think the most important was in Rio, which I took it.  I'm really happy that it happened.  Today I just played good match again.   
 Q.  Do you just take a deep breath when you come here and relax?  Your whole career, people will say, She's so inconsistent.  
PETRA KVITOVA: They should look at New Haven, right (smiling)?  That's a good answer to them.   
I don't know.  I always looking forward to be here.  I'm here.  I just feel so relaxed.  We always have our kind of restaurants and breakfast shop where we are going every morning, having just easy time.  It's easy to get here, like 10 minutes, not that much.   
I don't know.  I just feel everything, it's so easy.  Even the court.  Of course with a lot of success that I have here, it's better to play.   
I'm really enjoying the place.  I can't really say why.  I just see so many young people in the street, students.  We have great hotel.  Of course, Anne as the tournament director, she's great, she's very familiar.   
I don't know.  It's just something here that I really love.   
 Q.  Does the new facility make a difference to players?  Is it going to help the draw at this tournament?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I think so.  I can't say that it was bad before, it was just a little bit small.  I just think with the space they used, it seems a little bit bigger.  It's just comfy, many people can fit there.  It's just really nice.  The locker room are great, like very open.  We have a lot of space over there.   
It's really nice and I think helpful to everyone who is working here.   
 Q.  Similar to Makarova, you played Radwanska a lot, Flipkens not so many times.  Talk about what each one of those players might pose as a problem for you in a semifinal.  
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, with Aga, play many times.  I think last time in Indian Wells, which was a good match.  She's always a bit tricky.  She's not playing really with the power, but she's very smart with the good touch.  I think she can really read well the game.  I think only one player which they can beat her is just playing really fast and aggressive, which I have to do again, if I play her.   
And with Kirsten, not as many times as Aga, but I think she's a lucky loser here, right?  I think for these player, always given the second chance, it's kind of new blood.  She just took it.   
I think that she likes the fast surface, as well, that she can really serve and going for it.  I think she's playing a little bit like men's tennis with a kick and a slice from the backhand.  It's really unusual to see these kind of players on the women's side.   
 Q.  Do you ever play anything but aggressive, hard and fast?  Is that just what feels really comfortable for you?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, I mean, that's my game.  I never wait for the mistakes of the opponent.  Sometimes I know that I can maybe keep the ball little bit longer in the court and play more at ease.  But it's not my game.  I can do it like through the match sometimes, but I can't really win it this way.   
 Q.  You rely just on big shots that they're not going to be able to return?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, I think so.  It's always been me.  As I said I think yesterday, it's taking lot of risk as well with my game.  But that's how it is.  I just need to be prepared for the timing and for the shots.   
 Q.  Will you change your preparation at all because you're not feeling as well with your cold?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Be honest, I didn't really practice before coming here.  When I get called, I was a bit sick.  I felt my right leg.  I didn't really practice that much.   
But I think I'm lucky because I'm not a person who really needs to practice every day, like for four hours.  For me it's enough to maybe hold the racquet for hour, and that's enough.  That's what I did for two or three days before I coming here.   
I'm lucky this way.  Mainly when it's raining somewhere and you don't really have a chance to practice, that's always good for me or for my personality, that I'm not stressing about that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT