AEGON CLASSIC
June 16, 2016
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J. OSTAPENKO/P. Kvitova
6-4, 4-6, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions or Petra Kvitova, please.
Q. Didn't happen for you today.  You were up in the third, just couldn't make it happen?
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, I felt like that when she broke my serve -- before, when she lost her serve, I think she was kind of more dangerous afterwards.  I felt like she's going more for the points more.  She's playing more aggressive than she was before and I was just reacting.
Unfortunately, I think that she played better on the key points then in the third one.  I just felt that she return it very well in the third one.
It was difficult to still be there and putting the pressure on her.  She's was pushing me a lot.
Q. You're heavily strapped up.  Is that just because of the transition to grass?  You weren't moving particularly well today.
PETRA KVITOVA: I wasn't, that's right.  It was bothering me a lot today.
But probably is the grass, the beginning is always difficult for the body, for the butt, and for the hamstrings.  I think that was the case.
Yeah, I played the first match really well against Lucie, and I'm sad that I didn't really show it today again.
Q. You're heading obviously to Eastbourne.  Possibly better weather, but dealing with the wind as well.  What is the state of your confidence going down there?
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, definitely happy that I was able to play two matches here.  I hope that Eastbourne will be better.  But, of course, it's the wind there.  You never know the conditions.
But I'm looking forward.  Eastbourne is a beautiful city and beautiful venue.  I hope that the few days of the practices on the grass will be helpful as well.
Q. You seemed to be playing well out there today, but she seemed to have an answer for everything.  Do you think she just produced an inspired performance?
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, I think it showed good tennis today.  But I think that when I had the break in the third one, I should probably -- I don't know that I did anything wrong.  She was just really going forward.
I was just trying, but I didn't know what I did worse today.  Maybe I should take more balls little bit closer to the baseline and putting the pressure on her.  But it was difficult.
Q. Did you feel like it might not be your day when that net cord happened that gave her the break in the first set?
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah.  Unfortunately, it was unlucky for me, but that's how it is.  I couldn't really do anything, but, of course, it was bad luck.
Q. But you're still feeling confident for the rest of the grass season?
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I do.  I love play on the grass and I think that I showed good tennis the first round and today as well.  I think that the serve was on the good level today.  I think on the points that I will be a little bit better.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT