ROLAND GARROS
May 22, 2016
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








P. KVITOVA/D. Kovinic
6-2, 4-6, 7-5
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. Started really well and got really complicated.  How do you explain how it switched and how did you manage to get out of this?
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, it's true.  I start pretty well, and I think that the conditions weren't really easy today.
I think that in the second set when I was serving to 4-1, I missed four easy backhands and I felt like that was kind of the turning point and I was kind of down mentally after this game.  I think she just came back and tried to play more aggressive.  I was just I think running like too far from the basing line.  I was just trying to put the ball in, but it's not really my game.
So that was kind of difficult.  She started to serve well, as well, and I missed my serve a lot.
It was very difficult match today.  But in the end, I think that the end of the match was kind of sorry from my side.  It was a big fight again.  I'm happy that I won it.
Q. You just said you managed in the end the last three games to be solid.  You played so many three-setters.  Obviously you know that.  At this point when you are late in the third, do you draw on confidence from previous matches?  Do you feel you can hang in there in these three-setters?
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, I played a lot of three-set matches, but it's not my plan when I'm stepping on the court, but if I have to, I really have to.
I think that from the experience, which I have already, I still can believe that I still can win it.  Even she's serving for the match or something like that.
It's really like difficult and close situation in a match, but I still am trying to trust myself (smiling).
Q. What will you look to improve into your second-round match?  There are some double faults today at crucial times that let you down.  So moving forward, what would you look to improve?
PETRA KVITOVA: Definitely is the serve, for sure.  I think that I had up and downs with the serves today.  About the double faults, as well.  I made three in the game.  It's not really nice.
And I think that sometimes I'm like too far from the basing line.  So I think that I have to still push myself to be closer to the basing line and try to maybe go for the net more often.
Q. Looking forward to the summer, do you plan to play at the Olympics?  I would like to know how important they are to you.
PETRA KVITOVA: I'm planning to play Olympics.  The Olympics games are very important for me.  I think it's kind of one of the Grand Slams.  I will do my best there again.
Q. (Question off microphone.)
PETRA KVITOVA: I think so.
Q. You did serve and volley a couple of times, which I guess normally we wouldn't serve on a surface like clay.  I think 18 times you came to the net, winning ten of those points.  Is that something you're trying to incorporate into your game a little bit more?
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, yeah, I'm trying not only today but last couple of weeks, and even as on the clay, I think that when I'm playing aggressive I have still chances to go for the net.  I think that I still could go more often today, and sometimes serve and volley, it's really paying off, but I think she returned really well today.
I was a little bit scared to go there.  But, yeah, it's one of the situation when I'm trying to put in more.
Q. I think it was your style of game when you started on the tour, being aggressive, coming to the net a lot.  Do you see a reason why you stopped at some point doing that, and you feel like you have to do it again?
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, maybe.  I think that like I just spoke with my father when I been home, and he told me that I was on the net like very often.  It was difficult to end the rally without being on the net for me.
So I think that I have it in block, I just missed that somewhere, and I'm just trying to find it again and put it there (smiling).
Q. Obviously there has been several players coming into this tournament who are in form and have won titles.  How do you feel about your chances in this tournament?  Do you feel the field is a bit more open than usual?
PETRA KVITOVA: The first thing I'm really happy I'm healthy.  I was struggling last couple of weeks with the health.  So that's the first thing that I'm happy about.
And about the chances, I don't really want to talk about the chances.  I just feel that like every match we are playing here is just so open.  And as we saw today, you never really know how is end up.
But I had a great couple of days of practice before coming here.  I just think that I need some confidence from the matches and like feel more relaxed on the court.  We'll see.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT