US OPEN
September 4, 2020
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  P. KVITOVA/J. Pegula
 6-3, 6-4
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. How much are you settling into these conditions?  Was it playing particularly quick?  Talk about the level tonight.
 PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, I think the whole match was on pretty good level.  We both play kind of nice tennis, I would say.  It was a little bit tricky in few games when I was serving.  I think it was really important to stay there, even she break me back in the first, that I close up afterwards.
 Second set, yeah, I was down.  I came back.  It was really big fight those two or three games which I really had to fight very hard.  That probably was the turning point.
 Then I felt better.  Even I was holding my serve.  I tried to go little bit more for the volleys I would say because she really played great from the baseline.
 Q. We could hear you shouting even more than unusual in the empty stadium.  Does your intensity change at all in the different atmosphere or it's still a US Open third round, same stakes, same guts?
 PETRA KVITOVA:   It's weird.  Definitely weird.  It's US Open, but normally I'm screaming like this.  Nobody could hear it that well because the people are gone (laughter).  This time, every time I scream, I was like, Oh, it was too loud.  Oh, no, that's too much.
 I don't know.  I can't do anything.  In the end of the day, I think it's still better to do this than nothing if I feel it like this.  Yeah, it's how it is.
 Q. What did you see from her game?  She played very well this summer.
 PETRA KVITOVA:   That's how I was prepared for the match exactly.  She does.  She had a great run in Cincinnati, the tournament before.  I know that she really fight in the last match against Kirsten.  Definitely I know she is a big fighter, she can play.
 Definitely she is mixing the serve a lot.  She is a good mover as well.  She always putting the balls a little bit longer.  It's a little bit tougher to go more forward.  That's what I found out.
 But I still had to push her, push her, push her, wait for my chance to go for the winner or going for the net or something like this.  Definitely my serve was helping me today in those important points.  I'm happy for that.
 Q. Are you pretty pleased with your level, the way you're playing, particularly the way you're serving, managing the crazy situation in New York through the first week?
 PETRA KVITOVA:   I'm definitely happy that I'm through the first week.  I mean, few weeks ago I didn't have idea that really US Open will take place.  For me was miracle that it's really happening.
 I'm here, sitting in front of you all - almost - being in the second week.  It's really great.  I'm really glad that I decided to come here to play.  Even it's without the fans, it's still beautiful stadiums, great courts, great organization.  It's still the Grand Slam.
 I know that if I didn't come maybe one day I going to regret myself that I didn't come.  I'm really happy that I came.
 Q. Looking ahead to playing Shelby, talk about the challenge.  Big hitter who loves a fast court.
 PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, exactly.  Yeah, another American, definitely.  I'm really glad the fans are not here because otherwise they are cheering against me.  That's a good side of it.
 Anyway, I know Shelby played great in Lexington.  She has a great run here so far, as well.  She worked hard probably in the lockdown.  I know she had some injuries, so it's really great to see her back playing great.
 Definitely big serve, big hitter as you mentioned.  I think it will be about the first two points, two shots in the rally, we will see.  I got to be prepared for everything.
 Q. We're seeing all this emphasis in the US Open on Black Lives Matter, social issues around America.  Do you think the tour could do more year-round because there's issues in other parts of the world?  Or do you think less is good?
 PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, my thought is very simple.  I think in this time of our lives, we are dealing with COVID.  I think it would be great if everything in peace and we are just fighting against one thing, not like with so many things in the same time.  That would be my opinion on it.
 Take care about ourselves, be thinking just nicely.  I mean, that's most important I think, to be kind to each other.  That's how I became in my family, that's how my parents teach me, always to be nice to others.
 It will be great if it's like this, then it's nothing happening like the other issues in the world.  Yeah, the COVID, it's really big problem right now, so that's probably the one thing which we should focus on.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT