BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 16, 2016
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. RADWANSKA/P. Kvitova
6-2, 7-6
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Just wasn't your day with that net cord today, was it?
PETRA KVITOVA: You know, I was kind of tired from everything.  I think I didn't feel that confidence.  I wish playing Aga it's about the small, about the small centimeters which I was missing today I think for every shot.
I think I had a good chance in the second set, but she came back strong.  The tiebreak I think was just very unlucky.  But I think that overall the tournament here was great for me and I should take a lot of positive things.
Q. Where do you feel your game is now as you go into Miami?
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, of course it's not still great.  But that aside, I had four matches, which is great.  I just feel that that can help me, for sure.  Another hard court tournament is coming.
You know, in Miami with the humid it's not really easy for me, but I think that the other conditions will be helpful, hopefully.
Q. Like what?
PETRA KVITOVA: I think that the surface is a little bit faster, so that's I think will kind of help my game.
Q. How important is the Fed Cup for you nowadays, at this stage of your career?  How do you look at the semifinal in Switzerland?
PETRA KVITOVA: I think that Switzerland is tough have opponent.  Playing away in your home will be very crowded; very supportive over there, definitely.  I think the team of Switzerland, it's difficult and it's going to be big challenge.
Q. The team is winning most of the time.  Is there a secret behind it?
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, if there is secret I will not tell you, but I don't think so.  (Smiling.)  I think that we have great players in the team.  We are good persons, as well.  We are always getting well together.
Q. Can you kind of give me an evaluation of maybe your run through this tournament?  You had a lot of tough matches.  You were pushed to three sets quite often.  How do you feel about your performance here in Indian Wells?
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, I tried to push myself to the third set again today, but unfortunately it didn't happen.  Overall I think that the tournament gave me good signs.  I have been working hard before the tournament, and that I think was really paid off during this week.
I think that the matches which I played was a lot about the physical preparation, and I think that I handle it quite well.  In the end of the matches I played a good game, as well.  I think that overall should help me.
Q. What do you think you take from this tournament that's going to help you down the road?
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I think these big fights which I had during the year, during the tournament, will help me to my confidence.  I played four matches which I didn't play yet in this year, so it's very good sign of it.
I can see that I can really handle many matches, which is good sign.
Q. I know you have talked a lot about not having a coach this week.  Your evaluation after everything this week, are you still comfortable just going it alone right now, or are you starting to think maybe I need to start looking for a coach?
PETRA KVITOVA: You know, I didn't really have a time to think about right now.  I was focusing on the tournament and on the matches.  Now I will have of course some days before Miami, so maybe something will come to my mind.
Maybe not.  I will see.  But I will not do any decision now.
Q. Do you plan to play the tournament in Charleston or do you take a break after Miami?
PETRA KVITOVA: Not sure yet.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT