BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 15, 2016
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








P. KVITOVA/N. Gibbs
4-6, 6-3, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. I know you want to play a lot of points in matches here, but...
PETRA KVITOVA: You're right.  You know, after losing the first set I was like, Okay, so today I want to play long.  (Smiling.)
But that's how it is.  The first set, I mean, I had a break but I still didn't play what I wanted.  I think in the beginning of the second set and until the end of the match I think I play really good game.  I was serve and volley a bit better and playing some volleys and a little bit rallies when I needed.
Q. How important are these all these wins for you?  You talked about what you need to do.
PETRA KVITOVA: I think every one is very important for me right now.  Definitely this big fight which I had during this tournament helped me a lot.
I just really need the matches.  So probably two-and-a-half hours it's great practice for me, too.  (Smiling.)
Q. Do you feel like in that third set when things are tight, do you feel more confident in the third set, let's say, today than you did in the first match you had?
PETRA KVITOVA: For sure, yes.  Of course when I was like serving for the match the first match of the tournament came a little bit in my mind, because I didn't really finish it that time.
But I was feeling better and confident.  You know, when I won the first point for 15-Love was much better then give me more relaxed time.  So it was helping.
Q. You have a potentially tough match coming up next.  What are your thoughts especially given that you had to fight a lot this week.
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, I will fight again.  I think I still have a little bit of energy.
The last match we played in Singapore was different conditions, definitely, playing indoor compared here.  Weather should be very warm and outdoor.  Aga is playing really good game.  I just probably will need, you know, playing really good way, tactically well, playing aggressively, going for it.
We'll see.  Like I can catch a lot of balls and playing really smart.  I have to be ready.
Q. Coming forward a lot.  People are saying the balls are flying pretty high.  Other people have had trouble adjusting.
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, I think I have problems, as well.  Last couple of years I always dealing with that.
This time I felt a little bit better, of course.  It's everything about the times spending on the court and with the conditions.
I think that moving forward to play some volleys and something like that helped me, as well, to finish the shots a little bit early.
Q. Seems funny almost that this time last year you were off and now you're playing really, really long matches.  It's almost totally the opposite.
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, I missed that, so I have to play long now because of people that can enjoy it.
Yeah, last year was difficult decision to take a break.  I'm glad that I did it, but I missed this tournament.  It's beautiful here.  Even the conditions are a little bit weird, but that's fine.
I'm really glad that I'm still in the draw and I have the opportunity to play tomorrow.
Q. Is serving any different, just the serve, throwing it up, hitting it, any different here in Indian Wells than any other tournaments?  Is there something unique about that particular thing?
PETRA KVITOVA: I don't think so, actually.  I mean, of course playing the first match at 11:00 it's a little bit difficult for me as a lefty.  The sun is there and it's bothering me a bit.
But otherwise I don't really feel that it's flying more or something.  Sometimes I have a few centimeters out, but I don't think it's because of the air and everything.  I mean, it's just weird.
So I'm not really sure that it's about that.
Q. When you think back to that match with Aga in Singapore, what stands out?
PETRA KVITOVA: That was difficult match.  The first set I didn't really have a chance probably, and in the second she gave me a little bit chance and I took that.
I didn't really finish that, but I think it was really great tennis from both of us.  I think that she just play better in the important key points, so I think this will be similar tomorrow again.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT