QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 23, 2016
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








P. KVITOVA/B. Strycova
7-5, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions for Petra Kvitova, please.
Q. How did you feel on court today?  Can you talk a little bit about your next opponent?
PETRA KVITOVA: I felt okay.  I think I was kind of relaxed a little bit.  I know it's going to be a difficult match, which was.
She had a few set points in the first set and I was still able to come back and win the first.  I think it was kind of the important thing in the match.
About my next opponent, I never played her.  I don't know her as well.  So I do a little bit research.
Q. You're going to play doubles with the one you just beat?
PETRA KVITOVA: We played already.
Q. Sorry.  So many press conferences.  So how do you see yourself going in the doubles competition?
PETRA KVITOVA: I mean, we played good match today.  We won, so that's good.  We will see how is it tomorrow.
Q. Just on your health, how are you feeling at the moment?
PETRA KVITOVA: I'm feeling okay.  My health is getting better every day.  That's important.  I mean, the struggling during the summer last year was a really difficult time.  I was glad I was able to handle it somehow.
The beginning of the season was not really easy with my stomach virus.  I Lost a little bit of weight and energy.  I think I'm on a good spot already.
Q. Was that problem this year associated with the mono you had last year?
PETRA KVITOVA: No, wasn't anything together with mono.  I mean, I got some virus probably in plane or in china.  I'm not pretty sure.  I had the diarrhea for, like, a week or 10 days, so it was difficult.
Q. Do you have to be careful with how you train?  Do you not push yourself too hard?
PETRA KVITOVA: No, I'm pushing myself.  I have to.  I need to really practice and get some practices done to be ready for these kind of matches and tournaments which is coming up.
I couldn't really practice before the Australian Open, which was very sad for me.  But I can practice now.  That's good.
Q. Just ask you one general question about your career.  If you could go back and play one match again, which match would it be?
PETRA KVITOVA: It will be semifinals of the Australian Open when I Lost against Maria 2012, I think.
Q. Three sets, wasn't it, I think?
PETRA KVITOVA: Yes.
Q. You felt you should have won that?
PETRA KVITOVA: I had many chances and I didn't take them.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT