MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 2, 2016
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
P. KVITOVA/E. Vesnina   
6-3, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How did you find that today?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Good.  I won.  In two sets.  It was nice to be on center court again definitely.  It's a beautiful court, and even I have it to warmup this morning.  Felt very special.  Felt very great that I could play again on and win it.   
 Q.  Happy with the way you started the tournament obviously with two straightforward matches at least on the score.  Getting off to a good start here to possibly defend your title.  Maybe.  
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, definitely the start it's always kind of difficult and tricky, and I'm glad that I had two matches with only two sets.  Yeah, was pretty good.  I didn't really lost my serve so far, which is unbelievable with my percentage today.   
But it's very special.  (Laughter.)   
 Q.  After seeing Aga and Angie exit early, the top two seeds, what goes in your mind when you step on a court after two upsets?  Does it give you a bit of extra pressure?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Not really.  I mean, I know how difficult is the women's tennis right now and how opponent is.  For Angie it's really difficult.  She just won Stuttgart and I think she would be very exhausted afterward.  And Barbora of course is always giving hard time on the court.  It's not really easy.   
Aga I didn't really see anything, but I know how difficult it is to play someone very good from the first rounds.   
I think that we are getting use to it about the upsets.   
 Q.  It was a two-set win, but at times you looked a little frustrated.  Is that because Vesnina is on her way back up and can be quite a handful?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I felt frustrated, yeah.  I was kind of angry that I'm frustrated, so it was really good circle today.   
But always in the end of the sets I find a way to kind of break her serve.  But during the match, of course I didn't really push the returns or the first serves, so I get a little bit frustrated.   
Importantly is that I won what I had to.  I need to get better for the next one.   
 Q.  You defeated Serena Williams last year in the semifinals.  I know she's not playing here now, but if you were to play her later this year, how confident are you in the matchup?  
PETRA KVITOVA: With Serena?   
 Q.  Yes.  
PETRA KVITOVA: I have no idea.  I think it's always big challenge to play Serena.  Last year here was my first time to beat her, which was very special for me and I play very good match.   
I think if I going to play her again it will be good challenge for me again.  Of course I would like to try to win.   
 Q.  How happy are you with your current performance and how are things going with the new coach?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I'm happy with my performance right now.  I think I played great matches in Stuttgart, and especially two weeks before the Stuttgart I had a good preparation on the clay with the two weeks.   
I have a new coach.  That's always great to have someone who's helping you and finding a good way of your game and plan.  I feel okay.  Importantly is that my body feels okay.  I hope that this will kind of continue.   
 Q.  You mentioned Angie is sort of struggling a little bit with having won Stuttgart and coming tired.  Do you think there is an element to when you win your first slam, everything that comes with it - the media, obligations, pressure, focus back home - do you think some of that is beginning to tell on her?  We're used to seeing consistent performances from her.  
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, I think especially Australia, after I think that she play just Doha, and I'm not pretty sure how was it afterwards.   
From my side I know how difficult it is.  Czech Republic is kind of small country if I compare it to Germany, right?  So I can't really imagine German fans.   
Overall, like it's not really easy that everybody is expecting that you going to win everything.  All of the players are just motivated to beat Grand Slam champion, especially if it's this year.   
I think that Angie showed great tennis in Stuttgart last week, and I think that she's kind of like taking it nicely, so far.  So I hope that she will find a way to deal with all the pressure and things around.   
 Q.  On the subject of a new coach, you were with your last coach for a very long time.  How difficult is it to adjust to being with someone you were with for a very long time and a new coach?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I think it was really difficult decision for me to split with David after seven years.  Wasn't really easy.  I wish him all the best for the future with Caroline as well.  I just felt I needed someone new, inputs to put into the game, which Franti is doing.   
Of course it's different.  I can't say it's difficult, but it's something new.  I think he's seeing my game really clearly and what I have to do.   
It's different kind of things, but still in the same way.  They are a little bit looking differently on the game, but I'm happy what I did, happy with the situation I am in.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT