US OPEN
September 2, 2020
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  P. KVITOVA/K. Kozlova
 7-6, 6-2
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. What was the difference between the first and second set, 7-6 tiebreaker in the first, 6-2 in the second?  In your estimation, what was the difference?
 PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, I think, you know, in the first set it was kind of tough.  I was really fighting a little bit the opponent but with myself as well.  There was a lot of nerves over there.  I lose my serve and I was still down and I still try to come back and answer.
 So I was really fighting and, you know, was really tight, and I made some easy mistakes and I double fault a lot.  Actually when I won the tiebreak in the first set, it's been a little bit easier, I think, that I was more relaxed, more kind of calmer.  That's really helped me.
 Beginning of the second set I got the break, and it was a little bit easier for me to -- I was breathing a little bit more freer.  So it was really important for me to get everything done and be more calm.
 In the second set I think I really played good one.  I served much better.  You know, I was hitting clearly not that many mistakes.
 Q. Just talking through the first two matches, I mean, what are you most pleased about with your game, with the adjustments that you have been able to make?  Obviously in Cincinnati you said that you didn't play badly in that loss, so it just seems like you have been able to find your rhythm on the courts here.
 PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, I think the biggest difference compared to my first match in Cincinnati and here those two rounds, I think that mentally I'm a little bit more there, to be honest, and I'm kind of motivated myself much more than in my first match here.
 So that's probably the biggest difference.  That's of course the attitude in the court and everything is just connection in between.
 Yeah, I think it's about this kind of to be there for every point.  I know just get used to playing without the fans, it's just something different.  And I think it was really good preparation to have, even I lost the match against Marie, but that's how it is.
 Anyway, I'm glad for it, even it was good lessons.  Maybe was good that I lost, I don't know.  But that's how it is.  So I'm trying to just take everything what I could from it and just move forward.
 Q. After that loss and going into this event and preparing, you talking about the mental side which everybody is saying about the toughest part about coming back, not physical or tactical but staying focused for a full match, what is the switch that has to flip in your mind to be that way, to be locked into a match?
 PETRA KVITOVA:   I think because we are playing without the fans, everything is totally different.
 I know we have a team there, which is perfect, but, you know, sometimes you play unbelievable shot and there is just three clapping.  So, okay, it wasn't that great.  So I have to still push myself to be more mentally focused.
 But it's, you know, on the other hand it's a little bit like a practice without the fans, and so it's really like -- I really have to be still reminding myself to be there for every point.  That's what counts in the end, and I think that's the differences, as well.
 Q. You could play either Pegula or Flipkens in the next round.  Could you talk through each of those?  Pegula is playing really well.
 PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, I know she does, for sure.  She been up the first set, she won in a tiebreak.  I watched a little bit.
 I don't really know her game, so it will be more about to watch her a little bit, for sure, and, you know, talk a little bit with my coach.
 With Kirsten, of course, we played a few times.  I know her game.  She's very tricky, a lot of slice, a lot of dropshots.  I mean, she has a variety of her game, really.
 Yeah, she's still dangerous player even her ranking doesn't show it, but still, she's still there.  That's how it is.  And I have to be patient if I'm playing with her.
 Q. Are you coming to site to practice on your off days or are you doing your 'New York, don't come to site' thing?
 PETRA KVITOVA:   I'm not practicing in my day off.  But I can't go for the coffee and go to Manhattan so it's a little bit different.
 Q. What is the key to you playing your best here?  What is the easiest and what is the most difficult part of having no big-crowd atmosphere for your matches?
 PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, I think I kind of explain it a little bit before.  I mean, the atmosphere is different.  Playing without the crowd, for sure, it's something that we had to get used to.
 For me, in the beginning, it was a little bit like a practice.  I already played a tournament in Prague without the fans, and it was really difficult from the first match.  But it's kind of few months ago, as well.  So I just have to get used to play.
 And to play the best here?  I don't know.  Play my game, for sure, help with my serve, and, yeah, we'll see.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT