BNP PARIBAS WTA FINALS
October 30, 2015
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







G. MUGURUZA/P. Kvitova
  6‑4, 4‑6, 7‑5

THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

Q. You're in an interesting position now because you really are at the hands of Lucie. How does that feel? 
PETRA KVITOVA: I don't know if it's interesting. For me probably not. 
But I think for me it's first time in kind of this situation, so it's kind of new for me.
Of course I'm cheering for Lucie, but, I mean, I did everything what I could today. Really didn't happen. I left everything so I'm okay.

Q. Just talk about the match overall. Long match. A little up and down, but still very close at the end. 
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, was really up and down kind of each set, and then she really going forward, going to push the opponent a lot. That's what I was trying as well.
I think the serves and returns wasn't that strong today probably from both of us, and I just felt that I should‑‑ you know, couldn't do that mistake in the last game and she was serving 5‑4. 
That was probably the thing which was disappointing for me. 

Q. Garbine is the only player other than you to go undefeated if the group in their first tournament at the Finals. You did it in 2011; she's doing it now. Do you remember back in 2011 how different it was to play the Finals maybe, making your debut, compared to now?
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, do I remember. It was great. I mean, I remember before my first match I played Zvonareva in my first match and I was so nervous. I couldn't really have a proper warmup so it was really terrible.
After that I played so well. That was great. I remember the last match in the group as well. I played Aga, and after the match I find out that she was in have to win a set. She was leading 5‑1 in the first set and she lost that, so she wasn't really happy with me, but that's how was it. 
It was great fights all the tournament. I remember. Was great week and great even that year for me. 

Q. Physically were you okay today? 
PETRA KVITOVA: Physically? 

Q. Yes, your body. 
PETRA KVITOVA: I feel a little bit some parts of the body, but was still okay and I was still able to move and serve and play.
It's okay.

Q. But you weren't exhausted? 
PETRA KVITOVA: No, I wasn't exhausted, no. I was a little tired, but is everyone here. Not really like exhausted.

Q. But you're a little frustrated because you're not 100%?
PETRA KVITOVA: No, I can't say that. I mean, I have it for a couple of months already and I think I'm kind of used to the situation.
So I wasn't frustrated at all. 

Q. What are your aims in the off‑season? Do you really want to get the health thing sorted out to be 100% for next year?
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, for sure that's the main thing what I wanted to do, to improve my health. I have a few weeks for that, so I hope it's going to help me.
Still have a Fed Cup final ahead, which is interesting and I'm really looking forward to do that. The main goal is be prepared and healthy for the next season. 

Q. When you look back ‑ and you might have another match, you might not ‑ assuming that you don't, can you assess this season? It's been a bit of a rollercoaster. 
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah. As every season I think. (Laughter.) I think it was kind of victory to be here anyway. 
The bonus was that I won the match. That's great. Yeah, was really up and down. Very bad beginning of the season. Not really have a great result on the Grand Slams but winning three titles. 
Finally I break US Open. Yeah, it was a lot of things happened this year again. 

Q. Getting back to the health thing, you say you're going to try to get it sorted out the off‑season. Do you have any specific appointments or anything like that? 
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, I mean, I can't really know what I can do, but I should make a new blood test again and see how everything is going.
It's improving. That's a good sign. We will see. I mean, for now I didn't think about. 

Q. How often do you have the tests? 
PETRA KVITOVA: In the last couple of months, very often.

Q. Like weekly?
PETRA KVITOVA: Not weekly when I'm in the tournaments, but after a month. 

Q. Yeah. Okay. Good luck. 
PETRA KVITOVA: Each month. Thank you. 

Q. I walked in late, so ignore me if you've been asked this before. Now that you've played Muguruza the first time, what do you pick up on her game that surprised you or didn't know about from watching her before? 
PETRA KVITOVA: Tough to say what surprised me. I mean, I know what she's playing. I think a little bit was the backhand down the line which I didn't expect that should be that often. So probably that's kind of new thing which I learned. 
On the other side, I probably knew what to expect. 

Q. Talk a little bit about Prague. Two weeks now. Going to play Maria, probably on a Sunday, Sharapova. Excited about it? 
PETRA KVITOVA: Yes, I am. For sure. Actually, I am very excited that they are coming in full power, so that's great, to have amazing final at home.
It's going to be full again. It's going to be a lot of nerves again. And exciting. So I'm really looking forward to do that. 

Q. What was the highlight of your season?
PETRA KVITOVA: (Smiling.) I think winning the Madrid after my month off when I beat Serena, and I think the US Open. 
And I'm here. (Smiling.) That's great. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT