BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 13, 2016
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
P. KVITOVA/J. Larsson   
6-3, 4-6, 7-5   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Another tough fight.  
PETRA KVITOVA: Another, yes.   
 Q.  Another.  How good does it feel to get through a tough --  
PETRA KVITOVA: It's such a relief, I think.  I think I fought much more than the first set, so the relief is a little bit bigger.   
I think I played better, as well, especially first set.  Unfortunately the accident happen on the stands, so it was kind of weird, you know, to sitting on the chair and someone is really struggling with the hot.  It was just tough.   
I think that she really pushed me a lot, because she couldn't really miss anything.  I was like really have to doing everything what I could in the moment and really trying to have some winners, because otherwise we can play still now (smiling.)   
So I'm glad that I was using some kind of volleys and this stuff.   
 Q.  Did it throw you?  I know you came back to finish the first set, but did what happened in the stands throw you off your rhythm a little bit?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, I think so.  I'm kind of sensitive, unfortunately, so, you know, when I was sitting on chair it wasn't really nice.   
But I couldn't finish my serve but then I returned well.  Beginning of the second set I wasn't really in a good rhythm.  That happen that she broke me for a game, and it was difficult still coming back.   
 Q.  What changes would you make?  Judging from this match today, at times it was difficult to return her serve?  Will you make with your coach any changes?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I don't have a coach, so...  I will coach myself.   
No, for sure I have a practice tomorrow, and I think it's a few things what I could really improve.  So I will work on it tomorrow and see what's the next match will bring.   
 Q.  I thought you played well, especially the first set.  
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, yeah, yeah.  That was good set, definitely.   
 Q.  I see a lot of great potential.  
PETRA KVITOVA: Thank you.   
 Q.  Your thoughts about your next round against Nicole.  She's having a pretty good tournament.  
PETRA KVITOVA: Yes.  She beat Madison, I think, right?  And Shvedova today.  Definitely she's playing well here.  I think she's a very good mover.  She can catch a lot of balls and putting back everything.   
So I think today was kind of good practice, but I played her once in New Haven, I remember.  She wasn't that high on the ranking as she is now.  So definitely will be difficult.   
I will have to be ready 100%, and really have to fight again.   
 Q.  Have you been taking notice of how many upsets there has been in this tournament so far?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I do a bit.  I mean, not really following on the day I'm not playing.  It was big upset yesterday because we lost doubles, so that was difficult.  (Laughter.)   
Yeah, I saw.  I know Garbine lost.  Ivanovic won.  Yeah, I saw something, but I think in the last couple of weeks in tournaments we saw many kind of upsets in the first rounds.  I was one of them, as well, unfortunately.   
But that's what happening.   
 Q.  Does that say something about this wave of players coming up?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, I think so.  The level of the players are really tight and it's really close.  Every match, it's really very open.  Even when she's like 60, 50.  Doesn't really matter.  If she's playing well, the top seeds are not really (indiscernible), and that's difficult.   
 Q.  You spoke that you don't have a coach now.  Are you working on obtaining a coach, or is that something that -- I mean, what's the situation?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I'm not really finding a coach right now.  I'm having break.  I have a hitting partner here with my fitness coach.   
So when I really feel that I will need him, that I gonna look for him.   
 Q.  Or her?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Or her.  Him.  Him.  Him.   
 Q.  Any coaches sending you resumés?  I know you're not looking, but any resumés sent to you?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Many.  Yes.   
 Q.  Why don't you consider a female coach?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I don't know.  I didn't really think about the female.  Because I was always coaching by the man, so I think I'm used to.   
 Q.  Used to bossing him about?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, no.  That's just my feeling.  Of course, if any female will bring the best -- you never know, of course.   
 Q.  If Martina came in that door right now and said, I'll coach you, would you consider her?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Probably no.   
 Q.  Where do you see yourself two, three years from now?  Do you have a vision or a goal?  Where do you see yourself?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I don't know what gonna be tomorrow.  No, I don't have any vision, I think.   
 Q.  No vision?  
PETRA KVITOVA: No vision.  I'm just living right now and not really looking too ahead.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT