QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 24, 2016
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
J. OSTAPENKO/P. Kvitova   
5-7, 6-2, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions for Petra Kvitova, please.   
 Q.  Give us your verdict on the match.  Was it a case of just running out of energy a bit towards the end?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, I felt a little bit tired.  In the middle of the second set, I had a game where I lost my serve, and I think that was kind of like the breaking point that I lost that game.  I was little bit suffering with the wind.   
It was not as easy to play today for sure.  It was mentally tough for me, especially when I lost that game.  It was difficult for me to come back.   
She started to play well actually.  I felt like I gave her the chance to take the second set.  She was still continued in the good form.   
 Q.  Was losing your serve in that first game of the third set, did you think it was going to be really tough now?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, of course I felt a little bit like that.  But in the start, I knew I lost my first game of this match as well.  It was a little bit difficult.  I felt a little bit tired.  My legs couldn't really move as I wish.  With the wind I felt like it was coming even faster to my side.  I didn't really have time to be prepared for the shot.   
 Q.  You going to be okay for doubles?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I'm not playing double.   
 Q.  Your week here, has it been a good week for you?  You've got a couple of matches in and you've had some doubles, haven't you?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Especially doubles (smiling).   
Definitely was a good week for me.  I played several matches if I'm counting doubles.  And for sure I was better than Dubai last week.  So for me it's a good week.   
I think that I improved my game.  I think I'm physically a little bit better than I did before, and my serve was okay as well.  So I think that I have kind of main things to still build on.   
 Q.  You mentioned yesterday that you lost some weight when you got sick.  Is your weight back to where you want it to be and does it affect your tennis today?  
PETRA KVITOVA: My weight is fine.  I'm on the good point as I headed before, before I got the stomach virus.  From this side, I think I'm fine.  And physically I'm ready as well.  So, yeah, it was fine.   
 Q.  Today your opponent, Jelena, she is a young and upcoming player.  Maybe she has nothing to lose.  What do you think makes her tough to play against?  What kind of shot, what kind of ability bothered you the most?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, definitely she's going for every shot.  Backhand, forehand, doesn't matter.  She's playing a little bit flat.  I remember my serve when I was young.  I think that she remind my game a bit.   
But I think that's she moving okay as well from side to side.  And, yeah, I think the backhand crosscourt, she never misses almost, and the forehand is good as well.  Sometimes I feel that you never know if it's going in or out, but most of the time it was in, unfortunately.  Her serve has good kick.   
 Q.  You said just now you remembered when you were young.  Do you feel old?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I do a little bit, but, you know, when I am like talking about the young, that means when I starting on the WTA Tour, but you know that.   
 Q.  And about your world ranking.  You're No. 8  now, and there's a number of players quite close behind you.  Are you concerned about your ranking?  
PETRA KVITOVA: No, I always said that number doesn't really important for me.  On the other side, of course, I don't want to drop so much.   
But I think still, I mean, I had kind of difficult last year and this beginning of the year.  So I think I still have a game to be top, but, of course, not every time is showing.   
If anyone will jump me, I will not have any big problems.  But of course I will do my best to come back.   
 Q.  What did you learn from this week here in Doha?  What do you have to fix in your game before your next tournament?  I think it's Indian Wells?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Yes, it's Indian Wells.   
I think, you know, it really helped this week because I play several matches.  I really needed some kind of many matches to play.  From the practice, it's great.  But practice is not same as the match.  So I think it's important.   
What I learn is that I still am able to be mentally focused and play well.  Physically, I think I'm at a good level right now.  And I think that everything will like be together and be prepared well, I think I can play good tennis again.   
 Q.  What is for you the most fun thing about being in Doha that you do you every time you come here, that you look forward to?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Actually, I didn't almost anything, unfortunately.  We have beautiful view from the hotel.  So it's great to have a hotel on the beach for sure.   
I spent everything here inside, practice and play, so I don't see anything.  Sorry.   
 Q.  Recently we see a lot of top players losing in like the first round or second round, early stage of the tournament here and Dubai.  How do you explain about this?  Everybody is getting better or schedule is too tight for top players?  Any explanation behind this?  
PETRA KVITOVA: You know, I think that all of us are playing so well, and I think the small things are a little tight.  That's why I think that in this time, everyone can beat everyone.  It's difficult to still handle the pressure of the top players.   
You know, someone playing as an outsider and they have nothing to lose, for them, it's much more easy than for us.   
And I just feel that everyone is playing so well, so that's why probably we are kind of losing.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT