CHINA OPEN
October 4, 2015
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

Q. How do you sum up the result today?
PETRA KVITOVA: Tough to say. I mean, of course the loss is always disappointing. I really wanted to win and kind of qualify for Singapore here. But I just wasn't really able to. 
You know, it was kind of game which I really had to be ready physically and mentally and everything, and I just wasn't. 
I just think it was kind of the case, I couldn't really serve in the second set as well. I didn't really help with anything. She were going for the chance. It was kind of difficult. 

Q. How much of a problem was your shoulder?
PETRA KVITOVA: It was a little bit problem. I mean, I didn't really could serve as fast as I wanted. But I was still able to play from the baseline. I just tried to do something with that. I took the anti‑pain pill, and that was just enough. 

Q. Where exactly were you feeling the pain in the shoulder?
PETRA KVITOVA: It's in the back of the shoulder.

Q. Was it more difficult to motivate for this year in China compared to last year? Is that something that you see as a difference between the two seasons?
PETRA KVITOVA: I can't really say it was like tougher to motivated. I just think that I wasn't ready as last year probably ‑ I mean physically for sure. 
I'm kind of sleepy all day long. It's just weird. It's just not great feelings which you wanted if you are going for the match. So I don't think it was the case to be motivated. I was coming here really motivated to do well and qualify for Singapore. 
It's still far away right now, so it's kind of disappointing that way. 

Q. Speaking of Singapore, I'm sure you haven't thought about it a ton, but when you look at the next two weeks, are you more tempted to just sit back and see whether or not you can qualify based on the other results and take the next two weeks off, or are you going to play indoors and try and qualify on your own?
PETRA KVITOVA: I just need to see how the case is. I mean, I'm entered in Moscow. If I need it, I go for sure. 
I know in my situation, it's not really easy to think like that right now. It's really tough decision. But on the other side, I really want to play there. 
If I must go, I go (smiling). 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT