DONGFENG MOTOR WUHAN OPEN
September 29, 2015
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

Q. You looked so tired in the third set. Were you surprised you pulled it off?
PETRA KVITOVA: I'm surprised myself that I'm still here. So that's kind of a good thing to know. 
I got really tired during the second set already. I don't know how I won it, but I did. It's kind of surprise for me, as well. 
But I think these kind of matches are important, as well, to get confidence and to know that if you are not playing well and you are not 100% ready for something like that, you can still win. So that's a good sign. 

Q. For the recovery, do you think it could be an issue for tomorrow? Do you think your body can get used to this?
PETRA KVITOVA: It's tough to say. Tomorrow is different day, different match. I mean, I'm not for the first time probably in this kind of situation. Of course, it would be nice to win in the two sets, in hour, have a good sleep and everything. But that's not always as it is in the life. 
But I'm glad I won. That's important. I will do my best to play good tennis tomorrow. 

Q. When you are feeling like you're getting tired, what do you tell yourself? What is your reaction? Are you thinking, Oh, no, here we go again, or that it's okay, keep going?
PETRA KVITOVA: You know, I mean, when I get really tired legs and everything, I just didn't really play like I wanted. But it's something what I can't change in that moment. It's just about the mental side, that you have to overcome kind of the situation, still think about the next point. 
So when you have pain somewhere, you're trying to hit somewhere else to have pain on another part of the body and you forget about the first thing (laughter). 
It's a little bit similar I think to get concentrate again for the point, for the first kind of return of serve. That's what I was trying. 
I mean, it's not really like surprise that I wasn't really ready for 100% because I didn't really practice that much. As I said, I was a little sick. I was still coughing during the match and still having the cold. These is the symptoms. I'm still glad I won it somehow.

Q. We talk a lot about practice, how you've changed that aspect of your game since the diagnosis. But recovery‑wise, what you do after matches, has that changed at all?
PETRA KVITOVA: You know, unfortunately I'm not recovery that fast as without the mono. So it's took me always awhile. Some of the pains on the body, it's always taking little bit longer. 
But the recovery, I mean, it's really similar as before. I can't really do something better. The sleep, of course, is the most important. But sometimes I can't really say sleep for 10 hours and I will. Sometimes I'm struggling with that. 
I'm trying to have everything what is possible: to eat well, to get the recovering drinks, to have a cold pool and everything like that. It's kind of all the things. 
But I will see tomorrow (smiling). 

Q. Quite a few players have come in here talking about this section of the season, with Asia, Singapore, Fed Cup. For you mentally, how do you approach this last few weeks of the season?
PETRA KVITOVA: I think I'm doing better than the last year so far. I'm still not qualified for Singapore as last year. That's kind of my goal, to do it in Asia. I hope I going to make it the same as last year. 
I mean, it's kind of tough because Asia is so far from Europe, the flight and everything. It's just taking little bit longer. Of course, the jetlags when you're coming from the U.S., Europe and here. It's messed up a little bit. Okay, I'm a little bit tired, but otherwise it's fine. 

Q. Next round you face Vinci. As a US Open finalist she's in good form. How will you deal with her?
PETRA KVITOVA: I think with Robie it's always kind of challenging. She's playing different to other players. It's always tough matches, I have to say. We played many times already. 
She is playing with a lot of slice and everything. For sure she is in a good form, as you said. Final of a Grand Slam is great. I'm happy for her, I like her. It's nice to have it for her. 
I do my best. I not really sure how I going to feel tomorrow. I think she going to feel good. We will see tomorrow. Really tough to say. 

Q. It was a pretty entertaining match to watch today from outside. How is Gavrilova as a player? She is bouncing on the court. Do you feel that vibe on the other side?
PETRA KVITOVA: I didn't really feel kind of energetic and everything because I was focusing on myself. But sometimes she played a little bit slower and then she hit it. I don't know if was as a plan or she's just playing like that. I'm not pretty sure. 
Some of the shots was flying very fast and suddenly it was so slow and I couldn't really hit it because it was so far from me. 
It was challenging as well and I didn't really get a good rhythm. In the end she tried to slice a lot. So I think that she has the variety. I mean, she were on the net, but I think from the baseline she's a very good mover, I have to say. It's very tough to make a winner on the last point, last shot. 
I think the serve, she can still improve a lot, especially the second serve. I mean, because that's why it's movers. I'm serving but I'm not moving. Somebody has something (smiling). 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT