BNP PARIBAS WTA FINALS
October 28, 2015
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 P. KVITOVA/L. Safarova
      7‑5, 7‑5 
  
    THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
   
 Q. Congratulations.   
    PETRA KVITOVA: Thank you.   
   
 Q. Talk us through the second set. You were down two breaks and then just pulled four games in a row.   
    PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, 3‑Love down wasn't really easy score for me for sure. Even I know how Lucie is serving well, so it was really, you know, kind of tough mentally and I couldn't really return in the beginning of the match.  
    So I was really trying to read a little bit her serve and put as many returns as I can. I was just point by point, and I'm glad I turn it around. It was a really difficult match; always close at the end of the sets. So I think it was good for both of us.   
   
 Q. Do you always drink Coke in a changeover?  
    PETRA KVITOVA: No.   
   
 Q. Why the Coke today?   
    PETRA KVITOVA: I felt a little bit my stomach, so just because of the healthy stuff.   
   
 Q. Your matches against her are often 7‑5, 7‑6. What's the difference for you? You always seem to be able to get over the line. What separates the two of you?  
    PETRA KVITOVA: Actually these kind of scores we have in the practices as well, so it's kind of very similar.   
    I don't know why. In the end of the set it's tough to say. It's probably I'm more patient or‑‑ it's difficult to say. I think in the last game she missed two forehands down the line. I think that's her best shot.  
    So probably that helped me in that game. But really tough to say. I mean, always when it's really tight, the sets, you going to try to keep to putting as many balls in and just try and wait what going to happen.  
    That's what I did today as well.   
   
 Q. Yesterday in your training session with the coach, both of you had a long introduction and the session lasted nearly 90 minutes but you didn't hit many balls. Seemed to be I don't know, some disagreement or something. Can you shed some light as to what was discussed?  
    PETRA KVITOVA: We had a chat, but that's it what I going to talk about. Sorry. (Smiling.)  
   
 Q. I know Lucie is a very good friend of yours. Do you get nervous when you go out on the court? Do you say, You know what? I don't want to be out here. She's my good, good friend; I don't want beat her.   
    PETRA KVITOVA: Before the match we have the same locker room and we were just chatting normally, not like we go to play each other soon.   
    She's good person and it's just, you know, kind of sad that we have to play each other in the group already.  
    We actually are good friend from the Fed Cup, so I'm really glad the Fed Cup is coming soon and we going to be colleagues and not opponents.  
    It's tough to play her for sure, not because she's only like very good player right now, she's in good form, but also playing friend it's a little bit tougher with emotional and everything.  
    So it's not easy to handle all these kind of stuff.   
   
 Q. After the win do you say, I'm really sorry I won the match?  
    PETRA KVITOVA: No, I didn't actually, but I wish her good health. I think that's the most important for everyone.   
   
 Q. Playing Garbine next and you guys have never played before. What do you make of her rise up the rankings? And also, what do you anticipate that match is going to be like?   
    PETRA KVITOVA: We just practice before the tournament started here. That's what I know her a little bit. I think that she's going to play very aggressively; going for the shots; have a good serve.  
    So I think I am going to play the same what I should play. It's going to be about the returns and the serves. I know how she's playing well right now. She had a great success in Asia as well. It's going to be difficult match for sure.  
    But we see. I'm looking forward. I never played her, so we see.   
   
 Q. Lucie makes these funny videos with her coach. Wondering you ever watch any of these videos and whether it surprises you that Lucie is ‑‑ that a different side of her?   
    PETRA KVITOVA: I did, but just a little bit, so I can't really tell. It's really difficult because I saw just a little bit, so it's not really good opinion. (Smiling.)  
   
 Q. With this tournament being sort of just before the Fed Cup final, are you like giving everything here or trying to hold something back for that final?   
    PETRA KVITOVA: I'm not holding anything. It's the last tournament of the individual kind of type of the season and it's the WTA final, so I should give everything and I am giving every out.  
    Of course when the Fed Cup will come it's a little bit different energy over there. Even we playing home, it's just the best energy what we can really wish in the end of the season.  
    I think I will be still able to give everything there as well.   
   
 Q. You played pretty well today. Is that the best you've played since the spring? Winter?   
    PETRA KVITOVA: For sure. I think the US Open was pretty good tournament for me, New Haven and US Open. After that I was a little bit struggling, but today was really good match. I think Lucie played really good today as well.  
    Yeah, was good one.   
   
 Q. You said that you felt weird during your first match. How did you feel today, and what do you think was the difference between your level of play and what you were able to do today compared to Monday?  
    PETRA KVITOVA: I feel tired right now. I think in the first match I was kind of probably nervous from the beginning of the match and I couldn't really play what I wanted.  
    Today from the beginning I really was trying to be there and be focused on each point. Lucie know me well, so that's why probably it was kind of in my mind somewhere to be ready from the beginning.  
    I know it's like the final, this match. If I lost I'm probably going home soon. So I was really trying to, you know, play what I can.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT