U.S. OPEN
September 5, 2015
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








P. KVITOVA/A. Schmiedlova
6-2, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You're playing Konta next coming from qualifying.  Does that present any particular problems at this stage of the tournament, someone coming from, you know, from way back in the rankings?
PETRA KVITOVA: I don't think so.  I mean, of course she has a couple of more matches played in U.S. than me, but I played in New Haven, as well.  It's kind of a little bit similar.
Of course she has to play really good that she's in the fourth round.  It's going to be a tough one.
Q. Can you tell us what you know about her?
PETRA KVITOVA: I can but not really much, so it's going to be difficult.
Not really.  I think I never played her, so it's kind of something new.
Q. Have you heard she's on like a 15- or 16-match win streak?
PETRA KVITOVA: No.  Now I know it.  (Smiling.)
Q. With a good amount of wins now under your belt, how do you feel just mentally and also physically playing all these matches?
PETRA KVITOVA: I feel great.  Of course, when you're winning everything a little bit easier.  During day off also like have rest and sleep and all this stuff.  Not really practicing that much.
I'm really focusing on the match day of course.  For the matches that's really important.
So I'm kind of, you know, really get ready for the match and then I have relax in the mind.
Mentally I'm feeling great.  That's important, I think.  That's why I am probably are playing how I play today, for example.
I think it's a good sign.
Q. With the Grand Slam format, having one day off between the matches, do you think that's kind of a perfect situation for you?
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, I think in this kind of situation it's great to have a day off, for sure.  It's a nice and relaxed day for me.  (Smiling.)
Q. How did you like your match today?
PETRA KVITOVA: I didn't love it actually.  I was kind of surprised how great I played, so it was very nice.  From the beginning I really didn't expect the shadow is on the court like that.  It was kind of little bit difficult I think going from shade to the sun.  It was so quickly.
Yeah, it was very weird, but it was same for both of us.  I think with the match goes on it was better and better to get used to these conditions.
I felt good on the court, so that's important.
Q. Given this diagnosis, does it give you more pleasure, your results?
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, I think so.  I think every match which I play and which I obviously won it's kind of bonus for me.  So I'm really happy for everything, you know.  The first thing great is that I'm able to play, I'm here, and that's really great to have kind of this feeling.
And the winning is just bonus, as I said.
Q. Petkovic said she was noticing players in the locker room with scarves like there was a flu going around.  Have you noticed that in the locker room or are you staying away from it?
PETRA KVITOVA: No, not really.  I'm really spending minimum time in the locker room and on-site.  So not really.
Q. I don't know if you've watched a bit of Genie Bouchard this week, but she seems to have found her poise again.  She's had a rough patch.  You have had a rough patch.  How quick can you lose confidence when that happens?  How quick can you gain it back with the wins?
PETRA KVITOVA: Actually, I didn't see any of her matches here.  I'm not generally following tennis right now.
But I know how tough it is, for sure, when you have a kind of not great moments and you are losing quite often.  It's really taking some time to get confidence back and everything.
Of course with the wins it's just easier, of course, but it's taking a little bit time.  I think she is kind of -- as I heard or read from the press, I think she was kind of looking for herself again to get what she really did well and everything in the game.
So I think just need a little bit of time.
Q. A few players have mentioned that obviously with Serena doing what she's doing and a lot of the focus on her that they actually enjoyed being under the radar.  Do you agree with that?  How do you feel about that for yourself?
PETRA KVITOVA: Of course I know that we are a lot of people speaking about Serena.  I have read it a lot, as well.  I had a lot of interviews on the name Serena.
But I'm okay.  I mean, anyway, I don't think that anybody is expecting something from myself.  I'm really easy and relaxed about that.  (Smiling.)
Q. Are you expecting something from yourself?
PETRA KVITOVA: No.  (Laughter.)  Not really.  I'm just playing.  That's the best.
Q. Playing someone like Konta, do you spend time finding out about their game?  Watch videos?
PETRA KVITOVA: Me actually not.  My coach is for sure.  I think he gonna try to find out something important to tactics and everything.
So that's his job, kind of.  (Smiling.)
Q. So what have you been doing during your off days?  Are you literally in your room sleeping?
PETRA KVITOVA: I am having nap.  I am having coffees, a little bit walk, some movies, as well.  That's it probably.
Q. Do you just stay in your room or...
PETRA KVITOVA: For the coffees I'm going out, but otherwise I'm staying in the room.
Q. What's the best movie you've watched?
PETRA KVITOVA: Last one was Money Ball, so that was really great.  Yeah.
Q. Do you know much about baseball?
PETRA KVITOVA: No, but it was fun.  (Laughter.)
Q. Just to come back to Serena, you know, she's been able to turn around matches this week.  I mean, how much do you learn from this as a player or how much inspiration do you get from that?
PETRA KVITOVA: I think that Serena is kind of inspiration for everyone who is on the tour, for sure.  She's kind of big champion.  Of course, we know how big fighter she is.  Of course that we needed to be fighter in the tennis world, as well.
I think the people who is playing her, they really know that if they win a set it's not the end.  She always kind of lift her level of the game higher, and that's how she did yesterday, as well.  I watched a little bit actually yesterday, and that's what I really -- so in the third set it was just great from her.
Q. You haven't made the quarterfinals here yet.
PETRA KVITOVA: That's a big challenge.
Q. So in your next match, can you actually go into that thinking it's bonus, no expectation, things like that given that opportunity?
PETRA KVITOVA: Yes, I think so.  I hope so, actually.  That's what I did today actually, as well.  I think this kind of a little bit clean mind and everything about is just helping me.
So I think if you're more relaxed in the court it's probably better you play.  So I will try to do the same as today and we will see, but of course it's great to be in the second week for the second time in my career in US Open.
It's kind of nice thing, for sure.  I will do my best to be through to the next round.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT