DONGFENG MOTOR WUHAN OPEN
September 30, 2015
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.  
   
 Q. So in the match you were leading in the beginning, but then your opponent won. Is it because of some physical reasons? And what are your plans now?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, I mean, I was leading 4‑Love in the first set. Unfortunately I didn't make it through.   
I play really well from the beginning of the first set. I don't know. I just think I really missed few easy points and I just think that she felt the chance and she took it a little bit. I played really badly in the tiebreak.   
Yeah, I think, I mean, she played really good. It was just difficult for me to handle it somehow today.   
And my plan is to fly to Beijing as soon as possible and to get ready for the tournament over there.   
   
 Q. How much do you think yesterday's match maybe influenced today's match? Did you feel fresh enough on the court?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I didn't, to be honest (smiling).   
But, I mean, from the beginning I felt quite okay. I had just really light warmup. I just save the energy for the match.   
Yeah, but when the match was little bit longer and the rallies took a while, I was struggling a little bit. I wasn't really in the good timing with the shots. I was still missing little bit. Few centimeters, but it's always big difference.   
I mean, I'm happy I won yesterday, for sure. That's great. I was ready to fight today. But she was just better. She didn't really give me anything for free.   
   
 Q. When your coach is coming to the chair to talk to you, you have many exchanges. What can he tell you in these moments to bring you back into the match?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I think he wasn't really happy with the game that I played. Yeah, I was kind of lost somewhere until 4‑All, then I was trying to hit it again, be as a part of the game.   
But that's what he was trying to tell me. Unfortunately I think my mind was tired, as well, so I didn't really took it that much as he want probably. Me, too, of course.   
But, yeah, I mean, it's just one of the bad matches. But I'm still okay and going forward for Beijing.   
   
 Q. Speaking of David, how has your coaching relationship with him changed over time? Obviously he's coached you for a very long time. Is it more equal now than maybe before in terms of your dynamic?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, I think so. I think we are kind of on the level where we really have to communicate more than from the beginning. I think I'm started with him when I was 19, so I was kind of baby as a tennis player. He had experiences. He almost was kind of the guy who showed me everything.   
Now, of course, it's little bit changed. I'm getting older. I'm adult. I have mine things as well. We have to really find a good balance and good communication on the court and off the court, as well.   
I'm glad because, you know, when the baby is growing, sometimes you have different opinions on lot of things. But we don't, so that's why we are still together probably.  
   
 Q. From 19 until now, what's the biggest thing that he's been able to do for you as a coach?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I think it's kind of different time of periods, it's little bit different things. I mean, from the beginning he was trying to do a little bit more with the techniques. Now it's more of the tactics and mental side.   
I mean, I really can't say only one thing which is like the biggest one. But I think that he trying to get the tactics a lot and of course use it in the practice. That's what he does.   
He (indiscernible) it a lot. Sometimes I see in the practices when he's talking a lot, and I find out that he really likes practices. That's his job probably. He said it, That's my job, that's why I like it, that's the practice, that's when I can teach you something. When you playing the matches, just the result of anything, I can't really do anything.   
Yeah, I think this kind of stuff.   
   
 Q. With Roberta, she obviously had the big win against Serena, now this win today against you. Is she one of those players on the tour that, when she's playing well, is kind of a nightmare for players like you and Serena that like to hit a big ball and try to be offensive?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I don't think that she's nightmare. I mean, she's playing differently. That's kind of one thing which we really probably don't like. The balls are coming a little bit slower and we have more time to think and to miss it (smiling).   
She's very good player with a good touch. She really can go for the net from the serve. She can return and go for the volley, as well. And it's kind of like to be ready for each shot.   
I mean, the forehand is beautiful and she really have a good placement. So that's kind of making run. And the slice is I just think the best on the tour. She can do whatever she wants with that. And dropshots, as well. It's kind of challenging.   
Yeah, I mean, I think she's playing with a lot of confidence right now after such a big win against Serena, playing the final. It's something which you never can buy it. You just have to enjoy the moment. I think she's really enjoying it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT