DONGFENG MOTOR WUHAN OPEN
September 28, 2015
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.  
   
 Q. How does it feel to be back in Wuhan and what have you been doing since the US Open?  
PETRA KVITOVA: It feels great to be back, for sure. I mean, of course, the new center court is built, so it's not the same center court as last year. But I practice on Court1, which was the center court last year. Was a really nice feelings to be back here again.   
This is such a nice facilities again. They really did a great job. They trying still be more, you know, improving and everything. So it's great.   
What I been doing? Resting a lot. I just had, like, week off probably. I practiced little bit. I was little bit sick, so it wasn't working well as I wanted, but that's okay. I'm used to it already (smiling).   
   
 Q. Are you able to practice more than you were in the US Open? Do you feel better physically?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Tough to say. I had, like, week of full practice before I came to Asia. It's tough to say how many hours I practiced, but it was very similar to practice when I find out I have mono. It was kind of similar.   
I ran the tests again to check how everything is going. It's on the good way, so it's getting better.   
   
 Q. When you say you're getting used to it, like getting sick, do you really get used to it or are you getting a bit tired of it?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I'm not tired of it. I mean, I was sick last year before I came to Wuhan. I'm kind of calm, relaxed before the tournament. Yeah, the cold, this is catching everywhere and everyone. It's not anything new, so...   
I think we have to handle tougher things than just the cold.   
   
 Q. It's a completely different situation, but Eugenie Bouchard hasn't played since the US Open. She says she's coming back, but then pulls out of tournaments. Is it tough when you have to completely stop and you say I need my time, or is it tempting to go and play still?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I think it's the case of the health. I think it's the most important thing what we can have.   
I wasn't in the same situation, for sure not. If the doctors told me I can't play because of the mono, I will stop my season and maybe get ready for the next one. So I totally understand Genie. I wish her well.  
   
 Q. You had the reunion with Li Na yesterday on court. You mentioned you haven't met her daughter yet. Did she share any photos with you?   
PETRA KVITOVA: I just saw the first picture which she took in the hospital, which was on the social media, as well. So that's what I saw.   
We were a little bit in the touch, but I didn't really see any other pictures. But it's fine. I'm looking forward to see the baby here on live.   
She is still the same. She is still happy and smiling and everything. I think the daughter will be very similar.   
   
 Q. Do you think you are too young to be an aunt?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I'm not too young to be aunt. I have two older brothers, so they have three kids. I'm already aunt.   
   
 Q. Do you want someday you can be called an Aunt Petra?  
PETRA KVITOVA: For Alisa?   
   
 Q. Yes.   
PETRA KVITOVA: I don't know. I'm not like family, so it's kind of tough to say. For sure I will be happy if I see her.   
   
 Q. You mentioned that you got some additional tests once you get back to the Czech Republic. Tell us more about that and your outlook on the rest of the season. Do you feel calmer going forward than maybe when you first got the diagnosis or...   
PETRA KVITOVA: I think that everything what was in the blood test was kind of good. The mono, it's little bit lower number, what is good. It's not the best, but it's still in the good way, as I say.   
I mean, of course it's still going to be dangerous if I really like doing the other things. But I think it's fine. Probably after one month or how many weeks I have it already, I know how to probably handle it, how to manage the schedule of the practices and everything.   
The rest of the season, tough to say. I will do my best to qualify for the Singapore, of course. Going to be nice if I qualify for the second time in Singapore.   
I mean, I still wanted to be well‑prepared for the next season, for sure. But we still have a Final of the Fed Cup in home. It's kind of challenging, as well.   
   
 Q. Last year you won Wuhan. You were in the final in Beijing. You seemed a little bit tired in the final. It was like 10 matches in 11 days. A tough schedule. Was that something you can expect this year?   
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I was kind of happy for my schedule last year. I won a tournament and played the final. It was a really good result for me.   
If it's the same this year as last year, I will not complaining at all. Of course, it was a little bit too much matches during two weeks. But on the other side, I think was great for me. I was happy.   
   
 Q. Because of last year's success in China, for sure you have wider support from the Chinese fans. This year probably going to be quite exciting and different from last year. Are you expecting to see the Chinese fans to cheer for you on the court this year?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I don't know. I mean, I think I have a lot of Chinese fans already. I mean, when I'm going to practice courts or that, it's kind of noisy where they are. It's nice to see them, for sure. It's nice how many nice messages I have on the social media from the Chinese fans as well.   
I know the support is here and they kind of like me because of Li Na, as well. It's nice and I will do my best to show what they wanted to see. Yeah, I hope that many of them will come for the match.   
   
 Q. I've never been to Fulnek, but I presume that China is very different from your hometown. Do you remember the first time that you came to China and what your thoughts or memories were of that trip?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I think was 2008 for the Olympic Games which played in Beijing. You know, was really funny because I didn't qualify for the singles, but I got a wild card for the doubles with Lucie Safarova. You should see that, we won one game (laughter). That was really kind of funny. That's what I remember from that.   
I didn't really feel like a part of Olympic Games. But I remember the Opening Ceremony, how sweaty I was. It was really nice. As an experience, it was great to see the other athletes and everything. I was just surprised how the stadium was built and everything. It was still big and I heard that the Chinese people can really do everything what they want. Like if it's rain, they can do with the clouds and everything, they going to stop the rain. It was kind of like from a different world, I can say.   
   
 Q. Other players have caught this illness through the years. Have you spoken to like Heather Watson or other players to know how they went through it?  
PETRA KVITOVA: No, no, I didn't.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT