WIMBLEDON
June 30, 2015
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







P. KVITOVA/K. Bertens
  6‑1, 6‑0

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.

Q.   That was you playing with nerves, yeah?
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yes (laughter). 
Actually, I will be quite happy if every nerves going to be like this.   So I'm happy I won it. 
For sure, it wasn't really easy, especially before the match when you never know how it's going to be.   I didn't play the match before.   I didn't really know what I should expect. 
I served very well, what is really important.   I'm glad how I played. 
Practices, you know, in the end of the last week was getting better, so that was a good sign. 

Q.   I think it was 35 minutes today.   Is that the fastest match you can remember playing?   I think it's the fastest on tour for five years. 
PETRA KVITOVA:   I don't know.   I never had a clock on my hand.   But I think, for sure, one of the fastest ones, yeah, for sure. 

Q.   When you finish a match so quickly like that, would you go and hit somewhere on the court today or not?
PETRA KVITOVA:   No, I'm fine (laughter). 
I'm glad how I played today.   I don't think I need any more, like, practice today.   I have a practice tomorrow.   I think it's just fine.   To relax again after the sickness I had, it's still in a good way.   So it's fine.

Q.   Is it almost embarrassing to win that quickly a match?
PETRA KVITOVA:   No, I don't think so.   I think was nice.   Unfortunately maybe for people was a little bit quicker.   My parents came.   The first 35 minutes, I have to say sorry to them. 
I think they are happy anyway (smiling). 

Q.   What is it that you like when you're staying at a home here?   What is it about staying at a home that you enjoy so much?
PETRA KVITOVA:   It's kind of tough to describe.   It's something like kind of feeling inside.   You know, I was really, like, nervous before.   But when I was stepping on the court, the people starting to clap kind of very nicely, I had a little goosebump.   It was very nice.   I had great memories from last year. 
When I start to play, I was kind of smashing the serves, as well, it was a good sign.   So I was little bit relaxed afterwards. 

Q.   What are your views on the fact there's a heat rule between the second and third sets for women and not for men, who obviously can play five sets?
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, I think we have this rule all year.   You should probably ask boys if they want it or not.   You should ask them. 

Q.   It does seem odd, doesn't it? 
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, I mean, of course we are used to kind of this rule.   This is not really typical, this weather.   I think if the guys want it, they should fight for it.

Q.   Equal prize money. 
PETRA KVITOVA:   Equal prize money you're asking? 

Q.   Yeah. 
PETRA KVITOVA:   I think it's time when the women's are going a little higher than before.   We are happy for it, for sure. 

Q.   You're not the only top player speaking about the first round as something you just want to survive.   You're defending champion.   You know you can play.   Why is it that the first round is such a nervous, tricky thing?
PETRA KVITOVA:   I think in the first round, every time you are like big, big favorite of the match.   That's something probably when you don't play match or you played before, doesn't matter.   You standing on the court.   It's a lot of expectation, not only for yourself, but the people around, the media and everything. 
It's just something you have to really handle it well.   Always struggling in the beginning of the tournaments.   The opponents are more relaxed every time you're playing someone in the top 10, for example. 
It's kind of tricky. 

Q.   Kiki can be a very dangerous opponent on occasion. 
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, for sure, she can.   She had a really big forehand, what I saw.   Sometime she hit really good serve, as well.   I was glad that I was able to return it and play some rallies afterwards.   I was trying to play little bit more to the backhand. 
But for sure she has a really good power.   Was kind of tough in a couple of points.   It was really tricky. 

Q.   You told us last year that the gardeners in the house you were staying wrote something to encourage you.   Did you get any messages this year?
PETRA KVITOVA:   Not yet.   Yeah, it was before the final when they signed the word.   But not this time.   I think just beginning of the tournament, so... 
I don't know what they are preparing. 

Q.   Do you know anything about your next opponent?   You haven't played her before. 
PETRA KVITOVA:   I know I'm playing Mara, but I didn't play her, I think. 

Q.   No. 
PETRA KVITOVA:   Good, thank you (smiling). 
For sure, she's kind of small, playing the flat shots, I think the grass can suit her, for sure. 

Q.   How long will your parents stay?   Is your mom or dad doing some cooking while you're at home?
PETRA KVITOVA:   They came yesterday afternoon.   They are staying in different place than me, so no cooking, nothing. 
They are leaving tomorrow morning.   So it's really just for the day and a half. 

Q.   There was a stunning photograph of you in an English Sunday paper at the weekend.   You were recreating the famous pose of Christine Keeler, which basically means you didn't have many clothes on.   Whose idea was that for that image?   I wouldn't necessarily have put Petra Kvitova together with that image.   How comfortable did you feel posing for it?
PETRA KVITOVA:   I was okay because I wasn't naked.   I had a dress.   I had photo shooting to get the images, not just this picture, but both of them.   This was just one of the poses.   Nothing really big deal. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT