CONNECTICUT OPEN
August 27, 2015
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 P. KVITOVA/A. Radwanska
  7‑5, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.  
   
 Q. What did you do at 5‑3 that got things back in your direction?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, you know, I was trying. When you are losing 5‑3, you just trying to do something probably a little bit different. Until this kind of time, I was really like risking too much, I think. I was really missing all those shots and I wasn't really in the good timing.   
I was trying maybe to get a little bit to the rally and be more patient to wait for some good chance to have some winner, maybe play a little bit longer rallies.   
That's what I did, and it was really paid off.   
   
 Q. How did you feel today after last night?  
PETRA KVITOVA: A little tired, yeah. Sleepy right now. But it's nighttime, so that's good.   
Yeah, but was okay. I think when you have kind of like the adrenaline when you are playing and everything, you are not really focusing how you feel, just be there for the points and for the match.   
So for me it's a good win, for sure. It's an unbelievably tough tournament here. The draw is really difficult. I'm happy that I won two matches already.   
   
 Q. Did you expect that at the beginning of the week when you came here, that you would play as well as you're playing?  
PETRA KVITOVA: You know, I was kind of mixing all the feelings. I was feeling good in the practices, but unfortunately I didn't play some matches more. And I know that always coming here, I play a little bit better than normally, than somewhere else. If I comparing to Cincinnati, it's a big difference.   
That's always nice to coming here. When you're coming somewhere where you really feel good, you have nice memories, it's always giving a little bit more confidence, so...   
I'm happy that I played how I played. The best is to win the last point, for sure.   
   
 Q. Her game is so different from others on tour. Is there anything you had to do differently to adjust to that?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, for sure. She's a smart player. She know where the ball will go probably before I know where it's going to be (smiling).   
She's very good mover actually. I think that the serve is kind of the weakness of her game. I was trying to take advantage from it, to be aggressive from the first kind of shot.   
Yeah, it's really tough to find a balance, to be aggressive but really not too much, not missing a lot of shots and points. That was from the beginning, I was trying to find the good balance probably.   
   
 Q. My question isn't related to the tournament. Czech Republic has three players in the top 10. What do you expect from the match with Romania in the beginning of 2016, or your thoughts about the Romanian team?  
PETRA KVITOVA: That's kind of long time to go still.   
For sure it's kind of tough draw for the first round. I mean, I know how the Romanian girls are very tough. Of course with their leader, Simona, it's never really easy to play there, as well. It's kind of challenging for us.   
It's a long time when we meet Romania. Yeah, we are playing kind of good tennis. All the Czech girls are in the top 10. But you never know how is it from the beginning of the year. For sure it's a difficult draw for us.   
But I think that, you know, we have a great team spirit, for sure, otherwise we didn't won the three titles already. But it's a kind of tough opponent, but we do our best as always.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT