ROGERS CUP
August 12, 2015
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 V. AZARENKA/P. Kvitova
  6‑2, 6‑3 
   
 Q. Petra, so thoughts after that match and how do you feel and how did you feel in the match?  
PETRA KVITOVA: It's kind of hard to describe. First of all, I'm kind of disappointed that I lost, of course. It wasn't really an easy match to play today as a first match. She played well. And I understand that I was able to play and I was able to stand there and play the match.  
So it's kind of two sides of the feelings right now.  
   
 Q. Were you able to like practice much before? What has your practice schedule been since you've been here in Toronto?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Actually, as my coach just told me, it was the longest time I spent on the courts than Wimbledon. So if I practice in Czech or here, I was just practicing like hour. Nothing really. More just once clay. So it's kind of weird. I wish I could practice more, but that's how it is right now.  
   
 Q. Did it sort of feel like a bigger occasion than it might because of that?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Not really. I think, you know, to play Vika is always great as a challenge and play her. And we didn't play since 2011. So it's a very long time. And I don't think that we are going to get like some easy players here in the tournament because of the draw and everything. But on that side for sure she's a tough opponent and she showed it today as well.  
   
 Q. Physically what were you expecting and how did your performance and how you felt physically compare to how you felt?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I didn't have any expectations. So for me, this is good. I finished the match. I'm still‑‑ I got to speak and sit. So that's really good. I'm a little bit sleepy, but that's fine.  
So from the time I'm okay, and for sure I will try to practice a little bit more and practice as a quality rather than the quantity. And I will see how it's going.  
   
 Q. Did you feel like that was the biggest factor for you in the match today, the physical‑‑  
PETRA KVITOVA: Not really. I don't think‑‑ I just wish to practice a little bit more to play kind of these players. Vika has to be a few more hours to put it on my belt. And to feel the shots a little bit more, you know. Practice makes you perfect. So that's how I didn't really practice.   
   
 Q. Petra, you haven't played her since 2011. Did it feel like 2011 again or have your games and your styles evolved since then to where it felt like a different type of match?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Not really. I don't feel like 2011 still. But it was nice to meet her again, for sure.  
I don't think that our games changed a lot. I think it's still, you know, the good shots stay there that's important. And I think that really she served well. She didn't miss so much. So that was quite tough for me today.  
   
 Q. And just generally I know it was windy out there tonight, but do you find the courts in Toronto faster or slower than Montreal?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I don't remember Montreal, but‑‑ well, Vika is playing kind of fast anyway, so it's really tough to say which is a little bit faster. But maybe it's Montreal a little bit. But I can't tell. Tough decision. Sorry.   
   
 Q. Petra, how are you approaching this part of the season now? Are you just kind of looking for matches and to get back into shape or do you actually like want to go for the US Open title and things like that?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I don't know. I'm taking just day by day, match by match. And obviously how everything is going, as I said, I'm really happy that I'm here and I'm able to play. So that's important.   
And I really don't put any like extra pressure on myself or something. So I really can't say how is my plan right now.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT