WIMBLEDON
July 4, 2015
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. JANKOVIC/P. Kvitova
  3‑6, 7‑5, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.  
   
 Q.   You looked in control of that match for a set and a half, then it turned.   How do you explain what happened?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Tough to explain.   If I know what happened, I going to tell you.   
But really I'm not really sure what happened out there.   I was kind of up in the second set.   Suddenly I felt like she's, you know, coming back, playing a little bit aggressive.   
Suddenly from my side, I didn't have answer for it.   My serve didn't help me at all this time, as well.   I was really struggling with each shot which I played.   
   
 Q.   There was a point towards the end of the third set when you were in a winning position in the rally, but you decided to challenge.   It was just in.   Is that the kind of point you'll think about later?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I took a challenge because I really thought it was out.   Otherwise I'm not doing it during the point.   
That surprised me unfortunately in a bad way.   For sure probably it was there, but I was still trying.   It was still 30‑All and was a good chance to, you know, have a break.   But unfortunately she served well and I didn't make it.   
I still have a chance then to hold my serve for 5‑All.   Yeah, I didn't make it.   Just few points, unfortunately.   
   
 Q.   How well she started playing in the second half of the match, do you think you were unprepared for that because how easy the first two matches were for you?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   No, I don't think so.   I was really prepared for it.   I mean, from the beginning of the match I felt like it's on the good way and I was really, you know, feeling the shots pretty well and everything.   
Suddenly I was just missing it.   So it was really unusual probably or weird.   I can't really explain how.   But it is how it is.   I think that she was really trying to go for it and trying a little bit playing more aggressively.   
And she has really great serve, so it was tough to return and break her in the second half of the match.   But I was still waiting for some chance, and didn't come unfortunately.  
   
 Q.   Were you surprised by how well she served?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I knew that she's serving well.   I saw the percentage and the aces which she made in the first two matches.   
But still I think that she put a lot of percentage of the first serve in.   
   
 Q.   When you went off court after the second set, what were you telling yourself?   How do you try to motivate yourself to come back out on court in the third set?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I was trying to calm down a little bit.   I was changing my clothes.   Probably that's it.   I mean, I was trying, you know, to think kind of positively.   Still was unpredictable a third set.   It's always a big fight during this kind of match.   She's a big player, which she showed today.   
I was really trying, but unfortunately bad moments today.   
   
 Q.   Must be tough so soon after losing, but can you tell us a little bit about what it's meant to have been a Wimbledon champion for the last year and how it feels to lose it?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I probably said it many times what is to be champion of Wimbledon.   Something really special.   That's why I'm playing tennis.   I was the lucky to win it here.   
So it was not great to lose in the third round.   Not to be in the second week of the favorite tournament for me is really sad.   I don't really know what I can say.   That's it.   
   
 Q.   Have you any plan of what you do now?   I presume you expected to be here all next week.   
PETRA KVITOVA:   I'm sorry.   I just finished the match.   I didn't really think about it.   
   
 Q.   Earlier in the week you spoke about when you first won Wimbledon, what it was like to come back, all the pressures at that time.   What has it been like for you this time as the defending champion and what do you think you'll take from this particular experience?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I think this year was little bit better for me to handle the pressure and everything what was around.   But I don't think that I lost today because I was defending champion from last year.   I don't think is really the thing why.   
I think that she really played a good match.   Looked a little bit on the other side when I played Venus last year, when I was the worst player in the first two sets, then I won.   This time just turn the other side for her, yeah.   
   
 Q.   Do you expect Serena to win this now?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I don't know.   I did not see the matches today.   I heard it was a great fight from both of them.   I think that Serena sometimes needs kind of this fight during the tournament.   So she's still big favorite, I think.   
   
 Q.   Did you feel unable to play as well as you wanted to in the third set?   Were you tired or feeling weak at all?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Uhm, I didn't feel 100%, for sure.   I mean, I was still kind of struggling a little bit with the movement.   I was still missing few centimeters to miss the shots.   The timing really wasn't the best.   
For sure I wish to feel better.   But still doesn't really, you know, matter if I going to win or not if I'm feeling better.   This is how it is.   
I think that she really did what she needs at the time.   
   
 Q.   A match where you played pretty well.   Is it tough to get over a match like that, that you played well but ended up losing?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   It's kind of tricky question, you know, to lost when you're playing well or to lost when you're playing really badly.   
Maybe this is tougher for sure, in kind of this tournament what is special for me.   It's not easy to go away.   I think it's going to take me few days, few weeks maybe.   
But that's how it is.   It's tennis.   I'm still human.   I'm not a robot.   But I wishing better result for sure.   
   
 Q.   When you say you weren't feeling 100%, is it because of lack of preparation you had with the sickness or nothing to do with it?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I don't know.   I was feeling well.   I wasn't really having cold or cough or something.   From this side, I was okay.   
But, yeah, that's how it is.   I mean, in the second round I didn't feel the best, as well, but I was still able to handle it somehow.   Today was a little bit better opponent on the other side and she just took the chance.   
   
 Q.   You go to the U.S. now, not your favorite part of the year.   What are you hoping happens there?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, it's coming soon.   But probably I should, you know, be positive and think little bit better about the U.S.   I think I can play on the hard courts, for sure.   I just, you know, need some of the practices and matches again and everything, just be able to, you know, feel well in the US Open, which I really didn't before.   
   
 Q.   You said you'll need some time to get over this and to move on.   What exactly do you do to put these sorts of results behind you?   
PETRA KVITOVA:   First of all, I'm coming home to see my family and friends.   But I think still is going to be there and just probably need some time.   It's really nothing what's can beat it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT