WIMBLEDON
July 2, 2015
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 P. KVITOVA/K. Nara
  6‑2, 6‑0 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.  
   
 Q.   Another quick win today.   How long do you think it's going to take you to get deep into a match this year?   You seem to be very much at ease out there.   
PETRA KVITOVA:   It wasn't really easy.   I mean, of course, the score look very easy.   But few games which we play was really close.   
I'm just glad that I won.   That's important, you know, counting is the last point.   I still have a lot of space where I can improve for the next match.   That's a good sign, as well.   
Of course, the next match will be tough again, and tougher and tougher, if I'm going to stay in the tournament.   I have to be prepared for everything.  
   
 Q.   What do you have to improve on?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   From today's match, for example, the returns I can still improve it.   Kind of reactions on the court, as well.   
   
 Q.   There's a lot of pressure that comes with defending a title.   You talked about you would be nervous for your first‑round match, coming back to play again.   On the surface it looks like it couldn't have gone better.   Are you surprised with how your title defense has started?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Surprised?   I'm very pleased how is everything going so far.   I can't really say surprised.   I think I'm kind of handling it better than 2012 when I was defending my first title.   
I'm nervous before each match when I'm going to play here, especially first round.   But it was there today, so...   
Every match I'm going to play is great.   I'm trying really enjoy it.   Of course, playing here on the grass which really suits my game.   I really love to play here.   It's very nice feeling.   
   
 Q.   How easy is it to take things one match at a time at a tournament that you've had so much success in?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   It is just how it is.   I can't really think too far ahead.   But still be focusing for the next match what is really important, you know.   I don't like to look into draw too far as well.   
For me, it's really important to go day by day and match by match.   
   
 Q.   Have you ever not done that and kind of looked far ahead?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   You know, sometimes when I was kind of young, beginning on this kind of tour, playing these Grand Slams, sometimes I looked a little bit far.   It wasn't really the best option.   So from the time, I kind of not doing it and always asking my coach who I'm playing next round.   
   
 Q.   Jelena just finished her match.   She'll be your next opponent.   What are your thoughts on her game and the challenge of facing her?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   It's always big challenge to face her.   Former No.1 player.   It's always little bit special.   Always she has sort of weapon to play.   Especially her backhand, it's really great.   I played her in Rome.   I never played her on grass.   It's really different.   
But I'm going to try the best playing the same way as I normally playing.  
   
 Q.   What are your observations of the way she's endured throughout her career?   What has she shown you with the way she's stuck with it and sustained such a level of excellence?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, I think it's a big thing.   I mean, for her when she's playing so well all the years, I think two years ago, she qualified for the Championships, as well.   Was really in the great form.   It's just nice to still see her around.   She's kind of nice person, always smiling.   It's nice to see her in the locker room, as well.  
   
 Q.   When you win so quickly each time, what do you do with the extra spare time?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I can do some media, as well, if I have a time.   And, you know, I'm trying to relax a little bit, of course.   I don't want to waste any time to doing something which is taking so much energy of me.   
I'm lying in the bed, for example, or reading the book, something like that.   
   
 Q.   What are you reading?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I just started to read the John Krieg, but I just started so I'm not sure how it's going to be.  
   
 Q.   Last year here you had to play Lucie and Barbora and another Czech player.   How hard is it to play someone you're so close with and have so much at stake when the person across the net from you is someone you care about?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, it wasn't really easy tournament last year when I met three Czech girls in the journey.   It wasn't really easy.   I played Barbora.   She had a great performance last year.   She beat Li Na.   She is a great player and friend as well.   We are pretty close from the Fed Cups, as well.   We have fun every time we are together.   
It is just how it is.   I think when you are on the court, you just have to focusing on the game.   Of course, you are little bit trying not to be that much emotional as normally.   When it's close, you have to.   
It's just about the tennis that moment.   
   
 Q.   There's been a lot of talk about how much pressure there is on Serena coming here.   Do you think that takes pressure off some of the other top women or is the pressure on them to actually stop Serena winning?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I don't know.   I still feel pressure.   It really don't take it away from myself.   I think that Serena has 20 Grand Slams already.   She handle it so well if she still, you know, in the top form and playing so well.   
I think that she really likes to play here, as well, and she loves grass, as well.   I think she's really great player, not only here, of course, but she's going for it.   I don't know.   You should ask her if she has too much pressure on herself.  
   
 Q.   Would you prefer to avoid Serena or play Serena here if you were to win?   Would it make it more special if you got to face her and beat her as one of your scalps for the title or is she better to avoid?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I don't really care.   If I'm in the final, I don't care who I'm going to play.   Really, I don't have any special wish, no.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT