QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 25, 2015
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







P. KVITOVA/J. Jankovic
  6‑1, 1‑1

Q.   How was the match?   How do you describe it?
PETRA KVITOVA:   You know, always it's not very nice to see someone who is retiring from the match.   Always with Jelena we have great matches.   I lost to her last year here in quarterfinals, so I was expecting for a tough match which showed actually on the court.   And the game I think was pretty high level. 
It's tough to describe something, what's happened during the match, but I wondered how it is.   But I feel sorry for Jelena for sure.   I hope that she going to be good and she can be able to compete again.

Q.   You are likely to have a much tougher match now next round.   Would you have preferred to have a full match so you've got some match play under your belt before it gets to what will be Thursday now and you've only been on court for a half hour or so?
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, you're asking if I don't want a buy and play the match or what? 

Q.   No, just that your next match is likely to be very tough and you haven't had much match play up until now.   Now with the retirement... 
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, I mean, I think if you're asking the other players who doesn't a buy, they are going to be happy to have it.   So I am happy that I'm in the quarterfinals for sure.   It doesn't matter how.   Of course the match will be tough for sure.   I'm not sure who I'm going to play yet.   But I don't think it's really about the matches right now. 
In the beginning of the season, I played two in Dubai and I'm not feeling that I need more matches right now.   I just think that it's how it is and I feel quite okay on the court.   And how I said, the first set was good for my side and I felt comfy and in good form. 

Q.   You might play Karolina in the quarterfinals.   What do you actually think of her?   She played final last tournament in Dubai.   Do you see her competing for Slams in the future?
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, I think so.   I mean, she has incredible year this year from the beginning.   We play the final in Sydney, so I know how great she's playing.   She had great season last year when she won some titles.   Yeah, she just showed how good she can be as a player when she was in the final in Dubai.   Of course I think that's she playing a lot of matches in a couple weeks, so I think that she's going to be a little bit tired.   Of course, she has a good game, not that physically tough for her.   She has a good serve and I think she's able to still play great level as she did before. 
So, yeah, I don't know who I'm going to play, but I'm looking forward anyway. 

Q.   Non‑tennis question.   A lot of the players here are really popular on social media, yourself included.   What sort of role does having a presence on Twitter mean for you?   Is it important to you?   Is it something that you look at regularly and maintain?
PETRA KVITOVA:   You know, I remember when ‑‑ I'm not sure, it was before my first Wimbledon title, they told me I should have a Facebook and I didn't want it.   I just didn't want to spend time on it and upload all the pictures and having to Tweet and everything. 
So I start with the Facebook but it wasn't enough, I thin, so I had to move up and move forward with the Twitter.   Actually I'm used to it in the past few years.   I'm quite glad that I have it.   And of course, it's a connection with the fans.   And it's important, that's why I have it.   Otherwise I'm not sure if I'm really producing some more pictures and Tweets.   But this is how it is.   And I think in modern life, what we are all living, it's important and especially as tennis player we need a connection with them. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT