ROLAND GARROS
May 22, 2015
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   Q.  You're playing Erakovic here for the second straight year.  Tough one for you.  Can you talk about playing her first up?  PETRA KVITOVA: Yes, as I saw the draw it came to my mind I played her last year in the second round.  It was not for the first time we played.  In Cincinnati I think before. I know how she can be dangerous.  I think she's playing a little bit different style, which is a lot of slice and dropshots and really big forehand and great serve, actually. So of course first round it's always very tricky.  I have to be ready for everything and, you know, see what's going to happen.  Every shot is going to be different.  That's probably what I know now.   Q.  The win in Madrid, does that have any impact for you here?  Do you feel any different this year coming into Roland Garros?  PETRA KVITOVA: For sure I had a great run in Madrid.  Few good wins in Rome.  I think for me it's good for the confidence a little bit.  And, you know, after the time off, I need some matches.  I'm really appreciate for this one. I don't feel differently.  If you're asking if I'm feeling as a favorite, I'm not feeling as a favorite.  (Smiling.)  One of them as well not. You know, I lost in the third round last year, so I would like be very happy if I can reach the third round and be in the second week for this year. I find out in Madrid that I can play well on the clay, that can be good surface for me.  I would like to show you here.  (Smiling.)   Q.  With the defense of Wimbledon just around the corner now, does it kind of make this really hard?  Because we know how much you want to win that title again.  It's only a few weeks away.  Is it hard to keep the focus 100% here?  PETRA KVITOVA: No, not really, actually.  I mean, of course I'm looking forward to be back in Wimbledon, but now it's this kind of big thing over here. So I would like to -- I don't really have any thoughts on the Wimbledon.  I just have to choose the house there, but that's it.  I got the grass shoes yesterday.  That's it.  I'm just thinking about how now I'm here and I would like to do good on the clay.   Q.  You have won Madrid twice; made the semifinals here.  You just said that you're still I think trying to believe that you can win on clay.  How do you explain that?  Do you believe you can win on this surface?  PETRA KVITOVA: I think as Madrid showed me this time, I think I can play and win against the great players as Serena is, for sure.  So this is something special. In the beginning of the clay season I never really feel it straightaway as, for example, on the grass.  So for me it's always taking some time, some practices, few days to get, you know, used to and the sliding and the movement. It's different.  I believe I can win, but I can't say that I'm believing to win Roland Garros this time.  I mean, of course I'm not the person who are like setting these big goals. I'm more person who are stepping one step ahead and playing match by match.  That's what I gonna do here.   Q.  How would you compare your confidence playing at the French Open as compared to the US Open?  PETRA KVITOVA: Wow.  I think I'm more confident here.  (Smiling.)   Q.  How do you prepare?  Do you prepare differently when you play Serena compared to the other players?  How do you prepare before playing her?  PETRA KVITOVA: No, not really, actually.  I mean, I know how she's playing.  I know what she likes, that she has a big serve, and kind of these things. So I'm preparing the same as for the other players.  Nothing really special.   Q.  You mentioned you had the break earlier in the year just to give your some body recuperation, et cetera.  How do you feel that's helped you ahead of the second Grand Slam?  PETRA KVITOVA: I hope it's helped me.  We gonna see how this time, but I feel much better now than before I took the time off. I'm really happy I made the decision and have time off.  I really needed it as my mind, as my body.  It was really nice one month off.  It was really tough to get back, of course, you know, when you have a holidays to coming back to do work. But I'm happy now, and I'm really glad that I'm able to compete again and feeling the feelings, the nice feelings about the tennis again.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT