AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 22, 2015
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  P. KVITOVA/M. Barthel6-2, 6-4An interview with:PETRA KVITOVATHE MODERATOR: Questions, please.Q. Do you recall playing ever a service game that lasted that long?PETRA KVITOVA: No.  I was expecting more aces in the last game (smiling).  Yeah, wasn't best start in the game.  It's very tricky, 5-4, serving for the match.  I'm glad that I took it well, that I did two good aces.  Of course, like I knew that she will go for it and she will never really give me something easy.  So it was difficult.Q. After that long service game, you obviously didn't get to sit down, had to play the return game.  You continued to keep chasing down balls corner to corner, didn't look entirely fatigued.PETRA KVITOVA: Fitness (laughter).Q. Did Alex tell you something different?PETRA KVITOVA: He did.Q. Are you feeling the effects of his work?PETRA KVITOVA: I think it was quite warm today and I think I handled quite well.  I'm not sure if I can handle it like, for example, if it's last year or two years ago.  I'm glad everything went how was it.  Yeah, it was very difficult game to stay in the set without a break.  Of course, it was always tough to breathe a little bit when it's really warm.  I felt little bit tired after this game.  But still was good because I had this time during the off-season many times, so I knew I could still play.  Of course, it's not that easy, it's not that perfect, the placement, everything.  But, yeah, I won in the end.  That's good.Q. You had such an epic battle with Venus at Wimbledon last year.  What makes her so tough as an opponent at her age still?PETRA KVITOVA: You know, I think that she's playing still because she really love it.  I think that she's really true champion, otherwise she's not playing probably.  She's still coming up.  She's very dangerous player, I have to say.  Of course, she has a big serve.  She has a very good confidence still.  I think she really believe that she can play good tennis, what she is doing actually.  So that's why.Q. What about Madison, the ensuing battle with her?  You played her once.  She's improved.PETRA KVITOVA: For sure, she's better player than she was when I played her in Tokyo.  It's different surface, different condition for sure.  I know she has a big serve.  Is going to be really aggressive from her.  That's what I have to be there and stay.  Maybe similar with Venus, you know, very similar game.  So, yeah, I need to serve well and try to return her serve.Q. When the conditions are warm and humid like this, do you find how maybe you don't panic or worry as much now as years past?PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, for sure.  Even yesterday when I knew today would be warmer than yesterday, I knew that David was little bit worried about.  Me, too, of course.  I did not say it.  But somewhere in myself was there.  But I knew that I'm like prepared better than the years before, I can handle it better.  In the end when you are sweaty and the wind is there, it's not that bad than when you are sitting on the bench.  It was good.Q. Do you feel better prepared because of the work you did in the off-season?PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, for sure.  I mean, it was the work in off-season for sure.Q. How different is Alex's approach, given he's a physio as well as a fitness trainer?  Does it feel very different to you?PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, I think so.  It's my first time actually to have this combo.  You know, for example, when we start preparation, the first three, four days was very, very tough.  I felt everything.  I couldn't really walk.  Was funny to see me probably.  But, you know, I think that every day when he did the treatments, I could handle it more and more practices probably, and tougher workout.  I think that's help me to do more probably that I could do without the physio.Q. Has your routine between matches here changed?PETRA KVITOVA: Not really.  Just, you know, the treatment is every day.  I'm getting used to it already for past two months.  But otherwise, what is mean like with the tennis-wise, something like that, it's the same.Q. Do you feel confidence comes with feeling really comfortable with all of that?PETRA KVITOVA: Well, yeah, I feel well.  It was better today than the first round, for sure.  That's give me little bit of confident again.  But, of course, the first rounds always are difficult.  I'm expecting very tough match the next one.Q. You tweeted a picture of a lucky card.  How much did that help you?PETRA KVITOVA: I don't know.  Sometimes I'm making fun of myself (laughter).Q. Do you remember the first time you ever saw the Australian Open?  Could you watch it back home?PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, I could actually.  I remember when I was kid, I didn't sleep really well.  I wake up and sit in the living room and turn on the TV and I was watching it.  The year, I can't really remember.  I wasn't really kid who is watching tennis too much in the TV.  I prefer to play than to watch.  But during the night when I couldn't sleep, I turn it on.  Yeah, it was nice to see.  I remember Davenport when she played, something like those.Q. What did it seem like to you when you watched it on TV?PETRA KVITOVA: I don't really remember.  I really don't know actually.  When I like wake up in the night, normal people are trying to fall asleep again.  But I didn't.  I went to living room and watched the TV.  For sure it was exciting to me to watch the game.Q. Have you done much sight-seeing here, hugging Australian animals, all that?PETRA KVITOVA: Not yet.  Sorry (laughter).Q. Any plans to?PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, I hope I will.  Of course, tennis is in the first place now.  If I have a time, maybe I will go.Q. Do you ever walk from the hotel to the tournament or you always take a car?PETRA KVITOVA: Like here?Q. Yes.PETRA KVITOVA: You know, few times we stayed in the apartments on the Flinders Street.  It was pretty close.  So I think I took a walk.  But not every day.Q. Do you do that now?PETRA KVITOVA: No.  We are staying little bit far away.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT