AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 20, 2015
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  P. KVITOVA/R. Hogenkamp6-1, 6-4An interview with:PETRA KVITOVATHE MODERATOR: Questions, please.Q. You were made to work in the second set, but good match.PETRA KVITOVA: I had to.  When I wanted to win, I had to work a little bit.  Yeah, I mean, I start pretty well.  Serving was great.  Really I took control after the first set.  But unfortunately in the second set, when I had a break, I didn't really serve as good as I probably needed.  She really came back.  I didn't play as aggressively as I did in the first set.  That's why probably I made a little bit of troubles in the second.  But I'm glad I won.Q. Do you feel you completely banished the memories from last year?PETRA KVITOVA: No.  Hopefully now yes.  But during the match and during the morning and waiting time, it wasn't really easy for me to handle it.  So I'm glad that I did better than the last year.  Of course, I mean, the nerves was there.  It was really difficult to handle it.  During all match, I was still feeling the tightness and the legs were suddenly so heavy and I couldn't really move.  It was difficult, but I'm glad I did it.  That's important.Q. With all the seeds yesterday that lost, does that also play with the mind?PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, for sure.  I saw yesterday many of us seeded players, we went out.  Of course, it's stay in your mind and it's always difficult.  I know how is it.  I lost first round last year.  I really know how the girls are feeling, so it's not easy.  Yeah, that's the sport.Q. Does having interests outside of tennis, being a well-rounded person, is that something that helps you succeed on the court or it doesn't matter?PETRA KVITOVA: Well, of course, it's more things that can help you.  Of course, when the practices are going well, of course it's much better.  I played good matches.  That's always helping.  Of course, the atmosphere in our team, it's always really great to have it.  I'm glad that I have great guys around me.Q. Caroline Wozniacki and Victoria Azarenka have to play each other in the second round.  How hard is it when the draw aligns like that?  Is that something you look forward to?PETRA KVITOVA: I had this in third round at Wimbledon when I played Venus.  Of course, third round, it's difficult to play Venus, former champion there.  Was really tough match.  I was really nervous before it.  I knew it's going to be really tough, tough, tough match.  Same as Caroline with Vika.  But it's the draw.  Of course, when you're not seeded, it's difficult.  Some of us should play her.Q. But after that win over Venus, did you feel like your confidence went up?PETRA KVITOVA: I felt much better after that, for sure.  I was more relaxed.  Actually when I played Venus, I felt that I'm the worst player on the court in the first two sets.  I felt better in the tiebreak in the second.  Then I was still waiting for the chance, which came.  So that was really nice.  So after this match, when you have to fight, really believe in yourself, when you're not playing great, and still win, it's always important.  That's how it is.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT