DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 17, 2015
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 P. KVITOVA/E. Svitolina
  2‑6, 6‑3, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   You said it was going to be a tough match and it was.   What did she do in the first set that troubled you, and how did you turn it around?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I'm not sure where I was in the first set.   I don't think I was on the court.   
But that happens sometimes.   I think I was too hectic.   I really wanted to play aggressively and I made a lot of mistakes.   Very easy balls I just give it for free.  
That was something what I didn't want it, of course, but of course in the other side I didn't want to play just, you know, just a small rallies with nothing, no power and something like that.  
So it was tough in the end, you know, set everything to be still on the ball but not play that much aggressive but still play aggressive.  
Yeah, it was tough.   I knew it was going to be tough.   I lost her in Cincinnati.   Then was good match in Wuhan, but still I knew it's going to be tough and was.  
   
 Q.   What's it going to be against Carla?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   How I said on the court already.   I lost her here last year in three sets.   We play many times already.   I know that she's very good player.   I need to be aggressive again.   Hopefully not as much as today in the first set.  
I knew that she's ‑‑I know that she's in very good form because she plays final in Antwerp.   She always likes to play in the hardcourts, especially in the fast ones.   It's going to be tough, as always.   
   
 Q.   Court 1.   Does it make a difference for you that today you played on center; tomorrow it's on another court?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I'm fine.   I'm not really thinking about that.   I don't know what time I'm playing, anyway.   
   
 Q.   Third match.   
PETRA KVITOVA:   Third?   Okay.   Thank you.   (Smiling.)   
   
 Q.   Did you feel in the first set that maybe you were trying to rush, like rush really good points?   Then obviously in the second and third it was maybe more...   
PETRA KVITOVA:   I'm not sure if I rushed, but for sure I wanted to play how I said, very aggressively, and I made a lot of mistakes.   That means maybe I did rush.   I wanted to play quickly, and that's everything connecting.   
Actually, when my coach came, he told me the same.   You know, when you say it, it's much more easier than to do it.   It took me some time to make it.   I had really tough times on my serve when she could break me, and it could be different story.   
But I'm glad that I kept it, and I'm in the next round and I will try to play better again.  
   
 Q.   You mentioned your match with Carla last year.   It was 7‑6 in the third.   It was really tight.   Does any of the stuff creep in your mind when you find yourself in an opening match here in a three‑setter?   
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, sometimes I have these bad memories.   You know, last year I played really great.   I was leading 4‑1 in the second set and was nearly done, and suddenly, you know, suddenly I wake up and I'm losing in the third set, so it's nothing really nice to think about.  
I think it was our last match of, as a last meeting.   Yeah, I didn't want to lose my first match here, for sure.   I want to be better.   That's finally I made it, and we see.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT