QATAR TOTAL OPEN
March 6, 2021
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  P. KVITOVA/G. Muguruza
 6-2, 6-1
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. Congratulations on your victory tonight.  How did tonight's title victory compare to your first one there in Doha in 2018?
 PETRA KVITOVA:   It is different, for sure.  I mean, that year it was very tiring.  I was very exhausted.  I was coming from St. Petersburg playing the Fed Cup, playing Doha, and I remember the semifinal and final was just unbelievably tough.
 I played pretty long, beating Caroline in the third set and same, Garbine in the final.  This one is a little bit different, I would say, but I'm still tired, of course.
 But it feels different, because today the conditions were very, very tough compared to that year I didn't find it that windy, so it was more smoother, I would say.
 Well, of course the happiness is still the same (smiling).
 Q. I noticed especially seeing you and Garbine share a really nice embrace at the end of the match.  Seemed like you have developed not only a great rivalry with her, but it seems like there is a lot of mutual respect between the two of you.  What do you think brings out the best in your tennis against her and your respect for her, as well?
 PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, of course she's a champion.  She is a two-time Grand Slam champion, World No. 1, former.  And definitely she deserve the respect.  Even she couldn't win it, she is big player and big champion, anyway.
 That's how it is.  We met many times already.  I think we know each other pretty long from the tour, and it's just very natural.  So I'm really glad how the relationship is and that we, you know, showing the respect to each other and that we had another great final and great match again.
 Q. Many congratulations.  A great victory.  I suppose when you won that first set, did you feel comfortable?  Did you feel at ease going into that second set?  Was there an awful lot of the burden and maybe pressure taken off?  Were you sort of relaxed going into that second set after claiming the first set?
 PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, I don't think so.  I mean, yeah, the beginning of the first set were really tight, and especially those three games it was up and down.  When I took her serve it felt better, of course, and I felt more relaxed.
 Beginning of the second set I didn't feel the same way.  I lost my serve quite quickly, and it was just about, you know, getting on the board again.  And to break her in the second game of the second set was really the key probably.
 And since then I think I just find the rhythm and I was just, you know, putting lot of balls back to the court and put her under the pressure.
 Q. A great victory here in Doha, but looking ahead to the rest of the year, what's on the card for you?  Will you be coming to Wimbledon?  Is that one of the main events for you this year?
 PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, of course I'm coming.  There is no doubt about it (smiling).  Actually I think I'm coming everywhere, so we will see.
 But my next step is Dubai and Miami, of course.  Yeah, Wimbledon, it will be for sure in the schedule.
 Q. Congratulations.  Well done.  I wanted to ask you how you felt about your evolution as a returner.  You had so much success returning today, and actually last season I think you ranked third in return games won.  That was the first time I saw you so high in that statistic.  Has it been an area of emphasis for you?  How do you feel you're returning these days?  How has that shot evolved for you on your return games?
 PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, yeah, definitely I returned very well, especially in the match against Anett when we lost so many serves.
 Yeah, that's why probably it's good that even I lost the serve I'm not (indiscernible), because I know that on the return I can play well, as well.  You know, yesterday/today was different conditions with the returning, as well, because it was so windy so we couldn't really go for aces from the serves.
 So, yeah, it's a little bit different, I would say.  But I think that overall in Doha I just felt well on the court.  It doesn't matter if it was the return.  I felt good in the rallies, as well, from the baseline.  That's probably the main important and overall I felt okay.
 Q. How does it feel just to be back and winning a title again?  It has been a long time and of course a lot of difficulty.  There weren't really many opportunities to win titles last year.  But emotionally, how does it feel for you to be back and holding that beautiful trophy next to you?
 PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, it feels great, for sure.  And it's beautiful trophy, as well.
 Yeah, I missed the title last year, but still, I think it was a good season for me overall.  I'm glad that I was able to make it this year already, and every title is great.
 Of course playing final, it's great and for me it's always the bonus.  But having the title and not have the title and lose in the final, it's very disappointing, I would say, and sad.  Yeah, that's how I don't feel right now.  Of course I feel happy, so that's nice.
 Q. I'm wondering, COVID aside, how has your love for the game changed over the last 10 years?
 PETRA KVITOVA:   Over 10 years, wow.  Well, I would say that I'm very happy because I still love tennis.  Even as up-and-downs, I still do feel it.  Since I been kid I was really enjoying to be on the court and just play.
 Of course the other things, like traveling and packing and something like this, it's not that fun (smiling), but tennis itself, it's just great sport and I love it.  I love when you are playing and fighting and trying to find, you know, the good tactics to win, that's probably the best.  That's what I really like.
 Q. When you were a little girl, did you think you'd be playing at 30?  Or did you have it in your mind, I can still play at 35 and 38, you know, like Serena?
 PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, to be honest, when I was a little bit younger, I would say around 21, 22, I was like, No, 30 and I'm stopping at 30.  You know, in two days I'm 31 and I'm still playing.  So I should really think about it (smiling).
 Q. Congratulations on the title.  Just wanted to talk about the match and the conditions today versus yesterday.  How much easier was it for you to play your best tennis without the swirling wind today?  Do you think playing a match like that yesterday is what allowed you to play so well from start to finish today?
 PETRA KVITOVA:   First of all, I think there was a little bit less windy, not much but a little bit less, which was of course much better for both of us.  I know that Garbine didn't play the semifinal yesterday, so for her it was something which I faced yesterday already, and it wasn't really easy.
 And mentally it was very tough yesterday, I would say.  This morning when I warm up, or afternoon, I felt, Oh, I can't do it anymore.  I mean, I had it yesterday, and I have to face it for another time now?
 So it was like mentally I was, like, so tired of it, of the wind.  But as I mentioned, it wasn't that bad and maybe that helped me for today's match, the experience from yesterday.
 Yeah, I think, you know, sometimes when you just play with the wind, you just really have to play a little bit more carefully, I would say.
 Q. I won't ask you to look back in the past 10 years but I will say for the past year now I think you're 26-8 overall, you have made a slam semifinal, slam quarterfinal, two Doha finals with the title here today.  You talk about not imagining playing at 30 years old.  Is it fair to say you're playing the best tennis of your career?  And obviously Happy Early Birthday to you.  What is leading you to play so well at this point of your career?
 PETRA KVITOVA:   Wow.  It's tough.  It's really tough to compare myself 10 years ago and now if I'm playing the best tennis.
 Of course when I was 21 I won Wimby.  24 I won Wimby.  It's tough to compare.  I mean, I'm different player and person, I would say.
 In that time when I was younger I felt like probably more fearless that I didn't really have anything to lose and I just smash it from everywhere.
 Now I think I'm more thinking about it, about the tactic as well, about the pressure as well, because the pressure is always there, every match it's there.  Sometimes it's tough to deal with, of course.
 Yeah, I think I'm a little bit different anyway, but I'm still able to win the title, so that's good (smiling).
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT