AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 24, 2020
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








P. KVITOVA/E. Alexandrova
6-1, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Another pretty straightforward win. Talk through the match.
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, luckily. I think anyway the key was the first two games, which I hold the serve after, I don't know, seven, eight minutes of it. Then I broke her. It was the nice beginning of me, for sure.
Since then, I felt good and I played pretty aggressive. I knew that I have to play like this, going through the first shots, which doesn't matter was after the serve or even the return. She likes to play the same game as me. I was just trying to be the first who putted the pressure on her.
Q. What does it feel like to be the calm within the storm? Everything else is exploding around you with Serena losing, Caroline retiring...
PETRA KVITOVA: I was kind of happy that I was the first to win, then Caroline lost and Serena lost. It was everything after me, so... (Smiling.)
Yeah, you know, that's the life. We are not robots. Everybody can lose. Tennis is very open. That's how it is.
Q. Could you hear the noise coming from Laver?
PETRA KVITOVA: No. I just saw a few birds flying there, but no noises (smiling).
Q. You hit 10 unforced errors in that match. First match and this match, which match were you playing better?
PETRA KVITOVA: It was kind of similar games, for sure, the first and third. Can't really say which one was better. It was kind of different conditions little bit playing Czech. Actually Ekaterina is speaking Czech. Practicing in Prague. It was kind of this as well.
Definitely those two was better than my second round, so yeah.
Q. You're set to face either Madison again, who is down a set right now, or Maria Sakkari. Obviously the match against Madison in Brisbane was tough, also the first time you had faced each other. Then Sakkari, what do you expect from that match?
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I played both of them. Last matchups I lost against them. Doesn't matter probably who I play. Just kind of try to have a good revenge anyway. It will be Grand Slam, so it will be little bit different.
But anyway, I'm happy to be in the second week after reaching the final last year. For me, it's really good thing to be in the second week, for sure.
I mean, of course, now every match is very tough. It doesn't really matter who I'm facing. I would just try to enjoy it and let's see.
Q. When you say Grand Slam is a little bit different, do you mean to say you can lift your game?
PETRA KVITOVA: I hope so, of course. I do hope so. I don't know, I mean, sometimes of course the pressure is there, so you can't really lift your game up as you probably wish for.
Like overall everybody, I think, is fighting little bit more than on the other tournaments.
Q. You haven't dropped a set in the first week. I believe that was a similar case last year here. It feels very businesslike this week. Maybe I'm wrong.
PETRA KVITOVA: You're always right, Courtney (laughter). It's like business, yes.
No, it's tough to compare, for sure. It's been a year since final last year. Sometimes you are just forgetting things, which of course is pretty normal.
So far I'm feeling good. That's important. My second match was really tough. I was pretty pleased that I find a way to win it anyway, even I didn't play well, or even the conditions were really difficult, even the opponent was very good.
That's really important for me get this kind of back on my game, as today I showed. It was important for me, as well. We'll see.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT