BNP PARIBAS WTA FINALS
October 21, 2014
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. RADWANSKA/P. Kvitova
  6‑2, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Was that just a bad day at the office for you? 
PETRA KVITOVA:   I think so, yeah.   I hope so actually.   It wasn't really my day today.   I made a lot of easy errors and Aga played well.   Aga played what she thought is going to be good for her.
Yeah, I mean, still tournament is going on and I still have two matches on. 

Q.   Long match before you guys, so did that wait have any affect on you?   What did you do to pass the time? 
PETRA KVITOVA:   I was watching that match actually when I was waiting.   Normally I'm sleeping in this time, so it's really difficult to play.
I felt a little bit tired all the match, so I didn't really have a good breathe.   But that's how it is.   Aga made me play more rallies than I probably want.
Yeah. 

Q.   You've had a lot of success against her before.   She seemed to be playing some of her best tennis.   Was there something different she was doing that threw you off than in past matches, do you think? 
PETRA KVITOVA:   Probably I didn't make that many errors that I did today for sure.   I think that she didn't play really something special.   She play solid from the baseline and she put all the balls back to the court and I just didn't really have timing for the ball.
Sometimes was so fast and so slow, so was really difficult for me to find the timing.   My serve was okay, but she return a lot of balls back, what is always difficult for me then play rally with her. 

Q.   You haven't had the chance to play many top‑10 players this year.   Is it difficult coming in first match at this tournament to go right up to that level? 
PETRA KVITOVA:   It is difficult, but it's same for all of us we are playing here.   It's not really as on the Grand Slam for example on the tournament that from the first match we are facing top‑10 player, of course.
That's what is special WTA Finals for us.   Everybody is fighting for that, to play and compare the game with the others. 

Q.   I think both you and Maria were probably expected to win today by the rankings.   With the underdogs winning both matches in the group today, does it change things going forward?   Shake it up a bit for you?
PETRA KVITOVA:   I don't know.   Did you ask Maria as well? 

Q.   Not yet, no. 
PETRA KVITOVA:   Okay.   No, I don't know.   Yeah, probably we are both favorite of the matches of course in our group.   That's what happens in tennis.   I know that Caro beat her in US Open. 
Yeah, I thought that I can beat Aga as well today, but everybody is thinking the same way anyway.   So it's really difficult to say. 

Q.   Before your match, the camera cut into kind of the player warmup area.   Do you know what I'm about to ask you? 
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah.   (Smiling.) 

Q.   Does David normally bounce a ball off your head before matches, or just today?
PETRA KVITOVA:   It was for the first time.

Q.   Maybe not again?
PETRA KVITOVA:   You saw that on the court then, so probably it's his fault then. 

Q.   In the match before you the players complained a bit about the lights.   Do you feel that the lights have been weird during the week in practice or today?
PETRA KVITOVA:   Uh‑uh.   I didn't find any trouble with the lights.   I saw the moment when the lights were a little bit crazy during that match, but we didn't have these problems.   I think when we served was pretty good and we didn't have any troubles. 

Q.   You're probably going to play Maria next.   Thoughts on that match? 
PETRA KVITOVA:   We played Beijing final couple of days ago and it was really good match from both of us.   Unfortunately I lost, so I will do my best to beat her this time, of course.
She's playing very aggressively as well, so we will see. 

Q.   Now that you've played a match on this centre court, how would you rate the speed?   Would you like it to be faster?   Slower?   Higher bouncing?   Lower bouncing?
PETRA KVITOVA:   I am preferring faster surface for sure.   This is not the fastest what I play on, but I think it was, you know, how I said, same for both of us as well.
Yeah, I prefer a little bit faster, but it's probably ‑‑ who knows, so...

Q.   Have you ever played on an indoor or any sort of court that was too fast?   You played on it and thought that was too fast?
PETRA KVITOVA:   Fed Cup.

Q.   Prague?
PETRA KVITOVA:   In Ostrava.   It was ice, so it was good.   It was against Italian, so it was helpful for us.

Q.   So you liked it?   You didn't think it was too fast for you?
PETRA KVITOVA:   I like it, yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT