BNP PARIBAS WTA FINALS
October 19, 2014
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  ANDREW KRASNY:   Ladies and gentlemen, Petra Kvitova. 

Q.   Do you like that this is an indoor tournament?   It wasn't always, but now it is.   Kind of one of the only big indoor tournaments left on the calendar.   How much do you enjoy that part of it, obviously knowing that you love the indoors?
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, I missed it so much.   It's finally time when I can play indoor this year.   Supposed to play in Paris but I had to withdraw that I was ill.
Yeah, I'm glad it's indoor of course.   I like to play there.   It's beautiful.   The center court is very nice.   It's purple, my favorite color. 
Yeah, I hope that the people will come and will support us.   I think we can really looking forward for the great matches here.

Q.   Last time I saw you you looked like you were about to fall asleep on the press conference table.   How do you feel now compared to at the China Open?
PETRA KVITOVA:   I was better after final.   (Laughter.)   I feel much better.   Thank you.   I had week off, so I tried to put my energy back.   I really needed.   I needed to withdraw from Moscow for my hamstring. 
I am 100% ready for the matches here.   I have to be anyway.   Probably have no chance to play with them.   But I'm looking forward.   Yeah, I think I'm much better and I'm sleeping during the night, so that's good now.   (Smiling.)

Q.   How easy is it to be living a normal life when you're at home?   Do you see your friends?   Do you have to deal with people approaching you in the street?   How did you deal with all that?
PETRA KVITOVA:   I prefer that for sure.   I like to be at home.   I like to see my family, my friends.   It's always nice.
I think, you know, when you are traveling and everything, I'm getting more energy when I'm seeing them and being in my apartment and sleep in my bed and watch the TV from the sofa.
That's where I'm taking the energy back.   I like it, really.   Maybe I'm enjoying more because I'm still away somewhere, so that's why it's more special for me then. 

Q.   You've obviously had a great year.   You've won a bunch of tournaments, and some big ones, but you haven't had that many chances to play other top 10 players the way the draws have worked out.   Did you feel that way during the year, that you haven't played against a lot of these other women at this tournament?   Will this be a big sort of change for you to be facing them right away, first match?
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yes, this is what is different.   Some tournaments, like if I can say Eastbourne, like in the second round we can really with great players and small draw.   Here of course from the first round we are facing top‑10 player.
It's not like often to play on the big tournaments.   I played only Bouchard in the final in Wimbledon and then Maria in Beijing.   I play probably only two, so that's weird.
But it's how it is.   I'm glad that I'm here, one of the top eight.   That's important.   Now we can see how is it going here. 

Q.   After you won Wimbledon the first time, obviously took you a while to get used to everything that came with it.   As a second‑time winner, how much different does it feel?
PETRA KVITOVA:   It is different.   I think that you can't really know what to expect from that.   Just the time show you what you have to do and change in your life probably.
I mean, I didn't want to change myself, but of course the things around me was different, so I need to handle it and try to do best what I can. 
The pressure was there of course on the court, off the court as well.   I thought that probably I need to win every match and every tournament I'm playing after that, so it's not really possible. 
Yeah, this time it's much more easier for me, if I can say that.   I know what I can expect and I know a little bit how to deal with that.   It's not really like the first time, so... 
I'm more relaxed and that's what I'm trying to do. 

Q.   Have you had a chance to hit on the center court here?   What is your take on the speed of the court? 
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, I had chance to hit there.   I think it's very similar if I'm comparing to the years in Istanbul.   I think the surface is very similar.   Maybe a little bit faster from the beginning, but not really big difference. 
I think the surface, you know, when you are playing longer on the court it's getting faster and faster.
So, yeah, I think it's okay.   I think that we can see some good rallies maybe as well.   (Smiling.)

Q.   It seems like your nerves, we don't see them as much anymore.   Why did that happen this year?
PETRA KVITOVA:   That I'm not nervous anymore? 

Q.   Very little.   For the most part much better. 
PETRA KVITOVA:   I am.   (Laughter.)   You mean on the court probably, right? 

Q.   Yes.   Not outside.   We could do either. 
PETRA KVITOVA:   It's tough to answer it.   Probably I'm trying‑‑ I'm more relaxed on the court.   I have a little bit more confidence probably.   From the Wimbledon I showed maybe that I can play great tennis again, and that's really what I missed for the three years.
So from that time I think it's much better.   I can enjoy the tennis, I can really play, and I know that I love to play tennis.   So that's very important, to know it. 
Yeah, I feel good.   I know that sometimes my game, it's too risky, but that's part of the game.   I can live with that, so that's okay. 
Yeah, that's probably what I can say about. 

Q.   How important is trying to get to No. 1 for you?   You're mathematically closer than you've been in a while. 
PETRA KVITOVA:   It's not that important right now.   I think time hopefully will come to make it.   Is not my goal right now.   I mean, how I said many times already, I mean, I'm more focusing on the results, on the Grand Slams than the number on the ranking.
Yeah, I was pretty close.   I have to say that I wasn't that disappointing that I didn't make it.   But I think that if the chance will be here, I will really fight hard for it.   But of course it still depends on your game and on your form in the moment.
It's not really easy. 

Q.   You've won Wimbledon twice.   Of the other three, which do you feel closest to maybe getting next? 
PETRA KVITOVA:   Maybe Australian Open. 

Q.   Why? 
PETRA KVITOVA:   I'm not sure.   I mean, of course US Open it's not really my favorite one, so...
I'm sorry to say it. 
In Paris is clay, so it always takes me a while to get used to clay a little bit and play some good tennis on it.   It's always about the confident over there.
Australian Open, I know it's very hot over there and everything like that, so I have to be really prepared fitness, be really ready for everything, long matches. 
I love Australia.   I love the people over there.   I love the Grand Slam over there as well.   So I hope that it's can be the best one then. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT