CHINA OPEN
October 5, 2014
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







M. SHARAPOVA/P. Kvitova
      6‑4, 2‑6, 6‑3

    THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.

Q.   Did the fact that you've played 10 matches in the last 13 days finally catch up with you out there?   How do you explain what happened in the third set specifically?
    PETRA KVITOVA:   I can't say that like that.   I mean, yeah, I was tired.   I was talking about that here as well.   But it was final.   Every time I'm playing final, I'm giving everything I have inside. 
    What I did today I think was great battle.   It was small things, small points that make the difference in the end. 
    Yeah, I had little bit of chances, and Maria keep that for her.   I mean, she play really well.   I think it was great tennis.   Played two and a half, so I hope the fans enjoyed it as well. 
    I'm glad for my week here anyway.   I think I played good tennis from Wuhan, and here as well.   Now I need to recover a little bit.   I need some energy back.   I gave everything tonight. 
    Yeah, I will looking forward for Singapore. 

Q.   What did she do today that really gave you problems?
    PETRA KVITOVA:   You know, she's playing very aggressively.   She's playing very flat shots.   She's playing similar as me, so it's very similar game from both of us. 
    The small difference what I was talking about is just who really going little bit forward more than the other.   We both tried to play very aggressively, very fast.   I did little bit more mistakes, I think. 
    I didn't see any statistics, but anyway, I didn't serve well in the third set, as well.   That was not really helping me.   When she return, we are playing more rallies.   It's little bit tougher. 
    I think today I was really missing my serve. 

Q.   We know that Singapore is coming in two weeks.   Is there anything you think you need to work on, small things, for you to get prepared for the WTA Finals?
    PETRA KVITOVA:   For sure it's a lot of things what I need to work on anyway.   First of all, what I say, the serve.   You know, I'm not pretty sure when I'm losing my energy, everything is going just a little bit down.   We'll see how it's going to be.   But anyway, I need to practice on everything anyway. 
    It's going to be indoor.   It's going to be little bit different.   I'm not pretty sure how the surface going to be, if it's going to be slower or faster.   We'll see.   But, yeah, I need to work on my serve and the return.   The beginning of the rallies is always very important for me. 

Q.   Yesterday you said when you play against Maria, it's the little things.   Sometimes in the important points, she plays them better.   Do you think that's what happened today?   If so, are there any specific points that stand out to you?
    PETRA KVITOVA:   I can't really say any specific points.   I mean, when I'm playing, I'm not really thinking about.   It's tough for me to just look to the past what was during the match. 
    But, you know, I think was my bad, too, my first set today.   I was up and I just couldn't hold my serve.   It was happen that I lost it. 
    In the second I play very well.   I served a little bit better.   But it was, again, a little bit worst. 
    I think the games what we played was a lot about the deuce, a lot about the closest games.   I can't really say a specific point what was really sad for me. 
    When I was serving for 5‑All in the first set, that was my bad again.   Small things, yeah. 

Q.   Over the course of the last two weeks, Wuhan and here, what did you learn about yourself or your game?   What are you going to take with you as you leave China?
    PETRA KVITOVA:   I think it was important to play lot of matches anyway.   Going from grass to USA, it's always very difficult for me.   The game, it's changed a lot for me.   It's not big difference, but I need to play more rallies on the hard court.   Always when I'm disappointing after US Open, you know, I'm just going to the work again.   I'm just playing well here every time almost.   That's nice, of course. 
    I think that I played lot of two‑setters, what is great, of course.   I saved some energy during these two weeks.   I have little bit more confident than I have probably before I came to Asia.   I think in the tennis, it's a lot about the mentally side.   That was really important to have it back. 

Q.   If there's going to be one thing you're going to miss after you leave China, what do you think it's going to be?
    PETRA KVITOVA:   Chinese fans (laughter).   Surprise. 

Q.   You have signed IMG recently.   Do they have some special arrangement for you?
    PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, I signed it during the Cincinnati with IMG.   It's pretty new.   What did you ask actually? 

Q.   Do they have some special arrangement for you, some example, activities or news?
    PETRA KVITOVA:   Not yet.   It's pretty new, so I don't have really activity, like more to do.   My work is to be on the tennis court and playing my tennis and work hard every time.   So that's what I will do for my future, as well.   Then we're going to see what IMG bring to me. 

Q.   Are you going to take a rest before Singapore or play some other tournaments?
    PETRA KVITOVA:   That's the thing what I need to really think about.   I mean, I'm very tired.   Small things on my body just starting little bit.   So I need for sure some days off. 
    But we didn't really talk with my coach if I going to play Moscow or not.   We have to decide very soon. 

Q.   We know that you are close to the world No.1.   Now your ranking is No.3.   Next year before Wimbledon, your ranking may improve further.   You may be No.1.   What is your expectation on it and will it give you more pressure?
    PETRA KVITOVA:   You know, this question I heard lot of times, to be No.1. 
    Yeah, I had really very close to be No.1 in 2011.   I didn't make it.   But I'm still living.   I'm still here playing.   It wasn't really about to be No.1.   For me it's more important to have great results on the Grand Slams especially, then it shows on the ranking anyway. 
    Of course, be No.1, it's something really special.   I think in the future it's going to be one of my goals for sure.   But now, you know, everybody just playing so well.   Serena is tough.   We will see.   I mean, I'm not really thinking about a number right now. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT