CHINA OPEN
October 3, 2014
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







P. KVITOVA/R. Vinci
      7‑6, 6‑4

    THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.

Q.   Petra, can you talk about the start of the match today.   A bit of a slow start for you.   Was it something about her game that gives you problems?
    PETRA KVITOVA:   Uhm, yeah.   I think this starting of the match sometimes happen.   She's not really my favorite player to play against.   I mean, she has really different game which not really suits me.   She has great slice and it makes me lots of troubles over there. 
    When I'm not serving, it's just very tough to play her.   She's returning well.   I don't think she really have big troubles with the left hand. 
    Yeah, from the beginning I was there, but I was trying to, I don't know, play aggressively.   I don't know what I tried actually in the beginning of the match (laughter). 
    But she just played really well.   I mean, she was going forward.   She didn't have a lot of mistakes.   I had it.   Then maybe I was trying to play more with the patient and try to hit many balls back to get into the match and come back. 

Q.   You won in Wuhan last week.   You're two games away from winning here.   What is it about China that you seem to enjoy playing here?
    PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, I'm not sure.   I mean, it's the end of the season.   At US Open I didn't really have a good result.   I'm always trying to get back to my good form, just playing well.   Normally I'm fighting for the Singapore, to have some points to qualify. 
    I'm not sure.   I mean, Wuhan was for the first time this year.   It was pretty nice tournament.   I really liked to play there. 
    Of course, here, it's a huge tournament, tough draw.   Everybody just wants to play the best here.   That's the same with me. 
    I'm not sure what is it.   I mean, it's China, of course.   But I'm just feeling good.   I'm just glad how I playing here. 

Q.   You could have played both Williams sisters in this tournament and you end up playing neither.   First, can you comment on Serena's withdrawal.   Obviously she's having some injury problems.   How do you manage to keep fit at the end of the season when so many other players have problems with injuries?
    PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, I just heard it this morning.   I just knew that she withdraw because of knee injury, I think.   I don't know.   I didn't see the last match. 
    I think it's happening.   I mean, Halep, she had a tape.   She withdrew as well.   I think it's a lot of injuries.   It's a long season.   It's the end of the season.   Still Singapore is one to go. 
    It's really difficult.   I mean, I'm not feeling with the full of energy.   I'm tired.   But, I mean, it's for everybody same.   I'm not injured as injured.   But, of course, your body, it's feeling like heavy.   It's not really easy to describe it (laughter). 
    Yeah, I think it's not only this season what is happening.   I think some seasons before we had these troubles, as well.   I mean, it's for everybody same.   Some of them are still playing, some not.   I mean, I hope that Singapore's going to be healthy. 

Q.   Do you sense a different kind of energy in the locker room over the last couple weeks in this part of the season?   Is there energy in the locker room?   Are people kind of ready for the season to be over?   What is your sense?
    PETRA KVITOVA:   Uhm, it's tough to find energy in the locker room (smiling).   I mean, not many people is there now in this time of the tournament.   But, yeah, it's very tough to find energy. 
    It's a long season.   Normally we are alone on the tournaments.   It's just hotel room.   Then you are glad if you are on‑site and you can chat with somebody.   If nobody's in the locker room, it's tough. 
    Yeah, I think a lot of players are, like, tired already and are looking forward to go home and be there.   But on the other side, it's a big tournament and everybody is happy we're still in the draw and still playing.   It's competitive, what we really love to play.   It's both sides. 
    We know the end of the season is coming, so we are still playing what we can.   That's the important now. 

Q.   In the second set when you served for advantage, you called your coach to the court for guidance.   After you won the first set against Peng Shuai, you called your coach to the court.   How important is it for you to get guidance from your coach during the match?
    PETRA KVITOVA:   The coach can come once in set.   We are using quite a lot if I need it. 
    You know, when you are playing, you can't see the small things, but the coach from the bench, he look the game a little bit different.   Sometimes it's nice to heard what is his view of the game. 
    I think, you know, sometimes when he's coming, we have quite good percentage that I win the next games, for example.   So I'm just glad for that. 
    He has good advices for me.   It's helping me. 

Q.   You are a nice player on the tour, very popular in China, like your friend Li Na.   How do you deal with the relationship with other girls on and off court? 
    PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, I think it's going to be different to find someone as Li Na is.   I think that I have a quite good relationship with other players.   I mean, of course it's not always the best one.   I mean, normally we are colleague and still opponent, so it's difficult to find a real friendship. 
    But anyway, with some girls it's really fine.   With some ones it's not so great.   It's everywhere, I think. 

Q.   Last year when you came here you played a lot of three‑set games.   This year you have finished the match in two sets.   Does it mean you play more efficiently this year?
    PETRA KVITOVA:   I think, you know, my last season was really up and down.   Was same in the matches. 
    I think this time I'm more focusing.   I don't have really time.   I just have a blackout, and that's why I lose the set.   I was still coming back in the third.   I was fighting in the third. 
    I'm just glad now that my matches are a little bit shorter than was last year and I can save some energy.   Of course, sometimes it's not that easy as it sounds. 
    Yeah, I think that my mentally side improved a little bit again.   It's just great job. 

Q.   Speaking of David, when he comes down on court, he seems very calm, relaxed.   Has he ever gotten mad at you on court during a coaching period?
    PETRA KVITOVA:   I think he's trying to act a little bit.   I don't think he's calm as he seems (laughter). 
    I think as a coach it's really difficult not to really give the player too much nerves or something like that, so he's always trying to be very calm, just speaking with me.   Normally he likes to have a dialogue, but sometimes it's very difficult with me, so it's just monologue from his side. 
    I'm just glad that he is like he is.   Sometimes, of course, I need a little bit volume of voice of him.   On the other side I think we know each other well.   That's something what I think in this relationship, it's very nice to have it, for sure.   Yeah, I think that he's great coach. 

Q.   Does winning the inaugural Wuhan Open give you more confidence at the China Open?   What is your expectation of the WTA Final in Singapore?
    PETRA KVITOVA:   Of course, I was very happy to win for the Wuhan title.   I fight for Singapore over there. 
    It was very nice to come here more relaxed.   When I came here to Asia, I knew I really need to play good tennis to qualify for Singapore, to have more points.   Then I qualified.   It was much more easier for me.   I'm more relaxed.   I'm trying to enjoy the game a little bit more. 
    Thinking a little bit about Singapore, of course, my goal was to qualify there.   Now I want the best result what I can, of course as everybody. 
    It's tough tournament.   It's only best eight players of the year.   That's always very, very difficult.   Every day is like you have to play for 110% to beat the opponent over there.   I'm looking forward.   I mean, I never be to Singapore.   It's going to be first time.   I just heard a lot of nice things about, so I'm looking forward. 

Q.   At Li Na's retirement ceremony, your speech was very touching.   You have won a lot of fans in China.   I saw a lot of fans are cheering for you today.   What do you want to say to the Chinese fans?
    PETRA KVITOVA:   I think the Chinese fans are really great.   I mean, I never expect I can have lot of fans here.   I mean, you know, China is far away from Europe, from Czech Republic.   I'm just glad I have them. 
    I think that they like me because of Li Na, for sure.   I'm just try to play my best.   They can still support me on the best level. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT