CHINA OPEN
October 1, 2014
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







P. KVITOVA/S. Peng
      6‑4, 6‑2

    THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.

Q.   It seemed as if your opponent was having trouble returning your serve today.   How do you think you were able to be so effective with that?
    PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, I think, you know, some of the players, they didn't really get used to left‑hander's serves, so I think that's my advantage.   Normally from the beginning of the match, they try to get used to.   They are better on the return then. 
    But it was great all the match today.   I'm just glad for that.   The serve helped me a lot.   I made some double‑faults, as well.   But, you know, sometimes it's happening. 
    I'm actually glad that they have a roof on the center court, that we could play. 

Q.   It must have felt good to be back indoors.   I'm wondering, when you see the roof is closed like that, you know you're going to be playing an indoor match, does it change anything in your mind at all?
    PETRA KVITOVA:   Not really, no.   I think that from the beginning I was in a little bit trouble with the toss on my serve with the roof on.   But I was kidding before the match that it might be good preparation for Singapore. 
    Of course, I love to play indoors.   Everybody knows.   I don't think that it's like big, big difference because the center court is so big, so the roof is pretty small in the end of the day. 
    Yeah, it was still very cold out there.   But that's same for both of us. 

Q.   Is your confidence really high right now coming off of the win last week, coming here, having a very good first match?   Describe your confidence level, if you could. 
    PETRA KVITOVA:   You know, I feel well on the court.   I know that I can play good tennis because of last week, Wuhan.   I think my confidence is a little bit higher than after US Open, if I can say like that. 
    That's what I worked hard before I came here.   I knew that I have to really fight for the Singapore.   Everybody's playing so well, as well, fighting.   So I knew it. 
    I'm still continuing.   I feel little bit relax I made it already.   So I'm more relax.   I'm enjoying it. 

Q.   How did it come about that you became the player representative last night to give the speech for Li Na?   Did you volunteer?   Did they ask you?
    PETRA KVITOVA:   You know, we are good friends.   Her manager asked me if I wanted to do it.   Then I find out she said somewhere in the press conference that if she pick from the WTA, she said she would take me. 
    From that time I was like, okay, I should (indiscernible) for her.   That's fine. 

Q.   Did you know you would cry during the speech?   Li Na cried because you cried in your speech. 
    PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, I knew that I going to cry, for sure.   I'm quite emotional person.   I really like her.   So I knew it before.   You know, when I came to take microphone, she was already a little crying, so it makes me cry as well. 
    From the beginning, it was very difficult to stop that.   She was crying more and more, so it was really tough to control that. 
    In the end I think this was the moment when you really can't control it and you can just be what you feel in that moment. 

Q.   You could play Venus next.   Obviously that match at Wimbledon, one of the best matches of the year.   From what you said at Wimbledon, it was the match that gave you the confidence to win that title.   Talk about that matchup and give us a preview. 
    PETRA KVITOVA:   I think that every match what we played with Venus was really great fight until the end.   I played her in Doha, 7‑6 in the third.   Wimbledon 7‑5 in the third.   It's always great.   I'm looking forward for it. 
    She's playing well.   You know, it's the third round in the tournament.   It's very early to meet each other again, same as Wimbledon I should say.   Yeah, it's a tough tournament so you really can't see any easy rounds in the third round. 
    I'm looking forward.   I think that she's serving still very well.   She's moving well, as well.   She's playing fast. 
    We'll see. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT