DONGFENG MOTOR WUHAN OPEN
September 27, 2014
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







P. KVITOVA/E. Bouchard
  6‑3, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Congratulations, Petra.   How do you think that match was able to go in your favor today?
PETRA KVITOVA:   It went well for me, for sure.   I start pretty well.   The first game I break her was very important for my confidence.   I knew that I have to play a little bit more aggressive than I played the matches before.   It's going to be nothing like for Genie.   So I need to play a similar game as in Wimbledon, very aggressively going for the shots.
I was trying from the first shot, from the return, from the first, second serve.   That's what I think really paid off today.

Q.   You're now 14‑4 in finals in your career.   You're 3‑0 this year.   You also sometimes lose fairly early in tournaments.   So how do you explain that?   Kind of is it just when you get to the end of the tournament you're full of confidence?   Is that just really the difference, do you think?
PETRA KVITOVA:   It is I think for me the first rounds of the tournament are the toughest one.   You know, it's always, how I told you yesterday, I really didn't know what's happening from the first round, and it really takes some time with my confidence.
If I'm playing longer in the tournament, deeper, then I more believe in myself maybe, and I just love to play the big matches on the big stadium, and especially the finals, of course.   It's something that I really always try to play the best what I can in that moment.

Q.   You have never lost a set to Genie, and she was saying yesterday that when you guys practiced together that you were winning most of the points.   So what is it about the matchup against her that seems to suit you?
PETRA KVITOVA:   You know, the funny thing is we practiced only once in our career so far, and it was here just before the tournament. 
I don't know.   I remember our first meeting was last year in Toronto, and, you know, she was coming up.   I played solid match, and it was very good rallies and everything.   I exactly knew the final of Wimbledon is going to be totally different.
I'm not pretty sure that it's like something about her game, but I knew that I have to go into every shots for 100%, and I can't give her time to do anything.   Maybe saw something today that if she had time she just hit it down the line and I have no chance.   That was my priority today was I have to deal with the first one.

Q.   Congratulations.   After she injured her finger, did it throw off your rhythm at all?   Because after the injury timeout, you were making a few more errors than you were before and dropped serve when you were serving for the match.   I just wondered how that affected you, if at all?
PETRA KVITOVA:   Not really.   I knew that she has a medical timeout, but I didn't find out for what.   So I was really focusing on my game. 
It's always tough when you are sitting for five minutes and then you come back to the court.   I had to serve luckily, so it helped me a lot in that game.
Yeah, I don't think that it's like make me big difference.   Sometimes I have a game, and I'm doing easy mistakes, so it wasn't really surprise for me.
Yeah, then was 5‑2, I lost my serve, but, you know, against this player, one serve if I lost, it's still like it's nothing really special, of course.   She return so well.
So it was in that game I had a match point, but, yeah, it was just a great game and I was trying to take the next one. 

Q.   I have two questions.   The first one is we know that according to this big win, do you think that you have already find your optimum state, I mean, just like 2011, the best year of your career until now?   And the second one is, your opinion, what's your understanding about the shape and the design of the trophy? 
PETRA KVITOVA:   The first one ‑‑the first question was did I have my best year from 2011? 

Q.   Best form. 
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, I think that I'm feeling well.   I'm prepared very well for the matches.   I find my form finally.   My best tennis was in Wimbledon for sure this year.
I have still a lot of improvement on the hard courts, and I'm just glad that I'm playing so well in Asia here on the hard courts.   I need to take it to the USA then some year (smiling). 
And about the trophy, I mean, it's a special one.   I never see something like that, but, you know, it's very beautiful and I think it suits the city of Wuhan. 

Q.   You also qualify for the Masters.   I guess it's a perfect week for you?
PETRA KVITOVA:   For sure.   It was my goal when I lost the US Open third round, so I was really looking forward to make it.   I knew that I have a little bit better position than the last year, so I was fighting until the end of the last year. 
I'm just glad that I did it here at Wuhan.   Of course it's, you know, best players of the season, so I'm just glad to be there again. 

Q.   (Through translation.)   Just now after the victory you just said that I feel like I come back to my home, I come back home in Wuhan.   Before you come to Wuhan, do you have any expectations for Wuhan?   And after a week of life here, is there any things that impressed you most about Wuhan in terms of landscape, language, and the food here?
PETRA KVITOVA:   You know, I didn't really have a big expectation that I'm coming here in Wuhan.   Of course, it has to be very special because Li Na was born here so it has to be great.   It was a great win for me, so for sure it's going to be great next year again.
Food is great.   What else? 

Q.   (Through translation.)   The language. 
PETRA KVITOVA:   The language is Chinese.   I don't understand anything (smiling). 

Q.   (Through translation.)   And the landscape, the tourist sites and landscape. 
PETRA KVITOVA:   Unfortunately, I didn't have time to visit anything.   I just saw hotel and courts and airports.   Maybe next time. 

Q.   I think you're scaring a lot of the German girls by how well you're playing right now.   How much does the Fed Cup final play into your mind at all at this point in the season, or do you just, you know, you just know it's there and you'll just show up when you have to show up. 
PETRA KVITOVA:   I know it's there.   I mean, it's going to be great end of the season, and I'm just looking forward to play at home in Prague in front of our crowd.   It's always amazing. 
My parents will come and friends, and so it's going to be great they can see us playing at home, so that's always great. 
I'm glad with my form right now.   I hope that we are going to beat them for sure in the final.   I think that we have a chance, as they have.   Of course it's going to be very close and tight tie.   I'm looking forward for that, for sure.   I'm going to be happy if we finish very high. 

Q.   (Through translation.)   You did pretty good on both your forehand and backhand today.   So is anything to do with the training with your father and brother?   You did pretty well, both at the forehand... 
PETRA KVITOVA:   What about my father and brother? 

Q.   (Through translation.)   Because you grow up training with your father and brothers, so is there anything to do with them?
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, I practice with my father until I'm 16.   So the basic shots he just teached me, and I think that he didn't really have a bad job.   So I'm just glad how he teach me everything. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT