DONGFENG MOTOR WUHAN OPEN
September 25, 2014
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







P. KVITOVA/C. Garcia
  6‑3, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   What is it about the conditions here in Wuhan that seem to be suiting your game?
PETRA KVITOVA:   That's a good question.   I think that today was quite humid, and it was very hot outside.   I was really sweating a lot.
Yeah, I mean, the court feels a little bit faster, what I think, and that probably is what suits my game probably.   I'm serving well so it's helpful.
I don't know.   I just feel well here.   The people are coming to support us every time, so it's beautiful to see them there.   I feel good, and I work hard before I came here, so probably everything together. 

Q.   When you go to a new tournament, a tournament you have never been to before, are you nervous or are you excited?
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, it's tough.   I mean, it's not happen that often that I'm going somewhere when I don't know it.   I really didn't know what I should expect from this Wuhan tournament.   I'm just really surprised how well is everything and how beautiful is the courts and the hotel and just they organize it so well.
So I'm a little bit surprised.   I know it's still different, you know.   You know a lot of places where you're playing, but it's something new and it's a new experience. 

Q.   Your game style is one that, you know, when you're playing well it doesn't really matter what the other person is doing.   So at this point, now that you've gone through the first few rounds and you are playing well, do you start to think about tactics and things like that with respect to your next opponents, or are you kind of like, you know, if I do what I have to do, it's not an issue?
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, maybe it doesn't look like, but I'm always thinking about the tactics.   You know, I probably have to know what she's playing better than when she's not that good in some shots and something like that, so I know every time I'm stepping on the court against some opponent who is there. 
But still, I mean, it's something what I ‑‑it's something like plus.   Of course, the main thing is playing my game aggressively and going forward, and, yeah, that's the thing.   Sometimes tactics really can't help if I'm not playing well, so if I miss first or second shots, it's nothing really about the tennis then (smiling). 

Q.   You had a good performance this year.   Which parts do you improve the most this year, the serve, forehand, or mentally, physically?
PETRA KVITOVA:   You know, I think when I'm looking back on my season from the beginning was really tough, and if somebody told me in Australian Open I gonna win Wimbledon and be still fighting for Singapore, I'm not really sure that I can believe them. 
I think I have a great second part of the season, it's great, and everything just start, I think, a little bit in the French Open and then I just was improving. 
I think I'm more relaxed than I was in the first part of the season.   I expect too much from myself in Australian Open.   It was really difficult to just take over the loss in my first round. 
From that time I was still working hard, but I wasn't really enjoying that much as I should probably.   Now I'm more relaxed, more enjoying time on the court, and know what I'm playing.   I think that my mind is a little bit clearer than it was.   That's probably that I'm playing better and feel better on the court and off the court, as well. 
I think that everything what I did past couple of months improved, so that means like serve.   My fitness a little bit, as well.   So I'm just glad for everything what happened. 

Q.   (Through translation.)   Garcia may be like black horse in this event.   What do you think about Garcia?   And have you got any understanding of her before the next round?
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, I know that Garcia had a great round here, that she beat Venus and Aga 7‑6 in the third.   It's always something that you have to be prepared for the fight.   I knew that she can play really well, and she can serve well and playing very aggressively from the baseline.   So I already knew what I can expect. 
My semifinal, we gonna see.   I mean, I just lost to Svitolina in Cincinnati, so if I'm going to play her, I will try my best, for sure.   The same against Angie.   Both are fighting for Singapore, so I think it's going to be a great battle. 

Q.   For the last couple of years, it's very obvious that you have more solid results in Asia than in North America.   What's the reason behind that?   They are all hard courts and always suits your game, I suppose. 
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, if I know it, I will tell you and I will work hard for that (smiling).
I'm not really sure.   It just probably feels better here than in USA.   I had a great run last year in Asia.   Not really before, but still, I mean, it was great last year.   I'm playing well this tournament, so I'm just glad for that. 
I wish that I can, you know, take this performance to USA and ‑‑I mean, I won a title there, but still, US Open is something what I really need to improve.   That's my goal for next year from this time, and, yeah, I mean, it's trying to still put my standard level higher and higher. 

Q.   (Through translation.)   We know that Li Na and you are close friends, like sisters.   Now Li Na has retired, and you have been playing matches in Wuhan Open during the past several days.   Have you ever considered like winning a championship and sending it to Li Na as a gift for retirement? 
PETRA KVITOVA:   That should be nice, but it's still a long ways, two matches, and I have to think a little bit about tomorrow for sure. 
Yeah, I know that it's a hometown of Li Na here in Wuhan, and I'm just really proud of her, how she's great champion and great person.   I'm quite sad that she's leaving us, but it's a time already for everybody they have to leave.
I saw her just when she was here.   She looks so happy, so hopefully she is.   We will see how I'm going, playing here. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT