CHINA OPEN
September 28, 2014
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 
 Q.   Pretty short turnaround between your win in Wuhan and right now.   Have you had any time to celebrate?
  PETRA KVITOVA:   We just catch the flight straight after the final yesterday.   We came after midnight.   So I had just a little bit of sleep.   I'm just here.   Probably I will have a day off today and maybe we have some good dinner.  
 Q.   After winning in Wuhan, what is your confidence level coming into the China Open?
  PETRA KVITOVA:   Of course, it's always great to play a lot of matches before the big tournament when it is something really special.   It's a bonus, of course. 
  This is big tournament, and I need to really think about it from the beginning.   You know, it's the tennis, one week, then the next tournament just starting, so I need to be prepare. 
  I felt good in the Wuhan, in the matches, so I hope that I can show it here again.  
 Q.   Now your spot in Singapore is confirmed.   Does that relieve any of the pressure?
  PETRA KVITOVA:   I have to say that I didn't really feel the pressure during the Wuhan tournament.   I mean, I knew that I need to have good result here in Asia to qualify, but I didn't expect to win Wuhan and qualify already over there.   So that's something nice. 
  Yeah, I mean, I don't feel any pressure right now because of Singapore.   But it's still a big tournament, how I said already.   It's a very tough draw, and everybody's playing, so I still need to be focusing.  
 Q.   You received a bye for your performance in Wuhan.   How do you feel about your total placement on the bracket? 
  PETRA KVITOVA:   I didn't see the draw.   I just knew what I'm waiting for in my first match.   I think it's Peng, some wild card.   That's it for me.   I never look deep into tournaments.   I'm just for my first match.  
 Q.   Last year was your best showing at the China Open, making it to the semifinals.   Do you think this is your year here in China?
  PETRA KVITOVA:   I hope so, yeah.   I mean, last year I played a little while here.   I made a good result here.   Also last year I was fighting for the Istanbul, to make some points.   I did good job here. 
  Yeah, I hope I can, you know, take it to this year and have maybe a little bit better result than the last year.   But, of course, I know that the tournament, it's very tough, and I will have a tough opponent for my first round.  
 Q.   What aspects of your game are you most satisfied with right now?
  PETRA KVITOVA:   I think that my serve helped me a lot during the Wuhan tournament, especially maybe in the semifinal and final.   It really paid off against Bouchard. 
  Yeah, I think that my forehand was enough aggressive, as well.  
 Q.   You tweeted about Li Na's retirement about a week ago.   What is it like being here without her?
  PETRA KVITOVA:   It's weird.   I mean, for sure I will miss her so much.   I mean, we are good friends.   It's going to be sad little bit I think. 
  But I think that she going to be happy, so that's important thing.   I think that she is an icon.   She's leaving us.   She helped so much in the tennis world, in China also.   Just pleased for her great career, and she can really be very proud of herself.  
 Q.   You will be at the press conference for Li Na's retirement.   What will you say to her?
  PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, I said lot of things already to Li Na.   But still, I mean, I going to see her here.   Probably what I going to say is going to be just everything happy for her, to have a great life after the tennis career.   I think it's tough to find a way how you can live after the tennis. 
  But I think that she is a person who will know what she going to do.   I think she have a lot of plans to do.   So I hope everything what she dreams about just come true and she going to be happy what she will do.  
 Q.   For two years you got good results in the Finals.   What is a good way to keep in a good condition at the end of the year?   What is your secret?
  PETRA KVITOVA:   I am glad that I made the WTA Final again, for sure.   It's my first straight.   It's always great.   It's the end of the season and I'm glad for that for sure.   I won it once already, and I know how is it.   It's really great to win Championships.   I will try to do my best. 
  It's very specific to play a WTA Finals.   You know, you have to have really great results during the year and you have to be one of the eight best players of the year.   That's what I qualified for already, and I'm just looking forward.  
 Q.   At this time last week Li Na was sitting right here announcing her retirement.   She said she will bring her friends to Wuhan to go to the sites in Wuhan.   Did you hang out with her in Wuhan?
  PETRA KVITOVA:   I saw her, but she didn't have really time to say something.   She was really fast everywhere.   She just said that we going to see each other here in Beijing.   So she will come here. 
  I just saw her very quickly, so I didn't really have a chance to talk her.  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT