CONNECTICUT OPEN PRESENTED BY UNITED TECHNOLOGIES
August 22, 2014
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







P. KVITOVA/S. Stosur
  6‑3, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.

Q.   What specifically was working with your serve tonight, besides everything?
PETRA KVITOVA:   Besides everything?   Probably placement.   I mean, because I knew that Sam would keep her eye little bit on her backhand when I have a left serve.   I was trying to mix it, as she doesn't know where it's going to be.   Probably that was good idea. 

Q.   Do you feel like you just really quickly rounded into form now, you hit your stride?
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, I was a little bit struggling in the two tournaments before the New Haven.   I'm glad I'm finding my form again. 
I always play quite good here, so I'm glad to be in the final again.   Of course, it's the final, so nobody wants to lose.   That's same with me. 
Yeah, I'm glad with how I played, especially today.   I know Sam going to be tough opponent.   She likes to play on the hard courts, especially here in America. 
I mean, for me, it's a very good win for me today. 

Q.   What is it about you being able to play so well here? 
PETRA KVITOVA:   It's tough to describe.   I mean, for me it's pretty calm here.   I just love to be here, play here.   I mean, we have a relax day, then I have just a match.   I'm really enjoying.   The court is a little faster, so it's much more better for me than Cincinnati, for example. 
Yeah, I mean, I like to be just around, on the court as well.   I don't know.   Sometimes when we are coming to some tournaments, when you have a good memories, it just came to you.   You don't know why sometimes. 

Q.   Is this one of the courts where every time you walk out you think you're going to win?
PETRA KVITOVA:   It's not like that, but I feel well on that. 

Q.   Close?
PETRA KVITOVA:   Close (laughter). 

Q.   Rybarikova describes you as a close friend.   Is it tough playing a friend?
PETRA KVITOVA:   You know, I remember her when we played final in Prague.   It was like 2007 probably, 2008.   From that time we are friends, and we are pretty close friends. 
It's going to be difficult.   It's a long time when we played each other in a match.   We practice sometimes, but not really in the past few months.   I'm not really sure how she's playing. 
But definitely she beat Simona, so she has to play very well.   She's in the final.   In the final, you can't really find someone who is not playing well, so it's going to be tough. 
I think she's going to play a little bit similar to Sam as today.   She has a big forehand, with the serve, slice from the backhand, so it's going to be very similar. 

Q.   This is going to be her first premiere tour final.   There's probably going to be some nerves.   Do you remember your first premiere final and what happened?
PETRA KVITOVA:   I remember my first final in the WTA was in Hobart.   I won actually at that time.   But I'm not really remember my first premiere final.   It doesn't matter. 
If I don't remember, I don't think it was something special (laughter).   Sorry, it's late. 

Q.   The last time you and Magda played, she won.   It was an ITF match.   What about her game gives you trouble?   That she's mixing it up?   What do you have to do tomorrow to overcome that?
PETRA KVITOVA:   You know, I think I had really good practice.   Barbora was mixing it up as well.   I think I'm good prepare for it tomorrow. 
But, of course, always it's different.   It's going to be different opponent, final.   We are pretty close friends.   Everything is going to be like difficult. 
But, yeah, I think she's going to mix up everything what she can.   I just will try to not really give her time for it.   We going to see how's it going to be.   I'm just glad to be in the final.   Final is about to win, so I will try. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT