DONGFENG MOTOR WUHAN OPEN
September 24, 2014
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 P. KVITOVA/K. Pliskova
  6‑3, 2‑6, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   (Through translation.)   Today you played with your compatriot, and you know a lot about each other.   You have similar ways of playing.   So what do you think is the advantage, and why the victory here?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, I don't think that it's true that we know well each other.   I mean, we never play each other and it was our first meeting.  
So it's always tough to play Czech girls for the first meet.   I knew how she's gonna play, that she has a big serve and that she's gonna hit it very hard.   It was, how you say, we play a similar game, and I think that I did better job in the important points when maybe I have more experiences.  
But on the other side, when she was down 40‑Love, for example, she played really unbelievable.   So, I mean, she has a great run.   She just won a title in Seoul, and she's going pretty high in the rankings.   
I mean, I wish her all the best in her career and hopefully‑‑ you know, it's Czech girl again, so hopefully we're gonna be higher.   
   
 Q.   This is the first year that Wuhan hold this kind of tournament.   Also, a shining star like you, like Maria, like Serena, but you know a lot of players, famous players, they don't need to play 100% in this tournament because they already have the qualification to the WTA Final in Singapore.   But, you know, they have a lot of ambitions to beat big tournaments, so do you think it's kind of conflict?   
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, from my side, I think that Wuhan is doing great job for the first time that we have a tournament here.   It's really unbelievable.  
From the players, I can't really say that we are not playing for 100%.   Just three girls qualified already, and I saw Maria's match today.   She tried very hard.   Unfortunately she lost, but it's the tennis.   I mean, at this time a lot of girls are playing so well, and the level, it's so close, and just a few points make the difference in the final of the match.  
You know, I know that a lot of seeded players lost already, but that's the tennis and this is the sport.   I think we can find it everywhere.  
Yeah, I mean, that's something what we are playing ‑‑I mean, everybody standing on the court just try to win.   They don't want to lose.   So the same with everybody.   We just see all the upsets here, but how I said, it's the tennis.   I think that we can find it on the other tournaments, as well.   
   
 Q.   It's a very long season every year.   Can be too much for everybody.   A lot of players retired from this tournament due to physical problems.   Just wondering, are you physically okay after two matches?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   To be honest, I'm tired already from the season (smiling).   Not from the season.   I mean, it's pretty long, we know, but we are fighting, playing every week.   We love tennis, so that's why we are playing.   That's the thing.   
And, yeah, I think that we see some season in the end, and a lot of players are injured, as you said already.   I had a little bit trouble after US Open, as well.   But I recovered well and tried to work hard again.   
I'm here finally 100% ready for the battles, and that's important.   We have still big goal in the end of the year for me.   It's to qualify for Singapore.   And we are still playing Fed Cup final.   So it's going to be a longer season, but on the other side, who really doesn't want to finish the season that high?   So, I mean, for us it's a privilege.   
   
 Q.   Also, you mentioned Singapore.   I'm sure you will be there.   So it's going to be the first year for the Asian‑Pacific region to hold WTA finals.   So what kind of experience you expect to see and try to get involved?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, hopefully I'm going to be there.   Looking forward if I qualify.   I mean, I heard just a lot of positive things.   I think it's going to be great.   
You know, we have legend there and rising stars and more doubles teams, as well.   So I think it's going to be really great.   I have never been to Singapore, so I'm just looking forward to be there.   I think it's going to be a big show.   You know, always WTA finals is the best in the end of the season, so everybody is trying to get there.  
I'm not really sure what I can expect from Singapore, but I heard it's amazing city.   I'm looking forward if I go there.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT