U.S. OPEN
August 28, 2014
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  P. KVITOVA/P. Cetkovska  6-4, 6-2  An interview with:  PETRA KVITOVA   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   Q.  Making short work of your early matches.  How good is it to be able to get through these quickly?  PETRA KVITOVA: It's always great.  You know, Czech girls is never easy.  I was very nervous before the match.  Yeah, I was really tired, so some of the games I tried to push what I can.  I wasn't really relaxed, for example, as first round. Still, it's the beginning of the tournament.  It's always tough.  I'm just glad that I'm through. Yeah, it was little bit of fight again today, so I'm glad for that.   Q.  We heard from the men and women that it's tough with the wind and humidity.  PETRA KVITOVA: It was windy.  Our court start with the shade and it was slowly to cover all the court.  Sometimes I couldn't really see the serve.  You know, sometimes when it's going from the sun to shade, it's not really visible. I'm just glad I did it how I did, and that's important.   Q.  I know you take one match at a time.  But you come in with real good form.  How confident are you that you can go deep in this tournament?  PETRA KVITOVA: That's my goal.  It's a big motivation to go a little bit deeper in the tournament than I did a few years ago. Yeah, I mean, I'm not really thinking about this.  I mean, it's just match after the match, so that's important. For me it's bad to look too much to the future.  So I'm just really preparing for each match. I feel well on the court.  I mean, couple of matches in New Haven helped me.  That's just next match to get through to the fourth round.   Q.  The next match, do you know your opponent, Krunic?  PETRA KVITOVA: I think I played her, but it was a long time ago on the clay, in Prague, ITF even.  I know that she can push a lot of balls back.  She's very good mover.  Probably I need to play, again, my game.  I really can't change it, so...  That's I think the key for the match.  Was tight match with Keys.  I just saw the end of the match. Yeah, that's happening everywhere in these tournaments.  Yeah, I think we going to prepare tomorrow.   Q.  Are you surprised in the last three or four tournaments you played a lot of Czech players?  PETRA KVITOVA: It's true.   Q.  Just by chance?  PETRA KVITOVA: I don't know.  We are just a lot of Czech girls are now in the draw.  I just really had a great practice in Wimbledon.  I played against Lucie Safarova a few times.  Zahlavova Strycova in New Haven, and Cetkovska here.  I'm getting really used to it. Yeah, I will see how is it.  It's never really nice to see Czech girl as opponent, but that's happening.   Q.  How surprised are you it's Krunic and not Keys in the next round?  PETRA KVITOVA: I didn't know who I would play in the third round.  David told me when it was really tight in the third that I'm waiting for the opponent, for the winner of this match. You know, I'm not really like surprised.  I think for Keys was difficult, favorite of this match, playing home.  I think she just really tried to show her best over there.  Krunic is just pushing all the balls back, so it's always very difficult to have a winners. Yeah, I mean, it's happening.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT