U.S. OPEN
August 26, 2014
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  P. KVITOVA/K. Mladenovic  6-1, 6-0  An interview with:  PETRA KVITOVA   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   Q.  It's always good to get a first round of a Grand Slam under your belt.  6-1, 6-0 is pretty commanding.  PETRA KVITOVA: I'm very happy.  First round is always nerves.  It was the same today with morning.  When I wake up, I start to feel nervous. I was just glad how I played today.  It was windy outside, it was tough condition.  But it was the same for both of us. I didn't expect it was going to be wind.  In that time, just try to help maybe with the wind. Yeah, I'm just glad how I played.  I mean, it's great I have a couple of matches from New Haven that I felt more confident on the court than maybe I will feel if I'm not playing New Haven. So, yeah, I'm glad.   Q.  How does it help coming into a US Open having just had a victory like in New Haven?  Does that boost your confidence?  PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah.  I think, you know, always struggling after Wimbledon when I playing the few hard court tournaments before the US Open.  I'm just glad I can play New Haven and have a little bit more matches in my bag. For me it's a good idea actually.  I didn't feel very tired today.  So I think only one thing would help me there.   Q.  Coming off of a second Wimbledon championship, there were some stumbles.  Does that give you confidence knowing you've been able to do it twice, maybe it will help you in the other Grand Slams?  PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, of course the other Grand Slams are a big challenge for me right now to do a good result.  Especially here, where I don't really have a good result.  So I'm really motivating to do well here. You know, I remember 2011 when I lost my first round after winning Wimbledon, so I'm just glad that I'm better already (smiling).   Q.  This is such a different atmosphere here in New York.  Some people love it here.  How do you respond to this kind of tournament?  PETRA KVITOVA: I'm not really this person, really love it.  But that's the Grand Slam, it's important one. Yeah, I mean, if I'm comparing with Wimbledon, it's really big difference.  It's more crowd, it's more big show, something like that.  So it's not really my person. But it's a Grand Slam.  Stepping on the court, it doesn't matter where it is, just play your game and do the best on the court. Like I said already, I didn't have a good result.  So I'm waiting for the time when I can approach that.   Q.  You've been close to No. 1 before.  If you were to go the distance here, you could become the No. 1 player in the world.  Is that an ambition of yours, a goal?  PETRA KVITOVA: No, it's not.  I mean, I was pretty close to No. 1.  But I wasn't really that big disappointed that I didn't make it. Of course it's more important for me to do well in the Grand Slam and winning Grand Slam obviously.  That's what matters.  I mean, the number before name is only say how good you are playing on the tournaments, on the Grand Slam. So, I mean, if you are doing well and you have a good success on the big tournaments, it is showing on the ranking. So just focusing on the next match right now.  Of course, it's a Grand Slam, so that's it.   Q.  Having a 3 in front of your name is pretty good, means you're playing good tennis.  Does that boost your self-confidence?  PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, I mean, after winning Wimbledon, I moved to No. 4, what is great.  I don't know if it's gave me some confident, but it still is a number.  I already was there.  So I know how is it feeling. Yeah, not really like special right now.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT