WIMBLEDON
July 5, 2014
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 P. KVITOVA/E. Bouchard
  6/3, 6/0 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Our 2014 ladies champion, Petra Kvitova.   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Is that the best match you've ever played in your life?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, it seems like, right?   Definitely was one of the best matches what I played.   
I knew that I could play well on the grass, but I really played so well today.   I exactly know what I have to play to beat her.   
I just did really everything what I could in the moment.   I was very focused for every point.   I knew that I have to go forward for every shot what I'm playing to push her.   
Yeah, I did it.   
   
 Q.   Over the last three years what did you imagine it would be like if you got this chance again, and what was it like for you?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   No, I wasn't really imagining this situation again.   I was still believing in me that I can really have it for a second time, some Grand Slam.   I don't want to think about the Wimbledon again, but I want it really too much.   
I really couldn't imagine what this mean.   For me, probably I know a little bit more right now about that, what it's mean for me, how the feelings are and everything.   I mean, it was certainly great journey for me here.   
   
 Q.   What does it mean?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   It's mean everything, definitely.   I mean, it's a Wimbledon.   Tennis here is tennis history.   The Centre Court always great to play on.   I feel really like at home.   
I mean, you know, I was really up and down after my title here 2011.   I was still work hard, believe in myself.   My team believed in me as well.   
We did good job and I'm just glad I have it for a second time.   
   
 Q.   Are we seeing the dawning of the age of Petra, many Grand Slams to come?   No pressure.   
PETRA KVITOVA:   Thank you.   I feel more relaxed now (laughter).   
   
 Q.   You played some incredible defense today.   Have you ever ran like that in your life?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Probably not, definitely.   I mean, few shots was really incredible and I really couldn't believe that I made it actually.   
I made it and I did good job from the position still, so it was really incredible.   
Really for the first time I said, Oh, my God, this is good!   I can really run and put everything back.   
Really, I mean, I was there.   I was for 100% ready for everything for what I should do there.   
   
 Q.   Did you feel like you were in the zone?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Probably, definitely.   I love to play finals.   I love to play on the big stadium.   This is something really special.   I mean, it's not feeling as a tournament for me.   It's something more, more, more.   
Definitely I was in the zone, but I was still thinking it is the final and I knew the emotion.   I can say it's a little bit like a Fed Cup when I'm playing in the Czech and I feel the crowd.   My stomach is a little bit funny.   It just goosebumps.   
Yeah, when I won the first set, I said, Okay, I still have to do the same work, but I was a little bit worry if I can really do it for all match.   But I did it, yeah.   
   
 Q.   Would you say this is the best match you ever played?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   It's really a tough question.   I played a lot of great matches.   This is definitely one of them in the important situation actually.   
   
 Q.   You just said you played with more focus than you've probably ever played with.   In the past, in the three years since you won last time, sometimes the confidence has been down.   How important has your new mind coach been to changing things around?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   You know, I'm with him already since 2010 when I reach the semifinal here.   From that time I think we did very good job.   
It's never easy to handle the pressure after my first Grand Slam here.   It was really difficult for me, definitely.   
We did a lot of job.   I was staying in the top 10 every season.   Like it was big help for me definitely.   I mean, we did great job.   It was still more focusing on myself because sometimes I was a little bit down because of the people expectations.   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   How close were you to not playing in Wimbledon after your injury in Eastbourne?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   You know, that moment was really difficult for me definitely.   I wanted to play.   Of course, I wanted to have more matches before the Wimbledon, as 2011 when I played the final over there.   
In the end it was a great decision not to play, because otherwise I don't know how is feel in the first round when I should play on Monday.   
Definitely I'm glad what we did.   Yeah, I'm sitting here and my leg is quite okay (smiling).   
   
 Q.   Did you ever think that you weren't going to make it here to Wimbledon at that moment?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   In that moment when I was withdraw from Eastbourne?   
   
 Q.   Yes.   
PETRA KVITOVA:   No.   
   
 Q.   I believe it was the quickest final in terms of time in 31 years.   Are you aware of that?   I believe it was Martina Navratilova who picked you by just one minute.   How much would it have meant to you if you could have beaten that?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I don't know what I can say actually.   I'm just glad that it was in the two sets, of course.   I didn't really check the time what we are playing.   
In the end, I was quite lucky, because otherwise we should close the roof.   On the end I'm really glad that I did it before.   
I mean, the time is not really important.   The score made it.   That's it.  
   
 Q.   At what point during the match did you realize you were in the zone, that you knew you had your game today?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   You know, it was probably when I have a game point on 3‑1 in the first set when it was a really longshot.   I did passing shot.   Was a huge rally.   
Maybe from that time I was like, Okay, that's not normal, so that's nice (smiling).   
   
 Q.   Over the period of time since 2011, what makes you feel best about your work, what you've done all this journey?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I think it was really up and down every season what I played, but that's something what I really need to used to and work with everything what was around me.   
I mean, definitely this is mean I can say more than maybe 2011 because I really played great tournament here.   I was ready for every match.   Every match was tough mentally.   
I played very good tennis.   I served very well.   Everything was just together.   
I'm just glad it was in the good timing.   
   
 Q.   At the moment you won, what went through your mind?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   You know, when I sit on the bench when I was 5‑Love, I was like, Okay, now you can try break her; if not, you have the serve.   So I was a little bit more relaxed that I have few chances to do that.   
I just tried to play every point.   I knew that I can again break her.   Then suddenly I did a winner from the backhand.   I was so happy.   I didn't really know what's going to be there.   I just had the tears in my eyes.   I was so, so happy.   
When I saw my box after that, it was much more special for me.   
   
 Q.   You were talking about Martina Navratilova when you received your trophy.   She was watching you today.   Is your goal to be achieve more than she did?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   It's not my goal definitely.   I mean, it is something what I don't think that I really can achieve.   Definitely she's great champion.   She has nine titles here.   
You know, it's nice to see her in the locker room and she's smiling and she's happy for me.   She really cheer for me.   It's really so nice to have somebody as she is.   
She's a legend.   She's really huge in the Czech.   Everywhere, actually.   I'm just glad that I have this huge fan.   
   
 Q.   As much as you were in the zone today, to be in that zone under these circumstances, what was the feeling like on the court while you're going through this amazing run?   How different was the feeling as opposed to the last time that you won here?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I mean, actually I think that I had a zone in 2011 in the final, as well.   I'm not really remembering what was going on, because when I'm in the zone I'm not really thinking about something else.   
So it's really difficult to compare that.   I mean, it was different situation for me that year.   I felt little bit that this situation is the same but on the other sides.   I'm the girl who already won and she didn't.   She's young and everything.   
I just wanted to not make it again like that.   
Yeah, against Maria, was great match for my side as well, and today again.   So good.   
   
 Q.   Your dad was crying at the end.   Does he cry a lot, your dad?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, he does actually (smiling).   It's nothing new, nothing special.   Actually I think everyone was crying in my box, so I think he wasn't only one.   
I was crying, as well.   My dad is very emotional.   I have something from him, as well.   It's my dad.   He has a birthday tomorrow, so I'm just glad that he has a nice present.   
   
 Q.   You said your goal is not to win as many titles as Martina here.   With the game you have and the way you play here, do you imagine in your future many more titles here?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I'm not really thinking about that.   I know that this is the best tournament for me.   I reached semifinal, and past five years good results here.   That's something what I really enjoying to be here.   You can rent a house.   You can be like as a team but still feeling as at home.   
For example, this morning when I wake up on the garden, just my coach with a string just put, Bojd on the garden.   So it was so nice to know that they are with me over there and they are believing I can do it for the second time.   
But I'm not really thinking about something more right now.   I'm just glad I'm sitting here as the Wimbledon champion, and of course that I will do the best.   I will still work hard.   I hope it's not the end.   
   
 Q.   What does that word mean that you just said that he signed?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   B‑o‑j‑d. It's when I'm saying, like c'mon in Czech.   
   
 Q.   So much was written and said about Eugenie Bouchard in the buildup to this final, the coming star from Canada.   Anything in your performance today that said, Don't forget about Petra Kvitova?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I think Bouchard definitely play great tournament here.   I mean, she reach final as a very young girl.   I know that she can be very dangerous.   I did what David told me, that I have to really go for every shot, to not really give her time for her game.   
Definitely she's talented player.   I think she going to be better and better if she still will work hard.   
What did you ask actually (smiling)?   
   
 Q.   My point was, your performance was so emphatic.   Nobody predicted it was going to be as one‑sided as it was.   Was that a statement of intent, you saying, Don't forget what Petra Kvitova can do on a tennis court?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, I think this game is something what is bring me this beautiful emotion in the moment.   I'm glad how I played.   She was still under the pressure and I was the player still putting the pressure on her and trying to do every point for really 100%.   
Definitely I'm glad how I played.   I was probably confident on the court.   I hope that I can replay that again.   
   
 Q.   Last time you won here you went on to end the year No. 2 in the rankings.   Do you have ambitions to be No.1?   Would it be more important for you to win different Grand Slam titles somewhere else?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   You know, I mean, that's really difficult when you have some great success during the year then you bring it to the No.1.   I was pretty close to No.1 and, I feel this is something more special, to have this Grand Slam, especially Wimbledon, than to be No.1.   
I mean, of course the No.1 means a lot to everyone.   For me, I'm just glad that I have this Grand Slam.   We will see what the future brings.   
I mean, it's nice to be No.1, for sure.   I will try everything what I can to be there.   
   
 Q.   Be totally honest now.   What's more fun, clambering up on the roof to get to your friends and family or going through that boring old gate they installed?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   It was really funny today, really.   
   
 Q.   To get the box, they put the gate in.   It's not half as much fun, is it?   
PETRA KVITOVA:   I mean, it was nice to be there, definitely, to have hugs with them.   When I saw, for example, my coach, when he was crying, I was like, Oh, my God, woman, you make me cry.   C'mon.   It's not nice.   
I mean, everyone was crying over there.   It was beautiful to be with them.   
   
 Q.   You spoke a few minutes ago about making some shots that you didn't believe.   How do you explain your mobility today?   It seemed like magic.   
PETRA KVITOVA:   Maybe it was magic.   I was really prepared for everything.   I know I have to go for every, every shot what she played.   
I think that for her then it wasn't really easy when she saw that I'm really running and putting everything back to her.   
Yeah, probably when I am in the zone I'm doing these things.   I just try to be more in the zone then.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT