WIMBLEDON
July 4, 2014
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.  
   
 Q.   How is it different this time than when you won it in '11 because you've done it before, the preparation mentally and physically?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I think it's very similar actually.   I mean, I think I'm more working on my mentally side to be preparing for the match.   I need to be ready 100% because I know that she going to be tough opponent.   And I knew it 2011, as well, so it's no change for me.   
Yeah, the day was quite okay today.   I'm looking forward to tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   What did you learn about yourself from the experience of winning Wimbledon in the days and weeks and years that followed?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I learned a lot, definitely.   I mean, it was everywhere.   It was big surprise for me that I really in the newspapers and everything.   I didn't know before how it's feels.   I'm used to now and I know probably how to handle it.   
I hope this experience can help me then.  
   
 Q.   What did you learn about yourself from the way you handled it three years ago?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, I mean, definitely it's not easy.   I need really some time to used to everything.   I need to change little bit myself.   I had to be more, like, inside, thinking more, little bit the pressure.   It took a lot of energy from me.   
   
 Q.   We saw last year a first‑time finalist couldn't handle the pressure.   Eugenie seems to be very focused, but are you ready for the fact that that could be equally distracting, if somebody really falls apart like that?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Not really.   I'm just focusing that she going to play her best tennis, definitely.   
I don't think it's going to be something easy.   I didn't see final of last year so I don't really know what happened there, but I'm ready for what's going to be.   I hope it's going to be great match.   
   
 Q.   Quite a few major champions of the game, like Sampras, Serena, Djokovic, they won their first major very young and took about three years to win their second one.   You're following the same pattern if you were to win.   Do you feel you're more prepared or probably in a better place to win this time?   Did the first time maybe come while you were too young or maybe not quite prepared?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, I'm not pretty sure if I was too young when I won my first Grand Slam, but definitely I am glad for that.   
I know that after winning first slam, if you're somebody young it's take sometime to win the other.   I hope that my time is here.   I will do everything what I can.   
But, yeah, I mean, it's the big players, and I think it's for everybody saying they really need to know how it's feeling, just the things after they win the first slam.  
   
 Q.   What was it like to adjust when you won the first time to get all that extra media spotlight, extra pressure on you after becoming a Wimbledon champion?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I said already.   I mean, it wasn't really easy.   For me it's a new experience.   You can read it many, many times, but you never know how it's feels.   That was something what I expect too much from myself after that.   
I probably thought that I probably need to win any match I'm going to play after that because I'm Grand Slam champion and everybody expecting from me just the best.   It's not all like that.   
   
 Q.   Are you going to go into this match with the attitude of win or lose it's an experience for me, or you have to win?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I want to win, yes.   That's easy.   
   
 Q.   If you lose, what will happen?   Will you take it as an experience?   Will you kill yourself?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   No, I will not kill myself, definitely.   
   
 Q.   You're going in, I must win?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Of course that it's tennis and you can win or you can lose.   
Anyway, both of us want to win tomorrow.   That's the important.   It's just going to depends on us who is going to want to win more than the other one.   
Definitely we try the best, both of us.   It's only one winner, so...   
   
 Q.   Do you have any rituals?   Do you do anything before you go for your match?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I'm doing always the same.   So it's just practice today, tomorrow I will have a quick warmup, some lunch, and just wait for my match then.   
   
 Q.   How well do you know Genie?   You seem to have pretty different personalities.   Have you ever interacted?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I don't know her.   I just know how she's playing, and that's it.   We are not really talk each other, so not really.   
   
 Q.   Your opponent has created a lot of attention this week.   Does that make life easier for you, that she's getting all the attention?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I'm not really following who is getting more attention than the other.   But, I mean, I'm fine.   I'm feeling good, relaxed.   Of course, I know that the pressure will be there for myself maybe from the people around, but that's not really important right now.   
   
 Q.   What sort of match do you expect to have tomorrow?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I think, you know, Bouchard is playing very solid game.   She's a very good mover.   She's nearby the baseline.   I think it's very similar to my game.   
I think it's going to be tough battle.   Definitely I had a few already, so I know how it's feel and what I can expect.   
Yeah, I mean I beat her for the first time last year in Toronto, but it's long time ago.   It was on the hard court.   This is totally different.   So, I mean, I really have to be focusing on everything and try to push her.   
   
 Q.   What are the keys for you to win tomorrow?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Definitely I have to play my game.   I mean, I have to use my left serve a lot and to be aggressively.   That's my game.   That's I think can be the key.   
   
 Q.   You're the champion.   As a colleague said, she drew a lot of attention.   Who do you think will be the crowd favorite tomorrow?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I don't know.   I think they will come to see good tennis for first.   I really can't bet who going to be favorite of crowd definitely.  
   
 Q.   (Question regarding the crowd.)  
PETRA KVITOVA:   No, I really don't care.   I mean, I'm just there and playing my game.   That's the important and that's enough for me.   
   
 Q.   Eugenie spoke in the past how she wouldn't have friends who played tennis because she'd find it too difficult to beat them on the court.   Do you think it is possible to have friends on the tour?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, of course I think it is possible.   I have many friends on the tour.   So I'm not really against that.   
I mean, we are colleague in the same sport.   Yeah, I'm glad that I have a friends here, so that's it.   
   
 Q.   After you won last time, what was the best part of it and what was the worst part of it?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   The best was the feeling because, you know, when you are playing tennis, everything what you deserve, and win a Grand Slam is the great what you can have.   That's happen to me and the feelings.   
When you see your parents and brothers, team, they are all smiling, they are so happy what you come by.   It's happening just a few times in your life, so that was the best moments.   
And the worst one definitely I wasn't really used to the attention after that.   I mean, that was the biggest problem, I think.   
   
 Q.   It's been a fantastic tournament for the Czechs.   Talk a little bit about what that means to have so many people from the Czech Republic making a great show on grass this year?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I think for me it was really special.   I played Andrea in the first round, then Barbora and Lucie, so I this three Czechs in the tournament.   It's amazing definitely.   
I think this make maybe more famous and attention in the Czech that we are all in the draw in deep in the tournament.   So I think it was really great.   
I'm just glad that ‑‑ we know we have many players in the top 100, but never was it at a Grand Slam like that.   I'm just really glad that they did it, as well.  
   
 Q.   Do you think it's going to help increase the focus on tennis in the Czech Republic?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I think we are already.   I mean, from the time that Tomas Berdych was in the final here was more and more famous in the Czech.   We are just glad that we can have this success in the Davis Cup and Fed Cup, as well.   I think it's very famous in Czech.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT