WIMBLEDON
July 1, 2014
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 P. KVITOVA/B. Zahlavova Strycova
  6/1, 7/5 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   How does it feel to be back in the semifinals here?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   It's feeling great.   I mean, these feelings are always very emotional for me.   Of course, to be in a semifinal of Wimbledon is always great of course for me.   Especially when I won it here, I have great memories.   
Definitely I'm happy that I'm there again.   
   
 Q.   The second set you were behind, looked like she was forcing you to another three‑set match.   
PETRA KVITOVA:   I really didn't want a third set because I knew we probably have to close the roof as well.   Yeah, many things in my mind at the time.   
When I lost my serve for the first time in the set, I knew that I really have to try to rebreak her.   Otherwise, I mean, under the pressure again.   You never know what's happening in the third set.   
I was really pushing.   Yeah, I'm just glad that I break her back.   You know, in the end of the second set was still up and down in my serve in the end.   But I made it.   That's important.  
   
 Q.   Given how good you are indoors, I would think that actually closing the roof, you would like that.   Have you played under the closed Centre Court roof?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I did.   I played 2012 quarterfinal against Serena on Centre Court with the closed roof.  
   
 Q.   Do you like it?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I do.   There's no wind.   Of course, I'm a fan of the indoors courts.   If it's longer and longer, you never know what's happening there.   Barbora was really prepared for me.   She got a lot of balls back.   It was really difficult to have a winners.   
Yeah, I mean, she played really well, I have to say.   
   
 Q.   You've been in the late stages of Grand Slams before.   How does it feel playing all these other Czech girls?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   It's going to be my third match against Czech girl actually during the Wimbledon, which is unusual.   We played last time in Eastbourne.   It was big fight until the end.   I'm expecting tough battle again.   
Of course, she's playing amazing.   She's in semifinal.   Yeah, I mean, it's going to be great match I think.   
   
 Q.   Do you have any sense as to what has made this tournament maybe different?   Did you feel different coming into it, like maybe you were hitting the ball particularly well, relaxed?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   It's tough to say.   I mean, I'm aggressive definitely more than last year, for example, or the other tournaments.   I just probably feel the grass.   I just know that it suits me well and I can really play my best tennis on that.   
It's everything give me some more confidence.   I really had a great practices before Wimbledon.   I played well in Paris.   So it gave me a little bit more confidence from there, as well.   I lost a really tough battle against Sveta, but it gave me a lot of positive things from that match.   
I'm just glad that I'm playing semifinal again.   
   
 Q.   Does it feel like you've come into this tournament under the radar?   Do you feel there was maybe less attention on you at this Wimbledon?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Not really.   I mean, I'm not really following the other things around.   I'm just focusing on myself.   We were watching Maria when she lost today when I was at home.   But that's the tennis.   I mean, everyone is so close now.   There's lots of great matches out there.   
I'm just really focusing on me, and that's important right now.   
   
 Q.   How big of an advantage is your experience?   
PETRA KVITOVA:   That's what we going to see probably, if it's helpful or not.   But I think it's not really about‑‑ of course, it can help me that I probably will know what I'm doing out there, how nervous I will be, these things around.   It's not very typical and unusual.   
Yeah, we're going to see.   
   
 Q.   How would you compare what your days are like when you're not playing now compared to back in 2011?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Days when I'm not playing?   
   
 Q.   How you spend your time when you're not dealing with tennis.   
PETRA KVITOVA:   I'm not really remember 2011.   I think it's very similar actually.   I'm not doing really nothing, so it's not interesting.   I'm just really chilling, watching some movies and series.  
   
 Q.   What are you watching these days?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I'm watching a Czech series actually.   But it's relax, so that's good for me.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT