WIMBLEDON
June 30, 2014
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 P.   KVITOVA/S. Peng
  6/3, 6/2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Another fantastic business‑like performance today.   How would you sum up how you're feeling now?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I knew that she can play very well on the grass.   After my match against Venus I thought it's going to be very difficult emotionally and physically, but I had two days off, what was nice to me definitely.   
I can relax a little bit and focus on this match, and I think that I did it well.   I mean, I was focusing on every point.   It was pretty close from the beginning, and when I break her it was a little bit better for me definitely.   
I was more relaxed then and I could play my game.   Yeah, I'm just glad that I won.   That's important.   
   
 Q.   You're one ever three Czech players through to the quarterfinals now.   Is there something in the water at the moment?   Something that's been happening this year?   Just luck of the draw?   
PETRA KVITOVA:   I'm not pretty sure.   I mean, all of us playing well this tournament of course, otherwise we are not there.  
Yeah, I mean, I don't know how the girls, but I think we prefer playing‑‑ Lucie definitely ‑‑ preferring aggressive game.   Barbora is just very good with the tactics and she has great touch and great volleys, slice, and everything like that.  
So I think it's just the grass suits us definitely.   
   
 Q.   Is it difficult to face a compatriot?   
PETRA KVITOVA:   Definitely will be.   I mean, I had a good practice for my first tournament.   I played Hlavackova, and of course with Barbora it's going to be very similar if I feel the Czech ones on the other side.  
Of course the tactics will be totally different definitely.   She's playing not like everyone here.   She's playing really‑‑ going for the volleys and playing different game.  
So that's what I need to be focus on.   
   
 Q.   Will it go back to being a three setter for you, do you anticipate?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Tomorrow if it's going to be three sets?   
   
 Q.   Yeah.   
PETRA KVITOVA:   I don't know.   We'll see tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Would be it close between you and her?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, I'm not pretty sure.   We played last time quite long time ago, so I'm not pretty sure how it's going to go.   And we never played on the grass, so we going to see.   
   
 Q.   You never played on the grass?   
PETRA KVITOVA:   I don't think so, no.   
   
 Q.   Is it starting to feel like 2011 again?   
PETRA KVITOVA:   Not really.   I mean, it's different time.   It's already three years, so I really can't compare it.   
Definitely I'm feeling confident, and that's important right now.  
   
 Q.   Is the experience of three years ago going to be important moving forward?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I think it can help, yeah.   We'll see.   Of course every match is different.   With Czech girl it's difficult as well.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT