WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2014
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 P. KVITOVA/V. Williams
  5/7, 7/6, 7/5 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   That was a pretty great match between two players who obviously know how to play on that court.   What were your thoughts on it and how you managed to get the win?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I knew what I can expect from her definitely.   We played in Doha last match.   Always we played three sets.   
When I lost the first set, I was still believing I can come back in the third.   
I mean, I knew she's going to play a great match on the grass.   She definitely loves it.   Same as me.   I think the match just showed how great was battle from both of us.   
   
 Q.   Your rise the last few years came at a time when she was starting to decline.   She's working her way back.   Is it still something special to be able to play her?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, definitely.   I think that she's trying to come back.   She's doing good job actually.   Of course, for us it's always tough to see the opponent who is really trying and fighting.   
She's a huge player, big champion.   So we all have respect to her, definitely.   
   
 Q.   You saw the caliber she had today.   Do you think she can come back and win another Grand Slam?   She won a tournament this year.   But does she have that level back?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I think she's playing really, really well.   She showed it as well today.   I think that she can win some titles again.   
Yeah, I think if she going to be healthy and play some matches and everything like that, she can do it.  
   
 Q.   Through your first three matches, how pleased are you with how well you're playing right now?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Definitely I'm pleased that I won.   I'm in the second week of the Grand Slam, so that's really nice to have this feeling.   
Yeah, I'm pleased with my performance.   I mean, I don't think that I was better player today actually all the match, but I just keep it and try to win the important points in the tiebreak, then I just tried to wait for some breakpoint.   
Yeah, of course, I won three matches here on the grass.   I love it.   I will try not to be the end.   
   
 Q.   How pleased are you with how all the Czechs are playing?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   It's amazing, right (laughter)?   
I mean, it's a great tournament for us, definitely.   Of course, we going to have one in the quarters, so that's great definitely.   I mean, Smitkova has unbelievable tournament.   She is playing really well.   We actually warm up every day before our matches, so that's great.   
Yeah, Barbora play amazing probably today.   I didn't see a lot.   But her performance on the grass is always great.   So I'm really glad that she won it.   
Of course, Lucie, she's great player, left‑handed on the grass.   So it's nice.  
   
 Q.   I guess you'll continue to warm up with her?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I think so (laughter).   
   
 Q.   How much difference does it feel playing somebody like Venus, a great champion, when she's playing that level?   Inside your own head, is it much more intense than against some other player?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, I mean, I really wanted to win today, definitely.   I mean, I was very nervous before the match.   I knew that she's five‑time champion here and she loves to play on the Centre Court as well as me.   
You know, it was very difficult for me mentally and everything.   I just think the mentally side I was just a little stronger than her today.   That's why I think I won it, because of that.   
If you know you are playing somebody who loves to play on the grass, that she had already five titles, it's not easy.   You have respect.   You are expecting everything from her.   
   
 Q.   Is this the best match you played since the year you won?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   On the grass?   
   
 Q.   Yes.   
PETRA KVITOVA:   I think that I can say it, yeah.   
   
 Q.   Going back to the Czech success here at Wimbledon, including Tomas as well.   How much of that is because back in the Czech Republic, you grow up playing on quick, indoor surfaces?   Is that a common theme, do you think?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   You know, I think we have special place in Czech, definitely, because during the summer we are playing on clay.   During the winter when we ‑‑ actually me, when I was growing up, I was practicing in the school when it was really fast surface.   Maybe that's why I like to play on the grass.   
I'm not really sure about the others.   I think they are practicing during the winter of course somewhere indoor, on the hard surface.   But, yeah, I mean, maybe something in the water for us (smiling).   
   
 Q.   You really showed you wanted to win the game today.   I wonder how much the crowd helped you at crucial points in the game.   
PETRA KVITOVA:   You know, probably I was in the zone, so I'm not sure what's happening around me.   Just saw my box when they are jumping.   They were very loud, so I could hear them of course.   
But I was really focused on me and what I can do, make the next point, not really about the crowd.   
But of course in the end when I finally heard them, I was more relaxed.   It was really amazing to be there again.   Of course, every time when I'm stepping there, it's big honor for me.   So it's great.  
   
 Q.   You had almost twice as many unforced errors as Venus.   
PETRA KVITOVA:   I think both of us tried everything what we could definitely.   She was serving pretty well.   It was really tough to break her.   
I'm just happy that I did it actually for the first time in the match.   Yeah, I think that both of us just did what we can.   
   
 Q.   Is there any concern about like an emotional letdown after this match, or do you have so much experience at this point that you're not too worried about, I beat Venus, now I have to play somebody who is not Venus?   Is that going to be difficult?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, no, it's always tough.   I don't think that I was really favorite of this match what we played today with Venus.   I think it was like 50/50.   Still in the tournament next match I going to be favorite again.   
Actually I'm used to it already.   That's something that in the fourth round you can't meet anyone who is playing badly.   So definitely I have to be focused on that.   
I played Peng already few times.   I know her also.   I have two days off now, what is pretty weird during the Grand Slam.   But, yeah, I mean, I have to be prepared for her definitely.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT