DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 19, 2014
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







C. NAVARRO/P. Kvitova
  1‑6, 6‑4, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   What are your thoughts on that?
PETRA KVITOVA:   That's quite tough to say like 30 seconds after the match, but, yeah, I mean, I start really well, I play pretty aggressively, I made a lot of winners, and she didn't have really time to hit well as she did after. 
And when I was leading in the second set, I lost very badly my serve, and I think that from that moment I was like a little bit mentally down and I was trying to come back. 
Yeah, I mean, I was close, but still she won the second set and it was tough to come back again in the third.   In the tiebreak, I just made two easy mistakes, and I think that was the thing what she did better.

Q.   Is there extra pressure in trying to defend a title?
PETRA KVITOVA:   Not really.   I didn't feel any pressure that I'm defending the title.
I mean, I really wanted to win.   I really love this tournament.   It's great.   The surface suits me well.   But unfortunately I didn't do it today.

Q.   Is it a little bit sort of slower and cooler playing late at night? 
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, I feel that the ball didn't fly that well as I fought, and during the day it's much more warmer so I think the balls are flying a little bit more.
But, yeah, that's the thing.   It was same for both of us.   Yeah. 

Q.   You spent quite a lot of time out there.   So are you physically feeling well?   Because that was one of the things you wanted to... 
PETRA KVITOVA:   Definitely I would be much more better if it's not that long as I played there.   What I can do?   I mean, if I'm not focusing all the match, I have to fight back and try to win the match with the fight. 
That's the thing what I did today but unfortunately with a bad end.   I had two difficult matches in Doha when I fight back and I won it.   But today, yeah, it was just on her side.

Q.   Physically you're feeling fine?
PETRA KVITOVA:   Physically I'm quite okay.   I mean, nothing special.   I had the time to recover from Doha, so that was good. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT