AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 17, 2014
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 P. KVITOVA/L. Safarova
  6‑1, 5‑7, 7‑6 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   What are your thoughts on the singles?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   You know, I mean, we played each other a million times already this year, and I was playing pretty okay to go for this match.   Yeah, I started pretty nicely.   
I had a break in the second set, as well, and everything was so easy.   Then I just serve and I felt like my serve wasn't‑‑ I wasn't calm in that game.   She just returned well.  
Yeah, it was a new match again when it was 5‑All.   I was a little bit disappointed, a little bit down mentally.   I was still thinking that I had a match point already and I should go in the locker room already.   And I was still there and playing one more hour.  
It wasn't easy, but in the end I won which was important.   Lucie played well in the third set, so I'm just glad that I just won.   I mean, it was first match on the grass, so still it's a good win.  
   
 Q.   What are your memories of when you went to Wimbledon to defend your title?   How was that?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   You know, it was nice, but still was very nervous from my side.   It was my first round here, so I just had one match on the grass when I was stepping on Centre Court on Tuesday at 1:00.   And I just remember when I played I was very nervous.   
I played quite good girl, and she was serving well, so it was difficult to return many serves.   
It was nice to be there.   I mean, my parents were in the Royal Box and my box was full with my coaches and manager.   So it was very special day for me, definitely.  
   
 Q.   How do you think it will be for Andy this year?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I think it's going to be very similar.   I mean, I think that he's gonna be nervous.   I mean, everybody is nervous before first round when he's defending champion in England when everybody is expecting a lot from him.  
So I think for him it's nothing easy to do, of course, but I mean, I hope that he's gonna be fine and play well.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT