AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 16, 2014
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   How are you feeling these days?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I'm feeling pretty good.   I mean, there is no rain so we can practice.   That's good.  
Yeah, I went home after Paris, so I practiced over there and I just came here on Thursday.   It was pretty good day of practice, and my first match is tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Obviously playing Lucie Safarova, you know her very well.   How do you feel about that match?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, I mean, it was quite funny when I find out that I'm playing first round against her.   It's our fourth match this year.   We played so many times already.   We know each other well, not only from the tournaments but we play Fed Cup together.   That's always fun to be with her in a team.  
Yeah, I mean, it's tough to play your friend, definitely.   I mean, she's just going to be my opponent tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   How difficult is it to concentrate on this week when there is next week happening?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Every time when I'm in a tournament, I'm just focusing on this tournament, not about the next one, so that's same for me here.   
Of course I want to play the best what I can to get used to the grass and everything before Wimbledon, but I'm taking this tournament as a very big one.   It's a very tough draw.   Everybody wants to be successful here.  
   
 Q.   You're talking about the fact it's not raining, but it is quite cold.   Could you just talk a little bit about how much longer it takes you to warm up and maybe wearing leggings?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I'm not really preferring to play match in leggings, definitely.   I mean, I'm not feeling very uncomfortable.  
But of course when it's a little bit cold, the balls are not flying as normally with the sun and with the warmer weather.  
But it's for everybody same.   I mean, it's something what you're used to.   That's England, I think.   I mean, we are just thinking about the rain, but it's still not here so it's great what we can play.  
I mean, that's tennis and that's for everybody same.  
   
 Q.   Would you prefer to be too hot or too cold personally?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I don't like too hot as Australia, but too cold, 10 degrees is too much as well.   Something in the middle is fine (smiling).   
   
 Q.   You talk about the rain, but actually the thing that always seems to shock the players here in Eastbourne is the wind.   
PETRA KVITOVA:   It is.   It's a little bit windy, but I remember the last two or three years was just incredible really.   I mean, was not about the tennis.   I remember the final when I play against Bartoli 2011 was really funny for both of us.  
This is still great (smiling).   
   
 Q.   How do you find it playing in the wind and adapting to the grass?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, I think it's two different things, adapting to the grass or playing in the wind.  
I mean, we are playing in the wind not only on the grass, so we know how we have to find out the way how we can play.   On the grass it's just very similar.  
   
 Q.   How difficult is it to switch from clay to grass?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I have to say that it is difficult.   I mean, the movement is totally different.   You're not playing the rallies on the clay here.   You are just playing really about three, four shots maximum on the grass.  
Trying to play more aggressive, going for the volleys, for example, to be much more lower than normally.  
   
 Q.   Do you find that hurts physically, getting used to it?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Every time when I'm stepping on the grass it's hurts a little bit, so I have some special exercises of course for the grass.   But, I mean, after the match it's always tough.   
So I will see how I feel tomorrow from the practice if it's still okay.   So we'll see.   
   
 Q.   It's been kind of an up‑and‑down season for you so far.   Now that we're kind of halfway through the year, what's your perspective on your game so far?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   You know, I'm not really expecting anything.   I mean, my beginning of the year wasn't my best one, definitely.   I was expecting better start of the season.  
But that's the tennis, and sometimes it happen.   I'm just taking like that.   I feel well last couple of weeks, and I just hope that it's going to continue on the grass especially, definitely, but, yeah, I mean, I'm just still working hard and trying to improve my game.   I feel well, how I said, so we will see how it's going here.  
   
 Q.   Do you think people especially on the grass are trying to beat you as a former Wimbledon champion?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Maybe.   I'm not really sure.   I mean, I never asked them (smiling).   
Yeah, maybe for them it's a little bit more special because we know that Wimbledon is just Serena, Bartoli, and me for a couple of years.  
Probably they know it, but I'm not really sure if they have a special motivation to beat me on the grass.   We'll see.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT