ROLAND GARROS
May 31, 2014
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. KUZNETSOVA/P. Kvitova
      6‑7, 6‑1, 9‑7 
  
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please.   
   
 Q.   It was a huge fight for you out there, serving twice for the match.   Then the injury.   How did you go through all of those stages of the match?  
    PETRA KVITOVA:   I'm not really sure or I can't say.   It was really a big fight from both of us.   I think that both of us showed great tennis out there.   
    Yeah, I mean, it was very close, few points, but that's the tennis.  
    I mean, in the end she really played well.   She put almost everything back, and it was very tough to win that.  
    Yeah, I mean, she just played very well.   That's her game.  
   
 Q.   You had an injury in that match, a problem apparently with your right leg.   Can you tell us exactly what it is and when did you start feeling it during the match?  
    PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, I felt just hamstring on my right leg, but that's it.  
   
 Q.   Obviously it was a close match.   You both had your chances.   She hasn't really done a lot for a few years.   What do you think of her level in general?   Is she capable of winning this tournament?  
    PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, I mean, in the past couple of weeks she's playing very well on the clay.   I mean, she had a great run on the clay what I know so far.   And of course, she loves to play here.   She is past champion.   She played final here I think, as well.   
    I knew that she gonna be dangerous more here than anywhere else.   But, yeah, I mean, I had chances to win that match, and was pretty close.  
    She had match points on my serve, as well, and was still playing.  
    I mean, that's the tennis.   She just really played well, and she can play very deep in the tournament.  
   
 Q.   Are you ready to get back on the grass where you have also had a lot of success?   
    PETRA KVITOVA:   Of course that I'm ready.   I'm looking forward for that part of the season.   And I'm playing Eastbourne, as every year, and of course I'm looking for forward to be back in Wimbledon.   It's the grass.   It's my favorite surface.  
    I'm feeling actually quite okay.   I mean, I feel well in the fitness.   I mean, I didn't play badly today.   I'm just have to thinking a little bit more positive than I am right now.  
    But, yeah, I mean, that's next challenge for me.  
   
 Q.   Is the disappointment bigger because Serena lost, Li Na lost, and maybe there was a lost opportunity for you here?  
    PETRA KVITOVA:   I didn't really care about them.   I mean, it was my match today.   I was focusing on my match and not for everyone else.  
    So the tournament is open, but still a lot of great players are still in the draw.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT