ROLAND GARROS
May 29, 2014
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 P. KVITOVA/M. Erakovic
      6‑4, 6‑4 
  
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please.  
   
 Q.   You won in two sets.   Are you pleased?   Because we know in the past you've played a lot of three‑setters.   It was a bit easier this time today?  
    PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, I remember last year was my thing with the three‑setters.   This year I played a few already, so I'm really glad that I play only two sets.  
    I'm really glad the way how I played and kept it in the end.   It was important to stay there focusing on every point and turn the second set when I was losing 3‑1.  
    Yeah, definitely I'm glad that I'm through.   
   
 Q.   What do you think about the conditions?   Do you prefer playing in quick conditions when it's sunny, or do you feel okay and you can adapt to those slow conditions like today?   
    PETRA KVITOVA:   No, I feel good.   I mean, wasn't that cold and wasn't that wind.   I think it was pretty good.   It's every time same for both of us.  
    I mean, I don't really care what is the condition outside.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel the draw now is more open since Serena and Li Na are eliminated from the main draw?  
    PETRA KVITOVA:   Not really.   Everyone has to be focused on the next match.   I'm trying.   I saw Serena when she lost.   I saw Li Na.   That's happening.   Everyone is playing very well here.  
    It's a Grand Slam, so every match is tough to play.   I'm just focusing on my match.   The next match will be very tough for me, so I have to be focus?  
   
 Q.   Maybe a friend of yours, Wozniacki, she's having a hard time.   She was out in the first round.   Do you sympathize with her situation?  
    PETRA KVITOVA:   Actually, I know what happened, but, I mean, it's happening to everyone.   Of course she is sad and it's a hard time for her.   We practiced here.   She didn't play badly, but in the match it's different.   
    I heard that she had some knew troubles, so, I mean, I think she's going to be better soon.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT