APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 9, 2014
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







T. PIRONKOVA/P. Kvitova
  6‑4, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Must be disappointed, but she was very, very consistent.   Is that the main thing that got you in trouble today?   Just kept getting every ball back. 
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, she moved well on the court, and how you said, every ball was in the court.   It was tough for me to make a winners because she moved in the baseline very well.   This was hard for me to have short rallies.
She served well so she helped a lot with the serve.   Actually she was returning my serve pretty well.   It wasn't that great, my serve, as previous matches. 
Yeah, that's the life.

Q.   Last time you played together did you notice a big change?   Do something a bit different?
PETRA KVITOVA:   Me? 

Q.   No, no, her. 
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, I think she has still same kind of style what she was playing.   She has a better backhand; her weaker in the forehand.   But I think that she improve first serve for sure.   I play her on the grass, so it was different surface. 
My serve helped me more on the grass before, so that's tough to compare. 

Q.   Del Potro was saying that these courts are fast and playing like grass.   Do you feel that way? 
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yes, I feel that these courts are faster than last year or two years ago, so for sure he's right. 
Actually I was happy that they were faster than before, but she likes grass as me.   She likes faster surface too, and she was just better on the court today.

Q.   So you came back in the second set.   You were down 4‑1, you came back, and then played one sort of loose game and then it got away from you?
PETRA KVITOVA:   Actually I came back in the first set, too, but I didn't keep my serve.   I think that was the biggest different, that I didn't have with my serve as yesterday.   Yeah, I didn't have that much percentage, so I think that that's why it was tough for me to keep serve. 
She didn't have like unforced errors, so it was really tough today. 

Q.   You played Hopman Cup and here.   I suppose you got as much as you can.   You made semifinal here, Australian Open campaign.   Talk about how you feel right now.   I know you're disappointed. 
PETRA KVITOVA:   About these two weeks I'm feeling pretty confident.   I think the matches what I played was great, and I have three in my back. 
So I think it's really good to have this record coming to Australian Open.   It's a new week in the Australian Open in Melbourne, so I think that's going to be everything new and the Grand Slam and everything.
So, yeah, I just hope that I can bring something good from Perth and from Sydney.

Q.   Are you saying the result doesn't matter that much going into a Grand Slam, it's more your form and how you feel you're hitting the ball?
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, for sure.   For my side, yes.   I mean, of course you are disappointing when you lost, so that's same with me.
But I play three matches here and three in Perth, and I think that's the important, to have some before.   It's better to lose in the semifinal than in the first round for sure.   (Smiling.)

Q.   Would you rather have this kind of court speed in Melbourne, too?   Is this the court speed you want?
PETRA KVITOVA:   They're going to be similar in Melbourne? 

Q.   We don't really know. 
PETRA KVITOVA:   I heard that they are a little bit faster than last year, but I didn't play there, so obviously I will find out when I come there.
But, yeah, of course that I prefer this faster surface. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT