QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 14, 2014
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. JANKOVIC/P. Kvitova
  6‑1, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Your intensity didn't seem to be as high as it was in the last two matches.   Did the long matches in the last two rounds take their toll on you a little bit?   
PETRA KVITOVA:   I think so.   Unfortunately when you're playing someone like Jelena, it is tough normally when you are ready, and if you feel something in your body, it's more difficult.     I tried, but unfortunately she was better today.  
   
 Q.   Physically were you struggling from anything or just fatigue?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   From everything (laughter). No, really, I feel almost everything on my body.  
That's quite tough, but I knew that it's not like typical injured.   I tried, but, yeah, I wasn't really ready for it.  
   
 Q.   How does a big champion like you come back from a loss like you had today or the one that you had in Australia?   How do you digest it?   How do you come back from it?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Definitely the loss in the Australian Open was one of the toughest ones for me.   I mean, today I lost but I had a great two matches.  
It took some time, some days, to get over from the Australian Open.   I wanted to practice, to play tournaments, but I was sick, so it was much more tougher for me mentally.  
I think that I am gonna be okay tomorrow after this loss.  
   
 Q.   Before coming here you were sick, and now you had three good matches.   Are you going to Dubai feeling that you have had enough matches and enough confidence going there?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   For sure I am going there more confident and more relaxed that I played some matches here, for sure.   So that's nice.   
If I lost here first round, I think it's gonna be much more difficult for me to still be positive on the court.   But, yeah, I mean, it wasn't easy matches what I played here, so I'm glad for them.  
   
 Q.   On a slightly happier note, today is Valentine's Day.   Do you celebrate this day, or is it of any significance to you?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   No, I'm not celebrating this day.   I mean, it's from USA.   In the Czech Republic we are not really celebrating on this day.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT