QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 10, 2014
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Welcome.   You had a really great match here with Serena last year and very nearly beat her.   Do you remember things like that when you come back to a venue?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, I do, a lot.   Last year when I coming to Doha, I didn't have really confidence for the start of the season.   I lost matches before, and I came here to try some matches.   
When I played against Serena in the quarterfinals, I really played great tennis.   I lost, but still I got some confidence from that match, and it was really great for me for the next matches.  
So, yeah, I remember it quite well.   She was No. 1 after she defeat me, so it was nice for her as well.   Yeah, it was great.   
   
 Q.   You hit the ball really well then, and you finished last year pretty well, too, in the last three tournaments, but the start to this year has maybe been a bit more difficult.   Why would that be?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah.   I mean, it was for sure.   I start pretty well in Hopman Cup and in Sydney when I played semifinal.   And then unfortunately I lost my first round in Melbourne, was really disappointing for me, and I need really some time to take off to get over this match.   Actually, I have it still in my mind, so it's not really easy to forget.  
But, I mean, with tennis is nice we have every week new chances to play better.   That's what I'm thinking right now and try to play better than there.   
   
 Q.   I think it's fairly well known that like a lot of people you are an asthma sufferer.   Was that part of the problem?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Sorry?   
   
 Q.   You have an asthma problem like a lot of people.   Is that part of the problem?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I do, I have asthma, but in Australia it wasn't problem.   It was pretty nice condition.   I play on Monday when it wasn't so hot as the next days.  
Yeah, I mean, sometimes it's bothering me more than I want, but that's part of my body of my life, and I have to get used to.   
   
 Q.   You have a new trainer?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I have a new fitness trainer.  
   
 Q.   New fitness trainer.   Can you say something about how you work, and is there an extra emphasis on fitness now?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I started in Monaco end of last season.   We are mostly like thinking about my movement on the court, so I'm more running, sprints, and something like this to be quicker, fitter on the court.   Nothing really like ‑‑nothing doing like very special but often (smiling).   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT