TEB BNP PARIBAS WTA CHAMPIONSHIPS
October 26, 2013
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. LI/P. Kvitova
  6‑4, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   You played this match in the afternoon.   Do you think that kind of affects your rhythm today?   Because   your last couple of matches you played in the night, and this was in the afternoon.   
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, I think that I use a lot of energy yesterday when I had to fight back in the match.   I was ready to fight again today, but unfortunately I didn't have everything in my quest to beat her.  
She played really well.   She didn't have like bad things.   In the second set I didn't have any big chance.  
   
 Q.   You have played both Li Na and Serena, which I think a lot of people are guessing might be the final tomorrow.   How would you judge each of their forms from what you saw on the other side of the net this week?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I played Serena, and I know that she's in great form now.   I didn't have any chance to her.   She has a big serve, everything, and I think that she likes to play the finals.   
About Li Na, I mean, she's great person, and she played really great here.   She won all matches in the group.   She beat today in semifinal.   
I think that she's very solid from the basic line.   She can play down the line, cross, she's moving very well, she's going for the volleys, too, so she's very consistent player, I think.  
   
 Q.   Is there anything that Li Na was able to do today in particular that surprised you how well she was able to execute certain shots or anything?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I know that she has a great backhand, so it was very difficult to read where she put it.   She has a great shot cross, so it was tough.  
   
 Q.   How do you assess your season?   How do you feel about your season now that it's come to a close?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, I think if somebody told me after the US Open that I will play semifinals here, I think that he's crazy, but now, I mean, I think it takes some days to look back at 2013.  
But I think it wasn't bad, this tournament, and all season was really up and down.     There was tough moments in this season, great moments.   I think that this tournament was still one of the best ones.  
   
 Q.   What do you expect out of yourself next year?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I don't think that the expectation, it's good for me.   I just need to play and improve and not think a lot about improvements.   I think it's not time to thinking about the next season yet.  
   
 Q.   I think over the course of the last couple of years you have kind of tended to get sick a lot.   We saw you blowing your nose a lot at the changeover, as well.   With the offseason coming up, is there any plan to kind of figure out why it is that you tend to get ill so often?   Is it the travel, or...   
PETRA KVITOVA:   I did some things after the US Open that I must take, and they found me some bacteria that I think I will have to do something with this next week probably.   So I hope the next season will be better.  
   
 Q.   It has been a good end of season for you.   Can you bring that into next year, or do you start from scratch in 2014?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I think every season is starting from the beginning.   The counting points is from the beginning.   Everybody is on the same level, and I don't think that when I starting 2014 Hopman Cup I will be thinking about the end of the season.  
So I think it's going to be new one.  
   
 Q.   What are your plans for offseason?   Any vacation?   Are you going to the Davis Cup final?   Any plans on that?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I will stay at home for one week, and I will go to London to support Radek, but unfortunately I can't go to Davis Cup.   I play exhibition in the Caribbean, so I think that I can do a little bit of relax there, too.   
   
 Q.   Do you think that Li Na might have a chance beating Serena in the finals, assuming Serena beats Jankovic tonight?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   It's always chance here, for sure, but I think Serena is favorite.   Li Na played really good this tournament, and I think if I be honest to say like 70% for Serena.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT