TEB BNP PARIBAS WTA CHAMPIONSHIPS
October 24, 2013
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. WILLIAMS/P. Kvitova
  6‑2, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   You just tweeted that Serena was just too good today.   What was your assessment of that match?   Were there things you could have done better to get it closer, or was she just going to steamroll anyway?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, how I write on Twitter, I think that she was really too good.   And she had a great serve today.   I think it was the big difference between us two.  
She played well, and, yeah, I mean, I need to improve my serve, for sure, to come compare to her.  
   
 Q.   Is that just the biggest difference between you two, just that simple?   There were times when you hit plenty of big winners, a lot of power.   
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, I think so.   The serve is the huge difference.   And from the baseline I think that we can play good rallies from both sides.   But the serve, I mean, she can hit almost 200 kilometers, so I don't think that my service can be that fast.  
   
 Q.   When you talk about improving your serve, what do you mean by that?   Do you mean bigger?   Do you mean percentage, placement?   
PETRA KVITOVA:   I think I didn't have a little bit percentage today, as first match here, but I think it's going to be faster and the placement can be better, too.   
   
 Q.   And then on the four break points that you did have, it looked like she just served a big ace and you had to walk to the other side of the court.   So how demoralizing is that?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, I think I had a chance for one break point in the first game in the match, so it was quite funny, but unfortunately I missed it.   But, yeah, I mean, that's why she's great player and champion.   On the break points she can hit huge serve.  
   
 Q.   When you're playing pretty well but you lose pretty convincingly to a player like that, what do you tell yourself?   How do you come out of it?   Do you say, Wow, just, you know, she was too good and no big deal?   Do you think, Wow, I have a lot of improvement to do to get to where I want to be, No. 1 or whatever?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I think both, because I know that she's in a different level than me, and she showed this today.  
I tried, but that didn't happen, I think.   I mean, I'm still in the tournament and tomorrow is another day.   I have still a chance to get to semifinal.   Today is a deciding match, and I need to get over it very soon and thinking about tomorrow positively.  
   
 Q.   Is it easy to forget about a loss and move on to the next match?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   Is it all simpler, I guess, for you psychologically now that you are in sort of like in a normal tournament where if you win tomorrow, you keep going, and if you don't, you lose, and it will be that way the rest of the way here?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, that's the different tournament.   I mean, for me, the first time when I lost the match and I'm going to play tomorrow still, have a chance to go from the group, so that's a little bit different, and for me it's a new experience again.  
So I'm glad to have it, and I need to keep fighting tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   If you can beat Serena eventually one day, do you think the indoor hard court is the favorite court you can do this, to beat Serena?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, it showed today I don't think so.   (Smiling).   I had a better match against her in Doha, but, yeah, I mean, I think she likes indoor, too.   
She can have a big serve indoor/outdoor.   I think for her it doesn't really matter.   I don't think that indoor helped me today a lot, so I don't know.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT