TEB BNP PARIBAS WTA CHAMPIONSHIPS
October 22, 2013
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 P. KVITOVA/A. Radwanska
  6‑4, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   The first win kind of sets the tone for you.   How do you feel right now?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I feel really well.   I mean, the first match is always tough in the Championships, and in the other tournaments, too.   I was nervous before the match.   I had memory for the last year when I lost her first match of the Championships, so I'm really glad that I won today.  
   
 Q.   You have incredibly first‑serve percentage today.   It's 75%, best in your season.   Was it the key to win today?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, I think that serve helped me a lot in the key points and during all these things.   It was great to hold it during the match, and we work quite hard the serve during the preparation before Championships, so I'm glad that it shows on the court.  
   
 Q.   How did you feel about the conditions out there today?   A lot of players have talked about it being very slow, the court, and that the balls get very fluffy very quickly.   Do you feel the same way?   
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, I feel same way, but I think that the first day when I practice on the center court was a little bit slower, so I think that during the week it's getting a little bit faster.  
I think that last year it was very similar, maybe same.   2011 was the same way as today.  
   
 Q.   Tomorrow you get one day rest.   Do you think it's good or it's a little maybe early for you, for the rest to come so early?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I think that it's quite okay.   I finished quite late today, so I'm glad that I have a day off tomorrow that I can practice a little bit and take rest in the afternoon and have some more energy for the next match.  
   
 Q.   Your serve and your forehand are always talked about as your weapons.   Tonight maybe your return of serve and your backhand you were also playing very aggressive.   Can you talk about those?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   About my serve and forehand?   
   
 Q.   No, that's what's talked about as your weapons.   Tonight your return of serve and your backhand were both good.   You were playing aggressive.   
PETRA KVITOVA:   I think that the return from the first set could be better, for sure.   I missed a lot of return from her second serve.   It took some time to feel much more confident on the surface and with her serve.   Then it was a little bit better.  
Yeah, my backhand down the line wasn't work very well today, but the crosscourt was very important in the key points when I was really just pushing through the court.  
   
 Q.   Do you think you don't want to play another three‑sets match?   
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, finally I play only two sets.   Big surprise for you, right?   
Yeah, I think that to start with the two sets is great against Aga, too.   For me it really doesn't matter if I win two or three.   So I won.   That's it.   
   
 Q.   You have answered this question before, but you have a very good record indoors.   Why do you like playing indoors so much?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Why?   That's a good question, actually.   But when I was young and I was practicing at home with my father in the wintertime we played always indoor on the fast surface, but in the last couple of years I think that the conditions are still same.   No sun or wind, so nothing interrupt my game and my aggressive sometimes flat shots.  
So I think that it's helpful.  
   
 Q.   You and Serena are in the same group.   Please talk about the matchup for you.   
PETRA KVITOVA:   I think that it's going to be tough match every match when I'm playing here.   I don't think that today was easy match for me, but of course with Serena is a big favorite of our group and of all Championships, but for me it's a big challenge to face her in the match in the group, so I'm looking forward for the match.   
And she played well today.   She start pretty aggressively today.   And, yeah, that's it.   
   
 Q.   Looking at your year, what would it mean to you to walk away from Istanbul with a title here?   What would it mean for your year?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I think it's quite soon to talk about.   It's only one match, and I don't think that I really can answer this question.   I'm still, after first match, I'm not really thinking about the title here yet (smiling).   
   
 Q.   You're going to play the Hopman Cup with Radek next year.   When did you make this decision to play together in the tournament, and what kind of result do you think you will get?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Why we play?   
   
 Q.   Why you made the decision to play together.   
PETRA KVITOVA:   Why?   
   
 Q.   Yeah.   
PETRA KVITOVA:   Okay.   Why?   I actually played 2012 with Tomas already, and it was great preparation for the Australia tournaments.   No, I asked if he wants to play with me, and he said that that is going to be nice for him.   So that was the first thing we made it.   And what is the result?   I think that we are going to direct just for the title.   
   
 Q.   So that means you're going to, if that means you're going to train together in winter training time, or you are still going to train differently, separately, or...   
PETRA KVITOVA:   I don't think that I can practice with him, for sure.   I think we will have two separate preparations.  
   
 Q.   You said you were working on your serve before coming here.   What was going on there where you felt like you needed to improve?   Was there something specific that was not working for you?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Maybe I said a little bit badly.   I was working on everything, but the serve was one of the priority in the time, because it's indoor and it's nothing can interrupt, how I said already.   
It wasn't really anything going special in my serve, just practice more balls maybe.   And I was healthy.   I didn't feel any pain.   So it was good that I really could practice in the moment.  
I tried to have a little bit better second serve with a spin.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT