WIMBLEDON
July 1, 2013
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







P. KVITOVA/C. Suarez Navarro
  7‑6, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   It wasn't an easy one, but getting to the quarters after a bit of a struggle is satisfying?
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, for sure.   I was pretty nervous today.   I know I have quite a good chance to beat her and to be in the quarterfinal here. 
I mean, I didn't play my best today, especially in the first set.   But, I mean, is important to win the last point what I did, so... 
It was important for me.   Now I have to be focusing for tomorrow. 

Q.   Do you take confidence that you're battling through these matches?
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, I hope so.   I mean, today was available my mentally side, and I was quite positively.   I think it helped me a lot to stay positive and fight about every point. 

Q.   You will still be the big favorite in the next match.   Do you think you will be as nervous as today?
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, who knows.   I will tell you tomorrow.   But I lost against her last time in Miami.   So I hope that I can play better tennis than in the last match, try my best. 
We never play on the grass, which is quite difficult.   She has to play quite well, because otherwise she's not in the quarterfinals.   So I have to be prepared.

Q.   Is it surprising for you to see the other players left in your half of the draw?
PETRA KVITOVA:   I think this tournament is big surprise, like global.   So, I mean, for me it's not like big surprise.   I'm just thinking about the next opponent.   For me doesn't matter who is on the other side. 
I think it's a little bit more pressure then because everybody expecting that I win.   That's something what it's not easy. 

Q.   What do you want to improve in your game at the moment?
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, I think I need to be more relaxed, for sure, in the beginning of the match.   If I'm looking back for today match, that's something what I really need to do, be more relaxed.   Then it's going to be better in the mind, too. 

Q.   How much do you think about the trophy you won here in 2011? 
PETRA KVITOVA:   I'm not thinking about it right now.   I mean, that's two years ago.   This is different year, different tournament for me. 
It's still quite open.   I'm still in the draw.   I don't think that it's like really good to thinking about the past.   I'm thinking about tomorrow, that's it. 

Q.   Is it any pressure to see the draw, your part of the draw, thinking it's a good shot? 
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, I think so.   I mean, everybody is talking about that I'm highest seeded player in my half, I supposed to be already in the final.   That's something what it's not really easy to hear it. 
Otherwise, I mean, the girls who are in this rounds, they have to play best, too.   I mean, they are in good form, they are in good shape.   That's quite tricky for us. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT