AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 26, 2020
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
P. KVITOVA/M. Sakkari   
6-7, 6-3, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  What adjustments did you make after the first set?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I think, you know, from the beginning it was a lot of nerves out there. I didn't feel the best. I was just, you know, too tight and everything was flying somewhere.   
But, like, with the time on I just get probably used to and I started to play a little bit better, more free. And so even I lost the first set, I started to feel much better in the end of the first set, I mean, the game-wise.   
And that's what I tried to still keep it up for the second. It was about two games maybe in the second set in the beginning when I hold my serve when I was down, and I started to serve a little bit better. I was played it from one side which the sun is there, and you can't really see anything. So I was thinking that probably I will do from the down, but was pretty tough that time (smiling).   
Yeah, I think that, you know, in the end of the day was about fighting spirit in a way. Even I didn't play the best, Maria played really great tennis, and it was nice to share court with her, for sure.   
Yeah, I'm so happy that in the end I felt my game again.   
 Q.  The Greek fans, curious how they were with you today?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, actually when I was shaking the hand with the umpire, I told him it was like a soccer match today.   
Yeah, I mean, it's nice on one side. On the other side, it's the tennis, and it's not a Fed Cup.   
Yeah, it's strange. But, like, to me, it didn't bother me at all.   
 Q.  Did it fire you up? It seemed like you got, as the match went on, a little bit more intense.  
PETRA KVITOVA: No, it didn't fire me up. I think my box fired me up (smiling).   
 Q.  Do you ever ask your team what it's like to watch you in matches?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Actually, I don't have to ask them, and they always say it to me, especially after today's match. They said sometimes they are, you know, crazy, doing stupid stuff. But they are believing it's helping me.   
So I can't really imagine myself if I'm in the box and cheering for someone, I would be probably the same.   
So it's very understandable. It's a lot of nerves for them for sure, as well. Maybe sometimes more, because they can't really do anything. I'm the one who can change something or do something more, not them.   
So it has to be difficult, yes. Especially with my game (smiling).   
 Q.  Can you talk about your possible next opponents, Ash Barty or Alison Riske.  
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah. Ash obviously we have played many times. We played here last year in the quarters. I like her. She's a great person. Will be a great matchup if we play.   
Yeah, I mean, whatever will happen will happen. I mean, one of us will go through. It's a tough match, for sure. I try my best, and we'll see how that goes.   
But Alison, last time I lost her in Wuhan. She is very dangerous. You know, she likes to play down the line a lot, very flat shots. Yeah, she has been playing very well. It will be difficult, as well.   
 Q.  How much do you think it will help having played Ash here in the same round last year? She played very well in that match last year. How much do you think that experience will help next time?  
PETRA KVITOVA: It depends if help or no, but we'll see.   
 Q.  Can't hurt.  
PETRA KVITOVA: You know, I think Ash is great. She has to have such a big pressure on her. She's dealing with it like probably nobody else. That's really something why she is deserving to be No. 1 and won a Grand Slam.   
We'll see. It will be great match anyway. Sharing court with her, it's always a pleasure. Doesn't matter what the score will be but will be nice.   
 Q.  You showed a lot of respect for one another after the game. Would you consider her a rising tennis player?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Definitely, she is. I played her in Miami last year. I played a good game, but since then I think that she's really playing better and better. I lost to her in Cincinnati last year, and I think that she really put a lot of work to her game.   
I think that she really -- she's very talented, she has a great touch, as we saw today, as well. She has a mix of the shots.   
She has everything for the good game and really she's playing much better.   
 Q.  Since we last saw you in here after your previous win, six top-10 players left the tournament. Is that exciting?  
PETRA KVITOVA: That's true. Just one day.   
 Q.  Just one round. Is that exciting for you?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I think it's more exciting for you guys (smiling). Not really for me. I don't really care. Of course I know that some of them lost, but that's the tennis. That's the sport.   
We see how the tennis is open, every week probably we see it. On the one hand, it's surprise. On the other hand it's not really that surprising. Yeah.   
It's not that exciting for me, anyway.   
 Q.  Making semifinals in Brisbane and now making at least the quarterfinals here in Melbourne, given how the last half of your season was last year, and I know how frustrating it was, how much confidence and how pleased are you to be able to start the year this well so far?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Actually, to be honest, I'm very pleased, because I didn't play the tournament before the Grand Slam in this time, which is a big difference. So I have been here from Tuesday on already. The time is still flying. For me, it doesn't really feel that I'm here so many days already.   
So that's very good time, for sure, because before I was a bit struggling with this. Seeing all the players even the week before and having the pressure. So I think it's really good step for me, for sure.   
Of course it's helped that I play semifinal in Brisbane, so I had some matches under my belt before it. So it's been great beginning of the season.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT