ROGERS CUP WOMEN
August 9, 2013
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. CIRSTEA/P. Kvitova
  3‑6, 7‑5, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Where to start?   The first set was okay, and then after that it seemed like everything sort of fell apart.   You weren't serving like you normally do.   Even off the ground it was hard.   Talk about what was happening there.   
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, beginning of the second set I starting to feel a little bit low of the energy that shows, shows what I played.   The serve was really bad after this, and I didn't find energy from my legs.   So that's why it looks that bad.  
   
 Q.   So you were tired?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yep.  
   
 Q.   Because what?   I mean, it's quarterfinals.   
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, it is, unfortunately, and when I finished so late the match here, I didn't sleep well after this.   I mean, the sleep is, for me, it's very important, I think the important thing for my recovery.   
ThatI was missing, so probably this.   I still had a chance to win the second set, and I was pretty close.   And I came back and I tried to find, but unfortunately I didn't.   
So in the third set and in the beginning I had a chance to keep my serve first game, and it was ‑‑it was some mistakes, and it was quite tough to come back in the third again.  
   
 Q.   So with your serve I think you double‑faulted six break points.   Is it because you're not getting the push on your legs that you need?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, I think so.   I think that it was starting because of physically, and then it's going to my mind it was the mental problem, too.   It's always connected.  
   
 Q.   There were quite a few long rally points.   Did that sort of throw you off your preferred rhythm for the game?   Obviously add maybe to your fatigue?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   And you're asking for?   
   
 Q.   I'm asking you, did that throw you off your rhythm a bit, the long points?   Did that contribute to your fatigue?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, I don't think so.   I mean, I was ready for long rallies, too.   I mean, she's playing really well.   I knew that there would be not easy match.  
I know that she sometimes playing for one, two shots.   But how she shows today, she can play rallies   too.   It was important to stay in the rallies, but I think that I did quite well today, and unfortunately I had a few easy mistakes what I think changed the game for her.  
   
 Q.   Is it particularly disappointing when you are eliminated from a tournament where you are the defending champion?   Can you just address that a little bit.   
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, you know, I was defending champion, but still it's a new tournament.   Every year it's different.   I wasn't thinking like this.   
So I'm glad that I was in the quarterfinal.   I play three matches.   That's important to play some matches before the US Open as a preparation.   Of course I'm sad because I have pretty nice memories from the last year and I can't replay this year, but I'm still stay positive.   That's important for me to thinking about the next day and next tournament.  
   
 Q.   After the first set, did you expect Sorana to take over?   Were you surprised?   Did you anticipate that?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   After first?   
   
 Q.   After the first set.   
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, I knew that she can come back, for sure.   I mean, when we played in Rome she came back too and in the second set, and I was ready for it.   I know that otherwise she's now in the quarterfinal and now in the semifinal.   I don't think that she can give up.   For sure not.  
   
 Q.   Any particular reason why you didn't sleep well?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   No.   (Laughter.)   It's always when I'm finished quite late, it's quite tough for me to fall asleep.   Then it's still continue like this.  
   
 Q.   So you were like up all night watching TV?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I was trying to sleep, but unfortunately I couldn't.   (Smiling).   
   
 Q.   Given that you finished late, did you think about or was it too late I guess to ask for a night match, or were you hoping to get a night session?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, I like night session.   I mean, I don't care when I am playing.   The other thing is that I'm going to bed pretty late, but it's not my‑‑ I mean, I like to play night session, so that's happen sometimes.  
   
 Q.   You said that you couldn't sleep, so did you perhaps try and picture the match, do some mental preparation?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, I'm always trying to prepare for the next match, for sure.   
   
 Q.   Especially last night with not being able to sleep.   
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, not really special.   I mean, I'm always thinking the next opponent and next match, so it seems that I'm like didn't sleep like any hour, but I slept few hours, for sure, but it wasn't enough to play my best in the second and third set against Sorana.   
She played very well, so I don't think that it's because that I didn't sleep.   That's still she play very well, and she deserved to win today.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT