ROGERS CUP WOMEN
August 8, 2013
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 P. KVITOVA/S. Stosur
  6‑3, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Maybe the best you played on hard court since you came back?   Pretty impressive overall?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Um, well, I didn't play a lot of matches on the hard court right now, so I can say that, yeah, one of the best matches right now.   
Yeah, I was expecting tough match what was for sure.   I mean, the score looks quite easily but it wasn't.   It was very close games and important points.   
Yeah, I'm glad that I'm through.  
   
 Q.   I guess against her the key is to make sure she doesn't control the points, no?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, I believe that she's quite tired after the round what she has, and it was important to stay in the rallies and not to have a lot of mistakes, and that was the key I think for today.  
   
 Q.   You're facing Sorana Cirstea tomorrow.   Have you faced her before, and are you thinking how to go about the match?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, I faced her.   I mean, she's playing very aggressively too.   She had great matches.   She played very well, and it will be important to stay focused for every point.  
She's playing very aggressively and going for the winners, same game as me.   We will see tomorrow, but I'm looking forward.  
   
 Q.   You were saying it's important to stay in the rallies because you knew that Sam was probably a little tired after Carlsbad last week, but against Cirstea, is that sort of the same thing where you want to make sure to extend her a little bit?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   No, it will be quite shaky, because if I will play only the rallies, then I will be the second player on the court and that's not my game.  
So I have to be really focused and play my game but not with the mistakes.   Maybe to stay like more in the rally, but it's quite shaky, and I will see during the match, for sure.  
   
 Q.   Were you surprised that she was able to beat Wozniacki and Jankovic back to back in a short period of time?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Um, not really.   I mean, I know that she has a good game to beat Caroline, what she showed.   And against Jelena, I didn't expect anything.   I mean, it was quite open matches with Caroline, but I think if Cirstea is playing very well and she has a lot of winners, then she can beat anyone, for sure.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT