DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS WOMEN
February 19, 2013
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







P. KVITOVA/D. Hantuchova
  6‑2, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   You're playing very well at the moment.   Were you pleased to have got through that so quickly?
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, of course, it doesn't matter how I can win the match, but I won it quite quickly.   But, I mean, it was good match for me, and I'm glad that I can still play better from Doha.

Q.   I think a player of her quality with such a score suggests you're playing either rather well or something unusual happened there.   What do you think it was?
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, I'm not the person who is looking on the score.   So, I mean, it seems like very quickly and very easy, but some games was very close.   So I think that it's not only about the score.   But anyway, I mean, that was good match from my side.

Q.   In terms of your year, talk about ‑‑you obviously have had a great start.   You had a great match against Williams and starting out so well here. 
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, I mean, at the beginning of the season I wish better results.   But anyway, it was beginning of the season, and I changed a little bit my fitness preparation so I need some time to get used to.
I'm glad how I played in Doha.   I mean, I fight the second round against Petrova, and then I played so well against Serena.   I was quite close to the match, but anyway, I'm glad I can continue this game.

Q.   Can you say what you changed with the fitness preparation?
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, I changed my fitness coach.   So it's different exercises, and I'm working on different muscles.   That, I think I have to get used to and continue with this preparation and to show it on the court then.

Q.   Is it giving away too much to say what different muscles?
PETRA KVITOVA:   It's too much.   I don't know.   (Smiling.)   It's question for my fitness coach, anyway.

Q.   You look a lot fitter.   Your match against Serena was superb.
PETRA KVITOVA:   Thank you.

Q.   Do you feel that you're playing at a higher level now than for a year or so?
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, I mean, yeah, I hope so.   I'm working hard on my movement and on my body, on my muscles.
So it's how I said already.   I have to take some time to feel it in the game then.

Q.   What is it, in terms of last year‑‑ I mean, you won Wimbledon and there were a lot of expectations.   Last year you kind of fell off a little bit.   What happened last year?   What was the difference?   Now that you're playing better, what are your expectations for this year?
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, I mean, last season I think that it wasn't as bad as you said.   I think it was quite a solid year for me.   I had two semifinals in the Grand Slams. 
And after 2011 I was prepared for the pressure, and I think that I ‑‑I think it was quite okay.   I stayed in top 10.   I played Championships.   So I think it was a pretty solid year for me.

Q.   When you talk about pressure, you played where you have won a slam.   Where is the pressure?   Surely doing well should take the pressure off of you. 
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, when you step on the court against someone who has nothing to lose against me, that's tough.   They play like really good tennis.
And everything is like on me, and that's different way to look on the match then.

Q.   There is a bit of talk going around that there is a rivalry building between Serena and Vika.   Do you subscribe to that?   Do you consider those two maybe to be a rung or two above yourself and Radwanska and a few of the others?
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, I can't say like this.   I mean, it's still beginning of the season.   It's just February.   So, I mean, it's still some time. 
But we saw a great final, Serena against Azarenka.   I mean, Maria plays well, too, and Agnieszka, too.   It's quite good players.

Q.   Would you say that the match against Petrova last week could be a turning point?   Because you were fighting a lot of breaks second set, and since then it seems like you have gained a lot of confidence.   I feel there is slight difference. 
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, I can't say that it's like turning point, but it was very important match for me, for sure.   I was down in the second and the third set, and I came back and I won those two sets but it was very important.
Then I had a great match against Serena what I was really looking forward to play her.   I mean, it was good match, but I hope that the confidence will come with these results, of course, and with the game.

Q.   You play Ana Ivanovic next. 
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, we played sometimes already.   I remember the last time we played, final of the Fed Cup, and she played very well.
I have to be prepared for everything.   She's playing so fast, very aggressively, as me, so it will be a very interesting match, I think.

Q.   Doping is quite a prominent issue in sports at the moment, and I was just wondering, Roger Federer has come out and said more needs to be done.   I was just wondering, in the wake of one of your Fed Cup teammates who has been given a suspension, unwittingly taking a stimulant, I was wondering if you had any thoughts on that?
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, I don't know anything about, and I can't comment to this. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT