WIMBLEDON
June 29, 2013
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 P. KVITOVA/K. Makarova
  6‑3, 2‑6, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   What was the difference between yesterday and today?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   It was another day for me.   Yesterday when we start to play was quite close every game, and we were keeping our serves with 3‑All.   Then after suspended, I play so well, I came back to the court.   I was really on fire.   
But, I mean, some easy mistakes came again.   Was quite difficult to came back in the match.   So I was quite glad that it was quite dark and we are continue today.   
And I knew that still to play this match, was quite difficult to play Makarova on the grass.   She's playing quite good on the grass.   So, I mean, it was pretty tough.   
Yeah, I played really well.   I should go for every point and play my game.   So I played quite aggressively.   That was the key.   
   
 Q.   No problem with the grass?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   No problem with the grass today (smiling).   
   
 Q.   How important was that win mentally for you?   
PETRA KVITOVA:   I think that a lot.   I expected very tough match against Ekaterina.   I lost against her last time when we play on the grass at Eastbourne.   I know she likes to play on the grass, as me, and she won the Eastbourne.   So she pretty likes it.   
I know that it's third round.   I didn't play second round.   It was quite tricky not to play three days a match.   Yeah, I hope that I take some confidence from this match.  
   
 Q.   Do you think you will?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I hope so.   
   
 Q.   When was the last time you felt that you were playing the kind of tennis that you wanted to play, that you felt you were playing really well in a particular tournament?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, I think when I played first round, I start pretty well this match.   That way I felt really confident on the grass.   And I have to say yesterday when I came after suspended, I played really good, too.   And today, too.   
   
 Q.   Where do you feel your game is compared to two years ago?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   That's quite difficult question for me.   I mean, I'm not the person who likes to comparing some years.   
Of course, 2011 I played really well.   I mean, I play my best, for sure.   Every shot was going to the court.   
It's not the same this year.   But, I mean, I have some good things in my game what really seems like 2011.   But I drop off little bit.   It's always little bit up and down, but I hope it will be more up than down.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel if you can erase these inconsistencies you can challenge again?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, I hope so.   I like to play on the grass.   I have nice memories from 2011.   Of course, I will try my best to play every match for 100% and try to win every match.   
   
 Q.   What do you think about your next opponent?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I know I'm playing Suarez Navarro.   I played her in Brisbane.   I mean, she is quite tricky opponent.   She is from Spanish, but she can play good on the grass, how we see.   She has a great slice, so it will be very difficult for me to play against her.   
I mean, we know each other quite well.   She's very talented player.   So I have to play same as today.   
   
 Q.   You're not thinking about what's next after Suarez?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I didn't look who is next.   I mean, who I'm playing now, and that's it for me.   
   
 Q.   We know you're a very private person.   There's some stuff floating around now about your private life.   Is that something that's difficult to cope with, or have you been dealing with it okay?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, I'm here to play tennis.   That's what I thinking right now.   That's very important tournament for me.   I had a quite tough matches in my back.   So I'm focusing on my tennis now.  
   
 Q.   What is the most important thing for you as you go along in the rest of the tournament if you're going to be successful?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I think when I played today, I felt really confident on the court.   It's quite difficult for me to keep this level for all match, I think.   Always I have some moment where I'm not playing really well.   I think that's the key for playing better, like all match.   
I mean, I have to say that sometimes it's a little bit trouble with my serve and I do some double‑faults.   I think that's the key, too.   
   
 Q.   You say sometimes in your matches you're a little bit up and down.   Why do you think that is?   Do you think there's something you can do to work on that to avoid the peaks in the matches?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I think it's for sure the mentally side that I have to be focus on every point, just thinking about the next point, not about the past.   
You know, if I know the answer, my matches are not up and down, of course.   That's something what I have to improve to play my good tennis.   
   
 Q.   Looking back to last year, was it difficult being the defending champion?   Is it a little bit easier this year because you're not?   
PETRA KVITOVA:   I feel more relaxed this year, for sure.   I mean, last year was quite narrow for me to play on the Centre Court as the defending champion.   Also lot of new experiences for me, which I'm really glad to have it for sure.   
I mean, this year I'm feeling more relaxed, just thinking about my game, not the time as a defending champion here.   
But I think it's a little bit like less pressure on me.   
   
 Q.   You said it's hard to keep your level during every match.   Do you feel tired?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   No, I'm not feeling tired.   I said that I have to keep one level, I hope, quite high level all the match, not like that every match is different.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT