DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS WOMEN
February 23, 2013
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 P. KVITOVA/S. Errani
  6‑2, 1‑6, 6‑1 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Congratulations.   Up‑and‑down match, wasn't it?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Oh, yeah.   I mean, that's women's tennis (smiling).  
No, anyway, it was great final, and I think that Sara played so well.   It was really tough to beat her.   She came back in the second set.   She played really well.   She was going for the net a lot, and that was a little bit problem for me.  
That was very important to stay positive in the third and still fighting about every point.  
   
 Q.   You had to fight hard to stop her breaking you in the third, as well.   What managed to turn it around in the end?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   You know, it was ‑‑I remember was 40‑Love, and she missed the return.   And then I was going for the balls, and someone from crowd just said, Two aces.   
I said, Okay.   It's not bad.   (Smiling.)  
I know the first serve was great.   She didn't catch it.   But the second, I don't remember very well, but I think it was quite easy, good serve, and that was why I won the game, I think, in the end.  
   
 Q.   You hit a few double faults tonight.   What was going wrong with the serve?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well I had trouble with my shoulder all week and Doha, too.   I'm still fighting about.   
Yeah, I know that it's a lot of double faults, and it wasn't really good in my mind to thinking about it.   But anyway, I mean, I played another top‑10 player.   That's okay.  
   
 Q.   How did you finish so strongly?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, I know that I have to fight like every ball, because that was something what she was really on fire in the second and she continued in the third.  
I was just thinking that I can't give up and just fighting about every point.   I think, you know, when it was 2‑1 and she missed the volley on the net that I think was turning point for me.  
   
 Q.   You must be very happy with how mentally you handled that third set, right?   Is it more of a mental thing?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, for sure.   I think in the third was really the mental side, because in the second she played so well and I didn't have answer for it.  
I was quite down.   I mean, I was in the locker room and I was thinking that, really, that I can stay in the positive and just play.   
   
 Q.   2011 was obviously an amazing year for you, winning Wimbledon, ending the year World No. 2.   Last year it was maybe a little bit harder, slipping in rankings slightly.   Do you see this potentially as being the spring board to sort of really challenging the elites?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, you know, I think that 2011 was really incredible year for me.   2012 I knew that it would be very tough to replay everything what I did in 2011.   
I think it was pretty solid year for me, and I had two semifinals in Grand Slams.   This year I didn't start pretty well, but I'm glad how I'm playing right now.   That's the important thing for me.  
I mean, I'm not thinking like this is turning point or turning tournament for me, anyway.   It's a lot of great players in the top, and that's hard to beat them.  
I'm still thinking about my game.   That's the priority for me.  
   
 Q.   You played three very good movers in a row.   Obviously a tough draw.   Are you pleased with the fact that you can handle these kind of players?   How do you feel you are moving on the court?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, yeah, I'm really pleased how I played all tournament.   Not only last three matches, because against Ana was a little bit different match and she's playing so fast.   So I had like a lot of different players in the tournament.  
It was great that I handled it quite okay.   Yeah, I mean, I beat three girls from the top 10, so that means something.   I hope so (smiling).  
Yeah, I will try and improve.  
   
 Q.   Looking ahead, do you think Wimbledon will be your best chance again as a slam this year?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, I love Wimbledon, so I hope so.   I love to play on the grass, and for me Wimbledon is always special.   You know, I had great memories, and the feeling what I had after the final in '11 was amazing.   
I think that the Wimbledon will be always in my heart as the best tournament of the world.   About the chances, I think Serena can play so well on the grass, too.   That's not only about her, of course.   I mean, Vika and Maria play so well, too.   Always can surprise some of the players.   
Anyway, I mean, if I am thinking right now, it's not Wimbledon is my priority right now.   I mean, I have a few tournaments ahead right now, and that's my priority now.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about the organization here, the tournament site, the setting?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, it was ‑‑I mean, the hotel, it's pretty close and it's so easy.   When I played at 7:00 I was until 5:30 in the room and lying in the bed.  
So that was really nice.   I was just two minutes to on‑site.   I think that's very helpful and that's great.   
I wasn't here last year, but anyway, this year was, I mean, amazing.   The organization, everything was easy.   
I mean, the girls in the organization desk was so nice.   That was really everything was great.  
   
 Q.   How did you communicate with your coach this week?   Maybe he will have a longer vacation?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Not really.   That's nice if I'm going alone somewhere.   But anyway, it's not good a lot to have it.   
He e‑mailed me every day about my next opponent.   He knows exactly what I'm feeling if he is not here.   
I mean, he was really glad, and I think that for him is great to have a vacation to relax and to be ready for me.   
   
 Q.   Do you think there is also top 3 or top 4 in women's tennis like in men's tennis?   And are you confident you can be part of it this season?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, I just won one tournament this year yet, and, you know, Serena, Vika Maria, I think that they are really in the high position.   
Serena and Vika are really comparing a lot.   I saw the final of Doha, and it was really nice match.   I can't say that we are like four or five great, great players in the top 10 as in the men.   I mean, the men, it's very incredible how they are going there.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT