DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS WOMEN
February 22, 2013
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 P. KVITOVA/C. Wozniacki
  6‑3, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   That must have felt good.   
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, yeah, for sure.   I mean, I'm really happy that I'm in the final, and I'm really glad how I played today.   
Yeah, I mean, it was great match.  
   
 Q.   What do you think made the difference between you today?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, you know, we are like different players, and she's trying to turn on a lot and put the balls back.   I am the person who is playing aggressively and going for the winners.   That's really depends how if I'm missing a lot or no.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel she stepped up a bit in the second set?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, for sure.   I felt like she's trying to play more aggressively.   She's going for the big serve, first serve.   She tried to play a little bit quicker.  
   
 Q.   You play Errani in the final.   Can you look ahead.   
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, we played already some times.   You know, she's top‑10 player, and she's trying to play a little bit similar or she's trying to move well.   She has a good forehand with a big spin and quite fast on the backhand.  
I think that it will tough match tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   You're clearly playing very well at the moment, some of us think the best you have played for a year or so.   If you agree with that, what do you think the reasons are?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, I'm thinking about it doesn't start right now.   I think I'm feeling quite well, and I think that the hard work that I did in the off‑season and January, it show on the court finally.   
That's something very important to get to my mind and to thinking.   It's everything in a good way, and I think that I feel very comfortable.  
I played some matches, I practiced a lot, I wasn't injured, so I could practice a lot.   That's why maybe I'm like prepared.  
   
 Q.   When you said "well," did you have sickness as well as loss of fitness?   Did you have health issues as well as a fitness issue?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, I think so that it's together.   I was quite injured last year, and that was my priority at the beginning of the season, that I would try to be more healthy and prepare for the tournaments what I am.   So that's the good sign.  
   
 Q.   With your style of game, is confidence the most important thing?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, I think so.   I mean, of course I have to practice a lot.   Then if I'm feeling quite good and I'm feeling the balls and I believe to myself that I can play really good tennis as I played in 2011, for example, that's mean a lot for me, and of course it's important for my confidence.  
   
 Q.   And when you're playing well, do you feel you can beat anybody?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, not really.   I mean, I'm just thinking about the opponent and the time and not about some other players.  
   
 Q.   Last year, if I'm not mistaken, perhaps your timing on your forehand was a bit off and it wasn't as strong a shot as it is now.   I mean, have you had to rediscover that shot in the past year or so since the Wimbledon victory?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   You know, I think that it wasn't just like about the one thing.   I think that it was everything like together that I had to defend a lot, and I felt the pressure.   I think it's like everything together.   It's not about one shot.  
But anyway, I mean, we are practicing still on everything, and same with my forehand because I know that I can play quite fast from the forehand, and it's my big stroke.  
   
 Q.   You have beaten the past two Dubai champions in the past two rounds.   That must be a good sign ahead of tomorrow.   
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, for sure, but every match is different.   Same tomorrow.   I think Sara had great results in the past, so I think, you know, she played quite well today.   She beat Petrova yesterday.   I think there will be a tough match tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   You said the other day you have changed your fitness program.   Are you feeling the benefits of that already?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, I'm trying not thinking a lot about it, because I did it and my body was quite confused from this.   
So I'm trying to be just on the court and not thinking a lot like what I changed and what I didn't.   So, I mean, that still need some time to set up and then to show on the game.  
   
 Q.   Do you mind my asking what you meant by your body was confused?   It reacted badly to the training, or...   
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, I try to explain it.   I mean, yeah, I'm trying to be more like stronger on my legs, for example, and to have like stronger muscles.   That's why I can be more quicker, for example, and to stay quite low for the fast shots.  
So, I mean, that's something what I didn't like do in the past.   And I'm trying ‑‑ you know, I'm still thinking about the worst position what I had before, so now I'm trying to have the good position, and that's why I'm like quite confused.   I hope that it's okay right now.  
   
 Q.   How is playing in Dubai different from playing any other city?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, I mean, I'm playing ‑‑I don't remember the last tournaments.   I mean, this year what I heard is changed the surface a little bit.   
But anyway, I mean, I think that all outdoor tournaments are very similar, but, you know, the crowd and the atmosphere here is very nice.   I'm enjoying every moment on the center court and on the tournament, sure.   
I mean, I didn't have a chance to go somewhere.   I'm still playing in the night, so I can't go anywhere during the day.  
   
 Q.   Anywhere you want to go specifically?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, I don't have really a specific place because I didn't have time.   So maybe if I will, I find something.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT