BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL
January 7, 2020
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








P. KVITOVA/A. Pavlyuchenkova
2-6, 6-1, 6-0
THE MODERATOR: First question.
Q. An interesting first round match from you. Can you talk through it a little bit. I mean, it seemed like it just took a little bit of time to warm up for you.
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, it's, it took me awhile. Well, we played also many times, we practiced here before the draw came out all the time, so it was kind of funny to see it. And, yeah, I know how she well she's playing. I think she worked pretty hard in the off-season with Sam and it was a bit different, for sure, but I tried I'm going to wait for some approach opportunities, which came in the first set but I couldn't just make them. And I was just continuing to play, which I believed, which finally that happened in the match and I turned it around afterwards and I felt pretty good on the court.
Q. How did you feel just with conditions and everything? Is it a different ball this year here than in the past? Is it playing any differently for you?
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, we do have the Dunlop this time, which I already practice in Europe with them and actually I like them. So they're a little bit heavier I think and they're flying pretty nicely. I think we are playing Madrid with them, actually. Madrid has altitude so it is a bit different in a way. But yeah, it was flying from both of us, so it was kind of challenging as well.
Q. How was your off-season overall? How was your preparation? How are you feeling?
PETRA KVITOVA: My off-season, it was short (laughing) but good. I spent two weeks in Dubai and then I was continuing to work back in Europe playing more tennis. In Dubai was most of the time the fitness preparation. I did a little bit different things than the years before, so hopefully it will be good.
Q. What kind of new things did you try?
PETRA KVITOVA: Actually, it's not a new one, but I worked most of the time on the strength and to be a little bit stronger probably than before.
Q. What kind of strength drills? Are you bench pressing or?
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I do have more muscle now. You don't see it?
Q. Yeah (laughing).
PETRA KVITOVA: Not that much, okay. I'm going to work more (laughing).
Q. I was wondering if the injury you had last year in the left arm, if it forced you to change something in the off-season?
PETRA KVITOVA: Luckily, no. I was just having more treatment on the forearm, which I need to do to make it stronger and not to happen anymore. But it will be more challenging to playing on the clay probably because I think that the injury came actually in Paris, and I think it's probably from the clay because I tried to play more top spin, which is pretty unusual for me. So I tried it and it wasn't all that bad when I won at Stuttgart, but yeah, I think it's happened from that, so I just need to be more careful on it.
Q. How would you react to you performance of today?
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I think I played pretty solid, pretty good, if I'm not counting the first set. But in the end of the first set, I think I find a little bit of me, finally. And I was just stayed there and be positive, which that makes the difference is afterwards, which it was a first two, three games in the second set that was kind of the point when the match turned it around.
Q. You've played this tournament a few times before. Obviously, this is a different setup this year with the ATP Cup coming in, and all the women's matches first round and some of the second round are all on the outside courts, just curious what your thoughts are on that change?
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, first of all, I defend my points from the last year, finally, so that's good. Actually, to be honest, I'm like for me it doesn't really matter, but I just feel that it's kind of weird that the ATP Cup pushed us to the outside courts. I know that the setup on the center court is just for the ATP Cup, but I just don't feel it's pretty fair. But hopefully I will be able to play on the center court.
Q. Have you talked to anybody about this? Anybody at WTA or the tournament about it?
PETRA KVITOVA: No, just talking with you. And I talk with Chase before.
Q. Okay. WTA said it was a transition year for this tournament.
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, it's pretty understandable. It's the first year for them and it's only one city, which is combined, so I think it's pretty difficult for them as well. So I'm not really complaining anything, but I just feel a bit sad for the women's field.
Q. I was wondering if you are concerned for the conditions in Melbourne, for example, with the chance to play with the air quality that is going to change maybe day by day, depends upon the wind?
PETRA KVITOVA: Actually, I saw some pictures on the internet. It doesn't look great. And, yeah, hopefully that will be over soon, but I don't know what I can say, maybe we just need to close the roof and we going to play on the three courts.
Q. I'm guessing that you would not have a problem if Melbourne became an indoor tournament.
PETRA KVITOVA: No, actually, I know it's, as I said, it's sad, but if it's indoor, then it's okay.
Q. Do you feel different coming to Australia now that you've made a Grand Slam final here, that it's a more successful place for you than before?
PETRA KVITOVA: It's always has two sides, right? So I know I have a lot of points to defend, but I'm really excited. It's a nice thing to do because I know that I did well last year and it's something which I always will remember those beautiful feelings which I had during the tournament. So I'm trying to take it more positive than negative, for sure, and I will see how it is going there. But I'm really glad that I made already some points here.
Q. During the year you always struggle a little bit more when it's more, when it's really hot. So I was wondering if this aspect changed during the year, or are you still feeling like 10 years ago?
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, definitely it's changed in a good way for sure. I made a good progress over 10 years, so when I find out that I do have asthma. So, yeah, it's getting better which I'm really glad for it and I think that I improved my fitness as well, so everything is connected and it's much better. And, yeah, obviously, playing under the roof it's good as well. Yeah, just need to work more on it and be on the good medications and so.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT