DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS WOMEN
February 21, 2013
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 P. KVITOVA/A. Radwanska
  6‑2, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   That was a very good match from you.   Did you expect this kind of performance, very quick match?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, not really.   I didn't expect that ‑‑ like of course that I wanted to win and play this game what I played.   It's, I mean, aggressive game and going for the balls harder.   
I think that was the key, to play an aggressive game today.  
   
 Q.   She said that the balls were flying.   It was very fast conditions.   Do you share the same feeling?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, I felt a little bit different.   I mean, it was a little bit windy, so maybe it's a little bit help to flying the balls.  
I mean, for me was quite okay because I'm playing fast.   I think it can help for me.  
   
 Q.   When you look at the game today, what would you say was effective?   You had a great forehand, 37 winners to like 6 for her.   What was different?   Was it the power of tennis?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, I think we are a   little bit different players, that she's trying to run and to catch every ball.   I'm the player who is not running a lot but going for the winners.   (Smiling.)  
That's I think was really different players on the court today, and my game just suits better.  
   
 Q.   You seem, compared to yesterday when it got toward the end of the set, you closed it out much better and no doubts, no tiebreakers, things like this.   
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, actually when I was 5‑4, I was on the bench and thinking about last match, just try not to have the nerves as yesterday.   So I'm glad that I did it quite well (smiling).   
   
 Q.   Do you feel like the four break points you had in second set that was important?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, really, I mean, that was really to come back for me.   I had 40‑Love down, and I had like three or four backhand winners down the line.   So it was really helpful for me.   
   
 Q.   When you look at these last two weeks your play is very well, and if you compare, in terms of challenging the top two, especially with Serena, you have been the one that challenged.   Do you sense that there are some big things in the future in terms of another Grand Slam, these kind of things for you the way you're playing?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, of course that I have still motivation.   That's for me to replay something what I felt after the Wimbledon was something special.   So for sure I have a motivation.  
But I'm not thinking about a Grand Slam right now.   I mean, in the beginning of the season wasn't good results, so I'm really glad that I can play matches, and that's important for me right now.  
   
 Q.   What turned it around for you after the slow start this season?   
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, like I said already in the past press conferences, that I changed a little bit my fitness preparation, so I think that it need sometimes to show on the tennis court.  
   
 Q.   Czech Republic's performance in Fed Cup and Davis Cup, was that the boost you needed, you know, that sort of vindication?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   You mean as Czech Republic?   
   
 Q.   Yeah, but also your role in it, that you got, you know, the Czech Republic on the map almost in terms of tennis?   Did that give you the vindication to perform like this?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, I mean, it's not like only for me, but for sure for all Czech Republic that we have a big bomb last November.   It's only one time in the history that we can win like Hopman Cup, Davis Cup, and Fed Cup.   
And for me, personally, I love to play Fed Cup.   It's always fun all week, and if it's happy end, that's always nice.   And we won two times already, so it's something really special for us.   It's give me always a little bit of confidence then.  
   
 Q.   In the semifinal you will play against Caroline Wozniacki, probably same type of player as Radwanska.   Same type of game plan for tomorrow?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, for sure it will be very similar to today that I have to play my aggressive game again.  
I hope that I can a little bit improve my serve and not have that many double faults.   But, anyway, I think it will be very similar and I think that I have to do the same.  
   
 Q.   Also, the unforced errors, though you won the first set, you really had a lot.   Is that something you will reduce significantly, or is that important when you're hitting so many winners?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, I think it's important for sure to have less unforced errors.   But anyway, I think it's part of my game.   I am player who is going for the winners, so I have to accept the unforced errors, too.   I remember few what wasn't really tough ones, and I shoot bullet to the court next time.  
I think of course that I can have less a little bit.  
   
 Q.   To beat a top‑5 player, obviously you have been there yourself, but what does it mean in terms of your progress?   Kind of a return to the top 5 or even higher?   To beat someone like Radwanska, what does it mean?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, I think to beat Agnieszka here it means something more because she's defending champion, so she's playing well here.  
So that's a good sign for me, for sure, but I'm not thinking like about of some top numbers.  
But, anyway, that's important that I won.   That's it.  
   
 Q.   The surface, last year it was among the fastest on the tour, but this year they have repainted it, seems to be a bit slower and a bit more gritty.   Could it be faster?   How fast is it?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, I didn't play last year, so I can't compare it, but what I heard from other players, they said the same what you said.  
For me, I think, you know, a little bit faster surface suits me well.   But anyway, I don't care.   I play semifinals, so I'm okay.  
I think that it's really similar to Doha when we played before or I feel like this.   So for me it's fine.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT