BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL
December 30, 2012
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 P. KVITOVA/C. Suarez Navarro
  6‑3, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Must feel good to get it out of the way?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, of course in the beginning of the year I never know what I can expect from me.   First rounds is really tough for me, so I'm really glad I won in the two sets.   
It was so nice to be back on the court.  
   
 Q.   Working on any special shots or return of serve at all in the pre‑season?   
PETRA KVITOVA:   I mean, in the off‑season we work on everything, I think.   I mean, serve, return, playing faster, but many times through the court that I can play some rallies.   
Of course I tried to improve my fitness, so I think it's everything.  
   
 Q.   It's been two years since you've been back to Brisbane.   I suppose you've noticed a few changes.   How does it feel to be back on that court?   
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, the last time when I was here it was pretty different and busier.   I really like this tournament.   It's very nice and the center court is beautiful and everything around, so I'm very glad to be back here.   Now I have a nice memories for 2011.  
   
 Q.   Last year you were very close to getting the No. 1 ranking.   Is that a priority for you this year, or are you more concentrated on getting Grand Slam titles?   
PETRA KVITOVA:   I think that for me, I was concentrate more on the Grand Slams than on the No. 1.   I know that I was pretty close to be No. 1 last year, but it was few points but still big step.  
I'm not sad that I wasn't No. 1.   Yeah, I mean, that's the tennis.   Still have to improve a lot of things in my game.  
   
 Q.   How long did the party go on after the Fed Cup win, Petra?   Couple days?   Weeks?   
PETRA KVITOVA:   I wasn't there.   I was too tired because I had antibiotics the week before.   I know that the girls with the captains and with the boys, they celebrate until, I don't know, 2:00, 3:00.   I don't know, but I went to sleep around 11:00.   
   
 Q.   Pavlyuchenkova next round.   What do you make of that match?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, we played many times already and it was always big fight, so I'm expecting the same.  
She's young girl.   She's playing very fast.   She has a big serve.   It will be a very tough match for me and for her, too.   I'm looking forward.  
   
 Q.   What do you think you need to work on in the next week or two before you get to Melbourne?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   What I have to work on?   
   
 Q.   Is there anything in today's game that you saw that you need to sharpen up a little bit?   
PETRA KVITOVA:   I think it was everything pretty solid today, but still I have some space what I can improve in ever, every part in this game.   
I mean, for example I missed some easy volleys on the net on important points.   So for example this one.   But we practiced a lot on the volleys in the off‑season, too.   Serve can be better, too.   I mean, everything.   (Smiling.)  
   
 Q.   Was the wind as bad for you today as what it is right now for Serena and those girls?   
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, yeah, it's little bit wind on the center court, but it's always from one side.   I think I was expecting from which side it's going.  
So it's strange because that's like under the roof but still it's windy there.   
So it's quite strange, but, I mean, it's same for both of us.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT