TEB BNP PARIBAS WTA CHAMPIONSHIPS
October 23, 2012
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. RADWANSKA/P. Kvitova
  6‑3, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Back at Wimbledon, you said that you felt nervous coming out there as a defending champion.   Today did you feel kind of the same feeling of just nerves?   
PETRA KVITOVA:   It was a little bit different, but the nerves was there for sure.   I was nervous all the match.   I felt my fingers weren't still moving and I didn't move on my legs.  
Yeah, I'm disappointing in myself.   I had a lot of errors and it wasn't good tennis from my side.   
Yeah, but still, I mean, it's the Championships and I have a second chance.   
   
 Q.   I know you're defending champion, but you've played here before, you played her before, so why so nervous?   
PETRA KVITOVA:   I don't know.   Maybe that it's the Championships.   I mean, every Grand Slam what I'm playing I'm always nervous before every match, so I think it's very similar.   
Here it's top eight players in the world.   I mean, I think that it's not that big pressure because you don't have someone who is around 100 in the first round for example.  
But, still, if you are not playing like some matches before and now you have player who's No.4 in the world, it's not easy to be relaxed.  
   
 Q.   So when you asked your coach to come on court towards the end of the second set, what did you ask him to help you with and what did he say?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   He said I'm not really in the game and that I'm standing like two meters off the baseline and that's not my game.   So I have to stand much more close to the baseline and just go for the balls.   I had some chances to go for the volleys and I didn't.  
I mean, that was what we practiced for 14 days.   Unfortunately, I had a lot of chances to go to the net but I didn't.   
   
 Q.   As defending champion, you have great memories from last year.   What's your first impression about the tournament, about the atmosphere?   
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, I mean, I love it here to play.   The crowd when I was coming on the court was unbelievable.   When I heard the people, it was so nice to have memories back.   
You know, I know that I have really good Turkish fans and a lot, and it's very nice to know.   I always love to be back.  
   
 Q.   You've had a lot tough losses and things like that.   I've never seen you this kind of torn up about a loss before.   What makes this one more emotional for you?   
PETRA KVITOVA:   That's a good question.   Now, I mean, how I said already, I was really not very comfortable on the court and I didn't feel pretty well.  
So, yeah.  
   
 Q.   As Courtney said, you've been through losses and wins when you've been nervous.   What did you tell yourself today to try and calm down?   Why do you think it didn't work?   
PETRA KVITOVA:   I was telling myself that I have to try to go and fighting again, and it was only like‑‑ took like two balls and I was down again.   
I mean, I couldn't move very well, and that's why maybe I was very slow.   I was still missing one step to the shot.   I played really not very good tactic, because even I had like really good chances to go for the net I didn't, what I said already.   
I mean, it was very important to have this game against Agnieszka.   
   
 Q.   When you got off court and you went into the locker room did you feel more angry or sad?   
PETRA KVITOVA:   Both.   (Smiling.)  
   
 Q.   Did you break any racquets?  
PETRA KVITOVA:     No, that's not my style.   (Laughter.)  
   
 Q.   You talked yesterday about how you like playing on faster courts.   Today Aga said this is one of the slower hard courts she's played on.   Do you agree it's playing slow, slower than last year?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah.   My opinion is it's a little bit slower than last year for sure.   Every day what it's playing on this court, on this surface, it's maybe a little bit every day a little bit faster.   
But it was first day, first match, and that's why I think it was a little bit slower.   Aga is not playing very fast, so maybe I had a lot of time to be prepare for the shot.   But how I said, I didn't move very well so I didn't have a good footwork.   That's why probably I was still playing somewhere else but not the center court.   
   
 Q.   You don't have a game tomorrow.   How will this plan your day?   
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, for sure I will have some practice on site.   I will rest in bed, and, I don't know, maybe some dinner out somewhere.   Who knows?   
   
 Q.   Are you confident that you can get your game back and win another maybe two matches and get to the semifinals?   Do you feel you have that in you?   
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, I hope so.   Chances still are here, so, I mean, I try my best again.   I know that this match wasn't my best, and think the only one way is I can play better.   I hope that it will be.  
   
 Q.   You've never been in a tournament, I don't think, where you've lost a match and get to keep going.   Last year you went undefeated here.   How is this going to be different for you convincing yourself to get ready to play again after a loss?   
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, I think I have a mental coach, and we were speaking about this, about new experiences maybe.   I think actually I'm glad that it's here.   It's new experience for me, and from every experience I can be smarter.   Never know.  
Of course next match will be tough again.   I'm looking forward to be on the court again and try to win.   
   
 Q.   Were you surprised by any element of Agnieszka Radwanska's game?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   You know, she's very smart and she knows what I will play.   She knows which side I will choose.   That's why I think she's reading the game very well.   
I mean, she's really dangerous player because you never know if she's playing slice or dropshot or she can just play on the line or the cross.   
I think that's a really good game for her.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT