NEW HAVEN OPEN AT YALE
August 23, 2012
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







P. KVITOVA/L. Safarova
  6‑3, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Before we get started I would like to introduce the 2012 Emirates Airlines US Open Series champion.   She clinched it tonight by winning this semifinal.   She was tied with Li Na.   Petra is now your US Open Series champion. 
PETRA KVITOVA:   Thank you. 
THE MODERATOR:   And we will now take questions. 

Q.   Yesterday you were saying you weren't that concerned about the US Open Series.   Now that you've clinched the title, can you explain what it means to you, if anything?
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, it mean a lot.   How I said on the court, I said I don't care, I just played the match, what I had to do.   I had to win, and I won it. 
Of course, I'm very proud of this.   If someone told me after Wimbledon I would be champ of Emirates US Open Series, I don't know what I will tell to them. 
But, yeah, it's very nice feeling that I can play here.   You know, it's really a lot pressure to play here compared to like before.   I had a tough part of the season during the Wimbledon, the grass courts.   I just enjoy every match, relaxed, just have fun for my tennis. 

Q.   You spoke yesterday about how hard it would be to play your friend today.   How was it out there tonight?
PETRA KVITOVA:   I have to say it wasn't that bad.   From the beginning, of course, it's weird with Lucie on the same court.   Then when you are in the game, you don't care about this.   You just try to play your best. 
Yeah, I mean, I think we both played so well.   Yeah, she played well, too. 

Q.   A lot of bonus money at stake for you next week depending on how you finish in the US Open.   Any more pressure?   How do you think you're playing?   Well on hard courts this year. 
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, I don't care about the money.   So I'm really proud that I'm champ.   But, I mean, the money is not the important thing in the world and in the life.   So I'm so glad that I played a lot of matches, good matches.   I have a great results.   I'm here in the semifinal.   That's important for me to have some confidence for the US Open.   We will see what it will be in the US Open about the money. 

Q.   How important was that break in the first set?   You were down 2‑1, 40‑Love. 
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, that's true.   I remember very well this game.   I think Lucie gave me like two double‑faults in this game, so I think it's helped me a little bit. 
Yeah, in the women's tennis, it's no break.   Like you can still break her again, rebreak, win the set.   So that was in my head, that I can break her again. 

Q.   How long have you known each other?
PETRA KVITOVA:   Actually, I think I moved to Prestice when I was 16, 17, so I think like five years.   I'm in the Fed Cup team from 2007.   So from this time, yeah. 

Q.   You had 10 aces, no double‑faults.   Do you remember serving that well before? 
PETRA KVITOVA:   Wow, that's amazing.   I was close once (laughter). 
Yeah, that's great.   I mean, yesterday I didn't serve that well as today, so I'm really glad for this.   It's helped me a lot this time.

Q.   Do you remember ever serving that well before?
PETRA KVITOVA:   I think in Olympics or in the Wimbledon on the grass, yeah. 

Q.   You were routinely serving 100 to 110 miles an hour.   Was that one of your best serving matches as far as the velocity of your serve?
PETRA KVITOVA:   You mean the speed? 

Q.   Yes. 
PETRA KVITOVA:   I think that I don't have the speediest serve on the tour.   I'm more focusing on the placement than on the speed.   Yeah, maybe it's not that much. 
I had it tonight, so I'm fine (smiling). 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT