SHISEIDO WTA FINALS SHENZHEN
October 31, 2019
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. BARTY/P. Kvitova
6-4, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You had your chances in the first set, but she played particularly well on the big points.
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, she did. She served pretty well on those big points, as well. I was like 50/50. When it came to the deciding points, she always played better than me.
Q. It got away from you quite quickly in the second set. Was it that you couldn't get any rhythm against her?
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, I felt so. I think the serve didn't help me at all today. I was in those two previous matches serving okay at some points of the match, but not really today. It didn't help me at all. It was pretty difficult from the baseline to play with her rallies.
Yeah, I just couldn't find probably the rhythm. I was a bit tired, as well, mentally, physically. It's end of the season, so it's not really questioning.
Yeah, she was just better, for sure.
Q. Just looking at the year as a whole, would you say it's been a very good year for you?
PETRA KVITOVA: I'm glad it's over right now, for sure (smiling). It was mentally and physically pretty tiring, as every other season.
Yeah, I mean, definitely was the highlight playing the final of a Grand Slam again. Being qualified here was great, too. I shouldn't be that disappointed.
But, you know, right now it's not really easy to take it. Overall definitely I'm happy for everything.
Q. What are you looking forward to doing most in the off-season?
PETRA KVITOVA: Not a thing about the tennis at all, for sure. That's what I going to start from tomorrow.
No, I need to visit my family, for sure, just take some time off.
Q. How much time would you like to take off and how much time will you actually take off?
PETRA KVITOVA: I think it will be around two or three weeks, which I would like to, and which I think it will be like. Yeah, I mean, we are not playing Fed Cup final, which is one week extra. I need to work again for the next season.
I'm sitting here talking about the next season already, which is weird. Yeah, I really need to just take time off from tennis and not think too much about it.
Q. You mentioned you were tired. How much of a factor was fatigue, two long matches on a slow surface?
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, I had those two long matches, which wasn't really easy. When I lost, it's mentally tough, as well. When I'm not really 100%, it's really tough to play No. 1.
Yeah, I had my chances definitely. I don't think it was that bad, but those small things I really missed today, she was there and she hit it much better.
Yeah, of course I'm disappointing that I didn't win a match here. I played great one against Naomi. But, yeah, that's it. Just need to finish it, be done with it, look forward.
Q. Do you think the WTA Finals should consider using a faster court? Every player is very tired at the end of the season. Slow court maybe is very tiring and puts them in danger of injury.
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I would love to have little bit faster surface, for sure (smiling).
Q. Any plan for the off-season, winter training or practice sessions?
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, not really yet. I just finished, so I need to really think about it, what I going to do in the off-season, what I going to do with the preparation.
Not yet.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT