U.S. OPEN
August 29, 2012
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 P. KVITOVA/A. Cornet
  6‑3, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   You have been winning more and more in the U.S. now obviously.   Is it something that's no longer a big deal to you and comfortable for you?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   It is nice to still winning in America.   I hope be continue as long as be.   But, yeah, I mean, I feel good.   I have a lot of matches and a little bit confident for the matches, for sure.   
It is the best practice I can have for the Grand Slam, so that's nice.  
   
 Q.   How do you feel coming in, especially coming off the win at New Haven?   Do you feel you have tremendous momentum in this tournament?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I think that it's good because I'm still feeling that the tournament is continue and it's not Grand Slam, so I think that it's good that I don't have a time to be nervous too much.   (Smiling.)   
   
 Q.   So that's what's going through your head right now, is that you're trying to ignore that it's a Grand Slam?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, because when I play final Saturday, it's still like I had a day off as normal tournament and I start on Monday.   So I was glad that I played on Monday, actually.   
Yeah, it's nice.  
   
 Q.   How do you feel you played today?   Are you happy with the way you performed?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, of course that I can play better.   It's every match.   But I played and I won.   That's it.   I think that I had a good during the end of the first set and beginning of second set, so I knew what had to play, tactics and what help me and what it's not very good to play.   
Yeah.   
   
 Q.   You came to net a few times against Cornet.   Is that something you want to do against a player who is hitting harder, a Sharapova or Serena, or do you just want to stay back?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   It's tough to go for the volley if I'm playing on somebody who is playing really fast, because you don't have a lot of time to come there and to have like really good shot for this.   
I think Alize was moving a little bit so far from the baseline, so I had like ‑‑I had good shots and then I could go for the volley.   It's not that like big risk.  
   
 Q.   As you've gotten more comfortable on the courts in North America, do you feel more comfortable in North America in general, your whole rest of your time here?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I think I rest very well in the Montreal.   Then, I don't know.   When I'm still in the draw I'm still thinking about the tennis.   So I don't have a time to thinking about something else.  
Yeah.   I don't know.   
   
 Q.   You have had great results in the other three Grand Slams.   Does that give you confidence here at the US Open?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I think for me it's always the worst Grand Slam here.   I will try to improve my result from, I don't know, 2009 or what was it.   I know I played well in the Grand Slams, and I hope I can play well.   
Who knows?   
   
 Q.   What is the reason you think this has not been the easiest for you?  
 PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, I think so.   I mean, for me, it's tough to breathe here and to moving and be really ready.   It's really not very help me.  
 Q.   This is Kim Clijsters' final tournament.   Can you share some memories of how it's like playing against her?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, when I start on the tour she didn't play.   And then when I was like around 60 spot on the world she came and she had a great result.   I had great respect to her.   Still I have great respect.   She's a great model.   She is a very nice girl.  
Yeah, I like her very much.   She's always say, hi, how are you, and well done, things like this.   
Actually in Miami when I played her I lost like 6‑2, 6‑1, very easy, and she said that it's good way how I'm playing.   She believed that I can improve a lot.   That was very nice from her.  
   
 Q.   Are your expectations higher here than they ever have been before in New York, do you think?  
 PETRA KVITOVA:   Sorry?   
 Q.   Are your expectations in New York higher than any time before?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I hope so.   I have to think positively.   Yeah, I hopes it going to be better.  
   
 Q.   Is Adam playing juniors here?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   No.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel like you come in and you expect yourself to play well, or what's kind of driving you?   Off the court you're so sweet and soft spoken.   On the court you're so focused.   
PETRA KVITOVA:   Thank you.  
   
 Q.   What for you is the end goal?   What is the best result that you can come out of every tournament?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   You know, I remember when I was younger and I play still in the Czech Republic, everybody was speaking that I am so nice for playing tennis.   
Yeah, I mean, when I'm on the court I always want to win, so I think that's enough for to play good tennis.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT