ROGERS CUP WOMEN
August 13, 2012
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







P. KVITOVA/N. Li
  7‑5, 2‑6, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How good does that feel?
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, it's great.   Yeah, I finally won title this year.   I'm so glad that it can be here in Montreal.
Yeah, I think that it was really good final, big fight from both sides.   I think that she played really well.

Q.   You get to convince yourself now too that North America doesn't have to be a bad place for your asthma?
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, for sure Montreal not.   I hope that it will continue.
But, yeah, North America for me always tough.   I'm so glad how I played here this week.

Q.   What do you think the key was to your good games and your championship?
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, I think that in the first set was really big fight, very close, every game what we played.
Yeah, maybe I was a little bit lucky that I won the first set.   But the second set, she just played very well.   She was very aggressive.   She didn't have any mistakes.
Between second and third set when I was in the locker room and I change my clothes, I knew that I have to be like the first who attack the balls and play much more faster than in the second set and have more percentage first serve.

Q.   What were you thinking after you lost 16 points in a row, something like that, to start the second set?   How do you come back in the game?
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, actually, I didn't know about it.   I didn't really count the points so I think it was really good, actually.   But it wasn't easy to lose 4‑0. 
I knew that she played well, and I had to just wait for some, not that great balls, how she played before.

Q.   Do you have a nice spot for that trophy at home?   What kind of confidence does this give you heading into the US Open?
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, I think that my parents find good place for this beautiful trophy.   She's quite heavy.   (Smiling.)
Yeah.   About the confidence, yeah, we see.   I think that every tournament here it's great preparation, and for me this one is the best what I can play.   Yeah, we see the US Open, it's really near.   Every match, every opponent, it's very tough. 
We see.

Q.   Na Li is a really good fighter.   What made you believe after the second set that it was possible for you to bounce back?
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, yeah, I knew that she's big fighter.   Actually, I knew how she returned the match with Lucie.   I knew that it would be tough to win the third set.
Yeah, I knew that I have to keep my serve, have more first serve in and play just aggressive game and wait for some break, what was, and then I was a little bit nervous in the last game and I was serving.   So I'm glad that I did it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT