WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 15, 2012
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 P. KVITOVA/M. Barthel
  3‑6, 6‑2, 7‑5 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Tough one out there.   The conditions looked really bad heat and humidity‑wise.   How were you able to handle it?   How is the recovery going?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, I didn't feel very well.   When I wake up in the morning I was still wanted to sleep a little bit that I could.   
Yeah, I think she played so well in the first set.   She was really aggressive from the beginning, and then she did some mistakes.   So that's help me for a little bit of confident and to play more rallies and win more points.  
Then after the condition, yeah, I mean, the humid and the hot was bad for me.   But, yeah, fortunately inhaler helped me during the match.  
   
 Q.   Did you do anything special to combat the heat today?   Just drink a lot more water or any fluids or anything?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, I had everything I think, gels and bars and a lot of energy.   I tried to be still in game.   So I need to have a more energy.  
   
 Q.   How much of today was a result of maybe being tired from Montreal, and how much of it was being tired from the conditions and having a hard time breathing?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, that's tough question, actually.   Because I think that both sides was not really help me today.   Yeah, actually I slept like full one night today.   Yeah, the humid and everything was not very good for me.  
But, yeah, I think that it's‑‑ I mean, now it doesn't matter.   (Smiling.)  
   
 Q.   Win is a win.   
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   Do you think it's a good sign that you can win a match like that in the heat and humidity going to NewYork in two weeks if it's going to be a little warm there?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, for sure it's good to know this.   I'm really glad that I'm fighter again and I won again from not very much nice score on the scoreboard.   
Yeah, I'm really glad that I'm through.  
   
 Q.   Was that maybe your best win, you know, in North American hard courts under these sort of humid conditions, do you think?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Maybe, yes, because in the Montreal I wasn't too bad as here.   So I knew that Cincinnati would be much worse for me.   
But, yeah, I think that like the fighter in the humid and little bit condition for me today it was really nice to win.  
   
 Q.   What do you feel that you did well in the second two sets to be able to win?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Actually, I return more serve than before, and I think that the first set she's serving better than the second and third set maybe.   That's why.   
Yeah, and I knew that I have to have more first serve in, because from the second serve she return really well.   She was really, really after every ball from the return.  
Yeah, and then just try to play more at ease, because like four or five shots she did some mistakes.   
So, yeah.   
   
 Q.   Not too long ago you were very close to being No. 1 in the world, and I was wondering, with respect to that, what's your goal forgetting there eventually?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I don't have any goal like be No. 1 right now.   Yeah, I knew that in the beginning of the year was really huge for you guys, but not for me.   
Yeah, I was injured in the season, but still I'm trying to do my best and still be in game, improve my game.   For me it's important to stay healthy that I can play.  
   
 Q.   You mentioned about improving your game.   What specifically are you looking to improve upon?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   That's good question.   Actually maybe you can ask David.   I don't know, really.   We are working on every part of the game.  
Maybe the serve is like the main thing what we want to improve.  
   
 Q.   Are you concerned by like power of the serve or placement or consistency?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, more placement.   Sometimes it's nice to have nice aces for sure, but sometimes it's not that easy.  
So the placement, it's much better, because if you have a big serve but to the racquet it's not that nice, so, yeah.   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   A bit of a funny question, but sometimes you wear the visor.   Sometimes you wear the headband.   In the last two games you have been taking the headband or visor off in the middle and playing better.   
PETRA KVITOVA:   You're asking why?   
   
 Q.   Yeah, I'm asking why.   
PETRA KVITOVA:   Because actually final against Li Na and today, I start with the headband against Li Na, but then it was so wet here.   When I played, it was everywhere and in my eyes, so that's why I take it off.   
Today I start with the visor because it was the sun, but then it was also again very wet.  
So that's why I just take it off, yeah.  
   
 Q.   One of the best players of all time is your countrywoman, Martin Navratilova.   Do you have interaction with her and consult with her?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   If I see her on the tournaments we can chat a little bit, but it's not really huge.   Yeah, that's it.   We don't talk too much.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT