AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 20, 2020
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
P. KVITOVA/K. Siniakova   
6-1, 6-0   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Pretty strong first-round performance from you. Seemed like everything was clicking out there. How would you evaluate the match?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, of course that I felt nervous before the match, in the start of the match. But in those three games I think I got a little bit more calmer, more free. Of course with the break it's a little bit better always.   
I think, you know, the first game when I was serving helped me a lot. So the serve was kind of key for sure. I felt more free on the returns and playing from the baseline.   
Yeah, definitely I played my game, which obviously worked.   
 Q.  The air quality before you went under the roof was supposed to be good today, but when you were playing indoors, was that something you would have taken, to play indoors?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, obviously I like to play indoors. I was going to the court raining. It's like, Oh, not bad. Because I felt the wind was really coming back before my match.   
Yeah, for sure it's better to play indoors than with really bad, windy conditions. So we were lucky to play on the big court, for sure.   
Yeah, the air quality was okay. I didn't feel anything.   
 Q.  Just in terms of playing under the roof, obviously in different roofed situations, air can feel different. Sometimes it's more humid; sometimes it's less. So what was it like on Margaret Court Arena with the roof closed? Did it feel stuffy or normal?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I think a little bit the sound of the balls or hitting the balls were a little bit different. Obviously it's indoor.   
But I think I get a little bit more sweaty. That's it. I don't think any differences I didn't find.   
 Q.  Did you notice on the other side of the court that Katerina was struggling a bit? For you, when you're seeing that, how do you react to that?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Actually, I saw Katka was the last game of our match crying, so it wasn't really nice for me, of course. We know each other very well. We are practicing the same club in Prague and it's nothing really easy to play who you well know.   
Yeah, it's been strange, for sure. I didn't feel very happy about her, for sure.   
But, yeah, it's a tennis match and just had to kept rolling.   
 Q.  Is that the best you have played in a Grand Slam first round?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I think once I played somewhere pretty good, as well. But definitely is one of the best, let's say (smiling).   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT