ROGERS CUP WOMEN
August 12, 2012
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 P. KVITOVA/C. Wozniacki
  3‑6, 6‑2, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Seems to be a day for comebacks.   Can you just talk a little bit about your match.   
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, I think that at the beginning I was a little bit slower, and I think that she played very well.   She tried to play fast.   Yeah, I was the one that did a lot of mistakes.  
I was still on the baseline and just running, and this is not my game.   I knew that I have to be more patient and more playing rallies with her and going for the net and wait for a final shot.  
   
 Q.   The fact that you had an easy day yesterday, did that factor into it at all, not hitting balls?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, no, I think that every day is different.   The opponent, it's tougher and tougher in the draw, so I think that I did great job in this match.  
   
 Q.   Did you have any talk or advice in the rain delay with a coach or someone?   Because you came back seemingly with quite a lot of force and just cracking that forehand.   
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, actually, I think that I played well in the second set.   I tried to continue. Yeah, when it was a delay, I just was pretty much in the lounge and just chatting, nothing special.  
Yeah, I knew what I have to do, and I knew that I have to have more first serve, because from the second serve it was much more tougher for me.  
   
 Q.   I have noticed from your record that you have won seven times but not in North America.   What would it mean for you to win this tournament here?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, I think that it's really good for me to get known that I can play here.  
Yeah, I think during this week it wasn't too bad, the humidity, because I have asthma.   So I have trouble with the breathe, so maybe I'm lucky, but I think it's great to know that I can play here.  
   
 Q.   Facing Li tomorrow, what's your feeling about that?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I like her as a person.   She's really funny.   I think that, you know, we played each other I think three times already and I'm losing.   So I have to win tomorrow to have a 2‑2 and have a revenge, because in the last time I lost.  
So I know that she's playing great tennis here, and she's trying playing aggressively, also, so I will try my best.  
   
 Q.   What is your best surface to play on?   
PETRA KVITOVA:   For me?   
   
 Q.   Yeah.   
PETRA KVITOVA:   Grass.   
   
 Q.   Really?   
PETRA KVITOVA:   It's surprise.   
   
 Q.   Li was saying that she has trouble with left‑handers.   Is that going to be any sort of an advantage for you?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   It depends.   I think that for the players, they are not playing very often against the left‑handers.   Yeah, I think the serve, it's advantage because from the left side it really good to serve wide.   That's the different rotation to them backhand.  
   
 Q.   At 5‑1 in the third set, you lost the next two points.   At that moment were you thinking, I don't want to do like Lucie in her match?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, actually, I was thinking like this.   But then I told myself that, no, I don't want to be as Lucie.   Just go for it.   
But, yeah, I think that the game was a little tough for me when I won the first rallies.   Then she played well.   I think that it's helped me a lot that we had new balls then.  
   
 Q.   First final in 2012.   Are you excited about it?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, of course.   I mean, I had fourth semifinal this year.   Yeah, I know that it's not the Grand Slams, but anyway, yeah, the final, it's much better.  
   
 Q.   You mentioned you had asthma.   Does that bother you particularly in North America as opposed to in Europe?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Actually, yeah, it's only in America, unfortunately, because here it's more humid than Europe or Australia where it's very hot but not that humid.   I think the humid, it's the main problem for me.  
But, yeah, I have inhalator, so I'm trying to protect it.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk a little bit about the final, what you expect from your opponent?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, how I said, I think that she's playing really fast game from the both sides.   She can move very well.   I think her serve, it's a little bit the important thing for me to return pretty well and keep my serve still in the big percentage first serve, because from the second serve, I think that she will attack me.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT