ROGERS CUP WOMEN
August 8, 2012
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 P. KVITOVA/K. Pervak
  4‑6, 7‑6, 6‑0 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Am I correct in assuming that you seemed a little bit tired out there?   Was that a result of the big Olympic run you had until the quarterfinals?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I think it is not the problem that I looked tired.   I think, you know, I came on Sunday and I played today, so it's third day and it's always tough to be ready.  
Yeah, I think that after Olympics I get good days off, and I was getting to have more energy for this tournament or for this pre‑US Open Series.  
   
 Q.   The match seemed to turn on the rain delay there.   You dropped the first set, then 4‑4.   Was the rain delay a factor, do you think, or was it that the opponent seemed to have an injury?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, I'm not sure.   I think when I was waiting in the locker room, we had a fun with the girls and we just spoke with something else.   You know, it wasn't really nice score when I came to the court again, 4‑4, serve at 15‑All.   It's a little bit shaky hand.   
So I was a little bit nervous, but I was more relaxed than before, so I think that it's good help, yeah.   
   
 Q.   Is it good to get a match like that out of the way going into the rest of the tournament if you've overcome some adversity, maybe?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, you know, it's hard to play on the hard court after the grass for me, I mean, always.   
It's about getting to know yourself on the court and find all the things, the shots.   It's everything different compared to grass.   And I'm here alone, so it's good experience for me to be prepared.  
   
 Q.   The game seemed to take a while to pick up speed.   There wasn't a whole lot of rhythm.   Is it hard to get involved in that kind of a game?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, I know I didn't play my best tennis.   So it was hard getting back to the match.   Sometimes you have to win ugly, what I did today.   Yeah, I think today from the tiebreak I played much better than before, and I was more relaxed and played just my game and solid game so I didn't have too much mistakes.   
She looks a little bit injured, so I don't know.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT