SONY ERICSSON OPEN
March 23, 2012
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







V. WILLIAMS/P. Kvitova
  6‑4, 4‑6, 6‑0

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   So talk about the match.   Incredibly tough and back and forth.   What was it like for you?
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, of course, that first round, Venus, wasn't really easy.   I mean, she played very well after a long time.   I mean, yeah, it was‑‑ at the beginning was every game was very close, and it was only about one break what I didn't... 
So, I mean, but in the second set I started very well.
I mean, I go to second serve from her, I played more aggressive from the second serve, and I was more aggressive than she.   And, yeah, I mean, this was a key for all match. 
But, yeah, unfortunately then when I won the second set, the third set was really cruel for me.   I mean, at the beginning the first two games I had a game balls and break balls, of course.
But, yeah, it was tough todidn't make it and then be still focus and have a plan for the match.   I knew what I have to do, but, yeah, if I didn't return very well it's tough to play against her.

Q.   She had said before the match she wasn't sure how well she was going to be able to play against you because she's been off tour recovering from her illness.   What did she seem like to you?   She looked pretty darn good out there. 
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, I think so.   She looks very ready, very fit.   I mean, she can play, sure, of course. 
I mean, yeah, I mean, you know, for the first round, she is a good motivation.   I mean, the crowd was with her and everything was okay for her.

Q.   What do you need to do right now for your game, do you think?   What do you think you need to work on after this?
PETRA KVITOVA:   I think that's for everything.   I mean, the first position what I have to improve is my fitness because I was injured one month; I was sick.   So this is right now the biggest problem.
So I have to have some fitness preparation.   I'm going to Turkey for, I don't know, two weeks.   Hopefully after that everything will be fine.

Q.   Do you think it was your fitness that hurt you in the third set?
PETRA KVITOVA:   It's can be, but, I mean, the important‑‑ the key for the third set was my return.   I had break points, and, yeah, I mean, this wasn't very good from my side.

Q.   What did you first think when you saw Venus' name next to you in the draw?
PETRA KVITOVA:   Actually I didn't see the draw, so...   (Smiling.)
Yeah, of course, I knew that she is playing Date‑Krumm and who win is playing against me.   I mean, it was fine.   Of course I had a smile, butanyway, I mean, she's back.   It was draw, so, I mean, it wasn't lucky or unlucky.   It's normal opponent. 
Yeah, I tried but nothing (smiling).

Q.   But you do have some good memories from playing her early in your career in Memphis, though? 
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, I had a good memories, but I don't know if I still have right now.   (Laughter.)
Yeah, it's a long time what we played, and me and her change a little bit in game.   Today was different position.   I was favorite.   So it was different, but I think it was good match, but with a bad end.

Q.   How was your breathing tonight?
PETRA KVITOVA:   I can say that it was okay.   I mean, in the night it was very good and I don't think dizzy or something.   I mean, after some long rallies I breathe a little bit not like normally, but it wasn't too bad.

Q.   You said you're going to Turkey?
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yes.

Q.   What are you doing in Turkey?
PETRA KVITOVA:   Fitness preparation.

Q.   All offcourt mostly, or... 
PETRA KVITOVA:   Of course that, and the second part what we will so I will play tennis, too. 

Q.   Also you made your debut on Twitter today?
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yes.   (Laughter.)

Q.   What do you think about that?
PETRA KVITOVA:   I wasn't goodeither to have before my match.   I try.   I will see.   (Smiling.)

Q.   I have a question about Roland Garros.   I'd like to know what is your best memory related to Roland Garros?   Not especially about your match, but in general your best memories. 
PETRA KVITOVA:   My best memory, actually Roland Garros was my first Grand Slam when I played main draw, and I played very well.   I was in the round of 16, I think.   This, from the first Grand Slam it was unbelievable result.
So this is probably my good memories. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT