WIMBLEDON
July 2, 2012
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 P. KVITOVA/F. Schiavone
  4‑6, 7‑5, 6‑1 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   What were the discussions about?   You had two long breaks.   Did you want to carry on?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, I was okay, but otherwise the grass was a little bit humid so it was dangerous little bit.   But I was ready to play and to continue because I knew that I have a chance.   
So that's why.   
   
 Q.   Were you surprised when she started moaning?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   No, not really.   For her was tougher than for me because, you know, she need to moving more than me.   On the otherwise, if I am playing really fast it's sliding on the grass, so it's more quicker than normally.   
But on the other, if she has a good slice it's sliding on my side, too, so it was...   
Yeah.  
   
 Q.   When the umpire asked if you wanted to carry on, you said yes?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yes.   I said already I wanted to play.   
   
 Q.   You seemed to be a bit grumpy with the weather or yourself and after stormed to victory.   
PETRA KVITOVA:   After the second set I felt more better than before, and I knew that I am in the good shape and I have good chances to have the second set.   
Yeah, it was a little bit about the break.   But, anyway, it's help to me.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel your opponent lost concentration because of the break and the worry about the weather?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, it's could be.   I think that she didn't want to play really on the little bit wet grass.   Yeah, maybe she lost little bit on the concentration.   But I'm not sure it was really the big key of the match.   
   
 Q.   Talk about the first two sets, what a big fight and struggle it was.   She seemed to be playing at a high level and you were looking for your game a lot.   
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, I think, you know, from the beginning of the match I didn't had a lot of break ball and I didn't have a very nice feelings.   I mean, really it was not funny for me in that moment.   I feel so bad.   That's why probably I played so bad.   
And then in the second set, in the beginning of the second set was still similar than before, but when I make the break finally after one hour or however long we played, it was better for me.   I knew I can play against her and I can break her.  
   
 Q.   I guess the positive when you're struggling is if you win a match like that when you're not playing well, it shows that you're still fighting and able to focus, huh?   
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, I think so.   I hope so.   Every match is different.   The last matches I played so well and so quick, and today it's about the fight.   I'm so happy that I showed that.   It's important.   
Tomorrow is different day, so I hope they will be better tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   As we get later in the tournament the pressure increases.   What is your personal approach to pressure?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, I mean, now for me it's much better than on the beginning of the tournament, so I'm glad that I'm continuing in the tournament.   
I'm not thinking about the pressure.   I mean, every match what I played I was favorite.   But, yeah, I do not thinking about the pressure too much.  
   
 Q.   What are your thoughts on facing Serena Williams?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I think it will be huge match for both of us, and I'm looking forward to play against her.   Looking forward to have a challenge.   I mean, she played well.   She has a great champion.   She won many times here.   
We will see.   I will try my best and we will see.  
   
 Q.   Any other specifics tactically what it is to face her?   You did play her two years ago.   
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, I did, in a semifinal here.   For me it was a big experiences.   I will try to have a match on my side tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   When you're sitting there on the chair under the umbrella for five minutes, does that create a problem with muscles getting tense and cold?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, maybe a little bit because it was cold on the court.   It wasn't easy to have still a warm body and warm muscles.   Then if you are standing you have to move a little bit more and try to have a little bit warm muscles.  
   
 Q.   It was important for the umpire to make a quick decision?   So either play or go off.   Do you need a quick decision?   
PETRA KVITOVA:   It depends.   I don't care about the quick decision.   But, anyway, I mean, if she said that we can wait on the chair just little bit, just few minutes, we are okay.   
So it's better to stay there than go to locker room and come back.  
   
 Q.   The first time you played Serena in Australia, do you remember that match?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   I won't talk about the score.   At that point you were maybe too immature and she was such a big player that you couldn't really find your game.   Di you think of her as someone way up there and you weren't ready to play her?   
PETRA KVITOVA:   The first match?   
   
 Q.   Yes.   
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, I remember very well.   I was little bit injured before the Australian Open.   When I face her in the second round, yeah, I knew that she's tough opponent.   
But I think I won like two or three games.   She played so well.   I didn't play badly.   But, anyway, I didn't have a chance.   
   
 Q.   So now I'm assuming you're at the level, defending champion, you have a different feeling when you're facing someone like her?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, I hope so.   I think that from the time I improve my game.   She's playing still very well, but, I mean, not as well as in the Australian Open.   I think that she won the Grand Slam after.   
So, yeah, I think it will be a really different match to compare the years ago.   
   
 Q.   Do you think being the defending champion helps you to embrace the pressure that's coming on now in the second week?   
PETRA KVITOVA:   I'm not sure.   I'm not thinking about the pressure.   Yeah, I'm defending champion, but it was last year what I won here.   I will try to play my best in the second week, too.   
It's the match tomorrow, so I will focus on this match.  
   
 Q.   What's the best thing about pressure and what's the worst thing about it?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I think that without pressure it's boring.   I mean, if you are playing very well you need the pressure, because otherwise you are not playing well and you didn't have some good results.   
So, I mean, that's about the pressure.   
   
 Q.   A lot of people were very surprised when Rosol beat Nadal like he did.   Today Kerber beat Kim very easily and Lisicki beat Sharapova.   Did those two women's results surprise you?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Actually, I was focusing on my match.   I think Maria didn't play so well in this tournament from the beginning.   I read that she knew it, that she needs to improve her game.   
I think Lisicki has a big serve.   It's tough to return and break her.   
Yeah, I'm not really surprised about the score, but I thought it could be like three sets.   
About Kerber, that was really surprise for me to have this score for her.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT