WIMBLEDON
June 28, 2012
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 P. KVITOVA/E. Baltacha
  6‑0, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Your response to that victory?   You played well in the first set.   
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, I think that I play well from the beginning and I knew what I have to play.   I have good tactics plans.   Yeah, it seems very easy from the beginning, but some games was really close.   I try to win the big points.   
Then the second set I started to feel a little bit my back, so that's why probably I didn't play so well as the beginning.   
Yeah, she played more faster, more risk, and that's why was the second set.   
   
 Q.   You mentioned your back.   Is that a problem at the moment?   
PETRA KVITOVA:   Right now, yes.   But I think it will be all right tomorrow.   I have just stiff back, so I hope it will be all right.   
   
 Q.   Has it been a problem?   You had injuries this year.   
PETRA KVITOVA:   Felt it like last 10 days, but it was only like for half an hour, then I was in the physio, had the needles and treatment, and it was gone.   
I hope it will be the same today.   
   
 Q.   The first couple matches, building from last year's success, are you feeling that confidence coming through you and you can repeat that success?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, I think if I compare these to matches, it was very big difference to play first match on the Centre Court.   Yeah, I felt more comfortable on the court.   
Actually, the shadows was terrible from the one side.   But, yeah, I so happy how I played, and I'm looking forward for the next match.  
   
 Q.   Does it feel different coming back as the champion?   Do you have the pressure?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I felt when I play my first match, but today was really nicer for me and easier.   So I hope that it's gone already.   
   
 Q.   Gilles Simon suggested he felt the men should be paid more than the women.   What is your response?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Oh, I think what we can do as a female tennis player is go on the court and try our best tennis, and I hope that the people enjoy it.   I don't think it's about the length, but about equality.   I think women deserve in all walks of life, not in just the tennis.   
I hope that the people enjoy it.   That's it.   
   
 Q.   He said the men's game is more entertaining than the women's game.   Would you disagree with that?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I don't think so.   I think some people likes longer matches and some shorter.   So I think the people can find the good match for them.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT