QATAR TOTAL OPEN
March 5, 2021
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  P. KVITOVA/J. Pegula
 6-4, 6-4
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. Looking back at some of your past history, why do you think you do so well in Doha?  I mean, you have won a title and it always seems like you're among the top finishers year in and year out.
 PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, that's a good question.  I would love to know it, as well, why I'm playing well in Doha.  I would love to play everywhere very well, but of course sometimes it's not easy (smiling).
 But anyway, it's tough.  I mean, in Doha we have so many conditions.  Like today was so windy, and I'm not sure if it was matter of tennis but it was really about putting lot of balls into the court.  But then Jessica played really great and I really have to play great, as well.
 But overall I think I just like the conditions.  I mean, it's flying very nicely.  The court is a little bit slower, but still I have a good rhythm for it so that's important.
 Q. Speaking of the wind, how much of a factor was it in terms of, you know, both you and Jessie had difficulty throughout, it seemed like, holding your serve, but at the same time you certainly took advantage of the service breaks, especially in the second set.
 PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, I think that at the beginning it was a little windy and like when we played a little bit longer it was a little bit less.  But still, it was there.
 I think in these conditions you can't really go for the aces.  You just have to, you know, put it somehow there, because it's pretty dangerous to play from the second serve or when it's really windy like today.  That was probably how we played, both of us, actually.
 Sometimes of course if you are up or down, you just try to risk a little bit the serve, which I did few times.  Yeah, I made some points from it, as well, especially, you know, the last game was very important for me, because from that side I couldn't win the game.
 So for me it was really tough, but I'm glad how I was able to came back from, you know, break down in the second set, be 3-Love down and 4-2 and I was still able to make it.  So that's really good for me.
 Q. You and Jessie played a few months ago, and she said that was a pretty inspiring opportunity for her, really helped her to start playing the season as well as she has.  How differently, if you remember how she played at the US Open, is she playing now in your opinion?
 PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, already I think in the US Open I think she played great.  So I can't really -- you know, it's tough really to compare, because today was just totally different conditions.  It's really tough really to talk about tennis that much.
 But definitely since last year, she improved a lot.  Definitely she's playing really well.  She doesn't seem like 44 on the ranking.
 Yeah, as she showed here, I mean, beating Karolina yesterday, having great matches already, playing well in the Australian Open, I mean, she will really go much up in the ranking.
 Q. Your game is so much about timing.  When it's windy like that, do you kind of get a sense that it's going to be one of those days like in the warmup?  And what kind of adjustments have you learned to make over the course of your career?
 PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, it's tough.  When I see it's windy, it's like, Oh, no, it will be tough day.  Mentally, for sure.
 But, you know, the opponents feel the same.  Everybody likes, you know, smooth conditions, no sun, no wind, anything like this.  So it's always the both sides the same for us.
 Even in the warmup I didn't have a warmup on the center court, so it was even windier, I think, so it was really tough.
 At the beginning, you know, we have been still even.  Few games I felt like, Oh, no, this is impossible to play in.  And then it was, like, Okay, somehow I just put it in.
 But, you know, it's really tough.  You really have to think about which way the wind is going, from which side to side, and you have to play a little bit smarter, I would say.
 Q. I suppose looking ahead to the final now, do you think maybe getting that game where Garbine was unlucky enough not to get her game, do you think that helps you going into the final?  Do you think it's worth a few points?
 PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, I mean, first of all, just being in the final for me, it's great.  We played many times already against Garbine.  We played a final here 2018, as well, which was roller coaster.  I know she's really in great form.  She's playing really well.
 So we will see.  I mean, it will be nice to, you know, nice match, for sure.  We play similar game, so it will be really I think about a few points as it was in the past.
 Q. Reaching the final, consistency has been the key for you.  You have been very consistent in this tournament right throughout.  Your form hasn't really dipped at all in terms of any sort of sets.  You must be fairly confident where your game is at heading into the final?
 PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, yeah, I am for sure.  I had great three matches against three great players, which, you know, always giving the confidence.  So that's what I'm really pleased with.
 Yeah, it's final, so I love finals.  Doesn't matter how it will end up.  But just being in the final of the tournament is already great.  I will really enjoy it.  I am really enjoying whole week here in Doha.  I'm really looking forward.
 Q. Just talking a little bit more about that last match against Garbine, it's been since that final since you played her.  What do you remember specifically about that win?  And what difference does it make to you to come home from a week with a title?  Even though you had a great result, great matches, but to win that trophy, what difference does that make for you at this point in the career?
 PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, if that happened, I will answer it tomorrow (smiling).  I remember that match 2018 from here.  I was down 5-0, was so tired from my previous matches here.  I don't know.  I just find a way.  I was just fighting every point.
 I know it was windy, as well.  It was just about a few points in the end.  So that's what I really remember.  It was tough one.  It was a three-setter, and that's, yeah, it will be tough one again tomorrow.
 Q. Not to harp on this wind again, but in terms of the conditions today, what are the things you focus on from a tactics perspective so that you can play your best tennis regardless of what the conditions were today on court?
 PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, I mean, yeah, I think we can't play the best tennis if the conditions are like today.  Of course some players will deal better with it than the other ones.  It depends probably on the game, as well, and how they are serving.  So I would say that, you know, probably more consistent player will deal it a little bit better, I think.
 But it's a lot of adjustments.  It's like, yeah, once I just didn't see the ball and it was under the racquet, and I didn't even touch it.  So I was like, Uh-Oh.  That's embarrassing (smiling).
 But that's how it is.  I mean, sometimes I can't do anything, and just waiting and just putting to the middle sometimes probably is the best and just try whatever you can and when you have a ball just go for it.  It's nothing real easy to deal with it.
 Q. For you all week long, and I asked you this after one of your earlier matches, you have done such a good job with your first serve and using that first serve to set up the rest of the point.  How important will that serve be tomorrow in the final?  What are some of the things you think about you'll have to do to pull off the win?
 PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, the serve will be really key for tomorrow, for sure.  I know Garbine is serving very well even in the wind, so it doesn't matter the conditions will be.
 She likes to play here, as well.  That's what she showed already this week.  So it will be -- yeah, I think it will be a little bit about the serve and return, for sure, about the first points, who gonna attack it first, because she likes to play aggressively as well as me.
 That's how everything will be, and I'm really looking forward.  I didn't play her for three years, so yeah, it will be great.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT