AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 18, 2020
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How are you feeling with your preparations after your good run in Brisbane? Do you feel positive about where you are?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, I've been in Adelaide, too. Pulled out of the tournament obviously. Probably you know.   
Since then, yeah, I came here on Tuesday and I started to practice. I had a few days of good practices. A little bit tired, so it's normal.   
Yeah, I think I had a good time on the court and off the court, as well. Of course now it's kind of a time when I have to recover from it, be ready for Monday.   
 Q.  In the last week, how have you found the air quality here?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, I was kind of lucky because, yeah, I've been here for two days when was the air not great. But we play indoor. We played with the roof closed. So luckily it wasn't that bad for me.   
Of course, I saw some qualification players, which wasn't really nice. I hope that everybody knows that we are doing good things.   
 Q.  Last year you won Sydney and came right into the Australian Open, managed your energy level pretty well to make the final. Having done a good tournament in Brisbane, is it different, the preparation, this year because not playing an event before slams which you generally like to do?  
PETRA KVITOVA: It is different. But I think now it's almost everything different. To have kind of new team, as well. Everything, it's a bit different.   
But so far I'm happy with everything, yeah. I had great matches in Brisbane. I was exhausted afterwards. That's why I had to pull out, take care of my body. I'm not young any more, so I need to be more worry about it.   
Yeah, it's wouldn't be really making sense to play there. It would be really tough physically. Yeah, I'm feeling good. It's good for now.   
 Q.  On the air quality again, do you think it's easier or harder for those playing on the inside courts or the outside courts?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I think it's tough for everybody. It doesn't really matter where you are really playing. When you are closing the roof, it's just closing right now, maybe it's a little bit worse than outside then because it's not air any more, and it's tough to breathe.   
I think in the last couple of days, I see the sky very clearly. It's nice.   
 Q.  When you think back to last year's Australian Open, do you have happy memories or did losing the final in such dramatic circumstances stay with you for longer than you would like?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Definitely stayed longer than I would like, for sure. It's took me a while to get over the loss. In the end of the day, it was much more positive things. Of course, we are still having it in mind that it's only about the winner. It's been very painful for me to lost that final.   
You know, on the other hand, I didn't really -- could take any of the magic. After so many years being in the final, it's a great achievement. I should take it very positive. Even now when I'm here, it's really feeling very nicely and I do have the best memories.   
 Q.  Given you have suffered from asthma, were you alarmed watching the qualifying rounds being played in such conditions?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, actually I've been a bit worry about it. Now I'm very happy that, as I mentioned, the sky, it's there again clearly. Yeah, of course everybody knows that I do have asthma problems, which I wasn't really happy about that if the air is still bad.   
It's same for everybody, so it will be really difficult to breathe for sure. I do have my medicines here, as well. Yeah, I'm going to use it if it's important.   
 Q.  Have you had the opportunity to speak to Craig Tiley or the players council to make sure you're comfortable with the approach they've taken?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I'm very comfortable with everything they've taken.   
 Q.  Tennis has become more and more physical over the years. There's someone from Belgium is going to try a comeback.  
PETRA KVITOVA: Who?   
 Q.  Kim Clijsters.  
PETRA KVITOVA: Really (laughter)?   
 Q.  I was wondering if you think after seven years of stopping, not competing at the highest level, she can be successful again, can be a contender, one of your rivals?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I like Kim, for sure. Pretty honest, she has a big courage she's coming back for sure after seven years. I can't imagine myself probably after three kids and seven years, having no matches going, being competitive again.   
I don't know. For me it will probably impossible. But Kim has a great talent. She always worked very hard. She has a great game. Actually me, I'm curious as well how she will do. But I hope that she will be successful.   
 Q.  Would you like to play her again?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, for sure.   
 Q.  Talking about Brisbane, once you got through that tournament, obviously fatigue in the end. Physically was everything okay, arm, shoulder?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Thank you, Courtney, for asking (laughter).   
Everything felt good. That's really important. I'm not playing any more with the sleeve or the tape on the forearm. We've been working on it pretty hardly, playing tennis in the practices and in the off-season, as well.   
In the off-season, I still felt a little bit of pain. But it's getting much, much better. I'm glad I don't have to play with the sleeve any more.   
 Q.  Caroline Wozniacki will play her last tournament in Australia. Will you miss her?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I will, for sure, yeah. We are good friends with Caro. We are same age. Yeah, it will be definitely weird not to see her on-site, on the tournaments, in the field as well.   
She looks very happy, so I hope that she going to be happy when she stop playing tennis as well. I just wish her the best.   
 Q.  Is it too early?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I don't mind. Everybody's decisions... If it's the right time for her, then why not?   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT