AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 19, 2012
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 E. MAKAROVA/P. Kvitova
  7‑5, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   What are your thoughts on that?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, yeah, that's good question.   (Smiling.)  
No, I mean, yeah, it was tough opponent for me for the first round, and I didn't play well.   So it's‑‑I mean, she has won here in the past, so I know that she can play well on the grass.   So it wasn't very easy to play.  
I mean, for me, was the first match on the grass, and I didn't expect too much.   It's not good preparation for the Wimbledon, but I mean, I have more days for getting ready for the Wimbledon, and I have to work hard now to improve my game.  
   
 Q.   How many days were you able to practice before the match today on grass?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   We came here on Thursday, and I start to play on Friday.   So I play three days before on the grass.  
   
 Q.   How damaging is it to only have one game, one match going into Wimbledon?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, how I said already, I mean, it's not as great preparation for Wimbledon as last year, but I think that it's better to happen here than in Wimbledon.  
   
 Q.   How do you feel physically?   I know you were struggling with a bunch of injuries through the clay season.   How are you feeling now?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I feel well.   I mean, I don't have really some big injuries, so I'm feeling healthy and be ready, so I have to really have a good preparation for few days now, and then I can go early to Wimbledon and I expect.   So I hope that I get to feel the court there.  
   
 Q.   What do you think of your serving today?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   My serve?   Yeah, I think that it's could be better.   Every shot I play today can be better, and I have to improve.  
I mean, yeah, I did some double faults.   But in the important points I did well, so I did some aces, and, yeah, I need to improve this, too.   
   
 Q.   Last year you had a series of titles, a bunch of titles through this point in time.   This year you haven't had that, but you made two slam semifinals.   Going into Wimbledon, how much confidence does that give you kind of knowing that you don't need to rack up the titles in order to go far?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, yeah, I'm not thinking like this.   I had a tough season from the beginning.   I was injured, so I didn't practice very well before.   
I'm happy with my result what I did on the Grand Slams, and, yeah, of course it could be better but it's always like this.  
Yeah, I mean, before the Wimbledon I don't have a title, but, I mean, I'm looking forward for the matches there, and I hope that my game improved and I can play my best there.  
   
 Q.   When you broke her serve when she was serving for the match, did you think you'd kind of got out of trouble there?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   In the second set?   
   
 Q.   Yes.   
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, I thought that it's only one break, and I breaked her before in the first set, so I knew that I can break her again and I did it, but unfortunately in the 4‑5 with my serve I didn't play the good things what I had to play.   
Yeah, I mean, when I break her, it was good game for me.   I did four winners, I think, so it was really amazing, but it was only one game so it's not enough.   (Smiling.)  
   
 Q.   You said yesterday that winning Wimbledon changed your life.   Can you give us a few examples of what happened to you in that respect?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I think that everything changed from the outside.   I mean, it was that the people recognize me everywhere, and I had a lot of things to do at the media, sponsors.   
Yeah, I mean, before the tournament I had all‑access hour yesterday, and on the court it was like more pressure what I felt on my back, and, yeah, the players I played, like, they tried to play their best and they have nothing to lose.   So, I mean, from this position it was a really good change.  
   
 Q.   Did you enjoy being famous, or was it at times a bit of a setback?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, I can say that I'm enjoying, but sometimes it's too much.   But sometimes it's fine.   It's depends how I'm tired.  
Yeah, I think that this way it's better to be famous than without Wimbledon.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT