AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 19, 2012
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







P. KVITOVA/C. Suarez Navarro
  6‑2, 2‑6, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   She gave you quite a good fight out there. 
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, she gave.   I mean, it was very important match to have like this in this tournament.   It's good that I through and I have won. 
I mean, she played very well in the second set.   It was very tough for me to get back in the third.   I mean, yeah, she was very, very good opponent.   I mean, you know, she beat here Venus and she's playing very well.   She has a good (indiscernible) and she can play well how she played.

Q.   Is she a tough opponent to get to go away?   She just seems to always be there. 
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah.   Of course, in the beginning I played very well and had many winners.   Then I had a little mistakes and it was tough to get back because, you know, she played faster. 
I don't know what she will play.   It will be winners or some slice or she go to the net.   So I was really little bit confused on the court. 
I tried to get back and play more rallies and more shots in court. 

Q.   Is it good for you to have a test?
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, I think so, for sure.   For my mentality, it was very tough, and I fight today.   So, I mean, it was good preparation for next match.   I know that I can fight and I can win if I'm playing badly. 

Q.   And the next match?
PETRA KVITOVA:   And the next match, actually I don't know who I'm playing, so I don't know (smiling). 

Q.   When you go through those streaks where you're making a lot of mistakes, what is going through your mind when that's happening?
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, I was hectic, you know.   It's my game that I'm playing winners.   The mistakes is my game, it's part of my game.   So I know that I will have some mistakes. 
But today was too many.   You know, it's very tough to get back because you know that she moved very well and she got, I mean, everything.   Then I just try to get more shots and be in the rallies with her and playing smarter.   It was the key. 

Q.   Have you gotten used to being the Wimbledon champion?   You seemed, particularly there, more of a private person.   You don't care much about the notoriety, you care about the tennis. 
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yes, of course, the tennis, it's my job.   I like play very well and improve in my game.   I mean, this is important for me.   Other things is on the other side. 

Q.   I've heard you say before you don't like to look at rankings too much.   After all the success you've had, it must be nice to look at rankings now. 
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yes, of course, I'm really happy that I'm No. 2.   Who not?   It's great to be No. 2, but this is really something new for me.   Everything, it's different. 
I mean, yeah, it was easy to play like 30 and be as an outsider in the match.   This is really different for me. 
Yeah, I mean, I have to fine with this, and this is part of my life now. 

Q.   Would you give any thought to the fact that you could be one of the players that leaves here with the No.1 ranking?
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, I know that we are some players who can be No.1 after that tournament.   But it's not in my head.   It's in the future.   So we will see in the 14 days. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT