BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 11, 2012
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. McHALE/P. Kvitova
  2‑6, 6‑2, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   What's your assessment of the match?   What happened?   
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, I mean, yeah, it was a little tough match to play against her.  
I mean, in the beginning was fine.   I played really good; after the first set, no.   I was sick and I had antibiotics, so I lost a little bit of my fitness.   So it was tough to moving and having winners.  
I mean, she's moving very well, so she played a lot of shots to back.   Yeah.   My serve was not too good, too.   So it was tough.  
   
 Q.   You don't feel well?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, actually, not really.   I mean, the first set was fine, but after this was...   
   
 Q.   Are you sick like you've been throwing up?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, I was sick like two weeks ago, and I had antibiotics and everything.   But anyway, she played very solid and she didn't had many mistakes, so it was tough.  
   
 Q.   Seemed like after the first set the speed on your serve, on your first serve went way down.   Was it your back or shoulder, or you just didn't have energy and power?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   No, it wasn't like shoulder or back, but it was like about the legs.   Because really I couldn't be like still with the energy and I lost it.   So it was in the serve too and in the shot and in the moving.  
   
 Q.   And in the forehand you couldn't move your legs very well; is that it?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Ask my coach.   (Smiling.)  
I think so.  
   
 Q.   How much have you been able to train since getting the virus?   How many days have you been able to get back to practice?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, actually, I practice like five days at home ‑ five days to one week, I'm not sure ‑ and then we came here on Sunday.   
So, I mean, I had some days for getting ready to matches.   Yeah, I mean, the first match when I played here was fine.   It wasn't too long.   Yeah, it was fine.  
But, yeah, today was not too good.  
   
 Q.   Is it your Achilles still?   Is your leg okay, your Achilles injury?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, I mean, I'm not feeling any pain.   It's just about energy and what I lost.  
   
 Q.   She gets a lot of balls back; she moves well; what's challenging about playing her?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, I mean, next time when I play against her I will have to play the game when I played the first set.   So, I mean, have a better serve, not did many double faults, and play aggressive and going for the net.  
   
 Q.   The sickness you got, is it related to your stomach like the players are getting here, or is it a different type of sickness?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, actually, I was sick at home, so, no.   I'm feeling good and I don't have any problem with the stomach, so I'm lucky.  
   
 Q.   But when you were at home was it your stomach or just head?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   No, actually I had a temperature, really high temperature, so they gave me antibiotics to come down.  
   
 Q.   You won the biggest title in our sport.   Since then, what has been the single either most fun or most surprising thing that's happened to you?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, you mean the Wimbledon?   
   
 Q.   Yes, I do.   
PETRA KVITOVA:   Okay.   I got it.   
Well, I mean, yeah, it was great success for me, and after this I'm in a different position.   So it's really different to play.   I can't say that it's tougher, but, yeah, I have more pressure.  
But still, I like tennis.   So for me, it's always nice to be healthy and play.  
   
 Q.   I know that McHale is not so tall, but did you feel that her groundstrokes or ball was pretty hard and pretty good?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, I mean, yeah, when she's moving it's really ‑ how I say ‑   she's very solid, so she not have like many mistakes.   
And some player as me who is play aggressive, yeah, I mean, it's tough to be still in rally and play.   I mean, I wanted to do like this and waiting for the big, big shot, but I couldn't.   So, yeah.   
   
 Q.   Are you frustrated by your results in the U.S. hard courts?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, I mean, I won here one match.   I mean, it's much better than last year.   (Smiling).  
But, yeah, I have to still like‑‑ I need some time.   
   
 Q.   No problem with your breathing today?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, a little bit in the third set.   But, I mean, it was about the fitness so it wasn't like about the asthma.     
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT