AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 26, 2012
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. SHARAPOVA/P. Kvitova
  6‑2, 3‑6, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   You seemed to get some momentum in that second set.   How did the third set play out to Maria's advantage, do you think?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, actually, wanted to continue my play what I played in the second set, and, I mean, I had a lot of chances to break her.  
I mean, I didn't do it, and it was really tough to be like concentrate on my serve.   I know that all games in the third set I served very well, and then was a game that I didn't really have like first serves or something, and she return very well in this game.  
Yeah, it was unfortunate for me.  
   
 Q.   Was that the difference?   She took advantage of her break point opportunities?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, yeah, I mean, she played some break points very well, but, yeah, I mean, I could be more aggressive and more go for the winners and not only waiting, waiting what she's can do.  
   
 Q.   There was a challenge at 4‑All in the third set that would have given you Love‑40.   Do you think that was a big turning point in the end of the match?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   No, I don't think so.   I mean, actually I don't remember this challenge, so I don't think so (smiling).  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about how you feel overall?   Are you disappointed not to get through today?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yes, of course I'm disappointed right now.   I mean, if I look back, I don't know, in week, for example, it will be good tournament for me, first semifinal in the Australian Open.  
But, you know, I fight and nothing, nothing at all.   So, I mean, yeah, I have to say that Maria play good tennis today.   
Yeah, so, I mean, now I'm really sad, but in the next days it will be fine.  
   
 Q.   Are you going to the Laureusin London.   How do you see your chances there?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Where?  
THE MODERATOR:   The Laureus Awards.   
   
 Q.   How do you see your chances there?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   I don't know, actually.   Actually, I don't care now right now about this.   We will see.   
A lot of great sportswomen with me, so it's really tough to say anything.   But I'm looking forward to be there, of course.   
   
 Q.   Were there any big changes in her performance in this match compared to the Wimbledon final?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   You know, it was grass and here is the hard court.   So I mean, it's something in change, but still the game what we are playing is the still the same.  
And, I mean, probably I play more aggressive in the Wimbledon and didn't have like a lot of mistakes what I did today.  
But, anyway, it's there.   I mean, it was fine match for the people, hopefully.   I'm looking forward for the next matches.   
   
 Q.   Do you still have some meanings on that No. 1?   I mean, in the future, you can get it, as well.   
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, yeah.   I mean, in the future it's can do.   Like many of us who is really top can be No. 1.   Yeah, we are fighting again about the No. 1.  
   
 Q.   Are you going to hang around here to watch Adam?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Maybe tomorrow.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT