AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 25, 2012
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 P. KVITOVA/S. Errani
  6‑4, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   A win is a win, and you're back in the semifinals.   But it looks like it was a bit of a struggle out there.   What were your sensations today?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, yeah, of course, I'm really like to be here in the semifinal here in the Australian.   Yeah, is the second my best result in a Grand Slam, so really it's nice.   
Yeah, of course, I want to win the semifinals, too.   I try my best, as always.   Hopefully it will be nice match.   
   
 Q.   Today how were you feeling on the court?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Actually, the beginning I was a little nervous because I knew that everybody expect it will be easy match.   Probably I had in my head that it's, I mean, good draw.   But, anyway, Sara played very well and she was great.   She had a great tournament here.   
I mean, she has to play very well because she won the matches before, so it wasn't really easy match.   
   
 Q.   Talk about your comeback in the second set.   You were down 4‑1.   
PETRA KVITOVA:   Actually, in this score I played like I want to have many winners in a short time and I had mistakes.   Then it was really similar in the second what I played.   I just tried to be focused on every point, nothing around, only the shot what I'm playing, go really like attack every point, but not really go for the winners from the second shots.   
I had to wait for the time when I go for the winners.   Yeah, the mistakes were really lower, and that's was the key in the second set.   
   
 Q.   You have a pretty good chance to be No.1.   Can you talk about that.   
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, I mean, it's the chance for three of us.   So, I mean, really it's nothing to talk right now.   
   
 Q.   Would that be something special for you?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Ask me after.   
   
 Q.   Did you change your racquet when you were 2‑4 down?   
PETRA KVITOVA:   Actually, I always change the racquet if it's new balls.   So it was same this match, yeah.   
   
 Q.   Different from playing with Makarova in the next round, the semifinal or Sharapova?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, it doesn't matter.   They play right now.   I know Sharapova is up right now.   I mean, it really doesn't matter, but I think that Sharapova win.   
   
 Q.   What has being the Wimbledon champion given to you?   What are the positives?   Has there been anything negative from it?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, I don't think so there's any negative.   But we are really like most famous on the tennis tour.   Win the Grand Slam and the Wimbledon is special for you, and I'm really happy that I won that, of course.   
I mean, it's a lot of positive.   Of course, you have a little pressure on your back because you have a Grand Slam and everybody is expecting that you win all matches when you play.   
But it's not really easy way.   Yeah, that's why I'm really happy to be in the semifinal here.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel more confidence because you are a Wimbledon champion?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, yeah, I think so.   You know, this experience is what I got in the Wimbledon is help for me, for example, here on this tournament.   
So I think so.   
   
 Q.   How do you compare your level now and your Wimbledon level?   In Wimbledon you beat Sharapova.   
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, it was the final.   I think it was a really good match from both sides.   
How I can compare?   I can't because it was grass and here is the hard court.   I mean, it will be similar match as the Wimbledon, but still it's can be different, I mean.   But tactics will be the same as the Wimbledon.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about your experiences with Maria and Ekaterina previously.   
PETRA KVITOVA:   Actually, I played against Sharapova in Tokyo.   Unfortunately she retired.   But, yeah, I remember something.   I mean, like if I am playing Makarova, Sharapova, it doesn't matter.   
I have to play my game as always and be aggressive but not really hectic and be focused on every point and it's easy.   
   
 Q.   Why do you think you were able to come back today?   What did you do well?   
PETRA KVITOVA:   What do I did well?   Actually, I think I didn't play like stupid and I tried to be really to play what I have to play.   
I think that moving on the court was good.   My serve, I think that I have the high percentage from the first serve.   
   
 Q.   On a lighter note, there's been a lot of talk about the birds that have been in Rod Laver Arena at this tournament.   Have you noticed them?   Have they been a distraction at all to players?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, I mean, yeah, sometimes you see the birds what is going around on the court, and sometimes I confused a little bit on the court when I see it.   
Anyway, it's the condition for both players the same.   I mean, I don't care anyway.   
   
 Q.   You had tape on your left leg today.   Is it something old or you got it in the last match?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Actually, I feel a little my left hamstring like two days ago.   I have to say that today was much better than yesterday, for example.   Yeah, the tape was there.   I mean, it wasn't too bad, but it was like for protection today.   
   
 Q.   What is the significance of the towel that you put on your head at the change of ends?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, sometimes I do it because I'm a little confused or not really focused on game.   I try be only like with myself and don't see anybody and anything on the court, just thinking about the game.   
   
 Q.   Would you prefer officials to do something about the birds?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, probably, but I don't know what can they do better.   
   
 Q.   Try to get an eagle in to scare them away.   
PETRA KVITOVA:   No, I mean, it's not really bad how you see on the TV, for example.   Sometimes it's there, but it's not really worst thing.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT