APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 10, 2012
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







P. KVITOVA/A. Dulgheru
  7‑5, 3‑6, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   A few tough three‑setters from some of the top seeds today.   Was it hard work out there?
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, of course.   For me, for myself, it's the first match in the tournament and first outdoor. 
Yeah, actually I played four matches in Perth, but this is really different.   Yeah, I have to be with this condition with the winds and sun. 
It's still long way. 

Q.   You played her twice before.   You played her last year twice and lost to her at the US Open.   Does that help a little bit coming from indoors to outdoors?   Did it help that you knew your opponent? 
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, I mean, yeah.   I lost against here in the US Open.   It was a little bit in my head.   I wanted to win today, of course. 
Yeah, it's a little bit different, and it was really tough to play against her as a first round for me here. 

Q.   Why did you want to play Sydney?   You played Hopman Cup and could have gone to Melbourne.   Why did you come do Sydney? 
PETRA KVITOVA:   Because I need some really matches before the Melbourne.   I know that I played four matches in Perth, but it wasn't really tournament. 
I need to play outdoor some matches before the Melbourne.

Q.   What did you find tough about the conditions?   You indicated that maybe adjusting from Perth to Sydney was difficult. 
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, actually we were practicing outdoor in Perth, but the matches was indoor.   I practice only yesterday out of door. 
For me, the sun and the wind, it's the toughest condition for me. 

Q.   What sort of things do you do for recovery? 
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, you know, normal stretching and some bicycle and normal ways as usually.   (Smiling.)

Q.   Do you normally find the heat difficult, or is it just because you're coming back and it's a new season?
PETRA KVITOVA:   I think it's only when I coming back. 

Q.   You won Fed Cup, Hopman Cup.   How much of a lift do you get from that?
PETRA KVITOVA:   I really like this competition when we are a team and playing as Czech Republic.   The Fed Cup was really great to play on the last week what we play in the season. 
And with Tomas, he's great.   It was very nice to be with him in the week.
No, it's just most relaxed.   It's something different when I compare with the tournaments. 

Q.   Did you feel like you did anything particularly well on the court today that you're happy with and you can take into your next match?
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, for sure is the serve.   When I go outdoor it's the most big problem for me. 
But today was really good serve for me. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT