APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 9, 2012
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   What was it like playing Caroline so early in the season? 
PETRA KVITOVA:   How was it?   I mean, you know, it was not really tournament when we played.   It was good match for us.   It was good preparation for the tournament and for the Grand Slam.
Yeah, we saw a little bit how we prepared.   I mean, Caroline played very well and was good match from both sides.

Q.   You've been having a great run indoors.   Are you hoping it rains a bit in Melbourne?
PETRA KVITOVA:   (Smiling.)   Yeah, I have to hope that it will be rain and the roof, it will be close. 
No, actually, yeah, I played really well indoor, but still the most tournaments are outdoor, so I have to still try to play out there too good. 

Q.   Are you aware that if you win this tournament you'll take over as No. 1 in the world? 
PETRA KVITOVA:   If I know it? 

Q.   Yeah, do you know that? 
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, I read in newspaper, so I know about this.   But, you know, this tournament is very tough and everybody is playing here. 
I mean, it's the final rounds of the Grand Slam, so it's not easy to win these matches and this tournament.
So it's only words. 

Q.   Is it a distraction at all, the talk about you being No. 1 heading to Melbourne potentially?
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, I'm still hearing this question about the first position in WTA.   And, yeah, sometimes it's really crazy. 
I don't know what I have to answer all the time, but, you know, what I still saying is that I'm not really focus on the first spot. 

Q.   You had sort of a lull last season after you won Wimbledon.   You had a tough summer.   How important was it for you to go to Perth and get all those quality matches there and then come here and you've got such a great draw, the top 32 here, too?
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, after Wimbledon I had not really good result, but still the end of the season was great for me.   Hopefully it will be continuing in the start of the season.   I mean, the part I played very well for matches, and is good preparation for the Grand Slam and for the Sydney. 
Of course now I'm a little tired from the Perth.   Yeah, I'm playing tomorrow, but I try my best, as usual.

Q.   You say the last match against Caroline wasn't a competition match.   Does that still give you confidence when you've beaten her? 
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, it was matches as usual.   We, both of us, we wanted to win, so it was normal match, but it was not normal tournament. 
The confidence, yeah, I'm happy that I won, but it's something different.   We played very well.   I mean, it's tough to say anything because it was not like about the points and something like that. 

Q.   Are you enjoying your time in the spotlight now that you're No. 2 in the world and Wimbledon champion?
PETRA KVITOVA:   (Smiling.)   Sometimes.   Sometimes is too many things to do.   I know that it's part of this life. 
Yeah, I know that if I'm No. 2 it's a lot of things to do.   I have not really time for the practice and for the tennis, but still we have to try to find out and be still improve in the tennis what is my game. 

Q.   In the off‑season you went to the mountains od Slovakia to do some training; is that right? 
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, I had three weeks off and I was at home.   I had 14 days to preparation in the mountains in Slovakia where was the snow and there was the fitness preparation.
There we had to practice in the Prostejov when we try to improve my techniques and tactics.

Q.   So in the summer when you go to Slovakia, do you go running up in the mountains?
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah.

Q.   The altitude help?
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, sure.   The altitude there is very good for my asthma and I can breathe well there. 
Yeah, we are a lot of running and we are in the gym, and of course we take the walk to the mountains and see the beautiful places there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT