AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 15, 2012
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Petra.   
   
 Q.   How are you feeling about your preparations for the tournament?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, I mean, yeah, I played two weeks great matches before.   I'm feeling very well.   I'm healthy, what is important for me.   
I'm feeling good.   
   
 Q.   We saw you hitting with Li Na this morning.   Is she a regular training partner for you?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Actually, we organized the practice after our own match in Sydney.   She's very nice, have a smile all the time on face.   She's great.   So it was good.   
   
 Q.   It's pretty rare for two top women players to practice together.   Is that something you want to do more of?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Is it?   
   
 Q.   I get the sense there's more of it in the men's game.   Would you agree with that?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   No.   For me it really doesn't matter.   If the other girl wants play, why not?   And we are in the opposite half, so it's not problem really.   
   
 Q.   You do look at that when you're picking partner?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah.   But, of course, we didn't know we will be in opposite half before, so doesn't matter.   
   
 Q.   What do you think about Li, after what happened to you in Sydney?   Do you think she's a threat here?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, I think she's playing very well.   She's very good on the legs, she's moving, playing really fast.   I mean, she can go really far in this tournament.   
   
 Q.   In the Hopman Cup you did pretty well against some top‑10 players.   Do you see them as other threats as well?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   You mean Bartoli?   
   
 Q.   Bartoli and Wozniacki.   
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, they are really great players and they know how is it in the Grand Slams.   I think that they are good prepared for the tournament.   
   
 Q.   What are your thoughts for the year ahead?   Do you think you can exceed what you did last year?   
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, I mean, the last year was great for me.   Of course, I had many results.   It will be very tough to have similar results this year.   
I know it will be very tough, but still I just want to be focused on my game and we will see.   
   
 Q.   How has your life changed since you won Wimbledon?   Did you become more famous in your own country?   Do you feel more pressure, more attention?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, I think so.   I'm more famous in Czech.   After Wimbledon was the first really big (indiscernible).   Yeah, it's really strange for me.   
I'm already get used to.   So, yeah, I mean, it's the part of our life.   We have to live with this.  
   
 Q.   How about the prospect of maybe becoming No.1?   You already were very close in Sydney.   
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, I mean, it's very close, but still it's really far away because, you know, many players can be really top, higher one.   I mean, it's really open now, the women's tennis.   Everybody from top can play really well.   
I know it's just some points, but still it's really big step.   
   
 Q.   What would it mean to you?   
PETRA KVITOVA:   Actually it's tough to answer now when I'm still No. 2.   Ask me maybe later.   
   
 Q.   Has that No.1 ranking always been a goal of yours?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   No.   Actually when I start play tennis, I didn't think I would be professional tennis player.   So for me won the Wimbledon, Championships, Fed Cup, it wasn't my dream.   But it's very nice.   
Yeah, if I maybe can be No.1, it will be very nice, too, of course.  
   
 Q.   What happened that made you realize you would go on and be a professional player and when was that?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   When?   
   
 Q.   Yes.   
PETRA KVITOVA:   Actually around 16 I moved to Prostejov where we have a very big tennis center, and there I practiced.   
   
 Q.   The Czech girls are very strong at the moment.   You have a lot of players in the top 50.   Why do you think that is?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   It's just the same because actually I don't know.   No, really.   We wants to be better and better, and we practice a lot.   Actually, I don't know.   
   
 Q.   How much work have you done on your English?   How much more comfortable do you feel now in press conferences?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   Actually after Wimbledon, I had a lot of press and a lot of media.   I had to improve my English.   
Yeah, I'm still little bit nervous, but it's much better.   
   
 Q.   Did you work on it in the off‑season especially?  
PETRA KVITOVA:   No.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT