TEB BNP PARIBAS WTA CHAMPIONSHIPS
October 27, 2011
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







P. KVITOVA/C. Wozniacki
  6-4, 6-2

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Obviously she was maybe ailing a little bit, but talk about your level just today and the other day. You seemed to be very confident and moving well. 
 PETRA KVITOVA: Actually, it was like she wasn't okay. This looks like she didn't move very well how she can.
 Yeah, she said maybe she's a little bit sick or something like that. It was very strange game. But, I mean, of course I'm happy that I won, but yeah, sometimes I felt like work on the court when I play against Caroline because I know that she's not okay.

 Q. It's been about a year -- you didn't play her this year at all, so do you feel like you've become a much more dangerous player than the last time you played her?
 PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I mean, indoor it's different for me, of course. I mean, I can play faster than outdoors.
 So, I mean, I'm more dangerous indoor also for her for sure.

 Q. Turkish fans have different cycle, as you know. It's very difficult to win this sport. Today you manage to win them. How did you do it? They supported you against... 
 PETRA KVITOVA: I know. I don't know. Maybe they liked me. (Smiling).
 It's tough question. I don't know really. Maybe they like how I'm playing, or it's tough to say.

 Q. Was it any more motivation today to play Caroline? You know, you're 21 years old and you won a slam. She's 21 and she's No. 1. Were you extra excited to play today?
 PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I wasn't nervous like against Vera before the match, but I of course have a motivation for every match what I'm playing. So it wasn't different. And, I mean, sometimes it's tough to play against Caroline because we are good friends, but it wasn't like more different like the matches, others. 

 Q. Did you notice, before she took the timeout with the doctor, did you notice that she wasn't feeling well?
 PETRA KVITOVA: No. I wasn't. 

 Q. You obviously started the year outside of the top 30, and now you're No. 3 and in the semifinals of this tournament. Did you expect to have done this well so quickly?
 PETRA KVITOVA: No, I didn't. It was like big step for me.
 I mean, nobody think that I can be in the top 5 in this end of season. So it's surprise for all of us. 

 Q. And also, obviously about Wozniacki and being No. 1, is that a big goal for you, to be No. 1? Or would you say you'd rather win a Grand Slam?
 PETRA KVITOVA: No, it's not big goal before me. I just want to improve my game and every part of my game. I don't like look at the ranking, what number is before my name. So we will see. 

 Q. So your coach came out. What do you think of on-court coaching? Do you like it? Are you using it more than you used to?
 PETRA KVITOVA: Well, if it's indoor, why not I can use it, for sure, because they would have some special idea sometime. So it helps sometime, of course, but I know on the Grand Slam, for example, it's not, but -- I mean, I don't care, really. 

 Q. Do you find yourself at a Grand Slam thinking like, oh, I want to call my coach out, but, oh, I can't?
 PETRA KVITOVA: No.

 Q. Never?
 PETRA KVITOVA: No.

 Q. If you were to pick the top women's player, the player of the year this year, including yourself, who would you pick?
 PETRA KVITOVA: I don't know. (Smiling.)
 No, really, I mean, all eight players, we are here. It's improve in game, and, I mean, it's really tough to pick out only one.

 Q. No one's really won the season so much better than everyone else, right?
 PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, but I don't want to say me, so... (Laughter.)

 Q. You know, you obviously won Wimbledon and you're No. 3 now. You could end the tournament at No. 2. Do you ever find yourself having to convince yourself that you're that good, or are you slowly believing it or do you already believe it?
 PETRA KVITOVA: Well, yes, sometimes I say it to myself, Okay, I'm 3. It's good. But it's like not that really special or something. 

 Q. You're already advanced to the semifinals, so in your next match, what's your strategy going in? I mean, for you, it doesn't matter the result really, so what's your strategy?
 PETRA KVITOVA: Well, actually I didn't think about this, so, I mean, of course the title I want to play my best. I mean, I will be fighting again. 

 Q. Obviously this tournament you get like 100,000 every match. Are you planning on buying anything special with your prize money?
 PETRA KVITOVA: No.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT