FEDCUP FINALS: CZECH REPUBLIC v RUSSIA
November 5, 2011
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 P. KVITOVA/M. Kirilenko
  6-2, 6-2 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Petra.   
  
  Q. It didn't look like you spent too much energy on the court today. I mean, still feel fresh for tomorrow? You have enough to do well tomorrow and possibly the doubles match tomorrow?  
 PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I mean, I spent energy, for sure. And I don't know. I mean, I spent energy, for sure, and I mean, these courts look like very easy, but it wasn't very easy, the match.  
 I mean, what did you ask for, for the doubles? I mean...  
  
  Q. You could play if they need you?  
 PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I can play, but I'm not doubles specialist. It would be really strange if I have to play tomorrow.  
 But it's the chance, it's the option, but I don't think so.   
  
  Q. (Through translation.) Fed Cup has such a format that sometimes you don't know whom you are going to play against the next day. Does it really matter for you whether you will be playing against Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova or any other player?  
 PETRA KVITOVA: Well, it's the thing, that you never know who you will play the next day, but I mean, you, the Russian team, has a great quality team.   
 I mean, it's really doesn't matter for me who I'm playing tomorrow. I just try my best, like always, and win the second or third point tomorrow.  
  
  Q. (Through translation.) You are the leader of the team. Do you feel any psychological pressure as a result?  
 PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I mean, it's always for the No. 1 in the team that they are feeling a little pressure that you can win some of the match of the Fed Cup, but I mean, we have a really strong team, and Lucie can win, also, every match what she is playing.   
 I won already, so now I'm not feeling the pressure on my back.   
  
  Q. (Through translation.) What was the key factor in your victory today? Could you clarify?  
 PETRA KVITOVA: Well, in the beginning it was the first serve, for sure, because from the baseline I didn't play well. I did some mistakes. So my serve was the key in the first games.   
 And then I was more confident from the baseline and played again my game. And my serve all match was great, so the serve was really important for me.   
  
  Q. (Through translation.) Judging by your results, you seem to have a predilection for -- you like better the fast courts. But people say at the Kremlin Cup and they had the same surface at the Kremlin Cup that this court is too slow. What are your feelings?  
 PETRA KVITOVA: I prefer faster surface, of course, but when I play Istanbul, it was really slower and I won. So, I mean, now I see that I can play on the slower surface, also.   
 And, yeah, this is not really, really fast surface, but it was really similar like Istanbul, so I didn't have to be like more play on this surface. I'm feeling okay.   
  
  Q. (Through translation.) Yesterday you said that you'd love to win this beautiful trophy, the Fed Cup, but what do you think is the nicest trophy of the three: the Istanbul cup you won, the Wimbledon trophy you won, or this one, the Fed Cup you want to win?  
 PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I mean, yeah, I have two already, but this is really different. It's with the team, and we are playing by the Czech Republic. So it's very different, and I can't compare this trophy with Wimbledon or Istanbul.   
 I mean, it's really different. It will be very nice if we win here and take, and we win this trophy.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT