TEB BNP PARIBAS WTA CHAMPIONSHIPS
October 30, 2011
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 P. KVITOVA/V. Azarenka
  7-5, 4-6, 6-3 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. What about your emotions after this match, and if you can compare this great victory with Wimbledon.   
 PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I'm still think happy, of course, about a little bit tired already. So, I mean, we will see how it is the celebration, but, I mean, I can't compare it with the Wimbledon. It's different, and they both are very, very great for me.  
  
  Q. Now maybe can you say that you're the player of the year?  
 PETRA KVITOVA: (Smiling.) I'm playing Fed Cup, so maybe after.   
 No, but I mean after the tournament, okay, I can say it. (Laughter.)  
  
  Q. So talk about your season and how you've come so far just in terms of your game and maturity, everything.   
 PETRA KVITOVA: You know, when I start the season I was 34, and I didn't expect that I will be sitting here as champion and I have Grand Slam already.  
 So, I mean, really it's unbelievable. It's really a big step for me, so, I mean, it's tough to say what I improved everything, so it's really hard to say only one big point.  
 But, I mean, it was really everything. It's important that I'm healthy, but it's great, for sure, and this is the important thing.  
  
  Q. Can you compare in some way the two 5-Love up you were up, with Stosur and today, and something stopped. Before you was flying away. Anybody can't touch you. And then what happened?  
 PETRA KVITOVA: I mean, Vika really fast, and she just go for the winners. She didn't have like nothing to lose in the set, so it's really tough to play.  
 I mean, in the 5-All, it was again fighting about every point. So, I mean, I didn't think that I played badly then or something like that. Maybe I was a little bit, I don't know, like didn't move well or something like that. But I mean, she played really, really good.  
  
  Q. You said just now you were No. 34 at the start of the year. Did you have a target at the start of the year where you would like to finish in the rankings, for example?  
 PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I never have a target in the season, so no.   
  
  Q. The No. 1 ranking for the next year, is that something you could be ready to claim early next year?  
 PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I'm not thinking like that. I mean, I have a great tournament after me and it's huge. So we will see how is everything going. So, I mean, now I will be probably 2, right? So we will see.  
  
  Q. You finished the season with this cup, and now you are in the No. 2 and you achieved this in the city. Is Istanbul gonna be special in your lifetime?  
 PETRA KVITOVA: Well, of course, it will be. It's unbelievable. It was my first Championships, and I won. So, I mean, really, it's maybe forever in my heart.  
  
  Q. You have won an awful lot of money this year, along with your titles. You've got some time after Fed Cup to maybe spend some of it. What's the plan?  
 PETRA KVITOVA: I don't have plan for the money. Really, it's the last thing what I'm thinking about is.   
  
  Q. You have achieved so much this year. Do you think that this success and becoming world No. 2 is going to change how you're viewed at home, take it up a step from having won a Grand Slam title?  
 PETRA KVITOVA: I think it was, after the Wimbledon, it was very big step in our country. And really, I don't know how is it going now when I come to home, but, I mean, it will be similar.  
  
  Q. Do you know if many people have been watching you here this week at home?  
 PETRA KVITOVA: I think so. (Smiling.)  
  
  Q. I know you still have the Fed Cup to play, but what will you do after that between then and the start of next season?  
 PETRA KVITOVA: Well, for sure I will have some days off, I don't know, two, three weeks, but I will stay at home, because I don't want to travel and see the plane.  
 So I will be at home, and maybe I am going to spa or somewhere. It will be nice three weeks off.  
  
  Q. What were the main steps of your season to your mind?  
 PETRA KVITOVA: I said already it's not only one big step, so it was everything together like fitness, mentally, and of course that I am healthy and I could play the whole season.  
  
  Q. Can you explain how important to you your coach has been this year and what he has helped you with, in particular?  
 PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I mean, they are already important for me and not only as coaches, but they are like my friends or family, I can say, because we are like together like all time when we traveling, so, I mean, it's a big thank you to them.   
  
  Q. You're No. 2 now, and No. 1 spot is really close, like 150 points or something like that. Is it going to be a big motivation, or do you think it would turn into like pressure starting the next season?  
 PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I said already I'm not thinking like that, so it's can be 100 points, but I don't know. I'm not focused on this place.  
  
  Q. Could I ask you about the noise you make after you win a point? Is that something you've always done, or is your coach...   
 PETRA KVITOVA: No, it's always this.   
  
  Q. Yeah? Have you ever tried to stop it?  
 PETRA KVITOVA: No.  
  
  Q. The Olympic Games next year in London, do you want to represent your country there?  
 PETRA KVITOVA: In Olympic Games?   
  
  Q. Yes.   
 PETRA KVITOVA: Of course.  
  
  Q. What will be your goal? I mean...   
 PETRA KVITOVA: I don't have a goal.   
  
  Q. How did you find the atmosphere in the tournament in Istanbul?  
 PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I mean, it was really great. I didn't expect the people. A lot of people came and watch us, and they support all the time. It really was -- I was still hearing my name, and it was very nice. The atmosphere was great.  
  
  Q. About the scream, which, I mean, I think is almost normal for me after so many screams we hear about Sharapova and the others. It's at the end of the shot, so looks like normal. But for you, what it means for you when you do that? Is it like your freedom, is it something you finish, is something you are happy? Why? How you can explain that?  
 PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I mean, you know, sometimes I need it because I have to say something at important point, and otherwise when I'm mentally a little bit done I have to be fighting again, and this is like -- I don't know. It's important for me, really.   
  
  Q. Do you have a feeling that you are something more, something different compared to the other players, I mean, something which can close every moment with a shot? Do you have this feeling or not?  
 PETRA KVITOVA: No.   
  
  Q. Obviously having won Wimbledon, having won here as well, does it give you sort of confidence and belief when you do go to the Australian Open in January that you can do okay there?  
 PETRA KVITOVA: Well, it's tough question for me, actually. I mean, okay, I am No. 2, and the next season will be different and I will be actually favorite maybe all the time, or we will see how is it going. But it will be -- I mean, it will be really, really strange for me. I didn't -- I mean, it will be something new again.  
  
  Q. How much do you think Vika's screams affect the game?  
 PETRA KVITOVA: One more, please?   
  
  Q. How much do you think Vika's screams affect the game?  
 PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I mean, she played really well, and we play similar game. So it's really, like really hard to play against her, because, I mean, really she has big two shots, big serve, everything, the moving, it's great.   
 I mean, maybe on my left hand and my serve was important for me and it was advantage in this game.   
  
  Q. Coming back to what you want to do when this is finished, this year, wonderful year is finished, what do you like to do exactly? I mean, going, traveling in some place you have seen this year? Going to beach? Going to mountains? Where?   
 PETRA KVITOVA: I will be at home and then fitness preparation in the mountain.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT