TEB BNP PARIBAS WTA CHAMPIONSHIPS
October 29, 2011
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 P. KVITOVA/S. Stosur
  5-7, 6-3, 6-3 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.  
  
  Q. What was the key to the match in your opinion?  
 PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I mean, it was very tough to break her, because she has a big serve. I had problem in the return. When I broke her, it was about my serve. Actually, it wasn't really good, so, I mean, I have to be focused on the return of serve, and then, I mean, we played very well. It was great match for us.   
 I'm really tired now, so -- yeah. It was okay.   
  
  Q. In the first set you were up, and then you're leading 40-Love and there was an exchange at the net and you missed a very easy two backhand in the net. Did something shift? Momentum? Did you lose your focus after that?  
 PETRA KVITOVA: It's can be, you know. It's one point and it's can be like the really point, and maybe it was this, but I don't think like it was really important point because I had her 40-Love, and then I had 40-15 and then mistake again, so it was really mentally.  
  
  Q. A lot of your wins this year have been with you hitting lots of winners and playing so well. Is it in some ways more satisfying to win like this, kind of a more ugly, grittier victory?  
 PETRA KVITOVA: I didn't understand. Sorry.   
  
  Q. Is it more satisfying for you to win a tighter, harder match like this rather than controlling everything as you have done all year?  
 PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I mean, it's very important to have like this close match in the tournament, and it was yesterday and today again. I mean, you need a match like this in the tournament, so...   
  
  Q. To have so much power and to have so many weapons could be a problem for yourself mentally, because you always know you can come back in a match, you have always a chance and you have to work on this, do you think, first of all?  
 PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I mean, I have to play only my game. I don't know the different like only moving on the baseline and just playing and rallies or something like that.  
 So I have to go for the winners. It's only one way for me probably.  
  
  Q. What do you think you have to improve, in the defense maybe or what? I mean, which do you think could be the most improvement for you? You know, we talk about you becoming No. 2 in the world. No. 3 is already very good. But what do you think is the most improvement you have to do? Is it physically, mentally, on defense?  
 PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I not think so that I have to improve defense. For sure I have to improve my fitness and mentally, but, I mean, I have to improve my game what is going for the winners and be focused and everything like this. So I think so, this.  
  
  Q. How tight were you closing the match out? 5-Love, everything seemed straightforward, and then back she came again to 5-3. Did you tighten up a little bit?  
 PETRA KVITOVA: So, I mean, she had the change only play like going for the winners and everything. She played really fast from both side, and it was really tough to moving there and catching the ball.  
 I mean, she played really well these three games, and I know that I have to keep my serve, because it was only this key.  
  
  Q. In women's tennis, many players prefer to play from baseline, but you like too much to approach to the net. Is it possible to say that this difference make special success for players?  
 PETRA KVITOVA: Everybody has some game, and when I'm playing really fast, I have to go for the net for the winners volley. So it's really tough to have some winners against somebody who is moving very well.  
 So sometimes I have to play like this, and of course that I'm going to the net sometimes really confused and just trying.   
 So, I mean, we are still practicing for this with the coach.  
  
  Q. Who do you prefer to play against tomorrow?  
 PETRA KVITOVA: Doesn't matter for me.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about the two opponents that you might play?  
 PETRA KVITOVA: So we played with Vera already in the group, so, I mean, it will be very strange if we will be playing the final. So, you know, the match, what was it.   
 And against Vika we played two times this year already. I won both, so hopefully it will be better for me, mentally. So we know each other very well, with both players.   
  
  Q. You said you think you need to work on your fitness. Is that something you will concentrate on in the offseason? And I wonder what aspect of your fitness particularly do you think you need to work on?  
 PETRA KVITOVA: Well, for this question you have to ask my fitness coach. (Smiling.)  
 I mean, it's not only this thing what I have to improve in the offseason, so for sure I will going to mountains somewhere and there have a preparation, and then we start with the tennis.   
 So I have to improve the both sides. It's not easy to be concentrating only on the one thing.  
  
  Q. So I wonder, for example, would it be speed work, movement, or what particularly?  
 PETRA KVITOVA: Really, you have to ask my coach. (Smiling.)  
  
  Q. When you think about volley, do you think of something you have to do, you will do, or you like to do?  
 PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I mean, I can play volley, so it's improving my game, so, I mean, it's good key for the matches like this. Yeah.   
  
  Q. When you see yourself in the next two years, you see yourself someone who's going more on the net or not?  
 PETRA KVITOVA: Hopefully, yes.  
  
  Q. Possible two victories in next week for you, the WTA championship and the Fed Cup title. It is dream of the end of the season for you?  
 PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I mean, it's everything. It's future. You can ask me after the Fed Cup final.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT