WIMBLEDON
July 2, 2011
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







P. KVITOVA/M. Sharapova
  6-3, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, Petra Kvitova, Wimbledon champion. 

 Q. Can you tell us something about Fulnek? What do people do there? Are they farmers? What is it like? 
 PETRA KVITOVA: Well, they have four tennis courts. I read in the newspaper or on the Internet they had some big television in the center and they watch me, so I don't know how is going there now. 

 Q. How would you describe what you did today and how you pressed the game against Sharapova?
 PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I knew that I have to be first who is playing hard and who is made the points. So I tried it. Yeah, I did it. 
 But sometimes my serve wasn't so good, so I have to keep mentally good. 

 Q. Your father seemed to enjoy it. Does he always get that excited watching you?
 PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I think so. He's still crying. I think he's crying now after every match (smiling). 

 Q. Tell us your feelings at the moment, being a Wimbledon champion. 
 PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I'm still -- I don't know about this still. It's still unbelievable feeling. Maybe I'll accept it after, I don't know, some days. 

 Q. Today we feel almost a star is born. Are there many Grand Slams coming your way?
 PETRA KVITOVA: You think? Yeah, okay. 

 Q. You looked very quiet and concentrated in this final. How did you prepare for this match yesterday and this morning?
 PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I was like before the normal match. We spoke with the coaches that I'm playing today fourth round. 
 So, yeah, I was surprised how I was feeling on the court because I was focused only on the point and on the game and not on the final and the medal. 
 So I'm so happy for that.

 Q. Can you tell us what your plan was going in, what you wanted to do to her, how you wanted to serve to her, go forehand, backhand?
 PETRA KVITOVA: It was about the serve, for sure, and the return. I know that she's return very well, but I know that I can return her serve also. I knew that she make some double-fault. 
 So I was preparing for the fast play like with Azarenka. I don't think so that she has some shot worse or something, so it was just rallies. 

 Q. It looked like you went to the body quite a bit with the serve. Is that accurate?
 PETRA KVITOVA: Well, yeah. It's could be. 

 Q. Did you win today for yourself, for your country, for your family, or for everything?
 PETRA KVITOVA: For everything. No, it's tough to say. It's amazing. 

 Q. Quite a difference between last year in the semis and this year. 
 PETRA KVITOVA: Well, the last year was like I hadn't many chances to win. Serena played so well. Yeah, I was young and I didn't think that I can beat her. 
 So what is different, because today I felt that I can. 

 Q. Have you spoken to Martina or Jana yet?
 PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, of course I spoke with them. They were so happy. I cried after I met them. 

 Q. It meant a lot to you to meet them after the final?
 PETRA KVITOVA: Yes.

 Q. Your match point, you're 78 feet away from her, looking down at her, what are you thinking? Jeez, I'm going to be champion? I better not double-fault? 
 PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I start to say, because I thought before the game when I was serving that I have to do it now, and I'm doing. And then when I had 40-Love, it was like -- I don't know, I was just going for the point, and I believe myself. 
 But nothing -- I don't know. I did not think that I had match ball.

 Q. What was that feeling when that ace was complete?
 PETRA KVITOVA: It was unbelievable feeling, for sure. So I was so happy. I don't know. It's strange. 

 Q. Did you sleep well last night? Were you nervous?
 PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, I slept well. It was okay. 

 Q. Did your father sleep well?
 PETRA KVITOVA: My father slept well? Well, they travel a lot, so I don't know if they slept well. 

 Q. You're only the third female champion at Wimbledon who is left-handed. Can you give us your thoughts about that. Does it give you a huge advantage to be a left-hander?
 PETRA KVITOVA: Well, if we are only three, I don't know if it's advantage. (Laughing.) But I think with the serve it's advantage, but after -- the serve is advantage little bit. 

 Q. It's an advantage purely in the serve or the slice?
 PETRA KVITOVA: Well, yeah, I mean the rotation is different way, so probably. 

 Q. How will you celebrate? Is there any treat you want to buy yourself with the prize money?
 PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I don't know yet. I did not think about this, so I don't know.

 Q. How long will you celebrate for?
 PETRA KVITOVA: We will see. We have days off. 

 Q. Will you go home?
 PETRA KVITOVA: Yes, on Monday. 

 Q. Are you ready for the Wimbledon ball, the dress, the makeup?
 PETRA KVITOVA: No. It will be tomorrow.

 Q. Will you be dancing a lot?
 PETRA KVITOVA: Dancing? Sorry, I can't dancing. 
 THE MODERATOR: We don't dance anymore. A smart dinner, but no dancing. 

 Q. What sort of reception do you expect when you go back home? 
 PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I don't know. I don't think about this. I'm looking forward I see them, for sure.

 Q. I'm sure they'll be pleased to see you. 
 PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah. Probably, yes. 

 Q. Will you be watching the men's final, and who will you support tomorrow?
 PETRA KVITOVA: I don't know if I will watch it. I don't have a favorite there.

 Q. What do you expect from that match?
 PETRA KVITOVA: I think it will be open match, 50/50. 

 Q. What do you think were the biggest reasons that you won today?
 PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I think that in the important points I played well and I did it. I made important points. I returned very well, so it could be. 

 Q. How much of your success today do you think was about your mental stability on the big points and throughout, even though you're much younger than your opponent - three years - and you don't have as much experience in these big matches?
 PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, I knew it, but still I like the final and I like the big matches. The last year I had experiences from the semifinal; this year I played well the semifinal. 
 So I believed that I could play on the finals very good, and I played. 

 Q. What do you want to do to improve your game?
 PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I think it's still everything. Learning fitness, my serve. We have a lot of work. 

 Q. We saw a lot of people in your box, father, friends, brothers. There was also boyfriend? 
 PETRA KVITOVA: No. He's at home. 

 Q. What is he doing?
 PETRA KVITOVA: I don't know. You have to ask him. 

 Q. Your game suits all kinds of surfaces. You can win on clay, hard court, grass. This is your first Grand Slam, but not the last, or how do you see this?
 PETRA KVITOVA: Well, hopefully not last. Of course I try play everything. Yeah, my game was improve. Yeah, it's good that I can play on all surfaces. We will see in the future. 

 Q. What does your father do, and your family?
 PETRA KVITOVA: He was teacher, and now he's -- you know when there is small town there is some boss, a small town. 

 Q. The mayor. 
 PETRA KVITOVA: But he is the second one. He is under the boss (laughter). 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT