TEB BNP PARIBAS WTA CHAMPIONSHIPS
October 25, 2011
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 P. KVITOVA/V. Zvonareva
  6-2, 6-4 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Petra, please.   
  
  Q. Vera said you basically outplayed her today. Do you feel the same way, even though you had that little sort of hiccup in the second set?   
 PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I mean, yeah, we started -- I mean, both were very nervous, and it was strange when we didn't won the serve game.  
 So, I mean, yeah, I played what I had to play, I mean, going to the net and everything. And in the second set, you know, I have 4-1, and Vera just go for it and just play the best, and go for the winners really tough for me.  
 And actually, I get a little bit nervous again, and it was tough for me, because I couldn't move and everything. So yeah.   
  
  Q. Clearly you like playing indoors. What is it about indoor conditions that you think are good for your game?  
 PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I mean, this surface is very well for my serve because it's more spin, and actually, I don't know, but if I am indoor it's like -- it's different feeling.   
 I mean, it's like I can play my fast shots and everything, and I don't have to play with spin. I have to be -- I don't have to be prepared for the wind or sun or anything.  
  
  Q. How crucial was it to break her in the second set 4-All? Because she was gaining a little bit of momentum, breaking you twice. And last time you guys played in Tokyo, she managed to come back from 5-1 down, and she won the first set and then you know the scoreline.   
 PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah. Of course, I knew it when I played this 4-1. I mean, I had to play something and fighting about every point, because what was important, and, I mean, in the 4-All, you never know.  
 So I had to like moving well and just play my game again and going for the net and be aggressive than before.   
  
  Q. Obviously you're Wimbledon champion, but at the same time you seem to talk quite a bit about getting nervous during times, and on court you said you were nervous before today's match and then you were nervous during the match. I mean, can you talk about that a little bit, about why you're getting so nervous in these moments?  
 PETRA KVITOVA: Well, actually, I mean, I was nervous because it was my first match and in my first Championship, so it's easy answer.  
  
  Q. You probably don't play many round robins, so as you go into the next part of this, how are you approaching this part of the tournament, the round robin?  
 PETRA KVITOVA: Well, actually, we are practicing a lot for this, the approaching to the net. So, I mean, I played it in Wimbledon and I tried to play on the other surface.   
 So, I mean, I have to play like this because from the baseline it's very tough to make some winners or beat some good players as Vera when she's moving very well.  
  
  Q. How is it to play the first round where you're playing someone who is in the top 10? It's not usual when you come to a tournament, right? Maybe that's why you were nervous.   
 PETRA KVITOVA: Maybe it can be. (Laughter.)  
  
  Q. Similar point, which is that do you feel at this time last year you were ranked sort of in the top 30 and now you're the world No. 3 and people were expecting you to win today. Do you feel the pressure?  
 PETRA KVITOVA: I didn't, because I did not think that I'm favorite in this match because I lost in the last time.  
 So, I mean, it was opening match like 50/50. I wasn't nervous because I'm favorite or something like that. So, I mean, I was nervous because I play my first match here.  
  
  Q. What do you think about the group? Because the next two opponents of you kind of similar to Vera. They are both counter-punchers like in your group, Vera, Agnieszka and Caroline, but you are the one, big hitter. What do you think about group?  
 PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I mean, yeah, they are playing similar, and still I have -- I will have to play my game during the aggressive game and go for the winners and go for the net again, because how you said already, Caroline and Agnieszka is playing, they're moving very well, and I have to go like this.   
  
  Q. Obviously Caroline is the world No. 1 and you're a Grand Slam champion. You're the same age. People want to pit you against each other. Is that the case off court? Are you friendly with her off court?  
 PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, I don't have a problem with Caroline, and we still talking about something, and, I mean, we are very good friends. She played Prostejov with us and the team, so she's very nice and friendly.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT