CHINA OPEN
October 2, 2011
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. (Through translation.) Two questions. First, this summer you had a very good, great performance on grass court. In Eastbourne you reach the final and you have become Wimbledon champion. But this summer in the North American hard court, seems your performance is not as good as you did on grass court. How have you made adjustment? And second question, you have come to the China Open for the first time. What is your expectation?  
 PETRA KVITOVA: So for the first question, I mean, after Wimbledon I had some weeks off and I didn't practice. I mean, I work on my fitness and then I start with the practice on the hard court in Prostejov in the Czech Republic.   
 I mean, it's a little bit different play on the hard court after the grass. I mean, the tactics and techniques that are different, so, I mean, I need some time to be on the court and play my game again.   
 So, I mean, the US Open and tournament before, it was no good for me for sure. But I have problem with my asthma and I couldn't breathe in this weather. With the humidity in the USA, it's always tough for me to play there.  
 After US Open it was like again some days off, and then go back to Tokyo. There I felt okay and I played my game finally there, so hopefully it will be continue here.   
 And the second question was what?   
  
  Q. This is the first time coming to China to play the China Open. What's your expectation?  
 PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I played here last year. I lost in the third round against Caroline when she was first in the world. So I have a nice memories for this tournament, and hopefully I will play my best game here. We will see where I will finish.   
  
  Q. (Through translation.) The second question is this is your first time you have reached the world Championships. I mistranslated. Sorry. What do you think?  
 PETRA KVITOVA: The Championships in Istanbul?   
  
  Q. Yes.   
 PETRA KVITOVA: It's for me so nice play there. It's first time for me. It will be so nice play Championships in Istanbul and then the final of the Fed Cup. It's a great tournament there, great events in the end of the season. You know, you never know how it's going on the Championships, so we will see.  
  
  Q. (Through translation.) My question is, you have become the first Grand Slam titleist who was born in the 1990s. Your style of game is very offensive. What else would you do to carry the flag for the young players of the 1990s generation?   
 PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I mean, yeah, it's some young players in the top already, I mean, with Azarenka and Caroline.  
 I don't know, but we don't have like one player who be beat everybody all the time. Everybody can beat everybody, so, I mean, the game is very open.   
  
  Q. You beat Maria Sharapova in Wimbledon and it was very impressive. People say you have everything it takes to be the future world No. 1. What do you think about this?   
 PETRA KVITOVA: I do not think about this, that I can be No. 1. I just want to improve my game, each part of my game. I have to improve everything, and then we can see where I will be.  
 But, I mean, No. 1, it can be, I mean, many players.   
  
  Q. A lot of players struggling after they win their first Grand Slam. Li Na has a problem after the French Open, and Samantha Stosur lost last week in Tokyo the first round after winning the US Open. How are you going to be thinking about this after winning the first major? You'll be having a lot of pressure and people give you a lot of hype. How can you handle all those things and do it well and make sure that you can still have precision?  
 PETRA KVITOVA: I mean, it's very tough to be concentrate on the next matches, because you never be preparation for win Grand Slam and what will be after the Grand Slam when you won.  
 So for us, it's tough to play, because, I mean, everybody knows that we can like win every tournament what we play. So, I mean, it's tough for us to be still on the court and play like before.   
 But I mean, to win Grand Slams is something special, and, yeah, we have to fighting with this for sure.   
  
  Q. Last year in China Open you lost to Wozniacki, and then she took the first place. This time you come to China again with your Wimbledon championship. You got the Grand Slam earlier than her. Some people think that you and her will be the outstanding players in the next ten years or five years. You and her are different type of players. I just want to know how can you deal with the relationship with Wozniacki? Thank you.   
 PETRA KVITOVA: I mean, with Caroline, we are very good friends, I can say, because she's so nice and we can talk always when we meet each other. So, I mean, of course on the court it's different. We can beat the other one.   
 But, I mean, yeah, somebody said that she didn't win the Grand Slam, but she can and she will for sure, I think. I think she needs some time.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT