WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 18, 2011
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. PETKOVIC/P. Kvitova
  6-3, 6-3 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Looked like you weren't 100% out there today. Talk about what was wrong.   
 PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I mean, we played in Toronto, so, yeah, I remember something from the match. We know each other very well and she played good.   
 Yeah, again, I played badly and I made many mistakes. She played well. In the second set I was a little bit dizzy and I had a cramping in the stomach.  
 But, still, I probably was a little bit tired and something. I don't know what's wrong.   
  
  Q. Was it heat exhaustion or something like that?   
 PETRA KVITOVA: I don't think so. It was not too warm outside. It was my stomach. I don't have to ask.   
  
  Q. Based on your performance here, what are you going to work on on the practice court before the US Open?  
 PETRA KVITOVA: I mean, still I have bad timing for the hard court and I didn't have some small steps before the shots. Sometimes my serve is like up and down. It's also right before the US Open, so I have a week off now. Hopefully it'll be better.   
  
  Q. Do you remember that match you played against Safina at the US Open?   
 PETRA KVITOVA: Yes, I remember.   
  
  Q. Talk about what your mindset was going into the tournament then, playing the No. 1, and how it'll be different this time?  
 PETRA KVITOVA: It'll be different as Wimbledon, for example. The US Open, it's on the hardcourts, of course, and, yeah, I'm looking forward for the matches. Hopefully it'll be better than here and in Toronto.  
 Hopefully I play my best, or I tried.   
  
  Q. Is there a different feeling playing a Grand Slam event?   
 PETRA KVITOVA: Well, for me, yes. I like the Grand Slams, and I try my best always when I play there. I like the matches on the Grand Slams.   
  
  Q. Just how different does it feel? I think when you beat Safina you were close to No. 81 in the world, somewhere around there. Now you're in the top 10 and a defending Grand Slam champion. How does that sort of change your outlook going into the US Open, knowing there is sort of more of a target on your back?  
 PETRA KVITOVA: We are lots of players who can win the Grand Slam; it's not only me. So it's not like big pressure on my back or something. It's similar like before the Wimbledon or before the French. Of course I won a Grand Slam so it's going to be more, but it's not in my head.   
  
  Q. How do you think you've improved during that time?   
 PETRA KVITOVA: When I won against Safina?   
  
  Q. Yeah.   
 PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I mean, in every part of the game.   
  
  Q. Just talk a little bit about that specifically.   
 PETRA KVITOVA: Well, so I practice tactics for sure for the mentally, and, well, my standards are a little bit higher than before. Before I can lose with everybody and I can win with everybody. So the standard is a little bit higher.  
  
  Q. In your earlier match you took a couple of coaching timeouts. How come you didn't take any today?  
 PETRA KVITOVA: Today?   
  
  Q. Yeah.   
 PETRA KVITOVA: Good question. (Laughter.) I didn't want.   
  
  Q. Actually on that note, you're one of the only players who is young enough to have come up in the WTA Tour during a time when there has always been on-court coaching allowed. You're the only one that's been able to win a Grand Slam, a tournament where it's not allowed. Do you think there is a big difference of having that available and not available?  
 PETRA KVITOVA: I mean, somebody needs help, the coaching for somebody, doesn't matter. I don't care actually.   
  
  Q. What's your plan between now and New York? Where are you going to train?  
 PETRA KVITOVA: We are going to New York for preoperation. I will be there a week before the US Open and we will practice there.   
  
  Q. Did you have any emotional letdown or mental fatigue after Wimbledon?   
 PETRA KVITOVA: No, I mean, after Wimbledon I knew that I have to be still focus on the game and practice a lot before, because I have US Open and final of the Fed Cup and many important matches.  
 So, yes.   
  
  Q. You're doing a lot more of these pressers in the bigger rooms and everything. How are you enjoying them so far?  
 PETRA KVITOVA: After when I lost it's not too good. (Laughter.)  
  
  Q. Does the winning Wimbledon change anything when you go on the court now?   
 PETRA KVITOVA: No. I don't feel anything, no.   
  
  Q. Has it changed your schedule between matches or during a tournament or anything as far as...  
 PETRA KVITOVA: No. We try still doing the same like before.   
  
  Q. You look really pretty in the Strong is Beautiful ad. How did you enjoy doing those?  
 PETRA KVITOVA: Thank you. It was nice. Actually, for me it was my first photo shooting, or the big photo shooting, so I enjoy it a lot. I think the photos from there, it's so nice.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT