DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS WOMEN
February 15, 2011
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. MORITA/P. Kvitova
  7-6, 7-6

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Your reaction to the result, Petra, coming just a few days after arguably the biggest result and achievement of your career? How do you feel about your title today?
 PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, I'm still happy about it, of course. But today unfortunately I lost. But, yeah, the title was the I think big moment in my career. Hopefully not last. 

 Q. What went wrong today, would you say? Did she not let you get away?
 PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I think it was everything was bad for me. So, no, I was tired and I felt everything -- I couldn't serve too much because I'm feeling the muscle in the stomach.
 Yeah, I was slowly and tired, so it was tough to play. 

 Q. So you've got sort of an arm injury and a stomach muscle problem, is that what you're saying? You're injured effectively?
 PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I had a pill so I didn't feel after some games. So I'm a little bit injured but it's nothing.

 Q. This is probably just the result from Paris?
 PETRA KVITOVA: Yes, I think so. It started there, so...

 Q. I mean, maybe if you could break down the two -- they were both painful. You said the serve. I mean, when you look at both sets, I mean, what were some of the key moments? What was she doing good and what were some things that you weren't doing that were so well? What were the key points in each set that you felt? Because it could have gone your way. 
 PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I had 5-4 in the second set, and I didn't make it. I had a serve, and I think the game was key for all match. So I lost my serve. Yeah. 

 Q. Daniela Hantuchova also lost today having come off Pattaya, having won in Pattaya. I mean, is it difficult to have gone deep in one tournament and then -- I mean, you can't have had much preparation for this. You beat Kim on Sunday; is that correct? 
 PETRA KVITOVA: Uh-huh.

 Q. So you can't have come in feeling terribly fresh. 
 PETRA KVITOVA: I met Daniela after her match, and she said, I'm so tired. I didn't know what's going on on the court. Yeah, it was same with me. 
 Yeah, it's tough if you are playing indoor for me, for example, and I arrive Monday morning and here it's outside and windy and sunny. 
 So, yeah, it was not good preparation. 

 Q. Obviously it was a big victory for you. Is it a little bit of -- after you have such a big victory, is there a little bit of a letdown when you come here, you're still thinking about your victory, or what do you think?
 PETRA KVITOVA: No, I don't think so, because was it also the same in Brisbane and then I played Melbourne normally. So I don't think it was in the head still the victory.

 Q. You mentioned the key in the second set. How about the first set? What happened there? 
 PETRA KVITOVA: Well, yeah, we held the serve, and it was just one early breaks. Well, if it's windy and I cannot move well, it's tough to play to court for me, and I made many mistakes, so...
 It's tough to say what was the.

 Q. You had this big victory and then you have this loss. When you leave here, what do you learn from this, or is there anything to learn from this loss today? 
 PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I think I have to forgot for this match, because it was -- I didn't was 100%, so I... 

 Q. You're saying you weren't 100%? 
 PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, it wasn't. So I just to have forgot, and I think it will be okay. 

 Q. From a spectators' point of view, people follow the WTA Tour, the women's game, and they want to see the in-form players arrive at tournaments and perform to their capabilities. You weren't able to this week, neither was Daniela. That must be disappointing for you, I would imagine. I mean, do you think the schedule is an issue for you? Is this an example that maybe there's too many tournaments too close together?
 THE MODERATOR: They don't to have play every single week. It's up to the players, what they choose.

 Q. Yeah. But the question is: Do you think there's too -- because obviously there's pressure on you to play ever week to get points and all that. 
 PETRA KVITOVA: Well, it's up to us, so I could chose that I'm not playing here for sure. But I played, so...







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT