ROGERS CUP WOMEN
August 11, 2011
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. PETKOVIC/P. Kvitova
  6-1, 6-2 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Just wondering if you felt any rust at all, this being your first tournament back since Wimbledon.   
 PETRA KVITOVA: Well, yesterday was a bad match for me after the one month, and I didn't play well. But today it was windy again like it was yesterday, and my game wasn't so good. I did many, many mistakes on the forehand.   
 Hopefully next time it will be better.   
  
  Q. Do you feel any different since the Wimbledon win, like maybe players view you differently or do you view yourself a little differently?  
 PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I feel only I was seeded top 8, so I had bye first round. Nothing in round -- it's a tough draw here. Everybody's playing here, and I don't play so well during my match. Hopefully in Cincinnati it will definitely be better for me.   
  
  Q. You mentioned the wind. What kind of issues and what kind of problems was it causing you?  
 PETRA KVITOVA: Well, for me was a problem for sure for today, because I didn't have the timing for the shot, and this was worst for me, the wind, for sure. But I played Eastbourne and there it was so badly than here. So it's for both of us.   
  
  Q. How did you spend the time after Wimbledon? Did you just take off tennis altogether or were you just practicing?  
 PETRA KVITOVA: I went at home after Wimbledon for two weeks, and I had it off, for sure.   
 But I was traveling around Czech, and I had some interviews and something around. Then I had fitness preparation in the mountains in Slovak, and after that I played 12 days, 14 days tennis.  
 So I'm ready for the tournament, but I have to play more matches.  
  
  Q. Even though you lost today, do you still take some positives and do you feel like it's nice to get back into the swing of things now that you're competing again?  
 PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, I'm okay. I'm not too sad. Yeah, of course I lost. I won only three games.   
 But I'm okay, and I know that it's preparation for the US Open. Still, I have to work.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT