WIMBLEDON
July 1, 2010
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. WILLIAMS/P. Kvitova
  7-6, 6-2

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. How tough was Serena, especially in that second set? Why did it change so much? Were you as nervous as you thought you might be or not as much? 
 PETRA KVITOVA: So I didn't was nervous too much. I just was at the beginning. Serena plays very well. I don't think so I didn't play bad. 
 So I think was very great match for me. It was just close in the first set. At the second, two breaks. So, yeah, I think so it was good match. 
 I believe that next time it will be better for me (smiling). 

 Q. Serena had 31 winning serves. How tough was it to handle this serve?
 PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, of course she has the big serve, the faster on the tour. So it's very tough if it's new balls. 
 Yeah, I couldn't return. So, yeah, she has a great serve. 

 Q. What did you learn about yourself these last two weeks? Must be a lot of confidence inside. 
 PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, of course. I get a little bit confident. I happy that I was in the semifinal in the Wimbledon. I will try be better. 

 Q. Do you like grass a little more now than you used to?
 PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, of course (laughter). 

 Q. Are you going to watch tomorrow Tomas' semifinal?
 PETRA KVITOVA: We will see. We are here parents, so maybe we will watch Tomas. But maybe we go invited to see city. I don't know it. 

 Q. But I suppose you are rooting for Tomas. 
 PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah. If we'll have time, maybe we'll go see.

 Q. Do you think he can do what you cannot do today: win? Do you think he can win tomorrow? 
 PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, of course he can win. I know he play very well now, so I believe that he can win the semifinal. 

 Q. Do you take anything else out of this match today from a standpoint of knowing that you've gotten this far and maybe down the road you can do better, and as good as Serena played, especially in the second set?
 PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, of course we have I think a good rally. Yeah, I don't know. I will try, but it's very tough, tough road. 

 Q. This gives you a lot of opportunities on the WTA Tour. You're playing in Copenhagen in one month. You'll be one of the seeded players. What do you think about the chances this gives you in the next couple of months, especially in Copenhagen? 
 PETRA KVITOVA: So I am looking forward for Copenhagen because in the hall indoors, so I like it. Yeah, it's very good if I will seeded. I hope so I can be seeded on the US Open. I will try be. 
 But, yeah, it's very good. I hope that I can be improve more up. 

 Q. You fought really well in the first set. At what point of the game did you feel you could actually win the match? Did you feel like that? 
 PETRA KVITOVA: So it was very nice when I got the break. But I thought it's not the end because Serena has very good return. I didn't thinking about it I can win. 
 So I just tried each point, and then we will see. But not. 

 Q. Would you mind telling us how you see the final developing. Is it Serena's to take? 
 PETRA KVITOVA: So Serena play very well today. But I think the Serena has many experiences. I think that Serena win here. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT