WIMBLEDON
June 29, 2010
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







P. KVITOVA/K. Kanepi
  4-6, 7-6, 8-6

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. How did you feel when you had those matchpoints against you? Did you ever stop believing, or did you always think you'll get through the next point and carry on?
 PETRA KVITOVA: So in fact I didn't thinking about she have the match point. So it was just -- I just thinking about what I can play in this ball. Yeah, it's enough. 

 Q. You've never won a tour match on grass before this tournament. Now you're in the semifinals. Did you practice much on grass before coming here, or did you just think, Grass, it's only a couple of weeks, we'll get on hard courts and my season can continue?
 PETRA KVITOVA: So, I was playing in the 's-Hertogenbosch. It was just one week on the grass before the coming here. 
 Now here, I don't know, I just try my best tennis play and I'm in semifinals. What is dream? I don't believe now. So, yeah. 

 Q. Was there a point during the match where you thought she was just playing too well, she was going to win, you had no chance?
 PETRA KVITOVA: Of course I did. So I thought about it, I can lose and I go home and something. 
 But when I was in the match, I was trying not thinking about it and just be positive. 

 Q. Can you talk about the tiebreaker. She had three match points. You fought them off. Then you get into the third set where maybe you should have momentum, and all of a sudden it's 4-0 for her. Can you talk about what you were thinking then?
 PETRA KVITOVA: So, yeah, I don't know what's happening. So the tiebreak was very, very close. At the beginning of the third set, I was so tired like in the head and also the physical. I was really down. 
 And then if I was break her, it was just a new game, and just try the each point to win. So, but, I don't know what I can tell. 

 Q. When did you realize you had a great chance to win? Was it at the game where she served for the match and maybe got nervous? 
 PETRA KVITOVA: So I was 5-2 down. I just knew that she can make some mistakes and it's my chance. So, yeah, it was just the break her. And then I got my serve. It was very close about the thinking I can win. So, yeah. 

 Q. You had such a comfortable win in the previous round against a much higher-ranked opponent. Did that drain you emotionally for the start of this game?
 PETRA KVITOVA: So, yeah, it was just one game in the first set. So it was just my serve. At the beginning, it was very nervous from myself. So, yeah. 

 Q. You were struggling on your service a lot. 
 PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, unfortunately I played very bad my serve today. But without serve I won, so I don't believe also this. 
 Yeah, but, I was just try to playing and not thinking about my service because there was many double-faults, yeah. 

 Q. When you beat Azarenka 6-0 in the second set, she said, I think Petra, that girl, played the best tennis of her life. Do you feel like you can play that kind of level all the time?
 PETRA KVITOVA: So, yeah, I think so. I play now very well, my best tennis in my life, my career. But it's very, very hard to stay on this level. So I have to be focused for each match, for each point. 
 Yeah, we will see what will be in the future. 

 Q. The future is against Serena, who has won 12 Grand Slam titles. She has a lot of experience. She's very good on grass. How do you go into that match and play your best and not get so nervous playing on the big court against her?
 PETRA KVITOVA: So, yeah, she is very good player, and she won here I don't know how many times. I lost against her in the Australian Open. So it was very quick. 
 But, yeah, I'm not favorite, so I can play just my game and just play and enjoy. So we will see. 

 Q. Do you think you can win the tournament here? Do you think you can be Wimbledon champion?
 PETRA KVITOVA: No, I don't think. I don't think so, no (laughter.)

 Q. Why not?
 PETRA KVITOVA: So maybe it's two matches. But, yeah, maybe I can lose in the Serena. I don't know what I can tell. I don't think so, yeah. 

 Q. Had you sought any advice from the last left-handed Czech to win at Wimbledon, Martina?
 PETRA KVITOVA: Martina? Yeah, I met her now and she congrats to me, so it's nice from her.

 Q. Has she spoken to you throughout your career?
 PETRA KVITOVA: So, yeah, of course she's nice. I know it. 

 Q. Has she given you advice over the last few years?
 PETRA KVITOVA: No, no. 

 Q. Did you meet her today or yesterday?
 PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, after the match. 

 Q. So she said, You have to serve and volley all the time? 
 PETRA KVITOVA: No, no (laughter.) No, unfortunately, no.

 Q. Has Jana Novotna given you advice recently or over the years?
 PETRA KVITOVA: No. Nothing. 

 Q. Is Martina Navratilova a big hero for you?
 PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah. She is legends. Yeah, it was my idol when I was small children. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT