US OPEN
August 29, 2019
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. PETKOVIC/P. Kvitova
6-4, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. She's obviously a tough opponent. She's played you tough in the past. Can you give us your thoughts on meeting her this early in the tournament and the results?
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, we played many matches, as you mentioned. It was quite even.
Yeah, I think that she likes my game, to be honest a bit. She played great. She moved pretty well, as well.
Yeah, I had my chances, of course, but I was always missing, you know, a little bit of the last things. I was break up in the second, and I should make it. But, yeah, overall I don't think I really played that bad. That's how it is.
I think I missed some matches, as well. I was really trying hard. I was fighting. There was only one thing which was still there, so I'm proud of it.
Yeah, of course I'm pretty disappointing about the loss, but I going to try to stay healthy. That's the main thing.
Q. How do you reflect on your year, the Grand Slams, overall?
PETRA KVITOVA: Overall I'm pretty happy, for sure. I had to withdraw from the French Open, which wasn't really nice thing but that's happened in the tennis career, so I'm taking it.
Well, I reached the final of the Australian Open, definitely the highlight of it. I could miss Wimbledon but I was able to play and reached good result over there. Overall, I think it was okay.
Q. Looking ahead to Asia, you have had some success there in the past. How will you schedule to kind of stay healthy but also maybe maximize...
PETRA KVITOVA: It's pretty difficult to look to Asia right now. Yeah, you're right. I do have great results over there. So I going to try my best to play there, of course. Everything is based on my forearm, how that will look like.
Yeah, if I go, definitely I going to try my best, as always.
Q. Did you get any sense over the summer, did you feel you came back too early, that you needed a few more weeks with the forearm to rest it? Did you feel this was the correct timing for you health-wise?
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, it's a good question, actually. Maybe I should take one more week before Wimby, but that's mean I going to skip Wimby, which, you know, on the mental side would be much more tougher, I think. Maybe the arm would be much better right now, but -- you know, I didn't feel any pain. It just getting swollen, which means something is there but I don't know what is there.
Yeah, when I look back maybe, but that's the question (smiling).
Q. Just in terms of playing Andrea and her ability to absorb your pace, seemed like it was difficult to get through her today.
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I already answered it, but for you I can answer it again. No, I mean, I just said that she really played good game. I don't think I played that badly. I did have my chances, for sure, but somehow I just couldn't make it. I think I just missed, you know, the end of the things. Just a little bit over there. That's the tennis. So it's about the few points which she took it on her side today.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT