CHINA OPEN
October 4, 2019
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. BARTY/P. Kvitova   
4-6, 6-4, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Could you talk through the match today.  
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, it was a tough loss definitely. I think overall I played good tennis. I had my chances in the second set which I just couldn't take them, unfortunately. It's what Ash did well afterwards: when she had a chance she took it. That was kind of the deciding key of the match.   
Yeah, I mean, I didn't play bad, but she was just better in the important points.   
 Q.  After working so hard to try to get the break in the second set, in the third set maybe loose legs a bit. How much of an effect of that was the length of the match or how much was her going to the slice a lot, forcing you to do a lot of footwork through the match?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I think in those first two sets, I played a game which I really needed to. I just let her little bit into the game a bit.   
The third set was pretty difficult. I mean, she just started to play much better than she was playing before. She served much better. She couldn't miss almost anything. With those slices, been pretty difficult.   
But the third set shouldn't be if I played little bit better on those points in the second set.   
 Q.  What do you take from the swing of Wuhan through Beijing, looking ahead to the rest of the season?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, finally I had a great two weeks of tennis. I'm glad that I played many matches, which I missed in the second part of the season. So really glad for that.   
I'm glad that my body is still staying together. We will see how it will look like tomorrow. So far it's okay. So that's very important for me to know until the rest of the season.   
 Q.  What is the next tournament for you? I think you have qualified for WTA Finals. Will you still going to play Linz next week?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I don't think I'm qualified yet, so yeah, I'm going to Linz.   
 Q.  Speaking about Ash, in your last two matches, what are the adjustments you've seen maybe she's been able to make with your game and what improvements have you seen from her? You played four times this year.  
PETRA KVITOVA: I think she improved definitely those key points. I think she's stronger mentally than she was before. In the tight games, the end of the sets, she is there, she is just playing, trying the opponent make some mistakes. I think that was kind of the biggest change I seen.   
Before I think when she was pretty tired, she could double-fault or something like this. Now I think she's just playing and she's waiting for the opponent what can do, yeah.   
 Q.  With your scheduling, I think next week is also Tianjin. You go all the way back to Linz. Why go back to Europe instead of staying in China? That's a long way to go. What is the reason behind that?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I love to play in the Europe. That's the answer probably for that (smiling).   
For me, to choose Linz instead of Tianjin, just better choice for me. It's in Europe. By car from Prague, very easy travel. I'm entered in Moscow, which obviously it's nearby, as well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT