WUHAN OPEN
September 27, 2019
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. RISKE/P. Kvitova   
7-5, 7-5   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  There was some really good stuff in there.  
PETRA KVITOVA: Sometimes (smiling).   
 Q.  The second set, obviously you had the break. What changed?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I think in both sets I was up, but unfortunately I just couldn't make it till the end. Yeah, those last service games wasn't really easy for me. I just didn't really hit something more special than before.   
But definitely was a good match from both of us. I think was a pretty solid match. We played some good rallies, as well. Yeah, I missed some volleys unfortunately today. I can't be perfect, so...   
 Q.  What makes her a tricky opponent?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, she's playing pretty flat shots, which sometimes pretty good land, but sometimes it's pretty short in the court, which you always have to move forward in the court.   
I mean, she doesn't really have, like, one weapon. Overall, I mean, she's pretty solid player with a good movement as well. So that's probably makes her good player.   
 Q.  You haven't played her in a while. Was there anything she did today that surprised you?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Actually, not really. I mean, we stayed in the rallies. We both like playing pretty aggressive from the baseline, which we showed today. But I don't think she really surprised me with something special.   
 Q.  What are your biggest takeaways from this week?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Making semifinals, for sure. Some good points for Shenzhen, to be honest. Overall I'm glad that I won few more matches in the row. Being semifinalist after Stuttgart finally after some struggles I had this season. I'm taking very positive whole week here.   
I think I found my game a bit again, so it's nice to know.   
 Q.  How is your body feeling now?  
PETRA KVITOVA: My body right now? We will see tomorrow probably. It's been pretty tiring match, so I'm tired. It's late, as well. I need to get some treatment to be ready for Beijing.   
But overall it's okay.   
 Q.  Li Na said she would like to see you win the title here. Is there anything you'd like to say to her?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, actually I already did. It's really nice of her. Unfortunately it's couldn't happen.   
But, I mean, semifinal is good definitely.   
 Q.  Going into Wuhan, now into Beijing, how much is Shenzhen on your mind?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Not that much, I think. There's Shenzhen or Zhuhai. Whatever that's comes, that's comes. Was pretty struggling with my body in the second half of the season.   
If I'm not playing Shenzhen, I have one extra week to recover. Need to see positive things in everything (smiling).   
 Q.  After the China Open, you chose the Open at Linz. Whether you're going to Shenzhen or Zhuhai, do you think traveling will be a big issue for you from Asia to Europe?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, yeah, I going to play Linz just to have an option to still try to qualify for Shenzhen if there is a chance. I mean, traveling, of course, it's going to be big time difference between Europe and China. I mean, we are used to, so it's nothing really new for us.   
 Q.  Clearly the fans are rooting for you in the semifinal. They hope you were going to win. Can you say something to the fans?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Unfortunately I couldn't make it. But I had a great support whole week, not only on the match courts, but for my warmup. There were Czech flags everywhere. It was really nice to see the support of the Chinese fans.   
Yeah, I'm sad for them as well. I really heard them cheering on. Yeah, unfortunately I couldn't do it. Hopefully it will get better in Beijing.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT