WUHAN OPEN
September 26, 2019
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
P. KVITOVA/D. Yastremska   
6-2, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  You hadn't been able to play that many matches recently. How are you feeling? Are you impressed by your own performance?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, you're right. I don't really remember -- maybe Wimbledon. Yes, I remember.   
It's better today. Probably was worst after my first match when I played Polona. Was a tough one. The next day was pretty tough with me. I slept like whole day. I felt almost everything in my body. That was probably the worst one. Since then it's getting better.   
 Q.  With you making the semifinals, Ash making the semifinals, Sabalenka, Riske or Svitolina, is there something about the way these courts play, that players that play well on grass, repeatedly do well here?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I don't find the courts like that fast probably as the grass courts. Different balls, as well.   
It's flying a little bit more probably than in Cincinnati, for example. Overall, I mean, maybe it's little bit faster, but it's not like huge difference.   
 Q.  What did you make of Yastremska's game?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I think she is definitely trying to play very aggressive, which as we see is really paying off. She's a good mover, as well. She has a lot of energy anyway. I tried to put the pressure on her at the first play on the court, which I think was probably the key of it.   
Definitely she's young. She needs some experiences. But very talented.   
 Q.  A lot of your game seems to be based on the timing, how well you feel the ball. Two really good overrules tonight. Is that a testament to how well you're seeing the ball this week?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I hope so, yeah. I love playing in Wuhan, as we all know. Yeah, I think it's about the timing. It's about the practices, which I finally made some when I was back home. So I'm glad that I was able to practice.   
Of course, with the practice, the timing and seeing the ball is better. I'm just glad for that.   
 Q.  Back to the Wuhan semifinal. Did you find back your special connection with Wuhan? Are you looking forward to another final and title?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I always find a good connection between me and Wuhan every time, even I didn't make semifinals before. Yeah, I mean, I'm glad that I won the three matches. Definitely it was a good game today, as well. Pretty solid one. I'm just glad for that.   
We'll see how everything goes. Definitely the next opponent, either of them, will be a tough one. I'm just happy to be in a semifinal.   
 Q.  This isn't the first time you played an opponent a lot younger than you. Do you feel a little bit challenged or old when you are facing such a young opponent?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I think every time is a challenge facing different opponents. Yeah, she is pretty young, which is different little bit.   
But on the other side, experience was on my side today. I don't know, for me it's more tougher to play someone who you didn't face before, not really depends on the age.   
 Q.  Lots of people are talking about how this young generation is different from the old generation. What do you make of that? Do you think there's something significant for this next generation?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I'm glad that today wasn't the case (smiling). I don't want to count myself as an old one. Definitely she's the younger one.   
Overall, yeah, of course we are seeing new young faces on the tour. Bianca showed her best so far. Many, many others new is coming out. I think that we are still here. We're fighting until the end.   
 Q.  The men's tour has all these different team competitions. If space is made for it in the calendar, would you like to see a new team event? Do you think you'd enjoy that?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, of course I see those new team competitions on the ATP. I would like to stay with the Fed Cups. I think we do have enough tournaments to play.   
I always love to play team competitions. I mean, I'm really enjoying those weeks being in the Fed Cup team. It's different compared to other tournaments.   
Yeah, I saw the Laver Cup. It's amazing. I'm not really happy that we don't have it on our tour. But it's nice to see guys that are enjoying the time over there.   
I'm not really sure if we do have a space for that.   
 Q.  In a hypothetical scenario, is there any player past or present you would like to get some coaching from, anyone you'd be curious to get some tips from?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, definitely probably some. Maybe Steffi Graf.   
 Q.  You said you don't consider yourself one of the older players.  
PETRA KVITOVA: I should probably, right?   
 Q.  At what time will you start considering yourself older?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Never, never (laughter). A good answer, right?   
 Q.  Regarding the fans, when you see fans going crazy, what does that tell you? Does it give you pressure?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Actually, the pressure is there when we are playing Fed Cup at home. But not fans like here. It's like more energy for me, not pressure on my side.   
 Q.  You will play either Alison Riske or Svitolina. Talk about the different matchups.  
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, I played Elina I think last year in Singapore. She's a good mover. It will be probably about my game, how I going to put the pressure on her, if I going to face her.   
And with Alison, yeah, we played each other as well, but it's pretty long time. I think she is playing a little bit more flatter shots, trying to play more aggressive probably, as well. It will be similar game like today probably little bit.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Chinese.   
 Q.  You won here twice in Wuhan. Can be said it's a fortunate place for you. Do you feel this year's Wuhan Open is different from previous year's Wuhan Open?  
PETRA KVITOVA: No, I don't really feel it's different compared to other years. I just feel that everybody here is doing the best job as they can do. They are still improving lots of things here.   
I don't really see it differently compared to other years, but I see some new things.   
 Q.  What improvements do you think Wuhan Open can make this year? What improvement have you witnessed?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, we are seeing four courts for the practice, which is great definitely. I don't know. No idea from my side what they can improve.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT