ROLAND GARROS
May 27, 2019
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Sorry to hear your news.  Tell us, how long has this injury been troubling you?  And how does it feel right now?
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, actually, when I started to practice Roland Garros, I started to feel a little bit my forearm, but yesterday when I hit was much more worse, and suddenly I felt the pain.  Immediately I had to stop my practice.
I went to have an MRI, and, yeah, unfortunately I have a tear in my forearm, which is not great.  I sent it to my doctor, as well, to Dr. Kebrle, and same opinion as tournament doctor.  He said that I shouldn't really play.  It can be much more worse and I could be off for six weeks.
So now it's shorter period of time to take time to heal it and do whatever I need to do.
Q. How long will you have to stop playing?  Will you be okay for Wimbledon?  What's the prognosis?
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, I hope so (smiling).  Well, they said for now two to three weeks off, which means no tennis, of course, because it's my left forearm.  So unfortunately -- maybe I can play righty (smiling).
No, so, yeah, two to three weeks, so I gonna do some fitness and everything what I can do and to kind of prepare my body for the tennis on the grass then.  Of course that I'm staying positive for the grass season.
Q. Do you have any change of plans as to where you were planning to play?
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, it just happen last night, so I'm not pretty sure what I gonna do now.  I need to go back to Prague to see the doctors and kind of plan some recovery plan and then we will see what I am going to do.
Q. You have worked very hard with that left hand.  Is there connection between all of the stress and work that you have done on that side and this injury possibly?
PETRA KVITOVA: I don't think so, actually.  You know, of course the left arm is the probably more using part of my body.  It's happen when I playing the forehand, so of course without the forehand it's pretty difficult.
Yeah, and, you know, I'm playing for so many years already, so I think that since I came back from the accident, I working pretty hard and doing everything.  I'm playing maybe too much?  Who knows?  But I'm not complaining.  It's a great thing to have.
Yeah, just probably my body said that I need some time off, so I need to listen my body now.
Q. Did you feel the pain in a single shot?  Was it gradual when you first started to feel it?  Or was it like a movement?
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, here I felt some tightness in the forearm, but nothing really -- it wasn't something new, so, for me, it was okay.  Sometimes I do have tightness in my forearm, which is nothing really unusual.
But then, as I mentioned yesterday, I hit a normal forehand, and suddenly I felt a sharp pain in the forearm.  Yeah, my tears went to my eyes, and I said, Okay, I finish this practice.
So then I went to ultrasound.  They didn't see anything on ultrasound.  They sent me to MRI and they found on there.
Q. When you recover from an injury, as you have done in the past, and then go on to win big matches, does that make winning even more special, knowing that you have come back from adversity?
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I think that I already handle much more tougher things than just tear in my forearm.  So of course it's my left hand again, so I'm using my right a little bit more.  So I'm back in my younger years (smiling).
But it will be not probably that tough as it was.  Before, I didn't know what it will be and what's going to be.  Now I know that I gonna heal it.  Doesn't matter how long and I gonna be back, so it's much more easier I think.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT