US OPEN
August 27, 2019
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
P. KVITOVA/D. Allertova   
6-2, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Playing a Czech opponent, what did you make of the match today?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, obviously not easy playing Czech opponent in a way. We never face each other on the tour but we practice many times in Prague and Fed Cup tie. We know each other pretty well.   
For me it was the first round. For her it was like a fourth round. She qualified. So definitely she was playing well, and we play kind of similar game to each other. She wanted to put pressure on me and I wanted to put pressure on her.   
Luckily I was the first one who did it, and I think I served pretty well today, as well. I'm pretty glad that I played good match today.   
 Q.  Did you recover physically last week? How much did you practice outside with some of that awful weather? How relieved are you that it chilled out?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I didn't really practice that much, so for me it didn't really matter what the weather was.   
Well, we did kind of schedule that I going to practice one day and the other one I'm going to have free no tennis-wise for my forearm. That's how it was going and probably I'm going to have a day off tomorrow, as well.   
 Q.  You're playing with the sleeve. What does that do physically for you on the court?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I don't really feel any pain. Just getting swollen so that's why the compression sleeve on. Underneath I do have tape on the forearm, as well.   
That's what I'm trying to do everything to kind of be healthy with the forearm.   
 Q.  Venus and Maria have also started wearing that. Could you guess why maybe there is starting to be a rash of forearm issues?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I find out that Venus do it, but overall, sometimes I see some players wearing it. If it's helping for the circulation of the blood or anything, I have no idea. It should help, so that's why I'm wearing it, as well.   
 Q.  I think last week you were supposed to play Bronx and eventually you withdraw from that tournament. Why did you make that change?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, I did that straight after my match against Sakkari. But in the end I had to withdraw because my arm was very swollen and I felt it, and I didn't want to risk anything before the US Open.   
 Q.  So right now physically you feel 100% on your arm?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Almost 100%, yes.   
 Q.  You play Petkovic next. Maybe a familiar opponent. What do you make of her as an opponent and all that?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, we played many times in the past. I do remember when I lost to her in Australian Open, which wasn't really great. So, yeah, I going to try, going to be prepared for her. I know how she's playing. We know each other very well.   
We'll see, but, yeah, it will be another tough battle, anyway. She likes to put the pressure on the opponent, as well, playing fast. That's what I going to try, as well.   
 Q.  How have you been spending some of your days off?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I'm going every day to the cryo -- well, not every day but in the day off I'm doing it. I'm doing treatments, as well. I do have some fitness. Day off it's always fast, so I don't have anything to do then and it's end of the day, so, yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT