THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 6, 2019
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
P. KVITOVA/M. Linette   
6-3, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Do you consider this match as one of the best of this year's Wimbledon?  Today you were very consistent.  Probably felt well on court today.  
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, definitely I think I played the best tennis here today.  I think that she played great game as well.  She was serving much better than I was expecting actually.  So it was really difficult.   
But I think I played pretty aggressive.  It was kind of the key of it.  I moved pretty well, as well.  From the first point, I felt great.   
 Q.  Did you feel that Magda was a little bit nervous?  For her it was the first two wins in a row at Wimbledon.  Did you feel she was a little bit nervous?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I don't think so actually.  I mean, she played great from the first point.  I didn't really feel she's nervous.   
I think that she was pretty excited.  That's nice that she was playing really good in those two matches.  I think that she played great today, as well.   
 Q.  Before the tournament, you weren't even sure if you were going to play.  Do you now feel pretty confident going all the way?  
PETRA KVITOVA: No.  I'm pretty confident I have a day off tomorrow.  That's what I really know.  Of course, as I mentioned already many times before, the pain can come in the forearm and I have to retire.   
I mean, I'm really taking it very positive that I finished the match with the win, of course.  That's really important for me.  I'm not really looking too ahead.   
 Q.  Did it help there were reduced expectations going into the tournament?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Maybe.  Maybe yes.  Now my mind it's more focusing on the arm than maybe on the tennis.  It's a bit difficult in the practices before, my arm just getting tighter.  I just felt it.  I couldn't really hit it.   
I'm always worried about the scenarios that's come in the match.  So far it's okay.  I'm really glad that I can play my game without any pain.   
 Q.  Only 3 hours 34 minutes on court in three matches.  Must be pleased because it gives you time to stay fresh.  Most of the points were four strokes or less.  Is that where you want to be where you can have success on this surface?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, definitely I think.  Of course, it's great to play just two sets, for sure, for my arm.  Is the best what I can have.  But you really never know what is coming next.   
Definitely this is the game which I showed today.  I think in previous matches, as well, that's the game plan which I want to really play on the grass.  I mean, if I'm just pushing the balls there, I don't think that I do have any big chance.   
With the strokes which I play today, even from the returns already was the key of it.  I going to try my best to continue in this kind of performance.   
 Q.  It's the first Wimbledon without Agnieszka Radwanska in the draw.  Did you have any opportunity to talk with her?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I saw her, but I was just hitting.  I just saw her passing our court.  Of course, we said hi and everything.  I didn't really have a chance to talk with her.   
 Q.  How does it feel she's not in the draw?  Do you miss her?  
PETRA KVITOVA: It was nice to see her, definitely, when I saw her passing our court.  It is different, of course, as we always met each other in the locker room.  I always like her, admire her as a player and as a person.   
Yeah, definitely it was nice to see her.   
 Q.  You don't know yet who will you play in the fourth round.  Either Sloane or Jo Konta.  Talk through the challenge of playing both of them.  
PETRA KVITOVA: Both of them are playing different game.   
Jo, I think for her, the grass is really going in the good way when she's playing kind of flat shots from the both sides, especially from the backhand.  I think she likes to play on the grass.  Of course, the crowd will be on her side.   
We played I think last year in Birmingham.  I little bit know what she's playing, what she's able to do.  Will be difficult match, for sure.   
The same with Sloane.  I don't really have a great record against her.  She's playing a little bit different.  She likes to have a topspin from the forehand.  She's a really great mover on the court.  I didn't face her for a long time, not even on the grass.  I'm not sure how her game it's been working on the grass.   
 Q.  You said before the tournament it wasn't an ideal situation because you didn't get the chance to swing the racquet very often.  How do you feel about your progression from round one to round three, your strokes, serve?  
PETRA KVITOVA: My serve was a big help, not only today but in my previous matches, as well.  Every match gets better.  Matches are the best practice, what we are calling with my coach.  Yeah, I wasn't able really to practice.   
I'm glad that I'm able to find a good performance during the match.  I think when I play longer, it's just getting better.   
 Q.  Novak Djokovic said about the mentality of champions.  Do you agree that the best players in the ATP Tour and the WTA Tour has the mentality that allows you to achieve 100% focus even during the matches when you're not in as good shape as you probably are in at 100%?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I think he should be right.  He's a champion.  Definitely I think that's the kind of differences between those players in the top, let's say, 10, than the other players.  It's the small differences.   
Like, they are pretty strong mentally in the important key points during the match and during the sets.  They really know when they should just push it.  That probably is making the differences.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT