MIAMI OPEN PRESENTED BY ITAú
March 27, 2019
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. BARTY/P. Kvitova   
7-6, 3-6, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  You played her a few times already this year.  Anything particularly different about this match to make it go her way?  They have been close.  
PETRA KVITOVA: I think she played a little bit differently.  Probably more to my game, which obviously was helpful.   
But I did have my chances, definitely.  I played better in the end of the tiebreak in the first set.  I got a bit tight.  Then I fought back in the second, and just down in the third it was tough to come back.   
I think was kind of, you know, in the end, was a similar game as we played before.  It was just on her side this time, and I think she really played well.  She didn't give me anything for free.   
I mean, she has a great touch, and those slices sometimes it was, like, amazing, maybe better than from some male players.  Definitely was a great game from her.   
 Q.  Were you having some breathing problems?  I saw you using the inhaler.  
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, I did.  You know, I have asthma for so many years.  Just came on today.   
 Q.  Is it the weather or the humidity?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I think it's the humidity, for sure, yeah.   
 Q.  I'm sure you heard that the gentleman who stabbed you was sent to jail for eight years, if you have a comment about that?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, I heard that.  For sure I heard that this morning, and yeah, I accept the news, of course, that I'm happy for the news, and I'm glad that it's over now.   
 Q.  Does it have a sense of closure, then, for you?  Like you can put it behind you, like it's finished?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, that's what I said.  I'm glad that it's over.   
 Q.  Where do you go next?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Home.   
 Q.  What are you going to do at home?  You have been away for a while.  
PETRA KVITOVA: I don't know.  I need to prepare for clay season, so it's coming.  But I'm going to play Stuttgart is my first tournament on the clay, so I do have some time to, you know, have a good practices under my belt.   
But I need a few days off, as well.  You know, it's been pretty long here in U.S., and I'm glad to reach the quarterfinals, for sure.  I'm glad for it, as well.   
 Q.  Will you play Fed Cup?  
PETRA KVITOVA: No.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT