DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 20, 2019
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








P. KVITOVA/J. Brady
7-5, 1-6, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Is it more relief or frustration?
PETRA KVITOVA: It's both.  Definitely it's a relief right now.  But I think in couple of minutes or hours, it will be really exhausting.
I tried to be quicker today than yesterday.  I did little bit better, but still was pretty tough.  The wind was just terrible today, to be honest.  It was really difficult to kind of find a way with it.  I couldn't really serve well today at all.
It's been big struggle for me.
Q. Seemed like you lost your rhythm a bit after the first game in the second.  How aware are you when that's happening and how do you battle that?
PETRA KVITOVA: That was probably the worst game which I played, I think the first game.  I didn't make it.  I really felt big, big chance there.  But from the time, I don't know, probably mentally I just dropped and I can't really handle it, my serve afterwards.  I lost that game.  From that time, it was like really quick.
Yeah, I'm happy that I started better in the third, which I started with my serve.  Obviously it was better, but still I was down 40-15.  I turned it around, I don't know how, but I did.  It was really important.
Q. Is there a reason why you didn't call Jiri in the second set?  And what did he say to you when you did call him?
PETRA KVITOVA: He said I didn't really do anything bad in the first game and I didn't break her.  But obviously, as I said, mentally I just dropped a bit.  That's what he said, that I still need to be patient because the chance can come.
I probably wanted too much from the first game in the second set.  It just cost me a lot after.
Q. Not a lot of players play like Jenny, heavy topspin.  How do you adjust to that in the wind?
PETRA KVITOVA: It was difficult.  I never played her, so it's always kind of different play someone who you didn't play before.  I knew a bit from Jiri, what he said she's playing like.
Yeah, the heavy topspin, I don't really see many players playing like that on the tour.  It was a bit difficult with the wind.  It was just everywhere, as you said.
Happy that I was able to kind of handle it somehow and play little bit aggressively to her forehand.
Q. Spending about five hours in two matches on court, do you think that gives you an advantage going forward?
PETRA KVITOVA: Right now I don't think so (smiling).
Well, I didn't play matches for long time, since St. Petersburg.  I came here, I didn't really have many days of practice, to be honest.  I had something different to do in my life.  I wasn't really that prepared for this tournament.
But I'm happy that I was able to get those two wins, which I think it's great when you don't playing your best and you still find a way to win it, which was yesterday and today as well.
I think I'm very happy for that.
Q. Looks like it will be Sofia Kenin next.  You played her in Miami last year, three sets.  Do you remember anything about that match?
PETRA KVITOVA: I do remember a lot, unfortunately.  Was a tough one.  She's young.  She doesn't really have anything to lose.  She's playing really fearless.  She can move forever.  Playing with the left from the forehand, as well.
Yeah, I think in that case I just need to play my game again, to kind of don't give her the time to do what she wants.
Q. Naomi lost yesterday, and she talked a lot about how difficult it's been to adjust to the attention.  Can you relate to that?  Maybe you don't love the attention either.  How did you adjust to it after winning Wimbledon?
PETRA KVITOVA: I don't, yeah.  I think that she is kind of shy person, probably like me in the time.  It was really difficult for me, that time, for sure.  I totally understand Naomi.
It's not really easy to handle the pressure and attention and the media, press, whatever is happening in her life.  Of course, splitting with the coach is nothing really easy, as well.
Everything she been through, she really trying.  That really count.  That's nice.  I think she just needs little bit more time to get used to all of the things which happening in her life.
Q. Do you remember the point in your career when you started to get used to the circus?
PETRA KVITOVA: I think it took me like a year probably.  But I don't really remember it that well.  It's took me while, for sure.  Then three years to win another Grand Slam.  It's been a while.
I was still in the top 10.  I was still fighting.  In the big stages, I couldn't just do that.  On the other hand, it's about experiences, it's about coming to the court and knowing that you are the favorite of every match.  Every player on the other side wants to beat you.  She's No. 1, Grand Slam winner, everyone just wants to beat her.  That's how the players are thinking.
They are going to play someone from the top 10, for example.  I do remember when I was young, I totally had same mindset.  Yeah, that's how it is.
Q. Would you give her any advice?
PETRA KVITOVA: I don't think so.  She just need the time.  I don't think there's any advice.  I think that she just need to live it and find experiences from it.  She will be fine.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT