ROLAND GARROS
October 1, 2020
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








P. KVITOVA/J. Paolini
6-3, 6-3
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
Q. Can you just talk about the match today and how you feel like you played and handled the conditions as well as your opponent.
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, so first of all was raining in the morning, so I didn't really know that we are going at 11:00.  So it was a little bit rushy for me before 11:00.
But all good.  The conditions, in the beginning was kind of cold and a little bit windy, I would say.  When was still on, the sun came and it was much warmer, but then when cloud was there it was cold again.  I was really thinking about my long-sleeve T-shirt, if I should put it on or off.  So it was really challenging today.  No, I'm kidding.
Definitely she played really well.  She really surprised me a little bit from the baseline.  She really played fast, and she has a talent.  I would say like Francesca or Sara or, you know, Roberta, all of them played a little bit differently than she.  I didn't really expect her to play like this.  Pretty flat shots from both sides.  She moved very well.
I had opportunity to go from the first point on the return, definitely that's one of my key, and served much better, but the serve wasn't really working that well in the second set especially, so it was really trouble with me today.
Overall, I mean, I'm really happy how I handle it.  It wasn't really easy.  I was broke few times, and I really had to put something else in those important points and really still be there mentally and be strong in those.
Really trying to play some rallies, as well.  Try to go for the net.  Not that often, but when I was there, it was good point for me.  So, yeah, I'm happy (smiling).
Q. A quick question about the famous underarm serve.  In your opinion is this a disrespectful move in tennis?
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, I don't really think so.  I don't think it's disrespectful.  I mean, of course the player has kind of different thoughts on it.  Depends if it's like tactical or it's really like, you know, the player can't move the arm that well or whatever it's happening.
So in my career, it's never happened to me, but I had a thought once, to be honest, because I couldn't serve.  So I was thinking to put it like, you know, underarm.
Yeah, it's difficult.  Especially for the women.
Q. Has anyone served underarm to you?
PETRA KVITOVA:   Actually, I don't think so, no.  Never probably.
Q. How much quieter is Roland Garros for you this year compared to, you know, years past, you know, bubble, fewer fans, less people on-site, all that sort of thing.  Is it that much quieter?
PETRA KVITOVA:   To be honest, I mean, we really had a great school in US Open.  US Open is always so crowded and suddenly it was so quiet.
For me to be here and playing, it's okay.  I didn't really thinking about it.  I know some spectators here, but, I mean, of course you don't really see them and hear them.  It's really like almost playing without it.
I mean, that's the experience what I have from New York, it's really something totally okay and I don't really think about it at all.
Q. You mentioned you were in a bit of a rush this morning.  I'd just like to ask you, could you tell us a bit about your usual prematch routine?  Are there some things that you like to do all the time?  Are you an organized person, or do you sometimes...
PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, I mean, I do have my routine which normally, I don't know, after warming up on the court for half an hour, I'm going to physios to tape my toes.
Then I'm coming to put my new grips for the racquets, to see my coaches, to have a talk a little bit, and I'm ready to warm up for the match.  It's nothing really that specific for me.
But of course when you're playing at 11:00, I just need to eat a little bit.  So it was like still raining.  10:30, it was still raining.  I was, like, Okay, we will probably not go at 11:00, so 11:30 or something.  I was, like, Okay, I still have time.  10:40 and they were on the court and cleaning.  I was, like, Oh, my God.  Now it's really rushed.
So good thing was that I already was warmed up before so it was a good one.  Yeah, then sometimes the rushing is good because you don't have time to think too much.
I'm always trying to see the positive of it (smiling).
Q. You could play either Leylah Fernandez or Polona Hercog in the third round.  Can you talk about the challenge?  I can't remember if you've played Fernandez or not.  She's quite young.  She's new.  But I know you know Polona pretty well.
PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, definitely.  As you mentioned, I don't know Fernandez, so who knows?  But I think my coach left to watch her, I think, or if they are playing already, I don't know.
But definitely I know Polona.  We played few times, practiced as well.  You know, she has kind of different game.  She has a big serve, a great kick, has like forehand with a topspin which is I think very helpful on the clay.  She has a good slice, she's a good mover.
I would say clay suits her game, for sure.  I don't know.  Roland Garros is always kind of special, clay courts even.  So I mean, I need to play aggressive again.  So, I mean, what I can say, yeah?  I can't play any different game.  So, yeah, that's it (smiling).






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT