DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 17, 2019
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Talk me through the period after the Australian Open.  When you had some time to think about it, how did you take it all in?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Everything was so quick.  I just went home.  I got my visa to Russia, then flew next day to the St. Pete.  That's it.  I just flew to Monte-Carlo a couple days, being home for a week.  That's the preparation for the Dubai.   
I didn't really have time to think too much.  I was really in a circle.  I really had to do a lot of things.  Yeah, I mean, of course kind of the pain from the whole thing is gone.  I'm taking positive way.   
 Q.  What are you most proud of from the two weeks there, what part of your game, your mentality?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I think was the mentality that I wasn't really scared going for the aggressive game plan, for the winners, playing kind of free.   
Sometimes when I'm little bit more scared, I'm missing really badly.  In the head, is just going lot of thoughts afterwards.   
Probably the mentally side was the strongest one there.   
 Q.  You missed here last year, had to pull out.  Is that more motivation this year?  Do you feel as if you want to do even better at the tournament than if you played last year?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, unfortunately I had to pull out last year after Doha.  I'm glad I can be here again.  I do have the best memories what I can from this city and from this venue.  I really enjoying this time here.   
I don't really have any extra motivation.  Motivation is as every other week.  I'm glad to be here and play again.  It's important.   
 Q.  What about your memories winning it six years ago?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I don't know how many years it is (smiling).   
I do remember that I was here alone, without my coach, without anyone actually.  I just played by myself, by my thoughts.  That probably is the strongest memory I have from the tournament.   
 Q.  You have had a lot happening outside the court.  In what way do you find both your sport and life, how are things different for you now?  How do you see yourself differently?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, I do see life a little differently, tennis as well.  I know how close you are to something that you can really lose.  It was just about a few moments.   
I do look little bit differently on everything, I think.  I'm not really stressing about some small things.  I'm really enjoying the life and the time right now.  That's the good one.   
 Q.  You experienced winning a slam when you were young, then you waited three more years, got the other one.  What are your thoughts on how Naomi has managed to win back-to-back slams like that?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, it's true, it's a big deal for sure.  I mean, it's really a great achievement.  She really deserve it with two wins at the tournaments.  She's pretty young still.  She is really playing great.   
Maybe that helping her, as well:  she not thinking too much about it, maybe playing a little bit more fearless, which is great.   
 Q.  Now that you've made a Grand Slam final not at Wimbledon, do you think you're going to go to the other slams now with a different kind of confidence?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, always going to other Grand Slams with different kind of confidence.  But I'm glad that finally I made a different final, different than Wimbledon.  I made some semifinals before, which it's important as well.  Final is better, of course.   
Yeah, hopefully it's gives me another kind of view on my tennis, on my game.  Will be little bit different on the other Grand Slams.   
 Q.  There's a curious situation at the moment that all Grand Slam winners from last year are not together with their former coaches.  They split for some reasons.  Do you find it strange?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I still do have my coach.  I don't win the Grand Slam, so I kept him (smiling).   
I don't know, like, what happened in this kind of relationship.  I think it's pretty private.  It's just their problem.  If they are not together, it's how it is.   
I don't know what I can say about it.   
 Q.  Just leaving after such success, I mean.  
PETRA KVITOVA: Probably wasn't really something working there.  I don't know.  It's tough.  It's tough decisions, for sure.  It's tough to find the right coach, as well, yeah.   
 Q.  Obviously last year you had a great year, five titles.  When you were approaching this one, did it come to your mind that you want to do the same or even better?  What is the mentality like knowing how well you did last year?  
PETRA KVITOVA: It is important for me, for sure.  It was on all the surfaces we have, which of course helped my mentality, as well, after coming back, to know that I can play on all surfaces, playing the best tennis I can.   
It was really important for me to know it, to find out that I am able to.  It was a big one last year.   
 Q.  I was talking to Madison Keys in Melbourne about what kind of topics she would like to have a more active role in the WTA, speak out about certain things.  Is there anything you feel, especially at this point in your career, being around for a while, that you would like to be addressed to make women's tennis stronger?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Hmm.  Well, it's not a answer for one minute of thinking.  I'm not sure right now.  For sure will be something.  I'm not sure it will be, like, a big deal.  It's a good question, to be honest.   
 Q.  I can ask it after the tournament.  
PETRA KVITOVA: You can, okay.  Deal (smiling).   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT