AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 24, 2019
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What a match.  You're into your very first Australian Open final.  I know you've won majors before, but you're here in the final now.  What does this mean to you?  
PETRA KVITOVA: You're going to make me cry again.   
 Q.  I'm not going to make you cry, no.  Just want to know what it means to you.  
PETRA KVITOVA: It's means everything, I think.  That's why I really work very hard to be in the finals of the tournaments, final of the majors.  Finally I could make it kind of deep in this major.   
I will really enjoy the final.  Yeah, whatever happen, I'm ready.  Very, very happy.   
 Q.  You deserve to be.  This match started in extreme heat.  They closed the roof at 4-All.  I'm not sure who was happier by it, the fans or you.  How did that impact this match?  Your game really seemed to take off here.  
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, the first set was very tight from myself.  I was pretty nervous.  I couldn't really have a full swing, be more relaxed as I was in the matches before.  I'm really glad that came in the tiebreak and the second set.   
Actually, I think I was happier than the fans that the roof closed (laughter).  I like play indoors.  It's really, I think, help me a little bit.  Doesn't matter, it was kind of warm.  If it's open, I still going to fight, so doesn't really matter.   
 Q.  Did you know before the match, did the referee tell you it's likely we're going to close the roof?  Were you surprised they closed it?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I heard few days ago about kind of rule change.  I ask the WTA today how is the possibility of closing the roof, how is it.  She told me.   
 Q.  We're going to have another semifinal here shortly, your countrywoman, Karolina Pliskova, taking on Naomi Osaka.  Your thoughts on both of them as players, a look ahead to the final for you?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I think both of them are great, what we can say.  Yeah, I think Karolina had a great match against Serena.   
Naomi is really on the fire, she's playing really well.  Both of them playing aggressive down the baseline.  I think Karolina is a bigger server.   
We'll see.  It will be very interesting.  I not sure if I going to watch, but we'll see who we're going to meet.   
 Q.  You're in the final.  Do you have one more win in you?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I love playing finals.  That's my answer.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT