BNP PARIBAS WTA FINALS SINGAPORE
October 23, 2018
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








C. WOZNIACKI/P. Kvitova
7-5, 3-6, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Can you talk about the match today and how you were feeling?  It felt like from the outside for us in the third set you were feeling tired.  How was it for you?
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, I'm tired right now (smiling), more tired than after my first match, definitely.
Yeah, I think the third set, the beginning, she just took it probably a little bit better from the beginning of the third set, which obviously we had a lot of long rallies, and unfortunately I couldn't make the kind of those points on my side.
But definitely I played better than the first match, for sure.  I find a way to fight, which is best probably in the end of the season.
And, yeah, whatever has happened happened, and I should just look forward for the next one.
Q. So what's your mindset now?  Because obviously you're going to have to wait for this next match and then you'll know what your fate is.  How do you sort of reset for the next match?
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, yeah.  I feel weird, to be honest.  I don't know what will happen or not, but I still do have one more match, anyway.  I do have Fed Cup finals, so still the season is not over yet.
I don't know.  I will wait how everything will go.  I will go, for sure, for the next one and will do everything what I can, anyway.
Q. It seemed that the season perhaps is a tale of two halves, maybe, or can you talk about this last stretch from the US Open onwards?  What were you feeling and what do you think you can do to try and keep the momentum to the end of the season?  Because you played so much in the first half, so how difficult is it now?
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, I think that in the second half of season I have been a little bit tired from the first half.  I think I played great one in Cincinnati.  Not bad in US Open.  Just that match with Sabalenka was just difficult.
The Asian swing, yeah, I was sick before, so I'm not sure how I should explain that.  And of course this one is just really tough from the first match.  Of course this hurts to have those two losses, but I can't be too hard on myself to just be here after everything.  So I just need to think positively, which is pretty hard right now, but, yeah, I should.
Q. Caroline has had so much success on this court, on this surface, and seems to really enjoy it in a way that a lot of players maybe don't, have talked about how they don't really care for this surface.  I'm curious if there's anything you've noticed about her game that works particularly well on this court or anything you have noticed?
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, I played Elina and Caroline, and they have kind of similar game.  Yeah, they can catch a lot of balls, which is same for both of them.
I think that Caroline played a little bit better today than the first match, which I saw a little bit in the TV, but I did, as well, so it was a big fight and I'm proud of the fight, for sure.
Yeah, definitely I think that she gained some confidence from the last year, I think in today's match in the third set particularly.  She served pretty well, as well, especially the second serve.  It was pretty long, and it was tough to attack it.  Yeah, she likes it.
Q. Did you notice if she did anything different tactically today than in your former meetings?
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I think she didn't really surprise me with anything.  I knew that she gonna try to put everything back.  In the third set I think she tried to be a little bit more aggressive and going a little bit more to those shots and played a little bit more down the line.  That's only one thing which I think she changed a little bit in the third one.
Q. We saw you get a little bit frustrated.  We don't see you often throw the racquet.
PETRA KVITOVA: Okay.
Q. I'm just wondering what was going through your mind at that point.  Is there anything in particular you're not happy with your game today?
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, for sure.  Not few things but a lot (smiling).
Yeah, sometimes I think I get a little bit frustrated, but it was like going very quickly.  In this specific shot, I just missed a very easy backhand which I shouldn't do, especially with Caroline when what the balls is playing.
I had a great rally, but the easier one, I just missed it.  And especially in the third set when I was down and she was really playing probably the best in the match, it was just really hurting.  Even I won the game afterwards, but, yeah, I was fine after, but it's just, yeah, sometimes the emotions has to go out.
Q. So you said you feel a little bit tired after the first half of the season.  So that kind of situation make you change your preparation or schedule for the next season to make sure that you got more fitness for the second half or for the slams?
PETRA KVITOVA: Definitely I need to have, like, good a season as I had last year.  And I think that we will do a little bit better scheduling of the tournaments not to get this many -- well, it's great to have so many matches, but in the other hand, it's just taking me some energy.  So I think we just need to find a balance of playing those tournaments.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT