AUSTRALIAN OPEN
February 8, 2021
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  P. KVITOVA/G. Minnen
 6-3, 6-4
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. How does it feel to get that first Grand Slam win of the year under your belt?
 PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, for sure it was great, of course.  The first rounds are always very difficult, and it wasn't easy today either.
 I'm really glad that after kind of score looking it was easy the first set but suddenly something happen, and I'm really glad that I was able to turn it around for my side.  That's been really important for me.
 Q. Is it something you tell yourself when you were down those breakpoints and the second set wasn't going so well but then you saved the breakpoints and all of a sudden you were hitting winners and forcing errors from her to break.  Is that something you actively tell yourself or do you just find your game all of a sudden?
 PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, of course, facing the game point on breakpoint is always something different compared to (indiscernible).  Yeah, I just try to play the next point.
 Of course normally it's on my ball to, you know, do it, and play actively and play fast, and I think in those breakpoints it was important I didn't have a mistake and was just going for it.
 Of course it's difficult, but in those two games, which I hold my serve in the second set was the key for sure for the second set.  Otherwise I'm playing the third one (smiling).
 Yeah, it's been really difficult for those two games to hold the serve.
 Q. On Venus, the last time we saw you here, last win you had last week was that great match against Venus on the same court.  Earlier today she played on the same court and also won.  Looking at the draw, a couple of wins I think you guys would meet in the fourth round.  So I know that's a little ways away, but what do you think of Venus, what she's doing at age 40, and maybe the possibility you could meet here again after your wonderful match last week?
 PETRA KVITOVA:   First of all, I don't care who I'm gonna meet in the fourth round because I'm not there.  Second time, obviously Venus played great match even against me, so she's still playing great.  She's still champion, and she really can make huge results.
 I think it's her game, and that's how she is playing.  So she has a big serve, and it's really difficult to break her.
 Yeah, I played good match as well against her, and that's how I wanted to keep it up still.
 Q. Looking ahead, you play Sorana Cirstea in the next round.  Can you talk about the challenge of playing her.
 PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, first of all, I think it's always challenge to play her.  We played few times already, and I know she's playing really aggressive, similar game as me.
 You really never know how the match will go.  So that's probably the main important for me to stay there every point I gonna play, because it can turn there or the other side.  It will be very difficult for sure.  She can really play very well.  So that I have to be prepared for her.
 Q. Obviously this happened at the US Open where we played the Cincinnati tournament at the same site as the US Open.  This time you're doing it again.  Does it feel different that it's day one at a slam compared to, you know, last week playing the 500s, did you feel different today?  Did the courts feel different?  Was the air different?  I don't know.
 PETRA KVITOVA:   I feel different, for sure.  It was the same as New York, as you mentioned.  I felt different playing Cincinnati and Grand Slam, so it was same today.  I think I was more nervous, I was more pumped as well before the match.
 Yeah, it definitely feels different, and today we had more fans than for the tournament, as well.  That was nice.
 Q. Everybody is talking about the speed of the courts and that it feels to everyone I have talked to faster, much faster some people say, than in years past.  What's your experience so far competing and practicing on these courts?
 PETRA KVITOVA:   Yeah, for sure it's faster.  I can't say it's much faster, but in last year and two years ago, I mean, I didn't have anything to say against it, so I will stay in this for this year.  But, yeah, I feel it's a little bit faster.
 Q. In a good way for you, or too fast?
 PETRA KVITOVA:   I hope in a good way (smiling).
 Q. You have been bronze medalist at the Rio Olympic Games beating Madison Keys.  What kind of emotions did that bring into your mind and would you plan to go to Tokyo this year if it happens?
 PETRA KVITOVA:   Well, for me, the match against Madison was really tough one, for sure, after losing in semifinal against Monica, which was very, very hurting.
 To get ready for the next day to play for the bronze medal was very difficult, and obviously facing Madison it's not easy at all.  That match will always be in my mind and heart, for sure.  I was very, very happy and emotional after my win, and of course having the bronze medal was a dream for me.
 If everything will be fine, I will go to Tokyo, for sure.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT