BNP PARIBAS WTA FINALS SINGAPORE
October 21, 2018
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








E. SVITOLINA/P. Kvitova
6-3, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Obviously not the way you wanted to start.  What was the trickiest thing for you out there today?
PETRA KVITOVA: I think I didn't play that bad, as the score looked like, but I did have those chances when I had like 30-Love on her serve.  I just couldn't make it.  Those two, three games, was probably kind of key to break it or turn it around.  I was just not able to do that.
She served pretty well in those times, as well, but I think that she really played very consistent.  She didn't give me anything for free.  It was pretty difficult to have those winners.  I didn't really think that I -- of course that I make some easy mistakes, but it's just part of my game.  I knew that I have to go forward, to play more aggressive.  I tried a few volleys, which I think was probably good today.  So maybe I could go more often to the net.
But overall, yeah, wasn't the best start, but the good thing is that there is still a chance to play better and to improve and maybe go somewhere forward.
Q. You still have a very good record against her.  Did she change anything?  She was serving better today than your previous matches?
PETRA KVITOVA: She did serve good in those games when she was down, I think.  Of course I could return it better, as well, what we can say, right?
But I think overall she didn't miss.  Everything was just on me, which that's normally like that, unfortunately.  Well, sometimes fortunately.
Yeah, I don't think that she did, like, anything like particularly that great, but she was very, very solid from the baseline and she (indiscernible) balls and didn't miss it.
Q. Having practiced on that court, how did it play in actual competition?
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah.  I didn't find it that fast probably as in the practice (smiling).  Unfortunately she return almost everything, as well, which I was a bit surprised.  I don't think that I served that bad.
Yeah, in the practice just seems faster, yeah.  Hmm.
Q. You seem pretty positive, which is a good sign.  What do you think is keeping you most optimistic this week:  the fact you have two more matches, the fact you didn't play that badly?  What makes you so happy tonight?
PETRA KVITOVA: Just the life makes me happy.  Well, I already said it that I'm already very proud of myself to be here and be part of it.  I'm not depressed and just sitting and crying.
On the other hand, there is still a chance to go.  So that's the good thing about the WTA Finals and about the group.
Yeah, it's not the end, so life is still going, so that's why (smiling).
Q. I'm only asking you about your forehand for the past two days.  How is your forehand today?
PETRA KVITOVA: My forehand was so-so today.  A few of them were very great, and a few of them were very bad.  I wish it could be more percentage of the good ones, but, yeah, she just made me play probably more and more shots, which I didn't really handle it that well as I did in the previous matches against her.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT