SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL
January 12, 2019
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
P. KVITOVA/A. Barty   
1-6, 7-5, 7-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  It looked like you had to dig really deep for that one.  
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah.   
 Q.  Take us through how it felt.  
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, it's true.  I left everything out there.  I was cramping in the end.  It wasn't the best.   
But, you know, she's Aussie, so she used to these conditions.  I played three times in the night, so for me it was totally different conditions, which from the beginning I feel very, very slow.  So it just took me a while to get used to the rhythm and get back to the play.   
It was such a great final, to be honest, I think.  It was a big fight until the end.  That's the way final should be, I think.   
 Q.  When you went down 6-1 in the first set, what do you say to yourself?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, I was still staying pretty positive.  I knew that I'm tired, I'm slow, but I was just trying to get back to the rallies and wait.   
The key was probably the serve that I gonna try to hold the serve and maybe wait for the chance if she doesn't have great game, which that came in the end of the second set and that helped me a lot.   
But I was down a break in the third again, so I really had to fight and came back in the third, as well.   
 Q.  How challenging was it, two really late features.  Did that make things harder to come in today?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah.  Yeah, the conditions were different compared to three matches which I played before.  Luckily we had no rain today (smiling).   
Yeah, it was pretty hard.  She mixed it a lot.  She was different opponent which I had before, as well.  So it was a bit challenging this time, for sure.   
 Q.  Was it cramps?  At times it looked like you were grabbing your leg.  
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, I didn't feel the best.  I was exhausted.  I had cramps, as well.  I didn't feel well from my stomach, as well.  It was a long match, and I really need lots of energy, so every time I was on the bench I was still eating something.  It was a lot of sugar (smiling).  My stomach just feel weird right now, but doesn't really matter, right?  Yeah.   
 Q.  You fly down tomorrow?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I'm flying tonight.   
 Q.  And then resting up for most of tomorrow?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I'm probably going to hit tomorrow.  I'm playing Monday.  So I need to kind of get used to those conditions.  I mean, the balls are same, but, you know, it's different place, different court, so we will see how the surface will look like, but probably I'm going to hit tomorrow.   
 Q.  Just a word on Ash.  She's our girl.  
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, sure.   
 Q.  What's it like to face her?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I really like Ash.  She's a great competitor.  She's a very nice person off the court, as well.   
I feel sorry for her that she couldn't make it today, unfortunately, but, you know, I mean, she really put everything out there today, and she really played a great game.   
She served very well, as well.  She had a great run to the final.  Unfortunately she was in the final last year, as well.   
It's not the best for her, but she's very talented.  Even like she stop with the tennis and she came back, and she's playing unbelievable.  It's only great things to her.   
 Q.  Do you think she will crack the top 10?  Do you think she has it in her to crack the top 10?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, I think she has it, yeah.  For sure if she gonna play like this whole season, then there is no chance she will not make it.   
 Q.  She's seemed to beat more top 10 opponents I guess in the last week or so, last few months.  Is that something you girls in the top 10 have been noticing that she can play against high-ranked opponents now?  
PETRA KVITOVA: You know, I think it's about experience, a bit, as well.  I think she has the game to beat the top 10 players, but there is a few points always like when you decide it on which way it is, like it's probably on the other side and on her, but it's maybe about the time when it will be on her side.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT