U.S. OPEN
August 30, 2018
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








P. KVITOVA/Y. Wang
7-5, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Just talk about the match today.  How do you feel you played?
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I think we both played great.  I think it was a really great match.  Didn't really expect that tough, probably.  I played her once in Beijing, but few years ago.  What I do remember from the match, I know that she can really play well.
But I couldn't really imagine play her like today.  So it was really tough.  I was up 4-1, had a chance for 5-1, but she just hit incredible shots.
Yeah, I think I get a little bit momentum over there.  She took it back, and I had to really fight in the first set, and the heat was really exhausting.
Luckily I won the first set.  Actually, when I was 5-4 down I was thinking already, like, Okay, if I lost the first set, it would be really tough in these conditions to win that match.
So I really tried hard to win the first one, and, yeah, it was good in the end, for sure.  The second set was pretty solid and consistent.  I was happy with that.
Q. Sabalenka is playing great tennis coming in.  Good results on hard courts.  Talk about that matchup?
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, you're right.  Definitely she's on fire right now and in great form.
I did play her in Miami.  We played three sets.  I do remember something from that match.  She's playing kind of, you know, sometimes that she really serve and have one great shot.  I don't see her as a kind of player who is moving side to side, playing lots of rallies.
So overall I think that we are playing a little bit similar game.  I gonna try to be the one who put the pressure on her and not she will put pressure on me.
Q. This is your first time playing in the new Armstrong Stadium.  How do you feel about the new stadium?
PETRA KVITOVA: I did have a warmup over there for the first time I saw it live.  It was incredible.  Beautiful court.  Really, I think it's small Arthur Ashe, so it's kind of cute, as well.  It was great.  The atmosphere was pretty nice, as well.  Yeah, I'm really excited about that.
Q. You have been Petra with a three for so long. Do you feel like you're doing something differently in these matches?  Is it a relief to get these done in two?
PETRA KVITOVA: I didn't really do anything.  I'm just trying not to have moment of not playing great for a longer time than I was probably before when I lost a set.  But I almost did it today.  Well, depends if it's gonna be third set.  But if I gonna lost the first one, then, of course, I gonna try to fight back and play the third one.
But I'm pretty happy that I was managing to win the first one.
Q. Do you do anything different to train for the heat than you would ordinarily?
PETRA KVITOVA: I don't really, actually.  I'm just trying to still be inside with the air condition, than really be outside walking a lot.
I didn't hit yesterday, either.  So I was just saving the energy.
Q. What's your favorite cold drink?
PETRA KVITOVA: Cold drink?
Q. Yeah.
PETRA KVITOVA: I think it's Coke (smiling).
Q. Tomorrow night, Venus and Serena Williams will be playing against each other in the third round.  When you think of all their matchups over the years, what's been the most interesting for you to observe?
PETRA KVITOVA: On those two?  Well, actually, to be honest, I didn't really watch matches when they played.  So I don't really know.
I know they played some finals, Wimbledon, which I do remember.  This is in my mind.
I do remember final of the Australian Open when I heard that Venus said it was unfair because she played against two (smiling), which is kind of funny, I think.
Otherwise, I think it's always great match if they play each other, definitely.  I think it's kind of very unusual.  Unfortunately, they are meeting pretty soon in the tournament, so it is how it is.
Actually, I'm glad I don't have a sister on the tour, because facing sister will be really, really tough.  So I can't really imagine how they have to feel when they are playing each other.
Q. Will you be watching tomorrow night, do you think?  And if so, what do you think you'll be looking for?
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, is depending if I do have anything to do (smiling).  If not, I gonna turn on the TV, for sure, and I think it will be great tennis.  I'm fan of great tennis.  That's it.
Q. How much do you know about Karolina Muchova?
PETRA KVITOVA: Not much.  I just probably saw her once in the locker room, so a little bit say hi.  Was good.
Q. It's been kind of a crazy few days with a lot of things being discussed and the Cornet and cat suits, whatever.  I'm just curious, like, in the locker room, do all of these things end up dominating conversations when you are talking to each other or is everybody going about their business?
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I'm not really spending time here, so I didn't hear the topic in the locker room.  But I know that in the Czech newspapers we had these discussions about Cornet, but I didn't read it, so I'm not sure how that end up.  It was a little bit crazy, to me, actually.  We always have a bra.  So it's like, okay (smiling).
Did she get any fine?
Okay.
Q. They apologized.  It's fine.  It's in the past.  I was just wondering if people were still talking about it and stuff.
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I don't know.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT