THE CHAMPIONSHIPS WIMBLEDON
June 30, 2018
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How would you describe the year and a half of development for you, the last year and a half, both physically and mentally to where you are today?
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I think it's kind of tough to describe it because it was kind of parts of the year which was better, then was like not that great.  Like everything happen in those few months.
I was big rehab of the hand to come back, just to play.  And since then, of course, many things happened.  I couldn't really imagine myself having six titles since I come back.  It was just something which I couldn't imagine, especially this year, since the beginning of the season.  Just played good.  I'm very happy with that.  Already satisfied.
It's been great few months.
Q. You alluded to the strong year you've had so far.  Obviously a former champion here.  Many are talking of you as a possible favorite for the title this year.  Is that a burden or something you carry easily?
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I've been hearing this every year I'm playing Wimbledon, so it's not really anything special.  I heard the same last year, as well, even I just played two tournaments.
I didn't feel that way last year.  Not either this year.  I know how the Grand Slams are this year for me.  I'm just here probably to try the best and kind of do the best result I can on the Grand Slam this year.
I don't really feel as a favorite of the Wimbledon anyway.
Q. In Birmingham I believe you said the reasons why you said the success has been coming on the tour level, maybe the last two slams you wanted it too much, maybe that was why things didn't go your way.  Coming into this tournament, one that you love so much, how do you not want it too much?
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I do, right (smiling)?
Yeah, I think, like, I'm kind of the player who loves to play those Grand Slams.  As I said already, sometimes I want too much, which I try to be more relax in Birmingham.  Everything worked perfectly.
I going to try to have the kind of same mindset here.  But obviously it's not that easy.  I know how great memories I have in my mind from the past years.  It will be little bit difficult, like, to play more free.  But I going to really try, I promise.  We'll see what happen.
But overall I'm happy to be here in kind of different situation than the last year, so...  I'm really enjoying it.
Q. Is there anything that you have to do in terms of your physical rehab or even psychologically that's different now than when you were on the tour two years ago?
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, of course.  I think everyone is just changing as a person on the court and off the court.  For sure there are different things which I have to work on than like two years ago, yeah.
Q. Can you give any examples?
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I think, you know, those years, it's just growing.  Every time it's just different things which you have to really work on.  I can't really be that specific.
Overall on the fitness probably I just try to be quicker, two years ago as well.  It's just kind of different because my body feels different, as well.  I do think I have a little bit more muscle than I used to.  It's just kind of different exercises as well.
I'm getting old, as well little bit, so there are some exercises which I need to be still kind of healthy, be in the shape.
Q. Do you have any limitations from the injury yet either on the court or off the court that you're having to compensate or is it 100%?
PETRA KVITOVA: It's not 100%, will never be 100%.  That's how I need to handle it.
I do have some limitation, sometimes that happen that I know is the limit there.  I'm just trying not to think negatively about, but still saying I'm happy I do have my fingers.
Yeah, I probably wish it's a bit better.  Overall, I'm very happy.
Q. Do you have a favorite spot at the tournament?
PETRA KVITOVA: If I do have favorite spot here?
Q. Yes.
PETRA KVITOVA: I do.  It's the Centre Court probably (laughter).
Q. Why?
PETRA KVITOVA: Why?  Well, winning it (smiling).  Good?
Q. What did you think of the tournament's decision to seed Serena Williams at No. 25 in the seeding?  How does it change the tournament for everybody having her be back in the field?
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I think obviously she has so many titles from Wimbledon.  She loves to play on the grass.  She knows how to play on the grass.  For me, wasn't really surprised that she seeded.
I'm okay with that.  I think that she really playing well on the grass.  I don't really have any problems with that.
Q. She wasn't here last year.  How does it change things, having her be in the field at Wimbledon?
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, actually I don't really care, to be honest.  I'm just here by myself, focusing on myself, not on the other girls.  For me, doesn't really matter who is in the field with me.  I do have my opponent for the match.  That's important.
Q. You mentioned earlier that Centre Court is your favorite place at Wimbledon.  What goes through your mind, what is the experience like when you are walking out to Centre Court to play a match?
PETRA KVITOVA: It's always been great to walking all the way to the Centre Court.  It's kind of special over there.  Always feels lots of nerves going there.  Especially when you step on the Centre Court, you see the beautiful stands, all the people in the crowd, it's just amazing.
You feel very special to be out there, that the people came to watch you.  It's just amazing to be in kind of historic place as Centre Court is.
Q. Is there some sort of message you try to tell yourself as you soak up the moment going to Centre Court?
PETRA KVITOVA: No, I don't think so.  I do have my troubles with myself, so I'm just trying to kind of be more relaxed, not normally how I am when I'm going to Centre Court.  So just trying to relax.
Q. It's clear that you love Wimbledon.  Is there anything about Wimbledon or England that you don't like?
PETRA KVITOVA: To be honest, when I was younger and I came to England, I couldn't really understand what the English people are talking (smiling).  It's kind of different accent.  Over the years, I got it.
Well, maybe the rain can be little bit less.  But overall I really like England, so...
Q. Hope you can understand my accent.
PETRA KVITOVA: I do (laughter).
Q. You put a picture up this week of you and Monica Seles on Twitter.  You used the word 'inspiration'.  Can you talk a little bit about the inspiration she's been for you.
PETRA KVITOVA: Of course, when that happened, I couldn't really think about the tennis.  But when the time came I could play tennis again, of course, she was one of the kind of inspiration which I had.
We both came very tough time to come back to play tennis.  It was just great to meet her actually.  It was for the first time.  We shake the hands.  It was just great to see someone who came in the kind of similar situation as me.  So was great.
Q. Talk about your first-round opponent.
PETRA KVITOVA: I never played her.  I'm playing on Tuesday.  I never practiced with her either.  I know that she has a great run in the Brisbane, in the beginning of the year.  Since then, I don't know much about.  Hopefully Jiri will find out some facts and will tell me some good tactics.
I think is the first round, the nerves will be there for sure.  I just need to kind of fight with myself every time.  On the other hand I'm very looking forward to play, so...  That's important, as well.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT