WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 18, 2018
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
K. BERTENS/P. Kvitova   
3-6, 6-4, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Was it a case of just too much tennis today?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I think all season all just too much tennis for me (smiling).   
But, well, I was pretty lucky to win the first set, which I really had to fight for those games.  In the second I was still down and I was still fighting to get back and I just couldn't hold the serve.   
My legs were pretty heavy.  I just couldn't really jump at all.  It was very, very tiring, the second set, and I just think that I couldn't really find energy in the third one.  I was just really trying, but nothing.   
 Q.  Was your hip bothering you a little bit?  
PETRA KVITOVA: No, it was fine.   
 Q.  Did you wake up this morning kind of knowing, whew, everything is feeling a little slower than it was yesterday?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Yep (smiling).  Well, yeah, I was tired already yesterday morning.  So I really had to fight yesterday.  And today, as you said, yeah, I just woke up and I just felt it's not the best.   
But after my warmup, was fine.  In the beginning of the match I felt okay.  But in the fifth, sixth game of the first set I started to feel it a bit.   
Yeah, I don't know how, but I won in the first one, but it was just tough to kind of continue in that.   
 Q.  This is your best result here, along with the 2012 semifinal.  Do you think you're going to leave here this week feeling satisfied that you played some great matches?  What are you going to take away from that?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I don't know.  I feel very exhausted, definitely.  But overall I think was a great run for me here .  My first match against Serena was unbelievable.  It was great.   
Mladenovic, next round, the conditions were pretty tough.  Yesterday was a big fight with Mertens.  And today was a fight, as well.  But still I think it's been great week for me.   
 Q.  The gas tank might be empty, but the game, do you feel like your game is where you kind of want it to be heading into, you know, New York?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, I think when I do have the energy, then the game is there.  Everything is connected, right?  The mind, the physical side, the tennis side.  It's everything together.   
Yeah, I do think that kind of my game is at a good level.  I think I showed it this week, as well, and all season, so I shouldn't be sad at all.   
 Q.  In order to do your best at anything, I think you have to be happy underneath, just personally.  You seem to just have that in your nature.  What do you think about that?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, I think I'm pretty happy person, hopefully (smiling).  I think I'm pretty positive.  Of course sometimes negativity came to me, as well.  But overall, I think that my parents are positive, as well, so I just do think I have it from them.  I think life is just easier then.   
 Q.  We know that you have struggled with the humidity in the past because of your asthma.  Yesterday you told us that because of your improved fitness that it's been less of an issue for you.  What was it like on court today in terms of the temperature, and was the humidity a factor?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I'm not sure if the humidity affect me, but for sure probably the hot weather a bit, yes.  I was sweating a lot.  It just took my energy, as well.   
It was just one of those things which wasn't really working today for me.  I can't really do anything with the weather, so it's just -- I can just do whatever I can with myself.  But all the conditions are same for both of us, and I just think that Kiki just did her best and she just played better.   
 Q.  Novak used to have asthma issues, as well.  He went gluten-free.  He says it helped him tremendously.  Is that anything you have looked into?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I have been on gluten-free, as well, because I did some tests and it was just showing me a little bit bigger number than I should have normally.   
But my tests now are pretty normal, so I'm not on the gluten-free anymore.  I'm not sure if that's affect my asthma, but overall, my asthma is getting better.  That's important.   
 Q.  Looking ahead to New York, you're not playing New Haven?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I play New Haven.   
 Q.  You are going to play?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah.   
 Q.  How do you get yourself ready?  Because you just said you don't have any energy left.  
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah.  Well, I do have two days off now, so that's nice.  I do play Aga in New Haven, which just the imagination of it is just exhausting, as well.   
What did you ask?  Sorry?   
 Q.  You're tired.  It's okay.  
PETRA KVITOVA: I'm tired.  Okay.   
Yeah, that's going to be great preparation for New York.  Yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT