ROGERS CUP
August 7, 2018
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
P. KVITOVA/A. Kontaveit   
6-3, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  What do you think helped you get over the finish line in two sets?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I think the last game was pretty tricky from my side.  Overall was a great match for me.  I'm pretty happy with my transition from grass to hard court.  It took me a while in the beginning of the practice sessions before coming here.   
With Ana, we play always pretty tough matches.  I lost to her in Roland Garros.  It was a nice revenge today.  I'm happy with my performance.  I think from the beginning of the match I felt good on the court.  I really enjoyed the stadium, which I do have the best memories in the Montreal.  It was great to be back and play.   
Yeah, I think I'm pretty satisfied.   
 Q.  What did you make of the conditions out there?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I think the rain helped a little bit the air today.  I didn't really feel that humid.  I think when we played longer, it was more hotter than it was from the beginning of the match.  I was pretty sweaty, as well.   
I felt it okay.  Yesterday or day before yesterday it was very humid, it was really bad, not like today.  It was much more nicer for us.   
 Q.  Considering all you've been through in the past year and a half, how does it feel to see you have been able to come back so strong?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, since Montreal two years ago, many things happened.  I was without a coach afterwards for a while, then the thing happened.  Yeah, so new things in the life which in the end of the day I'm very pleased that I get through how I did.   
I think from everything just learned the best from it.  I'm trying to take everything positively, kind of be mentally strong.  That's why probably I came back to play tennis.  I really put a lot of hard work to do the rehab, to play again.  Actually sometimes I do feel it's kind of miracle to play the tennis again, so...  I'm very happy about.   
 Q.  You had the same coach for about seven or eight years.  How is it different now?  
PETRA KVITOVA: It is different.  For sure with David, he took me when I was 19, so I was kid.  He teached me a lot of things.  We won twice Wimbledon.  He was there when I was No. 2 in the world.  He gave me lot of experience, lot of great things.   
But after a while, I mean, I just felt that I need to change.  It's took me a while actually to kind of get the space from David, from the coach, kind of see the things little bit differently, be open for the new things.   
It's different compared, for sure.  Jiri is the friend kind of coach.  He played.  He was 70 on the ATP rankings.  He sees little bit different than David was.  Both of them, they are great coaches in different ways.  Yeah, I'm just trying.  When you are older, you are just trying little bit different things than when you are young and to see what is the best for you.   
 Q.  Why have you not done so well in the Grand Slams?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, the season is great.  As I said already on the grass, even I will not win any match, I will be already satisfied.  That's true.  Even I didn't really play great on the Grand Slams, but I do think that I just put too much pressure on mean when I play Grand Slams.  I just want to play the best.  I'm just too tight and too nervous to play.  So probably is the mental side.   
 Q.  Either Karolina or Kiki next.  Thoughts on playing either of them?  Probably not easy either way.  
PETRA KVITOVA: You're exactly right.  Karolina, Czech girl, it's always a little bit special.  We played in Madrid.  She's a great player.  These top-10 player.  It will be fun to play her, for sure.  We do have kind of similar games, as Kiki does as well.  They are both serving very well.  They are both in the great form.   
I think that Kiki is really playing the best of her career so far.  She just really smashed everything.  So both of them are playing great tennis.  Will be fun, doesn't matter who I going to face.  But I need to be really ready for both of them.   
 Q.  (Question regarding Roman Hamrlik.)  
PETRA KVITOVA: Actually, know that.  My coach is a big fan of the ice hockey, so he knows everything about, not like me.  I'm girl, right?   
Yeah, I just met Roman actually in our player lounge.  It was fun to meet him.  He's a great guy.  I know he played here phenomenal, many years.  He loves Montreal.  It's nice to see different people, different athletes as well.  Of course, he were chatting with my coach.  Yeah, it's kind of nice to have those experience from the other athletes.  He's great, so it's nice he came to watch.  Hopefully he will be here for the next one.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT