ROLAND GARROS
May 30, 2018
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








P. KVITOVA/L. Arruabarrena
6-0, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. That must feel a world apart from your first round after the struggle there.  A big relief today?
PETRA KVITOVA: Yeah, definitely.  I'm happy I saved some energy compared to first round.
But on the other hand, I think sometimes it's really important to get, like, through a very tough match, even when I was in the first round, but I was, like, a game away from losing and going home.  So sometimes it's just more relief, as you said.
I played better today.
Q. You have played a lot of morning matches during this streak.  Has that always been your preference to play early?
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I like it.  I'm not sleeping long, so for me sometimes it's just better to go and have it done.  You have on off afternoon.  So it's always nice to get everything what you need, like a good treatment and massage and whatever you need to be ready for the next round.
Yeah, it's working pretty well so far (smiling).
Q. You're on a great run of form right now on clay.  What is the secret to your success this season?
PETRA KVITOVA: I don't think I have any secret.  I just worked pretty hard to get ready physically.  Not only for the clay.  It's been already from the offseason.  But obviously on the clay it's a little bit different, and I had a great preparation, as well.  I wasn't injured, so I really could go for it.  So far it's really working well.
I think the game has to be really changing a little bit on the clay, as well, and not really going that much for the winners.  Yeah, so far I'm really glad with that.
Q. When we saw you here last year, you were obviously quite emotional.  Can you explain what the past year has been like?
PETRA KVITOVA: It's been great, because I didn't really know if I will be able to come back and play tennis.  And from the last year when I was sitting here, many things happened.  Most of them was great things which happened.
So I'm really happy how everything worked, that my hand, it's great, it's not painful at all.
So that's really important.  I do have joy in myself and I really enjoying my tennis on the court.
Q. A few years ago you'd be sort of up and down.  You'd play great one week, the next week not so good.  But now you're so much more consistent.  Why?
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I'm not sure if that is very good consistent so far, because I lost in the second round in Sydney and first in Australian Open.  Then I won two tournaments.  And then Indian Wells and Miami wasn't really great.  So I still feel it's still up and down.
But so far in the clay, I don't really think that it's that bad, so I'm trying to be more consistent.  I think on the clay especially you need it, to be more consistent, to play more relaxed, staying in the rally, don't panic that much, and just try.  And that's what it's really working well for me right now.
Q. One of your mottos is "keep smiling." How important do you think it is to have a positive mental attitude, having that mental attitude in order to be ready to win?
PETRA KVITOVA: I think it's very important, for sure.  The mind is like 80% of the game.  You really have to believe in yourself.  Sometimes everyone has those troubles to do that.  I think that's human.  I'm not exception.  I'm very happy -- I probably was born already with a positive person in me.  So I don't really have that much troubles, but sometimes it's just tough.  I am negative, too, of course, but not that much, which is good.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT