MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 12, 2018
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








P. KVITOVA/K. Bertens
7-6, 4-6, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: First question for our champion.
Q. Where did you find the energy in the third set?  From outside you looked completely exhausted.  What was the mental talk you were having with yourself?
PETRA KVITOVA: I have no idea.  Well, obviously it was the final, so everything what I had in my body, I just tried to put it out, even if it was very, very tough today.  She played great tennis.  I mean, it was a big fight.  That's the final, so...
We both should be very proud of this beautiful final we played today.  Unfortunately, there have to be loser and winner.
But, yeah, I'm not really sure where I find it.  I was really trying eat banana, whatever I had, but...  I think in the third set, obviously every point was very, very important.  I was really thinking that I can't do it any more.  But then when you step on the shot again, you are just trying to hit the return, you play the rally, the serves, whatever.
It was pretty difficult for me to have a break in the third set and loss to my serve.  Mentally it was very difficult because I know how tough it is to break her.  Luckily the chance came for the second time, so it was much better.
The last game of serve was a great one, probably the most best one what I have.  So I was very pleased with that.
Q. How does it feel to be a three-time champion here?  It must feel really sweet.
PETRA KVITOVA: It feels sweet and weird as well.  I didn't really expect that, even the same time last year.  Even coming from the Prague last week, I didn't think I could be in the final, winning the trophy back-to-back.  My body is very exhausted, as well, so...  I'm pretty surprised that the body just handle it somehow.
Well, every title feels great.  Winning three times here in Madrid, it means something.  It's not really happening every day, so I'm very proud of myself.
Q. You didn't have any time to think about the Prague win, came straight here.  Obviously you have Rome coming up next.  How do you pick yourself up, if you pick yourself up and go again?
PETRA KVITOVA: Next question, please (laughter).
Q. That answers the question.
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, as I said, I'm pretty exhausted.  I need to pull out from Rome.  Was quick, right?  You made me sweat a little bit (smiling).
Q. With Kiki, one of the biggest stages she's played in.  Could you break down her game a little bit in terms of what makes her so good on this surface, difficult opponent in today's final.
PETRA KVITOVA: First of all, it's great to see her playing so well.  She's a great person.  I really like her.  It's nice to see her playing like that.
Well, last time played on the grass was a little bit different.  She improved a lot.  She loves to play on clay.  She won Charleston.  I remember when she's playing Roland Garros, always playing great.
Obviously she has a forehand with a lot of topspin, which is the opponent putting so much behind the baseline.  It's pretty difficult to make some pressure to her.  She can do whatever she wants.  From the forehand she can really move the players so well.  She has great hands, as well.  She can do a lot of slices, drop shots.  She has great volleys, everything.  I think when she's really on the net, she always win the point.
She can't really miss, which is pretty difficult playing on the clay.  I know those matches on the clay are really painful.  That's what I think she's doing.  She's finding her serve, as well, in the good moments.  Speed-wise she has great serve, with the kick on the second.
Yeah, I mean, she's moving really well.  When she's sliding to those shots, she's always putting the ball back, and I a meter behind the baseline.  It's difficult to do anything from those balls.
Q. With this title, you're also earning a spot on the list of the favorites for Roland Garros.
PETRA KVITOVA: (Rolling her eyes).
Q. Do you think you can win the French Open or that sounds completely crazy?
PETRA KVITOVA: It's crazy (smiling).
You know, I think I've been in semifinal one year.  Probably I can play well there.  But on the other hand I know how tough it is.  Winning Prague and here, it made me very happy.  On the other hand, a Grand Slam is a different story.  It's different attitude, different balls, whatever.
For me, I'm going there trying to play better than the last time.  I don't know, I don't want to put any pressure on me in a way.  I think there are maybe better players playing on the clay.  We'll see what happen over there.
Q. You're like 20 out of 24 in your last finals.  I think you've only lost four of your last 24 finals.
PETRA KVITOVA: I lost seven, I think.
Q. Just the last 25.
PETRA KVITOVA: Okay.  That sounds better (smiling).
Q. What is it that unlocks in finals for you?  Is there a sixth sense kicking in?  A trophy, I kind of want that?
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I was always saying that I love to play those finals because of the trophy.  That's what we are fighting all week, for the trophy.  It's always pretty close, but pretty far as well.
You meet the best players in the final, so it's always putting lots of -- what I wanted to say, I don't know - lots of effort to win.  My last three finals I played for three sets, which it's pretty tiring as well.
I don't know.  It probably was the same like today, or playing Muguruza in Doha, Buzarnescu in Prague.  It's always a big fight, which is nice, but on the other hand probably I loved it, right?
I don't know.  I just always wanted to put the best, saving probably for the final.  That's why I love to play tennis, so...  It's extra motivation.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT