ROLAND GARROS
June 2, 2018
Petra Kvitova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. KONTAVEIT/P. Kvitova   
7-6, 7-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please.   
 Q.  There was a lot of ups and downs, especially in that first set, going back and forth.  I guess how did you mentally navigate that match and what do you think made the difference in the end?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I think sometimes you do have a good day and sometimes you have a bad day, and for sure wasn't a good day today.   
But I tried everything what I could.  I really left there everything.  I'm pretty tired, I know.   
But pretty proud how I fought.  And even I didn't play great tennis today, I was still there trying.   
And, yeah, as you said, it was up and down in the first set, in the second set, in the tie-break.  The whole match was like up and down.   
She really didn't give me anything for free, so that's why it was, like, two hours.  So it was pretty tiring match.   
But, yeah, sure I'm disappointed losing in the third, but that's how it is.   
 Q.  It's been an impressive 13-match winning streak for you.  No wonder you're tired.  In terms of looking back on your clay court season, would you have ever thought that you could go on a run quite that dominating?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I couldn't really imagine myself playing so well on the clay.  So I'm very proud of myself.  I didn't really think that I will able to do what I did, winning two titles, playing good tennis here.   
So, like, for me, it was a great clay season.  And I'm pretty sad that the clay season is finishing, but, yeah, I'm pretty happy about my clay season.   
 Q.  When you woke up today, do you get a sense that maybe even in the warmup "I'm not feeling it," or is there any reason why you felt like you weren't playing your best today?  
PETRA KVITOVA: No, no, not really.  I think it depends on the opponent as well.  I know we had tough matches before, losing the first set in Madrid as well 7-6, but I was still okay.  Just sometimes it just doesn't go your way, which was today.   
But I don't really feel any differences.  I was nervous as usually I do.  So nothing really different compared to other days.   
 Q.  She made you miss a lot of the returns today.  She hit a lot of serves in.  She didn't ace you so much but you missed a lot returns.  Also in the first set, fourth or fifth game, you tried to move around and tried to get the clay off your shoes as though you were slipping a lot.  I wonder if those two have a connection.  In other words, did you have a tough time getting that first set going maybe?  
PETRA KVITOVA: You know.  As you said, she returned pretty well today.  But on the other hand, I didn't really serve better as I wanted.   
So I know that she's putting every return back, so that's why probably I was risking the serve.  Probably that's why I made some double faults as well.  My legs wasn't really jumping that high as I wished.   
But I don't really think -- yeah, I slipped, like, twice, but I don't really think it was, like, something which bothered me, like, for those games or for the set or match.   
It's a lot of credit to her.  Anett played great tennis today.  She didn't really give me anything.  So yeah.   
 Q.  You talked a lot about your love of tennis and you often talk about enjoying every moment on the court.  But after a game like today, what range of emotions do you go through and what do you then do to make sure that you bounce back stronger as you often do?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I think sometimes you just need to play by your heart, which I did today.  And I think that hopefully, actually, for the future it will help me, as well, building the confidence and everything what you need for the game.  It's one of the most important things in the tennis, which I think I did today, even I lost.   
Of course, I'm pretty sad, but, on the other hand, I'm very happy about everything in the life.   
So, yeah, I hope that that can help me to the grass and to the future.   
 Q.  When we talked in Madrid, you said there that you felt when you get to Paris you hadn't thought about it much but that the circle will close in a way a little bit.  How have seven, eight, nine days here been for you and how has it felt for you and how do you walk away from it, with what feelings?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, it's been great.  Unfortunately, only one week; right?   
But overall was great to being here healthy, playing best tennis.  I did better result than the last year, so I'm improved myself.   
But, yeah, it's been great tournament.  Of course, finishing pretty early for me, but it was a great match.  So yeah.   
 Q.  Not necessarily sort of linked to today, but how frustrating was it that you couldn't get onto the court or was it actually a relief that you came out to play on a day that was brighter and warmer than maybe starting late last night in the gloom and clagginess?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, I think it was much better playing today than yesterday for sure.  I think if we came to the court, I think we would play three games and stopped anyway.  So I felt it's much better today playing in the beautiful day, as you said.   
And, yeah, like, in the end of the day, it doesn't really make any differences, but was just better day and nicer day today.  I get a little bit of suntan, you know, as well so...   
 Q.  Just as you were walking up, Maria beat Karolina 6-2, 6-1.  I don't know if you saw the score, but what's your reaction to a result like that, especially there's a lot of eyes on Maria.  Just curious as to see how her form is and stuff?  Does a win like this for her come as a surprise to you?  
PETRA KVITOVA: It's not a surprise to me, actually.  I think that she's playing great game.  She had a great run in Rome as well.  She loves to play here.  Otherwise, she's not winning two times here.   
Maybe the score a little bit surprised me, but I think that she's on the good way back, and that's how it is.  I think a big win for her confidence, and yeah.   
 Q.  The next big challenge will be Wimbledon.  How much are you looking forward to that and what hopes and expectations will you set yourself before the tournament?  
PETRA KVITOVA: Well, you are too quick for me.   
 Q.  I get a lot of that.  Your hopes for Wimbledon?  
PETRA KVITOVA: I'm playing some tournaments before Wimbledon, so I hope that the grass will be great as always.   
But, you know, Wimbledon last year wasn't really great for me, so I try to do better, same as today, same as this French Open.   
And I don't know.  Hopefully I will be better.  I feel better.  That's the most important thing, probably.   
And we'll see.  I love to play in Wimbledon, so who knows.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT