SAUDI INTERNATIONAL POWERED BY SBIA
January 31, 2019
Alfie Plant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Great start to the tournament, 65 for you, 7 at the turn; is it a sense that it's a great start or is it a sense of I should have been better?  
ALFIE PLANT: No, it's a good start, really.  Pretty much flagged it all the way on the front nine, which is nice.   
 Q.  Tell us a bit about this golf course.  Of course you've seen it for the first time but all of the field have seen it for the first time.  What do you have to do well around it?  
ALFIE PLANT: You have to do well off the tee, and also, the greens are quite undulating.  So you've got quite a lot of bowls out there which if you can get in them, you can certainly have a few birdies.   
Yeah, probably driving and into the greens.   
 Q.  When you look at your card, obviously the back nine where you started today, scoring a lot better than the front side.  Is there a difference between the two nines?  
ALFIE PLANT: I think so, yeah.  I always thought the front nine was a little bit more challenging.  Just a bit longer.  You've got to hit a lot more good shots.   
 Q.  Playing on invitation this week.  Got to make those count.  You are so far.  It's a great start.  Does it put more pressure on you or just everything's a bonus?  What's the mind-set you have going into a week like this?  
ALFIE PLANT: Definitely my first few invites, there was a little bit of pressure, really.  But now, just got to get your head down and just got to shoot 25-under.  Don't have time to think or get nervous anymore.   
 Q.  What a great start, out in 28.  You couldn't have asked for a better start.  
ALFIE PLANT: Not at all, no.  I didn't realise I was on 28, actually, until I've just come in.  I've never shot 28 before on the front nine or back nine.  Enjoyed it.   
 Q.  And your putter was working well to get off to a good start?  
ALFIE PLANT: I was holing them close, actually.  I holed one from 30 feet early on and everything was inside six feet.   
 Q.  You did a lot of scoring on the back nine.  Would you say the back nine is easier than the front nine?  
ALFIE PLANT: I think it is.  It's a bit longer on the front.  Wind definitely got up through our back nine.  I think the front nine is a little bit more challenging but I don't know.  Might think the back nine is challenging, who knows.  But I definitely think the front nine is a bit more.   
 Q.  Do you think this golf course suits your game?  
ALFIE PLANT: Yeah, it does to a certain extent.  I feel like the bunkers are placed at nice distances for me to lay up to and not get into too much trouble.  It suits my eye, and you know, if you can get your iron play, go at the flags, you can make a good score out here.   
 Q.  How do you approach tomorrow after getting off to a good start?  
ALFIE PLANT: Well, I've got Mariah Carey tonight, so that should take my mind off things.   
I don't know.  New situation for me.  People hopefully I deal with it well and play nicely, but until I finish tomorrow, I won't know how I've got on, really.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT