VERIZON INDYCAR SERIES MEDIA DAY
February 2, 2016
Carlos Munoz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: We'll continue with our media availabilities with driver Carlos Munoz.   
A monumental season for you winning the Detroit race one.  Take us through the weekend, a grueling weekend, the only doubleheader on the schedule.   
CARLOS MUNOZ: Yeah, that was long time ago it seems, so I don't remember now.  I'm so focused on the new season.  Past is past.  I like to always focus on the future.   
It was nice to have my first win last year.  Not the way I wanted to win my first race.  Like Michael said, A win is a win in IndyCar.  I take it.  Hopefully this year is much more.  The main goal is to be fighting for the win in each race.   
THE MODERATOR: The 2016 season is coming up extremely quickly, with the addition of a couple new venues and the 100th running of the Indianapolis 500.  You've seen extreme success in the Indianapolis 500.  What would it mean for you to win the 100th running.   
CARLOS MUNOZ: It's the race everyone wants to win, the teams, especially the sponsors putting extra pressure on the teams to win this race.   
As a driver that have sit in here, they say the main goal is to win the 500.   
I want to approach is differently, as if it was a normal 500, not the 100th.  Putting pressure on yourself, that's not good.  I want to approach it like every other race of the schedule.  I've been approaching the 500 the same way I approach all the races because if you think it's a big race, you're going to put a lot of pressure on yourself.   
This year the show is going to be spectacular.  Going to Phoenix for the open test, the first time with the new kit.  Going to be really challenging, the first open test.   
THE MODERATOR: The Verizon IndyCar Series often boasts having the most diverse drivers in motorsports.  You are one of our drivers from Colombia.  Have you gotten to go back to Colombia in the off-season?   
CARLOS MUNOZ: Yeah, I've been going a lot to Colombia.  Unfortunately I couldn't go to Juan Pablo's race that he organized because I had an issue with my passport, my visa.   
But I saw so many Colombians.  The fans are coming so much to the race.  I remember last year there were more Colombians than Americans in Pocono.  You only see Colombian flags in Pocono.  More Colombians coming to the races.  The media is more active there.   
The only problem now, Colombia is not going through a good phase because of the oil price, the peso versus dollars.  But the good thing is the fans we have there are great, especially after Juan Pablo's win last year, the 500.  It makes the people that used to watch the races when he was in Formula One awake.  Me with my win in Detroit, as well, give new fans.   
Last year was four Colombians.  That's a lot of Colombians.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions for Carlos.   
 Q.  Aside from the obvious winning, what personal goals do you have for yourself this upcoming season?  
CARLOS MUNOZ: Personal goals, I love to go race by race.  I like to personally do the best job as I can.  Outside the track I've been training physically, mentally, working with my team, with my engineers, with my new staff this year.  A couple new people on my team.   
The team, as well, does a good job.  Try to win all the races, fighting for the win.  That's the main goal, be up front, be competitive.  At the end of the year, win a lot of races.  Of course I want to win the 500, but as well I want to be more competitive and to be more in front.   
THE MODERATOR: Carlos, thank you.   
CARLOS MUNOZ: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT