BOSTON COLLEGE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
April 14, 2018
EJ Perry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. It seems like you guys are, you're increasing the spread, how does that make you feel --
EJ PERRY: Yeah, definitely an emphasis from Coach to speed up the pace of play and use that to our advantage.  You know, it was fun today to get to do that.  I did that in high school, so it's a little bit -- but all the stuff we do is great stuff.  Coach is amazing with the offense.
Q. That first shot, Steve actually said -- do you feel like you got in a rhythm after that?  Seemed like you were more comfortable in that series.
EJ PERRY: Definitely, the first drive, I throw that out.  I mean, that was a tough one.  You live and you learn, right.
After that, it was good to just get the ball around, get it to our playmakers.
Q. Did you see on that play, the duck pass?
EJ PERRY: Oh, yeah.  So Elijah has been making plays all spring, especially deep.  He's big on letting a receiver go up and get it.  He saw one down in the left corner where he jumped over the guy, so I knew I had a match up one-on-one.  I tried to hold the safety as much as I could but Eli just made a great play.
Q. On that, you must have a lot of confidence in your receivers to make plays like that.  How has that developed this spring?  Is that new?
EJ PERRY: Definitely since I first got here, the amount of improvement we have at that position is unbelievable.  Jeff, Kobay, Mike, Elijah, they have all been making plays, especially this spring as a unit, they have really stepped up.  They rarely dropped the ball in spring and they were making plays, so they are definitely a big improvement this spring and it was fun to watch.  It was fun to get the ball to them.
Q. How is it working with Matt?  Do you feel like it's a competition aspect where you're pushing each other on the practice field?
EJ PERRY: Yeah, everything's a competition.  It's really fun.  Matt's a great kid and good friend of mine.  You know, we talk and we learn from each other and it was fun to come out here and both play well today.
Q. What's the experience been like getting so many reps?
EJ PERRY: Yeah, for my improvement and Matt's, and Dennis's.  It's helped us tenfold to come out here and get so many reps every day.  I don't know what the number is or whatever it is but it's awesome.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT