NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: CARDINALS v METS
October 15, 2006
Jeff Weaver
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. How much difference is your preparation than normal for pitching on three days' rest? 
 JEFF WEAVER:  Well, I guess it's more just, you know, you minimize kind of your workouts in between as far as bullpens and stuff go, just try to get some flat work in.  You know, you can't really go out there and give a full effort in the bullpen session, so you don't bounce back on a guy that usually takes two days off before he throws his bullpen. 
 So just having one day off and then throwing a little bit and then, you know, one more day off to start. 

 Q.  When you look at the game tomorrow night, it will probably be colder than what it has been for you here at home, how much does affect you because back in June, you were pitching and it was 95-plus outside? 
 JEFF WEAVER:  Actually it's kind of refreshing right now.  It's not too bad.  It's not overly cold.  You've just got to work up a little sweat indoors before you get out there so you know you're nice and warm before you get out there and throw. 
 You know, overall, once you get out there with the intensity and the adrenaline that's flowing, you don't really even pay much attention to the temperature. 

 Q.  Do you have much experience pitching on three days' rest, and if you do, do you remember how you did? 
 JEFF WEAVER:  That's a good question.  I can't recall too many times I've thrown on three days' rest.  Maybe down the stretch a couple years ago with L.A., might have had to do it once or twice. 
 But I can't recall it bothering me at any time.  I've been pretty fortunate to have a resilient arm and pretty loose.  So like I said, I don't feel like there would be any hindrance on three days'. 

 Q.  You came up with the Detroit organization, wanted to get your thoughts about them winning the pennant. 
 JEFF WEAVER:  There's only a couple of guys left from when I was there.  They did a pretty good overhaul. 
 I'm really excited for a couple of guys such as Inge and Maroth, in the clubhouse guys like (Jim) Schmakel and Tyson (Steele) are good guys, those were the guys that were there in the toughest times, and Maroth with 20 losses a couple years ago.  I'm just happy that they get to enjoy the complete turnaround and I can only imagine how happy they are now and how high they are flying right now.  It's a special experience, especially when you know how tough it is.  And I've been in the struggles and the 100-loss season, so you know, it's great to see, and I'm happy for the couple of guys that are still there that have been through the tough times. 

 Q.  When you look at how you've pitched here versus on the road, what do you think about that split, do you think it's been more at home because of the first few games when you first got here when it was really hot out versus some other factors or has it just been -- 
 JEFF WEAVER:  No, I just think it was I had a couple starts at home when I first came over and I was still struggling a bit.  I had not found my niche and still was battling mechanics or mind thought or whatever else. 
 But you know, I had a couple good starts here at the end at home, and you know, it's just one of those things where I think that for whatever reason, just matched up better on the road or whatever it may be.  You know, baseball is kind of strange like that. 
 But you know, I felt comfortable the last couple of starts here, and I don't think the weather or anything had to do with it.  I think it was just more individual what I was going through. 

 Q.  Is there any one thing that you can point to that's a key to your turnaround this season? 
 JEFF WEAVER:  Well, I think there's a couple things.  Obviously just coming over here and having a fresh start.  Getting the opportunity to put those struggles behind me and start fresh and getting back to the National League, where I knew I had success prior years. 
 With La Russa and Duncan, from day one, we sat down and they just really made me feel comfortable as far as not wanting me to do too much to change anything.  They were happy with the way I go out there and compete and they like the way that I had thrown against them when I played against the Cardinals. 
 You know, when you hear those things from the manager and the guy you're working with, Duncan, pitching coach, it just makes it easier to make that transition to a new team and just to find yourself and believe in yourself and, you know, you always have those question marks coming over to a new team when you don't start out quick and do well, wondering what your team is thinking about you and things like that. 
 But once I started putting together a couple good starts and gaining a little momentum and kind of getting that trust with your teammates, it just kind of gradually evolves into, you know, finally getting back to being the type of pitcher you are with the right mindset and the approach and all those things kind of come together.  It's an organization that is built to win, and when you become a part of something like that, you don't want to be the loose piece.  You do whatever you can to get back to the person that you know you can be to help the team win. 

 Q.  Bronson Arroyo talked about this during the All-Star Game festivities:  He said coming over from the American League to the National League, the American League is just a much tougher league to pitch in at this point.  Do you agree with that? 
 JEFF WEAVER:  Well, I mean, obviously there's differences between the leagues.  I mean, American League is a lot more aggressive from top to bottom.  Guys can hurt you.  National League is a little bit more speed, contact guys, a couple power guys in the middle to even it out.  But there's just a little bit more strategy and approach.  I think it's more of a situational league where, you know, one pitch, one bat, one pinch-hit, one relief pitcher can make the difference in the game. 
 The American League, it's just, you know, you're out there until you get your pitch count and if you can keep the guys to a minimal amount of runs, then you've got a chance to win. 
 It's just a little bit different.  I think there's more power pitchers in the American League, and more finesse and sinkerballers and things like that in the National League. 
 But, I mean, there's no doubt the American League is a more offensive-structured league for sure. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT