ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 17, 2018
Willie Taggart
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
WILLIE TAGGART: It's a good week to be back playing again.  We had a bye week and been off and had to deal with some things that was kind of out of our control but we had some good practices.  Our guys have been focused and locked in and looking forward to going out and performing for our homecoming this week.   
 Q.  I hope everybody is okay down thereafter the hurricane?  
WILLIE TAGGART: Yes, sir.   
 Q.  Just talk about Ricky Aguayo, what's wrong with him?  He's missing some big kicks at the end of the game.  Is he just not focusing on getting his practice in or what does he need to do to get better to his those game-winning field goals?  
WILLIE TAGGART: I think he's just got to get out of his own head and just kick the ball like he's capable of.  He's shown that he can do it.   
You know, I think he is kind of like our entire football team, just in our own way mentally.  If he can get out of his way mentally, if our football team can overcome our mental problems right now, I think we'll be better overall, but I think it's more mental than it is physically and what he's able to do and just coming down to relaxing and not trying too hard and just kick like you normally do.   
 Q.  Talk about Wake Forest's run game.  They ran over 200 yards against a good Notre Dame defense.  What do you have to do to stop that running game?  
WILLIE TAGGART: We have to get our guys to the ball when they do run the football.  That's something they do and they do it well.  We've got to get guys to wrap up.  Can't be any one guy tackling.  We have to game tackle to get their backs down.  They have a really talented offensive line, which is a big reason why they are running the ball like they are doing.   
So it will be a challenge for our D-Line and we have to get guys the ball to wrap up.   
 Q.  Were there certain things you were looking to improve upon offensively during this bye week?  
WILLIE TAGGART: Yeah, just wanted to, again, try to shore up some things in pass protection, and then in the run game, make sure we're doing things that our guys can do and not asking them to do some things they can't.   
But just doing more; being better fundamentally.  I just felt the first half of the season, fundamentally and technically, we were not as good as we needed to be and we really focused on those things throughout the bye week.   
 Q.  What do you think offensively could be better if the fundamental improvement gets better?  
WILLIE TAGGART: Well, I think we can run the ball better, if we're better fundamentally and technically.  Not just run the ball, throw the ball, anything we want to do schematically, it can be there and it will be better if we are better technicians.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT