ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 3, 2018
Willie Taggart
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: We're joined by Coach Willie Taggart.   
COACH TAGGART: Just got off the field from practice.  Good practice.  Our guys had two really good days of full-padded practice getting prepared for this Miami game.   
Big rivalry that we're all excited for and looking forward to traveling on the road and going down there competing against a really good football team.   
 Q.  I'm just kind of wondering, where are you in kind of getting the offense at the tempo you want it at?  
COACH TAGGART: I think personally the last couple of weeks we hadn't been -- the tempo hasn't been what we want it to be.  So we've got to make sure we get back to doing the things that we say we're going to do and what we're going to be.  But the tempo hasn't been the way we want it to and a lot of things factor into that.  One of so many changes up front and hamper you things with those too.  But it's not been where we wanted it to be but we're headed in that direction.   
 Q.  And how much of that has been holding the offense back reaching the potential?  
COACH TAGGART: I think that's probably what makes the offense go is the tempo, and we haven't been as consistent with it and a lot of it has to do with us with penalties and things we do to ourselves and then execution.   
So we just gotta stay true to who we are and let our guys keep working the kinks out and eventually it will roll and get going.  It's coming, slowly but surely.   
 Q.  Did you see certain things offensively in that win last week that kind of gave you hope that things are starting to come around there?  
COACH TAGGART: I think it starts with one not giving up any sacks in that game.  That's a big-time improvement for our guys.  We threw the ball well in that game.   
I will say in the Louisville game, again, our tempo was not what we want it to be.  I think part of that had to do with the first half that we did too.  So we've got to keep working on it.  It's something our guys are getting accustomed to and we just can't get away from it as coaches as well.   
A lot of these guys learn what we're doing and how to do it effectively in games.   
 Q.  Yesterday a few Miami players were poking fun at the backpack and the securing the bag thing that you all do.  And I wondered if that's something that qualifies as bulletin board material or if teams going into rivalry games don't need bulletin board material?  
COACH TAGGART: Yeah, I don't think you need any bulletin board material for a game like this.  Picking at our back, we had our own fans picking at our bag.  So those things don't matter to us.   
It's a bag that we like and we appreciate and we're proud of and we're going to continue to be proud of it.  So we don't need any of that, just go out and play ball.   
 Q.  I wanted to see, since we spoke to you on Monday if there's any update to the status of two offensive linemen, one Landon Dickerson and, two, Derrick Kelly.  Are you optimistic you'll have one or both of those guys this week?  
COACH TAGGART: Yeah, I'm optimistic that we will.  Both guys are still working.  Landon came back and played last week.  And, again, a lot sorer than what we anticipated him to be after that game.  Derrick Kelly is getting back a lot quicker.  Practiced a little bit today.  And he's getting closer.  So optimistic about it.   
 Q.  How important is it if you can't have both of those guys against Miami's defensive line, obviously a very aggressive and successful defensive line so far this year?  
COACH TAGGART: I think you always want to have your best players with you.  So to be able to get them back and play always will be helpful, especially for us where we're trying to go with our offense.  But if they're not, then the guys behind them gotta be ready to play, just like they would.  So I know they will be and, again, it will be great to have them and it will be great to have them back to have all of our guys back.  We've been beat up there.  So it will be great to get anybody back right now.   
 Q.  Is Miami's offense markedly different with Perry rather than Rosier.  And if so, how?  
COACH TAGGART: I won't say it's totally different.  I don't think many coaches get away from what they do just because of a quarterback.  I think you can see with the new kid in there, he's a little more athletic and smoother in things that he do.   
And you can see those guys brought a little spark to their offense with him being in there.  But he's a special talent and he has the offense going.   
 Q.  You grew up watching Florida State football since you were a little kid.  What's it like being part of this game Saturday because I know you watched all the classic games between Miami and Florida State throughout your childhood and being a young adult?  Just talk about you being part of this game this weekend.  
COACH TAGGART: Exciting.  There's not many rivalries that's like this game and I know growing up watching Florida State and Miami, it always came down to who is going to win the championship.  The national championship came down to that game when I was growing up.  You can only imagine what the rivalry was like then.   
But you've got two storied programs that have very talented young men on their team and they dislike each other and it will be one exciting, physical, talented football game being played on Saturday.  And I'm excited to be a part of it as a coach leading the Seminoles out there to go against the Hurricanes and can't wait.   
 Q.  Talk about that big interception at the end of the game against Louisville.  How big was that for your defense to step up and get that interception to seal the win after you drove all the way down and scored that winning touchdown?  
COACH TAGGART: It was huge, because it gave us an opportunity to get on offense and go down there and score.  So I thought it was big for a lot of reasons.  One, our guys stepped up and took advantage of opportunities that came to us and didn't give up in that game.   
And then for our offense, you know for our offense to be struggling all year and get the ball back there, we needing the touchdown and actually go down and get that, I think it says a lot about our offense and the things that they can do when they really focus on things we need to do.  So I thought it was big for our team in both offense and defense, in particular.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT