FLORIDA STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
December 6, 2017
Willie Taggart
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
WILLIE TAGGART: Hello.  Thank you.  Thank you all for coming out.  Haven't won a ball game yet, and I've got a big fan base.  Really, really excited to be here.  Really excited to be the head football coach here at FSU.  Wow.   
I want to start off by just telling everyone don't be afraid to chase your dreams, and I say that as a young man growing up in Palmetto, Florida, who played football every single day -- every single day.  If you wanted to find me, I was on somebody's field with a football and doing it every single day.   
And growing up in my household, if you wasn't a 'Noles man, you probably wasn't staying in that house.  Again, if you were living in my house, you'd have thought everybody in that house graduated from FSU, and none of us did.  But it goes to show you just what it meant to me growing up and our family and how we felt about FSU.   
I think, growing up in Florida, you have to grow up in Florida to really understand and know what that -- what the meaning is of being a Seminole here in the state of Florida.  And I know there in Palmetto, in Bradenton area, there's a lot of 'Noles.  We all grew up just wanting to be 'Noles.   
I can remember playing and going to high school.  My high school coach Joe Kinnan is a graduate of here, at Florida State University.  I remember Pat McNeil was a guy that played at Manatee who came here and played.  I wanted to come here and play.  I guess I wasn't good enough to get a scholarship to play here.   
But no matter where I went -- I went to Western Kentucky University and graduated from there and had a great career and really got started there.  But no matter where I went, the Seminoles were always a part of me.  I rooted for who I was with, and I rooted for the Seminoles until I went to South Florida, and that was the first time I had to root against the Seminoles.   
I'll tell you a story about that.  You know how people say blood is thicker than water.  Not in my household.  We're playing the Seminoles -- I'm at the University of South Florida, and we're playing the Seminoles.  My brother, diehard 'Nole fan, and we was talking about the game, and he's like, I'm sorry, bro.  I love you, but I can't go against my 'Noles.  You've got to be kidding me.  But that's just how I was.   
Again, as you start your career, you always have dreams and goals.  It's pretty amazing how life can put you in places where you need to be.  There's different ways of getting there and crazy ways of getting there.  All those years I wanted to be a 'Nole and supported the 'Noles and never gave up on it, and now we're here today, and now I'm the head football coach of Florida State Seminoles.  You talk about chasing a dream and always wanted to be a part of, and I can officially say I'm in.  I'm in now.   
(Applause.)   
I'm really excited.  Before I move on, I'd like to say thank you to President Thrasher.  Thank you, Stan.  And I'd like to say thank you to Ed Burke for allowing me to fulfill a dream and being here.  I really, really appreciate that.  I promise you, I won't let you guys down.  So I'd like to thank you.   
I'd also like to thank Rob Mullens, President Schill, Mr. Phil Knight, and Pat Kilkenny at the University of Oregon for believing in me and giving me the opportunity to come out to that great university and be a part of that.  Really, really great people in Eugene.  It was a really, really hard decision for me because the people were so great.  I had a great boss, great support, and it was hard.  It was really hard because of the players.  I had a great relationship with my players, and I wouldn't be standing here if it wasn't for them.  So like I said, thank you to them and appreciate them.  Again, it wasn't an easy decision.  It was really tough on me.   
To be honest with you, just the other night -- not last night.  I was flying back here.  The night before last, when it really came to me that it was probably something I needed to do, I had a profound moment in my life as a father.  Excuse me if I get a little emotional.  But my wife and I were sitting there and talking about this decision, and my 16-year-old son came in and out of nowhere -- I didn't expect this, but he said, Dad, I know you're struggling with this decision, and I know this is your dream job.  He said, you always tell me to chase my dreams and don't let anyone get in the way of it.  And he said, I don't think it's right for me or anyone else to stop you from chasing your dreams.  And he said, I don't want to leave, Dad, but if you're going to chase your dream, then I'm going to ride with you.  And that meant a lot to me.  It was like me talking to him.  It was like he was my father talking to me.   
But it was also gratifying, and I just -- I was so proud of him just how he articulated those things to me and just made me follow my own advice that I gave him.  But I just thought that was big time for my wife and I.  We just sat there and cried, like wow.  I know this is hard for him.  It's hard for my family just moving once again, and they went out to Eugene and fell in love with it, to be quite frank.  It was hard.   
I'd like to thank my wife Taneshia.  I'd like to thank Willie Jr., Jackson, Morgan, for being with me and riding with me.  I know I've taken them all over the place chasing a dream, and I appreciate them so much because they've been my rock and my motivation to get up every day and do a great job.   
So thank you to all.  Thank you to everyone that's been a part of my journey.  I know I missed some people.  My mom.  I know a lot don't know, but I lost my father, and I know right now he's looking down on me.  Lost him in the summer.  I feel like I am him now.  I'm here now because of my dad.  I know he's up there in heaven and he put a good word in to the Lord and said, please get my son back closer to home and be around his mom.   
I had a great job at Oregon, and, again, it was tough to leave, but this was like the perfect fit for me.  And all the things that I would like to accomplish in this business, you don't always get the perfect fit of the right things that you want.  But for me to be back home, to be around my family, to have an opportunity to win a National Championship -- it don't get any better than that.  Like I said, I'm so, so excited to be here.   
Can't wait to get on the road recruiting.  Don't get me wrong, I love you all too and love being here, but there's a lot of work to be done, and we've got to make sure we do that.   
(Applause.)   
Speaking of recruiting, there's an early signing day on December 20th through the 22nd, just around the corner.  So like I said, there's a lot of work to be done in a short amount of time.  I plan on tonight to get out and get to working and try to salvage this recruiting class.   
Again, I know, growing up, guys wanted to be a 'Nole.  So I know there's a lot of 'Noles out there that want to be here.  We're going to go out and find them and find the right guys, the right guys that are going to come here and do the right things.  We're going to hold each and every last one of those young men accountable to doing the things that they said they were going to do when they came here, and that's being the best football player they can be and the best student they can be and having the best character that they can have.  That's what we're going to judge our guys on.   
You've got to have two of those three things in order to be on our football team.  You can't have one and be on our football team.  If you have two, we'll work with you with whatever you're struggling with to get you up to par.  But you've got to have great character, be a great football player, be the best that you can be in the classroom.  That's what we're looking for here.  I think, if we're doing those things, winning will take care of itself.  Winning a championship will take care of itself because we'll be doing those things, and that just will be part of our life.  So looking forward to finding young men like that to come in here and being a part of this great university.   
I think it's a unique situation for me coming in here with our football team still playing and practicing.  They've got a chance to go to a Bowl game, play in a Bowl game, and I get a chance to evaluate, which is pretty cool.  Not often you get to do that when you're taking over a job.  Usually when you're taking over, it's probably because someone got let go.  But in this case, it's a little different.  We still have coaches here working, and I get a chance to evaluate the coaches, the players, and everything.  So I'm looking forward to doing that as I'm in and out of town recruiting and getting back and watching practice.   
So what's our plan going forward?  To work, work, work in everything we do, and we've got to make sure that this time next year, we're not on the outside looking in when it comes to the ACC Championship.  We're not on the outside looking in when it comes to playing in the College Football Playoff.  That's on each and every last one of our players, coaches, and anyone that touches our football team to make sure that we're living our life each and every single day to make sure we accomplish those things.  I know they're lofty goals, but that's the expectations here at FSU, and we embrace those expectations.   
I can tell you all this in closing, the three foundational tenets that we're going to live by with this program, and it's kind of how I live my life and how I run our program no matter where I've been.  That's we're not going to blame anyone.  We're not going to make any excuses.  We're going to go out, and we're going to do something.  And that's what we're going to be about.   
I appreciate every single one of you so, so much.  And I look forward to getting to know every single one of you in this room and remember every single one by name.  That will be big time.  But I am so, so thrilled and excited to be the head football coach here at FSU.  Go 'Noles.   
(Applause.)   
So I'm open for questions.  Questions, I know they're out there.   
 Q.  Coach, you've come into other situations that have been losing programs and have had to rebuild them.  Just how unique is this situation with a program where a lot of the foundation is already in place?  
WILLIE TAGGART: Like I said, it's different for me because this is not a rebuild.  This is more of a realignment, if anything.  Got to realign some things to get it going again, but it's exciting knowing that you have some really good football players in here.  I'm excited about the challenges that are in front of us and bringing a group of people together for the same common cause, which is to win a championship.  And I'm excited about doing that.   
 Q.  I was wondering if you had a chance to meet with the team yet.  What were some of your early impressions?  Did you give them any flack for those games over USF a couple years ago?  
WILLIE TAGGART: Actually, I didn't give them any flack about that, but I did meet with the team.  It was good.  I talked to the guys about some of the expectations.  I talked to them about how pleased I am to be their head football coach and how pleased I am to be a part of their team because, at the end of the day, it's their football team.  It's not my team.  It's their team, and I'm excited to be a part of that with them and to help them get it back to where we all know it should be.   
 Q.  Before even fielding a team, you've already made history in terms of you are the first black full-time head coach at Florida State University.  Is that something that you've thought about?  Is there pressure with that title?  Has it sunk in yet?  
WILLIE TAGGART: Something I thought about -- I didn't necessarily the full-time coach because Odell is the first African American coach here.   
(Applause.)   
But I've thought about it but not much.  I just figured pretty much, for the most part, wherever I go, I'm probably going to be the first African American coach.  So I really didn't think about it as much, but I do understand my role, and I do understand a lot of people are counting on me to do well.  I appreciate that, and I take pride in doing a good job.  Hopefully, I can do more than do a great job and get the things that they want to get accomplished.   
 Q.  I wanted to know -- you've obviously been a member of this community for a while.  Now you're the head coach of this football team.  What is it like to you to be the CEO of this football team right now and to be the leader of such a great community?  
WILLIE TAGGART: It's awesome.  It's awesome.  I'm living in hog heaven right now.  Right now it is great.  We're still undefeated.  So I am enjoying it.  I'm going to enjoy every single moment of it.  But like I said, I take pride in my job, and I know the expectations here, and that's how it should be.  And a big reason for taking the job, you want that.   
So I'm really ready to get embedded into the community here in Tallahassee and throughout the state of Florida and meet a lot of our boosters and alums and just rally the troops and get them back and get them back around and get going and get Florida State back to where I group up and seeing Florida State.  It was a great time, and it was family.  It was football.   
I remember Coach Bowden speaking one time, and those things that he talked about was faith, family, and football.  As I became a head coach, I implemented a lot of those values within our football team, and it's helped everywhere we've been.  And you need it.  You need those things.   
So excited to be the man, and I want to continue the winning tradition.  I know the last two coaches we've had here won a lot of ball games.  So I expect to go out and looking forward to trying to win a lot of ball games like they did.   
 Q.  Hey, Willie.  Matt Baker with the Tampa Bay Times.  
WILLIE TAGGART: Matt, I know you.  Yeah, I know you too, Joey.   
 Q.  You know that guy better.  You touched on the early signing period.  Obviously, you've had transitions in the past.  How much more difficult and complicated is it to be in this role now with this early signing period now two weeks away?  
WILLIE TAGGART: It's tough because, again, you've got to start back over to building relationships, and the young men want to know who's going to coach the football team.  So a short amount of time, which is going to cause a lot of mileage, whether driving -- the beauty of being at FSU, you can drive a lot.  You don't have to get on planes.  I'm going to try to get out and see all of our guys that's committed to us and share my vision and philosophy here, and it's hopefully something that they want to be a part of as well.   
But I will say this.  Most kids want to be at FSU, not necessarily because of the coach, but because they want to be here at our great university.  Now, being a good person and a good coach will help getting those young men, but I think a lot of them really wanted to be here, grew up wanting to be here as well.   
So it's difficult because of the relationships you have to build, which is so important in recruiting, and you have such a short time building those relationships.  So it's a challenge, but I look forward to it.  I look forward to all challenges, but really looking forward to this one.   
 Q.  Willie, if you could talk a little bit more about struggling with this decision, wrestling with the commitment you made to Oregon, and only staying there for a year before deciding to come here.  
WILLIE TAGGART: It was tough because what you just said, only been there for a year.  Things were going really well there.  I mean, in every aspect it was going well.  The people you met and the relationship you built -- it's always tough when you have to end that.  Just think about it.  Being able to meet Phil Knight, I mean, he's an icon, and I was in awe when I had a chance to meet him.  It was like wow.  He's a great person and has a great mind and really smart, but he really loved the University of Oregon.   
Rob Mullens, who I thought was an awesome AD and was great to work for, and for him to give me an opportunity, my first opportunity to coach in the Power Five, you feel bad because you feel like you let him down.  And I know I did.  Like I told him, I'm sorry that I did let him down.  Like I told everyone there, I'm sorry.  I apologize.  The timing was probably not right, but it's never right when it's time to leave.   
Again, like I said, talking with my son made me realize a lot, and I can let -- I guess probably my biggest problem, I'm always worried about other folks and making other folks happy.  This one time where I get a chance to fulfill my dreams, I couldn't just rely on that.  Again, it's just a perfect situation.  I wasn't going to leave it just for anything because it was perfect and my family loved it there and had everything going the right way.  But to be closer to your family and still have an opportunity to coach in the Power Five and still have an opportunity to win a National Championship, which is a personal goal, it was tough to overcome.   
Again, it don't always work the way that you want it to, but it is what it is.  I know they'll find a great coach there.  They have great players there.  They'll do a great job there.   
 Q.  Willie, you coached against Florida State.  You recruited against Florida State.  How hard was that to recruit against Florida State, and how much are you looking forward to recruiting for Florida State now?  
WILLIE TAGGART: It was hard because we knew we probably wasn't going to get them.  But we had some practice recruiting them.  And then it was tough because you're playing against some really good football players.  We played against them, and I think South Florida, we were playing against those guys, and we had some really good football players in South Florida, they were just young.  So we were playing with some babies against some mutants out there, and that was tough.  But as an opposing coach, you go out there and think, geez, how do they find guys that look like that?   
But, again, found a way to get on the right side of that train.  So I'm excited.   
 Q.  You had the experience of recruiting at USF, and now you're obviously here at Florida State.  Does that -- are you going to be focusing more on the state of Florida in your recruiting?  Can you talk about the importance of the state of Florida?  Obviously, you have that background, but is that going to be a focus for you on the recruiting trail?  
WILLIE TAGGART: Absolutely.  It's the best football here in the country in the state of Florida.  So you have to.  And we're located here, so we need to put a fence around the state of Florida and try to keep our best football players here.  But we also are a national brand.  Florida State University don't have to settle for anything.  We can go after the best of them nationwide.   
But we're going to take care of home, and we're going to go out and try to get the best football players that we can to come and play for us because that's what our school deserves and that's what we expect.   
 Q.  Coach, how important was your relationships with Mr. Wilcox, Mr. Thrasher, when you got to meet them and got to know them, in your decision?  And then also, what kind of things did they tell you about the commitment to athletics, facilities, things like that for the future?  
WILLIE TAGGART: It was really important.  Like I said, I had a good thing going at the University of Oregon, and the communication and relationship and the vision from the president on down was right in order.  Everything was like it's supposed to be.  That's one thing I was looking for when I met with them is making sure that everything was right in order and the vision was shared and everybody was following the plan to get there.  There's a plan here, and there's a vision, and there's a plan, and we've got to work our tails off to execute that plan and have the patience to see some things through.   
I know there's a lot of plans going forward on what we can do and what we're going to do and excited about them.  But I think you've got to prioritize things and make sure you're doing the things that you need to in order to get to where you're going.  I think everything is in order.  Everybody is locked on the arm, and we're going to get there.   
 Q.  Coach, with the early signing period, how important is it to put together a staff quickly?  And how do you go about doing that with Florida State still having coaches on board for the Bowl game?  
WILLIE TAGGART: Again, I don't -- I think coaches make a big impact with recruits, but, again, I think the university usually sells itself.  Recruits do want to know who they're going to play for.  We're in a unique situation.  We still have coaches here.  I get a chance to evaluate those guys and see if any of those guys are going to be a great fit to be a part of the staff as we go forward.  So that's part of it.   
The thing I have to ask the recruits is trust me.  I'm going to get a really good coach in here to coach them up.  But more importantly, which is really important to me, is that not only do I get a good coach, a good teacher, it's really important that we get good mentors in here to help our young men out.  That is really, really important to me, and it's going to be hard for you to be on my staff if you're not a great mentor to our players.   
 Q.  First, Coach, welcome to Tallahassee.  
WILLIE TAGGART: Thank you.   
 Q.  Can you walk us through a little bit from the beginning, your initial contact when someone reached out to you about the Florida State position being open and kind of what that process was like the last few days.  
WILLIE TAGGART: I think it was last Thursday that I got a call and said that FSU was interested in me.  Saw it on social media and everything.  They had it way before anything was done.  They wanted to know if I was interested in them, and that was on Thursday.  Then I heard from Stan on Sunday, Sunday night, and wanted to catch up with me and meet with me.   
But leading up to that, what it was like, it was horrible, to be honest with you, because nothing had happened and I had to sit in front of the media and address questions and answer things I couldn't necessarily answer, at least the way that they wanted me to because there was nothing there to be -- there was nothing there.  So we went through practice.  I had to deal with it with our players.  I was out recruiting, and I had to deal with it there.   
The best way to do it is to be open and honest, and I was always open and honest with our players, which was the most important thing to me, open and honest with Rob and letting him know, and just went about my work.  I was working at the University of Oregon and was recruiting and practicing, getting ready for a Bowl game.  We had our banquet on this past Sunday.  Driving home, got that call.  Wow, here we go.   
So I met with Stan and President Thrasher and Ed -- I think it was Monday.  And it kind of went from there.  Had some decisions to be made.  It was tough.  But we're here now.  So that's kind of how it went.   
 Q.  Willie, how did your family become Florida State fans?  Did you have a favorite player or one of those Florida State teams growing up that you really liked more than others?  
WILLIE TAGGART: I think, again, when you live in the state of Florida, when you're born and raised here, it's hard not to be a 'Noles fan, and it's hard not to grow up wanting to be a 'Nole.  Again, that's what it was like there in Palmetto and Bradenton.  We wanted to be 'Noles, and everybody, we watched the 'Noles.  When football was on, we were watching them.  Then we watched everybody else, but we had to watch the 'Noles first, the 'Noles and the Bucs.  It was the 'Noles and the Bucs.  That was what it was like.   
Some of my favorite players, of course Primetime.  Of course Primetime.  You think about Charlie Ward.  He played quarterback.  I played quarterback.  I wanted to do -- he was doing the spread before anybody else was doing the spread.  He was a guy everybody wanted to be.  I think about Derrick Brooks, when Derrick was playing.  And you think about Warrick Dunn, all those guys.  Peter Warrick is a good friend of mine.  We played against each other, but we grew up in the same neighborhood.  Seeing those guys come here and play great football.  Anquan Boldin.  Just watching all of those guys was big, even Danny Kanell back here playing.  Chris Weinke, you know those guys.  It was great seeing all those guys play.  There's plenty more I can name.   
It was just great watching all of those football players and seeing them do great things here.  Really great watching Coach Bowden all those years, and all the winning he did here was pretty impressive.   
 Q.  Willie, I think a lot of Florida State fans are excited about the type of offense that you run.  How would you describe what they will see this season?  
WILLIE TAGGART: You're talking about the Gulf Coast offense, huh?   
 Q.  I am.  
WILLIE TAGGART: Joey, you know about the Gulf Coast offense.  How would I describe it?  Lethal simplicity.  Lethal simplicity.  We want to score fast and often but be really simple when it comes to teaching our players, not confusing them on what they need to do but allow our guys to go out and just play football and play fast.   
And score a touchdown.  We all like touchdowns.  I really like explosive plays.  You see a lot of explosive plays.  We like those.  I'm not one of those guys, unless it's the four-minute situation that we like those long drives, I like to score fast.  So as long as we can score fast and often, it's a good thing.  We take pride in doing that.   
 Q.  Coach, you talk about this job being a dream.  Just wanted to know if you had a chance to kind of walk around the facilities, take it all in.  And when you walk out on the field now, I mean, this is your domain.  Just how does it feel?  
WILLIE TAGGART: It's great.  I walk through the facility, and it's going to take me a while to get around there and figure out where I'm supposed to go.  Someone is going to have to show me.  I'm going to have to call someone when I come in in the morning to meet me.  It was nice walking around, but it was really, really nice walking out on the field this morning and walking to the 50 yard line and just like yes!  You made it.   
(Applause.)   
And then you see your picture up on the big Jumbotron, and my name was spelled right.   
(Laughter.)   
Yes, it's just right.  So it was surreal.  It was great.   
I'm excited and fired up right now, and I really don't think it's going to hit me until a little later on, especially when I get around to players a little more and as I start to build relationships.  But it's going to be fun.   
 Q.  Coach, I'm sure there's been some sleepless nights during all this.  How was last night?  Were you at peace with this decision?  Were you excited?  What were your emotions last night?  
WILLIE TAGGART: I was.  After I told our football team, which is the hardest thing.  Those young men back there did everything that I asked them to do, and they believed in everything I said to them.  So it was really, really hard to tell them what I was going to do, one of the hardest things.  It was hard to tell Rob and tell Phil because those guys believed in me too and they gave me an opportunity.  So that was really tough.   
But once we got all that behind us and I got home and talked with the family and kissed everybody and got on the plane, it was no looking back.  You've got a job to do now, and you're there.  Let's go.  I sat on the plane for about 20 minutes just soaking it all in, and I said, I guess I'll look at the back of my eyelids for the rest of this trip.  So went to sleep and woke up, and we're here.  Couldn't sleep looking forward to this.  So this is where I'm at.  I had my coffee, so I'm good to go.   
 Q.  Coach, you mentioned your family relying on your son to make this big decision.  Who else did you speak to maybe outside of your family to help you make this decision?  Specifically, did you walk to a Deion or Peter Warrick or any of those guys?  
WILLIE TAGGART: I talked to Deion.  I talked to Deion briefly.  I talked to Derrick Brooks, who I knew, especially being back at South Florida.  I talked with Corey Fuller, who I knew from recruiting and had a chance to know him.  But people I really talked to, I cherish, and a big reason for my success is the Harbaughs.  You know, Jim and Jack and John, they're my rock, you know.  When I need something that I'm struggling with, I can give them a call, and, again, they don't tell me what to do.  They just listen.  Whenever I'm off the phone with them, I feel like I can accomplish anything that's out there.  So talked with them a lot as my mentor.  Talked with Dick Tomey, another guy I'm close to and another mentor for me.   
That was pretty much it.  Again, whenever there's something tough, I'm always calling the wise man Jack Harbaugh -- or Jim.  Jim just keep it really simple and direct.  Get to work.  But it was -- they make you feel at ease, and I felt at ease after making the decision.   
 Q.  Willie, obviously, you had your own team to look after last year, but just how much of Florida State were you able to look at, and have you taken a look at the team the past couple days?  
WILLIE TAGGART: No, I really haven't because I was focusing on our football team at the University of Oregon.  I think one game, I saw like the first half of the Boston College game, but that was the only game that I saw.  And then I -- but I haven't had a chance to really watch the football team yet, but I'm planning on doing that while I'm on the road recruiting.  I get to watch a lot of that.  I get to watch the practices, see it live.   
But it can't be about what we've done in the past.  It's got to be about where we're going now and making sure we understand the expectation and we're doing everything every single day to live up to those expectations, whether it's in the classroom, in practice, in meetings, in the community.  But we've got to get back to winning and winning at a high level, and everybody's got to understand that, and we've got to do it the right way.   
 Q.  You mentioned your offensive philosophy.  What about defense?  What schematically and philosophically are you planning to bring here?  
WILLIE TAGGART: Defensively, same thing, lethal simplicity.  Again, not a complicated guy.  I want to keep it simple, but I want to be aggressive on the defensive side of the ball.  Have I decided whether we're going to run a four-three or a three-four?  No, I haven't decided that.  I want a -- excuse my language, but I want a damn good defense.  I want our defense back to where our Florida State defense has been in the past.  Excuse my language, but we were a bunch of bad asses back in the day.  We were some war daddies.  People feared -- you think about Derrick Brooks, Peter Boulware, those type of guys.  We want to get back to those days.   
You got to get guys that feel the same way.  You've got to recruit guys that want to be that way.  We want to be physical.  We want to be fast.  We want to be in attack mode at all times and making plays.  But it's got to be that way, and you've got to find -- you've got to have that personality, as a defensive coach, that coaches that way, but we want to do it all in the right way.   
So that's what I'm looking for in our defense and making sure we have a D coordinator that understands that and passionate about doing that and going to make sure that he holds everyone accountable on that side of the ball to being that way.   
 Q.  Coach, I'm curious as to what you've learned and taken with you from each of your previous stops at Western Kentucky and South Florida and Oregon and maybe how you've changed and evolved over the years because of them.  
WILLIE TAGGART: I think the biggest thing is and the similarity is all these kids want to be loved.  All these kids want discipline.  All these kids want structure.  And when you touch the minds and the hearts of these young men, they'll do anything for you, and they truly believe that you care about them and want what's best for them.  They'll do everything for you.   
And not just the players, but the coaches, the managers, the trainers, the janitors.  Anybody you touch, you treat them the same way, and you get to know them.  When you get it that way, it's just tough not to be successful.  So learning that every single place I've been and developing that and understanding that it's not just the football team.  We have one big family here in this athletic department, one big team that we've all got to be a part of with high expectations.   
 Q.  Coach, you already have mentioned your offensive and defensive philosophies.  Do you feel as though Florida State already has the players in place to do what you want to do, or are you going to have to go out and get some more?  
WILLIE TAGGART: We do.  We have players here.  I know we have players here, and I've seen it, again, from afar.  You got to recruit.  Don't get me wrong.  You've got to recruit, and that's every single year.  Our guys have to understand my job is to go get guys to take the current players' jobs.  That's my responsibility, and it's on our current players to keep their jobs.   
So if we're not recruiting better than what we have, then we're not doing a good job with it.  It's going to be great to be able to, again, evaluate these guys and seeing what we need to do.  I know defensively we really have some guys over there that can get it done no matter what system you have.  And the same thing offensively.   
And the beauty of it, again, you look at your personnel, and you cater your offense or defense to your personnel and make it go.  I think that's the beauty of the offense.  Don't care what you are, especially at quarterback, whether you're pro style or a dual threat, our offense can work with either guy.   
I do know we want some fast guys.  We want some guys that can stretch the field and guys that can make guys miss in space.  So I know we have some of those guys on the football team.  I know we have a pretty darn good running back, a couple of them.  So that's pretty good.   
Thank you all very much and have a great day if you want to.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT