NHL DRAFT
June 24, 2016
Clayton Keller
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Thoughts on going to Arizona?
CLAYTON KELLER: It's just awesome to be a part of such a great organization. Just so thankful to be picked by them, and just really excited and ready to get started. 

Q. Talk about No.16 on that team. 
CLAYTON KELLER: Yeah, Domi is a good player. I think I can pick any number hopefully, and I think I can work with it.

Q. Were you surprised they picked you?
CLAYTON KELLER: A little bit, yeah. Just I had a good meeting with them during the combine, and we had good talks and just getting to know each other, then made a good relationship. Yeah, I was a little shocked, but I'm just so thankful to be picked. 

Q. Going as high as you did, was there a conversation in terms of where you're going to go next year?
CLAYTON KELLER: I think a little bit, but right now B is my top choice, and I don't see that changing. I think that's a great spot for me. Coach Quinn is a great guy, and I don't think you can go wrong with that. I think he's one of the best coaches in obviously one of the top programs, so I'm excited.

Q. David Quinn said this weekend that he thought the biggest thing you could do was fill out. How much will the weight help you?
CLAYTON KELLER: Definitely. I think that's probably the biggest thing for me is just getting stronger and putting on a couple pounds, and I think that's what can make me a dominant player in the NHL some day.

Q. With respect to going to BU, there's three more guys that could go tonight. What does that say about BU as a program, and does that attract you to a program where you can go play with players like that?
CLAYTON KELLER: Definitely. I think I was the first one committed, so I did a little bit of recruiting on Kieffer and Chad and Jake, so it's just good to be‑‑ to have relationships with those guys and obviously get them to go to BU. It's a great spot, and I don't think anyone turned BU down. It's such a good stop. 

Q. Talk about your height at 5'10" as opposed to other players in your position at 6'1", 6'2", and how you've had to change your game to fit into that position a little bit?
CLAYTON KELLER: Definitely. I think I've always been a smaller guy, so I think I've always had to prove myself, and just my hockey IQ and my skills are at another level. I try to compare my game to Patrick Kane. He's probably the same height as me, and I think I can be as good as him one day. 

Q. How has this whole thing been for you, the guys from St. Louis?
CLAYTON KELLER: It's awesome to have so many St. Louis guys be picked. We all grew up playing on the same team together and were coached by Mr.Brown and Mr.Tkachuk, so it was such a good group of guys, and I'm just so thankful for them coaching me, so it's great. 

Q. You have been together since you were six years old. How special was this day?
CLAYTON KELLER: It's unbelievable. I mean, it's hard to describe, but I'm just so thankful to be picked and just ready to get started. 

Q. How much can you benefit from a guy like (inaudible)?
CLAYTON KELLER: Yeah, he was awesome. He had great drills, and in scrimmages he'd make us pass five or six times before we could shoot and just little things like that. He always taught us to be unselfish and play as a team, and I think that's why we had such good success at that age, and we were probably the best team for three or four years, so it was good. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT