U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2019
Alex Fitzpatrick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








(In progress.)
ALEX FITZPATRICK: Ended up drawing him in the second round and sort of -- he's quite a chatty, talkative guy who I'm really, really good friends with.  I think for this whole round I was sort of talking to him quite a bit; too much probably for when I sort of lost a bit of the concentration.  That's his sort of game, so he end up winning 3 and 1 or 3 and 2 or something.
I felt like if I had been focused and not talked to him as much I probably would've come out with a better result.  That's what I think I learned this week.
Q. Is it in some way playing No. 2 a little easier in match play because you don't have to worry about what everyone else is doing, just your opponent?
ALEX FITZPATRICK: Yes and no.  I think you always have the option where you can pull out driver.  Obviously you're on playing the one hole, I guess.  But you almost still don't want to be stupid and just throw a hole away.
I think I hit sort of three or four 2-irons today just to make sure I sort of kept putting the pressure on him to make it in the fairway.  That actually forced him to pull out driver.  If you miss the fairway it's almost bogey automatically.
That's sort of -- when I got to 3-up I sort of kept hitting the 2-iron and just keep putting pressure on, and I think that sort of developed.
Q. What was the best advice your brother gave you about trying to win this thing?
ALEX FITZPATRICK: Just be yourself.  Be confident in your own game.  I'm more than capable of going and winning, so...
THE MODERATOR: Alex, was there anything that when you were carrying the bag for Matthew in '13 that stuck with you from his success at Brookline that you implement when you're playing in events this big?
ALEX FITZPATRICK: Not really.  I've got the memory of a goldfish, so can't really remember loads about it from five or six years ago.
I think from looking at highlights on YouTube, stupid as it sounds, his attitude towards hitting bad shots and making stupid mistakes was sort of staying calm and not letting your opponent see that you're getting angry.
I think that's a big thing.  I sort of took that I guess to my game and try my best not to show too much frustration for bad shots.
Q. And you saw there was three Wake guys that got into the 16.  Were you kind of watching and see how Cam and Parker do?
ALEX FITZPATRICK: Absolutely, yeah.  I played a practice round with Kyle Sterbinsky and Cameron before the tournament.  Sort of once you get to university the golf team sort of become your family.
Always watch out for what my mates are doing, whether or not's in this week or if they're playing a tournament like the Western Amateur for example.  Eric Bae did well in that.  You always watch out for the scores.
Yeah, I was really pleased to see they got through.  Thank God they're on the other side of the draw though, so...
Q. Last year making it to the quarterfinals you did some pretty good things on the international stage.  Talking the way you are now, seems like there is a determination in you that you want to go the next step.  What do you have to do to make sure that happens for you?
ALEX FITZPATRICK: I think recently my game has developed quite a bit.  I definitely think since last year I've become a bit more of a player rather than just a good hitter of a golf ball.
I think my game has always been up and down.  I've always felt like I can definitely make it to the next step.  It's just sort of trying to fix the rough edges, I guess.
I think there is more determination to win as I've got older.  Going back to the comment about just being friendly, I think that's one thing that I have to get rid of.  People, a lot of people told me that's probably holding me back a bit.
So that will be something I'll work on.  Hopefully that will be a key thing to the future really.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT