ENSURE CLASSIC AT ROCK BARN
October 3, 2010
Fred Couples
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Bad break on the rough on the second shot. Was that sitting up a little too high?  
 FRED COUPLES: No, actually it's probably a good break to have a good lie. Just hit more club. I thought a 4-iron might flutter, and I thought the front of the green was worse than in the middle of the green. I caught it pretty good off that lie. It wasn't like an explosion, but I hit it pretty solid and it just went all the way to the back. If it was hit on the green, it might have been okay, but chipped it a little strong, and then I watched Morris putt, and I just hit it a little too hard and went through the break.   
 But I'm sure Gary played really, really well. I don't know what he shot, a bunch under.  
  
  Q. 61.   
 FRED COUPLES: So that's throwing it at you. But I was pretty sloppy. I made bunch of bad bogeys and then I birdied a few coming in, and I hit it in the water on the 3rd hole, which was I wouldn't say a very difficult shot. Three-putted the 2nd hole from quite a distance. And I just got it around.   
 I mean, it's a course I'm going to make a lot of birdies on, but I made a couple too many bogeys obviously.  
  
  Q. Just talk about the week up here, kind of a home event for you now.   
 FRED COUPLES: Yeah, I know, it's a great course. I liked it from the start. Any time you can drive a car up and down to a tournament you're lucky. There aren't many. The only other one I've done it is at the Bob Hope from where I live in Palm Springs.   
 It's a great week. Jim and his staff do a great job, and I'd like to still be out there playing Gary, but it's a little disappointing. To be honest with you, I played well this week, but not anything where you end up looking back and saying I got a bad break. I hit a lot of really bad shots. I just made a bunch of birdies. I don't know how many, but I bet more than probably everybody else, but I made way too many bogeys.  
  
  Q. Do you think that carries over, though, into next week?   
 FRED COUPLES: Well, you know, I couldn't care less about next week to be quite honest with you. Not being funny; next week -- if I would have won this week, it doesn't carry to next week. I'm not really that kind of -- I don't look at it that way. I'm very disappointed, and to be honest with you I've got to figure out how I can get it -- early in the year I was making very few bogeys and I was putting pretty good. This week I putted fantastic, but I hit so many scrappy shots that you're just going to get it in the wrong spots and make bogeys.   
 But it was a good week. I'm highly disappointed, but I'll get over it as soon as I get about 20 miles down the road.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT