U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 29, 2010
Fred Couples
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. (No microphone.)
 FRED COUPLES: You watched it, would you have thought Tom and I would have shot the same score? Wow! He was awesome. And he didn't get many breaks and I was very mediocre and made a couple of great up and downs, just like the last hole out of the sand. But, you know, it was fun to play, it was challenging. 
 I think the score I shot is phenomenal, I would have taken 70 before the round started, but the way Tom played, that was really fun to watch, he never missed a shot. Maybe hit one drive in the bunker and made bogey but it was pretty much watching him. 
 I was very, very mediocre. I don't know what else to tell you. I can tell you I birdied three holes in a row, three good holes. 
 4, I hit a very good wedge in there, made a 3-footer for birdie. 
 And the next hole the par-3 I hit a bomb. 
 And the next hole I hit a 3 or 5-iron to 10 or 12 feet and made that. What else can I tell these people that weren't out there? 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 FRED COUPLES: No, you do. I played last week on a very good golf course, I made one birdie the first day and one birdie the second day and today it looked like I wasn't going to make many birdies either. 
 And I hit a shot around the trees on 16 and made birdie. Then I made a bad play on 18, putted from off the green, 3-putted to shoot one over. And I whipped it into a bush on No. 1, took an unplayable and got it up and down 100 yards for bogey and played the second hole okay. And 3-putted the third hole and I'm thinking "Wow, this is not good!"
And I got that stretch and that was really the whole round. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 FRED COUPLES: You know, I just -- I don't -- I just don't feel good, but this is how it is and I've played better than this feeling this way. I'm not, like, sore, I'm just -- you know, the longer I stand, and then go hit a shot, I don't have any chance. The flow went pretty well and the last hole we waited for the group, you know, and that's about what I get out of it, standing there for 10 or twelve minutes. I hit a 5-iron that was horrible, but I feel okay, I'm just very stiff and I've been like this for a long time but when you play a course like this you can't get away with mediocre tee shots. And I did drive it fair, fair, but nothing -- you know, to shoot 70, that was miraculous, the 70 was a pipe dream. 

 Q. Were you thinking at any time in your head, I'm playin' at home, this crowd is great? 
 FRED COUPLES: No, I was thinkin' if I make a couple more bogeys I'm going to shoot 75 and there were some holes out there, I was thinking, 75 that wouldn't be that bad! That's what I was thinking. 
 There are a lot of people out there, my brother, nieces, and nephews, I see 'em, but I can't say much to them, because everybody and their brother is going to want to come over and say hi. So that was never a problem, it's just -- it's a hard course, you know, when you go out there you've got to drive it really well -- again, I'm going to say it, Tom -- that was how to play a U.S. Senior Open course. He was unlucky finishing up, I think he had a putt on 7 to go 3-under, and he missed it from 4 or 5 feet, and he bogeyed 8 and 9 by not doing anything poorly. 
 The shot he hit on 9 was going to be one of the best shots of the day but it just didn't stop, it trickled up. But for me, nothing I can tell you. I've got to play better tomorrow, because if I hit it like this tomorrow there is no way I can shoot 70. 

 Q. Did you ever consider going to the Senior British or not because of your back? 
 FRED COUPLES: No, I'm with RBC. They sponsor the Canadian Open, but this was a big tournament for me and I was never going to go to the British Senior, so I was never going to do that, and to be up for 6 hours for a 7:45 round, that's tough. 
 And I've been there before, and we were laughing about how late he can stay up today! He's go the to stay up to 8 or 9:00, because now he doesn't play till 1. I don't know what the hell he's going to do if he gets up at 2 or 3, but he's tough. Everyone out there is -- I didn't do it. I'm glad I didn't go. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 FRED COUPLES: He's one of my favorite all-time players so I watch him -- I could have been 9-under or 9-over, I still watch what he does. He hits the ball really, really pure; there is a different sound. 
 I do that sometimes! I haven't done it lately but he honestly never missed a shot. He may have made a couple of bogeys but it was because the course is so hard, but he plays really well, so it's fun to watch. It's a learning experience. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 FRED COUPLES: No, I've said -- I could say it all day, it was great. Standing on the 9th green looking back, it looked like there were 12 or 14,000 on the 9th hole, and we'll get 'em tomorrow, too, and they'll stay around today and watch the other top players play this afternoon, and it will be fun tomorrow. 
 This is -- actually it was a beautiful day to play golf with the dampness. I don't ever want to say it wasn't hard, but this is -- out of every day I've played in the morning, this would be the easiest round I had. It was that good. Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT