MONTREAL CHAMPIONSHIP
July 3, 2010
Fred Couples
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  PHIL STAMBAUGH: Fred, 66 today, puts you right back in the golf tournament at 9-under par, a few general thoughts about the round overall, and conditions were much different. Talk about that.
 FRED COUPLES: Yeah, well, first I think the conditions were a little bit like the Pro-Am, where it blue pretty hard. Yesterday was a so-so round with not any huge blunders but not a lot of great shots and today was a much better day with probably a couple of -- the two bogeys I made on the second hole and the 8th hole, were not real good. 
 But I made a lot of birdies in between there and hit a lot of really good shots. So that was really the big difference from 3-under to 6-under. And so I'm right back in the tournament, right behind John Cook. I can only do what I can do, and today was a better day to move myself up the leaderboard and have a shot at winning tomorrow. 
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: Take us through your round.
 FRED COUPLES: I started out, had a short birdie putt on 1 and didn't make it. 2, I hit a pull way down the left side. I don't know might have hit the cart path, and I hit it over the green from there and blocked a chip shot and made bogey on a 3-wood and a sand wedge hole. 
 Turned around, birdied the next hole and then hit a great 3-iron on No. 6, par 3, to about four feet and made it for birdie. 
 Hit it on the 7th green to about 30 feet and made it. 
 Then on No. 8, down the middle of the fairway and had 110 yards, I didn't think I could get a sand wedge there and I hit it anyway and I pushed it and dribbled down into a bunker with not much of a bunker shot and made bogey there. And then started to hit the ball very, very well and I birdied No. 9, made a three-foot birdie putt, and No. 11, made about a 20-footer. 
 On 14, I knocked it on in two, and 18, hit it to about ten feet and made it for birdie. 
 6, I hit a 3-iron to four feet. 
 3, I hit 7-iron probably eight feet. 

 Q. How was the crowd?
 FRED COUPLES: There were a lot of people out there, which is always fun for us. This is a phenomenal event, as good or better than any of our big tournaments we have played in, and if you go by gallery, I'm pretty sure they are going to break a record here with people out here for the week. And I just think that says a lot for the area and Mr. Corey, as I said, he knows what he's doing and ease has put a lot behind this and the people are coming out, which is great.
 Like I said, when you go play -- I know they are following most -- a lot of them were following my group around early, and I teed off a couple of hours early, but on the 9th hole, a lot of people, and on the back nine, a lot of people behind some of the greens, on 16 and 18, just packed. It fun. It's fun to play in front of a lot of people. 

 Q. The double-bogey on 18 -- 
 FRED COUPLES: I don't want to double-bogey 18, but you know, here is where we're at. I played okay first day. I played much better today. And now, by being a little rusty, you know, we'll see how I play around or near the lead or if I ever get in the lead. 
 And you know, when you're a list rusty, some of the shots don't quite -- are not as easy as they are when you're free wheeling and playing good every week. That's what I was kind of getting at. 
 I know tomorrow, if I come out and play a really good round, I'll have a shot the last two or three holes. Today I was on the front of the 10th green and didn't get it up-and-down. You know, on 16, I had about an eight-foot birdie putt and 15 I had an eight-foot birdie putt. You can get yourself in position if you hit good shots and tomorrow we'll just see how I do. 
 Tomorrow is going to be -- whoever has the hottest rounds usually wins, but in this case there will be a few hot rounds. So it may take -- I don't know, we have a lot of holes left. John if John Cook is 10-under or 11-under. I may have to shoot 6- or 7-under again tomorrow. Probably more. 

 Q. You say this is a great tournament; what are some things that make a tournament a great tournament?
 FRED COUPLES: There's two things that make any tournament a great event -- three things. Players, you have to have a very good feel. I know Tom Watson isn't here, and Nick Price, but it's a very good leaderboard, and the other two things would be a golf course and this is a very good golf course, and the people, the galleries that come out and support. 
 So, you know, we play some events that don't get as many people like this; they are still great events. This is just going to be one of the better ones because they are going to have 25,000 people out here every day. That's a good crowd. 
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT