MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2008
Fred Couples
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. The cut line and your streak in jeopardy, what do you think?
 FRED COUPLES: For sure I didn't know what it was. It looks like it's going to be 3, so I definitely needed that putt on 18. But it's been a long time, and it's been fun.

 Q. You had a great eagle opportunity at 13 that came up just short. Talk about that putt. 
 FRED COUPLES: Well, it was a 40-footer, and it looked pretty good, but it rolled down there and that was the first birdie I made for the day. I just didn't make enough birdies. I had a few good putts but not -- I never had many like I had on 18. I didn't have many 15- or 12-footers for birdies. You're not going to shoot good scores if you're not making a few birdies out there because there's a lot of hard holes and you're going to make bogeys.

 Q. You were a champion here in 1992, and the streak ties the record. That probably says as much about you as a player and your ability. What does it mean to you to have that durability and success here?
 FRED COUPLES: Well, the reason I have that streak is because I won in '92, which was the big honor, and to make the cuts, to be quite honest with you, I don't consider that great of a deal. Playing well in this tournament I think is my goal. And even as well as I played last week, you know, I think I set my sights a little high yesterday and I went out and I struggled and I tried to hit better shots than I could, and I went from 2-over to 3-over to 4-over, and you're kind of done. 
 So going out today my goal was certainly to make this cut. I don't think I'm going to make it, but I don't know anyone who goes to a tournament where they're hoping to make the cut. I'm not going to make it; I'm kind of disappointed in that. But I'm really disappointed with the way I played. 

 Q. Can you talk about how hard you were grinding the last couple holes, knowing what you had to do?
 FRED COUPLES: Well, you've got to grind -- if you're 10-over you want to grind because you don't want to shoot 15-over. The whole thing is a grind. I mean, I'm sure Tiger is out there, whatever he's shooting, even par, and grinding, and Phil at 5-under is grinding. And when you're 4-over or 5-over, you're just trying to hang in there and give yourself a chance. 
 I hit two great drives on 13 and 15, and I had 7-iron and a 5-iron, and the 5-iron I hit well over the green but made a nice birdie putt. 
 You're not going to play Augusta very good if you're just birdieing two par-5s. That's not what you want to do. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT