MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 12, 2014
Fred Couples
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Can you describe how the course has changed over the years to you?
FRED COUPLES:   Has changed?   Well, the course is longer.   And the cast of characters are still kind of the same.   They're all talented and really good players.   I just think if you're asking outside of golf, for me it's just a lot of fun.   It feels likewhen I came my first year, it's always exciting.   This year is no different.   I'm playing pretty good golf and I have a shot tomorrow of shooting some silly round to maybe win, but it's going to take a 65 or 66.   But you never know.

Q.   You've improved on your Saturday average. 
FRED COUPLES:   My average went down.   I'm not smart enough to know what 75, 77 and 73 is, but it wasn't bad.   I actually‑‑ I played okay.   I hit right out of the box two really good shots on No.1 and it got to the back edge where I didn't even have a putt.   I putted the ball 20 feet left of the hole.   And I didn't think I did much wrong there.
And then I hit a couple of poor shots and made bogeys.   But I made some birdies and hung in there and made a nice par on 18. 
As they say, it's a hard day playing at 2:15.   The golf course is really firm and very tough.   And the scores‑‑ I mean Matt Kuchar, Jordan Spieth, and I'm looking at Blixt, all those guys are playing really, really tough.   To shoot 71 or 70 today when you're near the lead is a really, really good score, and you should be proud of that.   And obviously some of the early guys set the pace with some good scoring. 
But tomorrow you're going to see, someone is going to come from 2‑over to 3‑ to 4‑under early in the round where maybe it's a little softer.   But the afternoon‑‑ 2:30 tee time it was very, very hard.

Q.   What were your options from 17?   I know‑‑
FRED COUPLES:   Over the green? 

Q.   Yes. 
FRED COUPLES:   Not to leave it short and have it come back at my feet.   I didn't want to make a double there.   And I felt like I hit a really, really good shot and almost made the putt.   But that's the best shot I hit all day.
From 170 I hit an 8‑iron and it flew up close to the hole.   It just went further than I thought.   And I just‑‑ I thought it might stop, but no chance.   But that was a little weird.
Then I made a lucky par on 18.   It kind of worked out. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
FRED COUPLES:   Well, you know, he's a special‑‑ he's a qualified player at the age 20.   So when you're that kind of a player you can play well anywhere.   I mean he's such a great putter.   He hits the ball long and high.   But for a 20 year old, you know, he's pretty savvy.   Not much bothers him. 
He's got a great caddie, Mike, who they‑‑ I played a couple of times with him some at the Presidents Cup.   They work well tomorrow.   And not much bothers Jordan.   Tomorrow, obviously, is going to be a really, really hard day to try to win this, but he's well qualified to do it.   He's a top player.





1





'            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT