TARGET WORLD CHALLENGE PRESENTED BY WILLIAMS
December 9, 2005
Fred Couples
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
FRED COUPLES:  I had a nice little streak in there.  To play this course without a bogey, you've got to get a few breaks.  I didn't leave many out there, so I'm thrilled with 4 under and I've got a long way to go.  Campbell is lighting it up.  It looks like a lot of us are playing for 2nd, 3rd or 4th right now.
Q.  What do you think when you look up on that leaderboard and somebody is double digits under par on this golf course?
FRED COUPLES:  Well, it's very impressive, first of all, and yesterday's round was phenomenal.  I think today he's 3 under or 4 under, so he's very consistent and very good.  You can't do anything crazy.  It's not like you can start shooting for every one of these flags because that's how you make bogeys.  You just try and do it one hole at a time and hopefully catch him here or there.  I'm eight or nine behind him; I just don't see how I can physically catch him.
Q.  Do you like this golf course?
FRED COUPLES:  Yeah, it's beautiful.  I've played here a lot of years, played the Shark Shootout here and now Tiger's tournament, so I know it pretty well.  It's a pretty place and they sure take care of it, so it's a great spot to be.
Q.  You must feel pretty good about this year.  A lot of good things could have happened, but you've played well.
FRED COUPLES:  Yeah, I'm happy with it.  I went to see Butch in October, and he's got me working on one thing, and I feel like I can picking up a little distance and hitting the ball much more solid, so I'm going to go see him again and take it one clinic at a time, as they say.  I can't fit too much in this little brain.  That was a good thing.

I'm just trying to get through the ball a little better and start to    as he says, pound it, not steer it.  I think next year if I stay healthy and keep playing, I hope to do better, but this was a good year.
Q.  There's no slowing down in you, is there?
FRED COUPLES:  I don't really want to.  I've never really gone crazy with golf, either.  There aren't too many years where I've killed myself, and you can never look back, but I certainly wish I would have pushed harder, but at the same time, it's very difficult to do that really since '92 or '93 with my back, so I've kind of taken it easy and played good golf, not great golf but good golf, so if I keep this pace up    the goal is to win, and I certainly haven't won much in the last six or seven years.

And Houston was a great time.  I worked very hard until that point, and then I seemed like I went right back to relaxing, and you can lose your game pretty quickly, as you know.  My game has never really gotten bad, knock on wood, but it's not really, really that good.  I'm good enough to play well and Saturday and Sunday have some good rounds, but next year I want to be up there and have some chances of actually having to play well on Saturday and Sunday.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT