MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 10, 2014
Fred Couples
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 Q.   (No Microphone.)  
FRED COUPLES:   Am I the oldest looking 54‑year‑old out here?   
   
 Q.   Do you feel like you can still win here?  
FRED COUPLES:   Well, yes.   I'm happy with what I shot, the last few years have been very good, and I really played well today.   Can a 50‑year‑old win here?   I think so.   I'm one of them.   I mean, Sandy Lyle was up on the board, Bernhard Langer and I both last year played really, really well.   
It's hard.   I will say that.   It's hard for me personally to play a course this hard day after day after day after day for four solid rounds.   But my goal is to compete with these guys and not really worry about them.   I hope they all do really well.   
It's nice to see Adam and Rory, because if they play well, I can't beat them, but if I play well, I can compete with them and maybe with nine holes to go, I hit four unbelievable shots and do something good, but that hasn't happened yet.  
   
 Q.   How hard was Amen Corner today?  
FRED COUPLES:   Really hard, but not crazy.   It might have been swirling.   I was up first on 12 and I might have pulled it a little bit, but I hit it kind of where I was looking and it flew in the back bunker.   
Then Webb stepped up and kind of hit a nice little cut 8 in the middle of the green.   I feel like if he would have hit first, maybe I would have had a better feel for it.   
But the wind was swirling.   I really hit a beautiful 4‑wood into the 13th green and it just carried a little far and went in the back bunker.   
11 is always hard, no matter how it is.   
But I know guys are screwing up on it a little bit, it's just a hard shot.   If you don't hit a perfect shot into the wind on 12, it's going to come up short.   If you're a little right, you're going to probably hit the bank and go in the water.   Obviously, if you go left, you might get it in the bunker.   But that's kind of the toughest shot you'll have for most of the day.   
   
 Q.   Is there a "why not me" kind of an attitude?  
FRED COUPLES:   What does that mean?   Why not me what?   
   
 Q.   Why can't I do it?  
FRED COUPLES:   Do what?   
   
 Q.   The Tournament.   To win this thing.   
FRED COUPLES:   Oh, why can't I?   Well, because the last couple years I shot 77 and 75 on Saturday.   So that's why I can't win it.   So I have to play better on all the rounds.   
But I kind of just answered that, I'm not here just to play golf, I love the course and I would say my 71 is in pretty darn good shape.   
I can tell you this much:   That it's going to be really hard to go out and play tomorrow, because it's drying up pretty quickly.   So for us to think we had a pretty good tee time this morning, the last couple greens, 17's getting rock hard and it will be difficult.   
But I like that.   I'm not really worried about‑‑ I'm going to come out here tomorrow and have some guy 7‑under and really care, because there's nothing I can do about it.   
I love the course and I need to keep playing like I am.   When that day stops, then I can be a sacrificial lamb around here and just walk around.   But really, personally, I feel like I can play this course.   
   
 Q.   The first couple of days here you seem like you always play really well here.   
FRED COUPLES:   Yeah, I've been here the last few years, yeah.   Like I said, it's hard.   Someone just said how hard is the 12th hole.   When you don't play as tough of golf courses like this week in and week out, I mean the Champions Tour, you're still trying to win and it's still hard to win, but when you're coming out here you kind of have to hit shot after shot after shot after shot and when you don't, you make bogeys.   
I made a lot of them last year.   I ended up tripling the 17th hole coming in to really throw myself way out of it.   But basically there's no reason that it's any harder, it's just, for me personally, it's hard to play as well every day, every hole because I'm no longer 35 years old.   
   
 Q.   But in this tournament the first two days you always show that you've been doing it?  
FRED COUPLES:   Yeah, I have been.   I feel good.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT