WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 24, 2005
Fred Couples
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
Good round?
FRED COUPLES:  Yeah, he's a very tough competitor.  I'd say this whether I won or lost, I like how he plays.  He's very accurate and solid and I maybe made one putt today and he didn't make any.  He knocked it on the par‑5 and made a birdie, and other than that I felt like we played well, but you keep looking at this and thinking he's going to make one sometime.  But the greens were extremely bumpy and he didn't give it to me.  It's one of those matches where nobody really did much.  We just hung in there and I ended up beating him.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
FRED COUPLES:  There were a couple key things.  There was the ‑‑ he had a pretty good second shot on 15 and it spun back, and I was in the mud and I missed the green short right, and I had an extremely delicate shot, and he three‑putted and I got up‑and‑down to win the hole.  So it never looked good for me there.  And to go from 1‑up to 2‑up with three holes to go was a nice cushion.  I got a little excited on 17, it looked so easy to roll it down there, and I rolled it past and made a horrible putt to win the match.

But it was fun.  It's just one of those deals where you're lucky to win.  I think I play Goosen tomorrow, and neither he or I, if we played the way we played today, would probably beat him.
Q.  With all the rain, what did you think of the course?
FRED COUPLES:  It's a mess.  It's sunny and clear, and there's no reason to sit around another day, but ‑‑ for everybody.  The people out there walking, they're at least trying to take care of that.  I had some friends out there, and they're a foot in mud on every shot.  But this course just can't ‑‑ not many courses can take that, but this will dry out maybe in another day or two.

But I can't pick on it, because I think the greens were probably okay.  You have to be on your toes on the greens, if you're going to make that putt, because I kept telling my caddie, is he going to make that putt, and he said no.  So there's no reason for you to do anything crazy.  And I did it the whole way around until 17 and rolled it by, and missed it coming back.  But that didn't have a whole lot to do with the greens.
Q.  Goosen said some of the footprints had shadows on them.
FRED COUPLES:  That is the truth.  And I will say there were a couple of holes that I looked at Peter and said good, good, and he kind of laughed.  Because when we walked off I said I don't really want you or I to lose on two‑foot putts.  And if anything we were a little loose with them.  But he would give me one and I would turn right around and give him one.  It was not like ‑‑ with all the footprints, I just don't think that's fair.  If I beat him, I want to do it by making an eight‑foot putt, not by having him miss one.  That was our mentality.

But we didn't give any four‑footers, but anything close, you had to take a look, and the first thing that came out of your mouth was good, and I have a lot of respect for that, because if anything he's probably a better putter than I am, that's for sure.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT