THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT
June 3, 2004
Fred Couples
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.
Does the par save on 18 make you feel good going into tomorrow?
FRED COUPLES:  It definitely does.  I bogeyed 17 and then I can't say I hit a bad shot, it went in the creek but I hit it kind of where I was looking, I just flushed it and it one-hopped down there and I made a great third shot and made a six- or seven-footer for par.  The round was good.  I drove the ball well.  I made like about a 60-footer on the second hole.

Then on 15, I made a 50-footer with 20 feet of break.  You don't expect any of those, but at the same time I had a lot of eight, ten, 12-footers that I did not make, so I'm happy to be where I am, and tomorrow I have an early tee time, which can help, and I'm going to need it.  But today was a very good round.
Q.  (Inaudible).
FRED COUPLES:  Well, that is true.  I can say the same thing.  It was a little wet out there, but the greens are very, very fast.  They're not firm where you can't stop a ball, but if it stays dry and windy they'll firm up and get extremely quick.

But I think the golf course played fairly long, but at the same time, the ball was stopping on the greens right now, but it may not tomorrow afternoon, and you may see this course play awfully tough the next three days.
Q.  (Inaudible).
FRED COUPLES:  Well, I mean, I actually was on the 10th tee, and I watched J.L. Lewis make a big score, and then I played with Nick Price, who drove it up against the lip of the bunker and as you saw made 7.  He's done a pretty good job of it.

I almost thought about 2-iron off the tee, but the hole, you don't want to go at that pin with a 5-iron.  When the pin is way to the left, that's okay, but when they hit it on that knob, if you go long you're going to chip it down the hill 30 yards short.  I chose a route where I was going to try and smoke it down there, and I got very lucky, but the new bunkers make that hole definitely where you can't hit driver.  I don't think anyone is going to hit driver unless they're a short hitter.
Q.  (Inaudible).
FRED COUPLES:  Well, I hit a 3-wood off the tee.  I just bogeyed the hole before and I wanted to get it in the fairway.  I hit 3-iron and it rolled to the back, and I kept looking at this putt that the further right I hit it, the better off I'd be, and I kind of just picked a spot, and from 50 feet, you don't usually hit a spot, but it went right over where I was looking, started to curl, and the rest is history and it's kind of comical to make a putt like that.
Q.  (Inaudible).
FRED COUPLES:  Well, I hope so.  I was expecting to get it within eight to ten feet, and once it started breaking, everyone thought it was going to be good, and as Nick said, it was one of the purest putts he had ever seen.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT