WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 25, 2004
Fred Couples
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Just make a couple comments on your match today. 
FRED COUPLES:  Actually, I won fairly easily, but he hit the ball as well or better than I did.  I just made a couple putts.  I started out birdieing a hole and then he made a birdie and we went back and forth with good play. 
And then I birdied four out of five holes to go 4 up.  On two of the holes he was closer and I made putts, which it looked like I might lose the hole and ended up winning the hole.  It was nothing like the score looked, but we played very well.  I think it might have been -- I wish I could have saved a few birdies.  I might have been 4-under, something like that.

Q.  Where did you start the four birdies?
FRED COUPLES:  I birdied No. 8 to get 2 up and then he hit it five feet on 9, and then I birdied 1, 2 -- actually, I birdied 10, 11, 13, so three birdies, so I had five birdies and a bogey.  So that put me 4 up.  Then he won a hole and then we tied the last couple to close it out.

Q.  You haven't been here in years. 
FRED COUPLES:  Right, what do I do now?  Do I play somebody next?  It looks like Davis, which will be a blast.

Q.  Davis is 1 up going into 18. 
Is that extra tough or extra fun playing somebody like that?
FRED COUPLES:  We've played several times, not in a while, where I tried to beat him in a tournament.  No, I think it's all a match.  I went to college, played against Bob.  Have been out here 20-something years and know him fairly well.  It's an easy match.  I'd rather play Davis than somebody I don't know.  Davis is a great, great player, so surely I have my work cut out for me to hang in there.

Q.  It's probably about as comfortable of a day as --
FRED COUPLES:  Well, I don't know.  The comfort part is I think -- if you're playing the U.S. Open on the last day and you're playing with Davis, that helps a little bit, but in this thing, every day is a match and I don't think you feel any more comfort playing a guy that you know, but it would be fun. 

Q.  When was the last time you played with Davis?  The final round of The Players Championship?
FRED COUPLES:  Last year, probably, yeah.

End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT