THE PRESIDENTS CUP
October 4, 2013
Fred Couples
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Talk about the disarray with all the rain, but you're still in good shape. 
FRED COUPLES:   We're in great shape.   We sat around and there was a couple blowout matches, one on their team, one on ours.   Behind in the last match but we have guys looking like they could go 4‑2 either way or 3‑3.   So we are battling, getting the guys going tomorrow morning for 5:00 on the bus.

Q.   Talk about the two matches that are doing well, obviously Phil and Keegan won pretty easily. 
FRED COUPLES:   And you were there yesterday, when they asked why, and that was why.   Sometimes you want the young players to go out because they want to get out and once that gets passed, once the team comes up‑‑ they all say it, but you get a guy like Phil look at you like that, you believe in him, you put him out first, and they beat a great team in Graham DeLaet and Jason Day.   It was phenomenal golf. 
The rest of the guys followed that, and Ernie and de Jonge beat Hunter and Haas.   I think they were 9‑under after 14 holes, so that's crazy golf. 
Stricker and Spieth, they are a little bit of an underdog on 15, they are from what they have told me they have a very tough pitch, but they are going to make the other team get up‑and‑down, and if that happens, 2‑up with three to play.   But you know, these are hard matches, but Spieth is doing it all and Stricker is Steve Stricker, he plays great all the time. 

Q.   And you've played a million of these before.   What do you tell guys if they lose the first two matches?   How do you keep them up? 
FRED COUPLES:   Well, you know, sometimes the captains and Davis and Jay, we talk about it and keep saying, they are going to get a point from you, and you change teams.   Guys are going to lose matches, and if it's not, we would be winning every one and it would be over by tomorrow afternoon.
I like to watch our guys play, and when I'm out there watching, when they are losing to birdies, there's not much you can do about it.   You keep the teams that make sense and you let them play.   Like I said, we are not all going to win every match. 

Q.   You deal with the weather every week on the PGA TOUR?
FRED COUPLES:   It's funny because I'm not hitting the ball but when I look at them, I feel bad for a couple guys, because you're sitting here relaxing, we have a young team and all of a sudden they say, hey, boys, range is open, 45 minutes, we're going to tee off and you're used to it.   But this is a little more‑‑ it's almost like a major‑type thing.   So the better players will be able to handle it and go, and then once you get going you're a young guy, you feel like if you get going good, that's great.   And when you stop, then you've got to go out there and it's like the first tee shot again for everyone, but when your nerves are there, it's a little harder.   We are winning matches and that's the goal.   We are not‑‑ this team will never get beat.   We'll go down hard, and I just like the way we're playing..







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT