U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 12, 2013
Fred Couples
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MODERATOR:   Fred Couples, today's round 1 under par, 69, even for the Championship.

Q.   Even is good in the U.S. Open. 
FRED COUPLES: Yeah, U.S. Open type, wind and rough and fast greens.   Yeah, you know, yesterday wasn't all bad, and today was kind of the same except I made a couple more putts.   I at least putted better today.   I made a couple nice par saves. 
I started in the back, and I mis‑clubbed the second shot with a sand wedge on maybe 15, up the hill and it spun all the way back down.   I made bogey. 
And then finally made a birdie on Number 2.   I hit the green in two.   After that, I three‑putted the next but then made a nice 20‑footer and then hit a good drive on the last par 5 and had a very short club in there for another birdie.
I hit some better shots, and I'm in good shape.

Q.   Did you find some shots‑‑ the greens were watered pretty heavily, I guess.   Did you find some shots plugging in the greens at all? 
FRED COUPLES:   No, no plugging.   The greens were softer.   I'm sure it will be the last of the water after the cut. 
But 8:00 tee time was perfect out there.   It was kind of cool, and the greens were soft and receptive for any kind of iron.   And in the back nine, they dried out a little bit, but they were good.   This afternoon, you know, may be like what we had yesterday.   But with the winds blowing, it's a hard golf course.
I don't feel like I‑‑ actually, I feel like I played a really good round to shoot 1 under.   All right?   Yeah?

Q.   About your putting, how do you explain it being better today? 
FRED COUPLES:   No, I just hit better putts.   I didn't make any putts.   I just got them to the hole, which is a lot better than leaving 15‑footers 2 feet short. 
I just, I think the greens were better.   I was a little tentative yesterday.   And today, you know, like I said, I hit a couple putts that I actually had to mark and wait to putt out.   Yesterday, they were all lagged up there and tap‑‑ ins.
The greens are good.   I can't pick on the greens.   They're a little bumpy, but they're good, and they're very tough.   They're very, very tough greens.

Q.   Is even par about where you're supposed to be right now? 
FRED COUPLES:   It's what I'm at.   So I played pretty well the last two days.   If I play like this tomorrow and Sunday and make a few putts, you know, I think I could shoot the same scores or better. 
But it's going to be windy this afternoon so anyone who goes out there and shoots a 67 or 68 has played an unbelievable round.   All right.

Q.   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT