MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 14, 2013
Fred Couples
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Well, great way to finish it up.   Nice little birdie on 18. 
FRED COUPLES:   Yeah, I mean I played well today.   I really didn't do much.   I birdied 15 and 18 to get to 1‑under. 
I played with Jason, we didn't make any putts and we were both right around the hole.   But I had a good time.   He's a great player and I played last year Saturday and Sunday with him and it's the same thing as last year, I played terrible on Saturday and then yesterday the finish was, I just told him there, I don't know if I've ever really finished like that in a tournament in my life, the way some of these shots I hit.   I couldn't even chip balls out of the trees with any feel. 
But it is what it is and I was not in a great mood yesterday, because if I just would have finished halfway, I could have come out today with a shot at winning.   And today was just really another fun day at Augusta.

Q.   What is it about Augusta though that brings out the best in your game?
FRED COUPLES:   Well, I can play the course.   So even yesterday wasn't great, I bogeyed 14 with a wedge, I laid up on 16 and I couldn't even roll it under the trees.   I bogeyed there and made a 7 there.   If I just do what's normal for everybody, maybe I play those holes 2‑over and I'm 3‑under instead of even par.   But it didn't happen that way. 
So to answer your question, I know how to play the course, I just played for about 40 minutes like a 7 handicap. 

Q.   Sandy Lyle shot under par today, you shot under par, is it kind of good to see these young guys that‑‑
FRED COUPLES:   Well, we're not young.

Q.   The 50 something's still come out and shoot under par. 
FRED COUPLES:   Sure.   I think Sandy would tell you he played a really good round of golf.   It's just hard to do every round for me.   I work hard‑‑ I'm not going to lie to you, 2:40 tee time, it's not easy, by the end of the day I'm exhausted.   I just wasn't quite as sharp.   But that's what happens when you play well, you're going to be off late.   I'll take a 2:45 tee time next year too and try my luck at it. 
But I know that ‑‑ Bernhard Langer, he was under par for the longest time, so that's phenomenal stuff.   But he's very consistent and plenty long and the course firmed up.   Where Sandy, he's a bomber.   If Sandy goes out and drives it well, this course should play like it did when he won here.   It does for me. 
But when I start hitting it short, man, it's a hard, hard thing to hit it close to the hole, hard to make birdies and you're going to shoot 75.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT