MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2013
Fred Couples
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Nice going.   Sort of par for the course around here for you?
FRED COUPLES:   It was a good day.   I played the par‑5s 3‑under and I maybe hit one poor shot and it was an iron on number 6 where I missed it well to the right of the green and scrambled to make bogey. 
But other than that, it was ‑‑ the tee ball I hit on 18 I thought was perfect and it trickled down into the bunker where it was a little bit of a shaky lie.   I almost hit a great shot out of there.   I was trying to half skull a 9‑iron and I'm not too disappointed with a bogey there. 
But the rest of it was good.   I made a few key putts and that's what you have to do here and I'm in great shape.

Q.   Do you get inspired when you come here or do you just get fired up or what?
FRED COUPLES:   I get fired up, but I have to drive it really well.   I stepped up on 1 today and hit a really good one and I hit a good one to 5 and I hit a good one on 7 and I hit a good one on 8.   Which are all holes that are good driving holes. 
People think this place is wide open.   Drive it to the right on number 7 and see how many pars you're going to make.   Or hit it in that bunker on number 8 off the tee and you're not going to make any birdies. 
So I did that well and it just makes the course play easier for me.   I used my length and tomorrow if I can come out and feel good and pound my driver, it will make tomorrow seem easier too. 
I know how to play the course.   That's not the problem.   It's where, when I'm standing where the ball goes.   And I had a couple practice rounds where I didn't play all that well and I was a little concerned.   I went out after the par‑3 and I practiced for about an extra 40 minutes and I seemed to find a little bit and I took it on the course today. 

Q.   Does it surprise you at all that you're able to contend here year after year after year?
FRED COUPLES:   Well, it's not year after year after year, but last year I was in the last group, but I mean, honestly, it's not surprising.   I'm going to come out tomorrow and do everything I can to keep this thing going, because I know I can play this course.   And if I hit it like that, I can play it every day. 
We had beautiful weather.   Everyone talked about it was going to be windy, it blew a little bit, but it was overcast and the greens didn't firm up the 1 o'clock tee time because of that and that was a big break too.   And then tomorrow I got an early time and I have to get up early and get ready and see what I can do. 

Q.   As well as you play this golf course, have you ever thought about how long you may want to play it?   Every year you get fired up to come back?
FRED COUPLES:   Well, I think a lot, like Vijay was saying, I'm going to play this tournament until I really don't think I can win.   I'm kind of that way too.   It's just so long and if I ever start not driving it a long way and playing this course with 3‑ and 4‑irons in the first green, I don't want to walk around and get in everyone's way and shoot a bad score and not enjoy it.   I enjoy it.   So how long?   I would say another 25 years of this? 
(Laughter.)

Q.   How about your fans?
FRED COUPLES:   I look around, I enjoy it.   When you're playing well, it's easier to see them.   If you're out there scrambling and hitting it all over, it gets a little frustrating because they're trying to get you pumped up and you can't really hit a shot, that's hard. 
But this is a good spot for me.   The people get me fired up and they yell hard and they're every where.   They're out there for everybody.   I mean I played with Brendan Grace today, he struggled but people still want to see him hit good shots and I've been here 30 years and I was hitting good shots, so I was in a better spot than he was, but they're still out there hoping everyone plays well. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
FRED COUPLES:   Is that what he shot?   1‑over?   Yeah, that's phenomenal.   That's phenomenal stuff.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT