U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 12, 2012
Fred Couples
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Briefly sum up your day.   
FRED COUPLES:   Sum it up.   You know, not very good.   A couple over par.   Absolutely beautiful day with some good scores, and mine wasn't one of them.   But, you know, come out tomorrow and try and shoot a lot better.  
   
 Q.   You struggled on the greens a little bit.   A couple of the three‑putts got you.   Got derailed a bit?   
FRED COUPLES:   No, you know.   I just don't feel all that good, and it's hard to kind of get comfortable putting.   And it showed.   The one on 11 was kind of a killer.   Number 12, that was a brutal hole.   Tom and I both.   I got it down to where I could make a six or seven‑foot uphiller, and I didn't.   
To be honest, from the middle of three fairways, I made bogeys from 145 yards with 8 irons, and that's really unacceptable.   But other than that, I had good holes and bad holes.   But I just am a little sore and pretty rusty.  
   
 Q.   Your amateur partner turned in 35 and then had a really bad back nine?  
FRED COUPLES:   You know, I think he got a little unsettled on 10.   Maybe he tried to buy a little more out of that bunker and made bogey there.   Then on 11, he hit the cart path on the second shot, and it hopped over the fence.   I think maybe he maybe would have made 5 there, but he made a good 6.   
And then it's hard.   When you start going that way and you're not used to doing this, it doesn't take much to start bogeying holes.   That's what he did.   But he played very, very well the front nine.   He was solid, and the back nine is not the way, I'm sure, he wanted to finish.   But tomorrow, he'll come out, and I'm sure he'll have a good round.   He's a good player.  
   
 Q.   Is your wrist okay?   
FRED COUPLES:   No, my wrist is killing me, but not in the golf swing.   It's all my‑‑ a little sore and it's okay.  
   
 Q.   Did you see a 28 being had out there on the‑‑  
FRED COUPLES:   No, that was unbelievable.   I think 7 under after nine?   That's incredible stuff.   I saw a 64, 65 out there, but I didn't think anyone would shoot 7 under in eight holes, actually, I think.   Did he par No. 9?   Yeah, that's phenomenal golf.   Yeah, it's just to birdie that many holes, it's a very good course.   
Now, again, it was doable to shoot a 69, 70 or 71, I'm going to say, if you played okay.   And a 66 or 67 if you played great.   But I don't know, what is he now?   He was 7 under.   He what?   So he's 5.   So still he's 65 on pace for that.   That's a great round.   All right, thanks, you guys.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT