MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 9, 2011
Fred Couples
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q. Three rounds at the Masters, your back being the way it is, you just make it look so easy. It's got to be the shoes. 
 FRED COUPLES: Yeah, it's the shoes. 

 Q. Are you happy with your round today?
 FRED COUPLES: Yeah, I made really one bad shot, one poor judgment on the 8th hole, and I was just telling him, I really haven't tried a tricky shot all week, and I drove it up there a mile and I saw where the pin was, the first look at No. 8, and I knew you had to hit it past the hole, and I tried to hit some low, hooking wood up there, and I can barely hit a straight wood shot, let alone try that. And I pulled it into the junk, and then it just was a comedy of errors after that. I hit it over the green, left it short of the green, then putted it down there, missed about a six-footer for bogey. After that I hung in there and made two more birdies to at least stay close to everybody. 
 With a great round tomorrow, who knows. But I'm not disappointed. I wish I would have not made that score there. I might have played a little bit more aggressive. From then on I was just trying to get back to hit good shots after that when you have 9, 10, 11 and 12. And I birdied 15 and 16 to get back to even for 5-under.

 Q. Are you surprised that nobody has really --
 FRED COUPLES: Well, to be honest there was some great rounds early in the day. There's only two guys that were way ahead, and they're probably thinking no one has made a huge run at them and they're hanging in there at the top and they're good young players. So it's going to be a logjam tomorrow. Whoever can shoot 6- or 7-under up there on that board has a great shot at winning if they can do that. I'm not surprised. It's hard to play this course when you're leading. It's hard to play these courses to shoot 5-under, and you're going to see two or three guys that have got -- Bo Van Pelt, Adam Scott and Cabrera. I think 2-under is a very good score.

 Q. Take us through your birdies today. 
 FRED COUPLES: All right, I birdied No. 4, par-3, I made about a 30-footer. 
 And then I birdied 15, I laid up and wedged it to about 15 feet, made it.
 And then I hit a 7-iron on 16 to about eight feet and made it.

 Q. You had a few close misses there, especially early on. 
 FRED COUPLES: Well, I did hit some good putts, but I'm not getting close enough to the hole. But I did putt pretty well. I didn't leave many out there except for the double bogey, and other than that, it was a pretty good round of golf.

 Q. Does the back feel the same or different?
 FRED COUPLES: You know, I think it's wearing off now. It's supposed to last two weeks. Sunday will be the second week of doing this. I'm pretty sore. But I keep swinging at it and it's not a hindrance. But I think when this all melts away, I'll be in big trouble and be back to what I was. It is what it is. I'll be done after tomorrow, so hopefully I can finish and do well. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT