AL DIVISION SERIES: YANKEES VS RED SOX
October 6, 2018
Jackie Bradley Jr.
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Jackie, can you talk about David Price.  He has had a rough postseason history.  Can you talk about David, and do you think what are some of the factors in him turning it around tonight?
JACKIE BRADLEY JR.: That's the good thing about the postseason, you never know what's going to happen.  You know, we have opportunity to go out there and compete.
I'm excited to see David on the mound tonight.  I can't wait to play behind him.
Q. Jackie, what did you think of Mookie's play yesterday where he almost got the double play?  And also, do you have any examples of how you guys feed off each other and learn from each other out there?
JACKIE BRADLEY JR.: That was a spectacular play.  Not only to make the catch with the close proximity to the wall, but to be able to pirouette and throw it right on the dime, right to Steve and make it a pretty close play.  You know, that was a very special play.  Kind of kept some momentum from going their way.
We feed off each other.  We just enjoy I guess playing the game, and I want to say we -- I don't think we try to one-up each other, but we try to play to the best of our abilities.  Whatever we can do to help the team, we're all for.
Q. Jackie, you have been a part of a couple of post-seasons now.  To get a taste of the Red Sox-Yankees rivalry, how did it compare to previous experiences you've had?
JACKIE BRADLEY JR.: I guess I don't really technically look at it to the whole Red Sox-Yankees rivalry.  I know some people do.  But I guess my perspective is a little bit different.  I just focus on we're playing against another great team.  You wouldn't be in the playoffs if you weren't.  And focus on winning.  That's the main goal.  It doesn't matter who it is against, as long as we win, that's what I enjoy the most.
Q. Jackie, you guys played some small ball last night - bunt single, sac bunt, there was a stolen base.  Is that specific to the game plan or just something that happened in the flow of the game?
JACKIE BRADLEY JR.: We like to mix things up a little bit.  Keep it interesting.
Q. There was a lot going on in that game with Yankees having runners on base late in the game and trying to make a comeback.  From your standpoint and the position players' standpoint, how much tension was there in those innings?
JACKIE BRADLEY JR.: They were putting together some great at-bats.  Obviously we like to always tell ourselves, no matter what the situation is, we're never out of it.  I'm sure they felt the same way, when they were putting together some good at-bats, getting some walks, I believe.  Two straight innings they had the bases loaded.
So it's one of those things where we needed to lock it down.  We're very fortunate enough to get that win last night.
Q. There was a bird on the field for much of the game.  Left field for a while and center field for a while.  Looked like you had to avoid the bird at one point.
JACKIE BRADLEY JR.: Yeah.  He befriended quite a bit of us.  I honestly don't think he cared where we were.  He was just going to enjoy the grass seeding that was down there.  He mixed it up - he went from left, center to right.  He enjoyed himself.
I'm just glad that on that -- I actually thought about before the inning even started he was directly in front of me.  I'm like, what are you doing?  I just got a feeling it's going to be a ball hit right there, and I'm going to have to dive.  I'm telling you, four plays later -- actually, it was two batters later, Aaron hits a ball right there.  And I'm like, the first thing off the bat I can think about is, man, that bird is about to get hit.
Q. Did you think of scaring him away?
JACKIE BRADLEY JR.: I didn't have time.  As I'm approaching him, I'm anticipating where the ball is going to land.  And I'm almost trying to kind of carom my body around it, so I make sure I don't hit the bird.  I like animals.  I don't think it would have worked out for him if I would have hit him.
Q. Is that the first time you had seen that bird?
JACKIE BRADLEY JR.: That's the first time I've seen that bird.  I've seen other birds.  Usually in Spring Training.
Q. This might be a tough one for you, but do you have like your five favorite places to play center field in around the league?  Like what are your favorite places to play, just center field?
JACKIE BRADLEY JR.: Detroit, St. Louis, San Diego, Kansas City, Miami.
Q. You didn't mention Boston.  Is this a tough one?
JACKIE BRADLEY JR.: It's tough.  It's just with left-center I don't have enough space.  I have to let it hit the wall and wait for the bounce.  All the other fields I named, there's a lot of room to run.
Q. How about Yankee Stadium?
JACKIE BRADLEY JR.: Yeah, that's good too.  Yeah.
Q. So you like to have a lot of space.
JACKIE BRADLEY JR.: Yeah.
Q. To wander around.
JACKIE BRADLEY JR.: Yeah, to be able to evenly go after it both directions.  Not have to worry about being confined.
Q. Jackie, can you talk about the maturing process of the young Red Sox players the last few years.
JACKIE BRADLEY JR.: Yeah.  As you know, we've got a lot of young players.  They've stepped right in and helped us out tremendously.  There's always going to be some growing pains and things that we have to work through, get better with, but we have a great leadership, great veteran presence on our team that's able to show us every step of the way.
Q. I know on the day that starters get the ball, sometimes they go into "don't talk to me" mode.  Some are laid back.  What is Price like before he starts?
JACKIE BRADLEY JR.: I think he's just trying to get locked in.  I'm sure he's listening to kind of music, whatever makes him feel his best.  But you know, he's pretty chill.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT