NCAA WOMEN'S COLLEGE WORLD SERIES
June 1, 2018
Kelly Barnhill
Kayli Kvistad
Sophia Reynoso
Jordan Roberts
Jennifer Rocha
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








UCLA - 6, Florida - 5
THE MODERATOR: This is the Game 6 press conference featuring Gators of Florida joined by Assistant Coach Jennifer Rocha, Kayli Kvistad, Sophia Reynoso, Kelly Barnhill, and Jordan Roberts.
Coach, Kelly Barnhill struck out eight of the first nine batters and ran into trouble at the end and bounced back and pitched pretty well.  What were your conversations with her after that inning to help her stay in the game?
JENNIFER ROCHA: You know, it's just the same conversation that we had with our team, even after the game.  It's just going to be a matter of resiliency and being able to come back and continuing to play our best softball and just getting one at a time.
Q. Kelly, the error in the fourth inning, did that just kind of get you guys out of sorts a little bit to start the inning off?
KELLY BARNHILL: Well, it definitely wasn't the ideal way to start off the inning.  After that, I guess I just didn't feel exactly locked in.  Really wasn't as sharp as I wanted to be.  And when you walk people and make errors, they make you pay for it.
Q. Kayli, Sophia, the two of you were seeing the ball really well tonight.  What was the feeling in the box against somebody like Rachel Garcia?
KAYLI KVISTAD: Yeah, Rachel's a really good pitcher.  She was pounding the zone, and I think just trying not to do too much with it just trying to get a pitch to hit early in the count, and it worked out for me.
SOPHIA REYNOSO: Yeah, I agree with Kayli.  Our plan was to go in there and not do too much.  She pitched a good game, and I hadn't been seeing the ball really well in a few games, and I just saw it well today.  Yep.
Q. Kelly and Sophia and Kayli, you guys were on the field for the play at home plate.  You made a great throw.  What do you think you saw at the end of that play?
KAYLI KVISTAD: Just Sophia made an amazing catch, amazing throw, and we were just trying to make a play on it.
SOPHIA REYNOSO: Yeah, just we did our best on that, and the way it turned out was the way it turned out.
KELLY BARNHILL: Same.
Q. Coach, if you could comment on the ejection and what happened there?
JENNIFER ROCHA: I don't really have a comment on that.
Q. Jordan, it looked like after UCLA scored their five in the fourth and Tim called the team together (indiscernible) outside the dugout or inside the dugout, what was the message in that moment?  What was he trying to get across there?
JORDAN ROBERTS: Just stay within ourselves, stay confident in what we can do and don't worry about the other team.  Yeah, it was just keeping it simple.  Not being too big, and just keeping the fight.
Q. Kayli, what is the situation going into tomorrow, a position you haven't been in a College World Series in a long time?
KAYLI KVISTAD: I think just going into it, we're still going to be playing good softball.  That's what we did today.  We put up a good fight.  And I think we're going to go out even stronger.  We know everyone in the lineup can turn the game over, and we're going to work on that and get a good night's rest and sit tomorrow and hopefully come out with a win.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT