CIMB CLASSIC
October 22, 2016
Anirban Lahiri
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








CHUAH CHOO CHIANG: 65, four-shot lead, how pleasing is that.
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: It's very satisfying, to finish the way I did definitely a big positive.  I was determined today to keep my focus right through the 18 holes, and I'm happy I managed to do that.  Just going to try and do the same tomorrow.
I just told myself that I got rid of my double-bogey early in the round today and just tried to focus on what I needed to do.  You know, like I said, I feel like I'm hitting it good with my irons, my wedges and I'm putting it good.
So I just told myself to keep hitting fairways and giving myself chances, and made a couple of putts.  Hit some close, so, yeah, very satisfying.
CHUAH CHOO CHIANG: You talked about how you've been making a lot of birdies coming in from Macau and entering the week, as well, and lots of birdies on this golf course, but what is it that you and Rajiv worked on Monday when you got to TPC KL?
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: Funny enough what we worked on had nothing to do with me making birdies.  We worked more on making sure that I get a little bit more confident off the tee.  I think that's still an area that I want to improve on.
I haven't found as many fairways with my driver as I'd like, and that's what we were working on because I felt like my swing is not 100 percent.  It's definitely better right now than where it was in Macau, no doubt, as you can see.
But I think the scoring aspect is more of a mental thing, and I think I'm quite focused on just what I need to do, which is hit fairways, try and hit it close and then use my advantage of having played here a few times before to know which way it's likely to break.  That's what's helped me make putts this week.
Q. Going into tomorrow with a four-shot cushion, what's the plan?
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: It's the same.  I don't even consider it -- I don't consider any lead safe out here.  This golf course is such that, you've seen guys shooting 63, 61.  I've shot 61 before.  Justin shot 60 last year.
I have to go out there and I have to do the same exact thing.  I have to just keep making birdies, because you can't play defensive golf here.  You just have to hang in there and maintain your focus right through.
Q. How important is it for you to finish well in the closing stages?
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: It's very important.  Obviously it was on my mind today.  It was on my mind since I finished my round yesterday actually.  I'm glad that I stayed positive and focused right through.
You know, luckily today it was a little bit cooler.  That definitely helps when you're not trying to fight the heat and exhaustion.  I played a little bit off the tee maybe yesterday and so I'm making sure that I'm taking enough food and liquids on the golf course so that doesn't affect my focus.
I'm trying my best.  I'm doing whatever I can to make sure that I'm still in the same space mentally and physically on the first hole that I am right now after I finish 18.
Q. You said on Tuesday, PGA TOUR hopefully four days --
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: You have to stay positive.  The good thing with golf is there's always next week.  But right now, I just need to focus on what I need to do.  I feel in a good place mentally and physically and with my game, so that's exactly where you want to be going into tomorrow.  So I'm not going to think much about where I am but just think about what I need to do.
Q. Surprising to be in another country and to be the crowd favorite, as well?
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: I'd like to think it's a home crowd.  I've had quite a love affair with Malaysia, whether it's the Malaysian Open or whether it's the two EurAsia Cups where we've had tremendous support and there's a lot of Indians in KL and Malaysia.
So it definitely feels like home.  I've been coming here ever since I was a junior.  I played in Malaaca I think in 2004, so it's been 12 years now.  I'd like to think that I'm going to have some home crowd support tomorrow, yeah.
CHUAH CHOO CHIANG: What sort of age do you find coming back to where you've won before?
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: I think it's just a boost to your confidence, nothing else I think.  At the back of your mind, you know that you've got it done on this golf course, and that helps obviously, because to close an event is not easy.
After Macau, I was sitting home and looking, I have seven seconds and four thirds and a few fourths and fifths for my seven wins.  It's painful when you don't get over the line, and when you do, you remember it.  You remember what it felt like mentally, and I think that's where you want to recall that feeling and that helps you to play better through the week.
Q. Walking on to the practice range this morning, I saw a look in your eye that I had never seen before.  You looked extremely determined and focused.  Where did that come from and how much did that help you today?
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: Thanks.  I think I've been in a good frame of mind just coming in after last week, finishing the way I did.  I felt like I let one get away.  So I'm going to try my best to improve on that.  I'm glad I kept my focus after the round today.
Q. You've won on this golf course before in the Malaysian Open and know it like the back of your hand.  How much confidence does that give you going into tomorrow?
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: It definitely helps.  When you've played a golf course a few times, you get a lot more comfortable, and I think that's the big difference between me playing on new courses every week and during the year and last season.
So this week obviously feels like home.  I've played it few times.  I've won here.  So good memories out on the golf course.
Q. With a four-shot lead, how will you approach tomorrow?
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: I actually have to do the same thing.  You can shoot 63, 61, 60.  We've seen that in the past.  Everyone is in with a shot.  I just have to go out there and keep making birdies.  I don't think there's any other way to do it.
Q. 65 today and four-shot lead now, surely you must feel happier today?
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: Yeah, I'm really happy.  More than anything else, I finished strong.  I think that's been lacking in my game the first two days.  I'm really happy I kept my focus through all 18 holes.  Yeah, I'm happy.
Q. With three solid rounds in the bag and you're riding a great momentum and you've won on this course; how confident are you moving ahead?
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: I feel like I'm playing well and hitting my irons well.  I just need to make sure I find fairways tomorrow.  As long as I can do that and give myself a good look at birdie, I'll make a few.
Q. And looking ahead to the Order of Merit, if you win this event, you pretty much secure it.  How much is that in the back of your mind?
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: It's not there at all.  I'm not thinking about it at all.  I think that I have to stay in the present.  I have to focus on what I need to do shot by shot, hole-by-hole.  There's no point in projecting.
For me, I'm going to head to the range, work on my driver.  It's been giving me some trouble.  Just, you know, keep my head down and try and play the way I have the last three days.
Q. And finally, what's the strategy?
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: There is no strategy.  This golf course, anybody can shoot any score.  This is a great field.  So I have to go out there and just continue to be aggressive and continue to just play the way I have, and I have to make birdies.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT