CIMB CLASSIC
October 21, 2016
Anirban Lahiri
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  One blemish on your scorecard but otherwise a fantastic rounds?  
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: I've been playing well.  Both yesterday and today I've played good.  I think I played solid right through.  It's just very disappointing to finish the way I did.  Both days I think I left four or five shots out there coming in.  Yeah, I would have liked to be in a better position the way I've played but it's not over yet.   
 Q.  You hit almost all your greens today.  Can you comment on your irons?  
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: I put some work in with my coach earlier in the week.  Last week was a bit of a struggle.  Obviously I seem to be finding my rhythm a lot better.  I think having played this course a few times, you kind of know what to do.   
Yeah, I think if I can keep doing what I'm doing, keep giving myself looks, then I can make a few more.   
 Q.  We keep seeing you make fantastic shots and you still look not happy.  What is behind it?  Is it a way to get pumped up?  
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: Not really.  I think me, I expect myself to hit it closer than what I do sometimes.  I set myself high standards and sometimes I might look disappointed but it's a way of me pushing myself to get better.  It's not in any way disrespectful or arrogant.  It's just the way I am.  I've always been that way.   
 Q.  You are now very well placed on the leaderboard going into the weekend.  What is your strategy now?  
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: Yeah, I mean, more of the same obviously, without weak finishes.  If I can switch that around the next two days, try and get in the hunt on Sunday afternoon.  Like I said, I think I'm playing well.  Hopefully I can just keep the intensity through the weekend.   
 Q.  You must take some heart that you made five birdies in your last 47 holes?  
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: Yeah, like I said, I think a call just kind of switched on in my mind, like a birdie block before that.  I just had not played that much golf.  But I'm definitely swinging it better this week.  Just feel like I've got to work on the mistakes -- I've compounded my errors.  I've not made too many errors, but when I've made an error, I've kind of compounded it this week.  So I guess that's unfortunate and disappointing I guess.   
 Q.  Is it down to rustiness from lack of play?  
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: Not really.  I don't think so.  I've played enough now.  This is three weeks on the trot, so it's not that.  I think it's just I have to manage my decision making a little bit better.  I hit driver off the tee on 18 and probably wasn't the right play for me.   
If I just hit a fairway wood off the tee, which is what I do normally from the back tee, it makes the hole a lot easier for me.  I just tried to be aggressive today because I was feeling good but made a bad swing.  And then it was a bit of a disaster on the greens.   
I've been pretty solid otherwise.  I guess I just have to focus a little bit harder when I'm finishing up.   
 Q.  Has it been a good decision that you made to come back to courses that you've won?  
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: Yeah, it's definitely something that I planned.  When I sat down with my team, my wife, my coach, my manager, Rajiv, my caddie, we were trying to figure out what's the best plan of action, because I had the choice of playing three different tours.   
But obviously for me, it's important for me to work myself back into form.  And the best way to do that is to go and play courses that you're comfortable on where you've done well before.   
The last three weeks have all been courses where I've won, so when you go back to a course where you won, you already feel positive to start, and I think that's what I needed.  It's been so much guesswork for me in America the past season, and I wanted to come back out of injury.   
It feels like a softer start.  It's just because you don't have to work so hard on the Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, so yeah, that was something that was strategically planned by my team and me to come out ask work my way back.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT