THE 145TH OPEN
July 15, 2016
Anirban Lahiri
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You hung in there today.  
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: Yeah, that would be pretty accurate.  I think the idea was to get off to a good start on the front nine, and that wasn't to be.  A couple of judgment errors.  New conditions today more or less, so it was a little bit different from how we played the front nine all week.  So I think that kind of didn't work in my favour.  But I was glad that I, like you said, hung tough on the back nine.   
It was a bit of a grind.  I did feel like I could have made a few more putts and probably come in a couple of shots better.  But, yeah, a little disappointed, but could have been worse, yeah.   
 Q.  How difficult was it on the back nine?  
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: I think the hardest holes are around the turn.  We played, at least our group played 7, 8, 9, 10 in rain and wind, and I think that's when the conditions are the hardest.  It's hard to judge exactly how far it's going to go.  The last couple holes I had played, there was no rain, and the ball was going miles downwind.  When you look at the flags and throw any grass, it looks like it's only from the side.  The moment it gets up, it goes a long way.  So it's hard judging the right wind, getting the right club.  Once you're on the green, it's a little bit better.   
 Q.  Going into the weekend and in the weekend, what's achievable for you now?  
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: Well, I'll be hoping to post two scores in the red over the weekend.  I think that should be a pretty gettable, pretty achievable target for me.  If it's deep enough in the red, maybe I can give myself a chance on Sunday.   
 Q.  Are you considered to be a role model for your country in golf?  (Inaudible) How do you feel?  
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: I'm trying to do my job, obviously.  It's become so that I'm the only guy that's been playing on the PGA Tour now.  And I've been one of the most successful Indian professionals in the last couple of years at least.  So it's nice to be appreciated.  I know a lot of kids do look up, so it puts a bit of pressure, but it's the nicest feeling because it wasn't very long back that I was looking up to Jeev or Arjun, and all those guys and wanting to be like them.  So I know how it feels to be on the other side of the ropes.  It's a very proud feeling.   
 Q.  How did it feel being on the first tee?  
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: Yeah, this was I think the least nervous I've ever been on the first tee, also because I was hitting maybe a 5-iron; that helps.  But it's also my fourth Open, so it's nice to get more comfortable starting out weeks like this and knowing what is achievable because of what I've done at majors in the past.   
I feel like I play my best golf when I focus really hard during the majors.  And hopefully the next few days are evidence of that.   
 Q.  Considering the weather today, how far different was it from yesterday?  
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: I think for me it was a big learning experience today.  Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday played completely different to what it played like today.  Obviously, it was a little bit wetter.  I kind of struggled with the speeds on the greens.  Left a bunch of putts short.  Obviously they have to keep the green speeds low because of the wind speeds, otherwise it will get unplayable.   
But, yeah, it was good that I kind of got off the course when I did because I think I've got enough weather to gauge what to do in regard there on the weekend.  It's a tough course.  It's a links course and wind is the biggest defense, and when that gets up, you have to really be on top of your game.   
 Q.  Will you take your experience from today into the weekend?  
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: Exactly.  That's exactly what I mean.  You prepare a certain way, and a lot of times you find the golf course plays different.  We played the U.S. Open this year, and it was dry, dry, dry, and then it just rained all day on Thursday.  Friday we had no idea what to do because we had prepared it completely differently.  In that sense it's good that you go out there.  For me at least, I didn't play very well today.  I didn't hit it as good as I did yesterday, but I managed to control the damage.  So in that sense, it's a lesson learned with not too much lost.  So I'll probably take that and try and add the ball striking to the game over the weekend.   
 Q.  How big was that birdie on 8?  
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: It was nice.  Actually as hard as that hole played yesterday, that's probably going to be one of the holes that you might see a few more birdies today just because of how the wind is.  It's a shorter club.  The wind is not as much from the side as it was early in the week.  But I hit a good shot.  Finally made a ten-footer.  It's been a grind on the greens for me.  I don't think I putted too badly, but just burnt a lot of lips.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT