WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 4, 2016
Anirban Lahiri
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A flash interview with:
ANIRBAN LAHIRI
Q. Beautiful round of golf and a beautiful up-and-down at the 9th hole here, your 18th.
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: Yes, it was nice to get out of jail there.  Obviously put it in the wrong spot on the tee but left myself a nice pitch, had the wind coming back.  Yeah, I hit it really good.
Q. I remember talking to you last year and I just noticed with your scores, they usually got better as the tournament progressed as you'd seen golf courses for the first time last year.  Are you more comfortable out here with more local knowledge?
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: I wouldn't say I already have local knowledge, but yes, I am adapting to the grasses the last few weeks now.  We have been on the West Coast, been playing a few months before, so I'm feeling a little more comfortable around the greens.  The touch is getting better.  I'm actually enjoying playing this golf course.
Q. How did you handle the 16th?  Talking about the atmosphere.
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: It's nothing that I have experienced before.  I have played in pretty much every big event.  That hole is obviously quite special.  The people make it so.
It was nice to make a 2.  Just to hear the crowd chanting "purple" was a little weird and strange, but I enjoyed it.
Q. The purple, it's not just purple pants but you have accented it with a purple reptile belt.
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: Well, I like to be colorful on the golf course.  And I love wearing what I'm wearing.  It makes me look good and feel good.
Q. Seven birdies was very colorful.  Well played.
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: Thank you.
Q. Great start to the tournament.  Can we get some comments on your round?
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: Yeah, I'm quite happy with the way I started.  Obviously got off to a good, solid start.  Found a lot of greens starting out.  A little bit disappointed with how I drove it.  I feel like I could have probably, you know, played a couple of shots better.  But the iron play was really good.  Felt really solid on the greens.
Q. First time here.  Impressions of the course?  Obviously a special 16.
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: I think the golf course is really good.  I think it's a good track because it rewards good shots and it does penalize you if you hit it in the wrong spots like I did find out a couple of times today.  I think it's a really good track.  If you're playing well, you can make a few birdies out there.
Q. What did you think of 16?
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: It's a special hole.  I have played pretty much -- yeah, it makes it special when you make 2 there.  The crowd gets behind you.  God help me if you make 4 or 5.  Let's hope I keep playing there in 2.
Q. How cold was it warming up this morning and on the first hole was the ball not flying at all?
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: It wasn't going very far.  Warming up, we kind of expected it with how it's been the last few days.  This was obviously the warmest it's been all week.  Playing in the afternoon tomorrow, so hopefully the rest of the week will be nice just like this.
Q. I see you're a devotee of [indiscernible] meditation?
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: That's right.
Q. How is that different?  What distinguishes that?
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: I mean, I think I could go and talk for hours on this, but just to, you know, break it down, you don't really use any mantras, don't visualize or you don't chant or anything like that.  You focus on your awareness and breathing and take it from there.  It's a process.
Q. How long have you been doing that?
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: About 11 years now.
Q. How often do you do it each day?
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: I wish I could do it twice a day, but I'm pretty happy with myself if I can do it three, four times a week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT