EURASIA CUP PRESENTED BY DRB-HICOM
January 17, 2016
Anirban Lahiri
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Tough week for you personally, but you'll be delighted to finish like that?  
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: It's been frustrating.  I've been not close to my best and just haven't seem to click in the foursomes or fourballs.  It was nice to get a point today and just play solid.   
 Q.  You obviously put strength out at the top end and you had to do well.  For a moment, it looked possible, but the tide was going against you today.  
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: It's been a week where the Europeans have really played well.  Hats off to them.  They have played as they should.  And I think we've got a lot of talent.  We've got a lot of potential, and this is going to be a big stepping stone for the future EurAsia Cups for us.   
 Q.  You were part of the extraordinary singles come back two years ago.  I think in a way, you're responsible for what's happened today, because you fired Europe up doing that.  
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: Yeah, it's good to see them being very, very serious about it.  I think that's one of the most positive things about this week.  And also, we are very young at team golf.  We've hardly played any golf, and you know, the machinery is something that needs to be set up over the next few years where we develop a system just like Europe and America have over the last two or three decades.  That's where we lack, the experience.  We need to set that system up.  We need to groom people for match play and I think that's going to happen, and this EurAsia Cup is going to trigger that.   
 Q.  Are there things you would do differently with the benefit of hindsight?  
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: We should have played better.  That's what we needed to do.  None of us really played our best over the last two days.  I think the Malaysian boys played out of their skins, great to see their contributions this week.   
I think the rest of us, we needed to do more.  We needed to pull more weight on the team, and we didn't do that.  And just I think we need to develop ourselves as team players.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT