CIMB CLASSIC
November 1, 2015
Anirban Lahiri
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Just sum up your week.
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: I don't know.  It makes me more disappointed that I didn't get any momentum going today.  It was a bad round of golf.  I didn't birdie many holes.
Having said that, it's not a bad week.  It's a decent week, but definitely not what I had hoped for.  Looking forward, obviously, I've got three more weeks to go.  Decent start, I guess.
Q. How do you plan to go about playing the big events?
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: I honestly don't know right now.  The thing is, as things stand, I'm exempt in Europe until 2017.  I'll have exemption in Asia as well, at least to 2017.
So, the focus has got to be to try and play more in America and, yeah, ideally that's where you want to play.  As a professional golfer, you want to play at the highest level.  As of today, the PGA TOUR is the highest level.
So if I want to get better as a professional, if I want to have my career go in the right direction, which is to play well in the Majors and WGC's, then I've got to be in America.  So that's going to take priority over everything else.
The European Tour and the Asian Tour will come after the PGA TOUR, obviously.  Having said that, I really enjoy being here, playing here, it feels like home.  So I will definitely look to come and play at least five or six events next year.  When I will play those events, which events will those be will depend on how my year pans out.  But right now I can't really comment on that.
Q. What didn't quite go your way this week?
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: I don't know.  I wasn't -- I didn't hit my irons very good this week.  I think that has been my strength over the last few weeks, but this week my iron play wasn't very good.
Caught a few bad breaks also.  Ended up in a couple of spots where it could have gone either way and unfortunately, I ended up in a tough spot.
Didn't really make bunches of birdies, what I talked about yesterday.  I shot 2-under today, but I made only four birdies.  And on this golf course, you can get on a run, as you've seen a lot of guys going really deep.
So, I guess the par-5s, I wasn't that good.  Usually, when you come out here you want to be at least 10-under for the par-5s alone, and I haven't been able to do that.  So a few areas where I failed to capitalize, I guess.
Q. So looking forward to next week now?
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: Yeah, I am.  I am looking forward to next week.  I'm happy with the way my body's responded this week.  Today was probably the hardest day of the week.  I'm still feeling fine, so that's a good sign for me.  Rest up and rewind, recharge, let's go for next week then.
Q. With Hendy and Chia finishing below you, it seems like the Order of Merit is almost wrapped up.  Although, there's still a mathematical chance of them winning five in a row and doing it but that's a remote chance.
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: We'll see.  Funnier things have happened.
I'm, obviously, really thrilled with the way I've played all year.  I played pretty consistently.
If a disappointing week is shooting 14-under and finishing 19th in a PGA TOUR event, then that's a good sign for me.
So, hopefully, if things do go my way, it will be fantastic to win the Order of Merit.  It's been something that I wanted to do, it's been something that has eluded me.  So when the time comes, if that does happen, it will be a very special moment for me.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT