CIMB CLASSIC
October 29, 2015
Anirban Lahiri
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Just thoughts on your day for today.
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: Yeah, satisfied with a 70.  I think I struggled all day.  Never got on a run.  Just came out in the morning and didn't start very well.  All in all, quite disappointed, actually.
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: The course is playing really gettable.  You can see from the scoring that there's a lot of birdies to be made.  There's no rough.
The greens are a little softer than they are usually.  So, obviously, I feel like I shot a couple over par, honestly, to how the course is playing today specifically with no wind.
But I'm still happy that I at least managed to finish with a birdie, because it was a struggle all day.
Q. Was there anything holding you back today?
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: Not really.  I never just got any momentum going.  I think this golf course, you have to take advantage of the scoring holes, especially when you get to the front nine.
You want to make three or four early birdies on those first five, six holes, because you can even make eagle, because they're pretty gettable.  And I didn't take those chances.
I didn't make too many putts from 10, 15 feet.  So a little disappointed, obviously.
Q. Must be nice to be playing with your Presidents Cup teammate?
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: Yeah, Hideki and me are very good friends.
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: Sergio is also a great guy to play with.  It was very friendly, lots of chatting on the golf course.
But it was, yeah, I mean, I've gotten through day one, I haven't put myself out of it, but I'm going to need to start making some birdies tomorrow.
Q. Early this week we talked about energy levels.  How was the energy levels for you today?
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: It's been good so far.  Obviously, I've been nice to myself.  I haven't over exerted.
Just played 11 holes or 10 holes yesterday going into today.
So I think a little bit, maybe a shot here or there because I didn't play a full practice round, a bunker shot and a chip there that I could have hit closer.  So a little disappointed with that, but I'm not complaining.
Q. Talk us through the last birdie.
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: It was just a really good number for me.  With the wind behind, it was just about five yards more than my regular 9-iron, so I just needed to make a good solid swing and get it in the air and let the wind kind of push it for me.  One of the better swings I made today.
A lot of my iron shots, I just didn't make very good swings and left myself 20, 25 feet.  So it was nice to hit one and in close and make putt there.
Q. How far was it?
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: I don't think it was more than five, six feet, I think.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT