UBS HONG KONG OPEN
October 24, 2015
Anirban Lahiri
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What are your thoughts on the way you played today, particularly the back nine when you got it going?
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: It was good.  I think on the front nine, I was not very focused I think just to start.  Just calmed down a little bit.  By the eighth, ninth home I started hitting it a little more solid.  Got up-and-down a couple times when I missed.  It was good to get birdies on 10 and 11.  Kind of got me in the right zone mentally.  I was just focusing on giving myself opportunities, and it was good.
Q. Not like you to be unfocused, is it?
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: Maybe a bit too much coffee in the morning.
Q. What was it, other things just going on in your mind rather than concentrating?
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: No, no, no, not that.  Obviously I'm giving it 100 percent.  I'm focusing on what I need to do.  But sometimes it's important just to quiet your mind down.  I was glad that I was able to do that, and I got a way without much damage when I wasn't 100 per cent calm and focused like I should be.
But it's good that it came back at the right time.  I needed to start making a run because everybody is playing good today.
Q. Were you conscious of the top two, for instance, pulling away?
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: I saw that.  You want to get as close as possible, because if it gets into a match-play position, then they can play totally differently and separate themselves from the field, which has probably already happened.
But hopefully I can play some good golf, play 18 holes tomorrow like I did on the back nine and maybe have a sniff.
Q. Presumably you can draw on other occasions this season.  You've really shot low on occasion, haven't you?
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: Yeah, I've been playing great and I've been hitting it really good.  That back nine today was evidence of that.
Definitely putted a lot better today than the first two days, so I'm just going to keep working on that, hopefully drain a few more tomorrow.
Q. And an awful lot more to be thankful for, considering where you were this time last year.
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: Yeah, it's a great spot.  Obviously it's nice to be playing well, especially in this second half of the year, because there's a lot of big events, lots of World Ranking points at stake, so you can really make a move, and that's what I'm trying to do.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT