THE PRESIDENTS CUP
October 11, 2015
Anirban Lahiri
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Was very close all along.  No more than 2-down.  You hung in there.  Got it all square.  Talk about your emotions throughout the day, especially on the back nine.  
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: Was really trying to focus really hard on turning it around.  I haven't had any momentum all week really.  Today was similar.  Didn't play too badly.  But just didn't get anything going.   
I was lucky to get a hole back on 12 when Chris made a mistake there.  Then the birdie on 14 was really important for me as well.   
14, 16, 17, it was all close.  Could have been either way.  We both had putts.   
On 18 I guess wasn't meant to be, unfortunately.   
 Q.  Did you rush the putt?  
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: No, not at all.  I was pretty sure what the line was and I made a good stroke.  But I think I did what I've done all week:  Misread putts.   
I had Bubba Watson come up to me about a minute after we finished up and he said that he had done the same exact thing.   
Both of us thought -- I guess.  I don't know about his putt.  I didn't see it.  It looked like right in to me.  That's why I hit it.  Went left to right and caught a big part of the lip.  Spat it out.   
I have to give credit to Chris for making that putt.  These things are scripted I guess, and I wasn't in the script this time.   
 Q.  Did his birdie at the last change things a little bit for you?  
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: Not really.  I mean, it's hard to say whether it changed how I hit my putt.  I probably don't think so.   
I knew that the half point was equally important.  The full point would've been I guess game changing, but the half point would've also given us a little more of a chance.  Then Moon wouldn't have to win his two holes.  Even if he won one means we get over the line.   
I knew when I missed it that it was now going to be really, really hard.  It would've needed a Miracle for Moon.  He's been fantastic all week.  He should be proud.   
 Q.  Going to be able to pick yourself up from this straightaway?  I don't have much choice, do I?  I'm heading to Macao tomorrow afternoon.  This is certainly not how I would've wanted to have my first Presidents Cup play out.  
 I do feel terrible right now obviously.  It's going to be hard for me to sleep tonight, I think.  I'm sure the rest of the team is going to help me out with that with the evening's festivities.   
 Yeah, disappointing week overall.  I think the internationals played well.  Branden was unbelievable, Louis was unbelievable.  Both of them going undefeated.  Obviously super disappointed with how I played.   
 I guess I'll be better prepared next time.   
 Q.  Very first President's Cup and in the heat of it here on Sunday singles.  How did this final day play out for you?  
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: I would like to rewind and just change the last ten seconds of it.  No, I think it wasn't meant to be.  I can't feel too bad because I didn't hit a bad putt; didn't go in.   
I have to give credit to Chris as well.  The team played great.  Obviously I'm disappointed with my week.   
Hopefully I get a chance to redeem myself in years to come.   
 Q.  After you guys played your third shot from left the green where did you think the advantage was, and how did it change after Chris made the putt?  
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: Well, it was obvious, wasn't it?  You got one guy at three and a half feet and another guy looking at a 15-and-a-half-footer downhill.   
He made a great putt.  I honestly don't think it changed how I looked at my putt because it's a three and a half-footer.  You look at it, pick a line, make a putt.   
That's what I did and it didn't go in.  That's how the cookie crumbles.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT