THE PRESIDENTS CUP
October 10, 2015
Anirban Lahiri
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Overall thoughts?  
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: Yeah, we are only one point behind I guess.  They can pull a rabbit out of the hat, but it looks most like we will be one back, which is still a good position to be in.   
Obviously disappointed, the front nine, pretty much every single time I had a look at a birdie, I missed it.  Just made the one birdie on 10.  So really disappointed with not being able to make birdies, but I definitely thought I could have made at least another four birdies today.   
And never a good feeling to lose.  I think Adam, also, played really good, but he had the case of the cold putter, as well.  So wasn't good enough unfortunately.  Phil and Zach played pretty good.  They always got out of trouble.  They made their share of birdies.  Disappointed but hopefully I can contribute tomorrow.   
On Thursday, we were trying our hearts out.  All of us have given 110 percent every day.  Even the guys who are not playing are out there, because this means as much to all 12 of us.  But yes, I think we struggled on Thursday to get any momentum going, and it is a case of a little bit of inexperience, at least on Thursday it was.   
I was glad to be out there with Adam.  He was very encouraging and obviously great influence out on the course.   Didn't help that neither of us made any putts.  Match play comes down to just that.  I heard Hideki and Sangmoon blitzed the course and Hideki pretty much made everything he looked at.  And on Thursday, Rickie did the same when he played against us.  He made everything that he looked at.   
So I think that's what I'm going to need tomorrow, a hot putter, and that has just not been the case since I've gotten here on Sunday evening, unfortunately.  So I've got to try and find something on the greens that's going to make me comfortable.  I haven't been anywhere near even my B putting game, so to speak.  It's been terrible.   
I don't feel like I'm putting too bad, but I just misread it.  Hopefully tomorrow is a different story.   
 Q.  Clearly Adam is a leader.  
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: He's the most experienced.   
 Q.  Four different partners in four different sessions.  How is it playing with him?  
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: I think it's probably because he's taken on more of a mental role, even though he's not playing at his peak right now -- not like he's not hitting it good.  He's hitting it fabulous.  But he's probably the one person on the team that wants it more than anybody else, because he's been denied victory six times before this, and that's not a good feeling.   
 Q.  How has it been in the team room?  
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: It's been fantastic.  I've made a lot of good friends.   We are all very much on the same page.  We are all enjoying ourselves.  And I think we find ourselves after the first day, I think we find ourselves in a position where we can look at actually winning this.   
 Q.  Everybody is talking about the fact that this edition is going to be reviving The Presidents Cup because the Americans have dominated, but this has been close for the first three days and who knows what will happen.  
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: It's going to be another close contest tomorrow I think.  I think everybody's hungrier than they have ever been before.  And I think that all of us are playing well.  I've not played my best so far, but I don't think that I'm very far away from it.  Today, the way I hit it on the front nine, it was pretty good.  So I just need to get one or two to go in and get on a roll.   
 Q.  You saw all kind of weather today over the last three days.  
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: Yeah, it's probably good for us if the weather is bad tomorrow.  I think there's more of us who have played in adverse conditions on The European Tour, etc., etc.  I'm really comfortable, regardless what the weather is, I'll be fine.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT