THE PRESIDENTS CUP
October 8, 2015
Anirban Lahiri
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Obviously not the way you wanted to start your Presidents Cup debut?  
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: No, no, no, I think both Thongchai and me were nowhere close to our best.  We both struggled, and I think we just lost momentum.  There were opportunities that I could have made a few more putts definitely, and then I think on the back nine we just let it all get away from us really quick.   
 Q.  Rickie got hot, didn't he?  
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: Yeah, he putted great all day.  If I'm not mistaken, he must have made about six or seven one-putts today, and none of them were inside of ten feet.  Maybe eight or ten foot was probably the shortest of those seven that he made.  So it helps when you're playing match play, especially when you're playing alternate shots because there's only one putt.  It's not four-ball best ball where your partner's also got a chance at it.   
So first hole we had an opportunity, didn't take it.  Second, I didn't make it.  Third we went from a position of strength and suddenly we found ourselves three down through four.  Yeah, I think I let one get away from me on 7, the par-5.  That was an important putt because we could have gotten some momentum back.  But, yeah, very disappointed to finish the way we did.   
 Q.  When you say you could have made a bit more putts, are you being a bit harsh on yourself?  It's two people together.  
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: No, not really.  When you play badly, you want to assume as much responsibility for it.  I guess, that's natural.  I'm sure Thongchai feels the same way.  It's one of those days, and we just didn't play well.   
We didn't make a single birdie in 14 holes, and we hit 13.  I mean, we only missed one fairway on 10.  We hit every fairway apart from that and did not make a birdie.  So that tells you that we didn't putt well, and that's what you need.   
 Q.  So feelings when you were on the first tee, a big moment in Presidents Cup?  
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: Yeah, it was fantastic, obviously, to be out there in team colors.  But I'm not really thinking about any of that now.  It feels like a long time ago suddenly.  Just focusing on what's left in front of us and making comeback now.   
 Q.  Still 25 points to play for, right?  
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: Absolutely.  It's a long ways to go.  It's not an ideal start.  You don't want to find yourself chasing, but now that we are in that position, we're going to Chase it down.   
 Q.  So after you finish, you were still out there?  
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: Yeah, of course.  I was out there rooting for my teammates.  That is the spirit in which we play this week.  You don't just play for yourself.  You play for the team, and unfortunately I didn't play my best today, and hopefully I come up with my game whenever I'm asked to.   
 Q.  So Jason and Steve really took it right to the 18th.  
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: Yeah, it was a big effort from Jason on 17 to make that putt.  That's a lot of positivity for the rest of the team to draw on.  I think that's more of what we need to do over the next three days if we are to get a hand on the trophy.  So, yeah, hopefully we can all get shots like that when it matters.   
 Q.  Is it a matter of experience?  
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: Yeah, probably, probably.  I think it was a new thing for both Thongchai.  He's obviously a lot more experienced than I am, but a different stage.  Not a very common format, so, yeah.  It was what it was.  Unfortunate, but lots to look forward to.   
 Q.  Hearing The National Anthem of India playing last night, that must have been very special?  
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: It was very special.  Extremely special.  There's not a lot of times in your career that that will happen, and the times that it does happen it really makes you feel like all the effort, everything that you've put into it -- not just you.  Your family, your team, your coach, your physio, your trainer, anyone and everyone that's contributed to your effort in any way, it makes all of that worth it, because that is what working hard for that and giving things up.  That is what you're putting yourself out there for and nothing compares to that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT