PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 16, 2015
Anirban Lahiri
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. The bogey at 18 was not so much, but it's been a great week for you.  Best finish by a golfer from India in Major Championship history.
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: It's been a fantastic week.  It started off with the long drive on Tuesday and, yeah, it's been fantastic.  I've loved the golf course right from the first day and first look.  But obviously a little disappointed with that finish.  I think a couple of shots better would have got my card on the PGA TOUR.  So a little bummed about that.
Q. How was it out there playing with Matt Kuchar?
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: He's a fun guy.  He's very relaxed.  Obviously a great player, very experienced.  I enjoyed it, him and Lance both.  Great guys.
Q. What do you take away from your week here?
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: A massive amount of confidence, knowing that I can be out here mixing it up with the best, knowing that I need to get just a little bit better to maybe get closer or over the line in the future.  So it's been a huge week for me.
Q. That was your best Major finish.  How does it feel?
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: It feels great.  It's a bit of a relief, really.  I've never really gotten into contention.  I won't really say I was in contention here, because I was a long ways out.  But I was in the mix.  It's a great feeling.
Q. From everything that you have worked on this week and everything that you were able to get into a groove, how does it carry on?  How does it boost your game?
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: It's massive for me.  It gives me so much confidence.  It also tells me that I can compete with the best on the toughest courses and the best fields.  Also tells me that I need to get just a little bit better and maybe I'll be back here more often.
Q. Was there any specific aspect of your game that you want to work on?
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: Well, I putted a lot better today.  But it's obviously the scoring aspect that I feel is lacking a little bit.  I think that's where I need to tighten it up, just around the greens and make a few more 10- and 12-footers.  That should do the trick.
Q. Did you find yourself looking at the leaderboard?
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: Not too much.  I think that I was playing -- I was really in a good zone.  I was playing well, I was hitting it good.
Then I think the 3-putt on 10 from five or six feet, I think that just, that was like a kick in the stomach for me.  It just knocked the wind out of me.
Then I did really well to gather myself from a difficult position, I made birdie on 11.  Kind of steadied the boat a little bit.  But again, kind of disappointed to finish in the end.  But I wasn't really looking at the leaderboard much because it was so bunched up, guys were going back and forth, so there was no point.
Q. Do you feel that there's more pressure on you, going to be more pressure on you now?
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: No, I don't think so.  I think this is more of a pressure reliever than anything else.  And I don't mean pressure from the media or people back home, pressure from myself.  Because I know I'm good enough to compete out here.  But I've not seen anything that would suggest that.  And this week kind of puts that to rest and I can come out here and play more freely, not having to prove anything to myself.
Q. This is the best Major finish by anyone from India.  How do you view that?  Will it take some time for that to sink in in terms of historical relevance?
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: It's good.  It's fantastic.  I think that if it gets a few more people to watch golf through the night when we play in a tournament out here, I'll be happy.
Obviously on a personal front, I'm very happy with how I played this week.  It's been consistent and I didn't really feel out of place.  I think that's a massive positive for me.  I felt really comfortable whoever I was playing with and whenever I was playing and whatever I was doing.  I felt very much at home.  I think that's a good sign for me.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT