PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 15, 2015
Anirban Lahiri
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How does it feel?  
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: It feels good.  Woke up this morning and checked all the social media.  Obviously it's a big day back home, Independence Day.  So it's nice to play well in the morning.  Hopefully I can come back and play well in the afternoon.   
 Q.  Was the course nice and soft for you?  
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: I think it is obviously a little bit softer.  Also because it's the morning.  Not just because of the rain, because there wasn't much, honestly, it kind of blew over pretty quick.  But when you come out in the morning, the greens are obviously rolling the best and it's playing a little bit softer.  It might be a little longer in the morning, as compared to the afternoon, but you can obviously be a little more aggressive going into the greens.   
 Q.  Did you want to come out this morning and really take advantage of these conditions?  
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: Not really, I mean, the game plan's been the same.  It was always about coming out and hitting fairways and I'm happy that I hit a lot of fairways in my second round.  That's very important on this golf course.  If you can keep doing that, you can go at some pins and you can hit a lot of greens.  So, that's got to be the strategy.   
 Q.  How much confidence do you take from three birdies in a row and just moving up the leaderboard this morning?  
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: It was good.  I was a little frustrated yesterday because even in the afternoon I think the conditions were good for scoring.  I hit a lot of fairways, but I just didn't seem to hit them close enough, or when I did I just didn't make enough putts.  I felt like I could have played really well in the 13 holes that I played yesterday.  So, I guess it was nice to just get some sleep and calm down and just come back and focus.  So that was good.   
 Q.  It's been a great year so far for you, how much do you feel you belong in these sort of tournaments?  
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: Well, I've played every WGC and every Major, so obviously I belong here because I wouldn't be playing otherwise.  I feel like I can compete.  It's good to finally have evidence of that this week.  But, yeah, we're only halfway through.   
 Q.  Are you enjoying these tournaments?  
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: Yeah, obviously.  I mean, you enjoy it, you soak in all the experience, you play all these great tracks, especially this one, it's probably got to be my favorite track so far in America.  So, you take all of it in and you keep learning.  That's been something that has happened this year to me, because I played a lot of new tracks, a lot of different conditions and it's been a good learning experience.  I'm finally beginning to come to terms with the different grasses in America, but it's taken about eight or nine events.   
 Q.  What are you going to do during the break?  
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: It looks like I'm going to be playing in the afternoon, so I'm probably going to head back to Sheboygan, which is where I'm staying, and maybe not take a nap but just lie down.   
 Q.  Tony Finau said it was good to be able to get out here this morning and kind of see what's going on.  And he thinks it will give him some momentum coming back in the afternoon.  Do you think there's an advantage there?  
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: Well, I think the course is playing really well.  There hasn't been a massive difference in how the course has played.  Obviously, the wind's a factor that can come and go, but in terms of how the greens are rolled out or how the fairways have rolled out or the roughs have held up, the bunkers, they have all been very, very consistent.  So there's not that much that's going to change.   
But if you can come out in the morning and have a good four or five hole stretch, like Tony and I did this morning, it just gets you going and gets you focused for the second half.  Obviously it's going to be a long day for a lot of us, with a 4 o'clock wake up call.  So you've got to pace yourself and focus all day.   
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: The fifth hole, I hit it, I found the fairway and I hit my 3-wood just over the green, a couple yards over the back and 2-putted from there.   
On 6, they had the tees up, so I hit my driver, but 10 or 15 yards was short of the green.  Chipped it to about four or five feet.   
And on 7, I hit a great shot.  I think that's probably the best shot I've hit all of my second round, not just today.  224, I think it was playing.  I hit my 4-iron to about five feet.  And I tapped that in.  So that was a good stretch there.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT