THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 16, 2015
Anirban Lahiri
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Talk about the tough conditions.  ANIRBAHN LAHIRI: Yeah, I think by the time we got to the back nine, it was really blowing.  The front nine mostly was playing downwind, so most of those holes were not much of a problem.  It was quite hard.  I think I hit some of the best iron shots I've hit in months to make those two birdies on 14 and 15.  A little disappointed.  I would have loved to have finished with a 3 on 18, but if somebody said you shoot level par on that back nine today when we got to the 10th tee, I would have taken it.   Q.  The only disappointing part of the back nine would be the 12th hole, I guess?  ANIRBAHN LAHIRI: Yeah, it was -- yeah.  You know, it's just how it happens sometimes.  You get these putts which are downwind and side wind and against the wind.  I just didn't cater for enough downwind and hit it a little bit further than I needed to.  Those pins on the back nine weren't easy, too.  They were put in tight corners.  To give yourself a relatively simple birdie putt, even from 25 or 30 feet, wasn't easy.  You had to hit quality golf shots.  Every time you didn't, you were under serious pressure to make par.  I'm glad at least I made a couple really good swings and hit it close and made a couple of birdies.  That was very important.   Q.  You're definitely in a very good position going into tomorrow.  Are you quite confident?  ANIRBAHN LAHIRI: Well, I'm glad I played good today.  Everybody has been talking like it's Armageddon for tomorrow.  You don't really quite know what to expect.  You obviously don't want to be over par and behind going into that kind of weather, so in that sense I'm happy with my effort today.  It was a new experience.  I don't think I've played in these conditions as much as I would have liked, so I learnt a lot.  Hopefully that helps tomorrow.  I mean, I have no idea what the weather is going to be like, but I think that's going to be the main factor.   Q.  You're the highest ranked Asian; how does that make you feel?  ANIRBAHN LAHIRI: It makes me feel good, obviously.  I know I played pretty solidly today.  I hope more of us do better than I did today going into the next three days, and hopefully one of us can get into the mix on Sunday.  That would be great.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT