MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 10, 2015
Anirban Lahiri
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Tough day on the golf course. 
ANIRBAN LAHIRI:   Yeah, it was.   I got off to a terrible start, 3 and 4 and then followed that up with 6.   I didn't execute my plans at all.   Obviously I was not able to focus as well as I would have liked.   I think that also kind of happened because I got wrong footed with a few bogeys early on.
I think I fought back well, but I just hit so many loose shots today.   It was disappointing to drop so many shots today.   But I'm happy that I managed to make it through to the weekend.

Q.   (Inaudible.)
ANIRBAN LAHIRI:   Like I said, I wasn't happy with the way I was driving it.   I didn't hit my irons all that bad today, but just put myself in very poor positions off the tee.   But when I did put myself in good position off the tee I did well on those holes.   And I need to do more of that.

Q.   It was a bit of a roller coaster and even more on the back nine?
ANIRBAN LAHIRI:   Yeah, I think 14 really hurt me.   13 obviously I got a little lucky.   I pulled it a little bit and didn't catch the trees and came out to a really good spot.   Made a good putt, finally made a putt outside of ten feet. 
But on 14, probably the worst swing of the week off the tee.   And I have to admit I was nervous on the back nine and I made some poor swings.   And I didn't focus as well as I would have liked.
Having said that, I'm glad I've got that out of the way.   And I'm going to have to look to improve over the weekend.

Q.   You came up with some remarkable shots.   You were actually playing in the trees, and you missed each and every branch out there, and then the final chip on the 18th. 
ANIRBAN LAHIRI:   I think I got lucky a couple of times.   You try to hit the golf shot that you see.   And sometimes you don't hit it absolutely perfect.   The one on 17 wasn't perfect and I did get a slice of luck, it didn't catch the trees.   There was quite a few, and it ended up in a really good spot.   I'm fortunate about that.
I think even though I was on the fairway there was overhanging branch, and I didn't really have a clear shot.   I was trying to cut it.   And couldn't cut it enough, obviously, came up left.   Probably the best chip of the day was actually in a terrible lie.   And me and my caddie were contemplating running it all the way to the right trap and bringing it back off that slope.   But then I I'm glad I pulled it off.   It was a tough chip. 

Q.   Do you know what the cut is going to be?
ANIRBAN LAHIRI:   Yeah, I think when I got to the 18th tee I knew that it should be two.   It's unlikely for that to move to three.   But you don't want to think about that.   You said that I've been missing it left, which is why I hit a 3‑wood off the 18th, just to make sure that I keep myself in play.
So I'm glad that my head was working, if my swing wasn't, that's a good sign for me.   Hopefully both work tomorrow.

Q.   You were saying earlier in the week that really your objective was to make it to the weekend.   And it looks right now as you were just describing that you have. 
ANIRBAN LAHIRI:   Yeah. 

Q.   Considering you got there and granted you are disappointed with the round, but are you content overall with the fact that you will be playing Saturday and Sunday golf?
ANIRBAN LAHIRI:   Absolutely.   You want to play all the majors.   You want to play well in them.   But you can't play well in them if you don't play four days. 
So, you know, I've given myself that opportunity now.   If I have a good weekend I can definitely move up a few spots.   And I have to focus on doing that.   Obviously this is just step 2.   Like you mentioned, I would have liked to have done much better than I did today.   But also I'm looking forward to the weekend.

Q.   Is it sometimes okay to have a bad day but not do yourself too much damage, in other words, you know, you're here, you're coming back for the weekend and yet you're clearly not happy yet with the way you played, but you're coming back for the weekend?
ANIRBAN LAHIRI:   Yeah, that's the thing.   You can't play your best golf every day.   There are times when that happens or a stretch.   Jordan is probably in one of them right now.   And I know what it's like to feel like that. 
But when you're not a hundred percent on top of your game, and I've not been this week, you know, you want to stay there and you want to keep playing as much as you can, and waiting for that to come to you.   And I think I need to be a little more patient and focus a little bit more tomorrow.   Obviously I was a bit distracted today.   But I'm happy. 

Q.   This is a special place anytime you're here.   But I've been here many weekends, and it's pretty magical to be a part of that theater. 
ANIRBAN LAHIRI:   Well, it will be good to experience it.   It will be good to experience Saturday and Sunday here and hopefully experience it in that numbers.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT