TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 23, 2018
Anirban Lahiri
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Some quality ball striking out there again at TPC River Highlands?  
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: Yeah, it was a day of contrast.  I think that front nine I missed everything right and I felt totally out of sorts.  I think my short game and my scrambling on the front side just kept me alive.  I think I hit a really good one on 11, almost made a hole in one, and that kind of really got my round going because up until that point I had missed a few greens and wasn't feeling great.  So that, obviously was good.   
Got a bounce on 13, that helps.  I think after that I just got locked in and hit a lot of good shots.   
 Q.  How encouraging is that though for Sunday when you know you don't have the top of your game with you, but you're still hanging in there throughout the round and you're right in the thick of it for Sunday in this championship?  
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: It feels good.  It's something that hasn't happened a lot this year.  I'm working on a few new things mentally, and I think that's good.  I was pretty calm and focused the whole day, despite whatever else was going on.  So I think that really carried me through the round.   
Yeah, I'm excited about tomorrow.  I like this golf course.  Last year was my first time, and I'm probably going to come back every year.  So, yeah, we'll see how it goes.   
Yeah, started out good, obviously.  Birdied the first, and gave one away on 2.  I think early in the round I hadn't quite adjusted.  The greens were really quick and they had that little bit of moisture, and it was getting a little bit -- didn't hit a lot of fairways on the front, so just tried to get up-and-down and kind of grind it out.   
Then I hit a really good one on 11, almost holed out, and I think that really got my round going.  After that I was pretty locked in and really happy to come in strong.   
 Q.  Speaking of 11, did you see it track all the way?  
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: Oh, yeah.  I think as I got over it, there was a little gust of wind that kind of came in and I was glad, because I had taken half a club extra.  Because the pin was in a really precarious place, you had to kind of go long because there was a bunker just before it.   
So when the wind came I said, okay, this is nice now because I can hit a normal shot.  And I hit it, and it just held up perfectly.  So, yeah, it looked good.  I'll take 2 on that hole any day.   
 Q.  What will be the key to tomorrow?  
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: Well, I think I've got to go out there and stay focused.  There are a lot of birdies to be made.  You can get on a hot stretch like I did today on the back nine.  Obviously, I feel comfortable with my game.  I feel comfortable on this golf course.  I think it sets up nicely.  I have all the shots that I need for this track, so, I mean, it just depends on how it goes, and we're going to keep doing the same thing that I'm doing and hopefully make a bunch of putts.   
 Q.  I know you've been close before, but what would the importance be for you to potentially win on the PGA TOUR?  
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: Well, it's obviously one of my goals.  It's something that I set out to do when I moved base here two-and-a-half years ago.  It hasn't been a special season so far, so obviously there's never a bad time to win.   
When it comes, it comes.  I've got to keep doing what I'm doing, and if I keep moving in the right direction, it will come sooner rather than later.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT