CIMB CLASSIC
November 2, 2014
Anirban Lahiri
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Reflect on your week.   
ANIRBAN LAHIRI:   Very disappointed.   Played nowhere near my potential.   I just really struggled around the greens, made a lot of birdies, but dropped so many shots.   
Just all week there was no momentum.   Every time I made a couple of birdies, I did a couple of bad shots.   It's just been that kind of week.   I just haven't got anything going, and every time I did, came in my own way.  
   
 Q.   Was it just a case of patience around the golf course?  
ANIRBAN LAHIRI:   No, not really.   Not really.   I think after last week I was expecting myself to play better.   And maybe a little bit of that.   
I don't know.   It's difficult to say.   Like I said, I just couldn't get focused enough to play consistently over six hours every day.   
You know, I had places where I played well and then a stretch where I played terribly, and just a few holes here and there cost me.   I think the second day, you know, 11, 12, 13, played the stretch really badly, and that kind of just blew my tournament up a little bit.  
Having said that, it was a great week, good opportunity.   Obviously terribly disappointed to have played so poorly this week, but that's golf.   Last week was great, this week was very disappointing.   I just need to pick myself up with another good week next week, try and play my best next week.  
   
 Q.   Was it tough coming into this week, considering you won last week, all the expectations on you?  
ANIRBAN LAHIRI:   Not really.   I think it's more to do with my own expectations.   You know, I expected myself to play better, play more consistently, and you know, I just‑‑ I was nowhere near my game right from the start.   
I just couldn't get focused and then string together six, eight, nine good holes.   I'd have just too many loose shots.   I hit 15 greens today and shot over par, and that's been my story.   I've been hitting it 10, 15 feet and just not even coming close.   So I need to turn that around, work a little bit on my putting next week.  
I had great difficulty adjusting to the greens this week, which is disappointing considering again that I played it a lot.   So lots of negatives this week that I need to work on and turn into strengths.  
   
 Q.   Thank you so much.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT