CIMB CLASSIC
October 29, 2014
Anirban Lahiri
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Thank you for joining us, Anirban.   Currently second on the Order of Merit, won your first Asian Tour title last week in Macao.   Well done and congratulations.   Just your thoughts coming into this week, carrying a lot of confidence with you, as well.
ANIRBAN LAHIRI:   Thanks.   Yeah, last week was a big positive for me.   In a lot of ways I needed to start making a move in the World Rankings and also try to catch up to David a little bit, so it was a very good result for me.   This is a very important week, again, similar reasons, lots to play for.   I'm playing well.   I'm quite confident in how I'm playing, so I'm really looking forward to doing well this week, as well.

Q.   This is a golf course you've played on before.   Talk a little bit about the golf course and what's the key to playing well here? 
ANIRBAN LAHIRI:   You know, in the last few years, it's usually been about keeping it on the fairways.   The roughs are brutal, and because of the rain it gets wet, and if it's wet, it's very difficult to control the ball.   This week, of course, the roughs are not as bad as they have been in the past, and the greens are a little bit softer because of all the rain.
I think the course is, again, set up very well for scoring, so you'll have to really make a lot of birdies this week. 

Q.   How crucial will it be for you to finish ahead of David Lipsky this week? 
ANIRBAN LAHIRI:   You know, it's difficult for me to go out on the golf course and just play with a result in mind.   Obviously it's an important week in terms of where the Order of Merit goes.   It's not just me.   It's such a big event that anyone behind us, as well, who finishes maybe top three will have a great chance.   So for me personally, I have to just look to play well.   Obviously the Order of Merit is something that I would like to win.   But having said that, there are other goals, other targets.   I'm not going to let that play on my mind so much, just focus on playing solid golf for four days.   I think if I can do that, the results will take care of themselves. 

Q.   Have you recovered from the Eurasia Cup?   What a great event that was and the part that you played.   Does it make any difference to you who you're playing with?   Tomorrow I think you're playing with Matsuyama and Dufner.   Is that a formidable pair, or does it not make any difference? 
ANIRBAN LAHIRI:   It's a really good pairing.   I really enjoy playing with good players and players of Dufner and Matsuyama's caliber.   They're world‑class players, so I'm really looking forward to that.   I think it just adds to the motivation of me playing my best, and as far as recovery is concerned, I think Malaysia has been really good to me this year, whether it was the Eurasia Cup or Selangor.   So it's nice to be back here, and even when I played the Malaysian Open here, I finished top 10 for the first time, so some good, positive memories from the golf course, as well.
So it's just nice to be back.   Obviously lots of‑‑ confidence is high, but come tomorrow, I'll just have to knuckle down and focus and just try and zone in for 72 holes. 

Q.   I think we spoke in Macau last week about the progress that you've made in the last four years.   When you look back now could you tell us how and what has it taken you to get to this level? 
ANIRBAN LAHIRI:   It's a lot of small steps.   You can't just go to sleep and wake up a different player the next morning.   I think I've learned a lot over the last four years.   I won my first event in I think 2011, and between that victory and between my victory last week, I've seen such a big difference in the kind of golf that I'm playing now. 
It's been a step‑by‑step graduation for me.   I've learnt how to become a better player, how to play different courses.   The major experience of playing the three majors that I have so far has helped a lot.   I've played with a lot of good players, top class players, learned from watching them play. 
I think it's been a good, gradual, steady progression for me.   Overall I think my game has improved in all departments, and obviously I need to keep working on pushing my game further and further so that I can consistently play at a world level. 

Q.   What sort of opportunities do the players like yourself see this week? 
ANIRBAN LAHIRI:   I think that's one of the great things about playing in Asia.   Apart from the fact that we have a great Tour here, we have a lot of opportunities on higher Tours, as well.   We have a number of co‑sanctioned events with Europe, and has happened in the last two events, two of our members are now winners on the European Tour.   This week is another fantastic opportunity.   It's a good way to get on the PGA TOUR.   I came really close last year, and it just shows you that there is a great opportunity to be had.   I think we're all very glad to be here and to be playing in such a fantastic event with a good field, and obviously if you can play your best, you can earn that opportunity to play in America, which I don't know about the others, but personally is definitely one of my goals. 
You know, I'm really glad to be here, and hopefully I can put in that special performance this week. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, Anirban.   Good luck this week.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT