EURASIA CUP PRESENTED BY DRB-HICOM
March 29, 2014
Gaganjeet Bhullar
Kim Hyung-Sung
Thongchai Jaidee
Anirban Lahiri
Prayad Marksaeng
Siddikur Rahman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   In your match, it also started the turnaround for the team and you were 2‑ or 3‑down and then you got it around, can you give us a little bit more about your game‑‑  
PRAYAD   MARKSAENG:   First of all, I just try to play my game and still happy.   What I think at that time is just keep up my own game and try my best to keep a score and to keep it well.   Doesn't matter if play well or not, but my game has to be good and then I have to continue playing this game until finish as long as I can.   
ANIRBAN LAHIRI:   Looking at the board, I think Thongchai masterminded the draw, I think that was one of the key factors today.   The draw was great and me and Gagan were playing in the middle of the draw,   and when I looked at the scoreboard, Nicholas was all square with Jimenez; Thongchai was up; Kiradech was up, behind me and big margins and we fought back.   
When I was on the back nine, it was inspiring for me to see how the rest of the team was fighting. And I think that brought the best out in me coming down the stretch.   
   
 Q.   How important was the crowd support?   
KIM HYUNG‑SUNG:   Today the galleries, it was great out there.   The support was great.   It just felt like it was one family out there and so it just helped the players and it helped me perform the way I performed today and it was just a great feeling to be out there with all the galleries out there.   It was great.   
SIDDIKUR RAHMAN:   There's many Bangladeshis around and a lot of other Malaysians were supporting me very much and I think that was especially good for my energy to play well.   So that's really‑‑ I always like to see spectators.   I appreciate them and thanks to all of them.   
   
 Q.   Do you think there could be additional match tournaments to give you more experience in that format?   
GAGANJEET   BHULLAR:   Well, I totally agree because you look at the PGA TOUR and The European Tour, the Americans get to play The Ryder Cup and The Presidents Cup.   This is the first time that we all first got an opportunity to actually showcase Asian golf.   
There are a lot of things that we were discussing in the team room about what the Asian Tour needs to do and I totally agree with you.   We guys need to develop something where everybody could gel each other in a positive way and where we could actually get an opportunity to play in foursomes and four‑ball.     
   
 Q.   I had a question about the learning curve, in this particular event, can I ask any of you to share with us how you tweaked your game plan from day one to day two to day three?   The learning curve, how did you realize how to play the course to perform better?   I got an answer on this a little yesterday from McDowell and now I would like to hear what you guys what anybody did to play a better round.   
ANIRBAN LAHIRI:   I tell you what, Nicholas Fung has won on this golf course.   Apart from that, he has had a few other good finishes on this golf course, but for the other nine team members, this is the first time we ever saw this golf course and everybody arrived on Sunday night.   We had a dinner and we had a chat what we are going to do.   We played with each other on Monday and Tuesday hoping that this would be the draw for Thursday and Friday.   
Playing practice rounds together, we were discussing about it since Abu Dhabi and the Middle Eastern swing and Thongchai has been telling us, this is how they are going to set up the golf course and going to make sure that the rough is up and just make sure your short game is sharp.   
Apart from that, I think the most important thing was everybody arrived here on Sunday evening.   So all of us got an opportunity to play three practice rounds.   Although the players from the European side, they were playing in Bay Hill last week and didn't got here until Tuesday night.   So that was an important edge we guys had.   
CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:   Thongchai, would you be putting your hand up to be captain in two years' time?   
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   Yeah, this my first time to be captain and player together, a lot of work.   I know it's very hard work to play like both sides together.   It's a tough job.   I want to play in this event but this job it's hard work.   I'm very happy to do it.   If I can't play, I would like to play more than a couple times.   That's the key point.   
But anyway, nice to be here and hopefully we get ideas for the future, another two more years.   If I can I would like to support this tournament is that this‑‑ I would like to see this kind of format one weekend we can see.   I think, yeah, that I would like to see.   I don't know what going on in the future.   
CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:   Different tournament all together from other weeks; how has it been for you guys to be part of these teams?   
GAGANJEET   BHULLAR:   When we guys were walking off the 18th green today, that gave us a sense of achievement.   That actually tells us how far we guys have come.   There was a time that guys used to say that we were from Asia, do you have a tour.     Now people know that the Asian Tour players are the players from Asian continent are going to be the next superstars.   Look at Y.E. Yang, K.J. Choi, these guys are making ourselves proud.   
I think this week, representing the whole continent, taking the responsibility, it was a great, great pleasure.   Everybody played really well and as I said, you know, we had a pep talk from Kyi Hla Han and that turned everything around.   
   
 Q.   Today you showed the world that you are the babies of golf in all three continents but can match anybody in the world.   You matched the Europeans who won The Ryder Cup and today you matched them.  
GAGANJEET   BHULLAR:   I think speak for all of us, we are proud of how we picked ourselves up the last 48 hours.   I think it's a great moment for Asian golf because it's put us on the map and I know a lot of people will now take notice of ten of us and the Asian Tour, and for everybody who is here representing the biggest tours and biggest countries of Asia, I think this is one of the first few steps that we need to take in popularising Asian golf.   I think that's a good point that we proved especially coming from 5‑0 down.   All of us are very happy and very proud that we came back and contributed.  
CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:   Thank you very much.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT