EURASIA CUP PRESENTED BY DRB-HICOM
March 25, 2014
Gaganjeet Bhullar
Thongchai Jaidee
Anirban Lahiri
Siddikur Rahman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  CHUA CHOO CHIANG:   Good afternoon, we have got members of Team Asia here with us this afternoon. If I can just start off the press conference by asking a couple questions each to the players and we'll open it to the floor.   
Thongchai, welcome to the inaugural EurAsia Cup Presented by DRB‑HICOM.   You've been here for a couple of days now.   How are you feeling about this new tournament against Europe?   
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   Yeah, very good.   I'm feeling excited about this week, because my first time to be playing in the EurAsia Cup.   We are talking with our team right now and we are very excited, it's set up and everything is completely set and it's going to be a fun match and I think it's going to be a very good tournament, that's the most important.   
CHUA CHOO CHIANG:     Siddikur, being from Bangladesh what does it mean to be here this week representing Team Asia?   
SIDDIKUR RAHMAN:   It's really very proud for Bangladesh, Bangladesh is very unknown country in golf, but really from Bangladesh, it's very exciting to see this tournament.  
CHUA CHOO CHIANG:     Anirban, some opening comments from you, how does it feel in the team room?   
ANIRBAN LAHIRI:   It's exciting.   I think we are all getting to know each other more closely.   Obviously a lot of us play together, some of us don't but I think we are coming together very well as a team.   Also we played some golf today and yesterday with each other, so just figuring out our strategies and just getting ready to implement them and hopefully get off to a good start the day after.   
CHUA CHOO CHIANG:   Last but not least, your thoughts about the EurAsia Cup, how big is this in your career?   
GAGANJEET BHULLAR:   It is, this is probably one of the biggest tournaments I'm going to be playing this year.   Everyone is excited back home, last week every second guy came up to me and wished me good luck and I think all of Asia, the whole tour, everybody is excited to see this tour, the media, everybody is very excited about this week.   
   
 Q.   What sort of preparations did you do for this tournament?   
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   I think our team is very good right now.   I think very complete.   I think we have a good chance to win the trophy.   I think it depends, we have quite young team, and two old guys, but we have more experience, otherwise I think our team will do a lot of work.   I think more important, the team work, really have to be complete otherwise my team, I think it has a good chance to win the trophy.   
   
 Q.   Have you thought about which player you think would suit the European‑‑  
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   I think most of them, we have played with them already, and for everyone, I think most of them quite actually are a very strong team.   McDowell, he's played a lot, and Miguel, he's captain, he's got very good experience, as well.   
I think our team, I think working on the golf course, you know, the golf course needs anything long.   You have to hit the ball on the fairway.   I think you have a good chance, even if you have a good putt, you pay attention, you have a good putt, you're going to win the match and win the trophy.   
I don't mind it's Europe, I know the target is very strong and our team will try to be confidence, and most important, make confident, and win or lose, I think try to win the tournament, yeah.   
   
 Q.   Have you thought of your foursomes or your four‑ball teams?   
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   Yes, I will speak to our team, I think Anirban and Siddikur, actually they have played everywhere in the world and they have played a lot of tournaments.   This tournament, I mean, like the different format, four‑ball, foursome, I think it depends on your partner, who is going to be paired with who.   I think they have decided already and just tell who you're comfortable, and we keep it like that.   I don't tell you anything, any secrets for my team.   I think our team is I think strong now to beat Europe.   
   
 Q.   You guys played in different competitions as amateurs, the Eisenhower and World Cup, what difference do you see in match‑play format and stroke play?   
ANIRBAN LAHIRI:   Well, personally speaking, we've played a lot of team golf together, but like Thongchai rightly pointed out, in juniors and amateurs, you don't really play foursomes and four‑balls.   You play your own ball and best two‑out‑of‑three, best three‑out‑of‑four, and that's usually the formats in the amateurs and the juniors, so this is a new format for me.   Gagan, of course, has the experience of the Royal Trophy.   
But it's been a very good progression for us.   We've come up through the ranks and done well at each level, so I think this is a new challenge for us, and both of us are really looking forward to it.   We would like nothing better than to have a few upsets the day after tomorrow.   
GAGANJEET BHULLAR:   I agree with Anirban.   This is a different kind of performance.   Normally we are used to a 72‑hole event streak play events and I think it's a great sense of achievement that whoever the ten guys that made the team, they will represent the continent.   
The last two or three years, we've been playing with each other trying to figure it out, like what would be the best teams for foursomes and four‑balls, and we have a lot of options.   We have been trying to gel with each other really well and there is a lot of good possibility.   Everybody is hitting the ball quite well and are comfortable on the greens and now they are just waiting for Thursday to come.   
   
 Q.   You realize it's quite possible that in two years' time the trophy could be played here.   
GAGANJEET BHULLAR:   These are things which we have been dreaming from a long, long time and of course the guys are working hard.   The guys that played in the Eisenhower and the Asian Games, of course these are goals these guys worked hard for.   Subconsciously I totally agree;   I have that goal in my mind.     
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT