CIMB CLASSIC
October 26, 2012
Anirban Lahiri
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Good round today.   Good come back from you.   Thoughts on your round?   
ANIRBAN LAHIRI:   Well, after yesterday, I knew I had to go out there and try to shoot a low score.   I got it going pretty well.   I was 3‑under through 7.   Then I just hit a road block of putts and just kept putting everything.   Hit it close on a number of holes, but didn't read the greens very well today.   Should have easily made three or four putts more.   Can't really complain.   I'll take a 66.  
   
 Q.   What was different for you today compared to yesterday?   
ANIRBAN LAHIRI:   I think I hit it much better.   I hit it closer as well.   Yesterday I hit a few bad shots that cost me bogies off the tee.   I putted very poorly yesterday, so I definitely putted better.   But, again, I'd just say it was better.   I hope I can putt good over the weekend.  
   
 Q.   How was the course playing after the rain yesterday?   
ANIRBAN LAHIRI:   I think it was playing a little easier because it was softer.   So even if your ball was going to the sides of the fairway, it would just plug.   If it pitches on the edge of the fairway, it would stop.   
So you find a lot more players that hit fairways today.   Because it was soft, you could just fly it all the way to the Green to the pin.   I think one of the key factors was going to be spin control.   It's so soft it can just come back really quick.  
   
 Q.   This your first time playing in the event.   How has the experience been so far?   
ANIRBAN LAHIRI:   It's been great.   I played with two different U.S. Tour players.   Both I think are winners on the Tour.   It gives me a good insight into what these guys do.   That's what all of us aspire to do ourselves is to be on the highest tour, which is the U.S. PGA TOUR.   
So it's a great opportunity to put yourself against them and to see where you're lacking or where you are ready.   So it's been a great week for me that way.  
   
 Q.   It gives you some confidence in a way you've been playing this week?   
ANIRBAN LAHIRI:   Yeah.   I have that self‑belief that I can play on any tour in the world.   When I'm playing at my best, I can compete with the best.   But the thing is the consistency.   That's what I have to find more regularly over a long period of time, so that I can get my World Ranking points up and compete through all the big events, even the European and Asian Tour co‑sanctioned events through the year.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT