SAUDI INTERNATIONAL POWERED BY SBIA
February 2, 2019
Mike Lorenzo-vera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Make the cut on the number.  How does it feel to shoot 63, 7-under, no bogeys?
MIKE LORENZO-VERA: It feels readily good.  The course was a bit easier, or much easier this morning.  This morning was so much easier.  I managed to -- I missed a lot of fairways, but just managed to catch the save zones and from the fairway, I managed to be really aggressive on the pins.  Lots of chances today.
Q. Did you go out knowing a low one could bring you to the top of the leaderboard?
MIKE LORENZO-VERA: If the wind picks up, yes, but doesn't look like it wants to do.
Yeah, you know that before, honestly considering the game I had last week and the game of the winning of the week, I was trying to just play golf and play the best and you can I was not expecting a 7-under today and it came, and it was cool.
I was on the putting green yesterday, and that was not very interesting, I think, to do, because I had a lot of repeat, repeat, looked a bit stupid but looks like it worked a bit.  We spent a lot of time, as well, Thursday afternoon on the range with the wedge because I was struggling with my wedge game.
Q. A lot of players have been talking about the greens and the grain.  Is it the sort of style of green and grass that you haven't been used to playing?
MIKE LORENZO-VERA: They are very hard.  There's a lot of grain, and the course needs that green, because if it's pure, the greens, the course is going to be taken advantage of, really.  It could be a 4-under cut.  It would be so much lower.  It would break the course if the greens were pure.  It's a good defence for the course.
The ball rolls all right.  It's just so hard to read, and have the pace, that's it.  I think that's the biggest challenge of the course.
Q. Your first time here in Saudi Arabia and Saudi International, what are your impressions of the tournament and kind of their vision of trying to build golf here?
MIKE LORENZO-VERA: Well, in the area, they all started this way, one course with nothing around, and a bit of, as you say, political be troubles with the European side.  They all started this way in Qatar, Dubai, and at the end, they ended up with pretty liberal countries with great golf course and tourism, so if it goes this way, then it's going to be awesome then, really.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT