BELGIAN KNOCKOUT
May 19, 2018
Mike Lorenzo-vera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Bit of a battle?  
MIKE LORENZO-VERA: Yeah, I was getting a bit tired I think.  Just had a slow start this time.  So Matt managed to give me some shots, so that was nice of him.  Just tried to play around par.  He wasn't playing good, so just thought about level would make it pretty easy.  Just try my best to hang around and then it's just, you know, go through that game and let's go tomorrow.   
 Q.  Is it always goo to back up a good nine holes like you had in the previous match again?  
MIKE LORENZO-VERA: Yeah, but when you've done 18 holes and you have to go for nine again, just might have a bit of lack of energy at the moment, after the good week last week.  Yeah, a bit tired I think.  I need a big night's sleep.   
 Q.  And obviously a continuation of your good form last week.  Looking forward to tomorrow, which will be another long day, but one you're looking forward to no doubt?  
MIKE LORENZO-VERA: Yeah, sure.  I'm just in a state of mind of just playing golf every day.  It makes it pretty easy.  I'm just not trying to win or do whatever.  I'm just trying to hit good shots, play good golf, do no stupid things, because here, the course is just waiting for that.  Just try to keep my mind where it should be and that's it.   
 Q.  Was it difficult to get over last week?  
MIKE LORENZO-VERA: Honestly, not that much.  I was really sad and stuff after Sunday night and Monday morning, and then Monday afternoon, I just wanted to go again on the course and play.  So no, just went pretty easily over it.   
 Q.  Are you enjoying this format.  
MIKE LORENZO-VERA: Yeah, it's different.  Of course it's cool.  It's different of match play, really, so you have to keep your score okay.  You can't go stupid on one hole or whatever.   
It feels like you're leading a tournament you have one nine-hole to go.  It's this kind of game, play darts and stuff -- I don't know what's going to be my result at the end of the week, but I'm learning a lot of all these situations I have to play, so it's cool?   
 Q.  Is it hard to stop and motivate yourself for that next nine holes?  
MIKE LORENZO-VERA: No problem.  Motivation is always there.  Just want to go and play.  It's not a problem to be motivated.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT