ITALIAN OPEN
October 15, 2017
Mike Lorenzo-vera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  After a disappointing end to your third round, how determined were you to putt in a good performance today?  
MIKE LORENZO-VERA: I needed to bring the A Game today on the course and I managed to do it anyway after the frustration last night.  I'm happy about that.   
 Q.  What pleased you most about your play today?  
MIKE LORENZO-VERA: It was good, I was getting really tired today, so just tried to be aggressive anyway, and the putting came back a bit, so that was cool.   
 Q.  Another positive performance in a big event.  What does that do for confidence?  
MIKE LORENZO-VERA: It's good.  I've been working hard with my new coach, Justin Parsons, recently.  We started like almost two months ago, and that was big changes in the golf swing.  Still managed to make almost every cut since that and managed to have some Top-20s, top 30s.   
Game is good, and, well, the swing is getting sharper.   
 Q.  What can you take from this performance going into some big events coming up?  
MIKE LORENZO-VERA: The power fade works and the putting looks a bit better.  There's a lot of work still, a lot of work on the short game.  I just work a lot in the two weeks coming, if I'm not in HSBC, and we'll see.   
 Q.  Do you feel there's a lot of positive signs from your performances?  
MIKE LORENZO-VERA: Yeah, a lot.  A lot.  My attitude's great.  My swing is very good.  So that's all, you know.  Working to be better in every part.  That's what I'm doing and it works okay.   
 Q.  What can you hope for for the rest of the season?  
MIKE LORENZO-VERA: I would love to be part of the EurAsia Cup.  That could be interesting to have a strong finish and let's see what happens.   
 Q.  Why do you want to play in that so much?  
MIKE LORENZO-VERA: Guess why.  There's something next September in France.   
You know, I've always been far of all these events in my career, and now I feel that my game is getting, as I say, much sharper.  I'm trying to putt my expectations and I work harder and maybe I'm going to be in it.   
 Q.  Do you feel you can make that team next September?  
MIKE LORENZO-VERA: It's a small team for a lot of players.  It's hard to say.  But at least we're working on it.  We're working on it.  I like the course there.  So it could be interesting.   
 Q.  Wild-card maybe if you don't play your way in?  
MIKE LORENZO-VERA: I'm not sure.  It's a hard thing to say.  I don't think Thomas is thinking about taking a French one because it's in France.  He has to pick the best players.  I think my best chance to be there is to be into the points, so it's a lot of work.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT