HNA OPEN DE FRANCE
July 2, 2017
Mike Lorenzo-vera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Highlight of 66 has to be the putt on 18.  Just describe that one for us?  
MIKE LORENZO-VERA: Well, you know, this course is pretty easy at the end, so you need to take the chances, yeah.   
 Q.  Noooo, it's not easy.  We know that.  
MIKE LORENZO-VERA: No, yeah, that was really quality game.  I had two bonus putts on 15 and 18.  I didn't know that was going to be that fast on 18.  It chunked a bit when it catched the hole, but very happy.  I wanted to hole it, absolutely, to give myself a chance to go to The Open.  I think it's going to work out.   
 Q.  How much was that open qualification in your thinking over the last few holes, because you played so beautifully and it was right on the wire?  
MIKE LORENZO-VERA: Yeah, I started to think about it on 16.  Two years ago, I finished sixth, and I didn't catch the spot.  So I was like, okay, come on, try to make some pars.  It's not going to happen twice.  Well, the birdie came and I kept it going.   
 Q.  Tremendous putt on 15, as well, to get you into the position that you've managed to do here.  
MIKE LORENZO-VERA: Yeah, well, you know, you have to be very patient here and put yourself on a good side, and if the putt goes down, it makes a great week, and if it doesn't, you'll still have a solid week.  Today the putts were pretty good.  So very happy about it.   
 Q.  We spoke a few days ago about your record, only having made the cut once previously and you said that there's a lot of distractions.  Have you been able to put those out of your mind this year?  Is that the reason we've been able to see a better performance?  
MIKE LORENZO-VERA: Yeah, I make my management company and then I've got my team here to help me out to organise the week, and this helped me a lot.  My family is here, also, to keep myself a bit calmer than all the other years.  I thank them a lot because it was a very important week for big points.  It's worked pretty well I think.   
 Q.  And knowing there's an Open Championship place up for grabs, which you're in a position to take one at the moment?  
MIKE LORENZO-VERA: Yeah, maybe I'm going to have maybe this spot for The Open.  Never made any major.  I've only made one HSBC, so that would be really nice if that could happen.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT