PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 7, 2020
Mike Lorenzo-vera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









JOHN DEVER:   Good evening.  Welcome back to the 2020 PGA Championship here at TPC Harding Park.  Pleased to be joined by Mike Lorenzo-Vera of France.  Mike posted a second round 68 today.  He is at 6-under here at the halfway mark of our championship tied for second.
Mike, you kept your head above water today and really hit a string there on holes 2 and 3, 4 -- on your back nine, but 2,3 and 4 on the golf course with three straight birdies and maybe talk about the momentum you gained there and how it propelled you to the finish line.
MIKE LORENZO-VERA:   Yeah, I was hitting the ball everywhere from 10 to 18.  I was really not hitting the ball where it should be, and I just decided to just do something on the first tee at the turn.
And then I felt like really good feeling in my swing and I was like, okay, I'm going to stick to that till the end and well it worked.  It worked pretty well.  So I managed to hit the good zones, and to, well, to put the putts in five, six meters.  That was cool.
JOHN DEVER:   One question about golf in France.  We just came from The Ryder Cup 18 months ago.  Great crowds.  Just how well received I think two French men will make the cut here and obviously you're near the top of the leaderboard.  Is that the type of momentum the game needs in your country.
MIKE LORENZO-VERA:   Yeah, definitely.  You know, it's not the culture; golf is not part of the culture of France, so we need players to do that and do better and better, and show that golf exists and, yeah, try to pull the junk guns with us and here you are.  That's the only thing we can do.
JOHN DEVER:   Well, if you're on the top Sunday night, that would be a big push.
Q. You look so comfortable out there.  Does Harding Park remind you of any course that you've played in the past where you've had success?
MIKE LORENZO-VERA:   No.
Q. Can you compare Harding Park to some of the other courses that you really enjoy playing?
MIKE LORENZO-VERA:   No, no.  It's one of these course that I really -- it's the first time I play something like that.
Where I come from in France, there is a lot of old courses -- can be tricky in the trees and stuff, but never set up like it is now, and not that long.  So no, no.  Honestly I'm absolutely not comfortable (laughing) I just look like it.
JOHN DEVER:   Well done, you fooled us all.  Thank you sir, enjoy your evening and best of luck all weekend.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT