DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 23, 2019
Mike Lorenzo-vera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Obviously a little disappointed to make a bogey at the last but overall to shoot 69 in those circumstances, how pleased with your day's work?
MIKE LORENZO-VERA: Yeah, I think that I played better today than yesterday. Some better shots all day long, and well, I think we messed up a bit with the choice of club of tee on 18. That was not driver. It was a bit too aggressive, but, well, that's the game and I tried my best. We know at least tomorrow in this wind it won't be the driver on 18.
Q. Nearly 200 events on The European Tour, four times a runner-up. What's the most important thing you've learnt that you can use tomorrow?
MIKE LORENZO-VERA: That you don't control anything except your mind. That's the only thing you can control tomorrow, so I just hope for the same game plan and let's see if the golf wants to give me something.
Q. As well as the trophy tomorrow, there is a massive first prize of $3 million. Some of the guys that have won these big purses recently have been multi-millionaires have told us they have not thought about the money. Will you be in your mind?
MIKE LORENZO-VERA: It is in my mind for sure. I mean, in one -- maybe tomorrow you shoot like 6-under and then you put your family out of any trouble for the rest of your life. So of course it's going to add some pressure.
But I don't know, man, I'll really try to focus on the game. We'll see. Hopefully I'll be shaking for the good reasons.
Q. The opportunity to win, your first time on The European Tour, and for it to be in a Rolex event, the DP World Tour Championship, how special would that be?
MIKE LORENZO-VERA: That's one of the things I think about the most, to win in Dubai, only big name does it, and that would be really awesome for me for my confidence and my career to achieve that tomorrow would be really an awesome achievement.
Q. Another round in the 60s. How was that out there today?
MIKE LORENZO-VERA: It was good, a much better round than yesterday, much more solid. I think the only mistake today was the tee shot in the water on 18. It's a tight tee shot. I got a bit too aggressive I think. I was sure that the wind would have kept, if that was that trajectory, I thought that ball would have died soft on the fairway and I wouldn't be in trouble.
Now it proves that it's the wrong club to hit if that's the wind, so I'll know that for tomorrow, but except for that, really, played some proper golf. I'm happy about it.
Q. The reaction to your birdie on 9, talk us through that.
MIKE LORENZO-VERA: Yeah, I was really hesitating because it was very grainy and some bumps on the line on the fringe and I wanted to chip it. My caddie was like, man, what would you do. I'm like, I would putt that. I'll give it a go. Yeah, good speed, good line.
Q. Going into the final round tied with Jon, nothing to lose, what's the game plan?
MIKE LORENZO-VERA: Well, I still have around 3 million to lose, maybe a little bit less. Yeah, mind-set is going to be the same. I'm going to try to be the most relaxed as I can, even if I won't be, it's going to be really a tough round. The guy has a collection of Rolex Series trophies and Rory and some other guys, if he shoots 7-, 8-under tomorrow, I wouldn't be surprised if someone does it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT