DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 22, 2019
Mike Lorenzo-vera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Ended with a three-shot lead, despite the bogey at the last with the three-putt, how pleased with your day's work?  
MIKE LORENZO-VERA: Well, yeah, I'm very pleased. Managed to hit the ball where I wanted more or less. It was tricky and the wind was blowing pretty solid. In the end, it's a solid end. The last three are tough, I think. So yeah, the game was solid. I hit some really pure shots, and holed a few momentums.   
 Q.  You told us yesterday you were suffering from a lung infection. How was it out there today?  
MIKE LORENZO-VERA: The lungs are good. Just the energy is down totally. I'm trying to sleep as much as I can and trying to recover on that.   
Actually I'm happy to not have fallen to something strange with Rory. Played with Rory and try to over-play and that was dangerous to do that today, and I didn't do it. So that's what I'm really proud of mostly today.   
 Q.  Some players would find it intimidating to play with the world No. 2, particularly the distance he hits the ball. I was frighteningly long yesterday. You seem to be inspired. Is that the case?  
MIKE LORENZO-VERA: I've played with him a few times in competition and I struggled with him in the beginning because I over play. That was the game plan today. Don't look at him. He's going to hit bombs. He's going to hit incredible iron shots sky high and stuff, and that's not my game.   
Actually, I wasn't too far from him all day long, so I was pretty happy about that.   
 Q.  How do you approach the weekend now in this situation mentally and tactically?  
MIKE LORENZO-VERA: Tactically, I know what I have to do, and I know that the winds are going to be different this weekend. I'm not going to push more than what I'm doing now. Trying to trust my putter 100 per cent and that's what I can do.   
 Q.  Disappointing finish, but the round itself, how did you enjoy that?  
MIKE LORENZO-VERA: Well, it was not super enjoyable because it's tough out there today. Just tried to put the ball mostly where I could, and managed to do it pretty well. Missed a couple of shots at the end and made a three-putt on the last.   
It's just the game. I've got three shots lead and it's better than three shots behind. Just going to be stressful because it's big dogs behind me that are going to try to bite me, so it's going to be interesting.   
 Q.  We know Rory, playing with him, lots of crowds. Looked like you were loving the atmosphere?  
MIKE LORENZO-VERA: Yeah, I loved it. As I said before, I played with him a few times. I played with him at the PGA Championship last year. That was some crowds and stuff, much louder than here. Feels like I'm getting used to play with him. That's fine.   
 Q.  Do you thrive in this situation?  
MIKE LORENZO-VERA: Thrive?   
 Q.  As in, do you enjoy the situation?  
MIKE LORENZO-VERA: Obviously I don't have the energy to enjoy that. I'm just really trying to focus and just commit to the shots and let's see what happens.   
 Q.  What's the game plan for tomorrow?  
MIKE LORENZO-VERA: Kind of same. Depends on the wind. I think it's going to change direction tomorrow. Just try to hit the zones, and sums up pretty big year. Just try to commit to the shot and do some good contact and good putts.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT