SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 13, 2019
Davis Love III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Davis, how much fun was that to compete again on a Sunday?  
DAVIS LOVE III: It was fun.  I've played the weekends a lot lately but I haven't played that near the lead, so it's nice to get a taste of it a little bit.   
But I've been saying for a year, kind of like I've said about Tiger when he was trying to make a comeback from so many injuries and breaks, sometime off, that if I could play a full season I could get my game back.   
I'm getting close to almost playing a full year.  Started back like last -- end of March after hip replacement, so I'm getting there.  Getting close to a year.  I'm thankful every day that I can walk around the golf course with a new hip.  I'm also wanting to get my game back a little bit.  It's come around.  I saw some signs in the fall tournaments.  Putted really well yesterday; if I'd a played that well today I might have even had a chance, but I am getting there.   
 Q.  How long did it take to you trust it, if you will?  Okay, I can go at the ball the way I feel I can go at the ball?  
DAVIS LOVE III: I did an extensive amount of rehab and I showed up at Valspar, and the first tee shot I hit was about 100 yards to the left because I was so scared that something was going to come apart.   
Once I got to playing and I realized it wasn't going to come apart and that I had done the work to get back in shape, it's gradually gotten better.  Now I still have to the same brain and I still make the same mental mistakes; I still get nervous on the weekends and still hit bad shots.   
Honestly, I think this is the best I've felt physically in a long time.  It's encouraging that when I feel good I can get out there and compete a little bit.   
 Q.  This tells me we're going to see a lot of you this year on the PGA TOUR then.  
DAVIS LOVE III: Yeah, I kind of committed to some of my sponsors that this was going to be pretty much a regular tour year.  I've been struggling to get to 15 events the last few years because of different injuries; some self-inflicted and some wear and tear.  I felt like I owed it to my sponsors and myself to give the tour a full shot.   
I will play some Champions Tour events to fill in, but I am committed to playing at least two events a month all the way through the start of the next season, which is going to come a little earlier this year.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT