THE RYDER CUP
September 30, 2012
Davis Love III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  DAVIS LOVE III:   We all went to plan.   We were four ahead.   The plan worked the first two days, it just didn't work today.  
   
 Q.   At what point were you going, uh‑oh, this is not going the right way?   What was the score?  
DAVIS LOVE III:   The score, middle of the‑‑ when we all got past No.9, I knew that somebody was going to have to play well coming down the stretch.   What happened to us is we got a couple matches flipped that normally would have counted.   When you lose some of those 16 and 17s and 17 and 18s, when the match gets flipped, that's what costs you.   
   
 Q.   I know that's a tough one to swallow but you guys played with a lot of class.   
DAVIS LOVE III:   That's golf.   We didn't play well today.   We could have laid them out there in about any order today and played like that.   It wouldn't have really mattered.   These guys had a great week, had a lot of fun, and they played well.   They played a lot of good golf, and so did the other side.   To end up like that is unfortunate.   I know these guys put a lot into it.   
Ultimately this team really understands, it's just golf.   
   
 Q.   Everybody is probably going to second‑guess a lot of things, but I want to express an appreciation for the job you do.   
DAVIS LOVE III:   That's my job is to get second‑guessed.   Those guys tried their hardest, and we could have put out a whole bunch of different plans, but if we don't play well and the team plays like that, you're going to get beaten.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
DAVIS LOVE III:   We're all kind of stunned.   We know what it feels like now from the '99 Ryder Cup.   It's a little bit shocking.   We were playing so well, everybody on our team was playing so well, we just figured it didn't matter how we sent them out there.   But we put who we thought was our hot players up front and we put who we thought was our steady players in the back that would get us points.   We all thought it would come down to Jason Dufner, and he played very, very well.   We just got a couple matches flipped there in the middle that cost us.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT