FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
June 8, 2012
Davis Love III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Congratulations on the round.   Some more consistent play.   Give us some impression of the round today.  
DAVIS LOVE, III:   Well, it was -- I shot 2-under again but it was not like yesterday but I'm hitting the ball pretty well.   I'm hitting a few loose shots.   This course is playing tough.   I played with two guys that didn't play that bad and were way over par.   You're not in the right places in the fairway, not in the right places around the green, this course can play pretty tough.  
   
 Q.   When you look back on these 18 holes, what very some of the shots that kept it going for you and I have to imagine the shot at 9 you almost put it right in the jar there.  
AMy son pointed out yesterday if I was in the fairway I was close to the hole.   I'm hitting the ball pretty well if I'm in the fairway.   Today I did hit two, 7-iron and 8-iron, I missed the green and cost me a couple shots.   If I'm driving it in the fairway I'm hitting it pretty close to the hole.   It's nice to finish with a birdie, especially at 9.   That one got me yesterday.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about the approach for the weekend and what you'll focus on being in the thick of things here?  
DAVIS LOVE, III:   Just the same thing.   Just work on driving in the fairway.   Whatever club it takes, get it in the fairways and that will get me ready for next week at the U.S. Open.   You got to get in that mentality.   If I don't hit fairways this weekend and next week I'm not going to be in the game.   Got to do that first off and putt well.   I putted pretty well the last two days.  
   
 Q.   Great way to end it there, talk about the closing on 9.  
DAVIS LOVE, III:   Great way to finish.   I bogeyed it yesterday so I got it back today on 9.   If you hit a good tee shot on all these holes you can make a birdie.   You hit a bad shot, you make a bogey real quick.   Nice to be right down the middle the last few holes.  
   
 Q.   Eventful closing 9 for you, the birdies and bogies there.   Just that up and down and feel that way?  
DAVIS LOVE, III:   It's been that way.   If you hit the fairways you ought to be able to get it on the greens and get some birdie putts.   If you miss fairways you're going to struggle and if you miss greens you're certainly going to struggle.   The greens are fast and they're obviously small so if you miss the greens, you're in trouble.   And I missed a few today from the fairway which was shocking.   Yesterday I hit a lot of fairways and lot of greens.   Today I missed a 7-iron and 8-iron, made some bogies.   Hit a bad 5-iron at the par three and made a bogey.  
   
 Q.   Are you pleased with the 68?   Lot of people say they left some shots out there.  
DAVIS LOVE, III:   Everybody is going to say they left some out here.   This is a tough golf course, under these conditions.   Whatever is leading, 6-under, you know, that's not very low for us.   You can tell the golf course is playing tough.   It's very challenging.   So, you're going to make a few mistakes.   You're going to hit a few flyers and hit some good shots that land on the green and go over and get in a bad spot.  
   
 Q.   You hadn't decided to play the golf course until the last minute last week.  
DAVIS LOVE, III:   I missed a lot of weeks already this year because of injuries.   I was planning on playing.   I needed some statistics and I was planning on playing here, qualifying for the U.S. Open but right now I'm committing to the last minute because I've been kind of suspect on injuries.   I'm feeling great the last two, three weeks and excited to be playing.  
   
 Q.   Has the break in weather meant anything here?   Used to play in 90-degree temperatures out here.  
DAVIS LOVE, III:   Been awfully nice the last two days.   It's been shocking -- well, three days, Pro-Am day was probably the best day.   It's nice to have a break, and everybody keeps texting me and calling me man, it's not hot out there in Memphis?   They don't believe me.   Get weather like this you get a better feel for next year.  
   
 Q.   How is it compared to last week, two weeks in a row, how are you playing?  
DAVIS LOVE, III:   I think similar.   Last week I putted pretty well and scrambled around pretty good and hit the ball well enough to have a better finish than I did and then in the U.S. Open qualifying I was -- I played a lot better than -- a couple under par.   I'm getting the job done but it's not great.   I'm right on the verge of playing well.   I've been saying that for even when I missed cuts coming back after my injury, I said I feel like I'm ready to play well.   I was a little bit rusty but now getting into the rhythm of it?  
   
 Q.   How long has your son been caddying for you?  
DAVIS LOVE, III:   He's not.  
   
 Q.   Giving you pointers out there?  
DAVIS LOVE, III:   He's doing a good job.   We had fun hitting balls late in the evening the last two evenings.   He's a good player.   He's given me actually some swing tips.   He watched me in the Pro-Am up close walking with me and said the ones you hit bad you're getting long and quick on.   He calmed me down a little bit and that always helps who has seen my swing a bunch.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT