U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 19, 2011
Davis Love III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Being the Ryder Cup captain and this is going to be a hundred years Americans have gone five Majors without winning. What are your thoughts on that kind of drought for the Americans?  
 DAVIS LOVE III: What we see on Tour year-round is they're half of our Tour now. So start with -- I think you can give Seve a lot of credit; Seve and Bernhard Langer, for letting the Europeans realize that they can work hard and come over here and compete with the Americans. The world is a smaller place. So I think we're going to have to get used to it.   
 Look at the leaderboard every week on Tour, it's half -- well, it's a third U.S. and a third European, and then a third Asian or South African, Australian guys.  
 Really I guess a little bit of an exception with Lee Westwood, but most of them are guys that are over here playing a lot, week in and week out. Rory, I guess we've seen him a lot in the last year. Everything goes in streaks, you know. We might be talking about how four Americans win the next four.   
 We don't look at it that I way, we're just playing the golf course. We don't play nationalities, we're playing golf and trying to win. If it's Kevin Chappell that shoots 17-under or Rory, it doesn't make any difference to me, I got whipped.  
  
  Q. You were grinding pretty hard on that par-putt on 18, did you think it might be for a top 8?  
 DAVIS LOVE III: No, I hadn't made a whole lot of putts all week. Actually that was one of my better putts. That one I guess I misread it.  
 But I didn't putt good all week. That's the thing. I don't think I could have gotten to 17-under, but I should have been 10 or 12, for sure. This weekend is the best tee-to-green I've played in a long, long time. So I'm encouraged. I'm excited about getting back out there and playing again.  
 I know tee-to-green, I keep saying it, I know I can still compete. I've proved it myself that I can hang in there tee-to-green. The greens were a hundred percent better today. It was like you could make them today, if you hit good putts, they would definitely go in. Yesterday -- well, yesterday was -- I guess the weekend was better than I played Friday afternoon, they were a little choppy Friday afternoon, as usual, on Tour. But I think I lost a little bit of my confidence on Friday. I didn't make anything. Actually I rolled it pretty good today, I made a few and lipped out a few.   
  
  Q. Is it hard to keep your chin up on the putting front, is it hard?  
 DAVIS LOVE III: No, I worked all week, I putted great on the putting green. I putted great at home. I putted great on Sundays, it's part of it. But it's no different -- we could go back to the '93 U.S. Open and I hit it great and had a chance and didn't win. I'm just happy that I'm still hitting it good. Some weeks the putts go in, and when they do, I'll be right there.  
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 DAVIS LOVE III: I don't know, I hadn't really thought about it. It's pretty incredible what he's done. I know they didn't want the greens to be this soft. But they set the course up -- they didn't make the course extremely hard. They stuck with their game plan all week, was to let us have some fun. The last three or four years it seems like The Open has been a lot more fun than it was at Oakmont or Winged Foot. Pebble and San Diego and here have really been a lot of fun to play, because you didn't feel like if you miss one shot you were going to make a bogey or maybe a double. I know the greens got a little hard maybe last year on Sunday and here they were a little soft.   
 You can't control Mother Nature. Mike controls pretty much everything on this golf course, except for Mother Nature. I know they didn't want it to be that soft for him to shoot 17-under, but 6 or 8 or 10 was definitely going to be doable.  
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 DAVIS LOVE III: No, I think he's proved -- when he gets going he's hard to stop. And it took a big old pine tree and a house to stop him at Augusta. Really, and I keep saying this, I said it to you guys yesterday, if he hit the fairway on 10, I think he wins the Masters. If the ball hits the tree and spits to the right in play, he probably wins, too.   
 When he gets going like Charlotte, I was in the last group that day, and after nine holes it was over. He was on such a roll. He's a great talent. It's surprising that he would shoot that low of scores and run away with the tournament, let alone a U.S. Open, on a course like this. It's not surprising for him. That's the kind of player he is, when he gets going he's hard to stop.  
  
  Q. A lot of comparisons with Tiger and the way Tiger won in 2000. And the way Tiger emerged. Are those fair comparisons?  
 DAVIS LOVE III: These an incredible talent. We've known that from a young age. It's fair for a start. It's like comparing Tiger to Jack early, and will he beat Jack's record. That's not a fair comparison until you get done with your career. But he's an incredible talent. We've all known it from a young age. He's obviously got the ability to win anytime.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT