U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 18, 2011
Davis Love III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DAVIS LOVE III: I missed a lot of putts. I had a wedge in out of the rough, but still. I had a three-putt early and missed some birdie putts. Doesn't look like we're going to catch him, but still want to play better.

 Q. How did you look at the day, seeing where he was at and where he stayed?
 DAVIS LOVE III: Well, I didn't pay much attention to the scoreboard, I tried not to look at it. Obviously he was playing well. I was just trying to play my own game and hang in there and I was hitting the ball good, but didn't get a whole lot out of it again. Three days in a row it wasn't all putting. I was just not taking advantage of good drives.
 I got some up and down today, which was good, but I've driven it down 230 to the front on nine two days in a row and played it even par, so that's not very good. I'm hitting it better than I'm scoring. 

 Q. When Tiger was so dominant and are you thinking now here's our chance to win some Majors, and then here comes Rory. 
 DAVIS LOVE III: It doesn't matter who it is, he's far ahead. We're used to chasing guys, not that far ahead. I don't know what he's at now. 

 Q. 14. 
 DAVIS LOVE III: It makes Sunday a whole lot less interesting. But you still try to do it the best you can.

 Q. If it turns into another guy who starts dominating Majors --
 DAVIS LOVE III: We'll see. He's only won one yet. I doubt there will be another Tiger Woods. 

 Q. You want to shoot a good number, but then some guy comes up and puts up double digits in the red. Does that chase get old?
 DAVIS LOVE III: No, you can't change the way you play. You do the best you can. You can't worry about what he's doing. He's obviously playing fantastic golf. He was, I'd say, one swing from winning the Masters and then he hits it in the fairway on 10 and I think it was over. 
 A lot like Greg Norman that year. Greg, one swing, give him one swing back and he turns one of those doubles into a par, and he probably wins. He can shoot low, there's no question about that.

 Q. Do you remember what it was like to be 22 and sort of have that innocence?
 DAVIS LOVE III: I think he's about 27 in golf years. He's very polished on experience. When I was 22, I didn't have the wealth of experience he has. Scott Verplank winning a pro event, I don't think we've seen a rookie come out with his composure and be ready to play on our Tour right away like he is. He and Rickie Fowler I think are a lot alike. They're both very mature, very well rounded, smart guys that know where they want to go and how to get there. They're not just trying to figure it out; they're trying to win. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT