THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 15, 2011
Davis Love III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Talk a little about how the course is playing today?   
 DAVIS LOVE III: It's obviously softer than they wanted. It rained again during the night last night, so the greens are softer.   
 Surprisingly the ball was backing up a little bit. I almost backed it in the water at 17. So it's not the firm and fast they wanted, but it's still playing pretty tough. It's not easy out there, but it's not as difficult as they'd like it.  
  
  Q. How do you like your position headed into later today?   
 DAVIS LOVE III: Well, we'll see what they do coming in. I'd rather be, obviously, a little closer or ahead, but in a good position. Anybody can win. I think there is a big group of guys. Anybody that gets hot with the putter can win.  
  
  Q. Do you think your experience here means a lot?   
 DAVIS LOVE III: Well, it helps, it certainly helps. Different wind conditions, softer greens than you expect. I've seen it all around this course. It will help a little bit. I'll have good feelings about Sunday rounds here.  
  
  Q. You've had one of the most epic Sunday rounds here ever. Can you relate back to that? Though the weather is a little better in this one?  
 DAVIS LOVE III: I need another one, that's for sure. With all the guys up there it's going to take a big round. I've had a couple of good Sundays here, even some good Sundays that I didn't win. It's a course that inspired you to play well, and if you get on a roll, you feel like you can do it. If you go the opposite direction, it's a tough course. Hopefully I get off to a hot start and get the putter going.  
  
  Q. Logistically, once you get up and get back out here, all that kind of stuff this morning?   
 DAVIS LOVE III: Well, I felt like I was kind of flat yesterday. Waiting around, waiting around, teeing off at 6:20. I made one birdie and one bogey and just really wasn't sharp.   
 Came out today a little bit better, a little bit more excited about it because I knew my tee time and I knew what was going to happen and that I was going to have to play a lot of holes. I think I popped out of bed better today and got started better than yesterday.  
  
  Q. What do you do now for the next three or four hours?   
 DAVIS LOVE III: I'm hoping for a nap, just a catnap and just relax. It's going to be a long afternoon. It's not going to be as hot, but it's still going to be a long day. We've walked nine holes, ten holes, so just need to relax now.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT