THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 13, 2011
Davis Love III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Looking at the rest of the scores and the conditions this afternoon, do you feel pretty good about being able to get to where you were?   
 DAVIS LOVE III: Yeah, I haven't looked at the scores. I caught a glimpse of the leaderboard every once in a while. I try not to look and just go out and play.   
 But I played probably better today than I did yesterday because it was a little easy the first nine yesterday, and today it was tough all day. It was challenging, tricky winds, and the greens were obviously firmer and faster. So 3-under this afternoon is certainly better than 4-under yesterday.  
  
  Q. If the course continues to play like this or tougher over the weekend, what's it going to take for someone to make a dramatic move up?   
 DAVIS LOVE III: I don't know. If it keeps getting firmer and faster, like it usually does here, it gets tough on the weekend. So you're just going to have to play really well to be able to make birdies. And I think we've seen that here in the past. Guys will be shooting some good scores the first two days and then they're hard to come by on the weekend.  
  
  Q. Wind a bigger factor than the heat right now?   
 DAVIS LOVE III: The wind is definitely the biggest factor. It's really tricky. You're guessing a lot. Some of the holes are playing into the wind and playing really long, and some holes are playing unusually short. 18 played really short today; 17 played really short.   
 But, you know, like you said, I've got a lot of experience around here, so I'm used to it.  
  
  Q. What does it tell you about your game that you're 7-under, and 10-under is leading right now?   
 DAVIS LOVE III: Well, I played really well last week and didn't quite get enough out of it. I'm hitting the ball really solid and making a few putts. Right in there is where you want to be, a long way, obviously, and it's a good start.  
  
  Q. (Indiscernible)?  
 DAVIS LOVE III: No, this golf course, you have to play it the way it gives you, the way Pete wants you to play it. You can't all of a sudden decide to be careful or be aggressive, because it's not going to do you much good. So you have to play each hole the way it's designed. Like today, you have to adjust to the wind. If the greens get firmer and faster, you're just going to have to be that much more patient. You can't really be aggressive here. You have to play smart.  
  
  Q. Having won here before, even though the course has undergone a lot of changes, is there still something there for you to draw from when you come out here?   
 DAVIS LOVE III: Well, a little bit. I got on 16 green today and had a about a 10-footer for birdie, and I'm like, well, this doesn't look the way it used to look before they redid it. So I've got nothing to draw on here. Even though it was a putt I'd had before, it was a different green and different grass. Of course, I missed it and confused myself.   
 But there is that confidence factor that you know what to hit off the tees. Like 18 today I knew blowing straight downwind what to do. Certainly you play -- I think it's actually 20, my 25th time. You play that many times, you've got to learn something, so I'm pretty confident when I go out there that I have a good game plan for the golf course, it's just a matter of executing it.  
  
  Q. It's rare a Ryder Cup captain gets asked about playing or qualifying for the team. Is that something that you would do if you qualified?   
 DAVIS LOVE III: I'd rather play for sure. Probably be less pressure playing than captaining. It would throw a lot on my wife and my assistant captains, but I'd love to be talking to you about that this time next year and be playing that well.   
 Right now I'm trying to make Freddy's Presidents Cup team and trying to be ready for all the big ones. I'd love to be in the mix, but I've got a big responsibility on one side to get ready no matter what and then keep my game going at the same time. I'm not going to give an inch on either one of them, so I'm going to keep practicing hard on my golf.   
 I keep saying that next year probably won't be quite as much hunting and fishing as I did this year. It will have to cut into my free time.  
  
  Q. Your form has been really good as of late. Is there any turn for you, any significant moments?   
 DAVIS LOVE III: As I said yesterday, I got sick a couple times since the Florida Swing, and I haven't been prepared for a lot of tournaments lately. And Charlotte was the first time I felt like, all right, I'm ready to play. I feel good and I've practiced and I'm ready. I played the Pro-Am. I withdrew from the Pro-Am at Hilton Head. Didn't get to practice all week there. Withdrew from Bay Hill and wasn't ready when I went to Houston.   
 Kind of frustrated with the start to the spring, but now that I'm able to practice and I'm feeling better, the game's coming around. It's just a matter of putting the time in, and finally the last three weeks I've gotten to put some time in.  
  
  Q. Freddy's not the best at texting or emailing or things like that, but have you heard from him at all about making the team or anything?   
 DAVIS LOVE III: We've talked a little bit about it. Obviously, it would be a big thrill for me to make the team and play another Presidents Cup and to play for his team. I was trying really hard last time. That's the thing I've got to do is quit trying so hard to make the teams and just go out and play and have fun. But it would be fun to go with Fred down there.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT