THE McGLADREY CLASSIC
October 10, 2010
Davis Love III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Davis, how do you feel now that your playing days are over, at least for this event anyway?
 DAVIS LOVE III: Well, I'm disappointed with the way I played today, but you know, the tournament went great. I've never heard so many compliments about a tournament since I guess Charlotte started up. You know, it's been an incredible week for our team and the Sea Island company. So all a good week. I'll get over not playing well today, but you know, this tournament is a home run and we're really happy.

 Q. At the beginning of the day so many people were saying wouldn't it be great if Davis went out and posted a 64 or 63. You were thinking the same thing, I'm sure. 
 DAVIS LOVE III: I was, and the first six holes I was right there. I hit it really well. I hit it close, had my chances and just didn't make any putts. And then I just missed a fairway here or there and a green here or there, and it's hard to survive when you do that. 
 I see where the 74s and 5s are coming from out there because if you're not in the fairway or on the green, it's not a whole lot of scrambling out there. And I let it get away from me with just four or five shots.

 Q. The 18 is proving to be a challenge for everybody. Did you think that was going to be the case?
 DAVIS LOVE III: Well, I was kind of surprised. I hit it -- I guess what's happening is guys are hitting pretty good drives and they're going in the rough, and then when you go for it, it's hard to control the ball in that green from the rough. Tom Pernice almost made a birdie and he made it look kind of easy, but everybody else seems to be struggling, and it's not an easy hole coming back into the wind.

 Q. You sound a little fatigued. 
 DAVIS LOVE III: I'm more mad than fatigued. 

 Q. Okay. 
 DAVIS LOVE III: You know, the last two nights have been great. I'm pumped back up, and I played well enough where I got to sleep in on the weekend, so I'm just disappointed with the way I played, you know, to finish 2-over after shooting -- I made seven birdies yesterday and I made it look easy, and today it wasn't very easy, so just a little frustrated, but it'll be fun to hand it trophy out to somebody and get this week over with and start thinking about next year.

 Q. Davis, we appreciate all the hospitality. Thank you. 
 DAVIS LOVE III: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT