QUAIL HOLLOW CHAMPIONSHIP
May 1, 2010
Davis Love III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JOHN BUSH: We'd like to welcome Davis Love III into the interview room after a 4-under par 68. Davis, just a solid round today, four birdies, including three on your last five holes. Let's get your comments on your day.   
 DAVIS LOVE III: I didn't know three on the last five holes; that was good.   
 I hit the ball real well yesterday, one of the best ball-striking rounds certainly in a while, and didn't get much out of it, so it was good to make some putts today. I made a nice par putt at 1 and obviously a nice par putt at 16 and a couple good up-and-downs for birdie and made one other one for birdie and one other one for par. It was a good, solid day of scoring. Maybe didn't hit it quite as good as yesterday, but good ball-striking all week and pretty solid play and just happy to have holed a few putts.   
 I hit a few close. I hit a nice putt at 14, but the rest of them were pretty close. But like I said, a nice par putt at 16 kept the round going.   
  
  Q. Do you get good vibes in Charlotte playing here?   
 DAVIS LOVE III: Well, you know, I obviously didn't grow up playing golf here, so it wasn't a -- there's not a whole lot of golfing memories here, but I've got a lot of family. Johnny and Mac Everett have been very nice to give me enough tickets for my gallery. My daughter came up with some friends, so I had good support.   
 Yeah, it's always nice to come back to North Carolina no matter what and hear all the "Go, Heels" and all that.   
 This is a great -- I went out to pitch this morning and Derek Lamely was out there just working on his game, and he goes, "Isn't this place so nice?" I'm like, "yeah." I guess he missed the cut and he was just out practicing, and he was happy.   
 This is a great place to play golf. It's like a mini-major. It's in great condition, and it's tough. The golf course is tough, but you just get a good feeling playing here. You feel like you're in a big tournament.   
  
  Q. You said you didn't realize you birdied three of your last five. So momentum can carry from one to the next when you finish strong like that?  
 DAVIS LOVE III: Well, my momentum, the way I finished yesterday, I kept hitting good shots and missing little putts and three-putted 8 and didn't finish real well yesterday, and then had a ten-footer for par at the first hole. So momentum was right there. I made that putt and then birdied 3 and got off to a good start, and I still -- I still three-putted 5 and didn't get up-and-down from just the side of the green at 7, so I was still throwing a few shots away. But I was hitting it solid and being patient.   
 Like I said, I did make a good putt at 14 and then hit a good little chip at 15 to get an easy birdie. And then obviously you saw 17; I hit it close. And it's always nice to two-putt for par on 18. Even though it was in the bunker, I didn't have that hard a shot.   
 I got a little good feeling about my ball-striking, and it's carried through the whole week.  
 JOHN BUSH: What did you hit on 17?   
 DAVIS LOVE III: I hit a 6-iron and was just trying to get it over the hump, run down the hill, somewhere down on the bottom and no be too aggressive to that pin. But it flew back there a lot farther than we thought and got all the way back to the pin. It's kind of a bowl back there; if you can get it right of the hole it'll come around to it. I wouldn't be surprised if somebody holed it or lipped it out that hit it in the back that kind of funnels it down there. If you miss it right of the pin, right of the green or obviously long, it's not good, so I wasn't shooting very far back in there, just got a gust and got to the hole.   
  
  Q. Obviously you don't know what the lead is going to be at the end of the day, but how do you approach tomorrow now?  
 DAVIS LOVE III: The same way I've been approaching really my last few starts. I'm just trying to stay patient because I know I'm not hitting it bad and I'm not getting a whole lot out of my game. I know I'll be close at the end of the day if not near the last group. So just be patient and try to enjoy playing and keep my swing pace.   
 My rhythm has really been good this week. I went out Tuesday and we got brought in from the storm and then went out with Wednesday being a really important practice round for me and felt like I got some rhythm with my swing on Wednesday and carried it through.   
 It's obviously a tough course, but if you can hit the ball solid, it'll give you some chances to make some birdies. Certainly 7-under is not an extremely low score, but I think that's pretty low on this golf course, so it shows that I'm hitting the ball real well. And if I just keep doing that, be patient, like I said, get it under the hole some, don't try to hit it at every pin -- this is like Augusta; if you hit it above the pin on every hole, you're not going to be making a whole lot of birdies. You've got to be putting uphill or sidehill, not hitting it in the wrong spots. Sometimes that's behind the hole. But usually if you keep it short of the hole on most of these greens, you're going to do pretty good.   
 JOHN BUSH: Davis, thanks for coming by. Play well tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT