THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT
June 5, 2009
Davis Love III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. What's it like out there to begin with? A lot of people said the greens are pretty unwieldy right now because they're so fast. 
 DAVIS LOVE III: Yeah. I think the afternoon yesterday and the afternoon today was tougher to score than the morning. It dried out. Obviously, Friday afternoons are always harder to putt, you know, bumpwise. 
 I told Jack yesterday, the greens are just unbelievable. They're so good. He said, we did same thing we did last year. I said, well, they're better this year. If you hit a good putt, they'll go in. They're just really fast. Some of the pin placements were really on some slopes. 
 If you're putting uphill for birdies or pars, it doesn't look that hard. If you're putting downhillers all day, which you can easily do, or you're hitting it over the greens and chipping back, it's tough. 

 Q. Did you find that you were putting yourself in good spots? 
 DAVIS LOVE III: Yeah, I scrambled around the first nine. I started on the back. And I had some birdie putts, but also it was scrambling around a little bit. I was a little more solid on the front nine. I was putting. I only had one I had to get up and down on at 4. I was left of the hole, where I could chip up the hill rather than chipping down the hill. 
 That's what I was saying, on holes like that on 14, you're almost better off short-siding yourself than missing the other way because, if you're chipping down the greens, over the green on 18, stuff like that, you've got no chance. You've got to be in the right position. 

 Q. Is it any kind of like advantage at all to finish on the back nine? I mean, from the standpoint of this seems to be set up, the way the finishing holes here are so tough. 
 DAVIS LOVE III: Not really. 

 Q. You understand what I'm asking. Not that any of them are easy, I guess? 
 DAVIS LOVE III: You've got to play them eventually, though. You've got to play 17 and 18. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT