WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 26, 2006
Davis Love III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
CHRIS REIMER:  Davis Love, just start and talk a little bit about your day today.
DAVIS LOVE III:  Well, a lot like Tiger, had a good streak and a bad streak and ended up still with a chance to win.  I hit the ball real well, just didn't get the ball in the hole quite as well as I did yesterday.  I'm real happy with the way I'm hitting it, and if I can get a couple more putts to drop, I'll be in good shape.
Q.  You got to 11 and then you sort of struggled.  What started it, or was there any one thing in particular?
DAVIS LOVE III:  Well, I had a tough two putt at 12 and didn't two putt it, and then 13 is always a hard drive, and I didn't get it in the fairway.  So a couple bogeys in a row kind of stalled me.  And then didn't make a couple birdie putts I had after that and didn't make a short one.  The greens got a little crusty and a little bumpy and spiky.  I hit a couple good putts that didn't go in.  That's just the way it is when you're playing in the last group.

I missed a couple and bounced a couple over spike marks that didn't go in, and that's really the difference is just really scoring.
Q.  When Tiger is kind of backing up and you're making some putts, was that almost like the best you've felt?  What was that feeling like?
DAVIS LOVE III:  Well, I was playing pretty good.  I wasn't playing that great, it was just that he was bogeying every hole.  There's other guys that both of us were concerned about, not just the two of us.  I knew Paul Casey was putting together a good round and obviously I heard them yelling for Stewart.

Just trying to keep pace, and it played a lot like a major this afternoon like the PGA didn't.  It got hard and fast, and every shot you had to be real precise with.  You saw both of us where you hit a good shot and it ended up just over the green.  That shows you that the greens are hard and fast, and it's hard to get the ball close to the hole, and when you did, there was tricky putts.  It was tough to score.  I felt good all day.  I hit good shots off the tee at 17 and 18 and didn't convert them, which was unfortunate.

But all in all, I'm happy with the way I hit it and I feel like I can score tomorrow.
Q.  I know it's early, only Saturday, but I'm wondering, A, if you ever saw highlights of the shot we were trying to explain to you yesterday?
DAVIS LOVE III:  No.
Q.  You never saw a highlight?
DAVIS LOVE III:  No, there wasn't anything on The Speed Channel last night.  Kyle Petty always calls me and says I'm watching the golf, and I call him and I say I'm watching the racing.  I try not to watch the golf.
Q.  Realizing, again, it's only Saturday, when Tiger is on a streak like this and gets a big break like he got yesterday and even one last week at Medinah when the guy swats it back into the fairway and then he chips in on 3 on a course where he's quite comfortable, do you find yourself thinking, here it comes again?
DAVIS LOVE III:  Well, you just expect he's going to play well.  When he made four bogeys in a row, I said, you know, I've never seen that, but I've seen him make four birdies in a row, though, and I knew it was going to come eventually.  Even though he had to do it scrambling around he hung in there real well.  Just the way we're playing, you can't help but make some birdies and you can't help but make some bogeys.  Just both of us have to be a little bit more consistent tomorrow.

You know that he's playing well and Stewart is playing well and obviously Paul Casey had a good day today, so it's going to be a shootout.
Q.  We don't know what the weather is going to do, but if it dumps some rain on this course, how many guys are in this thing?
DAVIS LOVE III:  I haven't looked at the scoreboard other than figuring out who's going to play with who, so I don't know how far down the good scores go.  You saw today, those guys came from pretty far back to get up to the lead.  This has always been a golf course where if you get it rolling you can shoot 6  or 7 under, and if you don't play well, you can shoot a couple over real fast.  It's going to be possible, especially if it gets soft.
Q.  With the field bunched up, would you prefer that it stay like it is now, though, versus soft and long?
DAVIS LOVE III:  I think you're going to have to play very well, whether it's firm or soft.  I like it like this.  It's kind of like a major.  It makes it play very precise.
Q.  Tiger said he feels pretty fortunate to be just a stroke back after his round today.  Do you feel like you let a lot of guys back in?
DAVIS LOVE III:  You know, if I could have got it in 11 or 12, that would have been nice.  Certainly I have to go finish the round off tomorrow like I didn't do today.  I had kind of a good patch there in the middle, and I need to keep that going.  Obviously it's going to take somebody shooting a good score to win.  I probably did let a few more guys in, but they're still going to have to come up with the same number to win.
Q.  All those circumstances that you just talked about notwithstanding, do you feel good about the way this week is working out after a year that I'm sure by your standards isn't what you wanted, that you're in the hunt at an event that is playing on a course like a major?
DAVIS LOVE III:  Yeah, it's nice to be around the lead and it's nice to do it on a golf course that you always respect and always plays tough.  I've done well here in the past, so I always enjoy playing here.  I've said it 100 times this year, I've just got to put four good rounds together.  I've had two pretty good ones and one average one, so I need a really good one tomorrow and balance it out.  There's a lot of guys that have a chance, and it's nice to be in the mix, and I plan on being in the mix a lot.

Obviously last week was kind of do or die, and this week is not do or die.  It's just try to play and have fun and try to win a golf tournament.
Q.  When you think you're going into a shootout, do you think you kind of hang back a little bit from the back nine or go after it right away?
DAVIS LOVE III:  I play the way I always do, try to birdie every hole and see how many you can get.  You've just got to go out and be patient tomorrow because you're right, if you par the first six, it doesn't mean you still can't be in it.  Somebody is going to shoot a really low score and win.  Again, I haven't really seen the leaderboard, but I would think anybody within three or four shots has a real good chance.
Q.  Your name is up there, by the way.
DAVIS LOVE III:  I'm one back, right?  I'd better go to the range (laughter).


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT