PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 17, 2006
Davis Love III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Given how you've played this year, what does this round mean to you?
DAVIS LOVE III:  Well, it's a good start.  Obviously I'd like to have two or three swings over again.  A couple par 3s I hit the wrong club and blew it over the green and made an up and down and I didn't get up and down a couple times.  All in all, it's a good start.  I'm 4 under.  I'm not leading, but I'm off to a good start.  I've got the good greens in the morning, and I'm putting very well.  If I can get the ball on the green, I think I can do a good job.
Q.  What happened on 17?
DAVIS LOVE III:  I just hit the wrong club.  My caddie wanted me to hit 7, and I was first up, and I wasn't really comfortable with 7, so I tried to cut a 6 and hit a draw 6 instead, and that combination doesn't work real well.

You know, if I would have hit the shot I was trying to hit, I would have been maybe on the back of the green and at worst maybe a bogey.  You know, that's the way it goes.  Sometimes you hit the wrong club and sometimes you pull the right one.  I didn't pull the right one.
Q.  What was the second shot?  What happened there?
DAVIS LOVE III:  I just went right under it.  It was teed up in the rough and I thought maybe I could flip it into the fringe and have it not go all the way across the green into the lake, and I just went right under it.  Then you've got the same shot from a worse lie.  I was taking a chance, trying to put it in the fringe and let it bounce onto the green somewhere because if I flew it halfway in the middle of the green it's in the lake.  That's always the danger on a hole like that.  If you leave it short, you're in the lake.  If you hit it way over, now you've got another chance to hit it in the lake, and that's the position I was in.
Q.  You had to be a little sour at that point, but you're still right there.
DAVIS LOVE III:  Overall.  My dad always said, "You're two swings away from the course record."  That's the way I look at it.  I hit a couple iron shots and a couple drives really that weren't good.  Other than that, I played very, very well.  You know, I'm 4 under.  That's not going to win in the end, but that's a good start.  It's a better start than last week in my quest for trying to win a tournament.  I was  4 points the first day last week and came back and played pretty well the next two days, but this week I put myself in a position where I can run from here instead of play catch up.
Q.  How heavy is the Ryder Cup on your mind?
DAVIS LOVE III:  I'm trying to block it out.  Obviously this one tournament is as important as anything I'm doing right now.  If I play well here and give myself a chance to win, the rest of it'll take care of itself.
Q.  With your experience, what's the best way to block out the last few holes and start fresh tomorrow?
DAVIS LOVE III:  Well, I just made a couple bad swings.  I'm going to do that at some point during the rest of the week.  Just hopefully it's not with the wrong club.  You know, I'm 4 under.  That's the only way I can look at it.  Just go play.  There's not very many guys ahead of me.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT