WACHOVIA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 4, 2006
Davis Love III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  How are you feeling?
DAVIS LOVE III:  I've been feeling pretty good.  I have the same old stuff here and there, but nothing I haven't been dealing with.  It's pretty good.  I've played a lot, though.  I'm tired after playing four in a row.  But now I feel pretty good.
Q.  Talk about getting in a good workout program even when you weren't feeling well.  Did that help?
DAVIS LOVE III:  I've held up real well with it.  I had a little break during The Masters and I felt like that wasn't a good time to be lifting a whole lot of weights.  But since then picked it back up and right on schedule.  A week marks a year, so I've made it a year, a year on the program.  I'm doing good.
Q.  (Inaudible).
DAVIS LOVE III:  We've been talking about that.  The snow is melting and we need to get by there.  We had three different people go through there and we all kind of came up with the same recommendations.  If we were doing greens complexes, I would have been there a whole bunch, but since we're not really messing with the greens, once we figured out what we were going to do, and the reports from the guys that are there said that they're real happy with it.  My brother will be there for sure, and I may be there.
Q.  (Inaudible).
DAVIS LOVE III:  It's close enough.  I'd like to see it before September.  I'd like to see it before it's final final.  The pictures I've seen and all the drawings, that's one that was pretty straightforward.  But when we do greens, my brother and I are on top of it.  So that way, like we were saying.

I know what we tried to do with the fairways.  I think it'll work good.
Q.  I'm doing a story on Pro Ams, and obviously you play in a million of them.  Do you have any kind of favorite quotes or stories of guys driving to out drive you or looking for that magic tip?
DAVIS LOVE III:  No, there's always the guys trying to play really good.  Somebody asked me that the other day and I couldn't come up with one but then I came up with one later, which always happens.

My brother was caddying for me at La Costa back when it had a Pro Am, and I guess it was    a guy topped it and it was wet and went in front of him and then it spun back and went behind him.  We said, now we've seen it all.  We've seen every shot that can be hit.  I've never seen one go spinning backwards.

He hit it again and hit it in the rough and then he hit it down there and he was in the first cut of the fairway, and he hit it and he topped it again, and it went straight down and he lost it.  It was in the dirt.  It went in the dirt so far down that we couldn't find it.  We would have had to have a shovel to dig it up.  It was like six or eight inches down in the mud.
Q.  What's the USGA rule on that?
DAVIS LOVE III:  I told him just to pick up.  That's when we said maybe we haven't seen it all and we've got to keep on our toes.
Q.  Tell us quick about your day today, how the course is playing.
DAVIS LOVE III:  The course is playing hard.  Obviously you can tell by the scores, not many real low ones.  I played pretty good in spots.  I was a little spotty, but I putted well when I had to and I hit some good shots and made a couple really nice par putts and one really nice eagle putt and a couple nice birdie putts.  I would say all in all, I putted pretty well and kept it for the most part out of trouble.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT