WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 25, 2006
Davis Love III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Tell us about that finish, just how you visualized it?
DAVIS LOVE III:  I visualized it going up real close, where I had to tap it in.  I didn't expect to make it.  Yeah, I laid it up to a really good yardage and after missing the green on 17, just missing the long    just hitting the wrong putt; I knew I had the right club.  I've been swinging around, it's just every once in a while you get lucky.
Q.  (Inaudible).
DAVIS LOVE III:  I knew when it was in the air it was going to be real good.  When you hit the greens, you never know how much it's going to spin.  So I was wondering how far it was going to spin back or if it would spin back.  And then when it disappeared I was excited.  I said I'm going to either win 17 or 18, after I didn't win 16.  I knew I had to win one of the last two holes.  I was fortunate to win that one.
Q.  Does that affect you, when you're playing a guy that's struggling and he's trying to find his game?
DAVIS LOVE III:  He struggled a little bit early.  Other than a bad chip and putt at 11, he really breaks out, not necessarily at 14.  But other than that he played pretty solid.  None of us was making birdie every hole.  But we were both playing
Q.  Still a big shot in Davis Love's career?
DAVIS LOVE III:  It was exciting, that's for sure.  It's great to win that way, after hitting the wrong club at 17 and to come back and hit the perfect shot.
Q.  What did you hit?
DAVIS LOVE III:  Pitching wedge.  It makes you forget the wrong club the hole before.  I had a chance on 16, hit a great shot on 16 and missed the putt.

When you get a bad round and feel like you should finish him out, it's a bad feeling to have to go to play extra.  I'm excited in the way I finished.
Q.  What was your yardage?
DAVIS LOVE III:  I had 126.  I had 112 to the hole.
Q.  It was a pitching wedge?
DAVIS LOVE III:  It was a perfect shot for me to hold down and keep it under the wind.  I was ready.
Q.  You play Zach Johnson now, right?
DAVIS LOVE III:  Yeah.  He's obviously playing well, too.  I'm just going to keep moving on.
Q.  You talked earlier in the week about avoiding the numbers.  You've had a pretty good year.  You've just had one hole, maybe, per round.  Have you gotten rid of those?  Do you feel like those are behind you as far as this week goes?
DAVIS LOVE III:  You never know in this game.  I'm driving it in a lot more fairways, I'm hitting a lot more solid shots.  I'm gaining confidence with the putter.  The reason you make big numbers is because you're trying too hard.  You might pop it over with your putter, so you try to make it up by hitting a miracle shot.  You turn bogeys into doubles or worse.  I'm a little bit more patient the way I'm hitting the ball.
Q.  (Inaudible).
DAVIS LOVE III:  Yeah, he's doing good.  I guess nobody wants to knock off the Ryder Cup captain; they'll get in trouble.  Has he played Americans all the way?  Oh, no, he played Allenby.  Yeah, the Americans don't want to knock him off.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT