WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 24, 2006
Davis Love III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Davis Love III, congratulations on making it to the quarter finals of the Accenture Match Play Championship.  You beat Chris DiMarco today, obviously one of the hottest match play players in the world so a good win for you.
DAVIS LOVE III:  It was a very good win.  He wasn't one of the hottest match play players today; neither one of us were hot.  But I certainly played solid and kept out of trouble and he got in trouble a couple of times.  He had a lot of pressure on his putter and he didn't make a whole lot of putts and I did.  So that was really the match.
Q.  Is this getting to the point at this tournament on a day when Tiger, Phil, and who knows who else is going to get knocked out, it isn't out of the ordinary in this tournament?
DAVIS LOVE III:  I think we saw that the first year when top seeds went flying the first day.  Tiger said it after the    I think it was after the second match, it doesn't matter what you did yesterday, you know, it's a new day, a new match, and anything can happen.  You see that in match play and that's why we don't do it every week.  It's a little too volatile to do it every week.
Q.  Is that the veteran in you, Davis, where you know that you're going to have to start over again where you can just forget about yesterday whether it was good or bad and just start it all over again?
DAVIS LOVE III:  I think you know that you have to come out each match playing hard.  You can't say, well, I played good yesterday, so I'm going to win tomorrow.  You can take some confidence in there, but you still have to have that sense of urgency, that it's not just going to happen if you just go out there and play.  You have to go out and play hard and be positive and be focused.  And you've got to work hard all the way through the match because you never know when things are going to turn.
Q.  There was one year you made a point of not really unpacking and you didn't iron your stuff.  Do you remember that?  Do you do that every year, do you still do that?
DAVIS LOVE III:  I iron every day.  I know what I would wear tomorrow and what I would wear Sunday, but it's not ironed yet.  But you don't want to make a flight for Sunday night.  You want to hang in there with a positive attitude that I'm going to win every day.  But you don't want to be    you don't want to look past your next match.
Q.  Do your chances    with all that being said, do your chances get a little better as the top seeds start falling out?
DAVIS LOVE III:  You know, I don't know.  I don't think anybody of the eight that are left are going to be wishing Tiger was here.  I don't know that I would want to be playing Zach Johnson.  You never know who's the hot player, who's the guy with the hot putter.  I think it's still match play.  Anybody can beat anybody.  You certainly have a different feeling if you're playing Tiger Woods or Phil Mickelson if they're playing well.  But I think anybody can beat anybody.  And if you made it this far you're playing pretty good.
Q.  Are you saying you can beat anybody?  Is this where if you play bad you can still win, but for the most part you are going to have to play well, because everyone that has made it this far is playing well?
DAVIS LOVE III:  Yeah, we said that yesterday.  I expected to have to make a bunch of birdies to beat Chris, and I made a few but    on the front nine, but he made a couple of critical mistakes.  And those holes that he made mistakes on I played solid on.  I parred the par 5, 8, into the wind, and that was pretty much the match.  I had one good up and down that probably hurt him a little bit.  But pretty much when he made a mistake I played solid.

So I thought I might have to make six or eight birdies, if he got typical fist pumping Chris DiMarco, but we never got    neither one of us really got to that point.  Sometimes you play at the level you have to.
Q.  Beginning of the year we talked about your game and how you worked really hard coming in and you were trying to work through it.  Where is your game now in your own mind?
DAVIS LOVE III:  I think I'm real close to where I want to be physically, like after playing a few matches and working hard all week, I hit a lot of balls yesterday and came back today and felt 100 percent.  I didn't feel like I'd worn myself out.  And I think that's the biggest difference is now I can go into the weekend knowing that I'm feeling well and I'm strong enough and I don't have any physical limitations; I'm ready to go out and play.

I've worked hard on my golf swing and it's getting better and I'm having more and more confidence in it the more tournament rounds I play.  And I've had a couple of big number holes here and there during each tournament I've played, or I would have had some good tournaments.  So I'm feeling really good about it.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Davis, thanks.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT