WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 22, 2006
Davis Love III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
What suits you here?  You've played very well, played in the finals once here.  What suits you with this course?

DAVIS LOVE III:  Well, I've played here a lot for one thing.  I played here back for the Tournament of Champions.  I think match play suits me.   Have a good attitude towards it and I enjoy playing it, and I enjoy the competition.


Q.  What's the difference between 1 and 67 in golf?  We know the difference between the Houston Texans and the Pittsburgh Steelers, but is there that big a difference?

DAVIS LOVE III:  There's not.  In a one match play event, there really isn't.  1 plays 64, yeah, Tiger is the favorite.  But anything can happen.  It is golf, and things can go one way or another real quick in an 18 hole match.


Q.  Do you approach this a lot differently than you would a normal tournament, or is it the same preparation, same approach?

DAVIS LOVE III:  I think mentally you have to prepare a little bit different to be ready to go right from the first hole.  You win the first two holes, it takes a lot of pressure off you.  You have to be prepared for anything, for getting 3 up like I did and all of a sudden being back to even.  So you have to be mentally prepared, and you have to play a little bit differently in match play than you do when you have four rounds to go. 


Q.  Nice chip in there at the end. 

DAVIS LOVE III:  Yeah, nice to finish that way, finish with a birdie.  You know, we both hit some good shots and we both hit some bad shots, and it could have gone either way.  It just came down to a couple putts and a chip in, and I'm the one that got them.


Q.  You started out pretty quick.  I think you were 3 up at one point. 

DAVIS LOVE III:  Yeah, I was 3 up early.  I made a good putt and had a tap in birdie on 3, and then he made a couple mistakes, so I got up.  Then I kind of made a couple mistakes and let him right back in it.  It was typical match play.  It was kind of up and down.  If either one of us could have sustained a roll, it could have come out either way. 


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT