PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 12, 2005
Davis Love III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.
What did you do best today?
DAVIS LOVE III:  Well, I hit the ball real solid, made a couple nice par putts and hit the ball real solid and made real patient golf.  It was obviously the biggest crowd out there the last two days, so it was nice to block all that out and play and have fun.
Q.  How tenuous is a lead on this layout with these conditions?
DAVIS LOVE III:  Well, you've got to hit a lot of fairways, and if you don't, it's hard to score.  I don't think anybody is really worried quite about the lead yet, it's just continuing to play.  The guys that are playing well continue to play like they're playing, hitting fairways and greens and holing a few putts.  This golf course will bite you if you don't pay attention to what you're doing, so keep playing one shot at a time.
Q.  Are you surprised that 8 under is winning after two rounds?
DAVIS LOVE III:  No, I think this morning it played fairly easy.  You know, it was very calm.  The greens were very good.  You know, there were some birdies out there this morning for sure.  I'm not surprised.  I'd be surprised if that keeps    16 under would be really good, but I think    it's not surprising.  You usually see that the first two days, somebody has a good round and gets ahead.
Q.  Is the heat hot enough to be a factor out there physically, or are you guys okay?
DAVIS LOVE III:  I think after last week it's pretty flat and normal here.  Yeah, I think we're used to it.  It's just drying the course out a little bit the way they want it, firming it up a little bit.
Q.  What's your strategy on 1 through 7?
DAVIS LOVE III:  Hit the fairways and hit the greens really.  They're some of the harder holes, and the better you can get off to a start, you know, if you can make a birdie or two, you feel like you're really stealing them.  You've got to hit fairways, you've got to hit greens, and I've been fortunate to get off to a good start on those holes, and if you do miss a fairway, you've just got to play patient because they're tough holes and there's got to be a lot of bogeys on them.
Q.  What do you think of 17 and what have you hit there the first two days?
DAVIS LOVE III:  Well, I hit it in the fairway once and laid up and hit it in the rough today and didn't quite get over and then hit a great shot to get on in 3.  I mean, it's long.
Q.  What did you hit for the third shot?
DAVIS LOVE III:  Today I hit a 6 iron.  Yesterday I hit a wedge.
Q.  Do you like the hole?
DAVIS LOVE III:  If you hit the fairway, it plays like a par 3 really.  Hit the fairway, hit a 5 iron and hit a wedge in.  You know, it's not as big a deal I think as people are making it.  It's a long par 5 that they have deep rough on, so if you miss the fairway, it becomes a hard hole.  If you hit the fairway, it's actually pretty easy.
Q.  In this day and age do you like risk reward holes for professionals where you have a shot to get there in two or do you think there's a place for a legitimate three shot par 5?
DAVIS LOVE III:  I think if you have a variety of holes it's good.  They've got some short par 4s, long par 4s, they have one reachable par 5 and one unreachable par 5.  That's a good balance.

I'd like six par 5s but that's not going to happen.  I think if you look at this course it's very balanced.  The par 3s today, today Kerry set it up where there was a little more variety on the course in par 3s, but this course has everything, a lot of variety, a lot of different shots.
Q.  Phil went birdie eagle on 17 and 18 today.  Having two par 5s next to each other like that, can that give you a real slingshot effect in your round?
DAVIS LOVE III:  Yeah, obviously the rest of the week is just going to be the last two holes, but 17 really is just    it's not really a par 5.  You know, like I said, it's almost like a par 3.  If you can drive it in the fairway and lay up, you're just playing a wedge shot, 9 iron shot.  It's more a position hole than a par 5, but it's nice to have 18 for some excitement for the last hole.
Q.  You flew a little under the radar at the U.S. Open because you had that rough start.  You played really unbelievably well I think the last 50 or so holes.  Do you recall that and did that give you a taste of what's ahead?
DAVIS LOVE III:  Yeah, the first 27 weren't that good at the U.S. Open, and I kind of shot myself out of it to the point where I relaxed and maybe played better coming in just because I felt like I was almost out of it, and I said this week I was going to get off to a better start and be more patient and more focused on the first day, and I think I just    the last few majors I've really gotten frustrated on the first day right out of the box when things didn't go my way.  So I'm a lot more patient here, and hopefully I can play this weekend like I played the weekend at the U.S. Open.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT