MCI HERITAGE
April 14, 2005
Davis Love III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Jose, pretty tough weather conditions, isn't it?

JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL:  Yeah, it was tough.  It's very windy, it's cold.  Obviously this is not making things any easier at all.
Q.  How much did it affect the ball flight?

JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL:  Well, it affected it a lot, especially on the holes like 17, 18.

18 was playing really, really tough.  When you play with the trees and everything, you know, the wind is swirling around and it's difficult to judge the distance right.
Q.  Anything under par has got to be a good score today, though, right?

JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL:  Yes, it is good.  Yeah, I think so.
Q.  Your group was the best group of the day so far.

JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL:  Well, we managed to make a few birdies and Darren got it going.  I made a few there, and then Bob had an unlucky finish on 18, otherwise he played solid.
Q.  Were you guys kind of feeding off each other?

JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL:  We were just trying to concentrate on what we had to do.  It was very difficult out there today.


DAVIS LOVE  III
Q.   Just talk about how tough it was out there today, just the cold conditions.
DAVIS LOVE III:  It was very bad.  We knew on the range that 17 and 18 were going to be tough and into the wind and we were going to have to grind it out, and starting on the back nine probably wasn't the place to start.

Yeah, I hung in there and got some birdies on the front, and I made a bunch of solid pars on the first nine, the back, and scrambled a little bit and made some putts.

I bogeyed the two hardest holes, 18 and 8.  Other than that, I played pretty good.
Q.  You've been here a number of times.  Have you seen weather like this before?
DAVIS LOVE III:  We've hit long shots into 18 a couple times.  It seems like every once in a while, you'll get a cold, windy day, and when it's cooler here, the wind is in on 18 for some reason.  The field staff figured it out and we could tee it up on 18 today, which was nice.  It would have been a 3-wood today.

The field staff figured it out and moved the tee up on 18 today, which was nice.  It would have been a 3-wood today if they hadn't have put the tee up.  They had it up 35 yards, and 35 yards, that's a serious hole.

Every once in a while, it's very rare, though, obviously usually it's hot and muggy.
Q.  That said, is it surprising Darren Clarke got to 7-under at two different junctures on the back?
DAVIS LOVE III:  Did he finish 7?
Q.  He finished 6.
DAVIS LOVE III:  Yeah, we were joking all the way around that he thought he was in Ireland again, but it's a heck of a round.  I guess he's probably three shots clear so far, and that's -- it just shows that he's been working hard.  I think he's been playing pretty good, just not getting a lot out of it.

I played practice with him last week some, and he was playing really good.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT