THE RYDER CUP MATCHES
September 19, 2004
Davis Love III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Can you describe what your emotions have been like to play against Darren?
DAVIS LOVE III:  Darren and I just said on the 18th tee that we couldn't believe we were in that situation; that we didn't think we would be playing on 18.

But he hit a great chip there at 17.  I told him on 18, I said, "I should punch you in the nose for the chip-in and for missing that putt."

It was an exciting match.  He holed a lot of putts, you know, and he kept himself in it when he hit bad shots, and I didn't hole a lot.  So it was a fun day though.
Q.  A little bit messy at the end there.  Did you feel that that was about right though, a halve?
DAVIS LOVE III:  Well, it's not what either one of us wanted, but in the end, the way it looks like it's going, this isn't going to be the deciding match.

So as far as friends go and the Ryder Cup, I think it was a good ending.  I told Darren I should have punched him in the nose for chipping in and then for missing that putt.  But we're good friends and it's hard to have one lose.  And we both had some good breaks and some bad breaks, so it was a good match.
Q.  How much hope do you have for the Americans to pull off something really special?
DAVIS LOVE III:  I have no idea what's going on.  I knew that Tiger, Phil and I had to win to get it really started at the and we didn't do that.  So I don't know what they're doing farther back.

But we had some guys play some good golf today and it was a lot of fun to hang in there, and I just wish I would have made a birdie on one of those two holes that he birdied coming in.
Q.  Maybe you could tell us about the hole week here at the Ryder Cup, are you happy with what's transpired?
DAVIS LOVE III:  No, I'm disappointed, I didn't play very well, and I'm disappointed for Chad Campbell and Fred Funk and Tiger that I didn't play better when I played with them.  Stewart Cink's going around telling everybody how great I played with him, but that was really the only day I played great.  And Tiger Woods and Phil Mickelson and Davis Love are supposed to play great and none of us did.
Q.  It's kind of tough when you get behind the 8-ball so much like you were today coming in to catch up.  Is it something about playing four-ball and the foursomes that give you Americans problems?
DAVIS LOVE III:  Well, we're not doing it very well.  I don't know what it is.  But Hal said all week, "Let's get going right from the beginning."  And next time, we've got to do better at getting off to a better start.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT