WGC NEC INVITATIONAL
August 22, 2004
Davis Love III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.   Just your thoughts today about coming back.
DAVIS LOVE III:  Well, I played better today.  I gave away a lot of shots yesterday.  It's frustrating that I didn't do any better yesterday, get myself in a better position.  I came out today a little more determined to stay with what I was     what got me here, and I think I was a little out of my routine all week really, the last couple weeks, so I did a better job today, and I could have, should have shot even lower, but the course played hard, and I got a good score and I'll get a Top 5 out of it at least.

After three putting 18 yesterday, I was pretty disappointed.  I putted better today and hung in there pretty good today.
Q.   You did not have a great PGA, but that was a tough setup like this one.  What was the turning point this week that made your round here so much better?
DAVIS LOVE III:  Well, I went home and worked with my teacher, Jack Lumpkin a little bit and he gave me a little drill to work on to get my swing a little bit more consistent.  My swing was better, and I hit a lot of good drives, and I was in the rough like everybody else, but I think I just hit the ball better than I did at the PGA.  I lost a few drives there, which here if you hit them way off line, get under a tree, you can chip out.  There you can get in a disaster, and I guess I had a double and a triple the first day and that just killed me, got me behind the eight ball, and it's hard to come back.  I played more consistent here than I did there.
Q.   Looks like more than half the guys on the Ryder Cup team are going to finish under par here.  How do you see that as it relates to the Ryder Cup?
DAVIS LOVE III:  I saw that right on the leaderboard there was three or four guys there right at the top, maybe four guys right in a row.  It's good.  I think Stewart can relax now and play.  I know that position, it's hard to be grinding right at the end and trying to make the team.  Chris obviously had an emotional two weeks, and now he can relax and play.  I think our team will kind of start playing better, especially those guys down there in Riley on up.  They can relax a little bit and quit trying to make points and just play.
Q.   How important is that going into that week when you all get thrown together as far as playing well and timing it?
DAVIS LOVE III:  Well, I think we just need to do something to putt better.  I don't want to go in and say, "oh, my gosh," if we don't putt good in this tournament, and freak everybody out, but we need to putt good, and it looks like we're putting good as a team.

Even Tiger, he's not driving it great, but he's putting good for the most part, and Stewart is putting great and chipping great.  He's chipping in, and DiMarco is obviously putting well.  David Toms has not been David Toms of late, but he's showing signs that he's putting better and shooting better scores, so I think everybody is excited and peaking.  That's what we need.  We'll be fired up to play, just if we can get six or eight guys coming in there playing really, really well, we'll be in good shape.
Q.   On paper, of course, the Americans are considered the favorites.  Is that really the case do you think?
DAVIS LOVE III:  Well, yeah, we're always the favorites.  I think that's maybe sometimes hurtful to us and helps them that everybody thinks we should win, we're going to win, but match play anything can happen.  I mean, we saw it at the U.S. Amateur this week.  I had ten guys that I thought had a chance, and after the first day six of them were gone.

You never know in match play, and it always seems to     that's the great equalizer and that's why we don't play it out here very much because TV would get bored with it if the top guys kept getting knocked off.
Q.   So many of the Ryder Cup guys played well here and you're going up to play a course designed by the same guy.
DAVIS LOVE III:  I think Hal is going to be real happy with a course like this with deep rough and U.S. Open style conditions that we pretty much all played well.  The more it's like this, the better it is, I think, for our team, and certainly we won't be as intimidated as them by a setup like this.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT