WGC NEC INVITATIONAL
August 19, 2004
Davis Love III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  We have Davis Love with a 2 under 68.  Why don't we go right into questions.
Q.   Are you surprised to even finish?
DAVIS LOVE III:  No, I figured we would, it would be us or the group behind us, so we're glad to get it in.
Q.   Would you go over your birdies and bogeys?  I know you had a lot.  No.  2 you birdied?
DAVIS LOVE III:  I birdied 2 with a 3 iron in, just through the green, chipped it up and made a little putt.

Birdied 6 from about 15 feet.

Bogeyed 8, right rough and left bunker.

Birdied 9 with a driver and a 9 iron.

10, I missed about a three footer that spun out after spinning it off the green with a wedge.

Then 12, I hit a 7 iron about ten feet.

16, I hit a driver and laid up with a 9 iron out of the rough and then hit a 6 iron to about ten feet.

17, hit a 7 iron over the green and chipped down there about five feet and missed it.
Q.   Talk about how much different the course played today versus practice rounds.
DAVIS LOVE III:  Oh, it was obviously a lot wetter.  What we're used to here; it played long and wet, but the rough was bad as the greens were good.  They weren't quite as fast but they were very good.
Q.   In your eyes what kind of year are you having?
DAVIS LOVE III:  Oh, pretty good.  Not great, but pretty good.
Q.   What's holding you back?
DAVIS LOVE III:  I just haven't been putting four good rounds together.  I've been having three maybe, sometimes two, but not four, and off to bad starts.  Big numbers the first day and bad starts the first day has been holding me back.
Q.   The stop and go nature of the play today, you get delayed three hours, then another hour, then it gets delayed 40 minutes while you were out there
DAVIS LOVE III:  Fortunately we're used to it.  You just do what you can and everybody is doing the same thing basically.  Everybody came out and sat around, so we all did the same thing.  You wait and try to play and do as good as you can with what they give you.  You're going to get a few bad breaks and screwy holes but you've got to get through it.
Q.   So this has been unusual to get off to this kind of a start for you this year?
DAVIS LOVE III:  It was a good start.  I wouldn't say it was a great start, but better than 79 last week (laughter).


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT