BAY HILL INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 21, 2004
Davis Love III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Looking forward to next week, what do you take from this week going forward as defending champion?
DAVIS LOVE III:   Well, I felt better today.  I've been kind of sick all week, but I felt better today.  I'm hitting the ball pretty good.  Just need to make a few putts.  A long way till Thursday but feeling pretty good about it.
Q.  Two back-to-back runner-up finishes, this obviously not as good, how do you feel going forward?
DAVIS LOVE III:   Yeah, I'm feeling good.  I'm happy with my game.  I don't think I have to do anything drastic.  I just have to get out and get focused on playing in a big tournament.  Maybe it's just right, I'm not coming off a big week, I'm excited to play and looking forward to defending.
Q.  With THE PLAYERS Championships, do you take more satisfaction from beating that kind of field?
DAVIS LOVE III:   Yeah, winning THE PLAYERS just means that you've beaten the best field in golf.  I don't know where it ranks against other tournaments, but, yeah, that's the biggest satisfaction.  That, and the golf course, playing good on a golf course that's hard and demanding that you have to be very patient and very precise on.  Get a lot of  -- shoot just one good round there, you feel good about it, but four good ones makes you feel good about the way you're playing.
Q.  Is Bay Hill good preparation with the firm greens?
DAVIS LOVE III:   They weren't as firm as I think they wanted them to be.  But this is a course where you have to hit a lot of fairways.  They have the rough up there, so hitting it straight is going to be important.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
DAVIS LOVE III:   Oh, yeah, we're there.  Once you get past two, I think you're there and we passed that last year.  Yeah, they don't have any room here.  There's a lot of places that don't have any room to do anything.

You look for a nice park nearby.  Sometimes they have an off-site parking lot or something like Augusta, some of them, the people that have been doing it a long time, they come to watch the golf tournament and have placed to stay.
Q.  Have you felt okay with the security?
DAVIS LOVE III:   Oh, yeah, it's great.  You don't have to be on-site to feel secure.  Especially if you're in a group of them where there's a park, it's usually pretty secure.

I'm on the board now starting next year, so we are going to work on helping the tournaments with that situation, because as it continues to grow, it's going to obviously become a big problem.
Q.  You've never had to go to a Wal-Mart parking lot  -- somebody told us they had to do?
DAVIS LOVE III:  I haven't yet, but supposedly that's a good spot.  (Laughter.)
Q.  You mentioned you were a little stiff, any concerns physically heading in?
DAVIS LOVE III:   No, I felt good today.  I was a little better yesterday than I had been but I feel good.  I'm going to get worked on next week.  So I'll be ready to go.
Q.  How hard is it to repeat at this tournament?
DAVIS LOVE III:   Well, it's hard.  It's a hard tournament to win, period.  It's very hard to win back-to-back but I'm playing good since then.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT