THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
November 8, 2003
Davis Love III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.   The round of the day was Chad.  What do you think about that?

DAVIS LOVE III:  Well, yesterday, everyone was talking about you couldn't run away with it, but I guess Chad wasn't listening.  He's played a great round.  He was right behind us, obviously, all day.  And we saw a lot of the shots and the roars and the big putts.  So he played a heck of a round.  And sure enough, somebody's trying to run away with it.  All we can do is keep playing and try to finish as good as we can tomorrow. 


Q.   You played pretty well. 

DAVIS LOVE III:  Yeah, I played good.  I made a couple bogeys again, got in the rough a few times.  But overall these last two days have been very good.  I just kind of shot myself in the foot on Thursday afternoon.  Those last four holes, being four over is really going to come back to haunt me in the end. 


Q.   (Inaudible.)

DAVIS LOVE III:  We talked about it for six weeks and nothing's really changed.  We said somebody's got to win something big and somebody's got to step forward.  Vijay has played well the last few weeks to get himself right up with -- probably with Tiger, as far as wins and money and stats.  But it will come down to the players.  They will look at the quality of wins, and wins at different times of the year and certainly look at Mike Weir with a Major championship under his belt.  And you can't leave out Jim Furyk.  So I think everybody will gets votes.  It won't be as unbalanced as I've been seeing off of ESPN or off the telecast.  I think it's going to be a very, very close vote. 


Q.   (Inaudible.)

DAVIS LOVE III:  For sure, it is my best year.  When I won the PGA I had a great year.  '92, I had a great year.  But this is consistently my best year.  And I would like to have a shot at it tomorrow, but it doesn't look like -- if he keeps playing like that, he's not going to give anybody a chance.  So I would just like to get another top finish and then go help Jack win the Presidents Cup.


Q.   What's next from here?  What do you want to do for next year?

DAVIS LOVE III:  I want to have two weeks in a row off.  I don't know if I'm going to get it.  I really need to just get physically fit over the winter.  Like I mentioned yesterday, I talked to Tiger some about my year and how I felt this year.  He said, when you're feeling bad is when you really need to work out.  He said you need to not let it get you down at the end of the year.  I learned a lot this year about my game and my fitness and what I need to do to compete.  And I learned that I can compete with the best players for the whole year, not just one week. 



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT