THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
November 7, 2003
Davis Love III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Different day today. 

DAVIS LOVE III:  Yeah, I finished, obviously, better, I started better.  Yesterday I started off with two balls in the rough and finished with three bad drives to the left.  That just killed me because I was hanging in there pretty good other than that.  And I had thrown away a lot of shots.  But I've played probably good enough to be leading, given just a few swings over.  But a much better day, much more patient.  I hit 1-iron a couple times where I had been hitting driver or 3-wood.  And 3-wood a couple times where I had been hitting driver.  And I got it in play.  I wasn't very far down there.  Like 17 I hit a 1-iron off the tee and a 6-iron to the green, but I made a birdie rather than hitting a 3-wood in the lake yesterday and making a double.  So obviously a much better game plan.  I stuck with it.  I hit 3-wood off the last hole and hit a pretty good 6-iron that went over the green, but at least I'm playing from the fairway a little more.  I think I got a little bit aggressive and a little bit careless yesterday on a golf course that you just can't miss fairways on. 


Q.  Any theories as to why it's so closely bunched, other than just fewer guys to take off and run off and hide?

DAVIS LOVE III:  I think the golf course is -- there's some easy holes, the par-5s aren't that hard.  And then there's a lot of hard holes that guys kind of all shoot the same score.  Guys that are playing good are going to be 2 - 3 - 4-under par and the guys that aren't are going the other way.  It's just the kind of a golf course where you're either really playing good or you're not playing good at all.  Because you're not going to get away with much if you're missing fairways and missing greens. 


Q.  You had back to back top-10s coming in.  Do you feel like you're playing well enough to be in the mix on the back nine on Sunday?

DAVIS LOVE III:  Yeah, I am.  Again I've got to hit fairways.  That's what killed me really my last three or four tournaments is not hitting enough fairways.  Then when I'm a little bit off with my swing, I think that's because it's the end of the year and I'm getting tired and I'm not feeling as good as I was middle of the year.  And I'm guessing a little bit which way it's going to go, rather than standing up there and ripping it.  As I said, I did a better job today, hopefully even better tomorrow, and just keep the ball in play. 



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT