WGC NEC INVITATIONAL
August 24, 2003
Davis Love III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.
Davis, an up-and-down round for you.  What was it like out there today? 
 

DAVIS LOVE III:  Well, they're trying their best to kill the golf course.  The fairways are hard as a rock and the greens are brown.  It was very tough.  Darren obviously played very, very well to shoot the score he did.


Q.  You had a 416-yard drive on the 16th hole?


DAVIS LOVE III:  Well, I don't think it's anything special.  They haven't watered the fairway all week and if you get rolling down a hill it doesn't stop until it gets to the bottom.  It just shows how firm the fairways are.  I had 100 yards to 9.  It's that firm that if you get it rolling down the fairway it just won't stop.


Q.  The conditions were really tough?


DAVIS LOVE III:  Yeah, the fairways are hard as a rock and the greens are brown.  You know, I don't know if they think this is in good condition, but I think they made it hard, that's for sure.  It's very firm, very fast.


Q.  How difficult is 16 for some of the players to come in just going into that green?


DAVIS LOVE III:  With any club it's hard to hit a pitch shot or a 60-degree wedge or a 9-iron.  It's just almost impossible to hit the green.  I just don't know why they would want them that firm.


Q.  Does 14 under seem like an unbelievable score?


DAVIS LOVE III:  Yeah, it's an incredibly good score. 

He must have driven the ball very, very well and obviously he said he putted -- I talked to him a couple times and he said he's putting very well.  If you're doing that like I did at International, if you get on a roll, anything is possible, I guess.


Q.  (Inaudible). 


DAVIS LOVE III:
Well, I think any time he gets near the lead he plays very, very well.  You know, he did well in the Match Play, obviously, he's a good match play player.  When he's on his game he's one of the best players out here.  Sometimes he tries a little bit too hard.  We've talked about it.  He just pushes a little bit too hard sometimes.  Instead of letting it happen, he's trying to make it happen.


Q.  (Inaudible)?

DAVIS LOVE III:  I had 227 to the front and I hit a 3-iron.


Q.  Did the wait affect you at all?


DAVIS LOVE III:  No.  Like I said, you can't hit that green with a sand wedge so you're not going to knock it on the green with a 3-iron.  I was just trying to hit it somewhere over the green where I could get it up-and-down.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT