BOB HOPE CHRYSLER CLASSIC
January 30, 2003
Davis Love III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  64 in the second round, you're 13-under par.  You're in great position after two rounds, especially for your first event of the year.
DAVIS LOVE III:   Yeah, there is a long way to go.  It's nice that there are no signs or leaderboards on the courses I'm playing, because you really don't want to pay any attention.  You just want to keep playing and try to birdie every hole.  That's really all you can do.  You know it's going to be an extremely low score and you've just got to be patient with it.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Being your first event of the year, what expectations did you have coming out here? 
DAVIS LOVE III:   I didn't play the first couple because I really wasn't ready to play. 
My expectations for this year are high and just trying to come out healthy and excited and ready to play each week.  I knew I wasn't quite ready and now I feel like I'm ready.  I've been working; I wouldn't say I've been working extremely hard, but I've been working at some things I need to work on and trying to get physically fit.  I'm feeling great and I'm excited about it.
I'm happy that I'm shooting a low score, but you're supposed to shoot low scores on these courses.

Q.  You're obviously pretty rusty.  What have you been working on in your game, and how about your health?
DAVIS LOVE III:   Health is great  -- knock on wood  -- that I'm feeling really good. 
Not hitting golf balls and also not playing a lot of golf  -- you know, I've been hitting a lot of wedge shots and been working on my distance control with my short shots, trying to hone in a little bit on being able to hit it close and have a lot of opportunities for birdies.  And I can work on that with a wedge and a pitching wedge and a 9-iron up to like a 7-iron without really beating up my body.  I think I need to do more of that.  Those are the shots where I need to score, and obviously I've been working hard on putting. 
If I can do that, I don't feel that I get the wear and tear.  I've really played six competitive rounds since THE TOUR Championship.  It was a big trip to Hawaii and Tiger's tournament is a real golf tournament, with the Pro-Am and everything, a practice round.  I played two tournaments, but I didn't play a whole lot, and I think the rest did me a lot of good. 

Q.  Last year, this was Phil's first tournament and he came out and won at 30-under and he said this was really a good place for him to start the season because he liked the courses and the weather, was that part of the decision to start here?
DAVIS LOVE III:   It could go either way.  It's such low scores, it's hard to start out knowing that you have to shoot a low score to win.  But it's nice that you know the courses are in great condition.  You have great greens.  Hardly ever do you have much wind. 
So you can pretty much find out how you're playing real quick.  You don't have to deal with  -- if Pebble was your first event, you could get there and play pretty good and it would be wet, playing long, hard to get loose and you can't really find out how you're playing. 
So I like it here or in Phoenix where last week it was perfect.  Usually every time I play Phoenix, it's cold for some reason.  But when you get a nice, calm, warm week to start off, it makes you feel a lot better.
I didn't get in  -- usually I'm at Kapalua starting off and that's a great way to start, but unfortunately I didn't get to do that.  Hopefully next year.  It can't get any better than this.  It's dead calm and 80 degrees every day. 

Q.  Pat Perez shot 61 today at Bermuda.  We've had a couple of 62s already and there has been some talk about Ernie going 31 at the Mercedes.  Is there a sense that we are going to see more scores like that on a regular basis this year? 
DAVIS LOVE III:   Well, I don't know.  I've been just a fan for the first few weeks, and Kapalua had the best greens they have ever had and they had no wind.  Phoenix had the best weather they have had in a long time and no wind. 
So, there's a lot of factors.  Yeah, guys are hitting it a long way and playing a big power game now.  But, the greens are perfect every week.  I remember when Phoenix greens were not good; now they are perfect.  I remember when these greens, you would go to each course and you would have different greens to putt on each day.  Now they are all perfect. 
Those greens at La Quinta today, if you miss a putt, there's no excuse; it was your fault.  It really wasn't that long ago where we couldn't wait to get to the bentgrass greens at Atlanta or somewhere where we could get some smooth greens and now we have them every week.  We dreaded Florida with the grainy greens and now they are perfect. 
I think course conditioning, if it's as somebody said the other day, doesn't matter if it's deep rough or not.  If it's calm and the greens are good, we are going to shoot low scores.  It doesn't really seem to matter how long the course is, either.  Kapalua is an awful long golf course with no wind and it plays really long. 
I think you're going to see that.  You're going to see guys in the low 60s unless conditions keep them from it.  And as a lot of players have been saying, firmer greens are really the answer, and if they are soft, we're going to shoot right at them.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  If we can go over your score card quickly.  You started on the front side with a birdie on 1.
DAVIS LOVE III:   Driver and about a 75-yard sand wedge to about four feet. 
5 is a driver and a 4-iron to the front of the green and a nice, long 60-foot putt up there about three feet for a long 2-putt. 
Next hole, driver and a 4-iron in the front bunker and a nice bunker shot to about two inches. 
The par  3, a 7-iron to about eight feet. 
And then 8, 1-iron off the tee and a pitching wedge to about ten feet. 
Then 11, driver and a 1-iron in the right bunker, and didn't hit a real good bunker shot, but I made about a 20-foot putt for birdie. 
15, I hit a 4-iron, rolled just into the fringe and putted down about two and a half feet by the hole and I missed that. 
Then the last three, I hit a 1-iron and a 6-iron to about six feet at 16. 
Driver and a pitching wedge to about 10 or 11 feet at 17. 
Then a 3-iron off the tee and an 8-iron to about eight or nine feet at the last. 

Q.  Last year at Pebble, Pat Perez had kind of a meltdown.  Do you recall any time earlier in your career where you had kind of a meltdown and let your temper get the best of you when you were playing with a chance to win? 
DAVIS LOVE III:   You want it by year or by event?  (Laughter.)
No, I've had a lot of them.  Not really temper, but just let it get away from me quite a few times.  There was a lot of tournaments that, well  -- not last year, the year before at Riviera.  I was playing great, I was winning the West Coast Swing bonus and had won at Pebble and played a couple other weeks, and all I had to do was shoot about even par on a cold rainy day.  I just kept hitting  -- felt like I was just going to hit good shots, but just kept hitting bad shot after bad shot and just squeezing it. 
I ended up shooting 74 or something like that or a couple over and not winning, missing a playoff by a couple.  You know, I ended up luckily still winning the West Coast bonus, but very easily, I think two of those guys in the playoff, if they had won, they might have won the West Coast Swing. 
It happens.  Sometimes you're leading and you feel like you should win, and that's a bad place to be.  You know, if you hit a bad shot, it becomes a mental game and you start protecting.  Whereas, if you're two behind or one behind and you're chasing, you seem to have a more focused attitude.  And that's the challenge is when you do get ahead, to not let up, to keep  -- as Tom Kite told me in my first Ryder Cup, keep trying to win every hole, keep trying to birdie every hole because you never know what's going to happen.  You don't want to start changing your game plan. 
I think that's what happens is we start protecting or doing something different than what got us in the lead or around the lead when you get close to it.  The guys that won a bunch, nothing phases them.  They just keep right on going.  They don't know that .  They don't recognize that they are in the lead or they can block it out.
That's why I said, today, the lack of scoreboards is nice.  If you could go out there with no sign boy and no scoreboards and nobody clapping and you never knew where you stood, a lot of guys would do better because you can block it out.
That's another reason why we are seeing so many low scores.  Guys like Bob Rotella and Dick Coop, all of these guys that are working with players, they are teaching them ways to block that out.  It used to be a handful of guys that worked with a Bob Rotella, and now, you have to book your slot when he's out on TOUR because everybody wants him. 
I think we are learning that when you get in position, a change in your game plan is dangerous and you need to just stick with what's working, and sometimes that's hard to do when it's going the opposite way. 

Q.  There's been more talk recently about women having some ambitions to play in PGA events.  Wonder what your feeling is:  Do you think there are women who could be competitive in certain events and maybe in the foreseeable future, do you see someone competing week-in and week-out on the PGA? 
DAVIS LOVE III:   Well, I'll just stick to talking about my game.  That's a deep subject. 
I know Annika, the way she plays, you know, could compete.  But the length of our golf courses is just so extreme.
I think from a couple hundred yards in, there's no comparison.  We're all pretty equal, but I think it's just the length.  You see it out here.  The length kills a lot of guys out here.  There's guys that don't hit it as far that can only play well on certain type of golf courses.
And I think if you put Annika at Colonial, yeah, she would do real well.  You put her at Bethpage; she wouldn't do too well.  That's just the fact of the matter is that the Laura Davies and a few of them that do hit it, Beth Daniels, that hit it long enough, are still average out here, and it's tough to compete.  You see guys out here, it's tough to compete length-wise.  I think length would be the only factor.  But that's a very deep subject. 
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Thank you, Davis.



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT