MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2002
Davis Love III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Can you talk about the second shot on 18, it didn't look like you had much of a look at anything and you knocked it on the green.  Can you talk strategy and what you were doing?

DAVIS LOVE III:   Well, I had to hit it low, anyway because it was such a long shot.  I just had to curve it a little bit, and I discussed with my caddie where the pin was in relation to that right bunker, and I said, "Is the right bunker bad?"  And he said, "Yeah, it's not good."  So we just planned on trying to hook it, and if anything, miss it left of the green where we could get it up-and-down or in the front bunker.

So, just trying to hit a high draw, and got fortunate that I got enough of the ball that it carried the bunker.  I didn't get much reaction out of the gallery; I thought it was a hell of a shot, to get it on the green, especially on the correct level.  I thought it had run off the side and was up in the edge of the gallery the way they reacted.  But I was pleased to see it on the green. 

I got away with a couple, 17, 18, got away with them.  Actually hit the hole at 17 with a birdie putt and it was a little too hard.  And hit a real good putt at 18 that almost scraped in.  So I was fortunate I didn't have par putts there.
Q.  Ever play a bogey-free round here before? 

DAVIS LOVE III:   I don't know.  I would bet no, but I'm not positive.
Q.  Could you talk about the way you recovered after hitting the ball into the woods on 13, and was there any sense of deja vu there from '99 when you hit the ball down there?

DAVIS LOVE III:   Oh, I've hit it down there a bunch.  That's not unheard of. 

I finally hit a bad shot and got a good break.  I wouldn't say I got great breaks on my other bad drives, but I got a good break there, and just played safe, chipped it out and got it on the green.  That's what the difference, when I've hit a bad shot recently, it's gotten a bad break and then I've compounded it, several times, turned them into big numbers.  I was just pleased with that par, as any par of the day.
Q.  Physically, how are you, and is the disk problems in the neck and the back related or the same? 

DAVIS LOVE III:   I guess they are related.  They are a little bit apart, but I guess when you get bad disks in your back or a bad back, it can spread around.  Just from all of the twisting and turning.

A lot of people have been helping me get better in the last year and I'm as healthy as I've been in a long time.  I said, maybe I ought to go back to being hurt, because I was playing pretty good last year being hurt.  But I've been able to practice a lot more this year.  Been able to play the tournaments I wanted to play.  I haven't really had any problems so far this year.  (Knocking on wood).
Q.  You come in off of everybody's radar screen after what's happened the last four or five weeks, missed the cuts, but I heard you outside saying you've been playing pretty well.  Can you talk about how that is for you, to not have a lot of attention on you going into here after so much success? 

DAVIS LOVE III:   I guess coming up 16, I was saying to my caddie, that they missed out on a lot of guys this week, didn't they?  He said, "Yeah, several guys, saying you included."  Garcia had a whole lot of talk, and that's fine.  But you can't cover everybody.  You can't pick everybody as a favorite. 

You know, this is a place that we all prepare for, we are all ready for and it doesn't matter if it's Cabrera, Love, or Nick Price or anybody.  We are all ready for this week.  As I said outside, I'm not shocked at the way I played today.  I'm shocked at the way I've played the last four weeks, because I've really been swinging much better.
Q.  The first round leader hasn't won here since 1984, and you've been a first round leader before.  Can you talk about how difficult it is to maintain that? 

DAVIS LOVE III:   Well, I don't pay much attention to stats like that.  We'd quit playing if we did.  But it's better to be the first round leader than not to be, I would think.
Q.  Today there are a lot of numbers in the red.  Is today the day to get it, because it's probably not giving up a lot the whole next three days?

DAVIS LOVE III:   It's nice to catch it on a calm day and a damp day.  With the weather predictions of at least a chance for rain, I think that keeps it more humid and soft, so I don't know if they will get it back to what they had Sunday and Monday, which was may be good for all of us that they don't get it back to that.

I know that the pace of the greens will pick up and the fine edge will pick up.  It will get tougher, but they may not get it quite as dry as they want it.
Q.  The leaderboard looks typical for a Masters.  Is all of the talk of the changes kind of overrated? 

DAVIS LOVE III:   Well, it's fun to talk about because Augusta National is always about, you know, being on the fine cutting edge of what makes their tournament better, and it's been fun to talk about.  It's fun for players who are interested in the design side of it to see what they did, what Tom Fazio did, and he did a wonderful job with it.  So, no, I don't think it's overrated.  To put it simply, it's longer.  Atlanta Athletic Club was longer and everybody came in and swung hard and the long hitters played well, as they normally do on a long golf course .

Yeah, the hype about it is, the longer it gets, the longer we are going to try to hit it.  And the longer players are going to do better.  And that's just the way it's going.  If you want to combat the length, go play Merion, because everybody will be teeing it off with an iron and hitting it in the same place .

Now we are searching for length and we are going to find more length to keep up.  And you're going to hit it in the trees like I did a couple of times today.  The holes are prettier than they were before.  They set up better off the tee than they did before.  It's hard, I've done it on a couple of courses, it's hard to lengthen golf courses without messing them up.  The holes have all gotten to be a better golf hole after lengthening, and that's quite a statement or testament to Augusta National and to Tom Fazio, that they were careful enough. 

Even 2, they changed what, two years ago?  It's just, now that we are used to it, it's great.  It's perfect.  If you smash one down the middle, you can get on in two.  If you don't, you're not going to get on in two.  Everything they have done is just, you know, it fits.  It's not a natural.  It's not tricky.  It's just a little bit longer. 
Q.  You mentioned compounding mistakes, hitting bad shots and compounding mistakes.  Has it been just one or two holes that have been blowing you up, pretty much the common theme throughout the early part of the year? 

DAVIS LOVE III:   No, just general goofy stuff.  Made a 9 at Doral.  Kept hitting  -- trying to hit it over the lake on one hole.  Last week, made a double with a 60-degree wedge into a par 4 and then made a triple on a par 5.  Instead of making a double on a par 4 and coming back and driving it in the fairway and making a four, I made a, whatever, an 8. 

So those things kill you.  Now, I did play  --  like I said, made 11 birdies, but you don't get credit for that if you make four "Others".  That's the only difference in my game.  So I just haven't taken a bad shot very well, and I promised myself this week that no matter where I hit it I was going to try to hit the next one better and be patient with myself and enjoy playing the game.  I don't think I've enjoyed playing.  I've been pushing too hard and trying  -- trying to make things happen and trying to play myself into Augusta, rather than just enjoying playing.  I've enjoyed my practice rounds this week.  I enjoyed playing with Nick and Brad today.  I don't think I could have gotten a better pairing to start off with a good attitude.
LARRY PUGH:   Davis  --
Q.  Can you go through your birdies. 

DAVIS LOVE III:   2, driver and a 3-iron, pin-high, right, probably 20 yards right.  Pitched up four feet. 

3, a driver and had 65 yards to the hole and pitched it up there about five feet.

Then 9, I pulled my drive, it was in the left intermediate cut.  Hit a 7-iron, kind of a little bit of a draw, to about four feet. 

Then 10, hit a beautiful 6-iron.  Got just over the green, hit a little chip-and-run back down onto the green and had a two-footer for par.

Then 13, got that one, drop-kicked it off the tee and chipped it out with a 7-iron, hit it on with a 7-iron and 2-putted.

14, driver, 6-iron to about six inches.

15, driver, 6-iron to about 12 feet, 2-putted.

17, hit it in the right trees, 9-iron over the trees on the green, and then 18. 
LARRY PUGH:   Thank you. 

DAVIS LOVE III:   Thank you. 







End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT