ADVIL WESTERN OPEN
July 8, 2001
Davis Love III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DAVIS LOVE III:  Well, obviously not what I wanted.  I probably would have taken 66 when we started, but once we got into the round, you could tell that Scott was putting very well.  He was playing with a lot of confidence and that I was going to have to, you know, play great to beat him.  I played pretty good.  I just didn't play great.  He played extremely well, and when he hit that shot out of the left rough at 4 and knocked it up on the green and made the putt I said I want this guy on the Ryder Cup team with me because I can tell, he is not afraid of anything and he is in this for the long haul.   So I knew then it was going to be a long day.  And we traded back and forth a lot, and it just happened that I was the one that hit the bad shots coming in.  Really he only hit a few bad shots all day, and he hit two bad ones coming in and I hit three.  That's just the way it turned out. 

Q.  On 18 what was your lie like on your second shot, yardage and club what  --

DAVIS LOVE III: I had like 192 to the front.  I had a good pretty good lie, a flier lie obviously, but a pretty good lie, a decent look at the pin.  I just had to hit a real high shot and it's -- I caught a little bit more of a flier swinging that high; flew it back in the back bunker.  But I think if I can hit a good bunker shot, put the pressure back on him and mine got away from me a little bit and gave him an opening and he hit a great one.

Q.  (Inaudible)?

DAVIS LOVE III: It was just like the one I had yesterday just didn't give it quite enough speed.  Had a good line on it and for some reason, obviously I didn't need the one coming back, but for some reason, I didn't hit it hard enough.  I felt good over it and I felt like when I hit it was pretty good but just didn't have quite enough speed.

Q.  What happened with the drive at 18?  And it seemed - correct me if I am wrong  - that you may have stood over the tee a little longer than usual?

DAVIS LOVE III: I was just being a good target and trying to make a good swing.  I was driving the ball you know, pretty good all day.  I don't know what happened, just jumped at it a little bit and tried to maybe get a little more out of it.  I don't know.  That was definitely my worst swing of the day.  The one on 16 I was just trying to smash it with a 7-iron, that happens every once in a while.  But I probably just got a little quick coming in.

Q.  At what point did it become clear to you that it was going to be a two-man shoot-out?

DAVIS LOVE III: I guess after I birdied the first two and he birdied 2, we kind of started moving away from everybody.  We had a little cush there already, started out making birdies.

Q.  Have you ever been in a final round like this with two guys 64, 66, going straight birdie after birdie making a lot of great shots like that?

DAVIS LOVE III: Maybe not in the same group, probably not. 

Q.  Is there a feeling that each guy trying to top each other constantly  -- did you get to feed off of each other?

DAVIS LOVE III: I didn't like having to make the putts  -- he'd make a long putt and I'd have to make one after him.  That wasn't much fun.  But I just knew I had to try to birdie every hole and when he made that putt at 12 I was like "he is just not going to miss," so, you know, he made a nice save at 9.  He made a nice birdie at 10.  Nice save at 11.  Great putt at 12.  I said he doesn't think he can miss, so I so I knew I had to birdie everyone.  I just didn't do it.  If I hit the ball on the green at 16 rather than down the hill, obviously it is a different story, so that's the one that where I kind of let it get away.

Q.  Going after it too hard on 16?

DAVIS LOVE III: I didn't think I can get 7 all the way back there.  I was just trying to hit a big high cut, just smash it back there and off that side of a lie, sometimes you just don't get it.  And I just didn't catch it.  I caught it a little fat and left.  Just a bad swing.

Q.  Talk yesterday about getting cute at times in a   --

DAVIS LOVE III: That wasn't cute.  I wish I had hit easy 6 in there.

Q.  (Inaudible) a lead going into the last round, is it something that you have to think about now or is it just didn't work -- (inaudible)
?
 DAVIS LOVE III: You shoot 66 on Sunday on this golf course you don't expect to lose.  I think it's awfully hard to win out here.  I felt like I played pretty good today, just not obviously as good as Scott.  But you know, I have had a lot of chances and that's nice. 

Q.  Haven't had a lot of great success at Lytham, what do you do now that will translate now on that golf course?

DAVIS LOVE III: I don't know, nothing in particular.  I guess everything.  Short putts, putting good, you know, I only made maybe three or four long putts but on short putts, I am putting pretty well, I am driving it, discount 18, I am driving it pretty good.

Q.  Will you remember this as a victory in the sense that your comeback is there and you are playing great golf, or how much will this -- is this going to bother you, the ending today?

DAVIS LOVE III: Well, it won't bother me a whole lot.  I did a lot of good things.  I just didn't, as I said I didn't play a perfect round like Scott did.  Obviously, I want to win and I am not going to be happy about it, but, you know, I am just -- I am trying to build up to the Open and just like everybody else, I would have obviously gone in a little happier if I had won here, but I am pretty happy with the state of my game, given that this is my third tournament since April, so.....

Q.  It's an old saying beware of the ailing golfer.  Your neck has been a hot topic all week; Hoch's left hand has been also.  You guys shoot 20-something under.  Do you buy into that?

DAVIS LOVE III: I think both of us are pretty healed.  Obviously he needs-he is doing the same thing I am doing in practicing over practicing, he is going to take a day or two off before he plays next week and he is just not pounding a whole lot of balls, so maybe the secret is being rested and relax.

Q.  And not practicing?

DAVIS LOVE III: Yeah.  I snuck out there last night and putted so I broke the string.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT