GTE BYRON NELSON GOLF CLASSIC
May 12, 2000
Davis Love III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DAVIS LOVE III: Well, the wind laid down after our first, I guess, ten holes. Started
to lay down and made scoring a little bit easier over on that side. And without seeing the
scoreboard, I don't really know what's been going on, but it got a little bit easier over
there. It got hot as soon as the wind quit. So we've been asking for the wind to quit; now
I wish it would start again, because you can feel the heat. But other than the first two
holes, I played very, very well. I 3-putted the 1st hole from the fringe and hit a bad
shot at the 2nd hole. And after that I hit the ball very, very well. I let a couple
opportunities get away from me on 11 and 12, but other than that, I played great. Nine
birdies is an awful lot, on any golf course, and I was very happy with the way I played,
the consistency that I had today.

Q. It would be an understatement that the flat stick was working well?

DAVIS LOVE III: I rolled it pretty good, but I didn't have a whole lot of hard putts. I
had a lot of short ones, a 2-putt for birdie. Hit some in there pretty close. I didn't
make any long putts like I did yesterday, but I didn't miss but maybe two inside of 10
feet, and that's where you score. The one I missed at the 1st hole, I left my first putt
about six feet short and missed it. And then on 12, I hit it in there about five or six
feet and missed it. And other than that, I made them all within 10 feet. It wasn't
spectacular, but I didn't miss any and that's what gets you a low score.

Q. This is your best round here, back-to-back rounds here, ever? 

DAVIS LOVE III: It's about time. These courses, you know, I come here every year -- or
every year that I've played here, I'm thinking I should do better than I have, and it's
nice to put two good rounds together. 1, a driver and 7-iron in the back fringe, about 35
feet away, and I just left it six feet short and missed it. 2, hit an 8-iron long and left
in the back bunker. Blasted out about 20 feet and missed that. And then a driver, 9-iron,
four feet. Then a driver and a 7-iron about 10 feet. 6, is a par 4, a driver and then a
pitch shot over the bunker to about 10 feet and made that. And then a driver and a sand
wedge from about 80 yards to about five feet. And then 10, driver and pitching wedge to
about six feet. 14, 3-iron off the tee, 9-iron about six feet. And then 15, a driver and a
pitching wedge from about 95 yards to about four feet. And 16, driver and a 4-iron, 30
feet behind the hole and 2-putted. And then 18, a 3-wood off the tee and a 9-iron to about
six feet in.

Q. Davis, do you have a feeling this is the week where you're going to get over the
hump? 

DAVIS LOVE III: I have a feeling that if I keep doing what I'm doing, yeah, I can -- I
feel better than I have in a while, and I'm more comfortable with my swing. You know,
hopefully the weather will cooperate and get a couple good days to play and keep the rain
away, because I really feel on top of it. You know, you never know. I felt on top of it
before, but I feel pretty good about it right now.

Q. How often do you videotape your swing? 

DAVIS LOVE III: Every time I practice. When I'm home, my teacher videos my swing, Jack
Lumpkin. He's a camera addict. He doesn't always show it to me, but we look at a few
swings every lesson I take at home, which is, you know, like last week, two or three
times. And when I'm out on the road, when I'm playing and he's with me, he videos a little
bit, but we try not to tinker too much. If I was way off, he would video it and show me,
but I would say every practice session when I'm home.

Q. And does he keep a catalog of them so you can go back and look at them?

DAVIS LOVE III: He records them on little tapes, and then he makes me a big tape of
everything he does so I can take it home and watch it. And then he has, you know, master
copies that he saves so he can go back and say, you know what, you were hitting it great
at Hilton Head and we changed something before you went to Dallas and let's see what the
difference was. You know, you played good when we did this and you played good when we did
this, and you played bad when we did this. He keeps good track of it. That's how those
guys learn, studying that stuff. And I just want to see -- show me the good and show me
the bad, and I don't want to waste a whole lot of time looking at it. I get into going:
"Now, wait a minute shouldn't I try to do this, too, because that should be
prettier." No, no, no, don't worry about that, just get those two or three things
done. I learned a long time ago that I'll pick at it until, you know, until I tear it
down, if you leave me to my own devices. So, I just look for two or three things and make
sure we're doing that. But it's fun to watch. Fun to compare. I watched swings of Hogan
the other day, Monday with him, trying to work on getting through the ball a little bit,
you know, more fully, and I haven't watched somebody else's swing in a long time. And that
was fun to watch Hogan swing and try to, you know, go out and see if I can get through the
ball as good as he can. 

Q. Has that transferred over this week, watching Hogan swing? 

DAVIS LOVE III: Well, Jack Lumpkin was working on me getting through the ball more
completely, and he said, "Well, let me show you something." And he hardly ever
tries to bore me with other stuff. He says, "But watch this video of Hogan I just got
last week. Look how cranked he is all the way through every shot." He says,
"Sometimes you just kind of give it the halfway. You turn through, but you don't
really turn through." So it was good to see something to compare to. 

Q. Is that one thing you were particularly working on this week? 

DAVIS LOVE III: If there's one thing I'm working on is just going ahead and hitting it
and not -- you know, not trying to get cute and not trying to, you know, curve it too
much. Just going and hitting right at it and making a full swing at it. Especially off the
tee in long shots, I've been hooking a few at wrong times, trying to just pretty a shot in
there rather than hit one hard, and that's what I've been working on. 

Q. (Inaudible)?

DAVIS LOVE III: You know, I think I got four on the front, too, but I think if any time
you get the ball in the fairway and you get wedge in your hand a lot, and you get a par 5
that you can get to in two, it makes it a little bit easier. I did hit a 5-iron close and
missed that, but, you know, really, I was right at it all day whether the wind was blowing
or not. There's maybe only two or three shots where it was more than a club wind all day.
So it never was anywhere near yesterday. 

Q. After a little dry spell, do you find yourself you have to reign yourself in and
keep telling yourself, you know, you can't win it with one swing; you've just got to be
patient and that sort of thing? 

DAVIS LOVE III: You know, you get a lot of questions on Thursday afternoon and Friday
afternoon. You know what, I'm not going to win tomorrow; so we're going to come right back
here hopefully and talk about it again. It ain't going to happen until Sunday afternoon.
So, I've been around long enough to understand that. And I promised myself when I came
here this week, I wasn't going to think about it all weekend. You know, do I want to win?
Yeah, that's why I committed to play here. But am I going to think about it tonight? No.
I'm going to go eat some of Mrs. Leonard's cooking, and, you know, relax and come back
tomorrow and try to do the same thing I was doing today, and that's try not to think about
winning, just play. 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT