GREATER GREENSBORO CHRYSLER CLASSIC
April 22, 2000
Davis Love III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Davis, do you think you're back in it?

DAVIS LOVE III:  I wouldn't -- it's hard to say.  It depends on what happens.  I'm back into the race maybe for second.  But if Hal plays well today, and he's 13 -, 14 -, 15-under, I wouldn't think I have a chance.  But I'm getting better score-wise every day.  So that's nice to see.


Q.  Difficult conditions out there with the wind today or not?

DAVIS LOVE III:  Yeah, it was hard.  It wasn't that much harder maybe than yesterday afternoon, but the pins were probably a little tougher is probably the difference.  They start putting them in the corners of these greens, the ball is kicking away from the hole, it's hard to get the ball close.  You're hitting sand wedges in there and pitching wedges in there wondering if you can get it close, and it's very difficult when they get them in the wings of the greens.


Q.  Hal is not a guy you expect to collapse, is he?  He's a guy you expect maybe to even pull away more at the end.

DAVIS LOVE III:  Yeah, I would expect him to.  It looks like he had one bad hole and then came back and birdied two in a row.  When he's playing well, he's hard to beat.  I figured I needed to get in at least double digits today to have a chance.


Q.  What do you think you have to do tomorrow?

DAVIS LOVE III:  Well, it all depends on Hal, I guess, maybe.  I have to shoot a low score, no matter what, though. 


Q.  After THE PLAYERS Championship with what Hal did to Tiger, did the players look at Hal differently?

DAVIS LOVE III:  I think they have, since he started back playing good.  THE TOUR Championship really was an important tournament for him, where he held off Vijay and a couple of other guys.  And the way he played the Ryder Cup was just incredible.  He was a leader, and he won more points, I think, than anybody.  And he was the most solid guy that whole week.  I think everybody has really realized he's back on top of his game.  We all knew he was a great ball striker, but now that he's putting again, he's a tough guy to beat. 


Q.  Were you surprised to hear he 4-putted that double bogey?

DAVIS LOVE III:  Nothing surprises me on these greens.


Q.  (Inaudible.)

DAVIS LOVE III:  I'd say probably four or five, which doesn't look like it's going to happen. 


Q.  Is there another 62 out there? 

DAVIS LOVE III:  I don't think the way these greens are (inaudible).  Hal made 11 birdies, and still it's hard not to make a mistake, when you're playing great, because the greens -- in the corners, they're all running away from you.  If it was really, really soft, maybe.  But with this deeper rough, when I shot that score, the roughs weren't as deep.  The greens were soft, and they were big (inaudible.)  I think it was a lot easier.  If it was easy then -- it wasn't easy, but it was easier, probably, to shoot that kind of score.


Q.  A different course?

DAVIS LOVE III:  Yeah, a different course.


Q.  What is your prevailing memory about that final round?

DAVIS LOVE III:  Well, I kept hitting the ball real close to the hole.  If I got in trouble, I chipped in or got up-and-down.  My long irons weren't close to the hole, like on 8; or the tougher holes, I hit the ball real close to the hole and made birdies.  That's what's killing me this week.  I've hit irons or 4-woods into every par-5 it seems like every day, and I'm not making any birdies or eagles, and that's what's holding me back.


Q.  Do you consider that your best round, career-wise?

DAVIS LOVE III:  I would think so in those conditions on this type of course, this big a course.  I shot 68 in Hawaii, and a couple of the other ones, but I would say condition-wise and the length of the golf course, this is probably the best round  -- that was probably the best round. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT