THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY SOUTHERN COMPANY
October 27, 1999
Davis Love III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DAVIS LOVE III: Well, I know Lee helped me get out of a little small release just
earlier in the week, just because I felt like that given my publicized family incident,
similar to the Stewart family, that there would be a lot of questions, and people want to
make comparisons and understand how that feels. It is very, very hard. I can't say how
Tracey Stewart feels or Aaron or Chelsea. Everybody handles things differently, but I
think our whole family and anybody that has lost a loved one or relative or a friend in
something like, any type of accident, knows a little bit how they are feeling. But I think
my main memory and my main concern is of the children. I lost a father, and I also lost
one of my best friends and another very close friend in the same accident. So I know that
not only is Tracey dealing with her own loss, but also the loss of friends. It is very,
very difficult to understand all those emotions. So I think the comparisons are not fair.
I mean, Payne Stewart was a leader on the TOUR, a leader to the players, and a great
example of a father. And I think that is the biggest thing that that I am going to watch
out for over the next few years is how we as a Tour, and us as Payne Stewart's friends,
can help those children remember their father well and get through what is a very tough
time. Everybody says children are very resilient. I have got five young friends at home
that they have dealt very well with their father's death in a similar situation, but they
still miss him and they still missed out. And hopefully we can help Aaron and Chelsea
understand eventually the memories of their father will be fun ,and he will still live on,
definitely in golf, but he will live on as a great father. I think that is where the
hardest thing, for me to come to deal with. The golf part of it is important to the Golf
World, but for us as friends, it comes first to Tracey and the children.

Q. What memories are fresh in your mind of Payne? What are some of the good things that
you remember about him?

DAVIS LOVE III: Well, the golf memories are definitely -- there is a lot of them there.
But he played a lot of great golf, obviously, and people have been discussing that all
week. But, you know, I think his passion as a leader on that Ryder Cup team and the part
that he played as a leader, like Hal Sutton and a couple of other guys that really brought
that team together. I think is the biggest memory of how -- how much closer -- you know, I
almost even felt like Payne and Tracey were preparing themselves for Captaincy and were
becoming a little more -- not outspoken; Payne was always outspoken, but becoming more of
a leader figure, I think, in that Ryder Cup than he has in the past. He tried to do that
before, months before the Ryder Cup and backfired on him a little bit. But I know that the
things he was trying to do or trying to position himself as a leader; that is hard to do.
I know I tried a couple of different times to try to force yourself into that role;
sometimes it just doesn't work. But I know that they were looking forward to Captaincy. I
will remember the Ryder Cup probably most vividly. The U.S. Open he played great, but I
wasn't really a part of that. I know Phil, guys that played with him that week and the
guys that got beat by him that week will always treasure those memories. But I think Ryder
Cup, to me, there is a lot of things that happened. I played a match with him; was
mystified why Ben Crenshaw would ever pair me with Payne Stewart. And got out there after
about four, five holes and I said, "Now I know why he paired me with Payne Stewart.
You want to teach me a lesson on how to take my excitement and my passion and my
nervousness and my desire to win and putt it into my game." And I actually thanked
Payne twice that day and Sunday afternoon for what he taught me during that match. I said,
"I am sorry we didn't win that match," but I said, "I learned a lot. It is
going to help me in the future." It did. It helped me on Saturday. It helped me on
Sunday. I will remember the Ryder Cup. We all will remember the Ryder Cup for a lot of
reasons but now I think it will be even more special. I can't really -- Lee will tell you
I really wasn't that committed to coming here until I talked last night to Justin. He
said, "Once you get here, everybody is kind of together. It feels better when you get
here." I was sitting at home thinking, "It doesn't seem right to play
golf." Doesn't seem right to do anything other than to try to do something for the
Stewarts. But at the same time, I am sitting at home saying, "I am not doing anybody
good at home watching the Braves game." So I talked to Ben after I talked to Justin.
When he told me he was driving down to talk with some of the guys on the team, that is no
offense to the other players, but you know, Ben said, "Look, I want to come be with
some of guys talk to them about this, and I am going to come and walk a practice
round." I said, "Well, I will see you in the morning then," because that
really was the right thing to do, I think, for all of us. I think really some people were
questioning, should we play? I questioned should we play golf this week. But I think after
being here for a day, the best thing for the TOUR, to show support is what we are going to
do on Friday. And the fact that if we were a fractioned off into our own homes, sure, we
are with our families, but we are not a part of the TOUR family. I think being here today,
tomorrow, over the weekend, and being able to -- I played with three of my Ryder Cup team
members today and, you know, we talked about it. We were together. That is part of it.
Tracey is covered up with people right now and, in November and December and January and
the years going forward, that is when we need to be able to spend time with her. I think
right now this is the best place for us. And Tim was very smart. I was pushing him not to
play today or tomorrow or -- I said, "Maybe we can play on the weekend." But
they were very smart because we are going to show support out here better than we would
all fractioned off at home.

Q. Some of the talking and the interaction, is it trying to make sense of it, or now
take some time to have a few laughs on certain memories?

DAVIS LOVE III: Well, I think the guys are -- it is good for them to get out and get
back to work and deal -- talk about, you know, if you don't get out and -- I know I found
when I was dreading coming back on TOUR because everybody is going to have to say: We are
sorry and everybody was going to have to talk about it. It is good for us to come out and
run into guys and hug the guys that want to get hugged and cry with the guys that want to
cry. Go ahead and get your grieving process started. I think that is the important thing.
The girls are better. They are not ashamed to get together and cry and talk about it, and
it is good for us to get out here in our atmosphere where we are more comfortable doing
that. It is hard to pick up the phone and talk to Justin in Dallas an Freddie in
California and Mark O'Meara in Florida and talk about this. So it is good for us to be
together Friday. I am going to go tomorrow night, stay with the O'Mearas, and get a little
closer to it. But I think it is good for us all to get together and this week, next week.
It will be hard to just shut everything down for the year, not being willing to and be
able to talk about it. Talk to Phil about the mechanics of it and everybody has to say
whatever it is that makes them feel better. But it certainly is part of the process, and
it is good for us to be together and do it.

Q. Who did you play with today?

DAVIS LOVE III: Justin and Phil and David Duval. David and I just played the back. We
are going to play the front in a little while.

Q. Was it more of just talking to each other and spending time together? Was there much
concentration on what you were doing?

DAVIS LOVE III: We played a little nine-hole match and there was a lot of discussion
about typical things, and then there was a lot of discussion about the situation at hand.
And I think, you know, we got some of that out of the way. And I ran into Tom Lehman on
the putting green, and there is a lot of people who you are going to have to sit down and
talk to about this and make plans for the future for what we want to do as friends. And
everybody has got an idea how this golf tournament should go. Some guys think it should be
played in knickers; some guys say we should do this with the money. A whole lot of things.
I think the main thing is we need to be together and here and in Mississippi and on the
SENIOR TOUR; being together is better than being apart. I think that is what we are all
coming to is, hey, if we are all here together, we can do the right thing. And that was
our discussion today as to, what is the right thing and what can we do and how do we -- so
many people like Melanie, when I walked in this room, she asked me how I was doing. Well,
we need to all get out here and see how each other is doing and realize that we are not
the most -- how we are dealing with it is not important. It is what we can do to make
things right for the families as much as we can and for everybody to have their input.
Some guys don't -- some guys don't realize that there is a lot of focus on Payne Stewart's
family, but there is also, and I have a better understanding of this than a lot of people,
there is five other families involved. Somebody was flying that airplane that had kids,
and somebody hopped on that plane at the last minute that had little children. And that
sometimes gets lost because one person was more famous than the other. But there is a lot
of stuff we can do as players and as friends of all the families to help out down the road
and make sure that we can at least get something more positive going than what is going on
right now.

Q. Davis, have you any idea how many of the 29 players will be going on Friday?

DAVIS LOVE III: I don't know. There is some people, and I am one of them, that don't do
well in situations like that; that try to avoid them. I know I do. Ever since my dad
passed away, I have had a tough time going to funerals or services. I think guys are going
to have to decide that. I know my biggest issue is, you know, once I get to Orlando and
see Tracey and those kids, am I going to want to come back here? I don't know. I think
that some of guys may feel that way. I know that I was pleased when Ben Crenshaw taught me
how to go to Harvey Penick's funeral because I don't think that I could have even gone
back and played. I don't know how they did it. Still a miracle to me that Ben even teed it
up that week much less win the golf tournament. If you want to know divine intervention, I
played with him the week before. Somebody else helped him a lot that week and inspired him
to play well, and hopefully, we will all get that inspiration and come back and be ready
to play. But I think it is going to be very, very difficult to go. I don't think -- there
might be some guys that are smart not to go, you know. I think going with all those people
may be lost, but going and spending some time with the family in November and December
like I said before when things start -- everybody starts to get back to normal might be
even more important. So I am not going to -- if somebody comes to me says: Davis, just
can't do it. I am going to say, "Well, then don't do it." I know I would
understand-- I feel I was compelled to sit at home and wait for the funeral. That was what
I thought was the right thing to do, and wait until it was a good time to go see Tracey,
whether it was today or tomorrow; or that felt like the right thing for me to do, and you
just got to do what feels right. I would be surprised if everybody did go. 

Q. Are there guys on the Ryder Cup team, to the best of your knowledge, is everybody on
the team going?

DAVIS LOVE III: I don't know. 

Q. Do you think there should be -- what do you think in the short-term, if anything,
should be done to commemorate Payne this week, down the road?

DAVIS LOVE III: I know in talking to a couple of people real close to Tracey that that
immediately is one of her shocks and concerns is, you know, will his memory live on. They
can't avoid that. Payne Stewart's memory will live on as a golfer and as a father, and now
a legend that was taken too early. And I think if anything, people are going to realize
more what he did and his game and life and career is going to carry on longer than maybe
it would have if he got hurt and couldn't play anymore. I think this definitely will make
him stand out. We don't have to do anything other than remember him ourselves. Obviously,
dedicating this tournament to him, you don't even have to say it. This event is going to
have some weird things going on this week. It is not going to feel right. It doesn't feel
right to be out grinding on the range; doesn't feel right to, you know, catch yourself
laughing in the fairway. And you say, no, just doesn't feel right. But I don't think we
have to do much. Obviously, down the road, there will be some things that happen. You
know, obviously a lot of money is going to be generated in charity through foundations.
And obviously, the TOUR is going to do things down the road, I don't know what, name
awards after him, you know, whatever it is. But that is -- I don't think that is a problem
at all. I think Tim did a very good job expressing that to the family, that no matter what
happens, his memory will live on as one of the great players and great people. I keep
coming back to -- I want to stress, a great father, is how I will always remember him.

Q. I have often wondered this, and you can probably answer it now better than ever. Is
there more of eternity among PGA champions? Is there sort of like an unwritten thing that
when you talk to each other or you pass each other, that you know you both accomplished
that?

DAVIS LOVE III: Well, I think it is with major winners. You have heard the old thing
from guys like Greg Norman, welcome to the club when somebody wins one. I think you do
feel a little bit of a closer bond with the guys that have won that, partly because you
have accomplished a similar goal in your career and a step up the ladder. But part of it
because you end up being together for more things like past champion dinners or special
events for winners of tournaments and major tournaments, and you are included in a
different group. Much like our bond on the Ryder Cup Team, I think major championship
winners, somehow get thrown together a little bit more. And you are right. You know, I had
a copy made of the PGA, the Wannamaker Trophy. Now it is going to be that much more
special to me. But yeah, I think there is a little bit closer bond. I think we will be
dealing with questions like that all the way up to the U.S. Open. You know, so many things
rush through your mind of what the U.S. Open is going to be like next year. We have got a
long golf, as a sport and as a fraternity; we have got a long way ahead of us dealing with
this. There is a lot of things that are going to come up that are going to remind us and
back to the question before, a lot of things are going to remind us of Payne Stewart for a
long, long time.

Q. Does this change how you feel about next week at all? I know it is a little bit down
the road, but --?

DAVIS LOVE III: To be honest with you, I think there will be guys that won't go. The
thing -- I was at Nashville doing a golf course there, and I landed, got a phone call, and
my mom was concerned that we had arrived safely. My first reaction was to turn around and
come home. I felt like the right place to be was at home with my kids. A gentleman up
there gave me a devotional book with a nice inscription in it, and he said, "You know
what you need to do, you need to go home and tell you your kids that this doesn't happen
everyday." That was probably from a person that I don't know - one of the greatest
pieces of advice that I ever had because I went home and I talked to my kids a little bit
about it. But you don't want to scare them, but the questions that came up over Monday
night and Tuesday, and, you know, it was very important for me to be home with my kids. I
didn't want -- to be honest with you, if I hadn't talked to Justin last night and Ben last
night, I wouldn't be sitting here. I probably wouldn't have played. Next week, you know, I
think after Friday, we reevaluate how we feel. And you know, friends of mine at home said,
"How are you going to get on an airplane on Friday, doesn't that scare you?" I
have been dealing with that for over ten years. Sure, you think about it every time you
get on an airplane, but I like Tiger Wood's line, something about can't ride a bike 50
miles to work just because you were in a car accident. It is a part of our lives, and
things happen and I basically just told my kids, hey, you know, machines -- we put a lot
of faith in machines, and they break sometimes. And you know, you can't live your life
scared. And you know, when your time to go is there, sometimes it is not what we choose,
but in the end, somehow it turns out for the best. Right now, it is hard for us to see
that. But hopefully, eventually, we will.

Q. What kind of plane do you have?

DAVIS LOVE III: I am in a fractional ownership group, Executive Jet Hawker 1000 right
now.

Q. How much will golf have a priority this week?

DAVIS LOVE III: I don't think it really has a priority, except that I think we need to
realize and that is what I was trying to get to in the beginning, but I didn't do a very
good job. But I think we have to play. I have come to the conclusion today that we have to
play tomorrow, Saturday and Sunday. We have to be together and play to show our support.
If we were all over the place -- I couldn't have done the interview on the 17th tee with
Curtis Strange. I couldn't talk to Jennifer. I couldn't talk to you all. I couldn't -- you
couldn't get your message out. I sat at home and watched the Golf Channel - and not
because Jennifer is sitting here - do a wonderful job. I saw quotes from Tiger Woods;
Arnold Palmer's press release, if we don't all get together and play, that probably
doesn't happen as well. You catch the guys in Orlando at the Golf Channel, but you don't
get Tiger Woods and David Duval and Phil Mickelson, all these guys together so they --
everybody tells you how we feel. So I think it is very important that we are here. And
that when a guy plays well and comes in tomorrow, somebody will shoot a good score, and
somebody will come in and his name will be the first thing that comes up. And his memory
is going to have to live on through golf. So we need to keep playing. We don't want to say
life goes on or the TOUR goes on, but this is our family. And Justin made a great point to
me to get me here, you know, a lot of guys once they got here realized we need to be here
and be together. I know when I go home, I miss my family out here. I am home with my kids,
because they have to go to school, but you know, I have some very, very good friends at
home but I have an awful lot of good friends out here that I wouldn't see if we didn't
come out and play. These couple of events and then the start of next year is going to be
an important time for us as a Tour to talk about this and I am sure they are dealing with
the same thing in Mississippi and the same thing on the SENIOR TOUR. There is a lot of
guys out there -- the point was made that, hey, Payne's friends just aren't at THE TOUR
Championship. They are on every Tour, they are all around the world and I think it is real
important that the European Tour having their service, I think all that is. We can shed a
lot of light on Payne Stewart this week by playing that we couldn't if we didn't. 

Q. Can you reflect your early days on the TOUR with Payne; how you guys got to be close
and also there has been a lot said about how Payne sort of evolved into, I guess being the
most happy, the most peaceful person he had ever been, now I am curious if you have seen
that yourself being a friend?

DAVIS LOVE III: Yeah, of all the top players that I have played with I have seen the
full range. I have always had a lot a great respect for Payne and enjoyed being around
him. But I put him in that category of guys that-- we had differing opinions on things and
different ways of living our lives at certain times and we argued. Payne and I had some of
the most heated arguments that I have ever had on the TOUR because he is a passionate guy
and believed in what he -- I know that over the last couple of years, you know, that is
the thing that I wish I had known Payne Stewart better than I did. Over the last couple of
years, since the 93 Ryder Cup really and then over the last couple of years gotten to know
him better but Payne was always a fun-loving guy. He stayed - one thing - consistent. He
was always having fun and was always the outgoing guy. He did have some tough health
problems and physical problems and, you know, he had some rough times emotionally, but he
always seemed to be the guy that was going to bounce back and he was always a fun guy to
be around. But I think he did over the last -- if you say, grow up or change or get some
peace in his life or some faith, that was probably the only thing Payne was ever not
boastful of or proud was that he did have a great change in his life and that he -- I
didn't know until the other day that he donated a lot of money to his church. There was a
lot of showboat in Payne Stewart but there wasn't for things charity-wise or this change
in his life. I noticed the bracelet. I always noticed it because I think it shows a lot
of, you know, you got to respect the guy that comes out and puts his beliefs forward like
that, like a Tom Lehman. For some reason that had more of an impact on me with Payne. You
know Tom Lehman, you know Paul Azinger and you have talked to them about things like that
before, but you just don't see Payne Stewart. I think that had a better influence on me
and bigger, I was more surprised and pleased to see that from Payne than anybody. So yeah,
I think definitely changed. You never know why things happen. He definitely -- this is
definitely going to have an influence on people and they realize, hey, this guy finally
had peace with himself and peace in his faith and his beliefs, so, it is never a good
time, but he was at least happy with himself and his life and his family at the time that
he was taken.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT