U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 16, 1999
Davis Love III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DAVIS LOVE III: Well, if I listen and read very much more I'll think that I lived here,
but I've played here a few times, the NCAA and the North/South a few times and played a
few rounds around here as a kid with my dad doing the Golf Digest schools here. I played
the No. 4 course probably more than any, but it's covered up with tents; so there goes my
advantage. But this is a special U.S. Open and a special place, and I think anybody that's
been there is thrilled to be back. And that's a lot of guys in this field have great
memories from this golf course, from NCAAs, and growing up in the area like Scott Hoch,
and that's a lot of guys that have been looking forward to this Open for a long time. It's
going to be a great week for a lot of players.

Q. (Inaudible.) 

DAVIS LOVE III: When you say you hear a player say I like a traditional golf course, or
I don't like the golf course setup when it's tricked up, you know you're not going to get
that golf course. When you've got a great golf course that can't be set up with deep rough
around the greens, you know you're going to get a fair test of golf. When you think about
the U.S. Open, and they can handle the people here because they have Darlington twice a
year, everybody has been elaborating about it ever since they announced it, and ever since
they announced the Tour Championship. It's a great golf course and one that a lot of
players my age and a little older never thought that they would play again after the World
Opens and stuff.

Q. I've heard you talk about being here in the summer with your dad, your brother and
the golf schools, can you talk about those memories as you get out on the course, and
working on different things, and what particularly you've learned about your golf game
from playing here?

DAVIS LOVE III: Well, yeah, I've played one or two, because no matter who the owner was
at that time, that's the prize, and that was expected. We didn't get out on No. 2 a lot,
we played No. 4, mostly. I did get out and play 15, 16, 17 a few times, because it was
around the driving range, but most of my memories are playing the North/South here, or the
NCAA tournament, with my length being an advantage, this golf course is set up well for my
game. But I learned a lot of little things here that have been important to my game, swing
things from Jack Lumpkin, and he taught me how to pitch down on the 15th green one day in
one of the deep holes, side of the green, told me how to get the ball up in the air. And
just little things. But I was lucky, I got to do a lot of Golf Digest schools a lot of
nice places, and this was my favorite place to come.

Q. There's a lot of talk about the sentiment with your dad and everything and all of
this, how important is sentiment when you still have to execute the shot, does it play a
part in your psychological approach?

DAVIS LOVE III: That's what I've been getting at, nobody has an advantage when it's set
up for a U.S. Open. I don't think sentiment is going to save you any strokes or knowledge
of the golf course, because it's set up for the U.S. Open. North/South I had an advantage,
because I played some rounds, and length was an advantage, and it was match play. At the
time I knew the golf course pretty well. But now the U.S. Open makes it -- levels the
playing field, turns it into more of a patience test. I'm looking forward to the U.S. Open
competition, and it's special, because I get to go to Pinecrest, and the Carolina Hotel
and my friends are in town, and that part of it is where the sentiment comes into play.
But when you start playing, you better start hitting the fairways and the greens or
sentiment is not going to help you very much.

Q. I was just going to ask, if you could talk about how the course plays, when you
played yesterday, in comparison to when you were playing it as a college golfer in North
and South, how much the greens and the playing from the rough, what differences you
experienced?

DAVIS LOVE III: The rough makes a difference, they've got it just the right height,
rather than just lay it up every time or chip out every time, the greens are in much
better condition. The grass is fabulous, on the greens and around the fringe. Before it
was a little spotty, and now it's in great shape. And it seems to me like the slopes are
back to original design, a little steeper, and with this kind of grass where they can mow
it down, that is even more. It's firm, fast and harder than it was in the past. It got
soft there for a little while, whether it was maybe perceived as not much of a challenge,
but the Tour Championship proved that if the greens are firm and fast, they can really
cause a problem. If it rains this afternoon like they say it's going to, tomorrow will be
a pretty good scoring day. If it gets bright and sunny and the greens dry out on Sunday it
could get very, very difficult. It's really all depending on the weather right now. 

Q. Davis, there's 155 or 156 players teeing off, and Thursday and Friday at the U.S.
Open are usually long days, people missing greens. How do you deal with slow play and does
it affect your rhythm on those days?

DAVIS LOVE III: When you get to the U.S. Open, you know it's going to be slow the first
two days, you prepare yourself; it's part of the patience test, you hope for early tee
times. And if you're late, you know what to expect. On the Tour, we've gone to all but one
of our tournaments are going off two tees, which really made a difference. We finally
convinced Arnold Palmer to go to two tees back at Bay Hill, and it helped weather-wise and
pace of play time. You say we can't play threesomes at Augusta. Well, we did it and it
didn't slow the tournament, everybody played the same course. Hopefully someday when the
field is this big they will realize that it's a more level playing field in golf, but
that's something you have to deal with. It's going to be slow on Sunday afternoon. If the
greens are hard and fast, too, with twosomes.

Q. It doesn't matter to you if you went off No. 10 at the U.S. Open, it wouldn't matter
to you, if you played it backwards?

DAVIS LOVE III: If you could play it faster, everybody would go for that.

Q. Davis, do you think the conditions, three-inch rough and the softer greens maybe
more players will be in this tournament than might normally be under the rock-hard,
bowling-alley width fairways that are normally conditions for an Open?

DAVIS LOVE III: We had some soft conditions at Oakland Hills, and it still seemed like
-- it was very tough at the end. So it really depends on if that weather holds up all
week. But I would say if you can throw it at the pin, yeah, it brings a lot more players
into play.

Q. Do you have anything in particular you learned from your father while you were here
at the Golf Digests, any commandment?

DAVIS LOVE III: No, not really. We had a lot of time, a lot of lessons, a lot of
ball-hitting. But every week on the range, whether it was here or anywhere else, we did a
lot of stuff. But, no, nothing that really stands out. But I just -- I rather spending a
lot of time with my dad and Jack Lumpkin pounding balls, and winning the long drive
contest off the 14th tee. No. 2, North and South has a long drive off that hole.

Q. How far did you hit it?

DAVIS LOVE III: I don't know. Longer than everybody else (Laughter.) But I learned a
lot, really, no matter where we were. We hit a lot of balls while we were here, though.

Q. Davis, how are you playing coming into this championship, and how about the physical
condition?

DAVIS LOVE III: My back is perfectly fine today. And it's kind of like the weather; you
never know. It feels great the last few days. And I played decent last week; so it's U.S.
Open time. You never know until you get out there, but it feels pretty good.

Q. Davis, I don't know if anyone has addressed this yet, but a lot of people pointed
towards you because you did grow up playing these courses and you would be a favorite
here. Are you feeling the pressure, and how do you react to being the hometown favorite?

DAVIS LOVE III: Well, since I grew up in Georgia, I only lived in Carolina for a year,
but going to school here and I've gotten used to it playing a little bit in Greensboro.
Again, it's the U.S. Open. If this was the Pinehurst Invitational, say, it would be a
little different, but this is the U.S. Open and you can't put any more pressure on
yourself than that. I'm excited, as I said, to see my friends, to see old places, and get
to eat breakfast in the Pinecrest are a lot of fun, and that makes this more special than
other Opens for me. But this is like playing the U.S. Open at Pebble Beach or playing the
British Open at St. Andrews. This is a great golf tournament. Every one is great, but this
will be a notch above for the guys that have been here. I played well in the Masters the
last few years, and I'm trying to keep that going, trying not to pay attention to the rest
of it. But I have noticed, we all talked about, we have never seen a town and fans so
excited. It's like they are nuts about it. They are really -- it's like maybe a Monday
crowd at the Masters. They know they are not coming back, they only get to see one day at
the Masters and they are jacked up about it. People feel like maybe this is our only
chance to see a U.S. Open at Pinehurst, and they're thrilled. And it really is amazing,
the autographs, the pictures, the excitement of the people, the waitresses in the
restaurant, they are just geared up and it's really great to see that part of it. It's
great to see, but it's a little bit unnerving that all those people are so excited so
early. It makes you start to get nervous a couple of days early.

Q. What's been your most successful chipping club?

DAVIS LOVE III: The putter. In fact, Jack Lumpkin yesterday when we were practicing
around the course, he said, maybe you ought to try something other than a putter, and
that's my safest shot, the one I feel most comfortable with. That and if it rolls way down
the hill into the short cut I've been putting it up with a 3-wood, something that I
haven't done much of in the past, but I think those two, basically the chip and runs --
the grass is so good and so tight and the greens, if they are hard and fast, I don't think
I'm going to have much success pitching it up that, so there will probably be a lot of
putts and bump-and-runs.

Q. Everybody has been talking about what kind of advantage you or others who are very
familiar with this course may or may not have had, what about guys that aren't familiar
with this course? How much of a disadvantage does that put them at? Does it at all?

DAVIS LOVE III: I don't think it puts anybody at an advantage or disadvantage. Tom
Lehman was in the last group the last four Opens. He has an advantage maybe because of
that, or Tiger Woods has won the last two tournaments, maybe he has an advantage to that.
You can point to whatever you want. What it boils down is who is the most patient and who
is the most focused and who makes the most putts for par, and who hangs in there. I don't
think local knowledge -- Scott Hoch would be the favorite if local knowledge played a part
or Curtis Strange; so I don't think that makes a big difference, because it's a U.S. Open.
If it was Atlanta Country Club and I grew up on the golf course and played it every day,
yeah, maybe it would be a little bit of an advantage, or John Houston or Randy Bean in
Florida, maybe I would have an advantage. But I don't think at the U.S. Open you can give
anybody a clear advantage. I'm going to be more excited maybe than somebody that grew up
in California that's never been here. Just like I'll be more excited at the Masters,
maybe, than a guy from Europe that didn't grow up looking at that golf course and dreaming
about playing it. That makes it more fun, but I don't think it gives you much of an
advantage.

Q. Is it hard for you or some people to throw away the pin sheet and get the ball on
the front of the green, basically you don't have to shoot the pins at all?

DAVIS LOVE III: No, because we play U.S. Opens and Masters. When you do that, you're
used to it. Greens hard and fast, Players Championship this year you didn't need a pin
sheet, hopefully you can get the ball on the green. No, I think we've learned to deal with
that.

Q. They also say putting is going to be probably the biggest factor on at least greens,
especially because you -- how are you putting coming to the tournament. And a second part
of that question, so many people are thinking that the greens, if they're wet, the guy is
going to be able to play target golf, you knowing the area knows it takes almost a monsoon
to really make these greens soften so much, and I want your thoughts on that, too?

DAVIS LOVE III: Well, they'll be softer, it's rained, they're softer than they wanted
them. They wanted it to stay dry, so they're not going to have this at least until the sun
comes out. With this humidity and a little bit of steady rain, they're softer than they
want. I'm putting fairly well, I putted pretty good last week, but -- you can hit the ball
and keep it on the green right now, and that's probably not what they wanted.

Q. Does this essentially come down to a chipping contest?

DAVIS LOVE III: No, I think Tiger summed it up the other day saying you have to hit the
ball in the fairway enough times to get the ball on the green and have some chances for
birdies. You're not going to win unless you make some birdies, nobody is going to make 72
straight pars and win. You're going to have to make some birdies. It's going to be -- the
simplest way of saying it, who can be the most patient and put their misses in the right
spots. Miss too long every day and you can make three pars and a bogey. Miss No. 2 short
and right every day and you can make three bogeys and a double. So that's where you're
going to have to be patient enough to say look, I can't shoot at any pins on the front
right of that green, I have to keep it over to the left. And when you get to No. 5, you
can't miss the green short and left, every miss has to be long. And playing that kind of
patience game is going to be hard. So I think that's where it's going to be won or lost,
the guy can't get frustrated, I'm 1-over at 4, and I'm going to shoot at the pin at 5, and
then you know you've lost control of your game plan. Sticking with it and being patient
and not putting yourself on your short side all the time. You short side yourself on this
course, you're going to be dead. Short and left of 5 and then putting it over the green
and then coming back so maybe you can get up and down, that's going to be the secret.
Holing a few putts and hanging in, that is going to be very, very valuable. But it's not
just a chipping contest, you've got to put yourself in the right place to putt or chip
from, that means you better hit some fairways to keep control of the ball.

Q. Davis, you addressed this down at Augusta, talking about your career and what you've
done in your career, particularly in the Masters, you thought you might have more of them
at this point, can you talk a little bit more about that and your feelings going into
another major where it comes up again?

DAVIS LOVE III: Well, I feel like I have the last five years, I guess, since '95, I've
improved my play in the Masters, and just tried to get steadily better and better. Yeah, I
would have liked to won more, but all I can do is try to win this one right now. This is
the main focus, and then after this we'll go across the pond, you know. So it's just going
forward. I've gotten to the point where I feel like I have the game to win, but it's going
out and beating the other 50 guys that have the game to win. And it's a patience test, and
hopefully I can hang in until the end this week.

Q. Davis, you talked about growing up and dreaming of playing in the Masters at
Augusta, did you ever dream of playing an Open at No. 2 when you were growing up?

DAVIS LOVE III: No, I dreamed of hopefully being good enough to play in the North and
South one day, hoping I would get in the North/South, Junior and never have to qualify for
it. This is a U.S. Open course, and you thought about Oak Hill and Brookline and Pebble
Beach as U.S. Open courses, and Tom Watson in 1982, that kind of stuff sticks out. But
North/South Amateur to me when I was growing up was the biggest tournament that I could
ever imagine playing.

Q. With the 3 inch rough, how many times yesterday or whichever days you'll be hitting
driver, with the rough being down might you be more aggressive?

DAVIS LOVE III: You're going to have to when they have 489 Par 4s, you better hit a lot
of drivers. There's a few holes you won't, 3 and 7. But holes that we used to hit iron off
the tee, like 12, they've backed the tee up, so you're going to have to hit more drivers
than the past. But it depends on the conditions. Holes like 13 -- 3, 7 and 13 will be
layup holes for sure, and the rest of them will be odds on drivers. But you're talking
about 2 and 4 and 8 and 10 and 11 and 14 and 16, that's a lot of long holes out that, the
guys are going to have to pound it out. I can see a little bit of wind in on 16 and maybe
only a handful of guys getting on the green, because it's basically a par 5 into the wind.
Yesterday there was no wind and I hammered a drive and could have hit a 3 iron in the
middle of the green, that's an awful a lot of golf. Everybody else in my group was hitting
woods. And that was Freddie and Tom Watson. That's a long hole. So I think a driver is
going to be an important club.

Q. Davis, with three inch rough, might the scoring be higher, as compared to five inch
rough, and it may trick you into shooting at greens instead of hacking out and taking no
worse than a bogey?

DAVIS LOVE III: I think you'll see bigger numbers for it. Because normal U.S. rough you
hit it in, hack it out and hit it on the green and one putt or two putt. Now you get a guy
that hits a rocket over the third green, he might be talking to the guys down on the five
green, deciding who's away. So you could see some interesting stuff. Hit you a little
flier over the 14th green, you know, which I've done in the North/South, and it's down at
10 fairway. So, yeah, you could see some big, big numbers because of that, rather than a
guy laying up. And I keep thinking about Nathaniel Crosby winning the U.S. Amateur,
hitting the front of every green and staying out of trouble. If the greens are hard and
fast, you're going to see that. You're going to see guys going the 15th hole hitting a
club they know they can't get that, put it in front of the green, at least not go over and
make double. But again if it rains you can hit a 5 or something on the front of the green
and it will stop. But there's going to be some shots out of the rough, the gallery is
going to get some business, you know. That's going to be more interesting than every time
you hit it in the rough just hacking it out.

Q. How old were you when you came here with your father, what age to what age?

DAVIS LOVE III: I would say 10 or 11 until -- through my college years. They were
having schools I think pretty steady in through that.

Q. What year did you win the driving contest, how old were you?

DAVIS LOVE III: I wouldn't want to get ridiculous, but I think every year I played the
North/South I won it.

Q. What ages?

DAVIS LOVE III: Well, that was around -- I probably played in '83, '84 and '85 in the
North/South, somewhere in there.

Q. You were about 18 to 21 or something like that?

DAVIS LOVE III: Yeah. In the North/South. I probably only played about three times.
Again, I was just hoping to get in the thing, much less win.

Q. When you were at the Pinecrest, did you chip into the little hole?

DAVIS LOVE III: I used to, but the line is too long this week. You can't even --

Q. What's the most money you've won doing that?

DAVIS LOVE III: I don't think I ever won anything, because I couldn't chip in college.
I don't think I ever won that game. 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT