THE HONDA CLASSIC
February 26, 2016
Davis Love III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
DAVIS LOVE III: Well, my game was a little shaky, playing with two guys that were playing very well, but I hung in there, got it in even par and I guess still in the golf tournament, so that's a good thing.  I didn't drive it well enough.  I just need to hit more fairways tomorrow.   
 Q.  What was important about last night?  What was the feeling, atmosphere?  What were you happy about what happened last night?  
DAVIS LOVE III: I'm happy that I got to go to Jack and Barbara's house, first of all.  That was the neat thing.  I think most of the guys, that was the main focus.   
But once they heard Jack talk about The Ryder Cup, his great memories of it, and we talked a little bit about preparing for major championships or for Ryder Cups, and so we all learned something for sure.   
We got to see Tiger, Phil and Jack, all in the same room, and talking to each other and asking each other questions.  We had an awful lot of wins sitting there for some young guys to listen to.   
And it was just great to get everybody together, because you know, that's not even all the guys that might make The Ryder Cup Team but it was a big group of guys that are now excited about it, thinking about it and are part of the process.   
 Q.  How many were there all together?  
DAVIS LOVE III: I think we ended up with assistant captains, probably 25.  Tiger came, Jim Furyk drove down from Ponte Vedra.  Tom Lehman flew all the way from Phoenix and is already back there doing a charity outing today.  A lot of guys made a lot of effort; and Dustin not win, in the tournament, he came, and most of the guys that we invited from here came.   
We had a few guys with bad backs late last night, and Patrick Reed's family was getting sick.  So we missed a few guys, but most of the guys we invited in the field, and we would have loved to have gone to 50 or 60 on the points list, but we would have had too many for an intimate dinner.  There was a few guys, certainly, that I wanted there, but it was a good group and we are going to do it more during the year to keep it going.   
 Q.  How impressive was the house and how is the food?  
DAVIS LOVE III: The food was excellent.  Somebody asked me earlier, said what's for dinner, I said, I don't know, it will be good, it's Barbara and Jack's house.  I had not seen the house in a long time since it was redone, so to see the animals and the tennis courts -- to open up his house on a Thursday night -- he had to go to a charity thing up in Bradenton with Andy Bean; his busy schedule to allow us to do that is incredible.   
And then when we leave, you know, how big The Ryder Cup is:  Anything else I can do for you guys, just let me know, don't hesitate to ask.  So we've got Jack Nicklaus is even more invested in this team than he was before, and that's the great job The PGA of America has done over the last year and a half is, all right, let's get everybody who has a history with The Ryder Cup to help out and be involved.  It's really working.   
 Q.  Did Jack hold court at all or take questions?  
DAVIS LOVE III: Well, we got him started.  We asked questions and yes, he held court.  Talked a lot about -- we knew the questions to ask.  Asking about preparing for major championships or asking about being nervous, how he handled pressure, things like that, and just him telling stories.   
His memory, as you all know, is just phenomenal.  He remembers every shot, every hole, and every situation that he was in, and he's always honest, whether it's about how well he played or how poorly he played.  It was very educational I think for jet ran players like me and for some of the young guys.   
 Q.  With six months to go, how do you sort of balance the possibility of Tiger playing?  
DAVIS LOVE III: Well, he's swinging in a simulator I saw, so he must be getting better.  You know, he wants to play.  Phil wants to play.  Jim Furyk, Steve Stricker, they all want to play.  So right now, I'm getting great support from Jim and Tiger, but we want them off the bench and in the game, so hopefully they will get back at it soon.   
 Q.  How did he look?  
DAVIS LOVE III: He looked great.  He always looks good.  He looked fit.  Looked happy.  You know, I think Jim said it best, he goes, "I miss being with the guys."  I think Tom and Jim and Tiger enjoyed it just because they are back with the PGA TOUR guys and back in the mix a little bit.  So it was good for all of us.   
You know, The Ryder Cup Team only gets together as a team for one week every two years, so we're trying to change that.  So it was nice to get everybody in the same room and talk about it.   
 Q.  Do you have a next one of these planned?  
DAVIS LOVE III: We have a next one planned.  We have a clothes fitting at Jack's house again at Memorial is our next big thing.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT