AT&T PEBBLE BEACH PRO-AM
February 10, 2016
Davis Love III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JULIUS MASON: Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, very pleased to welcome Davis Love, III, who is making his 30th start here at the AT&T Pebble Beach Pro-Am.  Davis has been very busy this year.  He's playing the PGA TOUR, he's playing the PGA TOUR Champions, he is the Ryder Cup captain, and the Ryder Cup is set to be staged just 33 week from now at Hazeltine National Golf Club.
Davis, let's begin with how are you handling juggling all of these different activities.
DAVIS LOVE, III: Well, it's fun.  It keeps me busy.  Keeps me out of trouble.  I'm enjoying playing.  I enjoyed three weeks in Hawaii and two weeks with the Regular Tour and one week with the PGA TOUR Champions and seeing all my buddies out there.  So, I'm off to a good start this year.  Spent a lot of time with a lot of guys that are playing well on our Ryder Cup points list and making some good contacts with them.  So it's been a great start for the year for me, always excited to be here at Pebble, though.
JULIUS MASON: How closely are you monitoring or watching the points, the U.S. points system, because there certainly seems to be a lot of movement.
DAVIS LOVE, III: Well, there's been a lot of movement.  Watching really from the start of the year, obviously, Jordan got off to a great start and I guess, cemented his place.  I don't think there's any way guys will make enough points to knock him out.
And then Jason Dufner, who I've talked about before, whose one of his main goals is to play a lot this year and make the Ryder Cup team, obviously that was a great win for him, and he went from 32nd to 8 in the points that week.  So that was a great move for him.
Streelman, Weekley, English, all those guys.  It's fun to watch them play well and move up.
And, obviously, Rickie close call last week.  But he's playing great wherever he plays.  So it's fun to watch the American players playing well and it's fun for me to be out with them.
I get to play with Brandt three rounds again this week.  We have already played over in Hawaii this year.  It's just good for me to be out with these guys and hanging out with them and running into them in the locker room and in practice rounds and really, they're motivating me.  Motivating me to do a good job to get prepared and get everything ready for them.
JULIUS MASON: Speaking of practice round today, who were you playing with today?
DAVIS LOVE, III: I had John Rollins and Lucas Glover and Jonathan Byrd, which is one of our usual parings for a practice round.  We had a lot of fun.
And I was actually going to just play nine holes with them at Spyglass, and we had a little match going, so I played the back nine.  Got a good practice round in.  And Lucas is, obviously, making a nice comeback, he's playing well.  And Jonathan played well down in South America.  So it was nice to see those guys coming back as well.
JULIUS MASON: And you're feeling pretty comfortable with your driver out there today?
DAVIS LOVE, III: You got there after I hit a few bad drives, but, yeah, I'm happy with my game.  I'm hitting it pretty solid.  I'm working on it.  I need to work on my wedge game and my putter, like always.  But hitting the ball pretty solid and I'm excited.
I always like playing here in these courses.  They bring out the best in me sometimes.  I had a couple, two or three, really good tournaments here.  So I'm looking forward to getting back at places that I like to play.
JULIUS MASON: Thank you.  Questions?
Q. How many Ryder Cup rookies would have to be on your team for you to be surprised by the number?
DAVIS LOVE, III: To be surprised?  I would say half.  I think we're used to two or three or four.  So if you had six or seven, you would be surprised.
We have got some guys on the -- on the edges now, it looks like we could get a bunch of them.  But like we just said, there's a lot of shake up.  We look down to the top 40 a lot this time of year, to see where guys are.  Maybe to 86, did you say?  Yeah, there's some good names all the way down to 86.
Q. I think you can go to 11 with a win this week.
DAVIS LOVE, III: I'm well aware.  That's why I was just out there on the range doing drills, hitting balls.
But, yeah, we know we got a good chance of having a new group, whether it's some guys that have only played one or two to a bunch of rookies, so.  But, we're at that stage.
We have got some guys that are hurt that we're hoping get healthy and can play.  But if we don't, we're probably looking at some new guys, which is good.  It's exciting.  That's what we need to do.
Jordan Spieth and Rickie Fowler have already stepped up to be leaders.  And I think we're all set with my vice captains that we announced back in November.  I think we're pretty covered on veteran leadership and if we get the guy -- the way guys are playing, I mean gosh, I played with Kevin Na this year, I played with a lot of guys that are really, really playing well and they want to make the team.  So, I'm excited about the youth movement.
Q. Julius mentioned 33 weeks out.  I won't question his math on that, I'll trust him.  Is there anything you learned from being captain last time this far out that you're doing differently this time?
DAVIS LOVE, III: I'm watching the points a lot more.  In fact, I noticed a little computer glitch a couple weeks ago because I was watching it a lot more than I was in the past.  I think what I learned from last time is, I thought that it really, the points, really didn't make that much -- I didn't need to focus on who the players were until later, until I kind of got a handle on who they were going to be.
But I think this time around, through talking through all the guys on the Committee and my now my vice captains, is we need to grab a hold of these guys right now.  Obviously, the Johnson boys and Jordan are pretty much a lock.  It looks like they're going to make the team.
So, once we do the math, and we say, hey, they're pretty solid, now we can start talking to them about, hey, let's talk about practice rounds, let's talk about team building, let's talk about what you need to be prepared.  What can I do differently, especially Zach and Dustin, they played for me -- we have been on -- we have done a lot of trips together, those two guys and I.
So I can sit down with Dustin and go, ok, take me all the way back.  What could we have done different starting back in whenever his first one was, 2010 in Wales?  What can we do different to help you get ready to play?  What have we done wrong, what can we do better?  And now I've got 33 weeks to talk to them about that.
We're going to have a dinner during the week of Honda, and then we're probably have two or three more.  And we're going to ask Zach and Jordan, say, all right, what do you want to do?  Do you want to go to dinner, do you want to go play golf, do you want to go fishing?  What can we do for team building.
So I'm going to be a little bit more focused this time on the start at the top, work my way through the points list and make sure that we got everybody covered.  Not wait until the Memorial tournament when we have a clothes fitting to talk to the guys for the first time.
Q. What was the computer glitch and how did you find it?
DAVIS LOVE, III: They were like two weeks in a row, it said Dufner jumped up.  And it just didn't look quite right.
So, it was just -- it was like some things were lagging and some weren't.  But it was -- they got sent to me before it really went out the second week.  And I said, you know, something doesn't look right.  I know somebody should have fallen when somebody jumped up.  So I don't know what the computer did, but it didn't give somebody credit.
But I was watching it, and I knew that Jason had already moved up, he didn't just move up 32 to 8 or whatever the number was.  So, but it's fun to watch.
Now, this time around, people are helping, they're giving me more information.  Whether it's Jim Furyk or Steve Stricker or Tom Lehman.  Tom and I finally got to sit down in Hawaii since we hadn't really been together since, gosh, maybe this tournament last year, to sit down and talk about Ryder Cup.  So Tom and I sat down in Hawaii, ironed some things out, and I'm getting great advice from all those guys.
So we're just -- we don't want to put pressure on the guys, we want to take pressure off.  We want to figure out a way to make them more comfortable over the next 33 weeks getting ready.  There's going to be a lot of talk about it.  We want to make sure that we're -- they're prepared.  Obviously, right now everybody's focused on, all right, what's coming up?  The Masters and the PLAYERS Championship.
But we want to make sure in the back of their mind that they can come to us for whatever they need to get ready.  Any questions, I had a question today, up in the tent from a potential Ryder Cup player.  That's what I'm doing for the next 33 weeks, is answering questions and making everybody comfortable.
Q. What did they ask you?
DAVIS LOVE, III: About points.  Which I'm learning more and more about.
Q. How they work?
DAVIS LOVE, III: Yeah, how they work.  Why -- I get questions about the fall events.  I get questions about other -- are the Majors double what they were last year?  Things like that.  Everybody's watching it.  It's great.  They're focused on it.  Which is good.
Now I got to get them not to focus on it.  Don't look at the points.  See if I go out and play this week and think that if I win, I'm going to get to 11 then I'll put too much pressure on myself.  So I just got to go play.
Q. Going forward, you're going to have the dinners, what other things are you doing, because you've talked about it, I spoke with Tom and he said, yeah, a lot of things are kicking off in February.  What are some of the things you're doing to build the interest not only with the players, obviously, but also with the fans and some of the other activities that usually start at this time of the year?
DAVIS LOVE, III: Well, hopefully in February or March the snow will start melting at Hazeltine.  We can get back up there.  We can go to a hockey game up there next week, but I don't think we need to go to the golf course quite yet.
Kerry Haigh sent me a picture of them blowing snow out of the bunker with a snow blower, and then replacing the sand.  So they're working even though there's snow up there.
But Tom and I are just, are more thinking about what are our plans going to be for the summer.  My wife, Robin, was just up in New York working on clothes.  We're working on dinners already.  Things that -- the technical behind the scenes things, we were going to continue working on and in February March, April.
But I think like I said before, starting at the Honda, Tom, I think when he was captain, had a dinner at Akron.  That's too late for us now.  We want to get ahead of the game.  We're going to do our first one in March.
Tiger and some of the guys were talking about, maybe we need to go somewhere away from golf and go fishing and hang out and just have some fun and talk about it.  Team building.  Like any good company or any good team does.  Take a group of guys and maybe take a group of caddies, go do the same thing.  But just little things like that.  We just want it to be fun and friendly and relaxed when we get there.  So if we get all the business out of the way, the preparation, the guys know how to prepare for golf tournaments.  We just want them to have the opportunity to prepare and then go have fun.
So I think if we all get to know each other a little bit better in March and April and May, rather than waiting until August and September, we're going to be better off.  And Jay set a great stage for us in Korea.  We had a great trip over there, we had a lot of fun.  Hopefully we'll have the same guys and have that same relaxed attitude and atmosphere.  And luckily, Steve and Jim and I were all there with Jay watching what he did, helping him out, and we learned a lot.  So we had a nice little warm-up practice round, and you look at it now, we're going to have -- we might have a bunch of new guys, but we're probably going to have a lot of those same guys on this next team.
Q. Watching this for the last 20, 30, whatever years, you've been on winning teams, you've captained, you've been on losing teams.  It just -- everybody talks about camaraderie, which helps, and yet it seems like two years ago, it gets down to where the European side basically makes more 3- and 4-footers.  Is that a legitimate argument?
DAVIS LOVE, III: And there was one -- there was a couple par-5s that they birdied, and we didn't birdie.  It comes down to golf in the end, yes.  It comes down to who plays the best.
So, what would Bob Rotella tell me is the best way to prepare for the Masters?  We have to do that as a team.  We have to prepare for the Ryder Cup the best way each guy knows how.
Now, I think we overdid some stuff, maybe, at Medinah.  We worked a little too hard on where the putts were going to break.  We got a little too wrapped up in details, and we weren't free wheeling it enough, maybe, on Sunday.  Why, I don't know.
But I know when the pressure gets on, it's harder to make putts.  And that's what it comes down to.  So, if we're more prepared and we're more relaxed and we're more focused, if we have momentum, all those things, then we can win.
But we know we have a great team.  And over the next 33 week, I'm going to convince these guys what's happened in the past is in the past, and we're going to have a great team, and you're going to be on a great team, and we're going to go out and play like a great team.  And not let any of the distractions get to us.
Q. I think the last two home games for the Americans, we had one case where the Europeans had no idea the certain tee at a par-3 was going to be used.  At Medinah, if I'm not mistaken, Europe had spies, for lack of a better word, in the grandstands during practice rounds to see where the Americans were putting to.  There was that one dogleg left when they, I think, they had them tee up on the forward tee that was never in play thinking it might be used, etcetera.  Point being, how much control do you think you or the home team should have?  And is it getting out of control to the point where maybe it's best to have a neutral setup?
DAVIS LOVE, III: I think that's where we're at.  Where Darren and I, the new Captains' Agreement agreed that once we get to the tournament week, it's in Kerry Haigh's hands.  He's going to set up the golf course.
Obviously, over the summer, we can look at it and talk about it.  But what we have done in the past of setting the pins early and putting to different locations or goofing around with, maybe they're all going to be in the corners, maybe they're all going to be in the middle.  I just told Kerry, I love the way you set up the PGA Championship, and we're going to go with that.
Now, I don't like a lot of deep rough.  I think the fans want to see birdies.  I told him that.  But, yeah, Darren and I have agreed that we just -- there's not going to be any hidden agendas or secrets.  We're just going to play the golf course the way you would normally see a PGA Championship set up.
And if you go and ask the players on the TOUR, they would agree that Kerry does a great job setting up the golf course and we ought to just let him do it.  At Medinah, we thought maybe we ought to put all the pins on the left, because our guys hit it all to the left.  Paul Azinger thought maybe we ought to put them all in the middle of the greens, but it comes down to the 3-footers that are going to win it or lose it.
So I think we, again, I think we overanalyzed a little bit last time.  We had two or three guys that putted and putted and putted and putted to the spots, and then maybe over-read them when the pressure got on, tried a little too hard to be perfect.
So, yeah, I think you can overdo that.  I've heard stories about where they put more rough on right and at Valdarama we know they pinched it in.  And as Dru Love said, my dad doesn't like rough.  So we didn't have any rough at Medinah.
So I think we can overdo it a little bit.  But, generally, I think Darren and I agree we're not going to pull any of that stuff, we're just going to go play what Kerry sets up.
Q. So if you want no rough, or even if you want a thick rough, that's your call, meaning to Hazeltine.  But on Monday, Kerry's the one that sets the locations and everything?
DAVIS LOVE, III: Yeah, I can't say on Monday afternoon, hey, you know what, our guys are all hooking it, put the pins on the left.  No we're not going to do any of that stuff.
Q. Would you like to?
DAVIS LOVE, III: Well, I think Kerry understands where it's gone the last three or four home games is, hey, we just want birdies and fans to have fun and watch it.  Obviously, Paul went to more of an extreme and put them right in the middle of the greens and ran a lot of tees up and it worked.
So, what we did at Medinah worked for two days and didn't work for one day, so there's no perfect system.  But that's where Jim was very involved and Stricker were very involved in what we did at Medinah, and we can talk about it this summer.
I just think when you go to the PGA Championship, you don't hear guys complaining about the setup.  So, I think we have -- am I saying that right, Julius?  We, Kerry, is pretty much in charge, and we're going to -- we might say yeah, move some tees up on the par-5s and instead of being they're all 600 yards at Hazeltine, maybe we want to get to some of them.
But there's not going to be any, no, there's not going to be any fooling around.  I'm not going to get involved with that, and Darren's not going to get involved with that.  Now, we might have some other secrets, but it's not going to be golf course setup.
Q. But just to clarify, at Medinah, you did have that ability to do whatever you wanted each day.
DAVIS LOVE, III: We had a plan going in the beginning of the week, we didn't mess around with it once we started.
Q. But you had control?
DAVIS LOVE, III: Yes, we probably could have.
Q. Because I think it started last year at Gleneagles that you gave it to the officials to deal with on the week of.  That's the first time, right?  If I'm correct?
JULIUS MASON: I would double check with Kerry on that.
DAVIS LOVE, III: Or Paul McGinley.  But, yeah, in fact, we got on, Mike Hulbert and I, were standing on 17 tee at Medinah, watching I don't know, third to last match maybe, and that pin was way over to the right, and we go how did that pin get to the right?  We said we were all going to be on the left.  How did we miss that one?  And when you think about it, if the pin had been in the middle of the green or on the left, and everybody had been hitting it in the middle of the green and 2-putting we would have probably won the Ryder Cup.  So, this time we decided we out thought ourselves so much last time, let's just play, go play golf.
If it's not a lot of rough, and you can get to some of the par-5s, and the pins aren't completely in the corners, they're where guys can make birdies, then the best team's going to win, so.
Q. The other question is, is how much have you talked to Jordan since we saw you in Hawaii; and Tiger; and obviously Furyk, because he's out now for undetermined length of time because of the surgery.
DAVIS LOVE, III: I talked to Jordan yesterday in the fitness truck briefly because he's not answering my texts, so he obviously changed his number.  So I told him I need his new number and asked him where he was playing the next couple weeks.
But Tiger, Jim, and Tom -- I haven't really talked to Steve, a little bit at the Sony -- but guys have really been supportive of everything and now we're more, what do you think we ought to do Tuesday night of the Ryder Cup?  Do you think we ought to go here or there.  Talking about dinners, talking about plans, talking about night time activities during the week.  Things like that.  They're helping me with that a lot.
Q. I know Azinger did the whole, whatever, pep rally at Louisville.  Which we all kind of pointed to, thinking that it was a pretty big success because, at first, Paul thought he was the only one to go and all of a sudden all the players were like, no, no, we're going to go, too.  Do you have any anticipation of doing anything similar to that in Minneapolis?
DAVIS LOVE, III: I think we are, right?
JULIUS MASON: We have been talking about a fan activation program, details still being worked on.  But again we also want to make sure that the players have as much time as possible during the week where there are no distractions.
DAVIS LOVE, III: So the captain might go is what he's saying.
Q. And then the captain says, I'm going to go, and then all of a sudden all the players say they're going.
DAVIS LOVE, III: Maybe we can get a couple assistant captains to go and we'll be in good shape.
Q. Probably Tiger and Jordan.
DAVIS LOVE, III: If Jim Furyk goes, everybody will be happy.
Q. At this point with Jim, what's your anticipation?  Obviously, he should have played Presidents Cup, didn't; was in the top-5 I think in or top-10 in the world when this happened.
DAVIS LOVE, III: I'm hearing that he could be playing some time late spring.  The way he grinds out top-10s, he can get right back on the points train.  But hopefully he bounces back.  And like I said, him and Tiger, we're waiting for them to come back and get to plan and hopefully be healthy.
But the great thing is, I got them either way.  I would rather them be playing and healthy and happy.  I know they're both very frustrated with the last four or five months, but they're still excited about the Ryder Cup -- and you saw it with Jim.  That was incredible.  He gets hurt, can't play, gets immediately on a plane and goes to Korea and helps Jay out.
So, he's a hundred percent bought in, and just like I've told some several of my friends that have gotten hurt over the years, like Brandt included, that a little time off ain't going to hurt you, it's going to make your career a lot longer, so maybe this will extend Jim's career another few years, taking a few months off.
Q. Did you know Mark O'Meara is on this list?  He's 18 spots ahead of you.
DAVIS LOVE, III: Majors, right?
Q. How much further along are you in your preparation than you were four years ago at this time?
DAVIS LOVE, III: I think because the PGA of America has such a great system, I'm probably in about the same place, but I'm a lot more, I sleep a lot better at night.  I know where I am, we're working on a few things, but I know now how they're going to get done.  I'm not as nervous about it as much as I was, I wasn't, I'm not as unsure as I was the last time.
So I think Robin and I would tell you we're ahead of the game, but everything's right on schedule and we're very comfortable with it.  Now, I feel like it's mostly golf.  We got the fitting at the Memorial Tournament, got a few things going on that we have to get done, but I think we're ahead of the game this time.
Q. When are we going to know your last assistant captain?
DAVIS LOVE, III: See how everybody plays the rest of the summer.
Q. That was not direct.
DAVIS LOVE, III: No.  We don't know.  So we can't, we're not lying when we say we don't know.  And we agreed that the, in the Captains' Agreement that it was up to five.  That means it can still, it could still be four.  So, we have a lot of potentials, but we'll see what happens.
Q. I have to ask this to a guy who almost made the team and wasn't quite there, but can you draw any comparisons with Hazeltine and Kiawah in terms of desperation for the U.S. to win, importance, in the eyes of the public?  Given what Europe's done over the last three years.
DAVIS LOVE, III: I think in the eyes of the fans, yes, I hear it every day that I'm out on TOUR or walking through an airport or whatever.  "Bring back the Cup.  We want you guys to win.  You're due for a win."
So, yeah, I think the fans -- but I don't think the players, we don't look back and say, wow, the last eight years I haven't won the Masters.  I think we look at an opportunity and I think these guys are looking at it as an opportunity.
I think Dufner said it best to me at the PGA Championship last year, "I want to play on a winning Ryder Cup team.  That's a goal of mine."  I think when you talk to Brandt and to Jordan, a lot of these guys, they played, they have been around it.  They just want to play on a winning Ryder Cup team.  They're focused, they don't care what happened in the past, they don't have as long a history of it as I do.  I have a lot of stinging defeats, obviously, if you have been at this the last 20 or 30 years, there's a lot of defeats for the U.S.
But these guys are fresh attitude, maybe have played one, or two, and they want to play on a winning team.  I think they're all looking forward.  When I saw Rickie, Jordan, Dustin, Zach, all those guys, Patrick Reed, in Korea, Jimmy Walker, they were focused.  They were ready to win.  It was a tough battle.  They had to play well to win that.
So, I like what I'm seeing, their attitudes, they're excited about it, I don't think they're looking backwards, they're looking forwards, they want to make this team and they want to win.
Q. What's the worst you've ever felt as a player leaving a Ryder Cup?
DAVIS LOVE, III: Oh, gosh.  Well, I think for Lanny when we left Oak Hill.  That was back when you had the closing dinner you had to go in Sunday night and sit down.  And I sat with Lanny and got had to sit, it was a very quiet dinner.  Closing dinner.  Just to see -- you know Lanny.  So excited about it.  So into it.  He put everything he could into it for a year and a half.  And then to have it all unravel right there at the end, I was really, really disappointed for him.
Obviously Valderrama for Kite, Tiger and Justin and I were playing so well and we went over there and none of us played well.  It's just disappointing.  I know what happens is you try too hard, if the captain's one of your buddies or mentors, you try too hard and I know Brandt still saying, I wish I would have played better, I owe you one.  I said, you don't owe me one.  If we're starting to add up who owes who, I owe Kite and Watkins and a lot of captains.
So we can't play that game, but you do and that's why I need to spend a lot of time with these guys like Brandt and Kuchar and say, hey, look, we're friends, we have been friends for a long time, let's just go play golf.  It's not about me, it's about you guys, it's your team.  And I did a little bit of that last time, I didn't do enough of it, I think.  The Webb Simpsons and those guys, I know they were really, they wanted it for themselves, but they want it for their captain and their assistant captains.  This time we got different group to surround them.  We have a lot of fire power in the assistant captains and I think we can get that message to them, hey, we're, this is the U.S. team, let's go play.  We sit up on that stage, we always feel like we have the advantage going in.  I think we got to somehow carry that momentum through to the end for ones.
Q. When does golf go to the back burner for you this year?
DAVIS LOVE, III: If I don't make the Ryder Cup team it will go on the back burner.  I had a great question yesterday at the Boys & Girls Club or day before yesterday, the Boys & Girls Club tournament over at Monterrey Peninsula Country Club they're like, how long are you going to play in this, because what happens if you don't play in this pro-am and you're not here for the words that night?  I'm like, I hadn't really thought about it.  I would like to play Pebble two or three more years.  I'm really focused on trying to get my game in shape to play this year and try to make the playoffs.
So I hope that when we get to the playoffs, you guys say, how are you doing all this?  You're playing in the playoffs and you're picking a team at the same time and you remember Tom Kite when he was captain, we were trying to get him to pick himself.  So, hopefully we get to that point where I have to talk them out of picking me.
Q. Would you entertain that at all?
DAVIS LOVE, III: Oh, no, I would never be a pick.  No, no way.  I wouldn't mind Tom Lehman making the speeches though and me going and playing.
Q. If you made it on points, would you play?
DAVIS LOVE, III: If I was healthy I would probably play.  Yeah.  Darren says he won't, but I told him I'm more selfish than that.  I might play.  I get the uniform either way, so.  I might play a practice round.
Q. I think can you do that anyway, can't you?
DAVIS LOVE, III: Yeah, Jack did.  That was the best the first one.  Remember that.  And we were playing and Jack Nicklaus was playing.  It was great.
So, yeah, well, I got to play -- Freddie sent me out to play at Memorial with Tiger and Kuchar and them -- and Dufner -- and I topped one off the first, the second hole was my first hole and I topped it and they go, oh, great.  Then I out drove them on a few holes and made up for it.  It's fun to get out there with them.  So I think I'll be too busy at Hazeltine to play a practice round though.
Q. One last thing, there's a rule about only the captain can give advice to the players.  Have you ever entertained maybe changing that because you got four or five assistant captains, they're all following groups, why wouldn't they be able to participate in that?
DAVIS LOVE, III: The way the Presidents Cup does it is you can hand it off.  And we talked about it over there, it's like, I wish we couldn't do that, because they gave it to me and then I try to give it back and nobody would take it back.  And so we were trying to avoid having it, because you wanted Jay to have it.  But like one hole Jay said, all right, Davis, you got it.  Go back and tell the guys on 2 to do such and such.
Then you get it for a while and then you start giving advice and/or you're on a par three and you kind of get stuck with it for awhile.  It's unwieldy to trade it around between five or six people.  But it is nice to be able to say, all right, Davis is going to the media room to do the parings, now Tiger has it.  Tiger's the captain.
It would be nice.  But it is, it's a tough thing on the rules though.  It's very tricky.  Because you don't really know, there's a lot of people out there and all of a sudden Jim Furyk is giving advice and then 30 minutes later Steve Stricker is giving advice and it can -- it's a little unwieldy.  But, yeah, I would like to be able to pass it around.  But now that we have -- if it was one assistant or two, or maybe like at the Presidents Cup, there's not as many, but if we had five assistants and a captain, it could get a little bit messy.
Q. But that begs the question, why couldn't all the assistants give advice?
DAVIS LOVE, III: You could.  You could.  And if one -- basically one guy's going to be with each group, so it would be -- but that's a Rules of Golf question.  I'm not very good on Rules of Golf.
JULIUS MASON: So, Alex, when we get back, we'll make sure to send you the Captain's Agreement and you can go over that with your lawyers.
DAVIS LOVE, III: It's very entertaining.
JULIUS MASON: Golf Writers Association of America recognized Davis Love with the ASAP Sports/Jim Murray Award, so, congratulations, on receiving that, Davis, and in honor of that award, Davis is going to do one-on-one interviews with everybody in the room, an hour long each.  Thank you very much for joining us, ladies and gentlemen.
DAVIS LOVE, III: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT