THE RSM CLASSIC
November 22, 2015
Davis Love III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. We're her with the host, Davis Love, III.  Big smile on your face.  We were just talking about your relationship with RSM and also the community here.  How would you sure success here this week?
DAVIS LOVE III: Well, it's been an incredible week.  We get better every rear.  RSM really grabbed a hold of a couple of our programs and made us double our charity dollars this year that they did last year.
Just been an unbelievable week, and thank all the pros for coming and playing.
Q. Where do you go from here after having such a successful run here the first few goes at it?
DAVIS LOVE III: Just keep trying to get little things better.  I remember Tim Finchem saying every year you'll figure out something that you didn't do right and you'll make it better the next year.
We'll figure out a few things like that.  RSM keeps pushing us to be better.  This week just seems like it's one of the favorites of the guys on tour.  If we can do anything better we will, and keep inviting them back and giving them southern hospitality.
Q. To see Kisner, 6-up you go, Man, that's some serious playing.  You see him playing for you in Hazeltine perhaps in about ten months?
DAVIS LOVE III: If he keeps this up he's going to make a whole bunch of points.  He keeps playing well every week.  He's working really hard.  I see him a lot in the gym and on the range.  He's dialed in right now.
Hopefully he'll start right back off in Hawaii and start making a bunch of (indiscernible).
Q. Wearing a lot of hats this week:  Host, Ryder Cup captain, and also a player.  And a dad, by the way, with your son, Dru, the first couple days.  Thank you very much for a great week, Davis.
DAVIS LOVE III: Thank you.  Chandler did a great job for us again.  It was a heck of a week.
Q. Almost done.
DAVIS LOVE III: Yeah.  Give out trophy.  Still have a few things to wrap up in the next few days.  Best thing is now I get to go see my mom.  I get the tournament out of the way.  They'll clean up this mess and I can go see my mom.
Q. You mentioned going to see your mom.  This week is not just about the golf, it's about family, too, isn't it?
DAVIS LOVE III: Yeah, we had a great family week.  Even though my mom had a stroke before the tournament, we had a great family week with Dru playing and grandbaby getting her first watching of her grandpa on the golf course.
It's been fun.  Our family really pulls together for this event, and I really appreciate all the hard work my brother does.  I don't do hard work; I just play golf.  Our whole team, our whole foundation does a great job this week.
Q. While you were out there competing today, did you have a chance to look at the scoreboard?  Are you amazed at what Kevin Kisner is doing right now?
DAVIS LOVE III: I am not amazed.  He's been playing great for so long.  And I could see is in his eyes in the gym this morning when he was getting ready.  He was ready to go and he wasn't going to let this one get away from him.
I'm happy for him.  He's played a lot of good golf over the last year or two, and nice to see him get a win.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT