RENO-TAHOE OPEN
August 2, 2013
Davis Love III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You finished in beautiful fashion.   Before this week started, you said it's a lot of fun to play here.   Tell me about the shot on 18.   First of all, what did you have, and it's playing downhill, high altitude, how far was your drive and what did you have in?  
DAVIS LOVE:   The drive was a long way.   I don't know how far.   Actually, kind of throw the yardages out the window a little bit here.   But we're figuring it's 30 yards downhill with the downhill and the altitude and then the wind, take about 30 yards off.   So I was down to hitting a 6‑iron.   We figured we had adjusted to 180 front from like 230 front or something like that.  
So it's just crazy.   I heard Gary Woodland hit a 5‑iron into 8 yesterday, but it was probably from 230.   You just never know how far they're going.   But it's fun to play here.   
I did pretty well at International with the adjustments and trying to guess clubs and I'm getting the hang of it.   This is only my third round around here, and I'm getting the hang of it too.  
   
 Q.   Just like that, get an eagle and five points on the, 12 points on the day.   
DAVIS LOVE:   That gets you to sleep in tomorrow.   I was right there when I made the turn, I wasn't in great shape.   But you have to be patient in this format.   All it takes is one little spurt and you're right into the middle of the golf tournament, come out tomorrow and make another eagle, I'm right in it.  
   
 Q.   Getting ready for the PGA Championship next week.   You learned you'll be playing the first couple of days with Keegan Bradley and Tiger Woods; how exciting is that?  
DAVIS LOVE:   It's good.   I'm glad I'm starting to drive it farther.   Playing with Keegan, he's been bombing it.   It's going to be fun.   
They're two of my good buddies, had a great time at the Ryder Cup last year with Keegan getting to know him better.   I love playing with Tiger.   
You'd rather be in his bubble than ahead or behind it.   It's nice to be right in there with him.   And obviously I'll see those guys at the Presidents Cup, too.   So we'll be having a fun time the first two days at the PGA.   
   
 Q.   After sort of a slow start for you yesterday, this is a little bit more of what we expect from you in this format?  
DAVIS LOVE:   Yeah, I got off to a slow start really both days.   I had some bad holes.   But I'm hitting the ball really well.   I just kept saying you've gotta be patient.  
It's tricky.   Mike was talking about driving it way down there, Gary Woodland and I not making birdies on par 5s because the greens are tricky.   It's not a give‑away on the par 5s.   
There's some easy par 4s where you should get the ball close to the hole.   But in two, it's hard to get the ball close on the par 5s.   And I'm being patient with it, and I'm enjoying‑‑ driving the ball really well.   If I can just make a few putts I can make some points.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT