FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
June 7, 2013
Davis Love III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Thank you.   Here with Davis Love, III.   Davis, this was a day when one guy seemed to go really low, but this golf course is still very difficult.   Tell me about how you were able to manage it today.  
DAVIS LOVE, III:   I didn't manage it as well as I would have liked.   It looked easy, but Harris's score.   If you miss the fairways, you're going to pay the price.   I think that was the thing.   
I got lucky at No. 9 and hit a great shot out of the rough, made a birdie.   Usually if you hit it in the rough, you're looking at just trying to get it somewhere around the green and not make a big number.   I made a 6 on 17.   Other than that I really scrambled around pretty good.  
   
 Q.   Overall, you were right in the mix here last year as well.   What have you learned over your time playing this golf course that will help you this weekend?  
DAVIS LOVE, III:   You have to be patient.   You can't worry, 1-over.   That's not really that bad a score.   You can't just force it, I think is the biggest thing.   A lot like Harbor Town or Colonial.   You have to be a little bit patient off the tee, hit it in the fairway.   I had a lot of 9-irons and wedges, you can get in the fairway.   If you miss the fairway, it's hard to hit the ball with any club.   Patience is the key.  
   
 Q.   You feel good here, though, right, even through Harbor Town?  
DAVIS LOVE, III:   I enjoy playing with Dustin.   Long hitters who are hitting 3 and 4-irons and 3-woods off the tees.   Just trying to get it into play.   Unfortunately, I didn't do that quite enough the last two days, but apparently Harris is in the fairway on every hole and putting well and that's the two keys is you drive it straight and putt well, this course will give you a few birdies.  
   
 Q.   Davis, you took advantage of some of the tougher holes to at least post that 70 today including the exclamation point there at 9.  
DAVIS LOVE, III:   9 was a little bit lucky.   I got some bad breaks out there today.   Hit it in a couple bad lies in the bunkers.   Couple of fairways I hit it in divots.   But I got lucky there on 18 -- or 9, my last hole.   
Being in the rough, I went from trying to make a birdie to try to just get it somewhere on the green and slammed it in the hole.   So, that was lucky, but, you know, breaks even out.   I didn't get really lucky until the last hole, so I'm happy to get in at even par today.  
   
 Q.   You've seen this golf course down the stretch on the weekend.   Outside of what Harris is doing, it's probably the most bunched tournament I can remember in a long time.   What does it mean with so many guys in contention going into the weekend?  
DAVIS LOVE, III:   Drew and I left here last year, my son walking through the parking lot saying, "We should have won the golf tournament."   
I said, "How many guys do you think are saying we should have won?"   
He said, "About 8, 9."  
It just bunches up.   You can't get going that great.   You can't make a lot of birdies in a row.   You can't avoid a mistake.   He's already 10-under, but I don't think scores other than his are going to be very low.  
   
 Q.   Did you get anything for low medalist honors with DJ out there?  
DAVIS LOVE, III:   Maybe they'll listen to me at the Presidents Cup when Freddie gets me there.   We had a fun group.   Brandt got some bad breaks as well and ended up missing the cut.   It was a good pairing.   I was hoping Dustin would make the putt on the last hole so I could play with him one more day.   Maybe we'll play Sunday.  
   
 Q.   Kind of an up-and-down day.   Great way to finish.   Stick it on your 18th and make birdie.  
DAVIS LOVE, III:   I got a good break on the last hole.   I got a couple bad breaks out there -- in divots in the fairway and bad lies in the bunkers and hit bad bunker shots.   Threw away some shots.   It was nice to get a break on the last hole.   
I was hoping for a par.   I got a birdie.   That was -- probably saved me at least a stroke, maybe a stroke and a half on the last hole.   Good way to finish.   Scores are not going to be as low today except for Harris.   I think a little bit faster greens and little bit more windy.   Playing kind of tricky.  
   
 Q.   Speaking of that, when you look up as you finish up, are you surprised at how Harris has been able to go so low today?  
DAVIS LOVE, III:   If he's in the fairways he's such a long hitter and great iron playing.   He's one of our local island residents.   I keep track of him.   His game has really improved and he's playing well and he's not afraid to shoot low scores.   
We see that out of him a lot of the last couples years.   When he gets going, he's not afraid to keep it going.   Tough to hit the fairways.   I missed a few fairways, DJ missed a few fairways, and that's what kept us from being 6, 8-under.  
   
 Q.   You got 36 holes down now.   Now, as they say, it's time to close on Saturday.  
DAVIS LOVE, III:   It's moving day.   You can move in either direction.   I think if you don't have patience here, you're going to move in the wrong direction.   You never know what's going to end up winning the tournament.   Harris could go for 20 or he could stall at 10.   We've seen it happen in the last year and scores were not extremely low.   
So, it plays tougher as the week goes on.   We know that.   It's a lot of patience the rest of the weekend.  
   
 Q.   The situation on the last hole there, that was when the officials came out?  
DAVIS LOVE, III:   I tore the cup up.   They had to fix it.   We're not allowed to fix it.  
   
 Q.   The belly putter deal, Freddie still uses it.   Do you practice at all --  
DAVIS LOVE, III:   I don't.   I tried it a few times.   I tried a longer one like Cabrera sticking out but not anchored at the end of the last year.   I just don't seem to get any better.   That's kind of -- one of the arguments that people make is it's not automatic. Not everybody is doing it, but it just didn't work for me.   I went back to work on the same old things that I always work on and getting better.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT