THE MCGLADREY CLASSIC
October 19, 2012
Davis Love III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Thank you, Davis Love III.   You have a new putter, and I want you to tell me about that, but obviously you used it to great effect on this day to get yourself on the top of the leaderboard.
DAVIS LOVE III:   Yeah.   I made a few.   I missed a few as well, but yeah, I've been messing around with this putter for well over a year.   I just haven't had the nerve to put it in play.

Q.   So why did you?
DAVIS LOVE III:   Well, when I got home ‑‑ I've had it with me.   I had it at Medinah a couple days putting.   I've had it on the practice green a lot. 
But I had two pro‑ams this week.   So I said this is the best time, my home greens, two pro‑ams where I have to keep score.   So I tried it out and the first day I used it I made eight birdies.   So it worked.
My brother's been trying to convince me to try something completely different.   Just go completely opposite of what you've been doing.   And it's working.   I feel pretty confident with it, and I'm hitting them more solid and that's the main thing.   I felt like the last couple of weeks I wasn't quite catching them solid.

Q.   Is it really Brian Bateman's belly putter that you're using?
DAVIS LOVE III:   Well, back at our manager's office there's a lot of extra putters.   So my son and I tend to rifle through them all the time. 
My brother went in there and got a long putter, a belly putter, Brian's belly that was short enough, but it wouldn't touch for me, and a couple of other things for me to try after the British Open last year, and this is the only one that I've kept, so I hope Brian's not watching because I stole his putter.

Q.   What are the chances that you can ride this putter and the play that you have to a victory at this event that obviously means so much to you?
DAVIS LOVE III:   Well, I'm hitting the ball real well.   I wouldn't say I've gotten everything out of the way.   I've hit the ball.   But it's my home course and I kind of know my way around it, so hopefully I can keep it going. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT