JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 5, 2012
Davis Love III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Davis Love, if I had told you before this round that you wouldn't have birdied a par‑5 in two days an this golf course, you would've said to me what?  
DAVIS LOVE III:   I would have said you're crazy.   I was counting on 'em.   And I actually drove it pretty good on 'em.   Had one bad drive that cost me today.   I had to layup.   
But I 3‑putt and some missed putts and some bad bounces and I'm not doing too good on the par‑5s.  
The rest of them I'm doing well.   Hopefully this weekend.   
   
 Q.   Tell me about the feeling that you're just a player again and not the captain?  
DAVIS LOVE III:   It's good to get back to playing.   It distracts me for four, five hours a day from thinking about last week.   I've got a lot of great memories from last week, and when I get by myself I start second guessing and start wishing that we would done something a little different and could've gotten those guys a win.  
   
 Q.   How long do you think you'll think like that?  
DAVIS LOVE III:   A long time.   I don't think it'll ever go away.   It was a great team.   They played great.   They had some bad breaks on Sunday and some guys holed some putts on 'em and turned it over.  
You can't take away from a great week, but winning is what it's all about and we didn't win it.   
   
 Q.   (Question regarding Vijay Singh.)  
DAVIS LOVE III:   Well, just the consistency.   He's played at a high level for a long, long time, you know.   He's working hard at it.   He and I were out here putting late yesterday afternoon.   I said isn't it funny that the two oldest guys in the field are out here working on their putting late?   
I think his commitment, dedication, we always tease him that he practices too much.   But he stays committed and does the same things over and over again, and he's been successful.  
I'm most amazed by his dedication.   He never gives up.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT