ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE CHAMPIONSHIP GAME: GEORGIA TECH v FLORIDA STATE
December 1, 2014
Rashad Greene
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You and the other seniors played Georgia Tech in the ACC championship game two years ago.   It was two different halves.   Any particular memories of that game?   Is it also an indication that Georgia Tech is going to be a viable opponent no matter what the situation is?
RASHAD GREENE:   Paying attention to how they've been playing this year, these last few weeks, the last part of the season, they've been playing good football on both sides of the ball.   They've been controlling the clock and the tempo of the game offensively.   Defensively they've been holding teams, getting stops, making big plays on defense. 
They're well‑coached.   They have a lot of great athletes on their team. 

Q.   Do you have any particular memories of playing them two years ago?   Was that a big night for y'all, especially the seniors who were sophomores at that point?
RASHAD GREENE:   Yeah, I remember the game.   It was definitely a big game for us.   That was the first ACC championship we had won in a while, so it was definitely big for us. 

Q.   I know you're from the state of Georgia.   When you were growing up, who did you root for, Georgia Tech or Georgia? 
RASHAD GREENE:   Neither.   I wasn't a fan of either Georgia Tech or Georgia.   Growing up as a kid, I was a Miami fan and University of Florida fan.   It was either one. 

Q.   When you were growing up being a wide receiver, who did you idolize?   Cris Carter?   You're wearing No.80. 
RASHAD GREENE:   No, I didn't idolize him.   I watched guys like Randy Moss, players like that.   Peter Warrick during his time.   Those are two guys I watched the most. 

Q.   If you think back the last few weeks, do you think there are any factors behind your sluggish starts against quality competition, two or three things that have caused you to fall behind?
RASHAD GREENE:   We just got to come out and just play football at the end of the day, man.   Everybody's going to prepare for us.   Everybody's going to bring their A game.   At the end of the day we have to realize that, try to get things going faster. 
I'm not disappointed in my team at all.   We find a way to win.   We have each other's back.   At the end of the day, what more can you ask for? 

Q.   Has Jimbo or the coaching staff mentioned it during the week, or are they just happy with the final results?
RASHAD GREENE:   At the end of the day it's about playing a complete football game.   That's what Jimbo stresses.   Just play 60 minutes of football, give it your all, man. 
We're getting better.   At the end of the day we are still continuously winning.   That's the main thing we're trying to do, is win football games, just try to play as good as possible. 

Q.   Why do you think it is that this team has had trouble getting going, maybe not as good in the first half as the second half?   What do you think the reason for that is?
RASHAD GREENE:   I feel like we practice good habits.   We put ourselves in different situations in practice.   We're prepared for all types of scenarios.   I just feel like we're prepared for it.   We're trained to respond to any type of adversity. 

Q.   Why do you think it is that the first half is maybe not as much of a strong suit for Florida State as the second half?
RASHAD GREENE:   I'm not sure.   I can't pinpoint it.   At the end of the day we have to continue to try to get better and do a better job at doing that. 

Q.   Yesterday I talked to Jimbo about 14 of Jameis' 17 interceptions have come in the first half.   He said maybe Jameis' play, when he's playing better in the second half, it helps the offense play better.   As a wide receiver, when he's playing his game, does it help you guys?   Does that change maybe the way the offense plays, too?
RASHAD GREENE:   Most definitely.   When our quarterback is definitely having a good game, making good reads, throwing the ball well, it definitely has an effect on the receivers. 
At the end of the day, when he's struggling, we're doing our best to pick him up, just try to get something going. 

Q.   What is the difference you've seen in him from the first half or second half?   Or is it a mix between him and the receivers?
RASHAD GREENE:   When he's struggling, he always keeps his head in the game, bounces back from it.   He shows strong leadership, has a great head on his shoulders.   He continuously moves on and plays the play. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT