CIMB CLASSIC
October 27, 2013
Rashid Ismail
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Just talk about your round today and sum up the week for us.   
RASHID ISMAIL:   The round was okay, except that after the delay I lost my focus actually, so bogeyed the last five.   Overall for this event I'm not so happy because a lot of shots that I wanted to do, I can't.   So maybe after I heal fully maybe.   Next year I try to play better.  
   
 Q.   If you had a chance to re‑hit one shot this week, which shot would that be?  
RASHID ISMAIL:   It would be hole No.9 yesterday.   If I can re‑drive that hole, that would be perfect.   
   
 Q.   You've been struggling with injuries this year.   
RASHID ISMAIL:   Uh‑huh.  
   
 Q.   How has the injury been for you, and what are you looking forward to in the next month or so maybe next year?  
RASHID ISMAIL:   Honestly, I just don't feel like to play tournaments this year anymore after this.   But basically I can't.   I've got one event here and one more last one, so I figure out how to do it, but obviously it's not my real golfer.   I can play better than this, obviously.  
   
 Q.   What have you learned about yourself this week?  
RASHID ISMAIL:   I learned to stay patient, I guess, which I don't have.   On the golf course it reflects my score yesterday.   I was okay until the last few holes, I just blow four or five shots because I'm not accepting the results.   So then come back home, I think I'm stupid now because I think the shot really hurts me, of course I will make mistakes, and I saw players playing with me the first two days, they are very cool when they would make a silly mistake.   They would keep cool, keep focusing, and get a few birdies back.  
   
 Q.   The first day was so good, and then where you ended up‑‑  
RASHID ISMAIL:   Yeah.   I know I can play a lot under par, but my target is to play below 75 every day if possible, maybe shoot 1‑under, 2‑under a round and I'd be happy.   But I feel like even to make it today, I set myself to shoot at least 1‑under par.   It's actually almost there until the last holes, and then I continue, I blow up all the last five holes.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT