CHILDREN'S MIRACLE NETWORK HOSPITALS CLASSIC
October 22, 2011
Tom Pernice, Jr.
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Tom, you got it going out there and a little tough finish, but a nice way to finish it, especially with that lengthy birdie putt at 18?  
 TOM PERNICE, JR.: That was a big surprise. I pushed my 5-iron over there and I was trying to stay right of the pin a little bit, but I pushed it and wanted to putt back up the hill and had a 60-footer and it happened to go in.   
 Yeah, I was playing good. Some of the shorter holes there I had a stretch where I took advantage of them and had some good opportunities for them, and did. And just hit a few loose tee shots coming in really. I mean the loose tee shot on 17 obviously was the big one. Just didn't trust a little bit and came out of it.  
  
  Q. How was it out there playing with Luke and Webb as they're battling for No. 1 on the Money List?  
 TOM PERNICE, JR.: You know, I thought it was great. They're both pretty relaxed and they're both playing well, and it's always nice to be out there and be somewhat in the mix a little bit. I enjoyed it, Webb's a close friend of mine and just couldn't be happier for a guy that's had a year as great as his.   
 So it was nice. I don't know Luke real well, but just a little bit, but it was very enjoyable, and they're playing well, and I think they're enjoying the challenge.   
  
  Q. I know how competitive you are. You're playing a lot of golf on the Champions Tour. You're trying to play out here on the regular tour as much as you can. How much would it mean for you to go ahead and have a good finish tomorrow and get yourself exempt on the regular TOUR, too?  
 TOM PERNICE, JR.: Well, you know, that's what I've been trying to do here in the fall. If I could just play good enough and have some good weeks, you know, that might happen. I'm not stressed about it. I'd like to put myself there to have a good week and I've got it there, so we'll go out tomorrow and try to stay relaxed and see what happens.  
  
  Q. Well played so far. Good luck tomorrow.  
 TOM PERNICE, JR.: Thanks. Appreciate it.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT