THE SENIOR OPEN PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 27, 2018
Tom Pernice, Jr.
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Thanks for your time, Tom.  How enjoyable has it been to play in sunny St. Andrews on a links course?
TOM PERNICE, JR.: Well, it's always a pleasure for us to come and play links golf, and to play it firm and fast is a treat.  So we've gotten a little bit of taste of the wind and this morning we've had some fog, so we've had a little bit of everything, and looks like we've got some rain coming for the weekend.  So it's always a treat for us.
Q. How important was it for you to get off to a good start today?
TOM PERNICE, JR.: Well, with the direction of the wind it's always important to get some going out because it's pretty tough coming back in with the wind coming out of the southeast.  So it was important to hit some good quality shots and to capitalize and make some putts.
Q. And how good would you say your round was today?
TOM PERNICE, JR.: Well, it was really good on the front.  Back nine was okay.  I mean I made all pars and one bogey on 13.  I drove it in the bunker and had to chip out, fairway bunker.  You're trying to stay out of those fairway bunkers as much as you can.  But hit a bad tee shot and ended up in one.  So never unhappy with 4-under around here.
Q. And it must be nice to be in the mix going into the weekend in a major championship.
TOM PERNICE, JR.: Yeah, of course.  Yeah.  It's nice to be playing well, and like I said, I hit a lot of good quality shots today and had some chances, and I feel good about the game.
Q. How good do you feel about your position going into the weekend and especially considering perhaps you might have gotten the better end of the draw depending on the weather?
TOM PERNICE, JR.: Yeah, you never know here.  It's supposed to blow a little bit and maybe rain, but it doesn't look like it now.  Yesterday was pretty breezy, and today we had a slight pretty steady breeze, probably 10 or so, 12 miles an hour.  So it's always good to get off to a good start.  Scores don't look to be going too low so far today.  6-under is not in bad shape, so I'm very happy with the opportunity on the weekend.
Q. How good do you feel about your game if it does in fact rain?
TOM PERNICE, JR.: Well, we're going to play in the rain on Saturday and Sunday anyway.  That's the way it is.  You kind of expect that possibility over here.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT