THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY MORGAN STANLEY
June 4, 2010
Tom Pernice, Jr.
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Nice round today. What did you learn yesterday that made things a little more easier today? Not that yesterday was bad at all?   
 TOM PERNICE, JR.: I hit the ball closer to the hole today. Hit a bunch between three and six feet and happened to make a lot of them. I started off that way yesterday and just didn't make any putts.   
 Today I hit some really good quality iron shots and made the putts.   
  
  Q. First time we've really had a someone that's come through with as much success as you. What can you say about the course, how it may have changed in 24 hours?   
 TOM PERNICE, JR.: The greens are obviously a lot faster. They may have been this fast yesterday morning as well. They'll slow down during the course of the day. Being the first group out, they were extremely fast today. And the winds picked up the last seven holes.   
  
  Q. How do you think that fares for the later groups today?   
 TOM PERNICE, JR.: Well, if the wind stays up, obviously, that makes it a little more difficult. You know, the course is still soft and receptive. So there's still a good opportunity for some low scoring out there. We'll see some low scores.   
  
  Q. What do you think is going to win this tournament? How low can it go?   
 TOM PERNICE, JR.: If it stays soft. You're going to have low slows. The fairway quality is so good. The fairways are receptive. The greens are receptive. If we don't get more rain and as it dries out, it could get a little more difficult. But the guys are good out here. Like the logo says, if the wind doesn't blow and the conditions are soft, somebody's going to shoot low.   
  
  Q. I was talking to you the other day about staying out here and competing on the PGA Tour rather than the Champions. A day like today, I would think, continues to validate your competitiveness and decision.   
 TOM PERNICE, JR.: I've always said I'm competitive out here. The ball doesn't know how old you are. As long as I can keep it in close and make some putts and post the scores, I'm going to try to stay out here and see what I can do.   
  
  Q. How big a deal is fitness as you get up there age- wise? Has that ever been an issue with you?   
 TOM PERNICE, JR.: I work out quite a bit. Obviously, I could be more fit and more strong. Through my workouts, I've stayed healthy. Haven't had any major medical problems. So that's an asset.   
 It can't hurt you. Let's put it that way.   
     
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT