FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
January 28, 2010
Tom Pernice, Jr.
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Good start, 6-under 66, nice birdie on the last hole. 
 TOM PERNICE: Yeah, I kind of left it above the hole and had about a 12-footer downhill that was kind of slippery, so it was nice for that to go in. I made six birdies, no bogeys, so really pleased. I drove the ball I think in the fairway all but two holes, so gave myself a lot of opportunities.

 Q. Off the Senior Tour for how long? What's your schedule like?
 TOM PERNICE: I don't know. I'm trying to stay out here, that's my goal. As much as I can get out here and play, my status being 126 to 150, as much as I can get in, I can, trying to get a few sponsor exemptions as I can. They gave me a spot here, so that was great. So trying to make the most of it when I get my opportunities out here.

 Q. And you knew playing the North Course today you had to post a pretty good number?
 TOM PERNICE: Well, I've been here for 20 years. You always need to post a good score on the North Course. It is playing quite a bit longer than it used to with the rain that we've had and continue to have. You still have to play pretty well. You've got to get them here because there's not a lot over there on the South.

 Q. Course conditions for you today?
 TOM PERNICE: It's still a little wet, but the greens were very good, course played nice I thought for all the rain they've had. I thought it was very good.

 Q. Is it surprising for a guy in your position to choose to go to Q-school?
 TOM PERNICE: You know, if you want to play on the PGA TOUR, you do what you have to do. That's what my feeling was. I wanted to stay out here and play on the PGA TOUR, so I had no problem sending in my application to go get it. Pretty much had it done and had a little falter there at the end, but just try to get ready when I get the opportunities out here this year and see what I can do. 

 Q. How many tournaments can you reasonably expect to get in with your status?
 TOM PERNICE: You know, it's hard to tell, but you can get in 12 to 20. Depends upon how things fall. I mean, you just don't know. Like the West Coast is a little different here. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT