STANFORD ST. JUDE CHAMPIONSHIP
June 8, 2008
Tom Pernice, Jr.
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You made the birdie on 18 there?
 TOM PERNICE, JR.: I had two good looks at it at 17 and 18. You never know with this kind of golf course and this wind. I hit two pretty good putts at 17 and 18 straight downhill. I didn't dream I would leave it short, but it was right in the gut.

 Q. Did you think you would have that kind of round?
 TOM PERNICE, JR.: You never know. Sometimes those are your best rounds when you bogey 1. Being that far back, you never know. I don't expect a good round to come, maybe but they pop up.

 Q. Expect for last year you missed the cut, had a nice little streak working this, second a couple years ago.
 TOM PERNICE, JR.: Since the changes here, they've done a great job with the Tour and the superintendents giving the greens better cut and more receptive. The whole golf course is a pleasure, really enjoying the challenge.

 Q. What's going through your mind as you're ripping those birdies off there? Were you aware that you could be close to the course record or trying to get the best score possible?
 TOM PERNICE, JR.: They start falling in. I made a long one on No. 8. Thought this might be my day. Go after it. I did. I played well.

 Q. Do you ever anticipate that anything like this is coming? You know you're capable. 
 TOM PERNICE, JR.: You never know. You make two long putts here and there, it's all about momentum and, you know, gives you the feeling that this could be your day and go ahead and let it relax and go after it. I did that today. I played well.

 Q. The same routine you usually keep when you come to Memphis as far as where you stay?
 TOM PERNICE, JR.: I usually stay at Memphis Country Club, but reservations got messed up over there this year. So I just stayed at a hotel here. Lot of friends over there.

 Q. Same date next year right before the open.
 TOM PERNICE, JR.: You know, I don't know if it's the greatest date, but I think the players, they got a good field here. Sergio, Davis Love, Vijay, Padraig Harrington. You've got top of notch players coming here. They've got a great field here. I don't think any tournament the week before a Major is a great, great date, but it says a lot for the people here and St. Jude's Hospital and how important it is to get the top notch players they're getting. They do a great job here.

 Q. What about your daughter as a singer?
 TOM PERNICE, JR.: I'm trying to catch a plane. She's singing the national anthem at Dodger Stadium tonight.

 Q. Has she done that before?
 TOM PERNICE, JR.: Padres on Wednesday. She's got her own CD out, and got her own website. Brooke with an "e."

 Q. How old is she?
 TOM PERNICE, JR.: She's 13.

 Q. You're kidding.
 TOM PERNICE, JR.: No. Pretty special.

 Q. Is she the one with the spine -- any improvement on that or anything with her spine?
 TOM PERNICE, JR.: Not much improvement. There's some great stuff going on with gene therapy right now. Her particular gene, they are doing some testing over in Europe, have some great results. Possibly, yes.

 Q. How does a round like this fire you into the next tournament, or does it?
 TOM PERNICE, JR.: I got a week off. I lost in a playoff to go to the Open, which is back home in San Diego, which is disappointing. It's been a struggle here the last month and a half, really. And I've been playing pretty steady, and I really hadn't played well all year, and I had a good putting day today, so it was pretty nice. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT