FBR OPEN
February 1, 2007
Tom Pernice, Jr.
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Can you just talk about the round today and how you played personally? 
 TOM PERNICE, JR.:  You know, I played a pretty solid round altogether.  I had a few key up-and-ins kind of early in the day that kind of kept the round going.  I had a nice up-and-in on the 2nd hole for par, made about a six-footer that kind of kept me going.  I had a good chance for a birdie at 3 and missed it, but then I came back on the 4th hole, the par 3, and made a birdie and had to get up-and-down on 5 and made about a 12-footer. 
 That kind of kept me going.  I hit it close on 6, and I was kind of on my way, and from there I played pretty solid really, everything was pretty much in front of me.  I hit a bad iron shot on 11, but I got up-and-down. 
 I played good coming in, had a good chance at 16 and 18 and let them slip away, another one at 14, but everybody can say that.  No, I'm thrilled.  It's been a little bit of a struggle so far, but I've been working hard.  I freed it up a little bit today and things turned around. 

 Q.  You had a pretty nice pairing today, Villegas being a crowd favorite out here on the Tour.  Just your thoughts about playing with him today. 
 TOM PERNICE, JR.:  Well, I had a great pairing.  Camilo is a great person to be out with and Pat Perez is a local boy here and a good friend of mine.  He's always entertaining out there.  Camilo and I were going to have fun with Pat.  We wore these bright sweaters just to give Pat a little grief.  No, the pairing was great, and it turned out to be a great day.  The weather really turned out good the last few holes.  It's warmed up quite a bit. 

 Q.  How has the rain affected the course? 
 TOM PERNICE, JR.:  Well, obviously it's softened the greens and it's also softened the fairways a little bit, so when that happens out here, usually you're going to get some better scoring. 

 Q.  Does that make it more competitive? 
 TOM PERNICE, JR.:  I don't know if it makes it more competitive.  I think it makes the scoring a little bit lower.  You know, I don't know that it's more competitive.  I just think that the opportunities for lower scores are definitely there when the greens are holding.  It can get pretty tough around here when the greens get pretty firm and a little bit of wind.  The greens are pretty soft right now, and there's no wind really to speak of.  We had a little bit in the middle of the day, but it's nice now. 

 Q.  So maybe competitive is not the right word, but does it give more guys a chance maybe is the word? 
 TOM PERNICE, JR.:  Yeah, I guess so.  When the conditions are easier, I guess that's what they pretty much relate to.  I think.  It's in the best shape I've seen it in a long time.  It's a little unfortunate we got the rain on Wednesday, but you can't control Mother Nature, and it looks like we've got good weather the rest of the week, so you can't complain.  It's in beautiful condition. 

 Q.  What about 16? 
 TOM PERNICE, JR.:  Well, it's 16.  It's great.  It gets bigger and bigger every year.  We come here and we know what to expect.  People for the most part are pretty courteous, and it's exciting to play in front of a lot of people.  You know, it's pretty much one of the most famous spots probably in sports around the world, and it's something that the Thunderbirds and FBR should be proud of. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT