CANADIAN OPEN
September 8, 2006
Tom Pernice, Jr.
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TODD BUDNICK:  We welcome Tom Pernice, Jr. after two rounds of 66, 68, second round of the Canadian Open.  A very nice start, Tom, on a difficult course.

TOM PERNICE,JR.:  Yeah, not getting any easier out there with the wind blowing.  Wasn't quite this windy this morning.  But around our 7th or 8th hole, it picked up pretty good.  It's been pretty steady.
TODD BUDNICK:  This has been a career year you could maybe say for yourself.  No win yet, but you've matched your career high top tens with five and made more money this year than at any other time in your 15 years on TOUR.

TOM PERNICE, JR.:  Yeah, it's been a good year.  Obviously you want to win.  That's what you strive for.

You know, I've had a lot of good weeks.  I feel good about my game.  Got myself in good position at least for the weekend here.
TODD BUDNICK:  Talk a little bit about today.  You started with three birdies in your first five holes.

TOM PERNICE, JR.:  Yeah, just hit it in there close at the 1st hole at about, I don't know, 10 or 12 feet, made the putt.  I was off to a good start.  Hit another good shot in at 3 from about, oh, eight or nine feet and just lipped it on the high side.  Hit it on the green in two, 2 putted on 4, the par 5.  Then 6, I hit a wedge in there about eight feet and made it.

I was off and going to a good start.

Then played pretty solid there for a while, too.  The next hole, a long par 3, a good shot, 2 putt.  Where do we go here?  8, hit a good shot in there about 20 feet, had a good shot at it, just misread it.  9, hit two good shots, misread it.  Hit the high lip and spun out.  Hit a little 9 iron on No. 10, two or three feet.  I was off and running pretty good.

Then just had a little bit of misfortune at 13.  Hit a good shot in.  It came up short in a little valley there, short right.  Hit a good pitch.  Almost went in.  Rolled by about three and a half feet.  I missed my putt from just above the hole.  Rolled by about four feet, missed it.

The double kind of derailed me a bit, if you will.  I was going pretty good.  Lucky enough to birdie the next hole.  Hit two good shots about 12 feet, made it.  Hit a bad pitch at 17.  Had a good chance for birdie.  Made par.  Then 18, just off the edge of the green, made bogey.  So that's a little disappointing.

You know, all in all, played pretty nice.
TODD BUDNICK:  We'll take some questions.
Q.  Today do you get the sense that 68 is a score that will hold up quite nicely, make up some ground?

TOM PERNICE, JR.:  Yeah, I mean, you know, Jim is still out there.  Jim is playing pretty well.  He's starting at 7.  You are going to think that Jim is going to shoot under par.  You never know in conditions like this.

No, I'm thrilled with the position I'm in.  The rounds right out there.  Quigley just shot 7 under.  If you keep the ball in play, make some putts, it's doable.  That's what's great about Hamilton Golf Club.  It's fair.  It's right in front of you.  If you keep the ball below the hole, give yourself some good opportunities.  You have to be careful when you get above the holes, get some downwind, downhill putts.  It can be a little tricky.
Q.  Tom, you played well here last time.  You were third in '03.  You always play well at Westchester.  Can you talk about the similarities between the two golf courses and why play so well on them?

TOM PERNICE, JR.:  Well, I just like old classical style golf courses, if you will.  It's straightforward, it's right in front of you.  A lot of the holes you have opportunities to run the ball up old classic style.  The greens are built on grade pretty much.  Just a lot of great qualities that the old time architects seem to have and do so well.

It's a beautiful golf course, really.
Q.  You had your best year in terms of top 10 finishes I believe.  Can you talk about how close you are to winning again.  Did you feel frustrated you haven't when you've had that many top tens or do you feel you're getting ready to win again?

TOM PERNICE, JR.:  No, I'm not frustrated.  I had a good chance at St. Jude in Memphis this year, playing in the last group.  Just didn't do    I shot even par I think or 1 Over.  That's not going to get it done.  I made a run at them at Westchester.  Shot low the Front 9 on Sunday sudden, had myself in position, and made a couple bogeys.

You have to keep getting there.  I figure sooner or later the door will knock down.  Feel good about my game.  Tim Hardy has really helped my golf swing.  James Seekman (ph) has worked on my short game.

I chipped in a couple times yesterday.  I feel like everything is pretty good.  Once again, I've got myself in position.  So just a matter of going out and seeing how I can get it done.
Q.  Following the 3 putt, how important was it for you to come back with a birdie as far as maintaining confidence heading into the weekend?

TOM PERNICE, JR.:  Well, it's always nice to rebound after pretty much a senseless double bogey.  I mean, if you miss the 3  or 4 footer that breaks a little bit, it's okay, you can live with that.

No, it was important.  Kind of got me back on track.  Hit a bunch of good shots after that really.  Good shots at 14.  It hit two good ones at 15.  I hit a good one at 16 and 17.

You know, kind of regained some momentum, if you will.  As soon as you lose momentum, it's important to try to gain it back.  I truly believe it's a game of momentum.  That kind of got me through.
TODD BUDNICK:  Thank you, Tom.

TOM PERNICE, JR.:  Great.  Thank you all.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT