THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 25, 2014
Tom Pernice, Jr.
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What's your taking on shooting what, if I'm not much mistaken, is a joint course record here?
TOM PERNICE, JR.:   Oh, is it?   Well, I'm thrilled, obviously to shoot 64 around here, but you know, we got a break on the weather today.   The wind settled down a little bit and actually started coming back the other direction here the last eight or nine holes, which made some of the holes play a little bit easier, so we got a little break on the weather, but it's nice to be able to take advantage of that and to have a great score.

Q.   You might have caught a break yourself, but you look at all those other scores, there's plenty that are laboring out there.   So you must have played well. 
TOM PERNICE, JR.:   I did play well.   You know, it was unfortunate, I was playing along yesterday pretty well, and I finished with six straight 5s yesterday, so I wasn't in too bad of shape. 
So I just came out today and knew that I was still playing well and had some good opportunities and capitalized and made some putts.
I had one bogey on the card.   I missed the green with a wedge.   I hit it in the bunker and had to chip out sideways, but other than that, I played very nice.

Q.   One of those courses that just meets your eye?   I'm sure you treat it with respect, but you see your opportunities. 
TOM PERNICE, JR.:   Well, yeah you have to respect the golf course and links golf when they're this firm and fast, there's danger right around the corner, so you have to have a strategy and you have to know where the pins are and take your chances when you got the opportunities, and you're going to have to make some 20‑footers from time to time.   So I'm happy to get back into it.   Looks like Langer is the only one out there, Monty is having a good day at 4, 5, so you know, anything can happen around here, so I just got myself back in.   I was happy with the good day.

Q.   What is your take on Bernhard Langer shooting that score over two rounds?
TOM PERNICE, JR.:   Well, you'll see Bernhard on a regular basis, and he's a great man and he's a great player, and I have the utmost respect for him and I always wish him well, he's a good friend of mine.
You know, he's fit, he's got a game plan, he works hard and he gets it done.

Q.   When you see that score and you're just setting out?
TOM PERNICE, JR.:   You can't pay any attention.   I had my own business to take care of today and try and get back in the golf tournament.   I've accomplished that.   So still have two days, so you never know. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT