BARCLAYS CLASSIC
June 11, 2006
Tom Pernice, Jr.
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Talk about your play.  What went well for you?
TOM PERNICE:  Well, I hit the ball in the fairway obviously but I started off on 1, hit a 5 iron in there about six or seven feet to a really tough pin, got a birdie there.  I hit it close at 3 and still had a tough putt and missed it.  But then 4 I hit a beautiful shot in there, made about a 15 footer for birdie.  5, I hit it down in front of the green and chipped it up a couple feet.  6, missed about a 15 footer for birdie, had a good chance, and 7, hit a wedge in there four or five feet behind the hole.  And then the 8th hole I hit a 7 iron a couple inches.  9, I hit two good shots and ended up in the front bunker and hit it out about six inches there.

That was the start that you needed to try to get back into it, and just tried to keep it going a little bit, had a good chance at 10 and missed.  Then I hit a bad drive at 11.  When you miss the fairways here, it can cost you.  I made a bogey there.

A costly three putt on the par 3 obviously.  I was the first to hit on the par 3 and got tricked by the wind and the ball went long.  I hit a beautiful first putt and lagged it down there three and a half feet below the hole right where I wanted and hit a bad putt, pulled it.

17, I probably needed to birdie 17 and 18.  I was a little aggressive with my wedge and I thought the wind would draft it back and it didn't, and it cost me, made a bogey there.  That was really the one that hurt.
Q.  It must have been exciting to be part of such a crowded leaderboard.
TOM PERNICE:  Well, they're all bunched at Westchester.  It's a great classic course, one of my top three or four that we play all year.  It was nice to get back right in the thick of things and get a chance.  There was an outside chance, but I doubt it, there's a lot of guys out there 8 under or 9 under right now.  It's a tough course and the wind is tricky, but overall I'm happy.  Would have liked to have had a couple of those back.
Q.  How were the conditions today compared to yesterday?
TOM PERNICE:  Probably not quite as breezy and a little bit different direction, a little more out of the north as opposed to the northwest, so slightly different but still very tricky.  The greens are maybe getting a little bit better in terms of smoothness, but they're also getting tricky.  I just happened to hit a lot of good iron shots close to the hole, and that made it very fortunate on the front nine.
Q.  Talk about the second shot on 11 and the lie you had there in the rough.
TOM PERNICE:  Well, I had no shot.  We actually were close to being plugged actually.  I took my L wedge out and tried to chunk it out into the fairway, and that's all I could do, really.
Q.  Is there any U.S. Open feel to this place.
TOM PERNICE:  Well, it's a great old classic course, and all classic courses have different characteristics and different intrinsic things about them.  I mean, Westchester has these small little plateaus that they stick the pins on where Winged Foot is probably different with the big rolling greens, but there's similarities in the old style and the feel that you have with the trees and everything.  Different, but in some ways they're very similar.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT