FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
May 26, 2006
Tom Pernice, Jr.
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOE CHEMYCZ:  We welcome Tom Pernice with a round of 68 today, two below par, five under for the tournament with birdies, bogies, doubles, eagle.  Let's talk about limit conditions out there.
TOM PERNICE:  Very similar to yesterday.  Same direction, pretty much same velocity.  Probably played the first two, three holes without much wind.  Very similar to yesterday, very difficult.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  Got off to a real good start with birdies.
TOM PERNICE:  I came out and really hit the ball great.  Had good birdie putts and 10 and 11, made two at 12, 13, beautiful shot at 14.  Played a long two good shot at 16, great shot at 17.  Had it going.  Hit a good shot off the tee at 18, landed out left side of the fairway.  It kicked left instead of right.  Made it longer, so then I had a three putt for a double.  I had a good chance for birdie at 1, hit it in there close and missed.  And then missed at 2 and went over the green.  Kind of got myself back on track on 3 with an eagle and chipped in right in front of the green.  Then missed the green on par 3 and chipped it up, missed about a 6-footer.  Five hit a good drive, then went through the fairway and hit the fairway bunker.  Didn't have a great lie.  Hit a good third shot in about 6 feet again, missed it.  Played very solid, really.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  Questions?
Q.  Tom, can you get used to these conditions, yesterday and today?
TOM PERNICE:  The more you play them, yeah, you're more familiar with them.  You still have to execute the shot and, you know, you're still not a hundred percent sure.  The wind may have been been more westerly than southwesterly yesterday.  It's never exactly the same, but surely the holes play very similar as you continue to play with them.  They blow in the same direction.

You still have to be able to control the golf ball when it's all said and done.
Q.  Can you recall many rounds like this when you were up, down, up, down?
TOM PERNICE:  I didn't feel that I was really up, down, up, down.  I felt like I was playing well.  Really wasn't worried about it.  I felt like I played well all the way around.  The only real disappointment's with the 3-putt at 18 and the two opportunities at par I missed at 4 and 5.  Other than that, I felt like I played pretty well.  It didn't really feel that up and down.

The golf course is playing like a championship golf course.  We've got two inches of rough out there, two and a half inches.  The difference in the golf course with the bermuda and around the edges of the green, it's made all the difference in the world.  6-under was leading after the first round.  It's probably going to be under double digits leading after two rounds.  The course is easily standing up for itself, no question.  So I think they got something on the right track here.
Q.  Tom, as far as the last few years you've played well here, this course (Inaudible).
TOM PERNICE:  Oh, yeah.  I always come here to Memphis.  I have good friends over at Memphis Country Club.  I stay over there and play a lot of golf over there when I'm here.  This is one of my favorites.  The changes obviously make the course even better.  I enjoy it.
Q.  (Inaudible).
TOM PERNICE:  Scott Fisher is a friend of mine.  I met him 15 years ago playing in Pro-Am with Bobby Weaver and little Bobby Hudson, whole bunch of the kids over there.  I just have a great time over there, and they treat me well.  So I'm happy to be here.
Q.  You know the history of this event, David Toms, you expect him to be here at the end of the day?
TOM PERNICE:  I don't have any idea what David did today.  David is one of the top ten players in the world.  So you obviously expect David to be there and playing well.  His record here is very good, as well.
Q.  Is the course suited for your game here?
TOM PERNICE:  I grew up in the Midwest and Kansas City.  Yes, I feel like I can control my ball flight and work it both ways, left to right, right to left.  So, yeah, it doesn't always happen.  I feel I can play in wind nicely, yes.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  Anything else?  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT