CHRYSLER CLASSIC OF GREENSBORO
October 14, 2004
Tom Pernice, Jr.
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








CHRIS REIMER:  We have Tom Pernice, Jr. joining us.  Let's get started.  Bogey-free, 66.  Is that right?
TOM PERNICE, JR.:  That's correct.
CHRIS REIMER:  The entire day, kind of staying consistent and taking what the course would give you?
TOM PERNICE, JR.:  Yeah, we had a beautiful day to play golf.  Greens were soft and no wind.  So if you played well you had some opportunities to get some good scoring.  And I was able to do that.  I think I missed one fairway all day, so I drove the ball quite well and gave myself a lot of opportunities.  I hit some good shots into a lot of the holes.  I had a good round.  I left a couple out there on the par-5, No. 2.  And number 15 the ball was on the green and rolled back down and I didn't get those up-and-down, so I gave myself a lot of opportunities.  That was the main thing.  I hadn't been putting very well.  I have been hitting the ball pretty well over the last month or so and I made a few putts to kind of keep the day going.
CHRIS REIMER:  You didn't have success early on and you came back last year.  Has the course changes helped you or is your game just in better shape?
TOM PERNICE, JR.:  I think my game is in better shape.  I think Davis did a nice job overall.  There's a lot of variety here.  I think he maybe got carried away on a couple of the greens that are maybe a little bit too much contour for my sake.  But obviously he liked them.  That's all right.  But overall there's a nice variety, I think.  And other than a couple of the greens got too much slope in them I think he did a nice job.
CHRIS REIMER:  Take some questions.
Q.  Goals coming out, TOUR Championship?  Masters, do you have anything in particular?
TOM PERNICE, JR.:  Every year I want to win a golf tournament and finish in the top 30 on the money list.  That's pretty much my goal at the beginning of the year.  Every year.  And if I accomplish that, if I win a golf tournament and finish in the top 30, in my opinion, I've had a good year.  That's something that I always strive for and I haven't won in three years now, so I've been working hard and hopefully I've got three weeks left and if one of those happens, then I'll be able to accomplish a couple of my goals.  But it's a long ways to go, but it was nice to make a few putts from the 8 to 10 foot range and kind of keeps your day going.
Q.  How easy were the conditions out there?
TOM PERNICE, JR.:  I don't know that they were easy.  But it was a nice day to play.  There wasn't a lot of wind and the greens were obviously soft from the rain that they had yesterday or last night.  Whenever they got it.  So you didn't have to worry about the ball releasing very much on the greens.  You could pretty much take dead aim.  But there's some long holes out here with some of the new tee boxes and the pins are always still tough.  You have to hit good shots.  But if you're playing good out here you got an opportunity to score pretty well.  So it was a nice day.  Pace of play was actually quite nice, we played in four hours 20 minutes which was nice.  So a smaller field I think helps that.  It's a little more enjoyable.  We played behind John Daly so we knew we weren't going to have to wait much.  And we had a nice rhythm with Jay Haas and Robert Gamez, who were all fast players.  So it was a nice day.
Q.  How long has it been since you had around this good?
TOM PERNICE, JR.:  Well I was 6-under last week but that was in Vegas.
Q.  Were you bogey-free then?
TOM PERNICE, JR.:  I think so.
CHRIS REIMER:  The game's in good shape.
TOM PERNICE, JR.:  I really hit the ball pretty nicely.  I got a new driver from Titleist three weeks ago and I really have been driving the ball well ever since I got the new driver.  I just got it out here two or three weeks ago.  So that's kind of helped me and my swing's kind of carried into the rest of the game so that's been pretty good.  So usually my short game and putting is some of my strong suits and I've been working on it and hopefully it will come around and keep you there.  But if the conditions stay like this and we get any more rain, the scores are going to be low, I think, because the fairways are in great shape and it's going to soften them up and it will be easier to hit and the greens are obviously holding.
CHRIS REIMER:  Let's start and go through your birdies.
TOM PERNICE, JR.:  We started on 1, so the fifth hole I hit a little 9-iron about four feet and made it for birdie.

8, I hit a 5-iron about 7 feet for birdie.

9 I 3-putted from the front of the green.  I hit a 3-wood there.  Par-5.

10, I hit an 8-iron about 15 feet, made it for birdie.

12, I hit a 6-iron about 12 feet for birdie.

13, I 2-putted from 45 feet or something.  3-wood there again.
CHRIS REIMER:  Good luck the rest of the week.
TOM PERNICE, JR.:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT