U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 13, 2013
Tom Pernice, Jr.
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MODERATOR:   Tom Pernice with a three‑day total of 208 at 2 under. 
TOM PERNICE:   Thank you.

Q.   Birdie, eagle start. 
TOM PERNICE:   Yeah, you're looking for something good to get you started, starting so far back.   Couldn't start off much better than that.

Q.   What's going on with the golf course?   A lot of low scores today.   I know you guys are good, but why is it a little more gettable? 
TOM PERNICE:   I think the greens are a little quicker.   I think everybody was struggling with how slow the greens were.   You have less people on the greens, so they may have double cut and rolled instead of single cut.   I don't know.   But the greens seem a little quicker, and I think that helps.
Everybody was struggling getting the ball to the hole.   Today wasn't as difficult getting the ball to the hole.   The greens were somewhat receptive.   They weren't‑‑ they're not firm. 
So they moved up, 6 is up again today.   So hitting a driver or a 7 or 8 iron in there if you hit it in the fairway.   If you hit in the fairway, it becomes a par 69 course almost.
Plus the wind is the same direction it has been for three days now, and I think that helps a little bit.   I think mostly the greens.

Q.   [ No microphone ]. 
TOM PERNICE:   It's always good to get off to a good start.   I mean, you know, the pin location on No. 5, the par 3, is over on the left, which is a lot easier.   Yesterday was up on the right.   You hit the middle of the green and it roll it down, and you have a 20‑footer for birdie.   That, in itself, is pretty gettable. 
6, the par 5, you're hitting a short iron.   The pin's in the back.   Even if you hit it short, you've got a 30‑footer up the hill for a two‑putt for birdie. 
Gets a little more difficult starting at 7.   Tees are back, pin's back.
8, front left pin is a very difficult location there at 8.
So the back nine, I think, is a little more difficult.   The pin at 11 is very difficult today.   The tees are back, the wind's blowing at you, and the pin's all the way in the back.   It's tough to get it all the way back there.
12, getting hard to hit that fairway.   As firm as the fairways are, it just rolls into the left rough.   So you still got to play.

Q.   Made up a lot of ground today, Tom, with the 65.   You did it in the morning.   So does that give you a little bit of maybe breathing room with the guys in the afternoon, the golf course is a little harder, the wind's a little tougher, maybe they back up some? 
TOM PERNICE:   You can't control that.   You just have to wait and see.   Definitely gave myself a chance to move up a little bit. 
A lot has to do with Kenny and Rocco‑‑ or what Michael and Rocco do really at this point.   If they go out and shoot two good rounds, they could distance themselves a little bit.   I saw Corey's playing well today, and he's got it to 4 under at this point.
18, they moved the tee back at 18.   I made a good drive at 18 and had to hit a 5 iron in.   18 is a good hole.
10 is still a good hole even though it's downwind and we're hitting short irons.   Still a good driving hole.

Q.   Did you leave any out there?   Any lip‑outs? 
TOM PERNICE:   I three‑putted 9 from the middle of the green, which was disappointing.   I had a nice birdie putt at 13.   I hit a wedge in there about six or seven feet and misread it.   Other than that‑‑
Q.[ No microphone ]. 
TOM PERNICE:   Sure.   Hit a sand wedge in on 1 about 15 feet and made it.   2, I hit a good drive and a 3 wood about 15 feet, made it for eagle.
6 was a driver and a 7 iron about 30 feet, two‑putted. 
9, I three‑putted from about 40 feet. 
15, I hit a wedge about three feet and made birdie. 
17, I hit a wedge about four feet and made birdie.

Q.   Well done.
TOM PERNICE:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT