THE INTERNATIONAL
August 7, 2004
Tom Pernice, Jr.
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TODD BUDNICK:  We welcome Tom Pernice, Jr., after a plus 11 day today.  26 points and two behind the leader at this point.  2001 past champion, and you have got yourself in the hunt for another title here.
TOM PERNICE, JR.:  Chris DiMarco was nice to us today.  The way Chris was talking yesterday in the paper, he was ready to go out and put himself between the field.  But he let us all back in.  We'll have a shootout tomorrow.
TODD BUDNICK:  Talk about your round today, just the one mistake and six birdies.  A really good day for you.
TOM PERNICE, JR.:  Yes, I hit the ball really nice today, by far the best that I've stroked the ball and had a lot of chances.  Missed a short birdie at 2 and 3, and a short eagle at 1, so I had some opportunities early to get out and really to do some damage.

And 9 was really just a missed club, to be honest with you, we were between a 7 and 8.  Hit it long and it rolled back down there by the pin and it stuck on the fringe.  Other than that, a couple of iron shots that I hit good bounced just over the green.  I got them up and down to save some momentum, but those were the only shots or greens that I missed in the course of the day.
Q.  You used the word shootout, has it come down to that now?  Is tomorrow just fire?
TOM PERNICE, JR.:  Shoot out, meaning I think there is a lot of people that have a chance to win.  I mean, I think everyone plays a little more aggressive when they get short irons in their hand here.  If it dries out and doesn't rain anymore, we'll have shorter clubs into the hole.

You don't know.  It might be another day like today and nobody really tears it up.  It's hard to tell.  You just got to go hot and do your best, not much different than any other, you just try to make more birdies maybe, is all.
Q.  Are you surprised that Chris came back to the pack a little bit?
TOM PERNICE, JR.:  Anybody can have a tough day in this game.  Like my instructor said, it's a hard game.  You're off just a little bit and miss a few putts and hit a few shots in the rough.  He was plus two or minus two or something today, so it can happen.  There's some rough out there.  If you drive crooked, you've got to do some work.
Q.  I was hoping I could get you to weigh in on the Jack Bicker's campaign against the Hot Ball.  Two questions, is the ball too hot and if it is, does it favor the long hitter or the shorter hitter?
TOM PERNICE, JR.:  The ball that Jack Nicklaus used was different than the ball that Ben Hogan used, and the ball Ben Hogan used was the different than the one Walter Hagen used.  Maybe we'll hit shorter clubs into these holes and stuff, but we play the up tee at eight today and it's such a better hole.  It's such a bad hole from the back tee.  They need to blow up the back tee.  It allows about five guys to reach the green in two, and today everyone got to reach the hole in two with a good drive.  And that's what the excitement of this format is kind of about.  Mr. Bicker should blow up that back tee.

With the amount of rough that you have here, if it wouldn't have rained like it did, and the fairways had firmed up, it would have been a tougher driving week and the premium would have been hitting it in the fairway.  I don't see the winning scores any lower than they were 15 years ago.  We play in more rough than they used to play in back 20 years ago, the greens are harder and faster.  The pins are 3 from the edges and they used to be 6 or 7.

The greens or 13 on the Stimp meter, they used to be 8 or 9.  I don't think that we have to hit the same club into the greens that they did 20 years ago.  Pins are 3 from the edge of the greens.  The greens are firm.  If it doesn't rain, the greens are 13 or 14 on the Stimp meter.  They don't say anything about the greens that have all this pitch and slope to them that are designed for 9 on the Stimp meter and we're playing them at 13 or 14.

I think it's all relative.  I think the ball is about done.  It's not going to go much further.  The driver issue is pretty much done.  It's not going to do much more.  To me, the belly putter or the long putter has been an issue to me, way more than those other two factors.  I mean, it is an aid in terms of your anchoring a club, and I think it can help a bad putter, and I think the USGA is looking at it.
Q.  Are you surprised at all that you're in such contention this week or no?
TOM PERNICE, JR.:  I've been playing okay.  I've worked on my putting and I've not been putting good at all all year, and I got a couple of tips and it's been great.  I've putted much better this week and I got myself in contention.  It's amazing what good putting can do.  I've been hitting the ball pretty well, better this year.
TODD BUDNICK:  Thanks.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT