U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 13, 2012
Tom Pernice, Jr.
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MODERATOR:   Ladies and gentlemen, Tom Pernice, Jr., 71, 2 under par for the Championship.

Q.   Tom, conditions compared to yesterday.   A little tougher with maybe the setup and the wind? 
TOM PERNICE:   I think just the wind dried out the greens quite a bit.   I watched a little bit of the telecast last night, and the greens weren't near as firm as they were today.
Obviously, the afternoon, the southwest wind dried them out.   Got a little bit tough to get it close to the hole.

Q.   2 under for the Championship, still within striking distance.   What's your mindset for the weekend now? 
TOM PERNICE:   Oh, much of the same.   I think you need to set it up in the fairway if you're going to have some opportunities to be able to hit some good shots, and try to control your ball and try to keep it below the pins when you can.   It was a little tough today on a couple of them.
Hit some good tee shots that ran through the fairway today three or four times.   That made it a little difficult.   I made two bogeys really today.   I three‑putted the par 5 after having the 3 iron into the green.   Hit it into the bunker, hit it out, and three‑putted for about 12 feet.   Right front of the green on No. 2 and tipped it up with a three or four footer.   So kind of hung in there.   Those were the two kind of unforced errors that otherwise I could have shot a couple under.

Q.   With the golf course being as precise as it is and the golf course firming up, the recon you're trying to do when playing a golf course and learn more must be difficult?
TOM PERNICE:   It was different today because the wind was different than we've seen.   It was southwest and we've been playing out of the northeast.   It was completely different.   The firmness of the greens obviously made it more challenging.   Obviously, there are some guys out there.   I think Steve Lowery is 4 under for the day.
If you're playing well and executing, you can get it done.   But still in there and need to play well on the weekend.

Q.   Thank you. 
TOM PERNICE:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT