NASCAR SPRINT CUP SERIES: AARON'S 499
May 4, 2014
J.D. Gibbs
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  KERRY THARP:   We're going to hear from team president over at Joe Gibbs Racing, J.D. Gibbs.   Congratulations on the win today, J.D.   Denny Hamlin races the No. 11 FedEx Express Toyota to victory lane.   That gives you two drivers into the Chase right now, and certainly Matt Kenseth‑‑  
J.D. GIBBS:   We have three drivers just in case you don't know.   
KERRY THARP:   I know you do.   But anyhow, congratulations.   I know it's got to be a big boost for the 11 car and certainly for the whole organization here winning at this track here today.   
J.D. GIBBS:   Yeah, and the thing about Talladega, you don't know what's going to happen.   You have great cars, but it just takes a lot to make you win the race.   Denny had a great game plan, and I think it all worked out.   I would have loved for Matt to have been able to finish better, and Kyle had a great race.   But a lot of it is out of your control.  
At the same time, Denny kind of knows what he needs to do.   He did a good job today in the race.   
   
 Q.   After everything Denny has been through in the last couple years, is it kind of nice to see him get a fortunate bounce or whatever you want to call it, to have something good?   
J.D. GIBBS:   Yeah, it's very nice.   He needed it so bad.   He's a great competitor, but that win really helped a lot of the past issues get put behind him, and so we were really happy for him to win the race today.   
   
 Q.   Obviously along the same lines with everything he's been through, even this season hasn't really been what he had hoped for or what you guys had hoped for as far as his performance.   What's your level of confidence that this could kind of jump start things for the summer and the Chase and beyond?   
J.D. GIBBS:   You know, I think Denny really operates a lot off momentum, and I think this will really help out our case for 2014.   
He's just a great leader.   He's a great driver.   But he has to have that confidence, and I think he has it now.   
   
 Q.   J.D., how gut wrenching are these races for you as an owner, seeing on the one hand one of your guys win, on the other hand one of your cars torn up, and I guess you had one or two torn up yesterday, too.   What are your emotions here?   
J.D. GIBBS:   You know, a lot of Talladega and Daytona is kind of out of your hands, and so really you just kind of hope the Lord has a good plan for you, and today he did, and yesterday he did.   You hate it for Darrell Wallace, Matt Kenseth today, but that's kind of always been the way it's been here at Talladega and Daytona.   A lot of it's out of your control, but I think our guys have a great game plan and executed well today.   
   
 Q.   It kind of seemed like after Daytona he would have a lot of momentum.   He had such a good run and finished second.   Is there something about where that team is at now where you think they might be able to capitalize on it more after not being able to do it at Daytona?   
J.D. GIBBS:   No, I just think a lot goes into a team.   So I think they have a great crew chief.   Darian does a good job, a great pit crew and a bunch of leaders on the team.   They've just been through a lot.   So I think that can either drive you away from each other or really bond you, and I think those guys have really bonded a lot, and I'm proud of what they did today, and hopefully they'll have a great rest of the season.   
   
 Q.   They've asked you about the wrecks, but how great does the weekend feel?   You're taking home two wins.   
J.D. GIBBS:   I know.   
   
 Q.   There's a lot of positive to this, is there not?   
J.D. GIBBS:   It feels really good.   And the hard part about Talladega and Daytona, a lot of it is out of your control.   Our guys do a great job, and so it's just hard to do.   You get guys that haven't won here that will win here at Talladega, and then you get guys that have won a lot.   It just has to fall into place, and I think our guys have a great game plan for the rest of the season.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT