NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 12, 2016
Larry Drew
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








US Team - 157, World Team - 154
Q. Larry, what is the challenge with such a high-paced game to keep bodies fresh and get guys shots?
LARRY DREW: Well, you know, going into the game, we knew right away the type of substitution pattern we wanted to have, didn't want to leave guys out there too long.  But, yeah, leave them out there long enough to where they can get some type of a rhythm, some type of a lather.  Honestly, the biggest challenge was to get them guys to play some defense.  But I thought our guys responded well to the substitution pattern.
I told them before the game kind of what I had in mind as far as substituting, playing them like seven, eight minutes at a time.  Then the last four minutes of each half we'll see how the match-ups are and see who is rolling and I'll kind of like coach it from there.
Q. How impressive is the Timberwolves collection of young talent?
LARRY DREW: Very impressive.  I watched Wiggins at Kansas because I am from Kansas, so I was able to watch him from afar.
Then watching Zach LaVine, who actually played with my oldest son at UCLA, and I just never forget my son telling me about this kid that they had over there.  They said, Dad, he's going to be pretty good.  They said he can jump out the gym.  He's very talented, very skilled, can play the one and the two.
So I was pretty aware of who he was.  I always felt that Wiggins was going to really be a special player in this league, and where he was a year ago and where he is today, he has really, really improved.  I mean, really improved.  And the people in Minnesota would be very happy with what they have up there.  I just think Zach has a chance to be something special as well.  So they've done a phenomenal job.
Didn't know much about Towns at Kentucky, but when he came into the draft, you could see that this kid was a big man with a high skill level.  You talk about those three players there, you've got three great pieces to start working with.  So I think they have a chance, they have a bright future ahead of them.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT