U.S. OPEN
August 22, 1996
Les Snyder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








LES SNYDER: My name is Les Snyder, and I would like to announce to you here that the
United States Tennis Association has decided to remake the U.S. Open men's draw. This
decision was made in consultation with the players and various associations including the
International Tennis Federation acknowledged (inaudible) the knowledgeable promoters and
USTA members. For review, the first part of the draw, minus the seeds, was completed here
at the National Tennis Center on Tuesday evening. The draw was completed when the seeds
were drawn at a public meeting in midtown Manhattan on Wednesday morning. The order of
seeds was not made public as we had received information that one and perhaps two players
may not be planning to play in the tournament. Therefore, we did not release the seeds in
the evening that the first part of the draw was held. Early Wednesday morning the seeding
committee met to collate information and to make final decisions regarding the order of
the seeds. We received input, following that, that some individuals thought that the
procedures may have been technically incorrect. That is, to be above reproach, the seeds
had to be named before the draw to avoid negative perception. I wanted to say publicly
that the Tournament Referee and the Tournament Director have my full support. But in order
to eliminate any and all questions respect to the draw, the Tournament Committee decided
to publicly redraw the entire men's draw. There will be no change in the seedings, nor in
the order of the announced seedings. I would now ask Brian Earley if he would conduct the
draw and this will be the entire draw. I turn it over to Brian Earley.
(DRAW REDONE) 

Q. What were the perceptions that led to the redraw?

LES SNYDER: It was thought that if the Tournament Committee knew what the draw was
before announcing the order of seeds they may have - may have - been influenced to place
people at a place that they thought was most advantageous for the tournament and not the
integrity of the tournament. The integrity of the tournament is the most important.

Q. Follow-up on that, talking about perhaps trying to play marquis matchups, is that
what you are talking about?

LES SNYDER: Marquis matchups, trying to set up particular marquis matches, playing
favoritism within your own federation or something like that.

Q. In that same respect, were there players that came to you or objections that came to
you?

LES SNYDER: I'd say that we are responding mostly to the players, but we have been
working cooperatively with the ATP and they have had some concerns expressed to them.

Q. Who were those players that came to you?

LES SNYDER: I don't feel it is fair to say who they were because I don't want to
spotlight them and put them on the spot and it was us that had to listen to the
information and then had to respond and felt that they should be the people that are the
focal point at this time.

Q. How much of an embarrassment is it to the tournament and to the USTA?

LES SNYDER: Well, I am sure that all of us wish that it had not occurred. I hope that
we are getting across a very strong message by having this redraw. The main idea is that
we must do what we believe is best for the sport of tennis and we must do what is best for
the U.S. Open and we want it to be above any possible fault (sic), so again, I wish it
hadn't happened, but I know there are lot of people surrounding me here that wish it
hadn't happened too.

Q. Les, were you under any threat of a player boycott in this regard? Were those
thoughts expressed to you?

LES SNYDER: That expression was never used in any of my direct contacts with the
players at all or anybody else. They were asking for me to be responsive and that is what
we have tried to be.

Q. Did they also request that the seedings be, the rankings -- the seedings go
according to the computer rankings?

LES SNYDER: Some people have raised that, but that is a separate issue from what we are
doing right here. That question was raised, but what we did is absolutely within the rules
and we have had a lot of confirmation from players saying that they very much respect us
having the courage to do what we did. 

Q. Will this process be followed in future U.S. Opens?

LES SNYDER: Well, to be honest with you, I have been so busy -- there is no doubt that
we have learned and we will be taking things into account, for sure, as we go forward.

Q. There is one point I did not understand in the first explanation of Les Snyder when
he said that he had to wait 'til Wednesday in order to fix the rankings of the seeded
players because of possible injuries. If some players had to withdraw, you would have to
change not only the ranking, but the names of the seeded players, so why did you wait
until Wednesday?

LES SNYDER: That is a good observation and the waiting was because of things that would
be very integral to the main draw. If it had been somebody that was a very central person
we might have taken a different look and we needed to confirm whether that person was
injured or not.

Q. Were there any players who threatened to pull out?

LES SNYDER: Not to me directly, but I heard that there were people that said they had
some misgivings -- some players who said they had some misgivings to us; plus these
weren't all focused on this particular procedure. They were focused, at least in two
cases, on another type of issue.

Q. How many players did you hear from?

LES SNYDER: That is very difficult to respond to because some people came to us saying
that they were speaking for collectives, and in some cases they would say they were
speaking for people, but it didn't always stand up that they really were. I think it is
just -- I just like better responding to that once we thought it through; once we believed
that it was a significant perception problem; that we thought the right thing was to act
as we are doing.

Q. Kafelnikov was one of those injured players. Can you tell us who the other one was
that you were concerned about?

LES SNYDER: I don't think that -- I don't think that I really should respond to that
question if you don't mind.

Q. (Inaudible.)

LES SNYDER: Absolutely not brought up. As a matter of fact, I have only had other
people alert the television station.

Q. Any pressure from television as far as the marketing (Inaudible.) Has that been
brought up to you at all?

LES SNYDER: Not at all. Absolutely not brought up. As a matter of fact, I have only had
other people alert television stations, television networks, as to what was taking place.
I have not had any correspondence with them. On that, I would just like to acknowledge the
work of Paul Settles who is here helping us today. He is the ATP Player Services Rep and
he was helpful to us in doing this draw today and I want to thank you for that.

Q. Among the players that did inquire, would they have been American players or were
they all non-American?

LES SNYDER: No, there were some Americans and -- there were there were both.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT