NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: SENATORS v DUCKS
June 2, 2007
Randy Carlyle
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   FRANK BROWN:  Questions for Coach.  

 Q.  Randy, your view on the Alfredsson goal?  
 COACH RANDY CARLYLE:  Well, obviously the league felt it wasn't kicked in, simple as that.  Sometimes those things go for you.  Tonight it went against us.  Obviously, we felt that there was a kicking motion from our point of view but I haven't really reviewed the replay from a bunch of different angles.  But that's the way it is.  They make the call and you have to live with it.  

 Q.  Can you talk about what you felt the Senators did that maybe caused you guys some more trouble - 
 COACH RANDY CARLYLE:  They outworked us, simple as that.  

 Q.  Do you suspect that Pronger may be suspended for that hit? 
 COACH RANDY CARLYLE:  See, I just come right down here.  I didn't see the hit.  So I can't make any comments on the hit.  I'm sorry.  If I would have reviewed it. 

 Q.  Are you concerned about the lack of discipline perhaps in the third period? 
 COACH RANDY CARLYLE:  You're not going to be able to come back against a hockey club like the Ottawa Senators, I don't know if we took four straight penalties.  
 Obviously, the frustration level showed in our group into the third period.  But we have to take responsibility for our actions, and we played nowhere near to our capabilities.  And discipline was an issue.  
Our compete level and our movement as far as moving our feet needed room for improvement, and amazingly enough as poorly as I thought we played in the game, we still had a chance.  

 Q.  Could you tell us what's the status of Kunitz, whether he'll - 
 COACH RANDY CARLYLE:  Kunitz has a lower body injury.  It has nothing to do with his former injury.  

 Q.  The term momentum gets used a lot.  Do you think perhaps some momentum went back towards the Senators in the series? 
 COACH RANDY CARLYLE:  When you win the game like they did, they are going to feel good about themselves because they came in and outworked us.  
You have to give their team credit.  And I know that we can play to a higher level than which we played to tonight.  And I expect us to regroup, refocus, make some adjustments and go forward.  

 Q.  The story certainly around the Ottawa team was their first line had been held in check.  They beat you tonight without that first line doing much.  Does that pose a new set of parameters for you as the series goes on? 
 COACH RANDY CARLYLE:  Again, when you're playing the Stanley Cup Final, there's a lot of emotions and a lot of energy that gets expended.  And tonight some of their foot soldiers, their lesser - I don't like to ever call it lesser-known player, probably, or maybe not their offensive catalyst that have been at the forefront of their success.  Some of their other players stepped up for them and you have to give them credit.  
 FRANK BROWN:  Thanks, Coach.  



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT