NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: DUCKS v RED WINGS
May 17, 2007
Randy Carlyle
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JAMEY HORAN:  Questions for Coach Carlyle.   
  
  Q.  What types of things are you looking for out of Jackman tonight, assuming he's in there?   
 COACH RANDY CARLYLE:  Well, it's either Jackman or Rome.  We'll have to make that decision.  We have an idea, but we're not a hundred percent sure which one's going to go in at this point.   
 Both of them are going to have to move the puck and play solid defense.  That's the key.  For their contribution, Jackman has more offense on his side.  I would say that Rome is a bigger-bodied guy.  6'3", about 230 pounds.  He's more of a defensive defenseman, so...   
 Have to make that decision on whether we want more offense or whether we want more defense.   
  
  Q.  How will you rotate minutes?  Will you try to put one of those other three into the top four or try to divide the minutes equally somehow?   
 COACH RANDY CARLYLE:  Well, obviously, the minutes will have to be shared.  I would suspect that we'll rotate people through.   
 With the situation we're presented with, we'll play Niedermayer, Beauchemin, O'Donnell, Huskins.  What we'll try to do is find minutes for Jackman or Rome and DiPenta.   
  
  Q.  Have you come across many times before where, say, a similar situation, you lose a big piece, guys will rally around that?   
 COACH RANDY CARLYLE:  Well, you know, it's one of those things that obviously we're going to try to use as a motivational tool for our group.  You have to be realistic when you lose a player of the magnitude of a Pronger.  It's not like you're going to lay that responsibility at one player to make up the difference.   
 I think it's unrealistic for you to do that.  It's a team game.  You win and lose as a team.  Sure, there's individuals that step up and make larger contributions on any given night.  But it's a team game.  You have to play as a unit.  You have to have all of your players thinking on the same page.   
 I think with us, with what happened, our focus has to be on our team game, getting back to the structure of what we play, getting back to a skating game.  We didn't skate the other night.  We got frustrated from our inability to execute, but we just didn't play our game.  We didn't play anywhere near the tempo that was required in the hockey game.   
  
  Q.  Have you had a chance to talk to Pronger, try to help him through his portion of this?   
 COACH RANDY CARLYLE:  Pronger?  No, I was just wondering if - who was going to skate him today.  We gave that assignment to our video coach because they've got some things going on there (smiling).   
 Can't have four days off, can he, till the next game?  He's got to go out and work.   
  
  Q.  What are your options as far as the quarterback of the power play with him out?   
 COACH RANDY CARLYLE:  Well, we have Beauchemin, played there before.  Scott Niedermayer.  Huskins.  If we decide to use Jackman, he's played there.  One of the things you have to deal with.  Players not available, so you move to Plan B, Plan C.  That's the way it works.   
 JAMEY HORAN:  Thank you, Coach.   
 COACH RANDY CARLYLE:  You're welcome.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT