NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: DUCKS v RED WINGS
May 15, 2007
Randy Carlyle
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JAMEY HORAN:  Questions for Coach Carlyle.   
  
  Q.  Do you feel your team lost its composure in the second period?   
 COACH RANDY CARLYLE:  Well, obviously things really spiraled down quickly for our group in the second.  I think we must have taken five penalties in a row or something like that.   
 Obviously, our frustration level got up there, and we didn't show the necessary discipline that's required.  It just seemed to have a snowball effect.  What else can you say?   
 Did we lose our composure?  I'd have to say that it left lots of room for improvement.   
  
  Q.  Why did you decide to take Giguere out of the game?   
 COACH RANDY CARLYLE:  Just because of a change.  Things weren't going our way at all.  Felt that possibly it could give us a little bit of a break, a little bit of an opportunity to sit back, readjust.  Obviously they scored on the first shot after it.   
 But it's a tough situation to put a goalie in when they're on the power play, as many times as Holmstrom had a free tap in.  I wasn't blaming Giguere.  The two goals previous to the Bertuzzi goal where one was a wide-open back door, guy was wide open, other one was posting in on a three-on-two.  Guys made good shots.   
 So it wasn't a question of I was disappointed with him.  It was a question of trying to stir something up, trying to stop the bleeding.   
  
  Q.  What was Detroit doing in this game that it wasn't doing in the previous two games?  Do you believe they were more successful in pressuring your defense in this game?   
 COACH RANDY CARLYLE:  Well, they were obviously the better team tonight.  Simple as that.  They started with the puck more often than we did.  They played their system a lot better.  Tonight they got a puck-possession team and they controlled the puck.  There were far too many passes through the neutral ice into the middle of ice.  They came through there uncontested.  That's not the style of hockey that we're capable of playing.  What we have to do is readjust and assess where we made our mistakes.  I'll talk to the team.  We'll be judged by our effort on the next one.  We can't do anything about this one.   
  
  Q.  In a lopsided game like this, what do you tell your team?  Put this aside?   
 COACH RANDY CARLYLE:  Well, we have a motto all year that you're allowed to enjoy a win for 10 minutes, and you suffer a loss for 10 minutes.  We have to take the necessary steps tonight from a physical standpoint.  Mentally it will be tough 'cause these are tough ones to turn the page on.  But we're going to have to turn the page, regroup.  We'll assess some of the things we did poorly tonight.  It could be a long video session at that.   
 But, you know, we're not a hockey club that doesn't accept responsibility for our actions.  We'll play and we'll take some time, regroup, prepare our team to play the next one.  It's a seven-game series.  They have a 2-1 lead.  The next game's the most important one.   
  
  Q.  Can you talk about the game that Scott Niedermayer had.  Looked like he was victimized a couple times there.   
 COACH RANDY CARLYLE:  Those things happen some nights.  You know, one night everything goes against you.  Being a former defenseman, I've been in the situation where no matter what you do out there, the puck doesn't bounce for you, it bounces away from you, it goes through you, all those things.  Every judgment that you make some nights, just one of those nights you chalk them up, move on.   
 He's played far too many quality games for our hockey club to let one game at this juncture in the season affect our opinion of the individual.  He's a world-class player.  He's human.   
  
  Q.  Your impressions of the hits by Niedermayer and Pronger on Holmstrom.   
 COACH RANDY CARLYLE:  Well, I only got one look at it.  I didn't think that Niedermayer was involved as much.  I thought Pronger just finished his check.  It's unfortunate the player got hurt.  But it was fortunate this he was able to come back and play.  You know, those things in the game, like to see the player come back and be able to play.   
 JAMEY HORAN:  Thanks, Coach.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT