NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINAL: DUCKS VS PREDATORS
May 18, 2017
Randy Carlyle
Corey Perry
John Gibson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Anaheim - 3, Nashville - 2   
Series tied, 2-2   
 Q.  If you can take us back to the decision you made earlier this year to take Perry off of Getzlaf's wing, do you think it was hard on Perry?  He'd been there a long time, he's an older guy, maybe.  Was it harder for him to deal with it?  
COACH CARLYLE: No, I don't think it was hard for him at all.  I think what it did, in reality, like, it might have been a little bit of a shock to him.  But when you explain the benefits of it and then as you have the ability to move him back on it at any time, it's not like it's something that's permanent.   
So what we've said is that the major benefit that we believe in is that if we move him to a different line, he's going to see the opposition's third pairing of defense.  So that's who he's playing up against, versus meeting the one or two combination of defensemen.  If you move him to a third-line role and he's still expected to provide offense and he's playing against the opposition's so-called third pairing of defensemen and he still gets his power play minutes, we think that that's an advantage for the team.   
And personally, I don't think that he would ever challenge us based upon if that's what we feel is best for the team, then he would be willing to sacrifice.   
 Q.  Could you talk a little bit about the emotions of tonight?  By that I mean, you dominated the game, gave up the lead with 36 seconds left.  Come back and win it.  And obviously you're down and come back and win it in overtime.  Now instead of a 3-1 deficit, the series is tied 2-2?  
COACH CARLYLE: These ebbs and flows in the game.  The one thing we wanted to make sure was we established a strong start.  And we did that, with an exclamation mark.  So with our performance the other night, we felt we're flat and we didn't have the necessary emotion and energy to play to the level that they played to.   
So we felt we'll take a look at their schedule, see what we've done and take a look and say, hey, what are we better served to do to refresh our group.  And we looked like a refreshed group tonight.  And we got a start.   
And when you get a start on the road and have that -- but we knew they were going to come out with more of a push than they had in the first period, sure.  They're a proud group and they're a good hockey team.   
 Q.  I know you guys didn't trail in this game, obviously.  But it's another dire situation, seemingly, that you guys are facing, with the way that everything developed.  How does this team continue to recover, deal with those types of situations, and actually come out in the end?  
COACH CARLYLE: Again, you have to credit your players.  Those are the people that are out there putting it on the line.  And we've been able to find ways to reach back and get more.  If it's five percent more, 10 percent more.  And some nights we ask that we need our group collectively.  If everybody in that room can give us 10 percent more, then collectively that would have a huge swing in our favor and expect more.   
And I don't think 10 percent from any one of them is too much to ask.  I don't.  And I don't think realistically in life, if somebody asks you to give them 10 percent more, maybe just in taxes, that's the only thing you want to give.  But you'd be willing to I can give you 10 percent more.  I can give you 10 percent more.   
And I think that's the mandate and the model that we adopt, that there are things that we can control.  And again what we tried to do after the third period is reset our group and say, hey, we're going to go back out, check off the list of things that we said that's going to take place -- the adversity, the emotions, the refereeing.  All of those things were on our list that we have to deal with.   
And I thought, yeah, they had a few flurries, but so did we in overtime.  Then we threw the puck toward the net and I think it actually went off Subban's stick from the wall.   
 Q.  You talked about refereeing.  You had four penalties in a row in the third period.  They tied the game.  Was there anything said in the locker room between third period and overtime to make sure this group was not frustrated back on the ice?  
COACH CARLYLE: I can tell you you're going to be frustrated, but we had to reset ourselves.  And that's one of the things -- officiating is something that when it's done you can't control it.  You don't have any control over what's just happened.   
The only thing you can control is how you reset yourself and how you plan to move forward.  And I thought that we did a good job of understanding that we can't change what just happened, but we sure can make an impression and go out and give us what you've got.   
 Q.  A lot of talk now in the league about the younger players taking over, but in this game, with it on the line there's Corey Perry making a big play.  Is there still an advantage to being an old-timer, to kind of be in that situation to know just to send the puck on -- he got a deflection just because he sent the puck toward the net?  
COACH CARLYLE: I think the mandate of the old guy is a little bit premature.  He's only, what, 31 years old?  32.  His birthday was the other day.  So 32 years old.  I wouldn't say that that's considered an elderly statesman in the league by my standards because I look at 42-year-old guys and 37-year-old guys that have played 15 and 16 years that I think those I would consider those guys elder statesmen.   
But they're veteran players, obviously, and there is a place for a veteran player on every lineup, I guarantee you.   
 Q.  Corey, maybe in other years a situation like that a, quote/unquote, melt-down, whatever you want to call it, might have sunk you guys.  These teams seem to be able to shrug stuff like that off.  Why and how?  How do you stay calm?  How do you move beyond that and --  
COREY PERRY: Like we've been saying all Playoffs, we have a checklist that we go through every single day, and it doesn't matter when it is in the game, you gotta go back.  You've got to think on what's on that list.  And adversity is one of them, ebbs and flows of the game.   
And we knew coming into overtime you put that period behind you, go out, play like you did in the first period, on our toes, getting pucks in deep.  We kind of changed the momentum there.  And we got some chances and we got a break.   
 Q.  Earlier this year Randy was saying he took you off the Getzlaf line, and he explained it.  Now you're playing against third-pairing guy, and you've always played against first-pairing guys.  What's it like to go through what you've gone through and then score a big goal like this, still, which is your trademark?  
COREY PERRY: I mean, I move around all the time and it doesn't matter where you're playing in the lineup, you've still got to go out and do the things that make you successful in this league as a player.  And it doesn't matter what line I'm on, I'm going to play the same way, I'm going to throw pucks at the net, I'm going to go to the net and play down low.   
And it's something that I've always done and I don't change where I am.   
 Q.  Corey, the first period tonight for you guys, radically different than the last first period.  More a mindset more tactics, what was the difference in your mind?  
COREY PERRY: I thought we had some energy and we were on our toes.  You look at that period and that's exactly how we play.  And that's when we're at our best and when we're effective.   
And to allow one or two shots, whatever it was, in the first and come away with a 1-0 lead, that was huge for our group and a big momentum swing for us.   
 Q.  John, you've been around this group and been in some Playoff situations even before this year.  To handle situations, highs and lows, whatever, what is it that is different about this group that seems to be able to handle stuff like tonight better?  What are you seeing that's different?  
JOHN GIBSON: I think the last three or four years we've obviously gone through a lot, more downs in the playoffs than ups.  But I think we just learn from that and I think now that we have a sense of calmness and we have the ability to always regroup, whether we're up or down or something like that happens, I think we all just have the belief in the locker room and we trust one another that we can come back or have success in any situation.   
 Q.  Corey, Randy just said one of the reasons he thought you guys had such a hot start was because you guys did a good job getting rest heading into this game.  Do you agree with that?  
COREY PERRY: Yeah, I think yesterday was perfect what we did.  I think get away from the rink, don't even come, get away, play some pool, play some darts and just relax.   
It was a great afternoon for everybody.  I think that's exactly what we needed.  We wanted to put the Game 3 behind us.  We know we didn't play very well.  But I thought tonight we came out, had some energy, and we responded well.   
 Q.  How do you strike that balance between staying engaged, going over tape, doing the stuff that you need to do to get better and improve in the series and kind of check out and be able to be energized the way you were tonight?  
COREY PERRY: I don't think we're going to do what we did yesterday every single day; but, like I said, it was nice to get away.  You go over -- you do your things in the morning on game days; we went over power play and penalty kill and did all that and everybody knows what's going on.   
And tonight we just talked about having a good start.  It's kind of what we wanted to talk about and what we wanted to do is come out and play the way we wanted to play, and I thought we did a great job of doing that.   
 Q.  Corey, could you talk us through that play, what you were looking for, what you saw, and was it your goal?  
COREY PERRY: Well, I'll take it.  I just saw Subban going back.  And I think somebody was putting some good pressure on him.  And he was on his back hand and rimming the puck and I was on the other side waiting for it.  And out of the corner of my eye I saw Nate going to the net.   
And from what I saw, it went off Subban and in the net.  I was just trying to create traffic or create a balance and create havoc in front.  And that's what they say in overtime:  You throw it on net, never know what's going to happen.   
 Q.  Corey, where did you guys go yesterday?  And was that like way back when in '06 before Game 7 in Calgary?  
COREY PERRY: We can't tell you our secrets.  But it was just a good getaway, and it was something that we needed and I think we responded fairly well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT