ICC WOMEN'S WORLD T20
November 17, 2018
Jemimah Rodrigues
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








India - 167/8, Australia - 119-all out
Q. Jemi, your assessment of the game, especially the bowling?
JEMIMAH RODRIGUES: I think we bowled really well.  We stuck to our plans, what we decided.  And I think more than sticking to the plans the execution was really amazing by the bowlers, and the fielding also proved it.  So I think it was a really good one today.
Q. Were you surprised whether the approach of the Australian batters, it is very different from what seven New Zealand batters used against the Indian bowlers?
JEMIMAH RODRIGUES: Not exactly surprised because we knew if we would stick to our plan we were confident on our plan.  We knew if we would stick to our plan we could have gone forward with it.  But I think they did.
Q. A lot of the talk was about how Harmanpreet played big innings against Australia last year.  Was that innings ever discussed in the dressing room?  Was the World Cup ever discussed in the dressing room?
JEMIMAH RODRIGUES: Yes, it was definitely discussed.  In our meetings it's always good to remember the good stuff we've done.  And it plays an impact and motivates each other.  So we have spoken about that.
So I think today also Arundhati [phonetic] and Smriti, the partnership they had, I think if Arundhati would have stayed more time, we would have remembered a bit of the same one.  But I think it was good.
Q. And the catching was a lot better today.  What sort of work has gone on between these two games?
JEMIMAH RODRIGUES: Since the match we had not done such good fielding.  We worked more on fielding.  Some of us were hitting it and we took more catches, in fact, and we got used to the weather conditions.  So I think so that played an impact.
Q. When you play the semifinals you might have to play under lights.  Has any sort of work gone into that?
JEMIMAH RODRIGUES: Yeah, we've been practicing on the lights also.  Like whenever we get an opportunity, I'm sure once we go back to Antigua, we'll get -- according to the match situation like that -- we'll get practise time.  So that will definitely help us and we'll put in our best efforts.
Q. How important is this victory today in terms of lifting the confidence ahead of the semifinal?
JEMIMAH RODRIGUES: I think it's important because not just because it's Australia, but for ourselves and our team, because we've got the momentum.  So we need to keep that momentum, keep doing the things, don't focus mainly on the results.  So I think it plays a huge impact on our team and I think we look forward to it but not get carried away by it and try to do even better in the semifinals.
Q. Bowling has been spot on.  Some of the batters and fielding has been exceptional.  Do you think you've ticked all the boxes for the semifinals?
JEMIMAH RODRIGUES: Not all the boxes because there's always room for improvement.  But I think we did pretty well.  I think like from the first match to today, I think we all have seen a lot of improvement in our bowling and in our fielding.  Our teammates, everybody, the coaches, the support staff, everybody is putting in a lot of effort, we're working really hard and it's paying off.  We just try and get better.
Q. I thought on Smriti's innings at the top of the order.  Any message for her up front or do you allow her to play the way she did?
JEMIMAH RODRIGUES: I don't tell her anything.  I just allow her to play the way she did.
Q. As one of the youngest members of the Indian team, this is maybe a challenge for you batting in the No. 3 position.  What's your mindset going out there especially with this big tournament?
JEMIMAH RODRIGUES: I think I don't focus on the big tournament or anything like that.  I just watch the ball and play accordingly, according to my game, because I just like to -- I love playing cricket and I enjoy it.  That's why I don't bother my age or big tournament.  I just watch the ball.  I love hitting the ball, that's what I do.
Q. And the pitches, how would you compare this pitch to the ones that you have played maybe in India, this pitch?
JEMIMAH RODRIGUES: I think it's pretty similar to Indian wickets because there are some grounds in India which have a pretty low bounce.  But I think the wicket was good.  If we play positive and we play an actual game I think we'll be able to score on any wicket.  Not just this wicket.  I feel it was a pretty good wicket.
Q. You had a good knock.  But a lot of the downs have come from the senior players.  What are the younger ones learning by looking at Harmanpreet and Smriti?
JEMIMAH RODRIGUES: I think the way to take the responsibility and stand up to the challenge, that's what we're learning.  Because it's a big tournament, a lot of expectations for them.  But I think the way they're handling the expectations and taking on the responsibility and standing up to that occasion is really amazing.  And we'll be looking forward to seeing more of them and learning a lot and making most of this experience.
Q. How much of a boost was it having all of those Indian supporters in the stands today?
JEMIMAH RODRIGUES: It's always a boost for us.  Like when people support you, like it's a definite kind of motivation you get from the inside.  You want to do even better because these people have come from a long distance and they're cheering for you.  So it pumps us up and helps us get more better.
Q. This is your first big tournament with a new coach, what was the coach's message coming into the tournament especially coming into this game?
JEMIMAH RODRIGUES: I think the coaches played a really big impact in our team.  Especially he didn't do much technical, but it was more of a change in mindset.  He told us always to dominate whether we're batting, bowling or fielding.  And play positive.  That's how you'll defeat anybody.  But we need to just focus on our strengths what we can do better and go ahead with that.
Q. So how would you compare the culture of this team compared to the team you came into?
JEMIMAH RODRIGUES: I think it's just a change in mindset that has worked for each one of us.  And it's really helping us.  So I think he has had an impact by changing our mindset.  That's really helped us.  I think we'll carry on with that same mindset.
Q. Going into the semifinals, not being in the semifinals for a couple of tournaments, how important is -- how focused is the team and winning the semifinal really getting into the first finals for a while?
JEMIMAH RODRIGUES: Yes, it's a big game.  We're really looking forward to it and our team is doing pretty well.  We take it one match at a time.  We focus on the semifinals and then we focus on the final.  I think our team is doing really well.  We need to keep getting better.  We cannot be satisfied with today's victory, because there are many ways we can still improve.  We've done very well today but I believe that there's always room for improvement.  Our team has done really well.  We hope that we continue the same momentum and even win the World Cup.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT