NCAA MEN'S 1ST AND 2ND ROUNDS: BROOKLYN
March 17, 2016
Jarrod Uthoff
Adam Woodbury
Mike Gesell
Anthony Clemmons
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Jarrod, you guys started off the year really strong.  Middle of February, things started to change.  What happened?  And how do you enter the reset button entering into this tournament?  
JARROD UTHOFF: We lost a couple of games in the tournament.  The tournament we went to down in Florida.  I think that really woke us up.  We really had a strong middle of the season.  Towards the end, I think the Big Ten season really started to wear on us.  Day in and day out, you're playing great teams.  It's not like you're playing poor competition.  Losing to those good teams, I think it's a good experience for us, and I think we'll bounce back in this tournament.   
 Q.  Mike, when you see Josh Brown, who you're going to oppose for most of the game on Friday, he's got similar numbers to you in assist to turnover, takes care of the ball.  What other things do you see about him, and how difficult of a matchup does he present for you?  
MIKE GESELL: He's a guy that's out there running their team.  I think it's a great matchup for me.  It will be a fun matchup.  He's going to be out there pretty much the whole game.  He's a very good player.   
 Q.  You guys are all seniors.  This is your third straight NCAA Tournament.  What can you take from previous lessons in this tournament and take them into this year?  
ANTHONY CLEMMONS: I mean, with the experience with this tournament, you have to come out and bring it and give it your all every second, every possession counts.  There's not a possession you have to take off.  Anything can happen in March and in these tournaments.  Just by knowing that and understanding the process that we've been through, we've just got to bring our A game.   
JARROD UTHOFF: We've all experienced losing our last game of the year, and I think that's the biggest motivation for us.  We haven't won this tournament.  We haven't won the Big Ten Tournament.  I think you learn from that that you lose, you're done, and I think that's the biggest lesson we've learned.   
ADAM WOODBURY: I think the biggest thing is there's no tomorrow.  It's a do or die situation.  We all want to go out on top in our careers and leave a lasting legacy at the University of Iowa.  This is our last chance to do so.   
MIKE GESELL: They pretty much hit it on the head.  If you're not excited to play in the NCAA Tournament, there's something wrong with you.  We're really excited for this opportunity.   
 Q.  Jarrod, what about Temple impresses you the most?  
JARROD UTHOFF: From us watching film of them, obviously, we don't get much interaction with them.  They're a different conference.  But from watching them on film, I've been impressed with the tempo and how they try to dictate the tempo.  They don't panic.  They play within themselves.  They try to -- they don't let -- they make you beat them.   
 Q.  You talked about how Temple makes you beat them.  Neither you nor Temple turn the ball over.  I think both of you guys are in the top 20 in the country in turnovers per game.  Do you prefer when a team tries to make you turn the ball over or stays back?  
JARROD UTHOFF: That's tough.  I don't really prefer either one.  It doesn't matter to me.  We line up and play against whoever's in front of us.   
 Q.  Jarrod, you were talking about the trends of the season and the downturn in the arc at the end, playing the Big Ten schedule.  I think you used the phrase wore down.  Is there a fatigue factor in play here for Iowa?  
JARROD UTHOFF: Not right now.  When you're in the middle of the Big Ten season, that's a different situation.  You have a game every three days or whatever the case may be.  Right now we're recharged.  We're ready to go.  A season is a series of peaks and valleys.  You peak at times, and at times you go through rough patches, and you learn from each experience.  I think we're primed and ready to go.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT