U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 3, 2006
Pat Hurst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  You came so close.  It just didn't seem like you had the edge that you had on Sunday.
 PAT HURST:  Yeah, I couldn't get anything going.  I couldn't get anything to fall.  The putts weren't    you need to putt out here, and didn't get anything going.
Q.  Until the last hole.
 PAT HURST:  A little too late, though.  I got that last one.  It was a good one to end on, and hopefully we'll take that into next week.
Q.  How difficult was that start for you, those two strokes on the very first hole?
 PAT HURST:  Yeah, that was tough.  Making a bogey on the first hole, three putting, confidence obviously went down a little bit, with Annika making birdie, getting two shots right there.  It makes it tough, but I knew there was a lot of holes left.  When I missed that short one, that kind of set me back a little bit more.  I think that kind of was the hurting point right there.

In this game you just never know, so I just kept pushing and was hoping to make some birdies, but they didn't come.
Q.  Was there a point where you said, I just can't do this?
 PAT HURST:  No, never.  I never have a point where I'm going to say that I can't do this.  When that point comes, that's when it's time to just walk off the golf course.  You know, I pushed until the very end and I'm proud of what I do and I'm proud of how I played this week.  The last 18 wasn't what I wanted, wasn't the finish that I wanted, but I'm just very proud to be here.

You know, Annika played great, and I have to give her that.  She played steady; she was down the middle, on the green and making some putts.  She played well.
Q.  Your overall experience here in Newport?
 PAT HURST:  It was great.  Newport Country Club, the people around here were great, city was great.  You can't ask for anything more than that.  I spent nine days here, so I'd better like it.  It's been a long week.  We're used to staying somewhere six to seven days and we stayed here nine.  We met some good people here, and we really enjoyed it.
Q.  Was there a point at all during the round where you started to think you might be in trouble and you knew you had a lot of ground to make up?
 PAT HURST:  Well, I knew I had a lot of ground to make up.  It was a matter of making some putts and they weren't falling.  Like I said, I always pushed until the end.  You never know what can happen.  This wasn't match play, it was stroke play, so anything can happen.

I always try to keep my head in the game.  I'll just take the experiences that I gained from here on to next week.
Q.  You were not a favorite at the beginning when this whole thing started, but how does it make you feel you made it to the 18 hole playoff?
 PAT HURST:  It feels great.  It's a lot of pride, a lot of pride involved.  Playing up against the No. 1 player in the world, when we were talking coming down 18, hopefully next week Sunday we'll be paired up again.  We'll see; time will only tell.  I'm playing well and I'm looking forward to next week and looking forward to just actually putting my feet up for a little bit, maybe for a day or so, and getting these blisters    having them heal.
Q.  Do you have blisters?
PAT HURST:  Just a little bit, a couple of them.  I put some new shoes on this week.
Q.  Which foot?
PAT HURST:  Left.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT