U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 2, 2006
Pat Hurst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
The first question I have is what's going through your head on that final putt?
 PAT HURST:  You know, I don't know what was going through my head.  I was just trying to focus on the line and get the right speed, and it went in.

So I wasn't really trying to think too much about it, just what I've been doing all the other holes.
Q.  Any gas left in the tank for tomorrow?
 PAT HURST:  I do.  But my arm is hurting carrying my daughter.  It's cramping, I guess, from being so tired.  But out there I felt fine.  I'm ready to go one more round, of course.  I'd die for this.  This is what we live for, and I've got that opportunity.
Q.  What did you find is the biggest obstacle this weekend?
 PAT HURST:  Wind, definitely.  The length    the wind out there and with the golf course being so long, it made it tough.  But definitely the wind, I would say.
Q.  Did you get nervous at all, especially coming down 18?
 PAT HURST:  You know, you get the butterflies going, and the juices start flowing, and like I said, that's what we live for, that's what makes us come out.  Every time you get that it makes you want to play more.  And I just love that feeling.
Q.  Your relationship with Annika on a personal level, what is tomorrow going to be like?
 PAT HURST:  Cut throat?  No.  No, I think we're just going to go out and play, and try to play some good golf and see where that takes us.  She's a great player, and I know I'm going to have to play hard.  Our relationship is great.  We've both lived up at Incline Village for a little bit.  We had our moments at Solheim, but I think everything has been cleared away and we get along great now.
Q.  A 16 year old hung with you all day.  What do you think it's going to take for Michelle?  She's been in contention in all these majors.  What do you think it's going to take for her to get there?
 PAT HURST:  I have no idea.  I didn't watch her play.  I don't know what    she's a great player, you can't knock her for that.  She's played well in every tournament    I think every tournament that she's played in, it seems like.  She's always up there.  It's just a matter of time if she keeps getting herself in that position, it's going to happen.
Q.  It's nice to see you and Annika go head to head tomorrow.
PAT HURST:  I can't wait.
Q.  Is it hard to stay focused, such a long day, so many golf shots?
 PAT HURST:  You know, I really didn't think about it out there.  I think my adrenalin was working out there, and just kept me going.  But I didn't think about this was my 33rd hole, this is my 34th hole, I was just thinking shot by shot.  And I tried to sit down as much as I can, because I knew I was going to have 36 holes and tried to take a load off my feet as much as I could.  And fortunately we had to wait a little bit out there so we could put our feet up for a little bit.
Q.  When Annika hit the two long putts, what's going through your head at that point?  Are you motivated by it or are you saying, oh, no, she went up by a stroke on me?
 PAT HURST:  Two long putts    you mean the birdies on    14 and 15.  Out here you never know what can happen.  17 is tough and 18 is tough.

16, you can make a birdie out there if you put yourself in the right position.  But out here I was just    I was trying not to focus on everybody else's score, because I know that it's not a golf course where you're going to shoot 10 under.  It's a golf course where par is your friend, and you just go out and play and try to do the best I can, and that's what I did.
Q.  You chipped in twice?
 PAT HURST:  Three times, maybe.  I did chip in a couple of times there.  I've chipped in three times this week, and that's kind of helped me and helped the confidence with the chipping.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
 PAT HURST:  I don't know where the pin    I'd say it was maybe a 20 footer, maybe, but it was downhill.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT