MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
June 10, 2006
Pat Hurst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PAM WARNER:  Pat, thanks for joining us in the interview room.  Currently still tied for the lead.  Just want to talk about your day.
PAT HURST:  Yeah, played pretty well on the front side until number nine and then had a little problem on the green there.  But overall I'm hitting it pretty well and looking forward to tomorrow.
PAM WARNER:  What are your thoughts going into tomorrow?
PAT HURST:  Hit the ball the same hopefully and make some putts.
PAM WARNER:  Let's go over your scorecard.
PAT HURST:  I birdied number 3.  I hit 9 iron to about 30 feet to the right.

Birdied number 8, I think gap wedge to about 15 feet there.

Then I 4 putted No. 9.  And then that was it.
PAM WARNER:  We'll take questions for Pat.
Q.  Can you talk about the holes you played?  How many holes did you play today and any fatigue?
PAT HURST:  I played 26 holes today.  I'm a little tired but I went home and took a nap and so I feel fine out there today  for the last 18.  I'm okay.
Q.  How do these greens compare to other greens on the circuit?
PAT HURST:  I think they're nice.  They roll pretty true.  So if you can see the line, and get it started on that line, it's going in.  So I think that the greens are pretty receptive right now.  They're a little bit soft right now because of the rain.

It's hard to compare each golf course because every one is so different.  But the greens are really nice out there.
Q.  Is it harder to see the line?  It seems like a lot of    like going through the course today I would talk to people on each hole and they would say, everyone's missing the same way, every group through is missing the same putts.  Is that making any sense?
PAT HURST:  I think it depends on what hole it is.  Because a lot of the greens are, I think, are pretty true out there.

I think the pins were in tough spots today.  I don't think too many people went low.  I don't know.  I didn't really see the scores.

But the pins were in tough spots where speed was key out there.

Overall I think the greens are really nice out here.
Q.  How did the 4 putt affect you?  You had a lot of birdie chances on the back side.  You couldn't help but wonder if it had an effect.
PAT HURST:  I think it had a little bit of an affect.  Anytime you do that the confidence kind of goes down a little bit.  But I think I know what I need to work on tomorrow before I go out and play and hopefully that will be the trick.
Q.  What will that be?
PAT HURST:  We're just going to go out and see what it is.
Q.  What were the lengths of the birdie putts you had on 15 and 18 and were they particularly frustrating that you couldn't open up some ground?
PAT HURST:  On 15?  The par 5?  I don't know.  15 feet.  And then 18, you said?  That was probably 10, 12 feet.  I don't know what else you said.
Q.  I just thought they were a    well, from TV they looked a little shorter.
PAT HURST:  They might have been.  They might have been.  I don't know.
Q.  And it might have been a chance for you to open up some ground?
PAT HURST:  Yeah, definitely looking at those two putts even on 17 I hit it in there pretty good and I just didn't convert.  So it's frustrating, but you just got to move on and not think about it too much.
Q.  I know it's a weekly occurrence out here, but can you speak to the fact that there are so many young competitors out there?  And I mean, there's a bunch of 20 year olds and even younger than that.  What does that say for the Tour and for the women's game?
PAT HURST:  I think it's great.  A lot of them have a whole bunch of different personalities that really, are really    that is good for our Tour.  And I think that's great for our Tour.

I just played with Christina Kim and she's pretty lively out there.  And it brings a lot of people out to the golf course seeing someone like that.  So most of our younger players, Natalie Gulbis, Paula Creamer, Ai Miyazato, you got a lot of young players that are good players and it's, I think it's brought a lot to our Tour.
Q.  Speaking of her specifically, have you played with her yet?
PAT HURST:  No, I haven't played with her yet.  Maybe tomorrow?  Yeah.
Q.  How is your Japanese?
PAT HURST:  I don't know if you know what that is.  It's very little.  But I know how to say good luck.
Q.  I happened to know that your mother was born in Japan.  Is that right?
PAT HURST:  Yes, she's from Japan.
Q.  Could you tell us, how do you feel about your playing with the Japanese players?
PAT HURST:  I think it's fun.  I feel    I'm part Japanese, so I feel    I won't say closer to the Japanese players, but I do have a little soft spot in my heart for them.  And I have had a lot of    Riko Higashio and Ayako Okamoto were some of my good friends out here and I think a lot of that has to do because I have a soft spot for the Japanese in my heart.
PAM WARNER:  Any other questions?  Thanks, Pat.
PAT HURST:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT