MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
June 9, 2006
Pat Hurst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
Talk about today so far.
PAT HURST:  So far, so good.  Coming down the end it was a little bit hard to see.  But we played pretty well and I think I'm a couple under, so just looking forward to playing these next eight holes.
Q.  You started out pretty strongly with two birdies.  Do you want to talk about that?
PAT HURST:  Started out strong with a couple birdies my first two holes and then play was suspended.

But I came back out and started on 13, which is the tough hole there, but managed to make par there and then made a birdie and a bogey coming in.

So just the momentum was stopped right when they halted it.  But, you know, you can't    everybody's play was stopped, so it wasn't just mine.
Q.  What did you do during the weather delay?
PAT HURST:  I did nothing.  We did nothing.  I wish I was with you guys going to the movies.  Yeah, I didn't do much.  Just kind of hung out.
Q.  What are your thoughts going into tomorrow to finish the second round?
PAT HURST:  Just finish the second round.  And I don't know what the tee times are going to be tomorrow afternoon, but hopefully just get ready and go out and play the third round.

I had the momentum going my way and it was halted.  But everybody had to stop and there's nothing you can do about that.  But I just went out and tried to do the best I could.
Q.  What about tomorrow?  Certainly guess it's a bit of a disadvantage having to come out and finish a round, but at the same time, where your score is, you got to feel pretty good about that?
PAT HURST:  Yeah, I feel good about my score.  We got eight more holes to play.  And I don't know what time the third round starts, but we're looking forward to the third round, whenever that comes up.
Q.  It makes for long weekend?
PAT HURST:  Yeah, it does.  But everybody is out here, everybody's in the same boat, and I'm not the only one.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT