MICHELOB ULTRA OPEN AT KINGSMILL
May 12, 2006
Pat Hurst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PAUL ROVNAK:  Pat, thanks for coming in.  We always appreciate your time.  You're playing great golf, tied for the lead right now.  Tell us about your day and we'll take some questions.
PAT HURST:  Played pretty solid.  Had one bad hole out there.  Four birdies, so just kind of hitting it down the middle on the green and 2 putting for the most part and making a putt every now and then.
Q.  What was the bad hole, what happened?
PAT HURST:  10.  I just hit it left in the bunker off the tee.  Couldn't hit anything out besides a wedge, and then hit it up there actually pretty good.  Just missed my 15 footer for par.
Q.  What were you left with on the third shot?
PAT HURST:  Now you're asking me a tough question.  I think I hit 8 iron.
Q.  That hole is just a mess, anyway.
PAT HURST:  It's a long hole.
Q.  It's testing, demanding, if you miss the fairway.
PAT HURST:  That hole is definitely the hole that you want to hit it in the fairway there.
Q.  Are the greens more manageable today, or how much more manageable today?
PAT HURST:  Today was a little softer, it wasn't as firm as yesterday.  So you can fly it a little bit more at the pin, and that's something that we were doing last week.  So made it a little bit easier to club when I'm out there.
Q.  This is one of those games where you just get on a roll, you were on a roll last week, how long can you sustain the hot hand usually?
PAT HURST:  I don't know, you know, I'm just out there, I'm hitting the ball pretty well and putting pretty good.  So you know I just want to keep going and not think about it and just try to do the best I can out there.
Q.  Is this some of the best golf you've played in a row in a while?
PAT HURST:  You know, I have my moments where I've played well at the end of last year.  The beginning of the year is always tough for me since I have two kids.  And just once I get away from home, it's a little bit easier to focus on my golf instead of on them.  I only have one out here, so that makes it a little bit easier also where I don't have, like I said, both of them.  My time is a little bit less at home than it is out here and I have a little bit more time to focus on golf.
Q.  When you get out playing Tour events, how long does it take to cut the umbilical cord from being mom to being pro golfer again?
PAT HURST:  I don't know how long it takes but I do know that once I do get out here, it's much easier for me because when I'm out here, I focus on golf.  When I'm at home I focus on being mom.  So my time I kind of split it up and I don't think golf 24/7, and I think that's kind of a nice, you know, it evens out a little bit and I think that's kind of nice.
Q.  At this point in the year, is there anything that you particularly would like to improve on or like on just on a daily basis?
PAT HURST:  You know, it's just a matter of getting over the hump.  I've been playing pretty well and you know, you just never know what can happen.  If things go your way, then obviously you play that much better.  You know, I'm just trying to go out and play the best I can.  Early in the year, obviously I make more mental mistakes than I do now, and if I minimize those, then I think that definitely helps me.
Q.  Is this golf course hard enough where it eliminates some of the people?
PAT HURST:  I think so.  I think it's long, and the longer the golf course, you know, obviously you're eliminating some of the players out there.  But the fairways are pretty generous for the most part.  But if you do miss the fairways, you're going to make bogey.
Q.  If you always played with that long backswing?
PAT HURST:  I haven't changed my swing, so I guess I have.  I haven't worked on that.  But, yeah, no, it's always been pretty long.  It doesn't feel long to me but I guess everybody says it is long.
Q.  Just feels natural?
PAT HURST:  Yeah.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Let's go over your score card.
PAT HURST:  2, No. 2, I hit 5 iron to about 20 feet.

Then I birdied No. 11.  I hit pitching wedge to about ten feet    or actually, I bogeyed 10.  I hit in the bunker off my drive.  Hit it out to about, I don't know, 8 iron, 145 issue, and then didn't get it up and down from there.

Birdied number 15.  I hit a gap wedge to about a foot.

Then birdied 17.  I hit an 8 iron to about 20 feet.
Q.  Any of those putts just a thriller that broke a long way?
PAT HURST:  No.  I didn't have any of those putts today.  Maybe tomorrow or Sunday.  18 or something.  I don't know.  But no, nothing    no, nothing.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Thanks, Pat.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT