MICHELOB ULTRA OPEN AT KINGSMILL
May 11, 2006
Pat Hurst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PAT HURST:  I birdied No. 2.  I hit 7 iron over, and then I chipped in from 35 feet.

7 I hit 7 wood to 40 feet, 2 putted.

8, I hit pitching wedge to 15 feet.

9, I was in the bunker off the tee.  I hit 9 iron to about 30, 35 feet and 3 putted.

15, I hit lob wedge to a foot.
Q.  Generally speaking, pleased with your performance today?
PAT HURST:  Yeah, I played well.  I was pretty consistent out there.  Basically the only mistake I really made was on my last hole with the 3 putt, but, you know, with the rain, I thought it wasn't going to be as fast and it was fast.  Just misjudged it, misjudged the putt, I should say.
Q.  How have you been playing this year?
PAT HURST:  Okay.  The first part of the year is tough because I had the kids.  Once I get going, I feel like I can get into a routine, and that really helps me out a lot.
Q.  Do you feel like you're into that routine now?
PAT HURST:  Definitely.  I've been gone from home, this has been my fifth week, so just getting back into the swing of things and playing every day and trying to minimize my mistakes, mental mistakes.  The more I play, hopefully the less mistakes I make.
Q.  I know the LPGA has the day care, do you use that?
PAT HURST:  Definitely.
Q.  Especially on a weekend like this, where you particularly want to be with your kids, how big of a benefit is that?
PAT HURST:  I mean, it's great.  I can probably do it with a in any but then you're adding another person and it feels like your family just keeps getting larger.  I think for me it works out well.  You know, I can have Reilly and Jackson in there when I'm out playing, and when I'm done, I can be mom.  So I can have them on the road with me and still be mom and still have a career.
Q.  At one point this used to be one of the few places that offered child care services.  Is that more the norm now at LPGA tournaments?
PAT HURST:  We have them at every event    and it's the same people.
Q.  Same as in years past?
PAT HURST:  With the LPGA, yeah.  With the men, I don't know.
Q.  It sounds like a preschool in a way.
PAT HURST:  In a way.  It's the same people every week, so you can't ask for anything better than that.  We're trying to get them into, I wouldn't say a routine, but get them as comfortable every week as you can, you know, like we're at home.

So they try to set us up with the same people every week and it's the same kids every week, so that's what they are used to.
Q.  What's your favorite club in your bag?
PAT HURST:  I'd say my putter.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT