FRANKLIN AMERICAN MORTGAGE CHAMPIONSHIP
May 7, 2006
Pat Hurst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PAUL ROVNAK:  Terrific finish, five birdies in a row forerunner up finish this week.  You must be pleased with that, talk about your day and we'll take some questions.
PAT HURST:  I got off to a shaky start, bogeyed the first two holes and actually I didn't have a par until I think No. 6.  But you know just got off to a slow start and then came on strong at the end.
Q.  How did you like your try there on No. 18, the putt, it looked like you were making a strong run at the hole, just came up a little bit short there.  What was your thought process at that time?
PAT HURST:  Well, I looked up at the board and Cristie was at 19.  So at that point, really, unless something bad really happened, it was    we just wanted two putts and if it goes in, great.  If it doesn't, just hopefully make a 2 putt.
Q.  What happened there at the end, what started clicking for you in the final five holes?
PAT HURST:  I don't know, if I knew what happened, it would have been a lot earlier.  I played the back nine pretty well and had a lot of confidence going to the back side.  I was just patient.

You know, my caddie just keeps me in a positive mode, and we were pretty loose out there all day.  But, you know, just once I made one putt on the back side and got it back to even and then went to 1 under, it seemed like the hole got a lot bigger for me.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Take us over your score card, Pat.
PAT HURST:  No. 3, I hit 7 iron to about 15 feet.

1, I hit it short right on my second shot.  Didn't get it up and down.  Then 2, I hit it in the water left off the tee and then made bogey that way.

4, I 3 putted No. 4.

5, I hit a 9 iron to 20 feet.

14, I hit gap wedge to about 15 feet.

15, I hit 8 iron to about 12 feet.

16, I hit 7 iron to about 10 feet.

17, gap wedge to ten feet.

18, I hit 4 iron on to the green.  I don't know how far.
PAUL ROVNAK:  About 50 feet maybe?
PAT HURST:  Yeah.  And the birdie putt was a tap in.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT