FRANKLIN AMERICAN MORTGAGE CHAMPIONSHIP
May 6, 2006
Pat Hurst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Thanks again, Pat, for coming in.  You had a 66 today.  You've kind of been a dark horse, keeping steady every day and creeping up the leaderboard and now you're at 13 under.  Talk about your round.
PAT HURST:  I played pretty steady and played well obviously on the back side.  I played pretty steady and I felt very comfortable out here on this golf course.

THE MODERATOR:  Let's go over your scorecard.
PAT HURST:  No. 7 was my first birdie.  3 wood up to the green and chipped up to about 5 feet.

No. 10, I hit 8 iron to about six feet.

No. 13, I hit 7 iron to about a foot.

15, I hit wedge to about six feet.

And 17, I hit gap wedge to about a foot.

And then 18, I hit it on.  It was 226.  I hit 5 foot to 35, 40 feet and 2 putted.
Q.  You said you felt comfortable out here.  Does that go back to winning here?
PAT HURST:  Yes.  I think any time you win at a place you feel comfortable.  I step up there and you see good shots because you've done it before and it's always nice to come back to that.  Like I said, I feel very comfortable out here.
Q.  How key was it to post a good score today with Angela keeping herself atop of the board and putting together a couple of birdies of your own today?
PAT HURST:  I'm just trying to go out and play my game.  I really don't    I know Angela was doing pretty good.  I think she's well above us.  Tomorrow who knows what's going to happen.  The weather is going to be bad, from what I understand.  I'm going to go out and do the same thing tomorrow, just try to make as many birdies as I can out here and wherever that takes me is fine.  Angela has to keep up with it.  She's known to play well from the start to the end.
Q.  You mentioned the weather.  Any sense of urgency today to play well since you know it's going to be bad tomorrow?
PAT HURST:  Yesterday was supposed to be pretty bad.  You know, I don't want to think that we    who knows what's going to happen tomorrow.  Like I said, I'm just going to go out and figure it's going to be another beautiful day here and sleep well and just look forward to tomorrow.  At least we have 18 more holes.
Q.  How were the conditions?
PAT HURST:  The conditions are pretty good.  The course is drying up a little bit.  The conditions, considering all the rain we had earlier, and I don't know what it has been in the last couple of weeks, but I know earlier in the week it was pretty bad.  Conditions are fine.
Q.  Do you keep up with the newspaper to see how different media take cover of the Tour or are you looking at the stocks?
PAT HURST:  I do the Soduko, to be honest.  And I like looking at scores and stuff, but I read the paper at home and I read it on the road, and I just try to keep up with everyday life and see what's going on out there.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT