THE NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 24, 2001
Pat Hurst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PAT HURST:  I birdied No.  1.  Hit wedge from 115 yards to about 12 feet.  Bogeyed No.  3.  I hit it in the left rough off my drive.  I had about 180 yards.  I hit 6-iron just short of the green and didn't get it up and down.  I bogeyed No.  7.  I was 165 yards.  I hit 7-iron just long, then I 3-putted from there.  Bogeyed No.  12.  I hit it left in the rough off my drive.  Hit it into the bunker.  Hooked it around the trees and it hit into the bunker.  Didn't get it up and down there.  I birdied No.  13.  I hit it in the right trees this time and had 5-iron.  Actually punched a 5-iron 161 yards up there and made the putt for birdie.  I'd say it was about ten feet.  Then I bogeyed 14.  I hit a 9-iron 141 yards.  It was a little bit long on the right side.  Probably about, I'd say, 30 feet.  That was it.  
 
PAT HURST:  Overall I didn't putt well today like I was putting the last two days.  It seemed like I was hitting the ball a little further away from the hole than Thursday, Friday.  I didn't take advantage of the times that I needed to.  I 3-putted both 2 and 11 after knocking it on in 2, the two par 5's, and that was a little frustrating, I think.  Overall, you know, I think I need to work on my putting a little bit.  
 
Q.  Was it the frustration that spilled over on 14?  Have you thought of pitching professionally (laughter)?  That's where you threw the ball in the lake, right? 
 
PAT HURST:  I don't remember that hole.  No, there was a lot of frustrations out there.  I think after I 3-putted 11, it was very frustrating, you know, the second time I 3-putted for par.  I mean, I hit it about, I'd say, 20 feet on that hole, and I 3-putted.  That's not fun.  Then I made bogey  -- proceeded to make bogey on the next hole after not getting it up and down out of the bunker.  When I made birdie on 13, I started getting a little more drive again, kind of shot myself in the foot again with the three-putt again on the par 3.  That i think is where the frustration maxed out.  
 
Q.  Seemed like a lot of people were having trouble with their putting.  Was it something with the greens? 
 
PAT HURST:  You know, the last two days, I had really good speed.  It seemed like I didn't have really good speed.  Everything was going way by the hole.  I tried to adjust, and then I was way short.  It was like that almost on every hole.  It was really frustrating to try and get the ball to the hole.  Once I did, it would go by four or five feet.  I'm having to save par or what have you.  I don't know if the greens were faster or if my touch was off a little bit.  I couldn't tell you.  
 
Q.  Despite all that, you're one shot back going into the last round, which is where you probably would have loved to have been Thursday morning.  Do you think these are things that  -- your putting problems are things that will change tomorrow? 
 
PAT HURST:  I think so.  I've had some tough third rounds.  You know, the last two weeks I had third round, both times, Phoenix and Tucson, I didn't play well, and I didn't play well here.  This time I kept myself in it.  I'm still only one back.  You know, I've been playing my final rounds pretty good, so I'm looking forward to tomorrow and see how I can, you know, do out there.  
 
Q.  How will you sort out your putting?  Will you go onto the putting greens for how long or just go home?  How will you decide whether it was your touch?
 
PAT HURST:  I'll just go out to the putting green for a little while still I feel comfortable.  When I feel comfortable, then I'll go home.  You know, it won't be that long. 
 
Q.  Do you feel like you're due to win this year?
 
PAT HURST:  I feel pretty good about my game.  I've been working pretty hard.  You know, I've got a new instructor that I started going to at the end  -- it's been about a year now.  I saw Mike last week.  I feel pretty good about my game.  We've been working on the same things that I worked on for the last 20 years.  It's kind of nice that I'm hearing  -- I'm working on the same things, but I'm hearing it from a different person.  It makes it nice.  Plus he comes out a lot on tour.  He sees me in competition.  That really helps.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT