THE NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 23, 2001
Pat Hurst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PAT HURST:  No. 2 I hit 3-wood.  I was about 214 to the pin.  I hit it to about 20 feet and 2-putted for birdie.  Birdied No. 6, hit 7-iron from 158 yards to about 30 feet.  I birdied No. 7.  I hit 6-iron from 10 six feet  to about 20 feet. Birdied No. 11, I hit a 3-wood from 244 yards to about 20 feet, 2-putted:  Bogeyed 15, I hit it right in the trees ended up just short of the green didn't get it up-and-down.  Chipped it by about five feet and missed the putt. I birdied 16.  I had 121 yards and I hit wedge to about four feet. 

Q.  How did your day go out there?

PAT HURST:  I played pretty consistent out there today other than I missed the fairway on 12, chipped out and made par there and I also missed the fairway on 15 again.  But other than that, played pretty consistent, hit a lot of fairways, a lot of greens. 

Q.  Coming into a tournament like this, are you playing off your previous win to have expectations of winning this time, your Nabisco win previously, is that memory impacting you this week?

PAT HURST:  Any time - I think any course that you win at, you know, when you step up to the tee you feel comfortable out there or else  -- I don't think I would have won if I didn't feel comfortable.  So, I do enjoy coming here and I look forward to playing in this event.  So I wouldn't say that I am feeding off of 1998, but I do like coming here.  I feel very comfortable on the course. 

Q.    Watching you on the front nine making the birdies at 6 and 7, you still have a pretty good little cheering section that follows you around here.  How many contacts do you still have and does that help make you feel comfortable out there?

PAT HURST:  Actually out here this week I have a lot of family and friends from the Bay area and also from the La Quinta so I do have a family here that we stay with every time we come into town.  They are like our second parents here and I do feel very comfortable here.  It is like my second home and we do visit often.  We came in December and we will come again in a couple of weeks.  I still have a lot of contacts in this area.

Q.  When did you play this course for the first time in your life?

PAT HURST:  I wanted to say I played the Dinah Shore in -- I want to say it was 1988, maybe.  I am not sure.  I think around 1988.  I played twice as an amateur. I think it was 1988 and I also played maybe in 1991 as an amateur.

Q.  Looking at the leaderboard, four shots is a precious few, but does it feel like a lot more?

PAT HURST:  It doesn't feel like enough.  Out here anything can happen with two rounds left.  I think I feel comfortable going into Sunday with a 4-shot lead but there's still a lot of golfers out there left to play.  But I don't think any lead is too big out at a major championship with the rough being as high as it is and the conditions as tough as they are, I don't think any amount of lead is large enough.

Q.  Are you surprised that nobody else has gotten good scoring -- (inaudible)?

PAT HURST:  I am a little bit.  The greens are lot softer.  They are still firm but they are a lot softer than they have been in the past.  But the rough is up and if you are not keeping it in the fairway it is tough.  But I am just surprised there aren't some lower scores out there.  But you never know, like I said, there is two more rounds so we will see how it goes.

Q.  You played very consistently in the majors last year but didn't have a real spectacular finish.  Talk about that last year, how you played the majors, did you feel like you were aggressive enough?

PAT HURST:  Last year in the majors I didn't play as well as I played in let's say in 1998, but I just I feel like I have the length to play and I feel like I am strong enough to hit it out of the rough so I can get away with a little bit of being a little erratic at times, but yet par 5s sometimes I can knock on in 2 and stuff like that which I did twice today.  I think that is where I can make up a lot of shots versus being a little bit of a shorter hitter where you can't really make up those shots and like I said if I knocked it in the rough, I still have a chance to get out on the green. I just try -- in most majors the rough is up, but I try to play mostly at the angles where I have a good angle into the greens where the pin is more accessible.  Even if it is in the rough a little bit I feel like I still have the angle into the green and I am strong enough to get out of the rough.  I think that has helped me out a great deal in the major championships. 

Q.  Do you think you are much different of a player than when you won here the last time; do you think much has changed?

PAT HURST:  In 1998 I felt like I had complete control of my game.  I was playing well.  I felt very comfortable.  I felt comfortable right now.  My life is a little bit different than it was in 1998.  But I think in a better way.  But you know, I don't know, I feel like I am in control and I felt like I was in control in 1998 also.

Q.  You talk about the length on the par 5s.  Is length is a huge deal on the PGA TOUR now.  Those that have it versus those that don't.  Is it the same on the LPGA Tour?

PAT HURST:  There is not, you know, a lot of our courses -- I mean, both par 5s I have to hit 3-woods into.  We are not hitting irons into them, but that is where I feel like I can have an advantage over some other players.  But the shorter hitters seem like they are more accurate.  So it all depends on how you look at it.  I do think length is an advantage, but at times it can be a disadvantage too. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT