THE NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 25, 2000
Pat Hurst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







PAT HURST: I hit the ball pretty good today. Actually the last three days, I hit 14
greens today, and I know the last two days -- I hit 14 greens and 15 greens the last two
days. I'm hitting the ball pretty good, and it's just a matter of making some putts.
Today, I made a couple more putts, obviously since I shot 2-under instead of even par. So
overall, I'm hitting the ball good. I had bogeyed No. 3. I hit it just short of --
actually I hit in the bunker, short, and didn't get it up-and-down. Birdied No. 7. I hit
8-iron to about five feet and made the putt. Birdied No. 10 with the 8-iron to about six
feet. And then birdied 12 with a 6-iron to about 20 feet. And then I had a bogey
somewhere. I bogeyed 13. I hit it right off the tee and tried to punch it through the
trees, hit it left and couldn't get it up-and-down from the rough. And then I birdied 18.
I hit a U-wedge to about five feet.

Q. What are your thoughts going into tomorrow? Obviously, probably looking at the
leaderboard a little bit, but what are your general thoughts?

PAT HURST: Tomorrow, I think I saw Karrie just go to 12( -under). So basically, we're
playing for second place. But I'm just going out and try to do the best I can and not
worry about second place, first place, fifth place. Just go out and just try to do the
same thing I've been doing the same thing I've been doing today and the last two days try,
and hit it on the fairway and hit it on the green and try to make some putts.

Q. Does that mean that you won't be aware of playing with a 13-year-old? Are you going
to try to drum her or are you going to take it easy on her tomorrow?

PAT HURST: It doesn't matter who I play with. I just go out and try to do the best I
can. Doesn't bother me if she's 13 -- I'm glad that she is playing that well. To be that
young and play that well is just, you know, is pretty a amazing.

Q. Have you seen her? Are you familiar with her game at all? Seen her on the range or
anything? 

PAT HURST: I saw the two of them, but I don't know who was who. But, no, I don't know
who they are. I've never met them. And if we're in the same group tomorrow, I'll be
honored. 

Q. I'm just curious about something. There seems to be a tremendous number of Asian
players who are just coming up. Can you help me understand, you know, is there -- I mean,
what's going on here? Any clue? 

PAT HURST: I would have to say it's for foreign players than just Asian. Obviously,
Australians, just foreign players in general, I think there's a lot more out there now,
and it's, you know it seems like their programs are getting a lot better. And I think with
one good player coming out of there, next thing you know you have two, three and four. I
think they just kind of follow each other. I think that's the way it is. I think once one
person shows the way, I think it makes it a lot easier. You have someone to look up to and
that's what you want to strive for. I think with Karrie -- with Greg Norman, and I think
it helps. Definitely if it's a woman golfer, with a Korean, look at Se Ri is the big
thing, and now look at Kimmie, and who is it this year -- Grace Park. I mean, it's one
after another. And I think it goes in cycles. 

Q. As I recall, you were an excellent junior player yourself, and just wondering if you
can give us any insight into what it's like to be 13 years old and to be in a position,
where these women are? 

PAT HURST: I can't tell you. I was never 13 playing that good. Even when I was here at
17 years old, looking back now, I don't know if I was prepared to play here when I was 17
years old. It was more like a dream come true for me, and just an opportunity for me to
play out here and see what the pros play like. 13 years, I can't tell you what's going
through her mind or how well-prepared she is. Obviously, she is playing some good golf.
She's shown it; she's proven it. Like when I was here when I was 17, looking back, I
didn't have the game that I do now, you know, and the experience. And I think this can
only help her. I mean, it just -- it just can keep elevating her game a little bit more to
get a lot of experience like this. 

Q. I know when you won here two years ago, the weather wasn't quite as good. Is the
golf course playing all that much tougher now or was it just that the weather was so much
worse when you won it? 

PAT HURST: I remember when I won, it was windy and wet. You know, this year, the rough
is up; so you've got to keep it in the fairway. But, you know, the wind hasn't kicked up.
It was up earlier in the week, Monday. But overall, the wind has not kicked up that much,
and it's definitely not playing as long as it was the year that I had won, just because it
rained. I think it rained a couple days when we played. I even want to say it rained on
Sunday when we played.

Q. How did you get here as a 17-year-old? 

PAT HURST: I had won the U.S. juniors.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT