THE SOLHEIM CUP
September 18, 1998
Pat Hurst
Rosie Jones
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. First of all, Pat, that was impressive.
 
PAT HURST:  Yeah, I played well today and my two partners, Kelly and Rosie over here, we played really well.  We were teamed up pretty good and you have to thank Judy for that.  She knows what she is doing. 
  
 
Q. Quite an emotional day.
 
ROSIE JONES:  Yeah, I think once I get on the golf course, I'm relaxed.  So it's the morning before, I'm pretty monster-like.  Getting on to the golf course, then I'm fine. 
  
 
Q. Congratulations.
 
ROSIE JONES:  On that front 9, birdied 7, 8, 9 on my own.  From there, we just played really solidly and, actually, missed the putt on 11, a four-footer that would have helped close it down.  It was kind of a downhill slider and I missed it and played good shots all the way through.  Yeah, I just -- a few of us really didn't have anything good today and Pat really started off our round really solid.  I was -- it's not quite there yet but when it turned around and it was my turn, I picked it up.  When I started to tee off early this morning, she was just fine.  I think she was a little bit rushed from one match to the next and she just -- she was my calming factor out there, actually.  I get pretty excited and very nervous at the beginning of a round and I remember at the beginning of the round, she made it very easy for me to settle down and get into a round. 
  
 
Q. (inaudible) -- do you empathize at all --
 
PAT HURST:  I do.  I've never been in that position in match-play, so I really don't know how she feels.  But with the partner deal, this morning was tough, but this afternoon is a little bit easier when  you can -- when you know you can rely on your partner for the hole.  Definitely, this afternoon was a little bit more relaxing. 
  
 
Q. What is it about match-play?
 
PAT HURST:  I don't know what it is.  We just -- match-play, you've got to start off really hot and that's what we -- that's what Kelly and I did and that's what Rosie and I did.  I think that it's important to -- I guess, in match-play and you've got to get the momentum going your way in both matches, I guess. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT