U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 13, 1995
Pat Hurst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PAT HURST: Half. 
 
PAT HURST: What do you want to know? 
 
PAT HURST: 1st hole I started out, I hit a little bit left and I was underneath some trees.  Hit it out; knocked it up there; 2-putted for bogey.  I came back with a birdie on 2.  It was tap birdie.  Then on 3 again -- 
 
PAT HURST: I don't remember. 
 

Q.   How far?
 
PAT HURST: If I would remember how far, I think I would remember what club was used.  It was a tap in.  Then on 3 again, I hit it in the right trees this time instead of the left and I knocked it out next to the green and didn't get it up-and-down.  Had another 2-putt for another bogey.  Then my next birdie came on 5 with another tap.  Since I don't know how far, I am not used to the golf course yet so I don't know which holes are what, so it is very difficult to remember.  On 8, I think I hit an 8-iron on 8, par 3; knocked it up there about 10 feet, and made birdie. Everything else after that was all pars.  
 
PAT HURST: I had a couple.  Oh, on 9, par 5, I was going for the green in 2; hit my second shot in the water; dropped it; hit sand wedge up there 'til about 10 feet; made the putt for par.  So that was a good save right there.  10, I was short in two, chipped up; saved my par right there; and then I hit all the greens all the way up until 18.  Again, then I chipped up and 1-putted again. 
 
PAT HURST: I came in on Tuesday, so I went right out as soon as I got in.  I got in about 2 o'clock and teed off about 2:30, so that was a quick 18 there and then I also played on Wednesday; played 15 holes.  I skipped the first three holes and then I have never played in the Broadmoor before so that was the first two times I have played it. 
 
PAT HURST: The greens are definitely fast  going down grain and away from -- with the monument up on the hill, but going against that, it does not slow you, but it is a good pace, but you definitely want to be below the hole. 
 

Q.   Any wind?
 
PAT HURST: A little bit of wind on the backside.  I want to say it started probably around 4 or 5.  I am not sure what hole it started on, but probably about a club difference, you know, half a club.  I wouldn't say a full club. 
 
PAT HURST: I have been hitting the ball real well.  Last couple of tournaments, I have been hitting the ball really well, hadn't been putting as well, so I knew I was going to hit the ball well.  I didn't know how the putting was going to be.  If you are on the right side of the hole, par is your friend out here. 
 

Q.   Patty, it is the Women's Open; one under is supposed to be good.  You are the first group.  What do you think?  Do you think one under at 3 o'clock is going to be just as good as it is now?
 
PAT HURST: I hope so.  It is hard to say what is going to be good out there.  Anybody can get hot out there and throw in a good round.  Like I said, if you are on the right side of the hole, the putts are rolling pretty good, so it is hard to say what is going to be a good score out here. 
 

Q.   For some of us who were at the USGA, we know you from winning the Women's Amateur here, you are doing well again.  Take us through the lean years in the middle as to where you went emotionally and how you fought back to be where you are now?
 
PAT HURST: After winning the amateur, that was -- I won the amateur after I one the N.C.A.A.s.  I felt that was a lot of pressure going into it.  As I turned pro, I felt a lot of pressure and it wasn't -- it was just outside pressures that, I guess, I was putting on myself.  So, I wasn't enjoying golf as much, and kind of put the clubs away for about a year; didn't touch them at all and then got a teaching pro job at a country club and started playing a little bit more there and got interest in the game again and getting a little itch and that is what made me go to qualifying school and start playing again. 
 

Q.   Where is your game now compared to where it was when you were a reigning amateur champion?
 
PAT HURST: You know, making the LPGA was probably one of my biggest accomplishments that I have ever done.  I think playing every week really helps me  out a lot and it gives you a lot of confidence.  When I first started, I just wanted to make the cuts and came out the first tournament, tied for 9th.  That kind of boosted my confidence up.  So I felt real confident out here now.  It is not more of making cuts; it is more of how well can I do out there. 
 

Q.   Did you feel a little bit of disappointment or frustration of seeing people that you had beaten as an amateur doing well?
 
PAT HURST: No, you know, like I said, I was happy putting the clubs down so I wasn't frustrated.  I knew that it was the right thing for me, so I was -- it wasn't frustrating at all for me. 
 

Q.   Lots of people say when you put your clubs away, there is a lot of pressure on you to start playing again or did people just say, oh, leave her alone for a bit?
 
PAT HURST: At first there was, but, you know, after -- I guess after so many months, people just kind of -- I wouldn't say forget about you, but they don't bother you anymore because they know that no matter what they say, they are not going to change your decision; that I made a decision that I didn't want to play at that time and they respected me for that; respected me for standing up for myself.  
 

Q.   Did you play any other games in that time or how did you stay fit?
 
PAT HURST: I actually went and hung out with my fiancee and he was going to school at the time, so I was kind of being, I guess, the housewife, even though I wasn't a wife yet, and I am still not, but, you know, I felt like I was being the housewife and was really enjoying it. 
 

Q.   Was there any point during that time, Pat, that you questioned whether you had the ability to make it or not?
 
PAT HURST: There was times when I knew that I can compete with everybody out here, so, I don't know, you know, I don't know how to put it, but I knew I could compete out here.  It was just a matter of getting out on the LPGA.  USGA -- we only have one tournament for the USGA for The Open now, so my goal, you know, was to make the LPGA and I knew that I could compete with them.  It was just a matter of getting out there and that was the hardest part. 
 

Q.   I am a little bit confused.  Did you intend to give it up at that point or were you just taking a little hiatus?
 
PAT HURST: At that point, I didn't know whether I was going to give it up or not, that is why I  went to teaching.  I wanted to stay in golf.  I have been in golf all my life, so I wanted to stay in golf and if I wanted to get back into it, I was at a good club and I know it had good practice facilities and people were real good around there, so I didn't know which way I was going to go and it was still up in the air. 
 

Q.   Also timeframe.  When you quit and then when you got "the itch" and came back out, when was that?
 
PAT HURST: The itch came about last year during, actually, The Open qualifier.  I went out.  I did have a little problem with my stomach.  They diagnosed it as a nervous stomach, so I was having problems with that.  I went out for The Open qualifier last year and shot 80, but I felt good.  So, I knew before all the pressure that was on me and now I am going back out because I want to go back out; not because of everybody putting the pressure on me, so it made a big difference. 
 

Q.   When you hung up the clubs, when was that?
 
PAT HURST: That was probably about a year and a half ago, you know, up until last year. 
 

Q.   Again, Pat, timeframe, you'd won the amateur, won the N.C.A.A.'s, turned pro.  How long did you play  before you put the clubs away?
 
PAT HURST: I went to qualifying school twice and then was supposed to go back.  I was supposed to go back the third time and I sent in my money and everything and, like I said, my stomach wasn't feeling good, I just said, you know, the doctor told me it would be best if, you know, over time it will go away if you just let it, but I needed to take time off; that is why I didn't go back to the third qualifying school so that was -- it is not last year but -- 
 

Q.   Turned pro?
 
PAT HURST: -- the year before. 
 

Q.   Two years as a pro, you put the clubs away?
 
PAT HURST: Right. 
 

Q.   Pat, if we could just go back to today's round for a second what were the par putts, how far were they that you missed on 1 and 3?
 
PAT HURST: 1 was probably about a 30-footer.  3 was probably about a 10-footer downhill. 
 

Q.   Any close birdie opportunities on the back?
 
PAT HURST: 17 I lipped out.  I was about seven feet or so; lipped out there.  There was, you know, a couple other that was probably about 15 feet. 
 

Q.   The one on 18, how far?
 
PAT HURST: That was probably about 3 feet.  
 
PAT HURST: Yeah, what we tried to do everyone was saying 10%, so basically what we were trying to do is you know, we take the full yardage and then take off 10%, then you kind of eye it and look at it and say, do you think I can hit it, and, you know, my caddie knows my game pretty good, so it really helps out a lot. 
 
PAT HURST: Pretty much, yes, it did. ? 
 

Q.   You were in the first very first group off the tee?
 
PAT HURST: Yes. 
 

Q.   What did that feel like being the first group at the Women's Open?
 
PAT HURST: It was great. 
 

Q.   Any special feelings say, hey, I am back and look where I am?
 
PAT HURST: Not -- I didn't have feelings like that.  Like I said, I made it on the LPGA, so this is my 12th event, so I mean, it wasn't something of that sort.  It was more like "this is great."  We are out there.  We are the first group, nobody is out here; we are going to play in about 3 and a half hours, you  know, the greens -- no one has been on the greens except for us, so that is the best part about the whole deal about being the first group out. 
 
PAT HURST: Three hours and 40 minutes. 
 

Q.   Twofold, Pat.  First off, did the course play differently today than it has in practice and secondly you hoped that one under is good enough at 7 o'clock tonight.  Do you feel a load of pressure having gotten the first round out and underway and in on minus 1?
 
PAT HURST: The golf course is playing a lot different today than it did in the practice rounds.  I went out yesterday pretty early.  I got here about 7:30 and teed off on number 4 about 7:40 or so and it was still a little hard, the greens were hard and seemed like today the greens were a little bit softer, so you can fly it there.  I backed up a couple.  I backed up one, I think, on 15 and you know, couple of different holes I was backing them up, and during the practice rounds it wasn't like that. 
 

Q.   Do you feel a relief from the pressure of playing in this tournament getting the first round underway with a minus 1 score? 
 
PAT HURST: It is always good to start out with a good score, you know, it is -- it does take off a little pressure and it feels good. 
 

Q.   Does that mean too that the greens were rolling a little slower today than it -- and the greens weren't as quite as quick?
 
PAT HURST: Like I said earlier, I was trying to put the ball below the pin or away from the shrine and that really helped out a lot. 
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT