BIG EAST CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 11, 2010
Jim Boeheim
Scoop Jardine
Andy Rautins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Georgetown  - 91
  Syracuse  - 84

 THE MODERATOR: Coach Jim Boeheim, Scoop Jardine and Andy Rautins. 
 COACH JIM BOEHEIM: Yeah, I thought that Georgetown really played well tonight. The first game we controlled the game. The second game we controlled about 30 minutes. And then they started to get the ball into Monroe and they did that tonight from the beginning we had difficulty with it. We just couldn't get enough stops. And I think we made some bad turnovers throughout the course of the game. But I told the players I think Georgetown is capable of beating anybody any night. They've proven that this year. 
 I thought they played extremely well. I thought we played well on offense. We just didn't get any stops defensively when we needed to. I thought we battled as hard as we could and it just wasn't our day. 
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Jim, what do you know at this point on Arinze? 
 COACH JIM BOEHEIM: He has a strain. We don't know for sure if it's any more than that. We'll find out Monday. We'll try to find out tomorrow when we get home and get an MRI tomorrow. 

 Q. Jim, how does him being out of the lineup really change your team? 
 COACH JIM BOEHEIM: Well, he's a key part of our team. I mean, he's had a great year. And he's a tremendous player. We hope that he'll be fine. We don't know. 

 Q. The turnovers, especially in the first half, was it sometimes from overpassing? 
 COACH JIM BOEHEIM: No. Post people did not have good games. We had ten turnovers in the post. We haven't done that really all year. That was part of it, but it was more I think on the defensive end. We didn't get some stops that we needed to. 
 But again, Georgetown attacks zones very well. Teams in our league at this stage of the year know how to attack us. We're looking forward to get out and play somebody that hasn't seen us. 

 Q. Jim, when Georgetown is trying to attack that zone, how important is Monroe and what he's able to do in the middle? 
 COACH JIM BOEHEIM: He's the best inside passer in college basketball easily. And he can score in there. I thought overall we didn't do a bad job with him. I think Chris Wright had a big night. He really had a great game. I thought when he plays like that, that's when they beat people.

 Q. For Andy and Scoop, Wes (Johnson) really had another great game. Something we haven't really seen from him since he got hurt. How much easier is it playing with a guy who is able to let you guys take some of that pressure off? 
 SCOOP JARDINE: It's an honor to play with a guy like Wes, and his capabilities that he brings to our team. But I think Wes was playing good for us all year even when he was hurt. So tonight he just showed what he can do offensively. He's been playing good defensively and offensively all year. 

 Q. Is it easier though to play when you guys don't have to take as many shots and you've got a guy who can go out and put up 25? 
 SCOOP JARDINE: Yeah, it's a lot easier. I think I have to do a better job of getting him the ball more when he's hot like that. 

 Q. Andy, can you talk about what you saw against you defensively between the first and second half? 
 ANDY RAUTINS: I mean they penetrated the gaps in the second half. They did a good job of finding Monroe. Like Coach said, he's one of the best inside passers in college basketball. So he's dangerous whenever he gets a lot of post touches. I don't think we did a good job of keeping them out. They did a good job of spreading us out in the second half, too. 
 Like I said, Georgetown is a great team. Just going to have to pick our heads up and move forward from here. 

 Q. For each of the players, and your opinions may be different, but do you prefer having games closer together in terms of number of days apart? 
 ANDY RAUTINS: I mean I don't think it matters to us. I think we're a focused team. We just want to focus on the next game. That's what our motto has been all season. Regardless of if we have games back to back or a week apart. If not, we have great practices in between. Our team is excellent at focusing and going hard in practice. And we're also good at playing back-to-back games. I don't think we have any preference. We just come to play. 
 SCOOP JARDINE: Same thing. 

 Q. For all three, please: Does this outcome do anything to diminish your optimism into the Tournament? 
 COACH JIM BOEHEIM: No, not at all. 
 SCOOP JARDINE: No.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT