TOSTITOS FIESTA BOWL: STANFORD v OKLAHOMA STATE
December 30, 2011
Justin Blackmon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  JUSTIN BLACKMON:   We will have to go out there and execute and keep the turnovers to a minimum.

Q.   It is the last college game for the Weeden and Blackmon hookup.   Have you envisioned what you would like to see between you guys? 
JUSTIN BLACKMON:   Not really.   Like I said, we got a game plan and we are going to go out there and execute it.   We will not try to do anything out of the ordinary just because it is Brandon's last game or because it is my last game or could be my last game or this is the last time we are on the field together. 
We are not going to do anything out of the ordinary.   We will run the same offense we have been running all year and just try to execute all the plays.

Q.   Would you like to see maybe two of those Weeden into the Blackmon lobs? 
JUSTIN BLACKMON:   I'm not going to‑‑ of course, I would love to see some of those (smiling).

Q.   Do you know who Griff Whalen is? 
JUSTIN BLACKMON:   No.

Q.   He is Stanford's leading receiver.   You obviously don't have to worry about their offense.   But tell me‑‑ talk to me about as a guy who has so much talent, comes in, how hard is it for a walk‑on to get nervous in practice? 
JUSTIN BLACKMON:   It is very hard.   Every time that somebody comes on scholarship they kind of get thrown in front of you.   It is always you got to work your way up from the bottom and try to get up there to the top. 
So, as I said, it is very difficult.

Q.   Talk to me about reps in practice, when you are running the first team, every drill you do, you are probably the first guy in the drill, right? 
JUSTIN BLACKMON:   Right.

Q.   It is a pecking order that everyone sees.   How aware is everybody of that pecking order? 
JUSTIN BLACKMON:   I wouldn't say‑‑ I mean, it is more of like if you are going to be the leader and you are going to call yourself leader, I think you have to be up in the pecking order. 
You got to lead by example.   I try to be the first one up there for every drill because I know I might have just gone doing it, but I know I'm supposed to be the leader of this group whether I'm tired or not.   I got to get up there and lead by example.

Q.   And the coach uses you as the guy‑‑ if you are not doing it, picks on you and everybody else‑‑
JUSTIN BLACKMON:   Everybody else leads from there.   If my attitude is bad, then everybody's attitudes follow from that.   I try to go with a positive attitude and just try to do everything 100 percent and you let them know that this is what we're here to do. 

Q.   Tell me, did you watch the game last night? 
JUSTIN BLACKMON:   I did.

Q.   What were you thinking as you were watching that? 
JUSTIN BLACKMON:   I was thinking probably the same thing everyone was.   It was an exciting game.   Like I said, I couldn't turn it off.   I watched it, the whole game.   It was an excited game to watch.   There wasn't a lot of defense being played. 
But, like I said, it was a high‑scoring game.   It could have gone either way up until then.   It was a very exciting game to watch.

Q.   What does it mean for Oklahoma State to break through into the BCS‑level teams?   Do you feel like a sense of accomplishment?   Do you feel like you have helped bring this program to a tier it hadn't been before? 
JUSTIN BLACKMON:   I think it means a lot to this team and Oklahoma State in general for us to break into the BCS thing.
I mean, it is kind of‑‑ we built on from each year and we have gotten better each year.   I think some of our seniors back when I was a freshman, it was instilled.   We were going to be better than the group that just left.   So we built on that from there. 

Q.   I was asking the guys about the Tulsa game and how strange it was to be out on the field at 3:00 in the morning.   What do you remember? 
JUSTIN BLACKMON:   I remember being locked in a little locker room for hours and about ready to kill myself.   It was horrible.   And I don't eat peanut butter and jelly, so I didn't eat.   I ate four pieces of bread.

Q.   Do you have a nut allergy? 
JUSTIN BLACKMON:   I'm allergic to nuts.

Q.   There was nothing else to get? 
JUSTIN BLACKMON:   They thought that was the easiest thing to get.

Q.   Nobody could get a ham sandwich?
JUSTIN BLACKMON:   I ate four loaves of bread.

Q.   How many hours were you in the locker room? 
JUSTIN BLACKMON:   Two, three hours. 

Q.   Out of all the Weeden‑Blackmon passes, do you have one in particular that you liked the most? 
JUSTIN BLACKMON:   I would say the one against Colorado my freshman year.

Q.   The first one?
JUSTIN BLACKMON:   The first one.   Yeah, that was the first one, yeah.   First Weeden‑Blackmon pass.

Q.   That was your favorite? 
JUSTIN BLACKMON:   Yeah, because it set up the one for that game.

Q.   What do you remember about it? 
JUSTIN BLACKMON:   I remember it was a busted play.   And I didn't even play that position that I was in, so I was just kind of running around out there.   And he still threw it up, and luckily I came down with it.

Q.   That touchdown kind of does describe how you guys have played together ever since. 
JUSTIN BLACKMON:   It has.   It is weird how it all played out.   Everything just clicked. 

Q.   Are you in favor of a football playoff? 
JUSTIN BLACKMON:   I think it would be fun.   You would play more games.   Like I said, it doesn't really matter.   Whatever y'all pick or whoever votes for it, we will have to do whatever it is. 
I think it will be cool.   It would shake things up a little bit because you would have to show up every week, week in, week out.   No. 1 team is not guaranteed to make it all the way to the championship.   So I think it would shake it up a little bit and make things more interesting.

Q.   Are you a yes? 
JUSTIN BLACKMON:   I'm an undecided.   BCS has been here for years and I haven't complained about it yet.   I'm not going to start complaining now because it didn't work in our favor. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT