NASCAR SPRINT CUP SERIES: GOODY'S FAST RELIEF 500
October 30, 2016
Richard Buck
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. (Question regarding the running order.) 
RICHARD BUCK: Today was a very dynamic situation. It was unique. We were right in the middle of green‑flag pit stops and we had to go to a caution. That presents one set of issues that we deal with. 
Then from that point, as it moved along, as we started get the lineup as we normally do, it went to another different dynamic when we had the leader run out of fuel. We had to go back in. 
We understand the stakes of the Chase. They're extremely high for everybody. Our job is to get it right. We have a tremendous amount of resources up there. 
We then moved into another dynamic of it, the wave‑arounds. We took our time to make sure we got it right. We feel confident we got it right. 
We'll have conversations with the teams, as we always do, this week to help them understand the lineup. But we have the multiple loops, which are computer‑driven. We have that data that comes to us. We have multiple banks of cameras that are at our disposable in replay systems. We'll time sync those up. That's how we go through that process. We want to make sure we got it right. It took a while. But we feel confident we got it right and we came back to racing. 

Q. I think the main question seems to be why you chose to let it go under caution rather than red flag the race. 
RICHARD BUCK: We'll always look at that. But I think the dynamic of it kept changing. We felt we were headed to a quick resolution in the middle of the green‑flag stops when it went yellow, then that presented us with a completely different set of circumstances. We were at that time focused on making sure we got it right. 
We'll go back and review it like we always do. But we feel good about the lineup and where we got to today. 

Q. Why was Johnson put where he was? 
RICHARD BUCK: There's so many different specifics to it, I don't want to get into each individual specific. We'd like to talk to the teams about it first, help them understand it. 
Like I said, we do feel confident that we got it right based on our resources and our process. 

Q. Was there a point that Steve O'Donnell radioed and said, If any of you get out of line, we're going to put you back? Were the competitors part of this? They try to get everything they can. Talk about that aspect of it. 
RICHARD BUCK: That was not Steve O'Donnell. Our race director was David Hoots. 
He did give that directive to the competitors. That's one of the ways they communicate to us. When a car believes his position is not correct, they're encouraged at a certain time to show us that on the racetrack by going up alongside of him. 
We had so many different things happening today that we had to call a stop to that so we could identify the positions that they were in and then take action to get them in the correct position. That's what you heard over the radio. 

Q. The fans get a little confused over it. How can you make it more simple so they understand the race? 
RICHARD BUCK: Well, I think it's an inherent part of our sport. Our cars move at 200 miles an hour, which is a football field a second. That in itself presents you with a tremendous amount of things that move around dynamically. 
We do want to make it simple, but it is complex and it can be complex. To do that, what we want to do is make sure everybody understands we have 100% confidence that we got it right, that we put the full effort into it. That's what's important to the competitors. 

Q. How do you get that message across? Jeff Gordon after the race said he didn't believe you got it right. He said that after Dover, as well. 
RICHARD BUCK: Sure, like I said, we'll have those conversations. What we'll do is we'll go back and we'll be able to pull up all the resources we have and show them what we based our decision on in the lineup. 
There's a tremendous amount of it that is computer‑generated, that there's no humans really that are making up the lineup like the old scoring days where you write it down. This is based on TV time code, multiple cameras, multiple loop data. 

Q. One of the things that Chad Knaus was saying on the radio during the race, he was confused that there were some guys who pit under green, and the 48 eventually pitted under yellow, and the 48 was behind. I know you don't want to get into specifics, but can you explain how in essence in a general sense a car that pits under yellow is restarting behind a car that pitted under green? 
RICHARD BUCK: There's a lot of rules and regulations that we're guided by, the start/finish line on pit road, then the camera at pit‑out. That brings a new dynamic into it. 
I don't want to get into the specifics of it. But there's a lot of things that play into the way that we position‑‑ a lot of rules that play into the way we position the cars. 
We'll go back and look at that. We'll look at the pit cameras off of pit road versus the time code versus when the caution came out and so on.

Q. Is there a time code on those pit cameras?
RICHARD BUCK: Yes, yes, absolutely.

Q. Kurt Busch restarted sixth. They kept calling out that the 13 was fifth, Kurt Busch was sixth. They were back in the 20s when it restarted. Why did they start so far up?
RICHARD BUCK: Like I said, I don't want to get into all the details. There are so many scenarios. We'll get into that with the teams. We'll review that with ourselves internally, as well. 

Q. When you talk to the competitors, is there something that you moving ahead want to get across as we head out of Martinsville?
RICHARD BUCK: I think that's an important part. But as I said before, we've got machines that do 200 miles an hour. We've got athletes that drive them on the ragged edge. Our sport inherently has a different dynamic than a stick‑and‑ball sport, quite frankly. 
We'll do everything that we can to make sure the fans can understand it. We're pushing ahead on technologies and some behind‑the‑scenes things to have people be able to see behind the scenes, understand them more. 
But a situation like today, I'll say it can be confusing. But we had to make sure that we got it right and we took the time to do the due diligence and get it right, if you will, three different times because we had three different scenarios unfold in that situation. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT