NASCAR SPRINT CUP SERIES: BANK OF AMERICA 500
October 11, 2015
Richard Buck
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  RICHARD BUCK: Well, we always listen to the spotters and the drivers and we get calls all day long, and we've got spotters around the track and officials and clean‑up and stuff and we'll make the rounds over the radio. I'm sure y'all have heard that before. Not only that, but in that instance, we had cleanup‑‑ we actually had men on the ground walking that high groove, and they couldn't see anything. We had the caution car‑‑ Brett, he's very experienced, him and Buster at that, at watching and looking for that. So we got the reports and we looked everywhere including putting people on the ground and walking the area they said the oil was, and there was no oil.  
   
 Q. As you review things, what do you look at moving forward, just because there were a lot of guys that talked about oil on the track at times. You say you didn't find it; obviously somewhere in between there there's a discrepancy one way or the other, that either they were misreading something or what have you, so how do you go moving forward?  
RICHARD BUCK: I don't know that you say anybody misread anything. We all did our jobs, and like I said, we actually had a human being protected by the trucks but walking that area to make sure because we saw the groove was wanting to work up that way. But we do everything we can to bring the surface back to raceable condition, and I think we've got an excellent record of that. Sometimes with some of these lubricants and things they use, there is some staining to the track and we'll go back and do a double check on that with Brett and Buster just to make sure that we have got up all the fluids. We did that today, and we feel absolutely confident that there was no oil up in that very top groove or down below or anywhere else.  
   
 Q. Brett would feel it on his wheels and obviously the course worker would feel it on his shoes if there were oil, right?  
RICHARD BUCK: Not only that, but we've had instances in the past of these cleanup trucks and the sweepers are so heavy and they're on the embankment, if there ever is any kind of stuff that takes away grip, any water or oil or lubricants at all, we've had the trucks on regular occasion, they'll tend to slip and they'll tell us what they're feeling. It really is, it's a bit of a three‑dimensional picture from all of our cleanup, from our human beings, from our caution car driver and spotter that rides with him. The spotter is up top. We take all that in and feel we do a really good job at it.  
   
 Q. The drivers were fairly emphatic after the race. Do you have any explanation for what they might have felt?  
RICHARD BUCK: No, I can't speak to what they felt. We heard through the spotters and through the crew chiefs and things, the report that we do every race. So we'll take it, as I said, around to our spotters and our cleanup crews and everybody that we get a chance to communicate on a regular basis in our network and look at as well as putting the boots on the ground, the men on the ground, which really can‑‑ that gives you a human out there looking at it, and we didn't see anything today.  
   
 Q. Would the speed try to give them a little bit of a different feeling the first one or two times through it, or is it designed‑‑  
RICHARD BUCK: You know, I don't know that I can answer that because I don't drive the race cars, but from experience, our guys that have that experience, the Brett Bodines and our cleanup guys, they know what to feel by having done it many, many times before. I don't know what the drivers feel.   
   
 Q. Can I ask about the restarts? This was the first race with restart zones painted on the track. Obviously you have your system with the replays and a person down there. Did it make any difference? Is it something that would be helpful for races later on in the Chase to have that? And can you talk about the one restart where Harvick was questioning Logano? Obviously you guys didn't see an issue with that.   
RICHARD BUCK: No, the restarts were really good today. I think our extra effort to make sure that it's very clearly defined, that the rule hasn't changed, but make sure that we answered all the questions for everybody, and really help to bring some clarity to it. I think that's why you're seeing the good restarts like you're seeing.  
   
 Q. Would you be okay with tracks putting lines on the track, or is that‑‑  
RICHARD BUCK: I wouldn't answer that. I'm the competition guy, so I'm just looking to make sure the leader starts the race.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT