NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 23, 2013
Kendric Maple
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   To my left, Kendric Maple, Oklahoma, your 2013 141‑pound champion.   Satisfaction?   
KENDRIC MAPLE:   Absolutely total satisfaction.   It's a great honor to be here, and I just love the sport.  
   
 Q.   Kendric, you touched on it a little bit last night.   You were with the previous coaching staff.   When Mark Cody came in, what did he have to do to reassure you you'd have this moment?   
KENDRIC MAPLE:   He's a wonderful coach, wonderful guy.   He's just all around a motivator.   He told me plenty of things that I've grown this whole year because of him, and I thank him a lot.  
   
 Q.   Kendric, was that match a little closer than you wanted?   Obviously, Port's a talented athlete, but you've had the ability to control a number of matches out here, and this one really was kind of tight.   Could you talk a little bit about how the match went and what the difference was for you to pull it out.   
KENDRIC MAPLE:   Definitely closer than I wanted it to be.   He's a go‑hard.   He comes at you the whole time.   And I felt like I couldn't really fire off my legs, kind of tweaked my ankle and couldn't really fire, so I was scared to shoot most of the match.   He kind of pushed me, and I was glad to come out with it.   
   
 Q.   How often do you win on a riding time?   You score points from your feet, and it's one of your strengths.   
KENDRIC MAPLE:   I can't think of any this year.   I mean, it's big.   He's a great kid.  
   
 Q.   Talk a little bit about the legacy of wrestling at OU and the kind of wrestlers that have wrestled and won titles for them in the past and what it's like to join that group, many of whom are in the Hall of Fame.   
KENDRIC MAPLE:   It's a definitely a tradition.   And kind of been down in the last couple years and Coach Cody is putting an end and we're going to win on the uprise.   It's an honor wrestling with guys like Hazewinkel and Frayer, Olympic trial people, and it's a good environment.  
   
 Q.   How much better did you get this season in comparison to your other times at this tournament?   
KENDRIC MAPLE:   I think, as far as talent and physical conditioning and everything, I think I got a lot better, but I think mostly it was mental.   Michael Lightner has been working with me every day and visualizing the performance out there on the stage.   I put myself there plenty of times before.   So it helped me out a lot.   
THE MODERATOR:   Kendric, congratulations.   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT