BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 20, 2010
Marc Lopez
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







NADAL-LOPEZ/Nestor-Zimonjic
  7-6, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions on the doubles final? 

 Q. You two ready to win the Grand Slam in doubles now? 
 RAFAEL NADAL: I always ready. I always was ready to win a Grand Slam. The thing is if we play. (laughter.)
 No, I am not ready to with Grand Slam doubles because I don't play.

 Q. Ljubicic said you'd be the best person to have as a partner in doubles. 
 RAFAEL NADAL: Me? 

 Q. Yeah. 
 RAFAEL NADAL: I don't know why. (laughter.)

 Q. Who's gonna keep your trophy, Marc or... 
 RAFAEL NADAL: We have both. We have two trophies. 

 Q. It was a little bit like the Olympic Games in the way of playing. 
 RAFAEL NADAL: What? 

 Q. It was a little bit like the Olympic Games, because you play for another one, for friend and... 
 RAFAEL NADAL: You want to answer? 
 MARC LOPEZ: No, thank you. 
 RAFAEL NADAL: No, for me it is a pleasure to play with Marc. He's very close friend of mine, and we do really well, no? After losing important singles, the victory in doubles makes me happy. Always is nice to win the tournament winning, no? 
 So it's important title for me, and for sure for Marc, a little bit more, I think. 
 So for us is -- yeah, you know, we never thought about winning the tournament here. So we are very happy for that. We enjoying a lot playing together. It's our second title. Probably this one gonna be difficult to repeat, because it's very important one, no? 

 Q. What's the difference for you between a good venue and a great venue? A good tournament and a great tournament, besides your playing? 
 RAFAEL NADAL: (Through translation.) 

 Q. Besides the playing, the feeling. 
 RAFAEL NADAL: (Through translation.) Well, I think the first thing, important thing is the history of the tournament. Second thing, the atmosphere of the tournament. That's if we are talking in general. 
 If the court, always a lot of crowd on court, that's makes the tournament more special. And for us, for the player, the facilities, no? You know, here is perfect for us. We have a car, we have the hotel close, we have relax. 
 You can do it everything, and that's personal, no? For every player is different, no? You know, probably for another player prefers to be in a big city. 
 So for me this tournament is -- I love this tournament, no? I can play golf. I love play golf. I can go for dinner every day in a different place. You know, you feel like you are a little bit out of the world, no? You feel like you are in holidays. That's why I love that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT