NCAA MEN'S 1ST AND 2ND ROUNDS: SAN DIEGO
March 18, 2018
Bob Huggins
Daxter Miles, Jr.
Jevon Carter
Lamont West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
West Virginia - 94, Marshall - 71   
THE MODERATOR: Our student-athletes from West Virginia are Lamont West, Daxter Miles, Junior, and Jevon Carter.  We will go right to questions for the student-athletes.   
 Q.  Jevon, talk about the game tonight and guarding their big player and everything about the first half, getting the turnovers, taking it out of them early.  What were you guys doing out there?  
JEVON CARTER: Just what we normally do, pressure the ball, make one guy handle it, deny the playmakers and make one guy try to beat us.   
 Q.  Jevon, offensively your performance tonight, can you let us know how that went for you?  Looked like you were in control.  
JEVON CARTER: My teammates do an unbelievable job of getting me open.  I come off a lot of screens.  I just play within the game.  I let the game come to me.  I just let my defense turn into offense.   
 Q.  Going into now the Sweet 16 how excited are you to continue on in the tournament and what's your confidence level after a big win tonight and a big win in the first round too?  
JEVON CARTER: We are just happy to keep playing.  This is March.  This is what we came to do.  We don't just want to go to the Sweet 16.  We want to win it all, go back, prepare for Villanova, watch a lot of film and get ready for the next game.   
 Q.  Lamont, does it mean anything extra to beat Marshall, the in-state rival?  
LAMONT WEST: I mean, we did it for the state.  We just wanted to go out there and play hard.  We knew that we didn't want to go home with an "L" and we did what we could do.  We went in and played hard and came out with a "W!"   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you, gentlemen.  Questions for Coach Huggins?   
 Q.  Coach, where is this team's confidence level at right now after two big wins to start this tournament and how excited are you to be moving on to the Sweet 16?  
BOB HUGGINS: I don't know if it's any different than it's been for the majority of the year, to be honest with you.  We got as high as No. 2 in the polls and then we had some injuries and some sickness and we didn't play very well, didn't shoot the ball very well.  We play in the hardest league in America, so it's not easy.  Everybody in that league can beat you.   
So these guys have kept their heads up.  We've lost probably five or six games and when you look back we should have could have won.  We didn't win because we didn't make plays we need to do make.  But other than in Germany we've been right there in every game.  We've led for a good portion of the game.  This group has never had a confidence problem.   
 Q.  I know it was many, many years ago now, but you guys have a game coming up against Villanova.  Playing them in the Big East many years ago, is there anything you can take away from that going into next week?  
BOB HUGGINS: I can't remember what I had for breakfast.  No, it is it's a different team.  Jay does a great job.  I've got great respect for Jay and what he does.  We had great battles in the Big East.  We spend so much time looking at film of who we're going to play that we really don't watch a lot of basketball from other leagues and things.  I've seen bits and pieces and you know, the highlights on ESPN.  But I don't know very much about them.   
 Q.  Talk about Jevon's performance tonight, 28 points, getting the steals, big plays on the defensive end.  
BOB HUGGINS: That's typical.  That's typical for him.  That's why he was the National Defensive Player of the Year a year ago and probably will be this year.  He shattered our steals both in the season and career.  He's had a phenomenal career.  I don't know if he'll break the assist record, but he will be close if he doesn't break it.  You have to understand how hard he works to appreciate Jevon Carter.  He's the hardest working guy I think I've every had.  It's nothing for him to go shoot an hour and a half before the game.   
 Q.  Talk about how aggressive you were on the boards tonight, obviously a big advantage?  
BOB HUGGINS: We thought that was our advantage coming in.  We didn't want to get in a game playing the way they want to play.  They're better playing the way they want to play than we are.  We're better when we get a lot more possessions than the option.  We were up 13, 14 or something like that, 12.  I don't know what it was at halftime and shot 39% because we had so many possessions off the offensive glass and turnovers.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Coach.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT