AUSTRALIAN OPEN
February 10, 2021
Bernard Tomic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. Can you give us your thoughts on the match?
 BERNARD TOMIC:   Well, he played unbelievable.  It was a joke.  So for him, full credit.  I tried to get some rhythm, but I just felt pretty bad the whole match.
 But for him, you got to give it to him.
 Q. What do you take away from the fact you qualified and you're back here again?
 BERNARD TOMIC:   Yeah, I mean, I didn't basically touch a racquet for eight months, still winning matches at slams.  For me it was good to quallie.  My opponent was a little bit hurt first round.  Even in the quallies, the matches were pretty tough.  It was not easy.
 For me, like, the last two months reaching this level, I can't ask for anything more.
 Q. It's uncertain going forward.  What is your schedule after this?
 BERNARD TOMIC:   Well, to be honest, I haven't checked.  I mean, still kind of tough around the world.  I mean, it's not easy.  We've had it pretty well here in Melbourne.  To organize this Australian Open was unbelievable I think.
 I mean, I don't know what I'll do now.  I'd like to play some more tournaments obviously.  I think some countries are tough to get into, certain procedures.
 Q. Have you entered tournaments?
 BERNARD TOMIC:   I have.  I've entered I think Singapore, which is a 250 quallie, might get in there.  A couple challengers and so.  Then again, it's tough also with what you need to do.
 I don't know.  I don't know.  It's tough also to travel.  I mean, I went to Doha, came back here, had to leave Australia again.  I mean, I'd love to, I just want everything to be okay.  That's the most important thing.
 Q. Last month you said you had a new lease on life after having time away from tennis.  Are you still keen to battle up through these lower-tier qualifying events to get back?
 BERNARD TOMIC:   Yeah, I mean, there's no difference playing guys at 250 in the world, 200, and the guys 60.  There's certain players in the top 5, 10, 15 in the world.  I've been there at the top, inside the 20, wasn't really that serious.  Maybe if I was, I would have been top 10.
 Doesn't change anything.  All these guys are good at 50, 100, s00.  Even if you're winning matches at, let's say, challengers, that's a plus.  I mean, these guys in the top hundred, pretty much the same level.
 Regardless of where I am, I know I'm pretty good, in a good state from taking off tennis for about eight months.  I couldn't ask for anything more.  Like I said, winning four matches at a Grand Slam is almost too good to be true for me at this stage.
 Q. You say you didn't feel great out there today.  Could you have done anything more to get your body right?
 BERNARD TOMIC:   Yeah, I mean, there's no excuse for me.  Dude just...  What is he, 10 or 11 in the world?  The guy just played too good.  It's just confidence.  When you're there, focused, at the top.  I remember myself playing being in the top 30, top 20, you come into matches, you're confident over opponents.  That's what he had on the start.  From the first ball, from the first game, from the first 15 minutes, he didn't miss a ball.
 Q. Is it hard knowing if you leave, you can't really come back?  You can, but it's a hassle, exemptions.
 BERNARD TOMIC:   It is, yeah.  It's not easy.  I mean, for them to run the Grand Slam here I think was in the period unbelievable.  Congrats to everyone for organizing it.  But, yeah, the whole leaving...  Quarantined I think twice in the last 10 months.
 I mean, if I leave Australia now, won't be coming back any time soon, for sure.
 Q. Fitzgerald said he didn't think you would be back at the Australian Open.  Is that a bit harsh?
 BERNARD TOMIC:   Yeah, of course.  Why didn't he think I'd be back?
 Q. Going forward next year.  He says he doesn't expect to see you at the Australian Open next year.  Is that a bit harsh?
 BERNARD TOMIC:   I mean, of course it is.  But, you know, he's probably the worst commentator I've ever seen in my life, as well (laughter).
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT