WIMBLEDON
June 24, 2011
Bernard Tomic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







B. TOMIC/I. Andreev
  4-6, 5-7, 6-3, 6-4, 6-1

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

 Q. Unknown territory? 
 BERNARD TOMIC: Yeah. Good win today. 

 Q. Surprised yourself by getting there after where you were?
 BERNARD TOMIC: Um, yeah, that was my first really test I think, challenge. You know, it's the first time I've been down in my career two sets to love and a break and potentially a double break down.
 I think I gave it a shot. You know, I tested myself to win that match, to get back in that third set, and I did. You know, and then that rain came and the nightfall. 
 So I was happy that I won the third set before dark, and I gave myself a chance in today's fourth set.

 Q. What advice did you get overnight that maybe helped you today?
 BERNARD TOMIC: Well, definitely not hit to his forehand. (Smiling.) He was just dominating me for the first two sets. I think I played too defensive. You know, against a player like that that moves you around the court really well, that was a stupid tactic of mine.
 But then fourth set, fifth set, I started to play a little bit more deeper and faster, and that's something I picked up on in the third set where he made a few errors. He doesn't really like to be pushed. He likes to be played slow, and I think tactics were right today for me. 

 Q. Looks like this win today will make you Australian's sort of highest-ranked singles. How do you feel about that situation?
 BERNARD TOMIC: Well, it's a good feeling. You know, now I haven't really focused on that too much. I know ranking will come if I win, especially if I win another game. I have another tough opponent.
 But, look, I'm just going to focus on this and see where my ranking is after the tournament.

 Q. What do you think about your next test then? You will play Soderling, and you never played him before. 
 BERNARD TOMIC: Um, no, I haven't hit with him, which is good, so I can get out there and hopefully, you know, he's not going to like the way I play. But he can hit you off the court, as he's done the last, you know, few years. He's beaten a lot guys very easily. 
 I can come out playing my game and can mean nothing to that. He can just hit winners and push me off the court. So, yeah, I've got to serve well tomorrow; and if I serve well, I think my baseline game will improve.

 Q. Did you see any of his match against Lleyton?
 BERNARD TOMIC: I did. I watched it. Lleyton was obviously up two sets to love, and, you know, unfortunately lost that in five. 
 But he's a higher-ranked player now. I think for me to beat him tomorrow, I've got to be more relaxed than I was in the second round today.

 Q. Have you talked to Tony or Lleyton about it?
 BERNARD TOMIC: Yeah, I spoke to Tony about an hour ago about it. I haven't really got the chance to talk to Lleyton yet about it. If I see him we'll have a chat, but Tony gave me a few good advices on how to play him. 

 Q. You've been to the third round of a Grand Slam. What have you learned from your previous third round experiences?
 BERNARD TOMIC: Well, the second time to be in a third round of a Grand Slam for me; first time here at Wimbledon third round. I'm really happy. 
 You know, maybe I should have lost in qualifying first round. Just tells you sometimes when you win a match anything can happen.
 But I'm happy. I'm happy the way I pushed forward, and especially won in this last match.

 Q. How do you like playing hitters like Soderling with such a powerful game?
 BERNARD TOMIC: Well, it's definitely going to tell me that I can't push the ball, I've got to hit the ball tomorrow. I prefer to play players that play slow, but I can deal with it anyhow. 
 If he increases the speed, the problem is going to be getting back his serve because he serves really good. I think I have enough of a game to control him from the line.
 But from the serve, you know, he serves really good. Depends how he serves. I think against Lleyton he served 70%, so we'll see how he serves tomorrow.

 Q. Who has been the most powerful hitter you've played you during your career, do you think?
 BERNARD TOMIC: Probably Nadal in a way, because he pushes you and moves you off the court. His balls are probably the heaviest to handle. 
 I've never played Soderling or hit with him before, so I don't know him. He's one of the hardest hitters, so we'll see tomorrow.

 Q. What family do you have here?
 BERNARD TOMIC: Um, I have my dad. Yeah, my dad and my best friend and Mario and my fitness trainer.

 Q. Are you in a hotel or are you staying at a house?
 BERNARD TOMIC: Oh, that was the question. Sorry. I got a house, yeah, in Southfield, about two minutes from here.

 Q. How do you feel physically now? He's got an extra day of rest. 
 BERNARD TOMIC: Yeah, um, although I played two sets today, so I thought I was going to feel worse. I actually feel all right. Yeah, I feel okay.

 Q. Pat was sitting next to your dad, and some of the other boys were watching on. How important is that structure to you now, sort of all that Davis Cup structure?
 BERNARD TOMIC: Yeah, it's really important. Um, you know, Pat's starting to get a bit involved now. My dad is still coaching me. That's good. I think this is going to be Pat's first time Davis Cup that I'm going to be involved. 
 I'm happy that he's in. He's a really nice guy. He's got a lot to offer to the team. I can't wait to kick off when the tie starts in China.

 Q. Your dad is obviously perfectly comfortable with you going to others for advice these days?
 BERNARD TOMIC: Yeah, I mean, look, it's good to get advice from Pat like that. He was a great player. He obviously did really well here and he's won slams. Any advice from a player like that is good, especially before you play these players now. 

 Q. What are you planning today tonight?
 BERNARD TOMIC: I don't know. Think about what I have to do in the next round. You know, relax, not do anything, go to sleep. Tomorrow hopefully I can have a good match. 

 Q. Is there anyone you're going to ask to warm you up, any big hitters? 
 BERNARD TOMIC: You know, Ferrer asked me to hit tomorrow, so I think that's the complete opposite of Soderling. (Smiling.) 

 Q. You saw Soderling's game with Lleyton and you were impressed by his big serve. Did you see any weaknesses that Lleyton did good that he had problems with?
 BERNARD TOMIC: Um, yeah, look, Lleyton put a lot balls on the court, and Soderling at times didn't play as hard. I think the lower the ball for Soderling, he can't really execute his power on the shots.
 I think I probably can serve a little bit better than Lleyton at this stage. You know, I'm serving really good in the last matches here. So if I can hold my serve, anything can happen. 

 Q. Will you be trying to really test Robin's patience? He's known for finishing points off pretty quickly. 
 BERNARD TOMIC: See, that's going to -- look, it's hard to say. Tomorrow I can come out and I can put a lot balls low; sure, he can miss everything or he can wipe me off the court in 30 minutes in a set. 
 That's when I really have to think what have to do and change. If it's going for me, then I'm not going to change anything. Obviously if it's not, which there could be a chance, I've got change things up and probably do stuff he doesn't like. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT