AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 21, 2010
Bernard Tomic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. I understand you've been meeting with Craig Tiley and other officials. Do you have anything further to say on last night, and particularly your remark about the late scheduling of the match?  
 BERNARD TOMIC: Well, look, after the match, you know, I would have done anything to win that match. To get out of it yesterday and say that, it's a bit harsh. Look, I did finish late. It's a bit hard playing at that time.   
 But, you know, there's nothing really I could do.   
  
  Q. But do you think that you over stepped the mark in terms of criticizing the scheduling?  
 BERNARD TOMIC: Well, look, I put in a request and that didn't happen. But I mean, you know, I got picked for a night match primetime and it got a little bit late. After, when I finished and lost, which I was a point or two away from winning, I got a little bit upset and said those things.  
 You know, right now I'm thinking totally different. If they pick me ever again to play, I will play anyway.  
  
  Q. Today's discussion has been about what you said rather than how you played, which seems a shame. Do you feel like you kind of learned a lesson as far as just being a little bit more careful in your post-match comments?  
 BERNARD TOMIC: No, not really. Haven't learned anything. What's there to learn? I just finished the match and I said a thing that I was probably -- what was I supposed to say? It was 2:00 in the morning.   
 No, hopefully next schedule will be during the day when I play.   
  
  Q. When you say, What's to learn, some of the comments have been that it's poor sportsmanship to look for an excuse for your loss. So you used the scheduling for an excuse. Do you agree that's poor sportsmanship?  
 BERNARD TOMIC: No, had I played during the day it would have been totally different. Like I said, after the match, I said what I said. I was a few points away from winning, and I got a little bit upset about that.  
  
  Q. What did Craig tell you in the meeting?   
 BERNARD TOMIC: Well, there was a few things mentioned. Nothing really that we can talk about now.   
  
  Q. Would it be an honor to play at night on Rod Laver if you got the chance again?  
 BERNARD TOMIC: Yeah. Look, last year and this year I got the chance, and I'm grateful. I'm not trying to make any excuses, but I go to sleep at like 9:00, 10:00 normally. It's way past my bedtime.   
 So I don't know...  
  
  Q. Lleyton said that deep down he thought you loved the experience playing out there in front of the crowd. Is that a fair statement?  
 BERNARD TOMIC: Yeah. Look, what I learned from that match is unbelievable. Couldn't have played any better. You know, if I had, you know, done something different during the breakpoints in the fifth set I could have maybe won the match.  
 Yeah, there was nothing more I could have done. Just pleased with myself.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT