AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 18, 2010
Bernard Tomic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 B. TOMIC/G. Rufin
  6-3, 6-4, 6-4 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Did you have difficulty with the rain delays and maintaining your concentration?  
 BERNARD TOMIC: Yeah, I did. It was kind of strange because that last set, you know, I saw this massive cloud going over me. I was like praying to finish it, but it was getting closer and closer.   
 I was happy I served for the match and got it at the end.   
  
  Q. Rubbing your eyes a lot during the last set. Was it the wind, too? Dust out there?  
 BERNARD TOMIC: Yeah, and the light and everything was just a little bit, I don't know, it was funny. But, you know, if it had gone to four it would have been a problem for me, so I was happy to finish it in the third.  
  
  Q. What pleased you most about the match tonight?  
 BERNARD TOMIC: Well, I didn't hit that many unforced errors. I got a lot of balls back. That's what gave me the first and second set. That's what I think I need to, you know, work on tomorrow a little bit more, hit aggressively a little bit if I want to have a chance in the next round.  
  
  Q. Were you very conservative tonight, did you think?  
 BERNARD TOMIC: Yeah. Yeah, I mean, I knew I had to get off the court as soon as possible.  
  
  Q. Had to mix that with the patience of making sure you kept it in play all the time. How did you work those two against each other?  
 BERNARD TOMIC: I didn't want to rush it, of course, do stupid things. I knew the rain was going to hit again, but we were lucky to finish it in the end.   
 You know, I was being consistent the whole match, and I think that's what got me here, he made a lot of errors.  
  
  Q. How much did those winds in Kooyong and Adelaide help you tonight?  
 BERNARD TOMIC: Yeah, a lot. A lot. I mean, it was windy in Adelaide and in Kooyong, and I knew what I had to do in the wind was just get a lot of balls back and wait for the other guy to miss.  
  
  Q. There's been some talk that this barney with you and Lleyton has been a distraction for you in the preparation. Is it a distraction?  
 BERNARD TOMIC: Not at all, no.  
  
  Q. Have you spoken to anybody from the Hewitt camp since you've been over here for the Open, and has the air been cleared at all?  
 BERNARD TOMIC: No, I haven't spoken to anyone.  
  
  Q. Would you like to?  
 BERNARD TOMIC: I don't really mind. I don't really mind.   
  
  Q. How does it feel being in the second round of your second Australian Open?  
 BERNARD TOMIC: Okay. Well, I did what I did last year. If I can pull off one more win, then it would be great.  
  
  Q. Last year you were quite tired during the second round.   
 BERNARD TOMIC: Well, hopefully it won't be 12:00 at night Rod Laver start this time.  
  
  Q. Is that still way past your bedtime?  
 BERNARD TOMIC: Yeah. I mean, I was getting tired then and it was like 8:00 (smiling).  
  
  Q. The fans at the start of the game, they were fantastic for you. Are you getting used to that sort of reception on the big arena here?  
 BERNARD TOMIC: I am. I mean, look, the crowd got me through last year, got me through today. If you had to leave because of the rain, I'm sure they got annoyed.   
 But in the next round, hopefully I can have as much supporters as I can.   
  
  Q. They were singing you were Australia's No. 1. Is that where you see yourself?  
 BERNARD TOMIC: It's hard to say that. I got to the second round. There's another match ahead of me.   
  
  Q. Looking at the next match, may be Marin Cilic. Are you confident playing him?  
 BERNARD TOMIC: You know, look, I know what I have to do if I play him. It's definitely hold my serve for a while. I'm going to try my best.   
 I think I can compete now. We'll see when it starts.   
  
  Q. What about if it's Santoro?   
 BERNARD TOMIC: Well, I don't know. I'm going to see and look at a few players that I play tomorrow on video, see as much as I can do to help me in the next round.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT