U.S. OPEN
September 13, 2009
Bernard Tomic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 B. TOMIC/C. Buchanan
  6-1, 6-3 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Never even gave him a sniff out there today.   
 BERNARD TOMIC: He started really well, and I thought it was going to be a tough match in the first few games. But I think I figured him out quickly, and that was what made me win in straight.  
  
  Q. What did you figure out?  
 BERNARD TOMIC: He kept -- as soon as I was slicing in the first few games, he kept hitting winners, and, you know, I knew my favorite shot is getting into that slice rally. You know, if that wasn't working, you know, I had to find other ways.   
 But I kept at it, and he started missing more. In the end, I was all on top of him.  
  
  Q. Was it your deliberate plan to hit soft balls at him? You were mixing it up.   
 BERNARD TOMIC: Well, that's my game, the way I'll play anyone. You know, I tend to hit hard and then soften it up for a bit. It works a lot against these guys because they don't like the low sort of bounce on these surfaces, which I don't, you know, mind really.  
  
  Q. You almost didn't play the event. Must be pretty pleased you changed your mind.   
 BERNARD TOMIC: Yeah, I was going to play the quallies. I said, No, I'll focus on the juniors to try and have a good shot at it. Here I am now and I won it, so it's great.  
  
  Q. How much confidence does it give you going forward?  
 BERNARD TOMIC: A lot, a lot. You know, to see, you know, big players' names that have won this tournament over the past years, it's great.   
 Now I've just got to -- I don't think I'll play any more juniors. I've got to keep my head down in seniors and do well there.  
  
  Q. What do you think it means for your reputation that you've won two junior Grand Slam titles?  
 BERNARD TOMIC: Better and better.   
  
  Q. Fear factor?  
 BERNARD TOMIC: Yeah, better and better, I guess. After that first one, you know, when I won in Aussie, I thought I was going to win the second one that year, but didn't happen.   
 All this year I played the French and Wimbledon, and guys played well against me in those two Grand Slams. But, you know, I said to myself, I come in this one, and I've got to really focus to win it.   
 If I do, you know, probably be the last I play.  
  
  Q. Did you think that game where he had three or four breakpoints early in the first set against you. Was winning that game important?  
 BERNARD TOMIC: It was. It was the turning point of the match, I think. You know, if he had got that game, it would be totally different. I hit the right shots at the right time and got that game.   
 The first game, you know, he wasn't really serving big, and I figured out, you know, what I had to do for the third service game when he serves that, or the fourth.   
 After that, you know, I cruised through the first set, and gave me big confidence.  
  
  Q. Playing the right shot at the right time, is that pretty much how you win?  
 BERNARD TOMIC: Yeah, yeah. He was going into the phase of rushing a lot and trying to hit winners. I think that was his plan, you know, to move me and just go for a big winner. I think I handled it pretty well.   
  
  Q. What is your plan from here? Where do you go from here?  
 BERNARD TOMIC: Don't know, really. I have to think of it.   
 Probably go back to Bradenton and then go back to Australia after a week.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT