WIMBLEDON
June 30, 2016
Bernard Tomic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 B. TOMIC/R. Albot
  7‑6, 6‑3, 6‑7, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
   
 Q. Good win today. Bit of backlash for the slip of the tongue yesterday. Was that any sort of distraction?  
BERNARD TOMIC: Yeah, look, I apologize if I offended anyone. I'm sorry. It just came out the wrong way.  
Looking at my match today was tough. I won. It was amazing battle and a good match to be a part of.  
   
 Q. How much did that take out of you?  
BERNARD TOMIC: A lot, a lot, a lot. Physically. I wasn't expecting the guy to play as good as he played.  
I think he really loved my ball. He was so used to my ball, and he was ready for everything. It was tough for me, because there are not many players on tour that like my tennis and my game. For him, it felt okay and he was dealing with it fine.  
I had to change up stuff, had to do stuff differently. He was playing quality tennis out there. Full credit to him for having amazing qually run and winning a match here.  
   
 Q. I guess at 4‑2 up in the third, you might have thought you could close out. Just a bit of a dip?  
BERNARD TOMIC: Yeah, I lost concentration and my energy fell. Sometimes I struggle with that, those sort of things.  
I managed to turn it around. I was down a break in the fourth, and I just kept fighting. I knew it was one break and I knew he doesn't serve that great. I managed to win that break.   
After that, I felt confident. One tie game at 3‑All in the fourth. After I sort of got out of that game, I think I saved a lot of break points. I became more confident in myself, and I realized what I needed to do to break from the 4‑3 game.  
   
 Q. Another tough customer coming up next. Step it up a bit further?   
BERNARD TOMIC: Yeah, well, I mean, he's very similar to the guy I played today. I mean, this guy played high quality match. There's no reason why this guy cannot play as good as Bautista Agut. The quality that was in the tennis today, they're very similar players.   
I have to expect from Bautista Agut a fight similar to today. He's gonna run for every ball. This is why he's almost a top‑10 player. I think he's at his best ranking now, the last six months, playing amazing. He's just a fighter. It's good to get this sort of match in leading into a match against Bautista Agut.  
   
 Q. Where do you think you'll have the edge?  
BERNARD TOMIC: I think being confident and, you know, nothing to lose now. And it's a good third round. It's very tough for both of us, but you're not playing a Djokovic, not playing a Federer. So I have to look at this match and go for it. Because if I do that, I should come out on top.   
But it's going to be very, very tough. I have to take one point at a time. It's going to be a very big grind out there for sure.  
   
 Q. Are you confident of recovering physically in time?  
BERNARD TOMIC: I'm happy I get Friday off. That's a bonus to me. I am a little bit tired now. Played amazing match against Fernando, and it's really taking it out of me now.   
One day off tomorrow is what I need. If I had to play tomorrow, then I'd be in a little bit of trouble.  
But then looking at his sort of match, he got the withdraw and he played a pretty easy first round against Jordan Thompson. He hasn't played that much tennis and I have played a lot of tennis. It will be interesting.  
   
 Q. Can that help that he hasn't had a lot of grass court tennis this week?  
BERNARD TOMIC: Yeah, absolutely. He hasn't played for three, four days. He has to play me in the third round. I know I can win this match. It's tough for him.   
I will have a lot of support. I will go for my shots, go for my game. And, you know, you're playing one of the biggest tournaments in the world. I have always played well in the past. I'm going to come out in this match trying to win from the start.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT