APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 15, 2016
Bernard Tomic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
T. GABASHVILI/B. Tomic   
6-3, 3-0 (ret.)   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  What was the injury?  What happened?  
BERNARD TOMIC: Yeah, I'm sure you all want to know.  I was just feeling a little bit sick last night.  Was very difficult to play two matches today.  Unfortunately I was -- did the right decision being sick to not play today.   
 Q.  When the draw comes out for Melbourne, when you have to go on the court and play, does that make it hard to have your mind in this?  
BERNARD TOMIC: Well, I sort of knew.  As I was warming up I looked at my phone.  I knew I was going to get the text, and I got the text of the draw and it was very good for me.   
So feeling sick, playing two matches today, it was going to be very difficult.  I felt -- just especially last night didn't sleep a lot.  It was like if I'm really going to play two matches today it's going to be tough.  I have to play maybe Monday there.   
For me, the best idea was not to play.  I love Sydney so much.  It's just a shame I couldn't be 100% today.  That's the way it is.  That's tennis.   
 Q.  What illness is it?  
BERNARD TOMIC: Just fatigue and food poisoning last night and little dizzy today.  So my energy wasn't quite there.  I was asking for a little of vitamin C in the morning, but no one really had it until I got here.   
It's all good.  As long as now I recover the next two days.  Two days can do me a favor.  If not, maybe it's the start of something else.  I have to be careful now, especially how much of a workload I do the next two days because you can get sick very easy when you travel.  So it's not easy.  And I'm not feeling 100%.   
 Q.  You were down a break in the first set; you talked to the umpire.  What were you saying?  
BERNARD TOMIC: I can't remember.  Actually can't remember.  If you refer me, I would be happy to answer.  If you could just like maybe tell me...   
I can't remember.  (Laughing.)   
 Q.  It was fairly lighthearted, but you were talking to him about Melbourne.  It was a priority for you.  
BERNARD TOMIC: Oh, yeah.  I think Gabashvili asked me who I play.  We're good friends also, so I told him I didn't know who he was playing.   
I told him he plays Federer, but I was joking.  He was like, Really?  Then he started playing even better.   
It was really difficult for me.  I was not feeling my best.   
 Q.  The exchange was with the umpire though.  
BERNARD TOMIC: Yeah, I honestly can't remember.  Mohamed is a very good friend mine too.  He's a super cool ref.  We always talk like that.   
I can't remember what I said.  Like he was there in Colombia when I won two times.  We always muck around.  I don't remember what I talked to him -- I don't remember what I said.   
 Q.  I think you said that you're ranking would only go up...  
BERNARD TOMIC: That's it.  I told him, Yeah, two matches today, sick, win the tournament, go up one spot.  Doesn't sound good for me, does it?  (Laughter.)   
 Q.  We've seen other people pull out from Sydney as well this week.  Do you think the timing is troubling for the tournament itself in that it's going to be tough for big name players to come here and play so close to Melbourne?  
BERNARD TOMIC: It is, absolutely.  I love Sydney so much.  I love this tournament so much.  I've always played so well in the past.  I was feeling so ready to play.  The weather yesterday was getting bad.  Obviously a few players pulled out early of this tournament.  Also last week in Brisbane we a lot of people pull out.   
I think it's obviously not easy to play the week before.  I personally love Sydney.  I love the tournament.  For me, I always feel great playing here.  Just unfortunate how it happened.  I had to play maybe two matches today not feeling my best.   
Two days away from the a Grand Slam, not the best preparation for me.  Just unfortunate I couldn't play anymore matches here.   
 Q.  So playing Istomin doesn't fill you with fear by the sounds of it.  
BERNARD TOMIC: Yeah, well, I mean, we played four times.  I think I'm 3-1 on him.  I managed to see the draw after.  You know, it's very good.  Obviously I'm seeded 16; avoid any other top players.   
I think second round is also a good chance to win.   
Third round my first seed I think is Fabio if he can get there.   
I think I'm defending a fourth round.  For me, it's a huge opportunity at the Australian Open.  I'm playing very, very well the past nine, ten days.  Just have to watch my health now, because the worst thing is if you feel bad now and cannot play in Melbourne -- I've had this issue down in Melbourne in the past in my career where I couldn't play.   
I think that's due to the fact I pushed it too hard here in Sydney where I made the final that week to Del Potro.   
So I've learned something, that's for sure.  Before a Grand Slam, five sets, you have to be feeling your best.   
 Q.  Will you put in a request with respect to your match?  
BERNARD TOMIC: Yeah, possibly Saturday start next week would be good.  (Laughter.)  No, I mean, I have only a Monday, Tuesday that I can play.  The later the better.  I think it goes on bottom half, top half, so their decision to do that.  So it's 50/50.   
I still have Saturday, Sunday, so if I can get that Monday off as well, will do my a huge favor.   
 Q.  Do you know what gave you the food poisoning?  
BERNARD TOMIC: I don't know.  Been eating the same thing at the hotel.  A lot of fish and rice this week.  Didn't sleep a lot last night.  Few hours.  Woke up they early because had to come here for a 10:30 start.  We were all here at like 8:00 a.m., 8:30.  With the traffic it was -- everything was complicated this morning.  Not feeling my greatest, then you know -- I actually only thought I was playing one match today.   
I looked at schedule again and I just went, Oh, my God.  I mean, it's the first time it's happened to me I think my in my career where they put two matches.  This is due to a Saturday final.  If I was 100% ready and not feeling the way I was, I would for sure fight on court and would've tried to win the match and this event.   
 Q.  Do you get to go to Melbourne early now?  Is that an advantage you can use?  
BERNARD TOMIC: Well, yeah.  Also have to watch also if I travel.  I know if you travel you can get sick easier.  You have to be careful.  Maybe I fly tomorrow morning or tonight.  Not too sure.   
Just going to recover as much as I can today.  That's the best then for me now.  Get ready to play.  I have an amazing opportunity in Melbourne seeded very high.   
I have to play the tennis I've been playing this week and last week.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT