SHANGHAI ROLEX MASTERS
October 14, 2015
Bernard Tomic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 B. TOMIC/D. Ferrer
  6‑4, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.  
   
 Q. Give us your verdict on the match today.   
BERNARD TOMIC: Very, very pleased. You know, I played very well. It was tough conditions. Playing a very difficult player. It's not easy when you step on court with him. I think previous to this year's meetings, I was down 3‑0 against David or 2‑0.   
This match is always tough. He's in very good form. He won Malaysia, played well in Beijing. I knew I had to step on court and play the tennis I was playing like I did in Indian Wells against him.   
Yeah, I thought I did a very good job of what I needed to do today.   
   
 Q. When you say 'tough conditions,' are you talking about the weather or the air quality or...   
BERNARD TOMIC: Yeah, all that, too. Obviously it was windy out there. Grandstand is quicker than the other courts. You almost have to adapt to that court playing on that one. It was a bit different court to all the rest. I'm sure a lot of players will agree.   
You get on that court, it's a bit windy. Everything is different. The pollution, of course, is not easy to play. You can feel it in the air. I'm coughing a lot here. I don't know why.   
But it's okay. You have to deal with it. It's a beautiful tournament, amazing tournament. I enjoy coming here. Played well in the past. But like I said, today was difficult conditions and a difficult player to play.   
   
 Q. There seems to be a sense about you, like you found your footing for life on the tour this year. You seem more comfortable with the whole process of being on the tour. Do you feel that, as well?  
BERNARD TOMIC: Yeah, yeah, I feel very confident. This year I started I think at 78 or 80 in the world, defending a final as well in Sydney. I got into the top 20 the past few weeks. Now is a big chance to finish the year very close to the top 15. I have to work hard. This match next is an opportunity.   
But, yeah, like you said, this is my best year. I'm working much harder. I'm a bit smarter and wiser. Allows me more of an opportunity to play better, feel better for matches. The results are showing, so I'm very pleased.   
   
 Q. You were obviously a notable junior. You come out here. Now that you've been through it, how hard is it to have all these expectations on you at such a young age?  
BERNARD TOMIC: It's not easy, for sure. People think it's easy. Absolutely, it's very tough. The age of 18, 19, obviously I didn't quite handle it well.   
I'm sure a lot of players at the age of 18, 19, they were adapting, getting there, getting the feel for the tour, the surroundings. It's not easy. It's a crazy road on tour.   
You have to be mentally very strong. I think you want to always play limited tournaments. I think this year one thing I didn't do well, I played a lot of tournaments. I did well in a lot of them, so it kept me going, kept me pushing to play more, which was in one way good from a results point of view, but for my body it was probably bad playing this many tournaments.   
I can look at next year and obviously cut down a lot more tournaments. Yeah, but like I said, the tour is very tough. It's only meant for the really strong in the head.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT