WIMBLEDON
June 23, 2014
Bernard Tomic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







B. TOMIC/E. Donskoy
  6‑4, 6‑3, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   You seemed to find your rhythm quickly today.   You would be really happy with that win. 
BERNARD TOMIC:   Yeah, absolutely.   Played very good.   He was a tough opponent because I didn't know a lot about him.   I had to be ready from the start.   I thought I returned well and felt pretty good out there which was good and something I needed leading on to my next match.

Q.   How do you do homework on a guy you don't know a lot about?   What sort of things do you need to do? 
BERNARD TOMIC:   Yeah, I mean, you've got to try and find out as much as you can.   I think it's difficult playing the guys that are sort of between 80, 100.   It's tough to know what they do.   They could play well.   You just don't know, so you got to come out expecting them to do anything.
Like I did today.   I came out focused.   I felt pretty well.   Served well.   To me, I think I was on top of the whole match from the start.

Q.   What do you need to do better to beat Tomas? 
BERNARD TOMIC:   For sure to play the way I was playing today, but just really focus on those big points, on really attacking him.
I'm obviously going to get chances, but I need to play the right tennis and not play too defensive.   He's a good player and he's going to take it to me if I play too defensive on those big points.
I really need to put pressure on him, I feel.

Q.   Lost to him last year here.   What lesson do you take from that defeat?
BERNARD TOMIC:   You know, a lot.   Obviously looking back I had set points in that first set in the match.   You know, I won the second set last year, so I felt like that first set is very important to get on top of him.
Because that sort of player, if he's sort of beating you from the start and he's up one or two sets, it's difficult to come back because he's a great player and he's a good frontrunner.
So I need to win the first set and put pressure on him.   Then everything can change.

Q.   Is that a really difficult step up in class, to go from someone like Evgeny today sort of ranked around 100 to one of the really top players in the game?
BERNARD TOMIC:   I mean, everyone can play tennis.   It's strange to say, but everyone can hit the ball.   Everyone can play differently.   It's just how matchup against the other players.   Some players have better strength and discipline on court and they apply more pressure.   Obviously the top players do that much better than the others. 
I think I played a good match today.   Who knows?   I have managed to play good here in the past where I played against top players and beaten them.
So I have to relax and go for my shots.   I think then it can open up for me.

Q.   You had a difficult year in terms of injuries, but looked like up you were doing it really easy out there today.   How is the body after all the rigamarole?
BERNARD TOMIC:   Yeah, it was difficult.   You know, obviously having two surgeries in a week's time, you know, in late January, was big.   I managed.   There was a lot of stuff involved from February until April. 
Last sort of five, six weeks been playing tournaments, getting back, getting a feel on the court.
It's not easy, but I think I've done pretty well.   Some people can play a long time before they can pick up the confidence of matches.
Now I'm at my favorite tournament.   I managed to win the first round, and now I'm playing against a tough player.   But everything is possible in those courts for me.

Q.   Does the time away from tennis when you were rehabilitating, does that give you a different perspective on the game than when you're just going week to week?
BERNARD TOMIC:   Yeah, for sure.   It's different.   You know, you really have a lot of time off to think and really work out a plan and strategy for when you come back.
It's not easy having surgeries.   It was tough.   First experience of my life to have this sort of situation, so, you know, I wasn't quite ready for it.   But I think I handled it quite well.
It's going to take time obviously to come back.   Like I said, I'm doing pretty well the last six weeks.   I just need the confidence the playing well.   Lucky here I have sort of confidence in the past and I can sort of, you know, play good tennis here.

Q.   Does it make you appreciate the opportunities you still have and give you a sense of urgency about what you need to achieve still?
BERNARD TOMIC:   Absolutely.   You think about that while you're not playing and doing nothing.   You think about all those things.   You do miss tennis after a while when you're not playing.   There was that time in February, March where I felt like I was missing the game and dying to come back into it.
But it's not an easy process.   That's why you need to have a good career, injury‑free.   You know never know what can happen.   Got to always stay positive and keep your body as healthy as you can.

Q.   So you're enjoying being a tennis player this year as much as you have in the past, or has it made it difficult with the stuff you've dealt with this year?
BERNARD TOMIC:   Well, I think with for sure the surgeries and the situations I've had it's been difficult.   It's the first experience I've had in that aspect, so I'm doing pretty well, as best as I can.   No one is going to do it perfect. 
It's just a learning cuff I think.

Q.   When you come to a tournament like this where you have points to defend, do you feel nervous or excited?
BERNARD TOMIC:   You know, it's tough to say.   I felt similar to that in Sydney but managed to do quite well.   You just don't know.   Here is where I've played best tennis in the past.   The pressure sort of comes out.
Once I manage to win the first round, everything can change.   I've just got to go through the next round and give it my best and play my tennis.   I know if I can do that, it's going to be difficult for my opponent or for Berdych.

Q.   Given what you had this year with the surgeries, do you get a sense that stamina and fitness will come into this if this goes anywhere near the distance against someone strong like Tomas? 
BERNARD TOMIC:   For sure.   He's a similar height to me.   Both 6'4", 6'5".   For me, at this stage, he is a bit stronger than me and does prepare much better for balls.   I need to develop that in my game. 
But there is no doubt about it.   I can play and matchup with him.   Obviously played him in the past and have had chances.
I've got to go out there playing my game.   If I can do that, who knows?   If I don't play my tennis and play defensive, he's going to take the better me because he is a good player.
But I have to go out playing my game. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT