AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 18, 2014
Bernard Tomic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. GASQUET/B. Tomic
  6‑4, 3‑6, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Some missed opportunities for you, given that you were serving on top of him and everything else?  
BERNARD TOMIC:   Yeah.   I felt like I had chances the first game in the third set and the second game when he broke me.   I felt like I could have held much easier.   I missed a simple smash.   
Then I had three break points.   I'm struggling to convert the break points lately.   Even in my first round I think I got only 2 of 10.   And today I had a lot of break points, but I didn't seem to ‑‑I couldn't finish it on those occasions.  
But it was very good tennis.   He's playing good.   It's difficult to play against him.   It's good confidence.   I think we played a good match, and this is what you need leading into next week's Wimbledon.  
   
 Q.   I'm sure you probably would have wanted more matches but it was a pretty good hit‑out?  
BERNARD TOMIC:   Well, it is.   This was a tough match.   I felt like if I could get on top of this match and win and get myself in that quarterfinal I was looking good and saw the draw, a few comfortable players there that I would have been a favorite there in the quarters.   
But it's unlucky.   He's obviously very good on grass.   He's made the semis at Wimbledon.  
You know, I just played a little bit defensive on the wrong points.   That's how I felt I lost the match.   Overall I think it came down to a few points in that third set to start.  
   
 Q.   What do you do between now and Wimbledon?   What things do you work on?  
BERNARD TOMIC:   I'm going to work on a few things, hopefully my return, just the ability to step up on those big points at the break points.   That's something you need to work on, you need to take those big points and really play aggressive on them and go for them.   
You don't want to play too defensive against top players on those break points, because the good players are going to come back and they're not going to give you chances.   You've really got to play to win rather than not to lose on those big points.  
   
 Q.   Have you got enough over the last two weeks to feel like you can be a threat next week?  
BERNARD TOMIC:   Absolutely.   I think, you know, two tournaments, four good matches.   It's been good.   It's similar to last year.   I think I played‑‑ I lost first round at Queen's and made the quarters here.   And then I felt good playing Wimbledon, felt confident, felt strong.  
It's a good two weeks.   I'm happy.   I'm happy with the way it's been going leading up into this.   Who knows?   Wimbledon is my favorite tournament, so if I can get a good draw, first, second round will be very important for me.  
   
 Q.   What is it you like most about Wimbledon apart from the surface?  
BERNARD TOMIC:   Just, you know, it is one of the most prestigious tournaments, biggest tournament we have in sport, I think.   It just brings out the best of me, and I seem to play well out of the four times I've played there.   I think I managed to qualify when I was 17 and I think I lost to Mardy Fish.   
I have just felt comfortable the last three, four years, apart from that match where I lost to Goffin I think in 2012.   I just like the atmosphere, the feeling, and it brings out the best of my tennis, I think.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT