AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 16, 2014
Bernard Tomic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 B. TOMIC/A. Golubev
  6‑4, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   What pleased you most about that?  
BERNARD TOMIC:   I think I served very good.   Probably didn't start the way I wanted, but I was serving very good and something I worked on the last three or four days, so it's good to see it's coming good in the match.   I'm very happy with that.   
   
 Q.   You looked a bit agitated in the first set there.   What was that about?   
BERNARD TOMIC:   It was difficult.   I was playing, and the calls from Court 1 were coming in.   I thought half the time it was a let.   
I think he even stopped, my opponent, a couple of times.   It was very difficult.   I didn't know what was going on until I addressed the umpire, and he managed to turn down Court 1's speaker system, because it was tough to play when you were hearing calls in the back.   
You think it's on your court but it's a let, so it was a bit frustrating there.   After that, they managed to turn it down, which was good.   
   
 Q.   What do you have to do well against Richard?  
BERNARD TOMIC:   I have to serve well like I did today.   I played him five times, so I won once which was on grass which is good confidence for me.   
I served very good that match when I won in Wimbledon last year in the third round, so I think I need to serve well.   I played him in Paris recently.   I didn't serve well.   I didn't feel good on the court.   I need to come out on court confident serving well, and I think that will make me play better.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel better getting a roll on with Wimbledon now?   Getting in good court time and a good rhythm?   
BERNARD TOMIC:   Yeah, I think Queen's was good.   Managed to play a good first match and a good second match, something I needed.  
Unfortunately I lost to Radek.   He was playing very good.   And here is a chance here.   I have played Richard before on grass.   I have beaten him.   It's good confidence to have leading into playing an opponent like this, but like I said, I have to serve well and feel good from the start.  
   
 Q.   When you saw Radek beat Andy Murray, I suppose that was a confidence boost for you?  
BERNARD TOMIC:   Absolutely.   He's a very experienced player, very smart.   It's not easy to play against him.   He plays similar to me, but, you know, he comes to the net much more than I do, and it's tough to get in a rhythm with him.   
I think he was playing well the whole tournament.   He felt really good.   He's going to be a good contender in Wimbledon like he always is because he enjoys playing on grass.   
I was happy with that match to get good confidence, good rallies.   Hopefully I can win.   Winning against Richard is going to be difficult, but I need to play well and serve well.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT