AEGON CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 9, 2014
Bernard Tomic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 B. TOMIC/T. Smyczek
      6‑4, 3‑6, 7‑5 
  
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   A good way to get out of that one?  
    BERNARD TOMIC:   Yeah, I was happy.   I should have lost that.   I'm not going to say a lot.   I was happy to win because, you know, I thought I was going to lose that match.  
   
 Q.   After the run you have had with the injury and the results, was that just kind of a relief today that you got the win?  
    BERNARD TOMIC:   Yeah, it was good to win, but like I said, very rarely you're going to get out of a match like that when a guy is serving at 5‑4 in the third set.  
    I guess I played the right two, three points, which is funny.   Tennis, you can play like crap for the whole two sets, and then you can find three, four points and you can win the match.   It's just strange.   
    Today I managed to find that, but it was a very weird match today so I can't say a lot.  
   
 Q.   Why do you feel you didn't play your best today?  
    BERNARD TOMIC:   It was difficult, first match on grass.   It is my favorite surface.   But who knows?   It's tough.   The court is a little bit quick and you have to get used to it.  
    I thought I was playing okay in the first few games, but then I played really bad for about a set and a half.   Couldn't find my timing.  
    You know, I got out of trouble, I guess, because it wasn't looking good for me in the end, but somehow I managed to find two breaks in his last two service games, which was good to do.  
   
 Q.   The line call in the third set, did that unsettle you a little bit?  
    BERNARD TOMIC:   My forehand?   Yeah, I remember that one.  
    Yeah, it could have been out.   Who knows?   They don't have challenge on the court, so you can't give it a second shot I guess for review.  
    But I think that game I held, so it wasn't that game.   It was the 4‑All game where I lost that in the third set that bothered me a bit.  
    But I managed to play a good three points in the 5‑4 service game on him.  
   
 Q.   A match that tough for you, did you kind of get down on yourself at all?  
    BERNARD TOMIC:   Yeah, I felt a little bad.   You're just not playing good, and it's tough to find timing.   You're battling with yourself, the courts are a bit quick.   Everything, these conditions, it's not easy making that switch.  
    Remember, I lost last year in the first round, 7‑6 in the third.   It's tough to make that transition to clay and play that first match.   It's very unusual.   Stuff can happen like this.   
    So you have to find that timing.   I'm happy I won, because in the end of the day, like I said, realistically I should have lost that match.  
   
 Q.   How many days have you actually been on the grass?   In Paris you were saying you were thrilled to be off the clay.   How many days have you actually spent on the grass?  
    BERNARD TOMIC:   I have probably been here a week; five, six days.   It's okay.   I think it's a little bit ahead of other people.  
    But you need matches now.   That's the most important thing.   Regardless of what happened today, I think it was just good to get on the court.   We played a good solid 90 minutes.   
    It was a good match, a few good rallies.   Got a feel of the court, a match situation and on grass, you know, I felt that a little bit, which was good.  
    Now I move on to my next opponent, but, you know, it was a very difficult match and there's not a lot I can say because realistically he should have won the match.  
   
 Q.   Does it give you confidence to come through a match like this where you didn't necessarily play your best but you still won?  
    BERNARD TOMIC:   Of course.   I know myself.   I didn't play very good today, but, you know, I'm happy I won.   You can't always play good, that's for sure.   
    But, you know, of course you feel very good when you win matches like this because you don't play your best.   So if you can win a match like this, it's very good confidence.   
    Who knows?   I mean, I played a lot of tournaments where, you know, in the first round I struggled, you know, and I should have lost and somehow you do really well in the tournament.   
    But it's just tennis.   You have to deal with it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT