APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 10, 2014
Bernard Tomic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 B. TOMIC/S. Stakhovsky
  6‑7, 7‑5, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Four matches here.   Another one tomorrow.   Is that the perfect preparation for the Australian Open?   
BERNARD TOMIC:   Yeah, it's very good.   The way played here, I'm very happy.   Tomorrow is going to be a difficult match.   I've got to prepare as best as I can.   
Last time I played he beat me pretty comfortably, 6‑3, 6‑3.   I felt like I had chances in that match.   I have to go for my shots and play the way I played in my first round and the quarters to win.  
   
 Q.   It's obviously impossible not to talk about the Australian Open.   Has Rafa copped a horror draw himself?  
BERNARD TOMIC:   I haven't thought about it, to be honest.   It's definitely a difficult match.   My main priority is tomorrow night, and on Sunday I'll think about the Australian Open.  
   
 Q.   You said yesterday you didn't mind a top see.   Did you think you would be sitting here 24 hours later...  
BERNARD TOMIC:   Like I said, we'll talk about it Sunday.  
   
 Q.   Look ahead to tomorrow, Juan Martin, one game against him.   How do you play tomorrow night?  
BERNARD TOMIC:   I have to play my game to win.   This guy is one of the best players when he's playing well.   You can't do anything.   
I've got to stick with him, and maybe I'll get my chance.  
   
 Q.   How did you go?   The second set you called for the trainer.   The body okay?   Probably a bit sore.   
BERNARD TOMIC:   Yes, I was feeling a little bit tired.   Sergiy was playing very good, and that's why he's beaten a lot of players.   He's won three, four titles I think, and obviously had that win against Roger in Wimbledon.   
He can play amazing.   It's difficult.   Today he was playing good.   I wasn't moving as good as I should have and maybe cost me that first set being up.   
But I was fighting.   I tried as much as I can, and lucky I won in the end.  
   
 Q.   Did you get to see any of the Del Potro game?   I suppose you were preparing for yours, but what's the most dangerous thing about his game?  
BERNARD TOMIC:   Best forehand I think on tour now.   Very, very good first serve.   You know, not much you can do when he's playing good.   Obviously witnessed him playing Rafa in the semis of Shanghai.   Won that I think 6‑2, 6‑2, and he couldn't do anything, Rafa himself.  
He can play amazing.   I have to stick with him to have a chance.   He could get tight and I play a little bit differently, so hopefully I can get buzzed up and play my tennis.   
   
 Q.   A little more on that, Bernie.   Entirely different matchup with Juan Martin than the last two matches.   Dolgopolov mixes it up and Stakhovsky does, but Juan Martin is a little more straightforward.   
BERNARD TOMIC:   Yeah, I know what Juan is gonna be doing.   Obviously he's very, very good at what he does.   This is why he's there.   I have to do something different.   I have to play my game.   
It's a final.   I'll go out there, have fun, relax, and I'm going for the win.  
   
 Q.   How big is it going to be for you to serve well?   He's going to come with the big serves.   
BERNARD TOMIC:   Yeah, I'm serving very good for the tournament.   I'm happy the way I'm serving.   
Tomorrow before I practice I'll try and work on my serve to get that feeling and the toss right.   It's very important to serve well against him and feel like you're having comfortable games on your service game.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel kind of chuffed?   You've got to two finals in a row here.   Do you feel pretty pleased with your week?   
BERNARD TOMIC:   Yeah, pressure is not a lot for me.   I can handle that.   I think to be a good player you need to handle pressure.   Obviously I was defending here.   I managed to get back to the final.  
Now I'm aiming for my second title, which is a huge feeling for me.   
   
 Q.   Compare your fitness last year to this year.   Last year you played Hopman, came through here, and won it.   This year you played three matches in Hopman; have come through here.   Do you feel like you're in better shape now?  
BERNARD TOMIC:   Similar.   Couldn't say better or worse.   Similar.  
I'm more experienced, I would say.   A year has gone by.   I'm experienced more in tennis, and I feel like I'm playing better than I did last year.  
Fitness‑wise it's tough to say if I'm better or worse than last year.   I think it's about the same.   I was very fit last year.   
   
 Q.   Over the last couple months, is there a shot that you feel like or a part of your game that you feel like has improved more than others?   If so, what is it?  
BERNARD TOMIC:   Probably preparing myself for balls.   Before I wasn't preparing myself for a lot of these easy balls.  
Now when that ball comes and that chance to finish to it, I'm preparing much better than I was before.   That's what you need to do.   The best players in the world prepare a lot better than the other players.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT