AEGON CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 11, 2013
Bernard Tomic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 B. BECKER/B. Tomic
  6‑4, 6‑7, 7‑6 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   How did you pull up after that?  
BERNARD TOMIC:   It was a good match, good first match on grass.   
   
 Q.   What were you thinking in that third set when you were down and had to fight back so hard?   That must have taken a lot of heart for that comeback.   
BERNARD TOMIC:   Yeah.   I was doing a good job to come back in that third set.   He should have won the third set.   He should have beat me 6‑2, I think, 6‑3.   
I was lucky to get back.   That's all I can say.  
   
 Q.   What would you put it down to?   He was obviously serving pretty well.   
BERNARD TOMIC:   Yeah, he was serving well.   I knew it was going to be tough.   He had more matches than me on grass.   He had been playing really well, made the final of the challenger last week.   He was a dangerous player to play.  
Tough tiebreak in the end.   I'm happy the way I played.   I think it was a good match for my first match on grass and especially back from my injury, so it was good.  
   
 Q.   When were you able to start in again after Paris?  
BERNARD TOMIC:   Last week Thursday, last week Thursday, properly.   I was really hitting with one leg for about 20 minutes before that.   
Still Saturday, Sunday, I wasn't 100% sure, and then Sunday I felt like I could run at 100%, and, you know, didn't really feel it, which was good.   It was good news.   But probably didn't prepare as good as I should have due to the injury.  
But close match, came down to one point.   
   
 Q.   Your dad was obviously back in your corner today.   Did that help you at all?  
BERNARD TOMIC:   I didn't see him, to be honest.   I didn't look at anything.   I wasn't looking anywhere.   
Funny you spotted him and I didn't.   Well, that's interesting.   
   
 Q.   Have you made any changes to your setup, your coaching staff?  
BERNARD TOMIC:   Yeah.   Got my best friend working with me now.   He's a good mate of mine in Monaco.   It's gone good.   We will try and see how it goes.  
Yeah, good first match on grass.   I'm happy the way I played.   You know, lucky I'm not feeling the leg and I'm getting closer to Wimbledon.   
   
 Q.   You said you didn't know your dad was there.   Did you expect him to be here today?  
BERNARD TOMIC:   Yeah.   I expected him to be here.   I knew he was at my hotel.   I saw my dad in the morning.   I had breakfast with him.   
But, you know, it was 50/50 whether he was going to come.   I didn't really know he was there today.   I wasn't really looking.   Wasn't really something I was focusing on.  
   
 Q.   When you said you made changes in your setup in terms of what's happening in Monaco, is that with your management or coaching or...   
BERNARD TOMIC:   No, that's just with myself.   Yeah, just working with my friend now.   Good to have a good relationship with him and my trainer.   It's very good.   And also my hitting partner that's working with me is very good.   So I've got a good team.   
   
 Q.   Can we just clarify with the hitting partner, Thomas Drouet, is that who you're referring to?  
BERNARD TOMIC:   Thomas who?   
   
 Q.   Drouet.   
BERNARD TOMIC:   Yeah, that's a good question.   No, it's not him.   It's another bloke, good friend of mine also from here.   
   
 Q.   Apart from doubles here with Lleyton, what's next week?   Eastbourne or what are you doing?  
BERNARD TOMIC:   Yeah.   Yeah, I'm going to play there.   Hopefully I can do better there, get a good match, maybe win a match, get some confidence.   Should be good.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT