ROGERS CUP MEN
August 6, 2012
Bernard Tomic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 B. TOMIC/M. Berrer
  3‑6, 6‑3, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Is it nice to finally get another victory un der your belt again?   It's been a while.   
BERNARD TOMIC:   Yeah, it's a really good feeling.   Been having a bad, you know, last few months.   Yeah, seven weeks in a row I've been losing, and I think the opportunity here to play and play well is good, and confidence that I need.  
So I am just happy that I won my match finally, and I've got confidence leading into the next important match.  
   
 Q.   At what point do you start to get self‑conscious about being on a losing streak?  
BERNARD TOMIC:   About five losses in a row you start to think, All right, I need to do something to change, to win.   I think I played well today.   I've been working the last five six days since I lost the Olympics, and I think it's good, it's paying off.   
You know, next match is really huge for me, so I've got to go out there playing like I did today.  
   
 Q.   We had Donald Young earlier today who had his 16th loss in a row.   Were you aware of that?   When you see that, how did you react to it?  
BERNARD TOMIC:   Yeah, we're all aware of that one.   (Smiling.)   You know, it's hard for him.   When you start losing and getting down five, six matches, it becomes difficult to turn it around.   You need some luck.   You need a match to win to get back into the position you were six months ago like myself of winning and winning comfortably a lot of tournament matches.   
I think for him it's opportunity the that he had today.   He was unlucky and lost in the third set, but I am sure he will play well.   He loves the hardcourt season.   
For anyone it's difficult when they're losing a lot, but you got to find a way to get out of it.  
   
 Q.   What did you take from your previous match with Novak into this one that makes you a better player?  
BERNARD TOMIC:   Yeah, you know, looking back at the last match in Rome, I think he played very, very well.   I played pretty good, but clay isn't my favorite surface.   I thought 6‑3, 6‑3 was very tight.   There was a lot deuce rallies in that match.  
I think it's a good chance for me playing him for the first time on hardcourt where I think I move the best out of all surfaces.   I think my game suits more grass, but I think I move and play better in a way on hard court.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk to us a little bit about the Olympics experience, what it was like to be at Wimbledon with all the pink all over the place and just kind of how you felt after being there two weeks, you know, kind of after the fact?   
BERNARD TOMIC:   Yeah, I think that was a real turning point of my career, and something I'm always going to look back to.   To do it at such a young age, to be an Olympian and to play there was amazing.   I saw a lot of good things and stayed at the Olympic Village and saw a few famous people.   You don't much get chances like that, and I'm happy I got the chance.  
Always when the Olympics comes along it's special for me and most players.   
   
 Q.   You said after Wimbledon that you needed to change things up a bit and maybe work harder.   Talk about some of the changes you made, if any.   
BERNARD TOMIC:   I think after Wimbledon I did train well, and I managed to go back on clay where I had a few tough first‑round losses to the players that I think won tournaments.  
It was a bit unlucky but I trained well and played well in the Olympics I though against a good player, Nishikori.   You know, I thought I've been playing ever well since.   I just needed a chance to play a match and get it under my belt, and this was it today.   This is important for me.   I think I got it.  
   
 Q.   Do you and the players feel that maybe there is an opportunity with some of the top players tired after the Olympics?  
BERNARD TOMIC:   Yeah, it's definitely a big opportunity with Federer and Nadal not being here.   But, you know, it's not an opportunity for me when I'm playing Novak.   So it's a bit different.   For the other players it might be.  
But, yeah, looking back last year when I think Dodig beat Nadal here in the second round, there is a chance.   All the players love when you beat a big name.   It opens up the draw for other players, and you get confident when you beat a huge player.  
But you can only talk about beating a player like that; you have to beat him.   
   
 Q.   How do you see self in Toronto and draw which one is already done and you are already very successful in first round?  
BERNARD TOMIC:   Can you repeat that question again?   
   
 Q.   How did you see self with this one draw in Toronto and you pass first round?  
BERNARD TOMIC:   Yeah, I mean, the draw is, after the first round I won, is very difficult.   I think I need a match like this to win.   I feel really comfortable now playing back on hard court.   I played I thought well today, and so did Michael.  
It's a very difficult draw obviously, but this is tennis.   The more rounds you win the tougher the draws you're going to get.   It's a huge match, very difficult match, one of the most difficult matches for me the last few tournaments.  
But I've got to play well to win and even have a chance of winning.   
   
 Q.   I have a question regarding winning a Grand Slam and being a Grand Slam champion.   In a historical aspect, the eighth Australian Grand Slam champion winning the first and reaching the first Grand Slam final at the age of 19 and 25; the oldest was Patrick Rafter.   You are now 19.   I know this is a process.   How do you put your development process?   What is your expectation to win a title, to win a Grand Slam title?   
BERNARD TOMIC:   Yeah, it's a good question, but I think I'll look at it in a way where now in tennis in the last six years with four of the best tennis players that probably ever lived.   You know, you have Novak, Nadal, and Roger, and I think back ten years ago, I mean, everyone could win a Grand Slam in the top 20.  
It wasn't just the three, four players that are winning now.   So it's so hard.   Later on in the draw there is not that much chance to get deep into tournaments when you beat a big player and have to back it up and beat another one and be in the final and beat another huge player.  
It's very difficult.   I think there are chances to get deep into tournaments, especially that I played in Wimbledon last year.   But to win majors at 18, 19, 20, it's very, very difficult.   
I loved growing up thinking that I could win a Grand Slam at 19, but little did I know that these guys came along and spoiled my fun.   (Laughing.)   
I mean, look there is always going to be challenges for everyone.   I hopefully can win a Grand Slams in the future.   If I'm working hard and believe, I think I will.   I can only keep improving.   I think if I improve like the guys now in the top three, then I have a chance in the future.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT