AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 22, 2012
Bernard Tomic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. FEDERER/B. Tomic
  6‑4, 6‑2, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   What do you think you gained most out of that match tonight?
BERNARD TOMIC:   Just another experience of playing Roger, and, you know, tough expectations to win.
You know, I had a few chances in the first set, and, you know, it's good to play a player like that and a player who is as good as he is and for me one of the best who has played.   You learn a lot when you play him, and, you know, you just improve and see what he does and improve in your game.

Q.   What was your game plan tonight to try and overcome him?
BERNARD TOMIC:   To play a little bit aggressive, more aggressive.   But, you know, I think the last few matches that I played I was a little bit more patient, and started to turn around and started playing aggressive all of a sudden.
I think I played pretty good in the first, you know, three, four games.   Had a little bit of a bad game at 4‑All, and I think that's what cost me.

Q.   How do you sort of say what you learnt most out of it then?
BERNARD TOMIC:   It's very good experience to play a player like that.   You know, I don't think there will ever be as good of a player as him.   I think you can only learn what he does and take in what you learned.   Last time I learned a lot of things when I played him, and this time I learned even more.
For me, it's a great pleasure and honor to play him.   I think you learn a lot over the period when you play these top guys, top three or four guys.   You can just only get better if you lose against him.

Q.   Can you put it into specific areas sort of where it tells you where you need to get better as you get older to play these best players?
BERNARD TOMIC:   Yeah, it's not something like that.   I think the top four guys are at a different level.   From five, six on they're all beatable, but the top four guys have something special.   That's why they've all won slams, and that's why Murray plays so consistent. 
I think the rest, they are all beatable for me at my level.   But the top four guys have something special, and Roger, for me, is very hard to beat.
I think I learnt a lot.   It's good.

Q.   What was different about tonight that you learned compared to Sydney?
BERNARD TOMIC:   Ah, grass I have more chance against him, you know, my slices I can use a little bit more and the ball stays lower.   Hard courts he's always in balance.   The harder I hit it, you know, the ball comes back in a different corner and ends up always being a winner. 
It's very strange.   Never did experience my balls that I hit that hard to come back and to be a winner.   It's good to watch, you know.   (Laughter.)   Even for me, you know, playing, I enjoy watching it.

Q.   Seems like after a couple of his dropshots you shook your head and said, Wow. 
BERNARD TOMIC:   I don't know how he does it in that situation.   I mean, the ball happens so fast, and to think to do a dropshot in that moment, too good, because I ain't running.   (Laughing.)

Q.   Do you feel like just playing Roger made you more tense in the game, or do you feel like you're playing your best?   How did it feel out there against someone like Roger?
BERNARD TOMIC:   It's tough to play your best against someone like that.   He's not going to let you play good.   Obviously he does something that‑‑ you know, with a lot of players I can use my game.   It's tough.   I can't use my shots I way I need them against him.   I can get over with a few, but it's tough to use it against him because he knows‑‑ he's a little bit smarter and he understands where I'm going to go with. 
He's such a good mover.   He gets there and can move me, start moving me early.   That's when I get a bit tentative and go for my shots.

Q.   Did he say anything to you at all after the game?
BERNARD TOMIC:   Yeah, he said, you know, Great tournament, again, and work hard.

Q.   How far away are you from the top 4 group?   You mentioned there is that gap.   Obviously to improve yourself you're going to have to beat them.   How far away do you think you are?
BERNARD TOMIC:   Well, that's a good question.   I think, you know, it could be very soon.   The next, you know, year, year and a half, if I improve my body and get stronger, I think I've done a great job of getting this physical.
I think I can get a lot more out of my body and, you know, I think it's about a year and a half I'm away from that group.   But I think until then I can play great tennis this year and have a good year, and I think, you know, take my ranking to a good spot this year.

Q.   Is it conceivable for you that one day you can be in that special group that you talk about?
BERNARD TOMIC:   Absolutely.   I think, you know, I having played all the top four guys now and Roger twice, I think there is a lot for me in the future. 
Yeah, you know, I'm always going to get better and better.   You know, looking back a year I was not as good as now.   And, you know, now looking back to next year, I'll probably be even better.
That's a scary part for me because I know I can improve a lot.

Q.   How do you put this tournament in perspective for how it sets up your year?
BERNARD TOMIC:   Yeah, very good.   The last three weeks have been very good.   Played with a lot of confidence, and I don't have any points to defend for six months. 
If I play well, I think I can do a great job and push my ranking really good.

Q.   You were ranked 37 coming here.   Where do you think you stand at the moment?
BERNARD TOMIC:   I'm just happy I don't have to defend any points for six months.   I can play tournaments and play relaxed and know I'm just going to go up.   Every match I win I go up. 
So it's a great feeling knowing till Wimbledon I have no points.   You can be seeded at the Grand Slam like the French and Wimbledon, and becomes a bit easier then for rounds to get through and not play the big names. 
Once you do that, I'm‑‑ you know, I think I'm now, you know, 50, 60 points away being seeded at Grand Slams.   That's almost‑‑ it's a great thing, I think.

Q.   You said earlier in the tournament that fitness was something you can improve on.   Is that something you will look at over the next couple of months?
BERNARD TOMIC:   Yeah.   I think I was pretty fit for this tournament.   I played a lot of matches the last three weeks, and I've got a lot of confidence.   You know, that first‑round win was huge for me.   I never thought I could win that.
You just get a confidence and you learn.   I think I'm doing a good job.   I think I'm gonna play a lot of good matches this year and learn more.   That's the way I think I'm gonna improve.

Q.   Would it be fair to say, with all respect, did you feel like a teenager out there tonight?   Was it sort of like man versus boy to an extent?
BERNARD TOMIC:   Well, now I know when I'm sitting at home and he makes Davydenko look like it's nothing.   You know, you see these players lose 6‑2, 6‑1 to him, and, yeah, there's nothing you can do. 
Like I said, I played pretty decent at times, but when I played well at times, he just played better and there was nothing I could do.   He broke my confidence down.

Q.   It has been a very exciting week for the Australians, both yourself and Lleyton.   Now it is just down to Lleyton.   How would you describe the run that he's been on and the challenge now that lies ahead tomorrow night?
BERNARD TOMIC:   Yeah.   Well, we have done a good job to get to the fourth round.   It's good for Lleyton that he finally played a good tournament in so long.   He's feeling confident now, and he's playing the best player in the world. 
He got to step out there giving it a go like I did.   And, you know, who knows?   It's tough for him to win that match against Novak, but, you know, he will have the crowd on his side.   You know, he will try his heart out, and we all know that.

Q.   Can you talk about your partnership with Qantas?   Will you be announcing anything in the next couple of days?
BERNARD TOMIC:   What, with Qantas? 

Q.   Yeah. 
BERNARD TOMIC:   About what?   (Laughter.)

Q.   Your dad's wearing the cap and you're in their ads wearing a Qantas shirt. 
BERNARD TOMIC:   I'm an ambassador now for Qantas, and I guess it's the role for the next two years.   I'm proud to be with them.   They're a great company, so what more can I say? 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT