SHANGHAI ROLEX MASTERS
October 11, 2011
Bernard Tomic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 B. TOMIC/M. Fish
  4-6, 6-1, 6-4 
 
   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.  
  
  Q. Looking at your ranking, you've gotten much higher. Where do you set your sights for the rest of the season?  
 BERNARD TOMIC: It's been a good year, like I said in the last conference. I can't expect much more from myself. I've had a good last six months. I'm playing well here.   
 The surface, conditions suit me. I think it's been a good run. I've got to play well now in the third round. I can play good in these sort of conditions. I'm happy with everything that happened this week. I think I've got a lot more to improve, you know, in the next few years.   
 But, you know, satisfied and done a good job.   
  
  Q. Are you setting any particular targets?  
 BERNARD TOMIC: I don't think I should set targets because when you set goals, things change, things happen. I think you've just got to play tennis, have fun, not have a lot of pressure. In the juniors, everything was under a lot of stress and you'd play. But if you have fun, good things happen.  
  
  Q. This is your first time in the third round of a Masters, first week in the top 50. What do you think might be next?  
 BERNARD TOMIC: I don't know. Just keeps getting better and better. Good things happen when you do the right things and work hard.   
 I think the season's coming to an end, but I've got a lot more in the tank for this tournament. I think I can play well. Got a good opportunity in the next round to play for the quarterfinal spot here.  
  
  Q. Are you particularly happy with your serve?   
 BERNARD TOMIC: Yeah, I mean, I don't serve that big, but I serve really accurate. So it's tough to read. Especially like Mardy, his serve's really tough to read. You can't get a pick on it. I think I've improved my serve the last year. I think that's why I'm getting a lot of free points and winning service games easy.  
  
  Q. What else are you particularly happy about with your game?  
 BERNARD TOMIC: I started believing a lot in myself the last six months a little bit more. It's been paying off. I think you got to believe if you work hard and you don't believe on court, it's not going to happen for you. You've got to come out with the right attitude against these players and good things happen like tonight.  
  
  Q. What did he say to you at the net?   
 BERNARD TOMIC: He said, Good luck for the rest of the tournament, play well. I think he had his chance last week where he beat me and I thought I was going to get beaten again this week. Luckily I turned it around.  
  
  Q. What did you do better tonight?  
 BERNARD TOMIC: Served much better. Last week we both didn't serve good. We played better off the ground. This week we both served well. It was a matter of who broke who in that third set.   
  
  Q. It's Dolgopolov or Ramos. What are your thoughts on that?  
 BERNARD TOMIC: Yeah, Ramos beat Cilic today and Dolgopolov is a very tough and unusual player. I think it's going to be a tricky match for them. Whoever wins, I've got a good opportunity to play for that spot in the quarters.  
  
  Q. Do you remember the match you played against Alex in Brisbane last year? It was a weird match, from my memory.   
 BERNARD TOMIC: Yeah, I played him, then I played him this year in the Sydney International. We play very unusual. It's tough when you play a player like that, especially me. We both play a bit funny. The situation can get a little bit tricky sometimes. Hopefully whoever I play, I play well against them.  
  
  Q. Who has the quirkier game?  
 BERNARD TOMIC: I would say him, to be honest (laughter). I'm quirky to a degree, but I still like to hit my ball. But he definitely plays, you know, much quicker than I do. He goes for his shots and points very quickly to finish them off.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT