MOUNTAIN WEST CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 9, 2007
Dale Layer
Cory Lewis
Jason Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:  We're joined by Colorado State University head coach Dale Layer and student-athletes Jason Smith and Cory Lewis.   
 Coach Layer, general comments on the game.   
 COACH LAYER:  I thought we had seen the best UNLV team last Saturday, but I thought they were even better tonight.  There's no way in the world that I would have thought we would even be in the game having witnessed them shoot 15 for 25 from threes.   
 I'm just proud of our guys for fighting and getting after it and making it a game as late as a couple minutes to play.  I would have figured anybody that would have shot 60% from threes would have been up 20, 25.  I'm proud of our guys for hanging in there, competing to the last tick of the clock.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Questions for the student-athletes.   
  
  Q.  Jason, what's it like when you're out on the court and a guy is hot like Kruger was, hitting three after three?   
 JASON SMITH:  It was a struggle, but Kruger's a really good player.  He was really hot tonight.  He did a really good job tonight.   
  
  Q.  Cory, you were going like you knew it could be your last game.  Jason, you just look exhausted.  How did you find anything left after last night?   
 CORY LEWIS:  We just dug deep.  We knew as a team we had to come out and play hard because they're a very aggressive team, a very good team.  We knew we had to play even with more energy because we was at their house, too.   
 It was going to be a hard-fought game.  We knew we had to find energy, some way, somehow.  We had to full together as a team and keep battling.   
  
  Q.  Jason, it seemed like as the game went on, you kept driving inside.  Even when you had the open shots, they sometimes weren't falling.  Was it just one of those nights?   
 JASON SMITH:  It was definitely a struggle for us inside.  They also had Anthony.  He's a real big presence inside.  He affected a lot of our shots.  They have a really good team.  I think UNLV will do really well in our tournament.   
 THE MODERATOR:  All right, guys, we'll let you two go.  Thanks, Cory and Jason.   
 Questions for Coach Layer.   
  
  Q.  Can you talk about their guard play.   
 COACH LAYER:  Well, they just shot the lights out.  Gee, what are you going to say?  I mean, they had, what, four or five guys knock down threes.  What are they shooting on the year, 33%?  They have just a little bit better than an average game, we may win.   
 But they shot the lights out.  I thought we played much better tonight than we did on Saturday here.  I thought we battled.  Every possession, every bounce of the ball we fought.  They just had it going.  I mean, I don't know what you do.   
 They were 9 for 12 from threes in the first half.  9 of the 12 were contested.  They had three open looks.  Well, hey, we were doing our job.  We were playing pretty well.   
 You know, their pressure is really, really good.  They've got five seniors who have been through the wars in two or three different leagues.  They're on their home court.  They're should shoot the lights out.  Who beats 'em tonight?   
 THE MODERATOR:  Thanks, coach.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT