SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 12, 2020
Cameron Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Congratulations. You were chasing Brendan all day today. Came to the 17th tee 2-down and win in a playoff. How would you describe your perseverance today?  
CAMERON SMITH: Yeah, I mean, just had to hang in there. No one was playing good golf today seemed like. Conditions got a lot easier at the end there, but just hung in there, and what do you know.   
 Q.  You've had a lot of Top 10s, Top 5s. You did get a PGA TOUR victory; it was a team event. Now to be an individual winner on the PGA TOUR, how impactful is that to you emotionally?  
CAMERON SMITH: Yeah, that's been one that I've wanted to tick off for a long time. I've been out here four or five years now, and to finally say that I have won an event by myself is quite good.   
 Q.  And it's been a troublesome yet rewarding week for you and your fellow Aussies in the field. Donating funds for birdies and eagles to those who are victims of the bush fires in Australia. If you could send an inspiring message to them, what would it be?  
CAMERON SMITH: I don't know. It's been an Aussie week. I think Wade won this morning over in Asia; you know, me winning here. I just hope that just brings a little bit of joy to some people that are going through some tough times.   
 Q.  Cameron, obviously probably not the way you pictured getting your first official stroke play win on the PGA TOUR, but has to feel really great.  
CAMERON SMITH: Yeah, you know, two or three holes left I really didn't think there was much of a shot. I knew I had to play some good golf, and I holed a good putt on 18, which felt good.   
Yeah, I mean, just kind of all fell into shape.   
 Q.  Obviously was pretty much raining all day long; had to keep focused all the time, didn't you?  
CAMERON SMITH: Yeah, it was tough to kind of concentrate. You were concentrating on other things, you know, keeping dry for one, keeping your clubs dry. So it was tough day mentally, but we got through it.   
 Q.  You move up to fifth in the FedExCup points list. Obviously you couldn't bring Walter with you, but you got a nice trophy to bring back to him.  
CAMERON SMITH: Yeah, it'll be good. I'm sure he'll love it. My girlfriend will love it. She's not here this week. It's a bummer she's missing out, she's with Wally, but it is what it is.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT