A MILITARY TRIBUTE AT THE GREENBRIER
September 13, 2019
Cameron Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 6-under par, bogey-free. Is this golf course any different today than yesterday?
CAMERON SMITH: No, not really. Probably relatively the same. We didn't have as much wind this morning swirling around. I know yesterday afternoon the wind wasn't necessarily strong but it kept switching directions. Kind of hard to gauge.
Nice to get out there today and shoot low.
Q. Today is Friday the 13th. You got a little lucky there at 17 with that ball staying -- even though it was in the penalty area it stayed up. When you hit that tee shot there did you think you were in the water?
CAMERON SMITH: When I initially hit the tee shot I thought it was straight down the middle. Then I went to pick up my tee and looked back at the ball and it was just a surprise to me to even see it going right. I got it a bit toey. I thought if anything it would be going left.
So, yeah, a bit weird, but very lucky to stay up there. Yeah, gave myself another shot at birdie.
Q. Good season for you last year. You didn't win, but I know it was decent season. It was capped off you were eighth in the automatic qualifier list for the Presidents Cup. What does that mean to you being able to play in Australia down there representing your country this year?
CAMERON SMITH: Yeah, it'll be awesome. I can't wait. I've been close couple times getting on to the international team, and what better way than to make my debut back home in Australia.
Yeah, it'll a great week. I got heaps of family and friends coming down, and hopefully the internationals can turn the ship.
Q. Solid second round here at the Greenbrier. What do you make of this course and how do you feel about your standing as it is now?
CAMERON SMITH: Yeah, really solid. I've had probably a month off golf now. It's nice to be back playing competitively again. The course is lovely; the resort is lovely. It's my first time here. Yeah, just soaking it all in.
Q. How important is it to get that rest? I know you took a couple weeks off and didn't touch a golf club, but you must be antsy to get back into the swing of things.
CAMERON SMITH: Yeah, it was. It was pretty much soon as I finished last you're I went straight back down to Australia, and, yeah, couple of weeks without the clubs seeing friends and family and catching up and doing all the things you do when you're home.
Yeah, it was good. Also gives you that motivation to get back into things, and I couldn't wait to get here.
Q. When it comes to the fall schedule a lot of guys are playing more this year than in the past. How do you have to treat the beginning of the season?
CAMERON SMITH: I mean, it's always been kind of the same for me. I've only ever been out here for three, four seasons, so I've always treated the fall season as a good way to get started. I know for a couple guys that have been out here for a bit longer it's a bit different now.
It's a great way to put some points on the board, and then a little break and back to Hawaii.
Q. What are the benchmarks you're trying to get when it comes to FedExCup points and maybe just quite literally getting things the way you like it with your game this time of year?
CAMERON SMITH: Yeah, I spoke to my caddie and the goal was, you know, these four or five tournaments that have as many points as I did the whole of last season, so that's the goal. Whether or not it's going to happen is another thing.
Pretty lengthy goal, but I'm looking forward to the challenge.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT