THE 148TH OPEN
July 19, 2019
Cameron Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What do you make of that round?
CAMERON SMITH: It was good.  It was very solid.  Much the same as yesterday, really.  A few more putts went in today.  Feeling really confident with the putter, which has allowed my longer game to free up.  It's nice.
Q. Did you think you'd be at this stage?
CAMERON SMITH: Yeah, that's usually the plan.  I've had a couple of weeks off to kind of refine something that I found a few weeks ago in Detroit.  Yeah, the game is just doing nice.
Q. What is it you found in Detroit?
CAMERON SMITH: It just went away from -- I was maybe a little too technical with my swing and just went back to trying to see a shot and hit it, which has been nice around here.  You have to hit so many different shots.
Q. You think you're happy with your position?
CAMERON SMITH: Yeah, a few putts went in today which was nice.  Yesterday I felt like I played the same or maybe even a touch better with the longer stuff and not quite as many drops.  It was nice to see a few more go in.
Q. Talk about your position right now.  We don't know how it's going to wind up, but right now you're right next to the top.
CAMERON SMITH: It's always good to be in contention any tournament, whether it's a regular tournament or a major championship.  And an Open Championship definitely it's typically one I haven't played my greatest golf in.  It's just nice to kind of get that feedback from everyone else I guess that I'm playing some decent golf again.
Q. When you got on that birdie run, what was it like compared to yesterday, when you feel like you're in the zone and reeling them off?
CAMERON SMITH: I was just feeling really good with the putter so I just knew if I gave myself an inside 20-footer I'd have a fairly decent look at it.  That was kind of the game plan, not necessarily attacking today, just give myself a chance and some of them went in.
Q. Have you got any family over here watching you?
CAMERON SMITH: No, I've got a few family friends in town.  We're all staying together.  It's been a good week so far.
Q. You started playing golf when you were quite small, I think?
CAMERON SMITH: Yeah, I was about three or four I think when I started.  So I've been playing for a while now.
Q. And that was with your dad.  Did he get you into it?
CAMERON SMITH: Yeah.
Q. What are you doing to amuse yourself?
CAMERON SMITH: We went down to Giant's Causeway the other day, just a bit of touristy things, my first time to Northern Ireland.  Trying to get all that stuff in, really.  Family friends have a couple of little kids so I've been down to the amusement park and stuff like that.
Keeping it pretty light.  I haven't been on, just watching.
Q. The attitude is get out there and do your thing?
CAMERON SMITH: It's always nice when I'm under the radar a little bit, not so much attention, just being able to do your own thing really and do the stuff that you need to do and just kind of get out of the way and relax.  It's been nice.
Q. It's a pretty big moment in Australian sport, though, isn't it?
CAMERON SMITH: Yeah, I mean, I don't know what to say.  I don't even know how the Storm are doing.  I've only been keeping an eye on the Broncs.  I know we lost in the Origin series, which he wasn't a part of.
Q. Have you met him?
CAMERON SMITH: Yeah.  Pat Welsh, back in Australia, the Channel 7 reporter, got us together last year as I was in Origin camp, so that was pretty cool.
Q. You haven't played a round with him?
CAMERON SMITH: No, not yet.  But I want to.
Q. Did you play that sport?
CAMERON SMITH: I did play a little league before.  I was a good attacker, just absolutely terrible defender, I didn't want to get hurt.  That's why I play golf.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT