THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 13, 2021
Cameron Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. On 18 how close was it to the tree trunk, inches?
 CAMERON SMITH:   I mean, it was pretty well right up against it.
 Q. What did you hit out of there?
 CAMERON SMITH:   It was a 9-iron.
 Q. What was the issue?  Whether you, like would catch part of the tree trunk or whether it's some branches out there or anything -- when you were deciding what to do, what was the down side?  What could have happened bad?
 CAMERON SMITH:   I mean, it was -- the way that the tree was angled, I had to aim out right and hit a big draw.  Obviously there was trees down the right.  I didn't have too much in the initial path.  It was kind of that last tree right on the end that we were worried about, because I kind of had to like thin it, as well, if you know what I mean.  I think if I went in there with my normal attack angle I would have hit the tree.
 Q. To get a 30-footer out of that on the green --
 CAMERON SMITH:   Yeah, I'm pretty happy with that.
 Q. I know you live close by.  Would you consider this your home course?
 CAMERON SMITH:   Yeah.
 Q. This is your first time breaking 70 in competition here in like 11 rounds.  Is there something --  we think that a guy playing at his home course would be so comfortable.  Is there something almost tricky about it when a TOUR event comes to your home course?
 CAMERON SMITH:   Yeah, it is.  We never really get -- the course is always in amazing condition here, but we never really get it this firm and fast.  They slow it down for 95 percent of the year for the guys that are coming in to play.  So it's completely a different golf course.  It demands so much more.  I've played this golf course so many times that I know it can bite you in the bum even though you're playing good.  It's just a tricky golf course.
 Q. So you kind of have to throw away what you know from playing it casually?
 CAMERON SMITH:   Yeah, absolutely.
 Q. The scores do seem to be a little bit lower.  How far back do you expect to be going into tomorrow?
 CAMERON SMITH:   I honestly thought the greens were going to be a little bit firmer this morning.  They were a little bit softer than I anticipated.  I thought they would have sucked some moisture out overnight.  I think it's going to be a pretty good scoring day.  I don't think it's going to get too windy.  I don't think anything crazy is going to happen with the weather.
 I mean, I'd be happy if I was five or six back, to be honest, going forward.
 Q. What did you hit off the tee on 12?
 CAMERON SMITH:   3-wood.
 Q. And then after the chip, that's when it kind of hit a sprinkler head?
 CAMERON SMITH:   Yeah, it was one of those sprinkler heads that they kind of cover up, and it kind of just got the edge of it and it bounced a little right, and I was like, oh -- I thought I hit a really good chip shot and it bounced right, and then kind of broke more than I thought and went in.
 Q. What did you hit into 17?
 CAMERON SMITH:   Gap wedge.
 Q. Did it just get away from you a little bit?
 CAMERON SMITH:   Yeah, it was just a bit of a tricky number for me.  It wasn't really anything hard.  If it was any other hole, it's a little bit off a 52, but with how it was down there, if you don't quite catch it, you're swimming.  Just tried to hit a normal one.
 Q. Take me through 12.  The tees were up today.  Take me through that dynamic and how that worked out for you today.
 CAMERON SMITH:   I mean, that's where I typically play it from when I'm playing the rest of the year.  They moved us back there I think for pace of play issues, which was a good move, I thought.  So I'm used to it being up there.  It's a great hole from up there.  Great hole.
 Q. 17, the hole is in that "better than most" location.  You didn't have quite the length Tiger did, but do you recall kind of that and maybe remembering what that was?
 CAMERON SMITH:   Yeah, I mean, the green has changed so much now, I think, from that time.  I think it was actually more severe when Tiger made that putt.  I mean, it was still a good putt.
 Q. You made the cut on the number yesterday.  What was it about today, feelings, weather-wise, what was it about today that worked so well for you?
 CAMERON SMITH:   I think -- I had a good practice session after yesterday's round, kind of sorted some stuff out with the longer game.  I felt really comfortable around the greens and putting all week.  It actually kind of probably saved me.  It made me be here on the weekend.  And then today I think I just hit the ball a little bit better.
 Q. For those of us who don't know, when you do want to play here, are you just like playing behind anyone who comes and plays or are there days where it's like blocked off for you guys to play?
 CAMERON SMITH:   The TOUR players typically get the first two groups of the day, so we get out before everyone else.  But we can play in the middle of the day, as well, if we want.
 Q. What happened on the second shot on 10?
 CAMERON SMITH:   It was probably a worse lie than what I thought it was.  I was having a good day, so I was like, I'll just try and hit it, and I probably shouldn't have.  There was a little bit of grass behind the ball.  I mean, looking back on it, hindsight is a wonderful thing.  I probably should have chipped out with that pin being front left, pretty gettable location from the fairway.  Yeah, just the grass caught my club, I hit a tree and it come back.
 Q. That didn't affect your decision to get a little risky on 18, though, right?
 CAMERON SMITH:   No.  I mean, I feel like I'm a gambler out on the golf course.  I feel like if there's a shot that I can try and -- that I feel comfortable with pulling off, I'll try and do it.
 Q. Australians have an incredible history with this tournament.  What's your theory as to why they play so well?
 CAMERON SMITH:   I just love this place.  I live locally.  I'm out here all the time.  I mean, the fans are great here.  The locals are awesome people that just -- I don't know, it's like a second home for me, but I love it personally.
 Q. Why do you think the Australians have done so well?
 CAMERON SMITH:   I think because of the shots the course demands.  It's a lot like -- although it's very different, it's a lot like those Sand Belt courses in Melbourne where you have to be very imaginative into the greens and hit lots of shots.  Most of the time you have to hit the perfect shot to be really close.
 Q. What are the plans of the rest of the day, local guy, dinner plans?
 CAMERON SMITH:   I'll just go home.  I'll just hang out.  I don't know, it's pretty hot today.  Actually might jump in the pool for the first time this year and just take it pretty easy.
 Q. Being so close to Augusta, have you been back up there since November, and are you looking forward to --
 CAMERON SMITH:   Yeah, yeah.  I haven't been back up there, but looking forward to going back there, obviously.  I love that place.
 Q. Having your name in the history books up there now, being the only guy to shoot in the 60s --
 CAMERON SMITH:   Yeah, I know.  That's a very weird thing.  I mean, I didn't even know that existed, to be honest.  I thought someone would have done it for sure.  Yeah, so that's very cool.
 Q. Jeff Plotts told me something, said you're one of the local guys who really shows interest in agronomy and he says you come around, you ask a lot of questions, you hang with him and the staff.  Is that something that's always interested you?
 CAMERON SMITH:   Yeah, I mean, I love my lawn, so I like to pick Jeff's brain on just like disease control, water, like fertilizer, all that stuff.  I like to just pick his brain.  Obviously they do such a good job here.  He's probably the man to ask.
 Q. Do you cut your own grass?
 CAMERON SMITH:   Yes.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT