MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 10, 2016
Cameron Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. I suppose yesterday didn't help, but it was a lot better today, wasn't it?
CAMERON SMITH: Yeah, it was a little bit better today. The course is playing a little easier. The pins are a little bit easier today as well. There should be a few good scores out there this afternoon, I think.

Q. I know you were a little pumped yesterday afternoon. What do you think you will take from your Masters experience when you sit back in the next week or so?
CAMERON SMITH: I loved it. Even though it didn't pan out the way I wanted it to, I still loved the week. I loved the place, and hopefully I can get back in next year.

Q. It's about pure golf, the members here love their golf? 
CAMERON SMITH: Yeah, I mean, this place and a couple others, St. Andrews is one, where the whole town is just about golf, and it's kind of unique. You don't get it very often, so you've got to soak it all in.

Q. So obviously you're desperate to get back here next year? 
CAMERON SMITH: Yeah, absolutely. I love the course. Like I said, I think with a little bit more experience next year I can have a crack at it.

Q. What's the plans now? I know you're going back Brisbane for a couple weeks off, but what is the agenda for you for the rest of the year?
CAMERON SMITH: I'll have a couple weeks off in Brisbane, hopefully get back over for New Orleans, I think the Zurich Classic. Then I'll probably do another three or four in a row, and just plan out the rest of the year from there.

Q. Do you think having been at this stage, been at the U.S. Open, you have got the game that will be pliable over here and can win over here?
CAMERON SMITH: I think every week that I can win, I don't show up to become 54th or something like that. Yeah, I think if all the good things happen, one week I can definitely be up there for sure.

Q. What is your schedule from here?
CAMERON SMITH: Probably have a couple weeks off and then come back for Zurich, I think.

Q. So you'll be going back to Brisbane?
CAMERON SMITH: Yeah.

Q. The first Masters, what do you take away from it? Harder than you thought?
CAMERON SMITH: It's definitely harder than I thought. Not generally the course, just the conditions. I mean, rarely do you see winds like we had the first three days on TV. I mean, I was coming in expecting it to be tough, but the conditions itself to be relatively easily and it definitely wasn't that.

Q. Has it fueled your desire to be back here again and keep you in the majors? 
CAMERON SMITH: Yeah. I mean, I'd love to be back. I love the course, I love Augusta. Not in yet, but hopefully I can get that sewn up in the next six months or so.

Q. What does it take to get back in?
CAMERON SMITH: A win probably or a Top‑50 in the world. That was my goal at the start of this year was to get into the Top‑50 in the world by the end of the year. I think my game is there, I've just got to keep at it and keep patient and hopefully it all falls into line.

Q. Obviously the conditions were affected this week. You've had two and three good rounds at tournaments. You just need four, right, and then you'll be right on your game? 
CAMERON SMITH: Yeah, I mean, this year, it's just been so frustrating. I'm hitting it, I feel as though I'm hitting it a lot better than last year. The putts and stuff like that around the greens are really going my way. My chipping has been good, but putts definitely haven't been rolling in as they were last year. I've just got to keep working on it. And like I said, just one week it all comes together and you never know.

Q. Maybe that break back home will be just enough to recharge the batteries and come out and push for it again?
CAMERON SMITH: I'm pretty fried after this week given the conditions and the scores I had. Can't wait for a few days off and to have a couple beers.

Q. What were your highlights out of today's round? 
CAMERON SMITH: I don't know really. I just sort of soaked it all in today. There wasn't really a goal in place or anything. The goal was to go out there and just have fun and soak it all in. I did that pretty good. Again, didn't probably play the way I wanted to, but that's golf.

Q. Do you think all the players are tired after those three days?
CAMERON SMITH: Yeah, I mean talking to a few of the guys this have been out here a while, they have never seen it like this. It's a hard golf course as it is, let alone 50 K winds. It doesn't help.

Q. What will you do back home? Obviously do some practice, just hang out with mates? What are you going to get up to?
CAMERON SMITH: I actually just got a house, so I'll probably be doing some work around the house. Just hanging out with friends and family.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT