U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 21, 2015
Cameron Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Great result today, especially that shot that set you up for a short eagle.  Nice way to kind of finish things out?CAMERON SMITH: Yeah, absolutely.  I wasn't really expecting it, to be honest.  I just wanted to get it somewhere on the green and hopefully I would have putted it. But to finish up and have a tap-in for eagle is a nice way to end.Q. What was your distance on that?CAMERON SMITH: I had 265 meters to the pin.  So about 290 yards or something, yeah.Q. What does this result mean to you?  Your major debut and you've done so well, you're right there close to the lead.CAMERON SMITH: Yeah, I can't put it into words at the moment, to be honest.  No, it still hasn't really sunk in, and I don't know what to say.  Sorry.Q. Did you ever dream this at the beginning of the week, is this something that's beyond your wildest dreams or did you think you could come and compete and have a great week and play Oakmont next year?CAMERON SMITH: Yeah, I thought I was coming in playing pretty solid.  I thought I could definitely compete and if I could get my way around the golf course pretty good I'd sort of thought I had a shot.  But it wasn't to be, really.  But I'm happy with where I finished, for sure.Q. Have you thought two seconds about all the doors this opens up?CAMERON SMITH: No, absolutely not.  No, I have no idea.  But like I say, I'm speechless.  I just want to sort of sit in the hotel room and let it all absorb.Q. (Inaudible.)CAMERON SMITH: I said to my caddie, Dan, on the tee, I said, Do we have a shot at getting there?  And he said, If you hit a good drive.  Hit a really good drive, ended up just short of the bunker there on the uphill slope, which helped a lot.  And it was just a perfect 3-wood.  And I hit it and it come off and it went a lot closer than I thought it was going to go, but I'm happy with it.Q. What was the feeling?CAMERON SMITH: It's pretty cool coming up the last and everyone's -- I've never experienced anything near that before.  That was awesome.Q. Can you talk about the roar you got?CAMERON SMITH: Yeah, it was like spine tingling, it was crazy, yeah.  Never, ever been -- nothing near that.  It's awesome.Q. Just talk about what this will do for you going forward, going forward in your career and your sense of confidence that I think this would instill?CAMERON SMITH: Yeah, definitely a lot of confidence.  To be up there in a major means that you can play with the big guys.  So just keep doing what I'm doing and hopefully it all works out.Q. Have you and Scotty talked?CAMERON SMITH: Yeah, good round today.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT