U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 19, 2015
Cameron Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. We talked at the start of the week and you said you'd take even par.CAMERON SMITH: Yeah, pretty happy.  I could have made a few more putts today, but all in all even par around here, you have to be happy with it.Q. We've talked about how you feel you belong, it's your first major and everything else.  It hasn't overwhelmed you at all yet.  You feel comfortable?CAMERON SMITH: Yeah.  Just treat it as another tournament, doing my stuff out on the course.  I think once you get into the zone it sort of doesn't really matter anyway.Q. How did you find that zone so easily?CAMERON SMITH: Just hitting shots.  You just get out there, get into a rhythm and then everything around sort of doesn't really matter, you're just hitting shots.  That's kind of how.Q. What are you going to do tomorrow?CAMERON SMITH: Like I said, just get out there and sort of get in the zone and keep doing what I'm doing.Q. You're getting a feel obviously for the big occasion.  The crowds are out there, you're getting a few cheers and whatnot.  But you're able to just let that go?CAMERON SMITH: Yeah, it's an amazing experience having the big roars when you hit a good shot.  And it's sort of never really happened before.  It's a new experience, but it's a pretty cool one.Q. Are you getting recognition of who you are?CAMERON SMITH: A little bit.  I get a few, "Go, Camerons" every now and then.  So, yeah, I think so.Q. Are you getting used to it?CAMERON SMITH: Yeah.Q. We also talked about the opportunity this week for potentially putting yourself in a legitimate position to make something happen for your future here.  That's got to be pleasing, as well?CAMERON SMITH: Yeah.  And I just take one step at a time. Like I said, just keep putting along, and hopefully a few more putts go in on the weekend.Q. How did you manage the wind today?  Looked like it was lower in lower places and higher in higher elevations.  Did it affect you at all today?CAMERON SMITH: Yeah, definitely the shot into the wind down the hill were hard to judge, like 9 and I think it was 5 down the hill.  So they were hard to judge.  But made a couple of good up-and-downs and got past it.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT