HONG KONG OPEN
October 17, 2014
Cameron Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  CAMERON SMITH:   Started off, I had four in a row, hitting it really well and putting it really well.   Missed a couple of fairways on the way in but made a couple of good up‑and‑downs and continued putting well.   So pretty happy.

Q.   A start like that makes you feel anything could happen presumably. 
CAMERON SMITH:   Yeah, that's right.   After four holes, you're still getting into the round, so I just tried to keep doing what I was doing.   Hitting fairways I think was the key to a good round today.

Q.   Anything in particular about those four birdies that made you think this is going to be a brilliant day? 
CAMERON SMITH:   Well, I holed a pretty good putt on the second hole, the 12th.   So that gives you good confidence for the rest of the round.   So yeah, I think, yeah, just hitting the fairways and putting well are definitely the two keys today.

Q.   Am I right to presume confidence is high with the season you're having?
CAMERON SMITH:   Yeah, it's pretty good at the moment.   Coming off four Top‑10s, so I'm feeling pretty good about my game and hopefully I can keep it rolling for as long as I can. 

Q.   Does this feel any different knowing it's a co‑sanctioned event with The European Tour with some big names involved? 
CAMERON SMITH:   Yeah, a little bit.   Obviously the quality of players I think this week is a little bit different to a normal tournament.   So sort of stepping up a level is nice, stepping up to some of the best guys in the world and competing against them is a good change. 

Q.   Presumably that's part of the challenge, that's part of the aim in the career, isn't it? 
CAMERON SMITH:   Yeah, that's right, on and upwards is the goal. 

Q.   What do you make of Hong Kong? 
CAMERON SMITH:   I like it.   We got in Monday night.   We haven't really had time to have a look around yet, so hopefully I can have a look in the city on the weekend. 

Q.   And the course itself, a good traditional track. 
CAMERON SMITH:   Definitely, like I said, just hitting fairways is the keys.   Short, you sort of have to think a little bit with your positioning on the fairway, which makes the fairways tougher to hit. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT