U.S. WOMEN'S MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
October 4, 2007
Meghan Bolger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  We're here with 2007 U.S. Mid-Am Champion, Meghan Bolger.  Give us some thoughts, how you are feeling and being the champion for the second year in a row.   
 MEGHAN BOLGER:  I'm still trying to get it all together here.  It's an absolute wonderful feeling.  After last year, you don't know what to say, and then to go back-to-back and defend -- there is a little pressure, and I tried not to put that on myself.  I'm just absolutely ecstatic right now, so it's coming together right now.   
  
  Q.  Last year you cruised to the match, and today you had some difficulty on some of the holes.  How difficult was it to do today versus last year when you were an unknown quantity?   
 MEGHAN BOLGER:  I think just going from the golf course, qualifying rounds, just wanted to learn the course, make some shots, settle down with some confidence off the drive and then just start to hit a lot of different shots.  For the matches, we had a tough bracket.   
 I mean, there is different players this year, and everyone is -- it's going to become a stronger championship as the years go on, and I felt the college kids were -- No.  We're fortunate to have a really strong, younger crowd right now, too.   
  
  Q.  Talk about today's match.  At one point you were 2 down; you put a couple of shots into the bunker, and then you changed --   
 MEGHAN BOLGER:  I knew I had to make some good shots there, and she was getting up and down from many places when she needed to.  I knew I needed to make a couple of putts.  I left a few putts out there.  I 3-putted nine, should have birdied that hole, and should have birdied 11, left it short.  Left a few putts out there; short game wasn't really there.  I hung in there for the most part.   
  
  Q.  Talk about 17.   
 MEGHAN BOLGER:  I knew exactly that shot, and I had been hitting those shots all week, hitting the high-cut shots into the greens.  The green firmed up today.  The putt, I hit it where I wanted to, that's why it was firm.  That's why I had pressure coming back, but that's being confident in the shots and making the putts coming back.   
  
  Q.  Talk about 17, hit a 3-wood instead of a driver --   
 MEGHAN BOLGER:  16?   
  
  Q.  16.   
 MEGHAN BOLGER:  16 was a line I hit yesterday.  That's the shot I wanted, and then I felt it kick left.  So that's the shot -- I hit a good tee shot.  That hole has been giving me problems off the tee all week.  I got out of trouble and ended up making 6, so gave myself a chance to make a 5-putt.  It's been hard off the tee.   
  
  Q.  You never figured it out --   
 MEGHAN BOLGER:  I should have just hit a 5-iron.  It didn't set up very well for me, but I did what I needed to do to hang in there anyway.   
  
  Q.  (Question regarding playing on the Curtis Cup Squad.)   
 MEGHAN BOLGER:  I don't know what it's going to take.  For me it's a special thing and just really -- it's hard to explain, to be here in this position, and if it works out, it works out.  It would be the ultimate honor, but I'm not in charge.  All I can do is play golf and play the best I can.   
  
  Q.  What's it mean to win two in a row?   
 MEGHAN BOLGER:  I can't describe it.  I was lost for words last year, and now -- it's a feeling that I'm very, very fortunate to have and to be part of this group.  The people that I've met this past year and being part of the USGA is remarkable.   
 THE MODERATOR:  You came here for media day and played the course for the first time.  How did you feel?  Did you feel the course might set up well for your game?   
 MEGHAN BOLGER:  I played it a couple of times.  It was a great day.  I didn't know what to expect just being invited to play for the media day.  It was just a relaxing day for me.  I'm glad I had the chance, the opportunity to play the golf course and meet the media and everyone that was involved, so that was a pleasure, just being able to do that.   
 I didn't try to think about it too much.  I just really wanted to learn the golf course a little bit.   
  
  Q.  Give us your toughest match this week, Dawn or Kerry?   
 MEGHAN BOLGER:  Dawn was a tough match, played a little stronger today, and Kerry came down to the last hole.  They were both great matches, this one -- this one was for the championship, though, so it's got to be today!  (Chuckles.)   
  
  Q.  Have you heard from your Mississippi players at all?   
 MEGHAN BOLGER:  No, I have not.  They're busy with their season right now, and I'm sure after today -- they're all great kids, and I wish them the best, and they are a good group of girls.   
  
  Q.  When would your next tournament be?  Winter circuit in Florida?   
 MEGHAN BOLGER:  I'm going to play as much as I can in January in Florida, yeah.   
  
  Q.  The different events down there?   
 MEGHAN BOLGER:  Yeah.   
  
  Q.  Have you played in those events?   
 MEGHAN BOLGER:  I haven't in the past few years.  Last year my brother got married, so I missed a couple, so I did not play last year, but I've played at the golf courses a lot.   
  
  Q.  The foster kids in your family and growing up with such a big family, what's it like?   
 MEGHAN BOLGER:  It's -- there's a lot of kids running around.  We're fortunate to have Terra a part of our lives; she is the youngest.   
  
  Q.  She's adopted?   
 MEGHAN BOLGER:  Yes.  She's 14 now.  There are six others right now.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Has your family always had foster kids, even from when you were young?   
 MEGHAN BOLGER:  About the last 10 years.   
  
  Q.  Your mom is involved with the program?   
 MEGHAN BOLGER:  Yeah, mom does a lot of work with the Foster Care Program.   
  
  Q.  Your dad is retired?   
 MEGHAN BOLGER:  Yeah.   
  
  Q.  What did he do?   
 MEGHAN BOLGER:  He was a postal inspector.  Now he plays a lot of golf and works for me.   
  
  Q.  Talk about amateurs in Philadelphia.   
 MEGHAN BOLGER:  Our course alone has a strong program, Billy McGinnis won the state Am at 46 this year -- excuse me, qualified for the U.S. Am, as well.  I've been able to play a lot of golf with the men at our golf course.   
  
  Q.  Has anyone else won two national championships like you?   
 MEGHAN BOLGER:  I'm not --   
  
  Q.  Females?   
 MEGHAN BOLGER:  I'm not sure.  Our Philadelphia association is wonderful, and I'm sure yesterday playing they were -- they were having --   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 MEGHAN BOLGER:  Yeah, from that area.   
  
  Q.  Pretty stealth players.   
 MEGHAN BOLGER:  Yeah, I can't answer the question, though.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 MEGHAN BOLGER:  Yeah, that's a good friend of ours, yeah.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Thank you and congratulations again!   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT