ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 4, 2020
Lance White
Ismini Prapa
Dayshanette Harris
Gabbie Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Pittsburgh - 67, Notre Dame - 65   
LANCE WHITE: This is the result of their hard work and that growth, and so whenever they are finally able to see it and get to experience it, I'm pleased and excited for them to have that opportunity. These kids made plays today and especially when you get to play against Notre Dame, at Florida State and here they've been the pinnacle of what we all wanted to be for this whole time. It's a huge win for our program, getting to play in March and we get to survive and play another day. I'm excited about that.   
 Q.  Coach, all of the sudden boom, you were there, talk about that.  
LANCE WHITE: I thought what Ismini brought to us in the first half, because we were a little shaky at te beginning of the game. We went over to the practice facility to practice and all of the sudden I thought our kids don't even know this is the practice gym. They think this is where we're going to play tomorrow.   
Whenever you start those new kids that have never been in this building and we were a little shaky and Ismini came in and provided us with a huge boost in the first half and calmed us down and made some big shots. The way she guarded 13 on Notre Dame's team and did a great job of helping and playing off of her and allowing us to get back in the game and been able to take that lead at half and all of that stuff that really helped us give us the confidence we needed down the stretch. She was huge throughout the game. Wanted her there toward the end, it would have helped us a little bit, we made it closer than we needed to but I was really pleased with her effort today.   
 Q.  Dayshanette, can you walk us through that last possession where they trap you on the wing and somehow you worked your way out of it?  
DAYSHANETTE HARRIS: Coach set up a play and he told me if I don't see anything, stay calm and do what I do and with my teammates clearing out for me I was able to get to the bucket and got a God blessed bucket.   
 Q.  For any of you, you had success against Georgia Tech during the regular season. Talk about that game for those of us who didn't see it and what do you have to do well tomorrow?  
GABBIE GREEN: The Georgia Tech game? I don't remember any of it.   
LANCE WHITE: We will go back and think about Georgia. Great team they hurt us on the inside whenever they played us before and, again, they have length and that's going to be the thing that we have to be able to do. They outrebounded us and that's something that we're going to have to concentrate on to make sure to handle that. Again, we will go back now and get ready for them and take that one tonight.   
 Q.  Two points, 7 to go you come out of the timeout and you steal the ball from Notre Dame. Was that something you drew up or in the huddle or a spur of the moment play?  
LANCE WHITE: Again I always believed players make plays. I can get them in spacing and do that stuff and they made two great plays, she saw openings I'm going to try to put 'em in position.   
Again, it still comes down to this time of year in March big-time players make big-time plays and I thought she made two huge plays down the stretch.   
 Q.  Ismini, you were 4 for 4 from 3 in the first half. What was it like for that momentum going in the first half?  
ISMINI PRAPA: I have been working for it, my teammates found me so I knew I had to step up.   
 Q.  For any of the players it's been a hard, tough season, a lot of losses, hard work. Is this validation? Does it feel good, I guess, to have a win to sort of signify everything you've been working toward?  
GABBIE GREEN: I say yes because throughout these games we've lost a lot of games and talking outside of the locker room and in the gym and trusting the process and trusting each other and today we did that in the huddles, and outside of the huddle we had to lift each other up and it just showed today.   
 Q.  Dayshanette, this was a double-double for you, is this the biggest game you've every played?  
DAYSHANETTE HARRIS: Make it to the National Championship, that will be the biggest game.   
LANCE WHITE: As to date, yes.   
 Q.  Coach, there was, I heard that Lorri Johnson passed away and I don't know if you or the players had any relationship with them but to have that earlier and to have this big win probably an emotional day for the program as a whole?  
LANCE WHITE: Absolutely. Lorri is the all-time leading scorer, men or women at Pitt. For somebody that -- she was the first women's basketball jersey to ever be retired and that's really important. It's really important for our present players, for our future players to have somebody that they can look up to, up in the rafters and that's where I want my jersey to be hung. Her legacy will always live on. We send all of our condolences to her and her family. From a small town outside of Pittsburgh. The things she was able to do is phenomenal but that legacy and being able to do those things once I got to Pitt our administration said that's something that's really important to hear is that we have to get a women's basketball jersey retired because they deserve it and her points speak for themselves.   
Now we have that up in the rafters to always look up to and she'll always be a part of Pitt women's basketball.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much. Congratulations.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT