MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 16, 2015
Nannette Hill
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Up and down an 18.   Obviously a really good way to finish the round.   
NANNETTE HILL:   Yeah, it was excellent.   Ball was sitting down.   Well, take it back.   This is crazy having the cameras.   I'm not used to that.  
But, no, so we were kind of dead in the bunker and had a high lip.   The water's down there, so we had to lay up.   Hit a 3‑wood from 255 yards.   Laid up to that little chip shot.  
But that shot was‑‑ you had to really get under it and hit it just right.   So I was fortunate enough to hit it good.   Had about a six‑, seven‑footer, and I just pumped myself up for the putt and said, I'm going to make this.  
I made it, so...  
   
 Q.   You obviously can't win the tournament on day one, but you have to feel good about the position you put yourself in.   
NANNETTE HILL:   Yeah, I feel really good.   I've been playing really solid coming into the season.   All season I feel like I've been very consistent and building off good stuff.  
So came to this course on Sunday and felt like it fit my eye really well.   Yeah, it was good today.  
   
 Q.   You said you weren't used to all the cameras.   How nice is it to be in this situation?  
NANNETTE HILL:   No, it's pretty cool.   It's really cool.   It's unbelievable actually.   Yeah, had to kind of block it out coming up the last three holes and stay focused, so that was what I was trying to do.  
   
 Q.   Will there be some pressure the next few days now that you do have all the attention?  
NANNETTE HILL:   I mean, if I focus on that, yeah, but I'm not going to.   I'm just going to play one shot at a time and keep doing what I'm doing.   
   
 Q.   Laura Diaz, 62 here first round last year.   
NANNETTE HILL:   Did she?   
   
 Q.   You're leading this year.   What's up with you Demon Deacons?  
NANNETTE HILL:   Another Demon Deacon over here.   I don't know.   Just kind of reminds me of North Carolina a little bit, right?   A little bit.   
I don't know.   
   
 Q.   Do you think you can do the same thing tomorrow?   What do you think?   
NANNETTE HILL:   Yeah.   Again, I'm just going out there and hitting one shot at a time and sticking with my process for each shot.  
Yeah, keep rolling the putter good and that's it.  
   
 Q.   How is the course playing?  
NANNETTE HILL:   I think it's playing‑‑ you got to be in position off the tees.   You got to hit the driver well.   
Yeah, I mean, if you're hitting the driver well and putting it good, you could score good out here.  
   
 Q.   Feel like playing in the morning may be more receptive, calmer maybe?   
NANNETTE HILL:   Probably.   Doesn't look like the wind is going to pick up that much.   Usually it's nice to get out first thing in the morning.  
   
 Q.   Not really a bomber's paradise.   A lot of players have said length doesn't really help you a ton out here.   
NANNETTE HILL:   I think it does.  
   
 Q.   Yeah?  
NANNETTE HILL:   Yeah, because you get shorter clubs in and you can put them closer to the hole.   
So, yeah.   
   
 Q.   You may have touched on this experience today, but to have to a great round...   
NANNETTE HILL:   No, it's fantastic.   Been kind of waiting for this the whole year.   I know I've been playing really well the whole year and haven't quite been rewarded.  
I kind of put it all together today.  
   
 Q.   Career low on tour?   
NANNETTE HILL:   Yeah.   Yeah, yeah, solid day today, yeah.  
   
 Q.   Did you know where you stood on 18?  
NANNETTE HILL:   Yeah, I saw Wei Ling was like at 5, but then when I hit my putt I saw she made it to 4.   Yeah, I wanted to make the putt.   Yeah.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT