XXIX OLYMPIC GAMES
August 12, 2008
Rafael Arevalo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  R. FEDERER/R. Arevalo
6-2, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. What do you feel just after your match? What did Roger say to you? 
 RAFAEL AREVALO: Well, I feel -- I can say I feel happy because I played a good match. I could get in the rhythm of Roger in one moment in the second set, and I'm happy for this, because is my second tournament ATP. 
 I'm also happy because I won yesterday against the first top hundred. I'm glad because I play good today. 

 Q. Did you have a special tactic and did you really believe in your chance?
 RAFAEL AREVALO: Yes, we talk yesterday about the match of today. We think play to his backhand and serve not so hard, just try to serve more with topspin and more serves to the body. And I think it has the results. 

 Q. When you saw you would play against Federer, what did you think?
 RAFAEL AREVALO: No, it was just extra motivation for me. I saw the first match, difficult match against Lee. Was like motivation for me, no, because I said if I win this match, I can play and feel the ball of the No. 1 in the world. 

 Q. What was it like to play in that stadium with all those people? Have you ever played in a situation anything like that before?
 RAFAEL AREVALO: Well, I'm part of the Davis Cup of my country. I play before in a stadium. But I think not like this, full of people. 
 Is hard also to play when you don't used to play in the stadium because is different, no? Normally when you play outside in the normal court, when you do the toss for the serve, you can see the skies. Here you see just people, so is a little more difficult, no? 

 Q. We didn't see you smile very much. Do you smile very often or were you stressed or was that out of respect?
 RAFAEL AREVALO: No, I just want to be concentrate, no, stay focused in the match. I was enjoying also inside. But I also wanted to win, no? So I was like trying to be focused during the match. 

 Q. Did you consider you played your best tennis this evening?
 RAFAEL AREVALO: Well, I think I play very good. But also in moments I feel I can play better also because sometimes Federer play some balls. When I run, sometimes I hit the ball a little bit short in the court, and he was coming hard and attack my ball and come to the net. At the moment I was feeling I can do it a little bit better, no? 
 But also is Roger. Is still the best player in the world now. And I play great tennis today. 

 Q. Do you think you can beat Federer?
 RAFAEL AREVALO: I was trying, no, to beat him. But he is too strong. He serve very good, always very close to the lines. I just had a one chance to break him, and you played like a great point, no? 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT