THE CELTIC MANOR WALES OPEN
June 4, 2009
Alan McLean
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   ALAN McLEAN: I was very happy with my round today coming off the last two weeks where I was not overly confident, and to shoot 5-under par, I was very happy.  
  
  Q. I overheard, a lesson and a new putter helped.   
 ALAN McLEAN: Yeah, both helped. Obviously the driving, to keep the ball in play here was key for me today. I struggled off the tee the last couple of weeks, so the lesson really helped there, and obviously the new putter, I made some putts today. They both contributed.  
  
  Q. You owe thanks to the caddie, do you, for the putter?  
 ALAN McLEAN: I never give him any thanks. No, he did, he picked it up, but I'm not going to give him any credit for that. (Laughing).  
  
  Q. You were playing pretty well the other week, just a bit up and down, really.   
 ALAN McLEAN: Yeah, unfortunately my situation this year with being on a partial medical, I've had to wait for events and with the rearrange and everything else. I was in Category 11, I obviously didn't get into Ireland or the PGA.   
 So I had two weeks off, and as a golfer, you'd like to keep playing week-after-week after week and build up some momentum. But unfortunately I haven't had the luxury to be able to do that.   
 So it's been a bit stop/start and that's been difficult.  
  
  Q. I guess you have to look at the money side of things, as well.   
 ALAN McLEAN: Yeah, it's a little more pertinent in my situation. Including this week, I have five events left for my medical and realistically, looking at the schedule, if I don't make my required, I think it's about 150,000 Euros, I'll be dropping back to the bottom of Category 12 and that doesn't look too good there.   
 You know, it's a bit of a pressure-cooker situation for me.  
  
  Q. Seems like a game show or something: You're presented with at the start of the season, here is a good prize, here is your chance; but...   
 ALAN McLEAN: Exactly. Unfortunately this week, going forward, too, it really has felt like a double-edged sword. I'm unable to go play The Challenge Tour, Saint Omer, because it's a main Tour event. But it also counts on The Challenge Tour; and if I play it, it counts against me; but the money is so small, I can't really go; but it's a big event on The Challenge Tour, tah-da, tah-da, tah-da.   
 It's unfortunate. What do you do? You've just got to concentrate on the now and control what you can control, really.   
  
  Q. Because when you throw in that need for the momentum of playing of events, that's another one that's just right in the mix.   
 ALAN McLEAN: And unfortunately we have two weeks off after this. So, you'll see, I'll probably go home and probably put my feet up for a week and then see it from there.   
  
  Q. Everyone travels a lot in this game, but is yours special circumstances?   
 ALAN McLEAN: Well, I think it's especially prevalent to anyone in category 11 especially down towards the bottom. You never know. Just the way everything works out, people start to withdraw closer to the time, and they have until Saturdays preceding the event to withdraw without incurring a big fine. You are always watching the computer. You can't really make any fixed -- what's the word I'm looking for -- any fixed plans. And so that does make life difficult.   
 But I suppose when you get to Category 8 or whatever, it makes it a little more sweeter to enjoy.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT