DEUTSCHE BANK - SAP OPEN TPC OF EUROPE
May 20, 2004
Alan McLean
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








GORDON SIMPSON:  Alan, a lovely start to Deutsche Bank SAP open, and maybe just tell us what your story was today.
ALAN McLEAN:   I hit my driver extremely well today.  I think I probably missed only few  fairways and when I didn't hit it, I hit it long and straight.  So, that was the key and getting near the flags.
GORDON SIMPSON:  Obviously you had a pretty decent finish in Seville, getting into position where you can contend to tournaments.
ALAN McLEAN:   I'd like to think I am.  At the end of the day, you play four rounds, and this is just the first round.  You know, come Sunday, I hope to be up there and challenging.
Q.  What is the difference this year compared to previous years, your scoring?
ALAN McLEAN:   I think the golf courses are more suited to my game than on the Challenge Tour.  I  think the Challenge Tour's courses are a little, for lack of a better word, weak, and sometimes that can take the driver out of your hand and that's probably the best club in my bag.  I'm able to hit it, and you learn     you try and make the putts.
Q.  What time were you up this morning?
ALAN McLEAN:   7:30.
Q.  How good is it going out first?
ALAN McLEAN:   The greens, especially the front nine were unbelievably perfect.  You can't say anything bad about them.  There wasn't a spike mark on there.  I hit it quite close, and it was nice.
Q.  It obviously helps to play better, but the prize money has to be a pretty big incentive?
ALAN McLEAN:   This tournament is really awesome.  It has a fantastic feel about it, and to have Ernie Els and Thomas Bjorn and the top players coming out, it does definitely adds a new dimension to the tournament.  I wish every week was like this.
Q.  How well do you know Ernie?
ALAN McLEAN:  Well enough to say hello. I had a beer or two with him in December in that little tournaments he runs and I do know him.  I said hello to him the other day.
Q.  How old were you when you left Clydebank in Scotland?
ALAN McLEAN:   Three years.
Q.  But you live where?
ALAN McLEAN:   My wife and baby girl are in Canada.  So we reside in Thunder Bay in Canada, Ontario.  It right on the cusp between Ontario and Manitoba.
GORDON SIMPSON:  What was the reason for the decision to live in Canada?
ALAN McLEAN:   Twofold, one financial, and secondly my wife's family and her friends are there.
Q.  Do you have a dream of the Ryder Cup?
ALAN McLEAN:   Yeah, a good win, it would boost me up the rankings.  Definitely been thinking about it.  Still haven't given up on the dream.  You know, realistically, somebody had to look two years down the line, and go from there, but golf is a funny game, and if I can string a couple of good rounds together, you never know.
GORDON SIMPSON:  Was it a conscious decision of your own to retain Scottish nationality or were you ever pressured to change to South African?
ALAN McLEAN:   When I first turned pro, they said you have to pick one, and there was no option really.  That's why I picked Scotland.
GORDON SIMPSON:  Take us through the highlights of your round.
ALAN McLEAN:   The first hole I hit a good drive and was just left of the green in two and chipped and putted from probably about four feet.

Second hole, I hit a good drive again.  Tried to     I was probably a bit aggressive there, my only drop shot of the day, short drive beyond a little mound there, and I almost actually chipped it in there.

The third, the par  5, big drive.  I hit a 4 iron to probably about 15 feet and 2 putted for birdie.

The first hole, I missed a fairway right, on the green with a 7 iron, and holed a really good putt there, probably about 30 feet.  That's the longest one of the day.

6, I hit a 5 iron just flag high, it went probably about 12 feet by and I made that for birdie.

Then I think my next birdie was on 12.  Hit a good drive, 5 iron to about 15, 18 feet, made birdie.

On the 16, I hit a 5 iron in there to about four feet.  Made that.

17, I laid up for my second.  I was tempted to go for the green later and hit a sand wedge in there about three feet, two feet.
GORDON SIMPSON:  Well done and we'll maybe see you at Oakland Hills yet!


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT