U.S. OPEN
September 6, 1996
Todd Woodbridge
Mark Woodforde
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Congratulations. It seems like you have a dynasty happening here. Second consecutive
U.S. Open. Four consecutive Wimbledons. What makes you so successful today?

TODD WOODBRIDGE: I don't know.
MARK WOODFORDE: We just asked for our record. We are going to look through it and see
ourselves. It is just a combination of points and strengths and weaknesses that we have,
and we probably -- lefthanded, righthanded, we want to win regardless being at singles or
doubles. And, you know, we cover for each other. We communicate very well on the court and
maybe some of my weaknesses Todd, you know, covers enough and I, you know, cover my
strengths; cover some of his weaknesses so, you know, there is not one real blatant
weakness in our game where some of the other teams maybe there are.

Q. Do you feel like the doubles dynasty of this time, I mean, there has always been
like --

TODD WOODBRIDGE: Maybe of the '90s. At least in these first six years so far pretty
amazing. I guess when you go into a tournament, you don't look at your record because it
is a new tournament and it is today and now, when you sort of go back, it is pretty
incredible.

Q. When you look back on the times, say from the end of the French to now, what do you
think?

TODD WOODBRIDGE: I don't think you could ever ask for a better year. I don't think you
could ever ever do better basically. We won every big tournament there was to win in a two
and a half month period, so, we have dealt with a lot of highs and a couple of lows, a lot
of pressure and we have come through pretty strong and I think that is actually due to the
fact that we have both been able to help each other. That is what we do. We are able to
cover when one guy is not playing as well or having a few troubles mentally or off the
court or physically, or whatever, the other guy is willing and capable to take over and
help and do the right thing. That is why it is teamwork. That is what is a good team.

Q. How many years have you actually been teamed together?

TODD WOODBRIDGE: 6.

Q. How did you get together?

MARK WOODFORDE: Well, he was looking for a partner. I was look looking for a partner
and my - I was working with a physical trainer. I had really no coach in late 1990 and
Todd had a coach, but no physical trainer and the coach and the trainer got talking
saying, well, maybe they could play with each other. I think basically that was it. We
decided to give it a go. We lost badly in the first match we ever played, but the second
one, we had a pretty good result and we, you know, our coach and the trainer sort of
convinced us that perhaps there was a future together so now the coach coaches both of us
and the trainer trains both of us as well.

Q. What was the first one you ever played?

TODD WOODBRIDGE: New Haven up the road.

Q. Had you been friends before that?

TODD WOODBRIDGE: Not -- sort of. I was a junior and just coming out of juniors actually
I think it - I might have still been in my junior year the first time we played and Mark
was, to me, he was one of the established players in Australia. He had nearly beaten Lendl
at Wimbledon and I looked up to him quite a lot. He was someone that I would like to play
or beat, however you would like to look at it and -- sorry, I have lost my --
MARK WOODFORDE: Train of thought.
TODD WOODBRIDGE: -- train of thought.

Q. What is the name of the coach?

TODD WOODBRIDGE: Ray Ruffles.

Q. And the trainer? 

TODD WOODBRIDGE: Mark Waters.

Q. When you look back at the team that you have played over the years, Eltingh and
Haarhuis would be your greatest rivals?

MARK WOODFORDE: I think one of our great rivals. When we first began, there was Fitzy
and Jarryd were still around, Flach and Seguso, although they sort of finished once we
started, we got to play them. They were an established team. Fitzy and Jarryd sort of
retired as well, and Jacco and Paul came along and we have had some - we haven't played
each other a whole lot, but we have had some pretty big matches and --
TODD WOODBRIDGE: When we have played them, it has been the final U.S. Open, final of
the World Championships, semis of the World Championships, always been semis in Olympics.
Always been in matches that have meant a lot, so.....

Q. How does this win today compare with other wins you have had over them?

MARK WOODFORDE: I mean, it is a Grand Slam and, you know, it a huge tournament for us.
It is - was a major focus from you guys and the media about that. It is one of the premier
tournaments and it is very high on our list, you know. Along with the other three - other
Slams, I mean, it is the best.
TODD WOODBRIDGE: Probably it rates well with us today because we actually lost to them
two years ago in the finals here back in '94 we lost the final. So, for us, it was, you
know, we didn't want to let them get two of the U.S. Opens over us.

Q. A little trouble yesterday and today. Is that when the communication really kicks in
when you guys are down a little bit?

TODD WOODBRIDGE: Yeah, I think experience too of playing a long time together. Perhaps
earlier in our partnership, the first couple of years, I don't think we may have won those
matches because we might have paniced a little bit and not being able to let ourselves,
you know, have confidence and patience in ourselves whereas yesterday and today, we were
able to just, you know, keep our heads down and keep trying to make the ball and be in
play and let the other guys beat us if they do beat us too good, but we certainly -- we
weren't going to give it to them and that comes with experience.

Q. Disappointing that this tournament continues not to showcase the doubles final and
not even put it over five sets?

MARK WOODFORDE: Yeah, it's disappointing not playing the best of five, but it is also
disappointing not playing any of the early matches on that Center Court there. It is one
of the most difficult courts to play on and they were fortunate enough to play their semis
yesterday and in some conditions then to come out, it is just, you know, I wish that had
followed the lead like the Australian and Wimbledon and play some early rounds on Center
Court even if it is maybe some night matches, but Wimbledon is and the Australian really
the only ones. The French, they are the same. I mean, you are lucky to play a doubles on
any of their show courts, really.
TODD WOODBRIDGE: I think the president of the USTA just said on the court, he said you
have some great doubles matches but you people don't come out and watch. Well, it is
pretty hard to come out and watch at 11 o'clock Friday morning because most people are at
work during a weekday and it is in the middle of the day. Perhaps they could have a look
and play it when it deserves to be played as a U.S. Open final.

Q. Does the French become even more important now?

TODD WOODBRIDGE: Well, I don't know if it is more important, but that will be
everything for us, I guess, that would be. We have won all the major championships, so, it
would be great to get that.

Q. Do you think you will ever win the Grand Slam in one year?

TODD WOODBRIDGE: That is pretty tough. Pretty difficult.

Q. Taking that point a little bit further, does it put you - a little bit more pressure
on you going into the Australian now that you have won these three big ones in a row?

MARK WOODFORDE: Yeah, probably. You know, you look at it you think, you know, three in
a row, two in a row, if you just count the Olympics, but yeah, I think maybe that -- maybe
what we suffered from, maybe this year at the Australian Open, you know, we certainly
didn't play our best tennis there at the tournament and playing at home, I guess, is a
little bit extra pressure and I guess now having won it two again and the Olympics, you
know, we are going to put pressure on ourselves to try and win our own tournament again,
but, you know, probably the priority would be, you know, the French anyway, I think.

Q. Where do you go from here?

MARK WOODFORDE: Rest. Home.
TODD WOODBRIDGE: Davis Cup in Croatia.

Q. When?

MARK WOODFORDE: Two weeks.
TODD WOODBRIDGE: A week off and then the following week is Davis Cup.

Q. Do you have any special plans for your Olympic medal? What are you going to do with
it? Just hang out in the drawer?

MARK WOODFORDE: We are actually going for the first time - we were a little bit
disappointed that our schedules couldn't allow us to get back to Australia and really
enjoy some of the celebrations, I mean, we heard, you know, some fantastic stories about
how they really honored the Gold Medalists and we weren't able to go back there. Now we
have decided to - after the Davis Cup, we are going to fly into Melbourne on the grand
final of the IFL, it is a big, you know, football match, probably don't know about. They
do show it on TV here, and there is supposed to be like thousands of people expected to
the final and they honor the gold medalists, so Todd and I are going to fly in just for
the day or for the afternoon really couple of hours and be, you know, they get you on a
convertible car and take you around the grounds and obviously you are applauded a little
bit so since we haven't, you know, participated in any of that, this is -- we thought we
may as well get back there if we can because the next week we are playing in Singapore
which isn't too far away. So, we feel it is important to sort of get back in it and show
the rest of that country that, you know, we were just as excited as what they were that we
won the gold medal.

Q. What do you think the atmosphere will be like playing for the Gold Medal in Sidney?

MARK WOODFORDE: If we are still playing well and had a chance, it would be huge a great
help that was today.

Q. Are you still showing the medal?

TODD WOODBRIDGE: I am heading home tomorrow hopefully I am sure that that is going to
happen.
TODD WOODBRIDGE: A lot of kids in the neighborhood that live in - I am sure I am going
to have a few knock on the door once they know that I am home. 

Q. Is doubles more important in Australia?

TODD WOODBRIDGE: I think Australians are huge sport fans in all sports. When they have
people that have results, they expect them to do well and they really sort of get lined
them and it doesn't matter whether it is in squash or tennis or batmitton or football or
soccer.
MARK WOODFORDE: But we wish they would give more publicity for the doubles anyway
because it is still lacking. You know, I think I mean, our four Wimbledons, you know,
winning that Gold Medal is totally overshadowed winning four Wimbledons in a row. So, you
sort of wish that maybe we would hear about it a little bit more maybe if we got back
there a little bit more often to make it a little bit bigger as well.

Q. Do you like the fifth set tiebreaker?

TODD WOODBRIDGE: Or the third set tiebreak?

Q. Third set, sorry.

TODD WOODBRIDGE: Not much, no. I think it is fairly - it is a little bit of luck and I
don't think like yesterday, last night with Sampras and Corretja, you know, he misses a
ball by that much, doublefaults on the matchpoint, and four something hours of tennis is
finished now and then. I was let down in that match. I was disappointed and I think
today's match is pretty much similar, the last time we played, it was 18-16 in the third
and we could have had another match like that and it builds into great watching, great
tennis. It is almost like it is all, bang, it is over. I don't think it is good.

Q. Surprisingly, Corretja said that he favored it.

TODD WOODBRIDGE: I wouldn't the way I finished like him.
MARK WOODFORDE: He was probably so tired he is just probably wanting to win.

Q. What do you think of Sampras's performance? What happened to him and how he --

MARK WOODFORDE: I had breakfast this morning - at breakfast, we were both sort of like,
yeah, you know, I think it was unfortunate the way it finished for Alex. I think Alex
Corretja had a lot of support and, you know, Pete has been through that situation a couple
of times and I think it has been highlighted by some other players and, you know, I mean,
what an effort though to be able to just whack down those aces and still play incredible
points when he is throwing up, not that I don't think that he is sick or anything, but I
mean, what will power just to get through that, but I think both of us and our wives
really thought that Alex, you know, it was really a battle for Alex and we were actually
barracking for Alex; sorry Pete.

Q. When Paul Haarhuis was in earlier, he rather kind of questioned whether Sampras is
in good a shape as he might be. Is that something a lot of tennis players do? Do they kind
of question if he is in the fittest guy around?

TODD WOODBRIDGE: I don't know whether they have spoken about it much. This year that
has been looks like it has been a concern a couple of times to him that he has got to the
latter stages and had some tough matches and got a little bit tired, so that is an area he
has got to work on because it has happened, you know, a few times this year.
MARK WOODFORDE: I think some of those guys are, you know, not as fit as what probably
you or I may think they are. Becker and Ivanisevic and Pete, they play sometimes in the
heat of the day and if they play a tough opponent who is playing well, returning their
serves, you know, they are the ones that are sort of running out of gas and yet with that
big serve they are able to just finish the point so much quicker than say, perhaps someone
like Todd or I. We don't have a huge explosive serve. We have to work for every service
game. They sort of - sometimes they can breeze through a whole set without even a breaking
a sweat on holding serve and yet they just have to work on breaking serve, so that, you
know, it is just interesting to point out that sometimes they are not quite as fit as
perhaps some of the other guys.

Q. We asked Mark about this yesterday. What kind of strain did it put on the
partnership when you guys had to play each other in Toronto?

TODD WOODBRIDGE: We have done that quite a few times and it is just one of those things
we always say we don't really cherish it very much, not one of the things that we have to
do, but we both are pretty professional and we both have a lot of - set our goals high. We
both want to do well in our singles, so, when we get out there, we both want to win and we
both play to win, so, you know, we both -- maybe for a little while - after not so happy
with each other, but it only takes an hour or so, it is, can't do much about it once it is
done.

Q. Years ago I believe it was 1988 you beat John McEnroe in an evening match. How
important was that for you to play before a big crowd here at the U.S. Open and has that
helped you and your career and do you still have any recollection of that?

MARK WOODFORDE: Yeah, I remember it very fondly and it was important at that time for
me because I was still, you know, trying to break in on the Tour making a name for myself,
and beating someone like McEnroe, a hometown boy, at the U.S. Open, a lot of focus on him
doing well, he was in the midst of a comeback and, you know, he had high hopes of getting
back to the top 10 at that time and, so, I think even now people, you know, on the street
or they remember me from playing against him and playing with him. I was able to come back
the next year and win the doubles with him and, you know, that was a huge help. That is
probably why I am sitting here today as being able to learn how to play in big matches
against someone like McEnroe in big crowds and I have learned a lot from it by playing a
few tournaments with him which is why I am sitting here because I have got it up here in
my head.

Q. After Philippoussis hit you with that overhead the other day, I wondered if it
occurred to you a little higher, my God I would be lucky to walk around?

MARK WOODFORDE: He hit Todd at Wimbledon right in the head as well. He is lucky to have
an eye.

Q. Do you think he did it on purpose?

TODD WOODBRIDGE: It takes an all mighty swing. Sometimes you have got to duck and it
will hit the backdrop. You have just got to get out of the way quick enough.

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT