XXVI OLYMPIC GAMES
July 29, 1996
Todd Woodbridge
Mark Woodforde
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Final more convincing than you thought it was going to be?

TODD WOODBRIDGE:   You want to talk?  Yeah, we played -- both of us played a lot better, a lot sharper today.  I think we knew we've got to start stepping up a little bit and improving our play, and I think we're both pretty pleased, we're both a lot sharper, so that's a good sign.


Q. How do you feel now that you're actually in a position where if you keep on playing well that you can get medals, both of you?

TODD WOODBRIDGE:   Well, this is the position that we like to be in, that we generally in the time of play have played well once we get into the tournaments.  We struggle a little bit the first and second rounds, and if we can get deeper, that's where we tend to play better.  So it's just like any other tournament now where we just keep trying to improve that bit by bit.  And, you know, we're into the semis, so that's the place where, you know, we get to the final now and worry about everything else after the conclusion of the match. 


Q. What about the possibility of next round opponents, any thoughts on them?

MARK WOODFORDE:   Either of them, doesn't matter who it is, it's going to be a tough match.  We're going to have to play like we did today, maybe even just a tad sharper.  I think we've got a day off tomorrow and, you know, just try and rest up and focus in on what we're going to do against these guys.  We never played Ellis and Wayne together as a pair, but we've played them individually, and we know what they can do.  And Jacco and Paul, I guess they're trying to resurrect themselves after Jacco coming back from injury.  So in a sense it would be nice to play Jacco and Paul, because we feel that for the past two, three years them and us have been, you know, the top two doubles teams by a way.  So it would be nice to sort of playoff and -- but hopefully, you know, not see us lose.


Q. Granted, Wimbledon is both two each, you're playing every match the best of five sets, but if you had to compare your form at this level, this tournament, to Wimbledon, what would you say?

TODD WOODBRIDGE:   Today's match was a good match, you know, that's the standard I think that we played probably throughout Wimbledon.  And I don't think we overdid anything. We still had some parts we can get a fraction better today. But the standard was a lot higher than the other two matches,  and I think we had a better feel out in the court with our returns and we served better today, and so I think we, you know, we're starting to get to the way we played there.


Q. Perhaps I could ask you both a cultural question, nothing to do with the match today. Stone Mountain is a historic place here in Atlanta; the carving on the mountain of the confederate heroes.  I'm wondering, number one, if you've seen the carving, and if so, what you know about the history of those men on the side.

TODD WOODBRIDGE:   I saw the carving because the bus got lost for a tour around there.

MARK WOODFORDE:   And we see it when the transmission ends of all the sports and that, they show Stone Mountain, so...


Q. Do you know anything about the history of it?

TODD WOODBRIDGE:   No.

MARK WOODFORDE:   No.  Should we?


Q. I don't know.  You guys travel the world, you see all the historical places.  Do you ever go out or is it just a matter of going to tournaments or restaurants back at the hotel and just --

MARK WOODFORDE:   I think something like this, being the Olympics, you know, it's very special.  It's only the second time around, and you'd like to do real well, so it's  hard to go out; especially if Todd has been playing singles and doubles and hasn't had a lot of time in amongst the other stuff that's been going on, you know, to go out and really, you know, seek out, you know, sites like Stone Mountain.  So I think, you know, people that -- tennis players, if they do go out, it's because they've got a lot of time; they've obviously lost early, so they can go out and do that.  So I think we're sort of just trying to --


Q. Not lose early?

MARK WOODFORDE:   Well, not lose early, but get amongst the feel of being in the Olympics and enjoying the history of that aspect rather than going up Stone Mountain.


Q. Sure.  Thank you.

TODD WOODBRIDGE:   Usually I do like to go out and find out that type of stuff.


Q. You saw the carving.  What did you think?

TODD WOODBRIDGE:   Yeah, it was beautiful, great. Generally, I would like to do something like that with my wife, because she travels a lot.  And we try and find things to do together, and that would be something we would normally try to do. It's been harder here to get around.


Q. Do you guys look at what goes on here this week and sort of imagine the various problems and the good things that have happened in this Olympics and sort of imagine how Sydney  is going to deal with this and deal with that?  Do you sort of project forward on how the Olympics are going to be?

MARK WOODFORDE:   I think that's the beauty of it, happening once every four years, it gives you a lot of time to improve on certain conditions.  And our team manager, who's just joined the conference over there, is eager to speak to us every day to find out from our perspective what Sydney can improve on.  There's not a whole lot wrong with this facility at all, you know, it's just minor things.


Q. Not just tennis, but I mean the whole scheme of things.

MARK WOODFORDE:   Yeah, well, that's why the Sydney games sent over, you know, a whole heap of people to check all the sites out and try and improve.  Obviously it hasn't been down to Australia, the Olympics games, since '56, so it would be just fantastic if we could have a great two weeks of Olympics games without too many problems going on.


Q. Todd, what's your take on that?

TODD WOODBRIDGE:   Unfortunately, I'm only going to comment about my performance.  I'm not commenting about anything else.


Q. Well --

TODD WOODBRIDGE:   Unfortunately.  I would like to comment, but I won't.  I'll just step away from that.


Q. The Americans are eliminated here.  I know that  doubles players always look for the opportunity to be in the spotlight, and it's a rare opportunity.  Any disappointment that those very high profile and moderate tennis team is not ahead of you coming up?

TODD WOODBRIDGE:   Possibly, because I think we would have a good chance -- well, we would have been favored to win against them.  But perhaps -- you know, maybe people that actually got to watch would understand that they're skills at that level in that particular aspect of the game are not as good as what they have in the singles.  And, you know, they can improve on that part of their tennis game, because tennis contains singles, doubles and at times even mixed doubles, and they're all very different and take a lot of different types of skill.


Q. So is that a yes?  I mean, is that disappointed that you're not going to be able to display that?

MARK WOODFORDE:   We're displaying it.

TODD WOODBRIDGE:   Somewhat, because, I mean, if you go out and you make Agassi look a little bit silly with a few volleys and different aspects that he's not comfortable in playing his match, then I guess that would make us look good, so...


Q. Yeah.  I was thinking not so much in beating them, which obviously you should be able to do, but the fact that because they're Americans and we're in America, I guess the  place would be full and you'd get the big stage?

TODD WOODBRIDGE:  That would be somewhat true.

MARK WOODFORDE:   There's a big stage, though, we'd be play on when we get to the gold medal round.


Q. Yeah, I know.  But there would be a lot more attention if you'd be playing Agassi and Washington.

TODD WOODBRIDGE:   Sure.

MARK WOODFORDE:   Yeah.


Q. Don't you think it would be an ideal final if you play against the two Ferreiras perhaps; seeing the history about the countries not in the --

MARK WOODFORDE:   Unfortunately maybe we have to play them in the semi if they end up winning, so I guess we don't really look at it about the history of playing different opponents.  It's sort of more or less we want to kill the guys at the other and seek some glory and some fame ourselves.  It would be nice to publicize the two Ferreiras and Woodies playing against each other and South Africa and Australia sort of being young in terms of games and so on.

TODD WOODBRIDGE:   I think our top of the draw looks loaded too in comparison to -- you could probably get gold, silver and bronze out of our half right now.


Q. You are playing in the tougher end of it, right?

MARK WOODFORDE:   Yeah.  And there are more established doubles players up in the top half.  Agassi and  Washington are thrown together for the sake of putting in an American team, so...


Q. Heat been a problem?

TODD WOODBRIDGE:  The last few days obviously have been with a bit of rain, been quite nice.

MARK WOODFORDE:   Expected it to be quite worse, but it's been quite pleasant.

TODD WOODBRIDGE:   I think the pre tournament here was where it was pretty hot, the first few days of the game.


Q. Is this kind of new to play with somebody holding an am umbrella on you during the change?

TODD WOODBRIDGE:   No.

MARK WOODFORDE:   We get used to it.  Gets us ready for the next couple of weeks in Cincinnati and Indianapolis; going to play in heat there.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT