THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 25, 1995
Todd Woodbridge
Mark Woodforde
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 GREG SHARKO:  They are the first Aussie team to win the Lipton
title here.  I think there has been an Aussie maybe Fitzy might
have won it here once, but ever and all-Aussie team.

 Q.  Did you play McEnroe and Grabb in that first incarnation
when they were winning back then?  I mean, they had a good run;
didn't they.

 MARK WOODFORDE:  No, we hadn't even thought of playing together
back then.

 Q.  Is it that long ago?

 MARK WOODFORDE:  That was like '86.

 TODD WOODBRIDGE:  They won the French in '88.

 GREG SHARKO:  '89.

 MARK WOODFORDE:  '89.

 TODD WOODBRIDGE:  We didn't play until '90.

 MARK WOODFORDE:  '91, we started.

 Q.  Did you start as late as that?  You are youngsters, yeah.
 So, okay, so you didn't see them then?  Tell us a bit about the
match; how did it go?  Did you have a strategy, plan, try to do
something --

 TODD WOODBRIDGE:  I think we both understand or know how well
those guys play and how they like to play against us, but the
conditions were difficult with the breeze; it was hard to get
your timing on the serve and also it was really moving it around
trying to return and I think, you know, we were very solid, you
know, with our serve percentage and we made more returns than
what they did.  That was sort of what you had to try to be today,
was play good solid doubles because the wind wasn't allowing anything
special.  In some ways, it probably helped too because it nullified
Jim's serve a little bit because he often serves particularly
well.  You never get a chance and we are having a good feel on
both ends of the court to get a chance to break.

 GREG SHARKO:  Must be nice to get this big championship under
your belts now?

 MARK WOODFORDE:  It is one of the big ones that we haven't actually
won.  We have won a few of the bigger ones on the Tour and we
have never really -- we haven't played it all that often.

 TODD WOODBRIDGE:  Only second time.

 MARK WOODFORDE:  Last year we didn't -- we had a really bad tournament
and I think we were both struggling; whether we didn't know where
we wanted to go.  We lacked, I guess, horizon, and, you know,
so you know, it is really nice to come back after, you know, some
down parts of last year and I think this year, we have been very
solid.  The Australian Open was our first early exit.  The rest
have been all semifinals; a tournament win and now this tournament
win.  I mean, I think that is what we are shooting for.  We have
won a few tournaments.  We would like to keep winning the bigger
ones.  If we are going to be remembered, you have got to win those
big ones.  There is still a couple of other Grand Slams that we
haven't yet to secure, so along with this one, those are the ones
that we really would like to serve and stake out.

 Q.  Which Slams are you missing?

 MARK WOODFORDE:  French and --

 TODD WOODBRIDGE:  U.S. Open.

 Q.  Where are you heading?  Do you make your schedules together,
I mean, are you always at the same tournaments?

 TODD WOODBRIDGE:  No.  We don't deliberately do it.  We sort
of set out our singles first to try and work that out and then
make sure we get in a certain amount of tournaments to lead up
-- well, for a major tournament and we go our separate ways for
a few weeks.  I think Mark is playing Monte Carlo and I start
off in Atlanta, I got five weeks off now.

 Q.  I guess a prize packet of this size comes at a good time
for you.

 TODD WOODBRIDGE:  It will pay the few bills - pay the wedding
bills.  Going on a nice honeymoon now, so it feels good, actually,
to go off and have a break because I worked very hard this part
of the year.  I have played 11 out of 12 weeks or 10 out of 11
weeks for the reason that, you know, I was getting married and
I am planning my schedule that way so I can take a honeymoon and
couple of weeks off, so I am pleased with the way it went down
I worked very hard.  I feel I deserve to get a good break and
get back into the big tournaments in May, June and June.

 GREG SHARKO:  What is the date of your wedding?

 TODD WOODBRIDGE:  8th of April.

 GREG SHARKO:  One other note, they are now 24 and 4, lifetime,
in finals.

 Q.  This is a nice finish to what has been a pretty good tournament
for the Australians?

 MARK WOODFORDE:  Probably back home most of the other press that
don't make their way over here and they get everything secondhand,
Australia had left the tournament without, I guess, a win in any
event; then they think it is a failure.  I think it has been quite
a revelation for the whole group of Australians.  Not only it
is good to see not just guys like us, but some of the younger
ones, Tebbutt and Kilderry start to pick their journey up that
golden path as long as it stays golden for them, and yeah, so,
you know, I mean, we have been winning, you know, tournaments
for a few years now and, you know, sometimes the singles guys,
either of us haven't really done much in singles, if we have,
you know, you beat one good player; then you lose in the next
round and so it is good to see there are a whole bunch of players,
you know, putting out and getting the results and there is still
a long, long year ahead and, you know, we have still got to keep
putting out those results; not just Todd and I winning events
like this, but those younger guys learning to play in big events
like this one.  I mean, that is what it is all about.

 GREG SHARKO:  Okay.

 End of FastScripts..... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT