U.S. OPEN
September 4, 1994
Todd Woodbridge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Todd, obviously it's extremely disappointing when you think about it; what are your
thoughts? What can you say? 

TODD WOODBRIDGE: Well, I didn't really lose the match. The score line showed that I
lost the match. I did nothing wrong to lose the match from being ahead. Not much I can do
about it. He hit two great returns on match point and unreturnable serve; an ace and a
winner to get out of the tiebreak; then he lifted himself and tiebreaker, in the fifth, so
you know, I really I didn't-- I didn't play badly, I didn't do anything wrong, so I am
very happy with the way I played. 

Q. What was going through your mind when you were holding those two match points in the
third? 

TODD WOODBRIDGE: I thought I serve, volleyed well the whole match on big points. That
is what I was going to try again. Put a real good serve in, 109 on the clock. I volleyed
it around my shoes. He put it right around my shoes; came back twice as fast. As I said,
if I was to go back and do it again, I would probably do the same thing again, and you
know, the result probably will be eight out of ten would have gone my way if I would have
put a good serve in like I did. 

Q. At 2 sets to Love up, do you think that were you not looking -- your were keeping
your mind focused; not looking ahead? 

TODD WOODBRIDGE: No, I don't think I have looked ahead once. I felt like he started
playing a little bit better and he -- next set, once he won that set, he played better
again, and he changed his game too. He started to come in and he started to slice, which
he actually sliced really well. Had a lot on it, quite hard, and he changed his game and
worked himself into the match. 

Q. I am sorry, I missed the match. It sounded really good out there on 17. Was the wind
as tricky as it was in some of these other. . . 

TODD WOODBRIDGE: It was windy and quite breezy. It is probably not as bad as it is in
these two courts here because they have the circling effect with the stadium. We had -- it
was quite strong, but blowing sort of one way all the time; didn't have to worry about the
swirling effect. 

Q. Crosscourt? 

TODD WOODBRIDGE: Sort of cross down-court. 

Q. I am curious as to how you handle it on a day like this particularly services toss? 

TODD WOODBRIDGE: I served well and he served well, something neither of us had a lot of
trouble with. So I think we both handled the wind pretty well. Had a good standing over
the match. It wasn't a lot of errors and things like that. It was good tennis. 

Q. Did you have to adjust to the wind on your toss? 

TODD WOODBRIDGE: Yeah, everybody does. You got to change from end-to-end quite often.
You are serving downwind and into the wind; you got to put the ball in a different
position above your head to get more on. 

Q. When it's windy do you have to make it a shorter toss? 

TODD WOODBRIDGE: Not if you got a good serve, no. 

Q. Todd, three Australians have lost here after leading two sets to Love. Have you got
a thought on that? 

TODD WOODBRIDGE: Well, I didn't see the other guy's matches. From what I heard, they
felt that they didn't play as well when they led 2-Love. They let hit slip a bit. Today I
don't think I did that. So it is just tennis, you know, it is one of those things. 

Q. Did your two matchpoints come consecutively? 

TODD WOODBRIDGE: 6-4 in the third set tiebreak, my serve at 6-4. 

Q. You have related what happened on the first. You'd hit a 109 mile an hour serve; guy
hit it right at at your shoes? 

TODD WOODBRIDGE: Served out wide to my backhand. 

Q. He hit a winner -- oh, his serve? 

TODD WOODBRIDGE: He served; just get my racket on it; then he served an ace; then
another clean winner off a first serve. 

Q. Especially seemed like a lot of times when you'd go to net he was unbelievable at
passing you, those little kind of drop -- almost drop shot passing shots? 

TODD WOODBRIDGE: Him? 

Q. When you were at the net. 

TODD WOODBRIDGE: Well, I mean, he made a few, I don't know what the stats were. I felt
like I did well today. He made a few good ones off second serves where he just powered
them and passed me, but you know, that is his strength, basically. That is where he plays
his best when he gets those. 

Q. Todd, hopefully this could be a turnaround for you with your singles. Views on that?


TODD WOODBRIDGE: Well, I think I played the best that I have played today than what I
have played since I was 30 in the world, so for me it's a great sign. And, you know, we
have already-- I have talked in the locker room with my coach and he said "whatever
you do, don't go home and get too disappointed because it was the best I have seen you
play in two years," so I have got to try and take that on and come back tomorrow and
I am still in two other events and play with as good an attitude as I played today and
then I will get back to 30; then if I get to there, then I will try to get better. 

Q. Would winning the doubles here be compensation for you today? 

TODD WOODBRIDGE: Well, I think that is another event. We always try to do as well as we
can. To get to the 16th here coming from a qualifier would have been a big thrill and a
great effort. But still, I have still done well and had a good tournament. If someone
would have said when I was at the first round quallies that I would have lost 7-6 in the
fifth third round, I probably would have laughed. 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT