U.S. OPEN
September 2, 1994
Todd Woodbridge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How do you assess your game? I'm sorry, I didn't see it either. 

TODD WOODBRIDGE: Well, I won it straight, three, two and four. You know, I haven't
played very well in singles for quite a while now, so for me, I got through qualies, I've
had a reasonable draw and made the most of it, and won two matches in straight sets
comfortably. And I'm very happy with the way I'm playing. 

Q. Even though you went through the qualies and got some fairly easy victories, are you
getting tired? 

TODD WOODBRIDGE: No, I feel like I've worked hard. I played -- I've worked hard during
the summer to try to play well here, and I've had pretty easy matches. Plenty of rest so
far, even though I've played doubles, so far, I've still managed to get home early each
day and I've been hanging around here and I feel comfortable with everything. 

Q. You are one of the young players that a couple years ago had help from Tennis
Australia? 

TODD WOODBRIDGE: Uh-hum. 

Q. How do you feel now with the new guys like Rafter coming and playing really good
tennis, do you feel like they will to go and do the same thing? 

TODD WOODBRIDGE: I think I'm very happy that we've had someone else come a long in some
ways. Pat has come up and played terrific tennis and in some ways taken a little pressure
off everyone because he's risen and had good results and all that sort of stuff and that's
given tennis in Australia a bit of a boost that we've needed. We have got a lot of real
good solid players in the top 50 with Stoltenberg-- Fromberg, we had Wally who's slipped a
bit, but Pat has really sort of come up and boosted the profile of tennis. And in
Australia we really really needed it. 

Q. Todd, would you describe yourself as a strict serve and volleyer or do you -- 

TODD WOODBRIDGE: No, I don't think I have the power or the height and sort of the body
strength to be able to do that all the time. I have to try to mix it and keep the guy
guessing and keep him thinking what I do on the court. 

Q. We were talking to Edberg just before that and he was making the comment that for
some reason there's fewer and fewer strict serve and volleyers out there; do you have any
-- 

TODD WOODBRIDGE: If I were some of these guys that serve 110, 120 all the time, I
wouldn't be hanging back, I'd be making the guy hit winners all the time if he was good
enough. Unfortunately, I don't have that serve and I'm not six foot three, so, I don't
think those guys play too smart at times. I think they really should work on there-- on
there tactic, really. 

Q. So that if you could serve it, then, by golly, you ought to be up there volleying. 

TODD WOODBRIDGE: I think for example, we have Patrick Rafter who we were just talking
about. He's the prime example of that. He's got a great serve and guy's hate playing him
because they know that he's going to have pressure on them all the time. 

Q. Pete Sampras over the year talked about Newcombe and Laver and guys like that; what
do those guys mean to you? 

TODD WOODBRIDGE: Well, for me Ken Rosewell was my idol growing up and he still is. I've
gotten to know him and he's so down to earth it's incredible, to someone who's done so
much, but they're all very helpful and supportive of us as players, but they come out, I
played in Cincinnati and Laver was out in all my matches. He even watched my quali match
there and I find that impressive amongst those players. They're champions and they still
have the love of the game and the desire to see us do well in Australia and come out and
watch us and that's very important. 

Q. As legendary as those guys are, are they patient with your countryman's struggles? 

TODD WOODBRIDGE: I think so, because I think they're honest and they realize that
tennis has grown since they were at the top. You think, it is a worldwide sport, and in
those days it wasn't so much. There was a lot of countries that played winter sport,
summer sport and now it's a twelve month a year thing. 

Q. Back to the style thing, Todd, who would you say is the best serve and volleyer out
there? 

TODD WOODBRIDGE: I think Edberg still is. 

Q. And is it because of -- I mean, today his volleys were unbelievable -- 

TODD WOODBRIDGE: I think it's because of his movement. He does have exceptional
vollies, but he vollies that well because of the way he prepares for them. 

Q. And the other thing he was saying there seems to be more risk to play that kind of
game, maybe that's why guys don't play it? 

TODD WOODBRIDGE: I think so. There's definitely more risk, but at the same time, you're
taking it up to the guy and saying, well, if you're good enough and you can come up with
pinpoint accuracy and pass me all the time, well, then you're too good, and that's what
happens with Stefan and I think -- I don't know how many years has he been in the top
five. Doesn't seem to worry his game that much. 

Q. You wouldn't regard Sampras as a pure serve and volleyer? 

TODD WOODBRIDGE: No, but he has a great all-court game. He can do it if he wants to. 

Q. If you had his body would you serve and volley all the time. 

TODD WOODBRIDGE: I'd try. Especially on this court it's so quick. 

Q. Edberg has been overlooked quite a bit this week; do you think that's a mistake;
does he still have the game to win here? 

TODD WOODBRIDGE: I think he feels he does and he's had a reasonable summer. He played
well in Cincinnati, won Washington got matches behind him and it wouldn't surprise me if
he sneaks in the semis and finals and if the draw works his way he has the experience to
win the tournament. He's definitely fit enough and healthy enough and he's had good enough
preparation. 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT