adidas International
January 16, 2004
Todd Woodbridge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Forty-eight minutes and then you got booted off Centre Court.  I guess going from Centre to 2..?

TODD WOODBRIDGE:  Yeah, I mean, everyone knew that that was a possibility today before we even started at 11 o'clock, the way the weather was.  It's not the first time things like that have happened.  I've played semifinals at Wimbledon where I played half a match on Court 3 and finished it on Centre Court, half a match on Court 1, finished it on Court 2.  So, you know, when you get inclement weather like today, that's gonna happen.

Q.  Your thoughts on being one match away?  Nervous?

TODD WOODBRIDGE:  No, not really.  My attitude is  - which I took on last year when I didn't think it was looking like I was going to get to sort of even equalling the record  - was, you know, this let it happen.  And if it happens tomorrow, well, fantastic, and I'll play that way.  And if it doesn't, then I'll go on and continue to try to do it.  I'm pretty free and open to what, you know, comes at me. 

Q.  Wouldn't it be something special if it happened here, in the town you were born in?

TODD WOODBRIDGE:  Absolutely.  I mean, it would be a fantastic finale, scenario, script, whichever you'd like to call it.  I think to equal it in Sydney, where I was brought up, played all my tennis, learnt the game, and especially at a tournament like this, it has a huge history and a fantastic honor roll, I really would be very proud to knock it off here. 

Q.  What about playing the Bryan brothers?

TODD WOODBRIDGE:  Yeah, well, the thing about it is I'm gonna have to win it outright; it's not going to be something that's easy.  In some ways I wouldn't mind beating them.  I think it would be really good. 

Q.  Where would you place the 79 among your 8 Wimbledons and unbelievable Davis Cup record?

TODD WOODBRIDGE:  Well, it wouldn't rate towards any of those major championships for me, that's for sure.  However, it's been a goal that I set the last couple of years to try to achieve.  So, you know, I'm after that goal, I want to obtain it. 

Q.  It's been a couple of years, Todd.  Do you feel like you want to hurry up? 

TODD WOODBRIDGE:  I think if I got impatient, it would be tough to achieve it, yeah.  So in my own mind, whatever you want to call it  - mental strategy, psychology  - no, I'm just going about trying to play like I normally would. 

Q.  Is it tough to have a priority with your 15 Grand Slams compared to Davis Cup? 

TODD WOODBRIDGE:  They're all my priorities, really, those major championships.  Davis Cup is a major championship.  They're very different entities because tomorrow, if I win, it's a huge individual achievement; I've got a huge amount of satisfaction out of that.  But winning the Davis Cup, obviously, a few weeks back was a big kick for the nation.  It was amazing for me how many people actually have seen me in the streets, stopped me to congratulate me that I've never met in my life.  That's the type of thing that playing for your country does. 

Q.  Would you have one more Athens Olympics, then the Davis Cup again at the end of the year?

TODD WOODBRIDGE:  I hope so, yeah.

Q.  And then think about what you're going to do?

TODD WOODBRIDGE:  Well, if I was playing as well as I did at the end of this year  - so end of last year  - I'd probably continue.  Because while I can still win majors, I want to.  I've said, you're a long time retired.  If I could still win them, it would be stupid to walk away from it.  I'm only 32, still pretty young as life goes, and I've got a lot of time to go and do other things.

Q.  Is it just the two highest individually-ranked doubles players that go through that?

TODD WOODBRIDGE:  It's a little bit of a hairy question, that one.  There is a criteria that the ATP have in place that if you're ranked inside the Top 10 individually, you have to be able to represent your country; it's an automatic entry.  So if we had three guys in, we would actually be allowed two times, if you follow.  So in that case, do you separate Arthurs and Hanley, who play together?  That's a question that I think we have to wait until the actual deadline.  Because if they did play together, then I'd be looking probably like Mark Philippoussis or Lleyton if he changed his mind.  That would be my option. 

Q.  When is the deadline for that?

TODD WOODBRIDGE:  I think it's the week after the French Open. 

Q.  You and Todd have a restaurant booked somewhere for tomorrow?

TODD WOODBRIDGE:  Jonas (smiling).  No, don't do anything like that.  You don't change the karma.  I get a little superstitious, I try to avoid it.  But, no, I would never do that.

Q.  You think it's worth a celebration or..?

TODD WOODBRIDGE:  Oh, it will be.  If we do, it will be, yeah.  One thing, like winning a lot of Wimbledons, you've got a Champions Dinner and black tie.  I've never taken my suit to the tournament; I'll always borrow one (laughing). 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT