ING NEW YORK CITY MARATHON
November 7, 2004
Susan Chepkemel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  You were smiling and laughing as you crossed the finish line, what were you smiling and laughing about? 

SUSAN CHEPKEMEI: Well, because of my results, that's why I smiled.  I was happy what I did today.  


Q.  Was there ever a point in the last mile where you thought you could overtake her and win the race?  You had raced her many times, but did you think you had a little more speed at the end? 

SUSAN CHEPKEMEI: Well, it's such a lengthy question, but of course, it was in my mind that I could win the race.  But, you know, I could not make it in the end because Paula, she was a little bit stronger.  


Q.  Was there a point where you thought you could leave her?  It seemed like in the last couple of miles, you each made a move to pass the other.  Was that your strategy to stay with her or did you think you would pass her at any point? 

SUSAN CHEPKEMEI: You know, past the -- I couldn't feel my body, really.  


Q.  And it was hurting? 

SUSAN CHEPKEMEI: Yeah.  (Smiling). 


Q.  What's the last time that you've been in such a close finish? 

SUSAN CHEPKEMEI: 2001, but I was second.  


Q.  And what race was that? 

SUSAN CHEPKEMEI: It was here in New York Marathon.  


Q.  People were talking so much about Paula and Margaret Okayo and Lornah before the race, they didn't really mention you as a contender as much.  Are you aware when people are not playing up your chances so much? 

SUSAN CHEPKEMEI: Well, it's a little bit challenging.  I was concentrating for the race, and, well, because you know like Margaret, she was the winner for last year.  That's why they forecast for her.   For me, I didn't have any pressure, because like I was in good shape and I was concentrating for my race, and to think good things for the race, like "I'm going to win the race today."  But I'm happy for what I did. 


Q.  Did you do a lot of your preparation in Holland? 

SUSAN CHEPKEMEI: No, I did my preparation in Kenya. 


Q.  What distance have you been successful against Paula? 

SUSAN CHEPKEMEI: Well, I have been running against Paula in several races, and you know, we are good friends, with Paula, and during the race there's no friends.  But after we are good friends.  I remember a Half-Marathon but I could not catch her because she was too fast for me.  


Q.  It seemed like during the race you tried to break away from her on several occasions and she tried to, was that true or not?

SUSAN CHEPKEMEI: Well, I was trying all my ways, if I could break away from her, but I could not.  


Q.  You had the shin injury and the foot, the stress fracture, right, earlier in the year; did you feel 100% coming into this race? 

SUSAN CHEPKEMEI: Well, it was real frustrating with my hip injury.  But after that, I came to some -- in U.S. and I won and I believe in myself that I'm back.  I went back to Kenya to prepare for this marathon.  I always believe for myself when I come for a marathon, I come very strong.  


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT