U.S. WOMEN'S MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 14, 2016
Patricia Schremmer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. A chip-in to win in the morning?
PATRICIA SCHREMMER: Well, it was a putt.
Q. It was a putt?  Everyone told me it was a chip.  Off the green?
PATRICIA SCHREMMER: I putted it, yeah.  It was just off the fringe.
Q. Fair enough.  Great moment to end the morning match.  Were you feeling some adrenaline coming into the afternoon?
PATRICIA SCHREMMER: No, I was feeling confident.  I hit the ball really well the last 14 holes in the morning round, and putting, I kind of was getting the hang of the greens.  No, and I had a really nice match this afternoon with Julia.  I just got behind and I didn't recover.  I didn't get any real good -- I didn't hit it great, and I needed to just make par at least, and I started to make a couple bogeys.  But I'm not disappointed.  Congratulations to Julia, who played really nicely and steady.  So many things went my way this week that I have nothing to complain about.
Q. Match was pretty tight until the last few holes.
PATRICIA SCHREMMER: Yes.
Q. Did something change?  Did you just start to get a little bit tired, just a couple bad shots?
PATRICIA SCHREMMER: No, just some bad shots.  I missed the fairways on -- I'm trying to remember where I started really going down.  Like 10, that was a tough -- that was a dumb fairway to miss, so I lost 10.  She had also an errant drive but she recovered better than I did.  So my short game, a couple holes where I usually have a really solid short game kind of failed me.  I don't know, I just missed the fairways, and it's hard to make par.  Then you're always behind the line.  Anyway, it's okay.
Q. People talk about the advantage that youth brings in this championship, but you were right up there throughout.  Do you feel like that's an advantage?  Do you feel like experience is an advantage in this championship?
PATRICIA SCHREMMER: Gosh, I don't know.  I think it could go both ways.  I've been very fortunate to remain healthy this long physically.  I stay in pretty good shape.  I don't really have at the moment any joint problems or tennis elbow or anything, which I had been experiencing a year or so ago.  Yeah, the age thing probably -- sure, it's a benefit to be 25, but I'm not, so I don't even think about it.
Q. On No. 15, I guess you holed out off the green with a putt on 15.  Were you thinking about with that shot, that's a difficult pitch shot you had off the green on 15.  Were you thinking I pretty much have to make it or get it close?
PATRICIA SCHREMMER: Absolutely, yeah, I was trying to make it, so I flew it past the hole six inches, almost made it.  But yeah, I wasn't planning on flying it in, but that was -- I mean, I short-sided myself.  That was just dumb play off the tee.  But I just pushed it.  It wasn't that bad.
Q. Finally, what do you take out of today?  You beat a four-time champion in the morning and you went toe to toe for a good chunk of time with the 2013 champion.  Does that give you more confidence in your game going forward?
PATRICIA SCHREMMER: Well, I would say that ignorance is bliss because I had no idea they had those kind of playing records.  I don't know the girls out here.  It's my first Mid-Am.  I've been so out of golf as far as competition.  I really am just a surf taxi for my children, so congratulations to those girls.  That's really an incredible accomplishment, but I guess no disrespect, but I didn't know that.
Q. Until just -- wow, okay.
PATRICIA SCHREMMER: Yeah, so good, that's awesome.
Q. It's the third time in four years Julia has --
PATRICIA SCHREMMER: Wow, I didn't know that.  I'm just thrilled.  Actually yesterday they told me that I made the round of 8 that I would get a spot for the 2017 championship, and I was like, wow, that's awesome.  I didn't know that, either.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT