JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
August 11, 2016
Scott Pinckney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  While that is the tale of two nines.  Great way to turn it around.  What kicked in at 11 for you?  
SCOTT PINCKNEY: Well, actually started on 10.  I had 269 front and made a bad decision to go for it.  It was just a stupid play, pulled it left, and in the long stuff, and ended up making bogey when it's an easy lay-up and you have a little wedge in.  I walked off that tee just absolutely pissed.  It just kind of gave me that extra focus to kind of get it back, and I started to hit some shots and some putts started to fall, so it actually started with a mistake, which is sometimes -- it is what it is.   
 Q.  After a round like that where it is two very different nines, does that change the way you work towards your second round?  Normally you might go out and work on some things.  Did it all of a sudden start to click and you just carry it forward?  
SCOTT PINCKNEY: Honestly, I played good on both sides, but the putts started to drop, and I put it a little bit closer on the back side, so it wasn't like all of a sudden I'm hitting it good.  I hit it good on the front side, I just actually capitalized on the opportunities.   
 Q.  Talk about that front nine, back nine difference for you.  
SCOTT PINCKNEY: Well, like I said, I started on hole 10.  I played solid on the front side.  I didn't capitalize as much as I'd like, and I didn't get up-and-down on one hole, made a bogey.  But on 10 I decided to go for it.  Stupid play.  I ended up pulling it because the water is right and ended up making bogey when I should have a 10-footer for birdie at worst if I lay up.  So that actually kind of lit me, got a little pissed from that, and I kicked it into gear and I started making some putts.  I don't know if it gave me a little bit of focus on the greens, just a little more motivation, but they started to fall and I capitalized.   
 Q.  You were in the middle of that run when the rain hit.  How did you come back out and keep it going and have a strong finish?  
SCOTT PINCKNEY: Well, I hit a good drive on 15 and then they called it.  15 is a tough hole.  You're just looking to make par.  I hit a good second shot.  I pulled it just a little bit, and then the wind kind of came up.  It took a shot or two and about a putt to kind of get used to the conditions because it's so much softer.  It's a lot cooler is the ball is not going as far with the humidity.  Actually hit it just over the bunker and I chipped it in.  That was a slow start but then I kept it going.   
 Q.  To be one off the pace, how satisfied are you?  
SCOTT PINCKNEY: I mean, good.  It's always a good first round to be pretty close to the lead.   
 Q.  Was there a big difference in the play?  Were the greens slower?  Were the fairways --  
SCOTT PINCKNEY: The ball started to not travel nearly as much when we came back after the storm because of humidity, and then the greens were a lot slower.  I'm curious to see how the scores are going to be because I got a little mud ball on 18, which almost cost me a penalty shot by going in the water.  But it's going to be interesting for the guys in the afternoon.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT