JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 10, 2015
Scott Pinckney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: Okay, jump right in.  Scott Pinckney, thanks for joining us.  Another successful 5-under 66 for the second day in row that puts you at 10-under. Just a couple comments on what seems to be going right so far through two rounds.   SCOTT PINCKNEY: Keeping it in fairway, at least trying to, and just giving myself some good opportunities.  These greens are in such good shape and I'm rolling the ball really well, and that's all I'm trying to do is just give myself a good look at it.   THE MODERATOR: Okay.  How key was that 9th hole, the finish the way you did?   SCOTT PINCKNEY: It's a bonus.  It's a hard hole.  I hit a 4-iron in there, so I was looking to make par.  But I put it in a good spot.  Hit it exactly where I wanted to.  I was just trying to cosy it down there and it happened to go in. So that was a nice bonus to finish the round, especially with how I came in that front nine.   THE MODERATOR: Questions.   Q.  If you were writing a guidebook on how to play this course, seems like you've got it.  Hit the fairways, make the putts...  SCOTT PINCKNEY: Yeah.  You have to hit the fairways.  I missed a couple on my front side today, and it's just very difficult to get it close to the hole, especially with so many undulations around these greens.  You have to avoid them, and hitting from the rough makes that pretty difficult. Giving yourself an opportunity from the fairway is the first key.   Q.  You played the Challenge Tour over in Europe, correct?  SCOTT PINCKNEY: Yeah, yeah.   Q.  Talk about that experience and how that prepared you for this year playing on this tour.  SCOTT PINCKNEY: It was really cool.  I got my European Tour card my first go when I first toured pro.  I played a couple European Tour events and didn't do as well as I would've liked, and managed to get my way back to Challenge Tour. Played Challenge Tour over there.  It was a good time.  It was fun.  There was a lot of ups and downs, but I was with International Sports Management at the time and they're based over there, so I was able to travel with some of their guys which made it very easy. Coming from Arizona State, there were a lot of Europeans on my team.  Every event I played in I had a college teammate, which made a huge difference.  Huge difference.  So that was fun.   Q.  Luke struggled down the stretch.  When you see that happening, how important is it for you to block all that out?  SCOTT PINCKNEY: I mean, yeah, you got to.  It was tough so see how he finished, but he's still in great shape.  With how hard nine is, I was just trying to get it in the fairway and hit the green and take my par. He happened to hit after me, so I didn't see his shot before I hit mine, which was nice, because I was just focused on hitting the fairway.  That's all you got to do.   Q.  (Regarding No. 9 hole.)  SCOTT PINCKNEY: Yeah.   Q.  How much does that give you momentum going into the weekend?  SCOTT PINCKNEY: I hope a little bit.  It's just the whole front nine will give me some minimum, not just that hole.  With how I played and the putts I made, it will give me momentum.   Q.  Talk about your relationship with Rory.  SCOTT PINCKNEY: I played the Doral Junior Publix when I was 10, 11, 12, or maybe 11, 12, and we became good friends there with his family.  We had a great time there.  Rory won it one year and I took second. We just developed a relationship from there.  His parents wanted Rory to come over and play some golf in the States, and shipped him over.  He stayed with me for a whole summer.  We've just been good buddies since then. Once he went home he obviously had some good success, and I happened to meet up with him back at the 2011 US Open where he won.  I qualified for that as an amateur and then I turned pro after that. Went over when he was with ISM and played over there with him.   Q.  (No microphone.)  SCOTT PINCKNEY: I did, because it was a cool thing when we were younger I was the (indiscernible) one.  (Laughter.)   Q.  So far this week we got a bunch of young guys, a new guard.  It's an exciting time to be on the PGA TOUR.  SCOTT PINCKNEY: It's very special.  I think it's really cool.  I mean, the young guys, they're so good, and I think it's been -- we've had a lot of success this year, especially from the class that came in from Web.com Tour.  They all hit it so long and are such good players. I mean, I've heard a lot of veterans say this was the hardest year by far to keep your card because of guys like Justin Thomas, me, Patrick Rogers, Tony Finau, all just having some good success.   Q.  (No microphone.)  SCOTT PINCKNEY: Hasn't crossed my mind yet.  Hopefully not any time soon.  I'm 26 and Jordan Spieth is 21.  That's blows my mind.  I still feel like I'm 21.  (Laughter.)   THE MODERATOR: All right, Scott, congratulations on a great start to the week, and hope to see back in here tomorrow.   SCOTT PINCKNEY: Thanks.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT