HUMANA CHALLENGE IN PARTNERSHIP WITH THE CLINTON FOUNDATION
January 22, 2015
Scott Pinckney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Anything in particular felt good today?   When you were warming up did you have a feeling that had you a 64 in you?
SCOTT PINCKNEY:   No, warm‑up was good, but I just played good today.   I didn't really make too many mistakes and I capitalized when I needed to.

Q.   A lot of birdies, couple of different birdie trains that you got on, only the one bogey and even chipped it in on 18.   So a little bit of magic all the way around today?
SCOTT PINCKNEY:   Those are always nice to catch the birdie trains, but I started off 1‑over and then caught a train to get back to 2‑under and just kept grinding.   There is some tee shots where you just need to put it in play and if you hit a good second shot, you can score.

Q.   As far as the conditions go, I guess you couldn't have asked for much more than this?
SCOTT PINCKNEY:   They were awesome.   The practice round yesterday was complete opposite wind.   So we really had to focus on our lines off the tee and it was, conditions were great.   Greens were awesome.

Q.   Did you have any idea as you were playing how well you were playing?   Were you looking at the leaderboards they aren't out there much, did you have any clue.   You knew how well you were playing but maybe where the rest of the field might be?
SCOTT PINCKNEY:   I saw some score boards, but I was still trying to hit one shot at a time because I knew coming in I had two par‑5's and I didn't want to get ahead of myself and just wanted to execute golf shots.

Q.   You've been working with Steve Johnson on a number of different things, it seemed to at least for today paid off pretty well?
SCOTT PINCKNEY:   Yeah, working with Steve has really helped.   Ball striking was really great and working with Howard Twitty, short game coach, it was nice to see some putts roll in.

Q.   Going to go hit the range and hit a few more balls now?
SCOTT PINCKNEY:   Yeah.   Exactly.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT