TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 26, 2011
Eric Stephens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






 Q. Come away with something --
 ERIC STEPHENS: I don't think so, because I think a lot of the teams we play, we may be in some of the same situations. I think it was a good thing that it wasn't in-conference play. We have a lot more tougher opponents in conference. So I think it was a good thing to get that out of the way before it even started.

 Q. Do you feel more pressure with it being a conference game and knowing what's -- non-conference game?
 ERIC STEPHENS: Not really because the college level, non-conference level is just as important. You lose a game non-conference that can put you out of a Bowl game just as much as losing a game in conference. It's all the same. We just have to prepare and focus. 

 Q. Inaudible?
 ERIC STEPHENS: Our last game we showed a lot of pride in our ability to overcome, I think a lot of guys stepped up with Darren going down and we came together as an offense and a lot of guys showed that they are ready to play.

 Q. You guys talked about all year, doing what you do best, calling your game and running your offense, but do you kind of go back and look at what Georgia Tech did to Kansas, the run game, do you kind of lick your chops a little bit?
 ERIC STEPHENS: As a running back -- I have no choice to, but we are going to do whatever the situation calls for. I'm sure Coach Brown has already started game planning for that and no telling what he has in mind. So we'll just do whatever -- take whatever he's given us.

 Q. This team -- is that something you came in with or developed as you moved along or an overall mind-set?
 ERIC STEPHENS: I think a big part of it starts with the quarterback. Like I've been telling everyone, Douge is always calm. He's never in a panic mode or even seems like he's worried. He's always the same guy in the huddle -- well, we don't huddle much. But on the sidelines, he's always the same guy. He's always trying to motivate us and get us going. I think it just takes a toll on the rest of the guys, and I think it's been a great thing for us. 

 Q. What's the difference in the confidence in the running game this season? 
 ERIC STEPHENS: I just think it has a lot to do with us having an entire line back -- we are going to lose a couple of guys next year. But for us to have everyone back it helped us get off to a quicker start than what we did last year and the previous years before.

 Q. Is it tough as a player, the morning game? 
 ERIC STEPHENS: The tough thing about it is waking up, man, once you get up and get going, everything is fine. But to this point we have not had any -- just two morning games so, this will be our first one. It's not that big of a deal. You just have to get up and get ready to go. 

 Q. Inaudible. 
 ERIC STEPHENS: No, only a matter of time before he breaks them all. He's got a couple of years left here, he's a great player and he's tremendously fast. So I'll give him probably less time than it took me to break them before he breaks them (laughing). 

 Q. With the injury -- what effect does that have --
 ERIC STEPHENS: I mean, it's tough, when you lose any guys, but when you lose like key guys like for instance, our starting linemen or you lose Darren, I think for the most part we try to just move on. But then in the back of our heads we all know with Darren, it would be a lot easier if we had this guy or that guy. 
 But it's just about moving on. If a guy goes down, we can't let that determine the rest of our season, or for that matter, the rest of the game. We just have to continue what we do as an offense and put up points. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT