TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 3, 2011
Eric Stephens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






TEXAS STATE  – 10
  TEXAS TECH  – 50

 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Eric. 

 Q. Can you talk about that run, the touchdown, what you were feeling, and your performance?
 ERIC STEPHENS: It was a great check by Doege, first off. It was a pass play. Doege checked the run. And I seen Omar kick his guy out. Coach always tell him make sure you have inside leverage. He had inside leverage perfect. Omar does a great job blocking. And there was nobody there. I just had to split the safeties. That was it. 

 Q. Seemed like it opened up wider than you would've imagined?
 ERIC STEPHENS: Definitely, we didn't run the ball in the first half. It was kind of slow. I think I was pressing too much, trying to make something happen, instead of doing what I've been coached by Coach Brown and Coach Scott to do. 
 And one of my freshman teammates, actually Ronnie Daniels, he told me: Just have fun. I always tell everybody just have fun. Football is about fun. Ronnie Daniels told me: Just have fun. I tried to calm down the second half and just have fun. And after that run, it all just started clicking.

 Q. Were you worried at all about the call?
 ERIC STEPHENS: No. No. Because once I split the safeties, I knew it was six.

 Q. (Inaudible)?
 ERIC STEPHENS: I think that's probably where some of the pressure came. For the first time I was the guy. Like I say, I was just trying to press too hard. I just needed to calm down and play. I think I handled it pretty well in the second half.

 Q. You got 21 carries tonight. Physically, it looked like -- did you feel like you were getting stronger? You had your biggest runs in the second half. 
 ERIC STEPHENS: I really didn't even notice that I had that many carries, honestly, physically. Coach Walker tries to kill us during off season, for the last eight months. So we came out here, it didn't really affect me. 
 And as the game went along, I felt it was just my responsibility to step up and make plays. Darin was trying to help us. But we only had one guy making plays on offense. 
 I tried to help Darin out a little bit and help Seth out with the runs to open up the pass. Once that first run, once that first run hit, everything else started happening.

 Q. Any explanation for the slow start and what was said at halftime to make you guys a lot better in the second half?
 ERIC STEPHENS: Like Coach said, really didn't say anything special. Just told everybody to calm down, not to panic. I think no one was actually in a panic. We knew we could play better than what we was. And we just had to go out and execute. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT