NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 16, 2012
Zach Rey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Zach.   
   
 Q.   Can you take us through the first takedown, what happened there.   
ZACH REY:   He took a shot.   I blocked down, swung behind.   When the period was over, he took injury time.   We hit heads pretty good.   But, you know, I was fine.   
   
 Q.   Your thoughts about reaching the final and another chance to win a national title for yourself and your team.   
ZACH REY:   You know, it's the goal of wrestling, to get to this platform and win a national championship.   I'm happy to be here.   
   
 Q.   Did you ever feel disrespected when you fell to the No.4 seed coming to the tournament?  
ZACH REY:   I didn't care for my seed.   I wanted to wrestle Ryan in the semis.   I do feel confident, even though how many times we've wrestled each other and the times I've lost to him.   
I mean, regarding the season, how that happened, that's a mess.   I mean, everybody knows (indiscernible) did a terrible job this season.   That doesn't matter.   You have to win five matches out here.   
   
 Q.   Could you talk about the influence of Steve Macco on your wrestling.   Obviously he has high goals as an athlete himself.   As a team, what does it do for you to have him as part of your coaching situation and training partner?  
ZACH REY:   Four‑time finalist, two‑time champ, Olympian.   Having that quality of wrestling brings everybody up.   He's done a great job with our upper weights.   It shows.   We have 84, 97 heavyweights all doing well.   
Regarding a workout partner, he's the best.   He battles every day.   He's ready to go from the first whistle to the last whistle in practice.   Very glad the coaches brought him in for me.   
   
 Q.   You talked a little bit about wanting another shot at Ryan.   Could you talk a little bit about your rivalry.   What's your perspective of having him as somebody you had to wrestle all these years?  
ZACH REY:   You know, personally I'd rather him not be in the weight class.   But he's there.   So we've wrestled seven times, I won four, he's won three.   All three times he beat me was in the EIWA conference finals.  
He's a three‑time EIWA champ.   I got him four times outside of EIWAs, Midlands, NCAA finals last year, and the semis.   I'd rather win outside of the EIWA.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks, Zach.   
ZACH REY:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT