OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
January 25, 2020
Ashun Wu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Many congratulations. A wonderful round of 67. Started with an eagle at the 1st. Tell us about the first shot, the approach shot there.
ASHUN WU: Yeah, that's my "Happy Chinese New Year Shot", you know. And first shot, first hole and second shot is unbelievable for me for a very good start to No. 1. So I didn't know I holed it and the gallery went wild and I knew I holed it, so I was very happy.
Q. You went on to chip in at the 3rd hole for another birdie. Your short game today was brilliant. Is it normally that good, are you working at it, what was the secret with the short game today?
ASHUN WU: Yeah, I'm working hard with my short game too and, yeah, some days you get lucky, you can chip from everywhere. So just good feeling today and just chipped it in the hole, so, yeah.
Q. You birdied the 10th, the 11th and the 12th to build a 4-shot lead. What were you feeling as you played those last few holes holding a big lead?
ASHUN WU: The last couple holes I think you have a chance on No. 10, No. 11, I might say No. 12 and 13 too. So that's a good chance for those couple holes and I'm happy to hole three birdies on those four holes. So it feels very, very good. When we had the third birdie, I think I can make more birdies on other holes, so...
Q. You're a proven winner, you've won three times on the European Tour, five times around the world. How valuable is that experience tomorrow? How will that help you?
ASHUN WU: Oh, that's always a good experience for having a great spot there on the weekend. So very comfortable and very relaxed for the weekend and playing the final round.
Q. 67 today, started by that incredible eagle on the 1st. Tell us a little bit about it.
ASHUN WU: Yeah, that's the first hole, I holed an eagle, it's unbelievable for a very, very good start. I called it "Happy Chinese New Year Shot." So, yeah, very happy to hole it and have a good start first hole.
Q. Happy Chinese New Year to you. I understand that you were born in the year of the ox, is that correct?
ASHUN WU: Sorry?
Q. I understand you were born in the year of the ox.
ASHUN WU: Yeah. Yeah.
Q. I understand that persistence and not shying away from hardship or endurance are some of the characteristics of the ox. Is that a recipe to go around this course very well tomorrow?
ASHUN WU: Yeah, it's always happy to have a Chinese New Year, but I was here to play the tournament, but still happy because my family is here and my wife is with me. So it's kind of the same feeling in China, the whole family is together to play the golf here and have a good, very good start for the weekend.
Q. What did you feel were the strengths of your game today? Obviously that incredible eagle at the 1st and then you chipped in for birdie on the 3rd, you made some very key par saves, especially like on the 14th hole.
ASHUN WU: Yeah, today my short game was great, just great. And I got a feeling, I got a feeling just good chip and good putter. So it's sometimes, I say sometimes you get lucky, you have a good chip, you get lucky, so you're going well.
Q. Obviously a multiple winner on the European Tour and I suspect that this course setup is going to present a lot more drama on the back nine holes tomorrow. How important is your experience to handle those situations for tomorrow?
ASHUN WU: Well tomorrow is a great day for me, I think, and I'm always happy to play the final round in the final group. So just enjoy the game and play your best, best game, best round tomorrow and let it happen, that's it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT