BMW MASTERS
October 27, 2012
Ashun Wu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Tell us about your hole‑in‑one.   
ASHUN WU:   Well, the No. 6 hole is 158 yards to the flag.   I used an 8‑iron.   It was a little bit right‑to‑left.   The ball bounced once on the green and then disappeared into the hole.   I heard all of the noises, all of the cheers from the green, and the first thing I did was turn around and see where the car is.   Unfortunately, there's no prize for the hole‑in‑one on No. 6, but I'm still very glad that I got a hole‑in‑one.  
   
 Q.   Have you had one before?   
ASHUN WU:   I had a hole‑in‑one in Japan on the Japanese Tour this year at the Asia‑Pacific Panasonic Open, but there was no special prize for that hole‑in‑one.   
When I saw the car on the 17th hole next to the tee box, I told myself, just one hole‑in‑one per day is good enough.   One of these days I'm going to get a hole‑in‑one and take the car.   
I never had a hole‑in‑one before this year, so when people ask me first a hole‑in‑one, I just kind of kept my mouth shut.   But it's really pure luck, and now I'm so proud to have two hole‑in‑ones in one year.  
   
 Q.   Were you watching the scores today?  
ASHUN WU:   I don't really look at the leaderboard normally, like today I just played my own shot, one shot at a time, just keep very simple thoughts.  
It was an honour to be part of the meet‑the‑player press conference prior to the tournament, and I believe in the future I will probably get the chance to be involved more and more in these kind of press conference events other than the tournament itself, but it's a good chance for him to learn, too.   
Both Zhang and Liang are role models of the game of golf in China and I would like to take my time to learn the game and also to be part of this whole process; hopefully I will set a good examples for the juniors, as well.     
I will be willing to put some of my earnings into a foundation and try to help more and more younger and junior golfers who didn't have the financial ability to learn the game back in my hometown in Xiamen.   That's my goal and that's also what my mom encouraged me, and including my coach, as well.   
My management team put together what I wear and I really like what I put on every day on the golf course.   
There are about a dozen kids, half of them are learning the game in Shanghai and the other half are in the United States with my coach with my junior program, and they are looking for new and younger kids who have the dream of coming a golf professional and go through the role like what I do right now.   
It's a bit more challenging on the golf course today because the wind direction has changed compared to the last couple of days, but the pin locations are still quite fair.  
   
 Q.   Goals for the future?  
ASHUN WU:   My ultimate dream would be to become a player on the US PGA TOUR, but the next couple of years, I will focus on the Japan Tour, even though the 2016 Olympic Games is only three years away, but I would love to be a representative representing China playing in the 2016 Olympic Games.   
   
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT