ROSE BOWL GAME PRESENTED BY VIZIO: OREGON v WISCONSIN
December 28, 2011
Michael Clay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Where are you staying?
MICHAEL CLAY:   Intercontinental, just down the street from the Century Plaza.

Q.   First game against LSU (inaudible) just curious, (inaudible) was it difficult to put that aside and bounce back?
MICHAEL CLAY:   I'd say the first couple of days, kind of a bad taste in your mouth.   But for the most part it was a long season.   It was the first game‑‑ we still had, what, 11 more games to go through.   So we couldn't dwell on it so much.   So the first couple of days kind of hard to swallow but after that we put it behind us and kind of had to get our first one to get the ball rolling.

Q.   How good were they?
MICHAEL CLAY:   They're really good.   They might not hit you with a lot on offense, but defense is really tenacious, but special teams, they're really good.   A really team.

Q.   (Inaudible) played against Wisconsin (inaudible), energetic, the same way now?
MICHAEL CLAY:   Coach Al, every day he's always out there energetic trying to get us all ready.   So Coach Al just brings a great energy to the practice field.

Q.   Is his personality reflected in (inaudible)?
MICHAEL CLAY:   Definitely.   Definitely.   Definitely have an attacking defense.   His personality is really attacking, but he's a great guy.   And we just kind of feed off of him.   How his energy level is kind of reflects our defense energy level.

Q.   You guys are kind of along the same lines, No. 2 in sacks in the country.   You guys (inaudible) last year, turnovers last year.   What's the key to that?   Is it that protecting, aggressive defense?   You guys pride yourselves on so many‑‑ you look back and worry about that?   How good is that to work with?   And what's the key (inaudible)?
MICHAEL CLAY:   You know, just going out and giving it all.   We all have high motors.   Just play until the end of the whistle.   It's shown, with B. Hanna and Taylor over there, they do a great job of using their hands, technique, getting after the quarterback. 
As you said, second in the country in sacks.   Just motors and wanting to get after it.   You know, some of it is just want‑to, and they all have want‑to.

Q.   In this game tailback or quarterback?
MICHAEL CLAY:   I feel more their tailback than their quarterback.   If we stop one thing that they're really good at, it turns into kind of a one‑dimensional team, gets them out of their comfort zone.

Q.   Is it typical‑‑ two guys have started the games this year.   Just curious, how do you guys play at such a high level (inaudible) is it the depth?
MICHAEL CLAY:   The starting lineup doesn't reflect us.   We sub in so much.   We're playing with each other for X amount of plays.   So it really doesn't feel like there's someone else on the field, a new starter or anything.   I just feel the way we play and how we substitute people in doesn't really change how we play or any decline off of production.

Q.   One of the assistant coaches was saying (inaudible) seem that your reserves are as good as the starters. 
MICHAEL CLAY:   Everyone has their own opinions, but we just go out there, try to give us the best lineup to give us a W.

Q.   I think they just meant that they're so good that, like you said, if one guy comes out it doesn't make a difference. 
MICHAEL CLAY:   Definitely from winter conditioning on everyone is trying to get on the same level.   Because if someone unfortunately does go down, we'll be able to not lose production, that we'll be able to kind of contribute to the team.

Q.   What are your thoughts on Russell Wilson?   He's not the typical Wisconsin quarterback.   Makes plays?
MICHAEL CLAY:   He's a really good quarterback.   From North Carolina State.   Just watching college football.   He's really good.   He could run the ball, pass the ball.   So he's very multi‑talented.   He's not a one thing guy.   He can run the ball if he has to.   He can create on his feet.   And he has just great leadership and command of the offense. 
He's a really, really good quarterback.

Q.   How does he compare to Cam Newton?   Similar type of preparation?
MICHAEL CLAY:   I won't say all that.   It's the system he's in also.   They want to run the ball at you.   You don't want to spend time trying to play the option.   He's definitely not 6'6", 240.   Last year with Cam Newton, that's just one freak of an athlete.   But he's a really good athlete as well.   Drafted to play baseball also.   So you have to keep in mind that he can run.   But he's a really good passer.

Q.   What about their offensive line, typical Wisconsin line (inaudible) what did it look like?
MICHAEL CLAY:   Yeah, their linemen are big, but they're also athletic.   They'll get out there, run a couple of plays where they pull a bunch of linemen, get their shoulders coming down field and they can really come at you.   They're a really good line, big, as you can see.   But I think we'll be up to the challenge.   We've got a really good defensive line as well.   The coaches have had us prepared since we were in Eugene.   So I think it will be a great matchup in the front seven.

Q.   (Inaudible)?
MICHAEL CLAY:   I wouldn't say sick.   We see film every day.   Kind of just gets a little redundant.   But, you know, what can you do?   You just gotta be ready to play them on January2nd.

Q.   Do they compare to anyone you've seen?
MICHAEL CLAY:   Probably the closest thing is Stanford.   Stanford had a really big line, athletic line.   I'd say that's probably the closest thing that we've come. 
USC also had a big line.   So we faced big linemen this past season.   So I think we'll be very well prepared for Wisconsin.

Q.   Stanford, you made a lot of (inaudible) struggling to handle their size.   Do you think you made some believers on your team, too, that you could handle‑‑
MICHAEL CLAY:   I wouldn't say reiterate.   I think we all knew we could stop the run.   We're all athletic enough.   We all have a strength to our game that could combat their big size.   So we didn't really‑‑ it didn't really surprise us on the team.   We knew what we were getting into, we knew we could stop the run.

Q.   How much does your offense help you in the fact that they can get on it pretty quick and that changes from moment to moment?
MICHAEL CLAY:   It helps us a lot.   They get out on us, we get a three and out or something, stop, and they get out again, four‑two point lead, it just changes their game plan.   They don't want to fall too far behind with how explosive our offense is.   You give it to Michael one time, he's gone for 60 yards.
So it's really nice to have them, to know that's the offense and they can put up points really fast.

Q.   What's the buzz at the team hotel?
MICHAEL CLAY:   The team hotel, I wouldn't say a buzz.   Maybe people, friends and family, you know, want to know what we're wearing, but besides that not a buzz really at the hotel.

Q.   Do you guys come to expect it this time of year?
MICHAEL CLAY:   Yeah, definitely Oregon kind of changed how game jerseys were worn.   You kind of expect it as you're being recruited.   Not anything new or different.

Q.   How was your time last night?
MICHAEL CLAY:   It was fun.   Crowded.   But fun.   Knees hurt from walking around.   Tower of Terror, California Screaming, they were pretty fun.   I'm afraid of heights.   So I don't know why I did it.

Q.   You are?
MICHAEL CLAY:   I'm afraid of heights.   I don't know why I did it but it was fun while doing it.

Q.   Peer pressure‑‑
MICHAEL CLAY:   I won't say that.   Let's go on Tower of Terror, knowing I am afraid of heights.   It's all in good fun.   I went there two years and did it.   But my stomach was a little queasy after it.

Q.   So with all the talk of (inaudible) what do you think people should be talking about Oregon's defense and what are people leaving out of the equation?
MICHAEL CLAY:   I don't know what people are leaving out.   Everyone's entitled to his own opinion.   I'm just kind of looking forward to playing them, and kind of getting after them.   Maybe it will be another defensive struggle like the past two BCS games we've been into.

Q.   Russell Wilson, what do you (inaudible)?
MICHAEL CLAY:   They finish every play.   Monty Ball runs behind his pads really well.   If you tackle him, he'll still fall forward for a couple of yards.   So I think a couple of game tackles to minimize those yards. 
And Russell Wilson, he has great command of the offense.   Can run the ball if he has to.   But can really wing it.   They both have their strengths and abilities that work well hand in hand.

Q.   Does Wilson remind you of anyone you guys played this year?   Anyone?
MICHAEL CLAY:   Maybe a little Keith Price in him.   Keith Price was battling knee injuries.   But if he was healthy I'm sure we could see him running the ball a little bit more. 
But Russell Wilson is a really good quarterback.   And he just kind of comes in his own circle, how multi‑faceted he is, he can throw the ball really well and can run the ball if he has to.

Q.   Get to watch more film with these guys than the regular season, are you guys still picking up things‑‑
MICHAEL CLAY:   At first you kind of pick up the kind of obvious things, now you study for little things, might give you a tip‑off, what play might be run or what trick play will come out of this formation.   Just little tidbits here and there as we get closer to game time.

Q.   (Inaudible) game tackling and things (inaudible) does it pose to the offensive line much more of a challenge?
MICHAEL CLAY:   No, not at all.   It's all about want to, if you want to get to the ball.   We try to get 11 guys at the end of the film on the ball.   If we get all 11 guys there, it gives us a better opportunity to strip the ball.   Someone's holding on, we'll go for the ball.   I don't think the offensive line, big or small, has anything to do with it.   It has to do with want to and attitude and trying to get everybody to the ball.

Q.   (Inaudible) what's going to be the most important thing of stopping?
MICHAEL CLAY:   I think trying to get penetration and staying in our gaps.   Some of their big plays, people aren't disciplined in staying in their gaps and getting in the back field.   They're playing at the line of scrimmage or on the other side of the line.   As long as we're playing in their backfield, and we do our responsibilities as the linebacking corps, I think we'll be able to slow down the running attack.

Q.   (Inaudible) defensive coordinator that takes a lot of gambles, takes a lot of risks, how much as a linebacker do you like that?   Does it make it fun for you?
MICHAEL CLAY:   Definitely makes it fun.   But I wouldn't say risks or gambles.   It's just part of the game plan that he's implemented with us.   It's really funny, you come from different angles, different opportunities for a linebacker to come in.   So it was really fun playing in his system.

Q.   (Inaudible) when you look at the way you've played this year, you have just sort of an innate ability to (inaudible) where does that come from?
MICHAEL CLAY:   You know, coaching, Coach Pellum, we go through these tackling agilities, and it kind of wired me in taking the correct angles.   And I think it's just kind of my strength, my quickness, to kind of read and react and take the correct angle, get to the ball carrier and get there fast enough where a big gain could just be minimized to a medium to short gain.

Q.   (Inaudible) how much if any is that satisfaction were you able to take from those performances?
MICHAEL CLAY:   I mean, satisfaction‑wise, it all relates to that year.   It's a new year.   So we kind of don't dwell on that.   We did a good job containing those guys.   But in the end they did enough where we didn't get the win.   And we're going to try and change that this year.   Kind of contain Russell Wilson and Monty Ball and get the W at the end of the day.

Q.   And you used the word "contain," you just pulled that out of the air.   Are they good enough for you to feel like you have to go in and contain, they're going to make some plays?
MICHAEL CLAY:   I mean, everybody makes plays in the game, but you don't want to go the mindset of just containing them because you start playing cautious.   We want to go out there playing like we know how to play and stop them, make them one dimensional, see if they can beat us with only one part of their game, instead of hitting us with different things, running and throwing the ball.   We just want to play our aggressive style.

Q.   (Inaudible)?
MICHAEL CLAY:   Yeah, definitely.   No, not at all.   We want to just play our game, how we've been playing it for the past 13 games.

Q.   You're starting to get in the realm as far as being (inaudible) when you look at the way it's run, can you talk about the things you were involved in (inaudible)?
MICHAEL CLAY:   You know, what people see, you just see the football player, not what goes into the behind closed doors, but Coach Pellum does a great job not just incorporating football, but lifelong lessons and skills behind closed doors.
And it helps us a lot, coming in, right out of high school, you kind of still are immature, kind of naive.   But learning from the coaches what they have to say to us, really helps us not just on the football field but in life, career path‑wise.

Q.   When you look at the way the coaches have done that, how much do you look at them really as role models and people sort of trying to emulate their personal activities?
MICHAEL CLAY:   I would have to say you kind of just are taking their advice, you just want to keep that with you, and kind of create your own self.   Create your own role model to other people.   So you are just taking from, taking a little from everybody.

Q.   When you look at that, that process, I'm not asking‑‑ I'm not saying‑‑ not asking you to comment on Penn State and‑‑ but how important is it that the coaches do the right thing in their own lives and how important is that to you as a player?
MICHAEL CLAY:   It's very important.   You know, because you see these guys from August all the way up to December.   And they're kind of your, what you want to look up to.   They set the standard for you to live your life. 
So it's very important to have them set the right example so we can follow it.

Q.   You're going to be a senior next year?
MICHAEL CLAY:   Yeah.

Q.   I cover (inaudible) I was curious if you had any reaction at all of Barkley's decision, I don't know if you're aware that he decided to come back for a senior season?
MICHAEL CLAY:   No, just be another great challenge when we come down here next year.   He's a really, really good quarterback.   So I respect his game 100percent. 
So I'm glad with whatever decision he made, whether he stays in college or goes to the NFL.   But he's going to be a really good quarterback next year.   He's got weapons to do some big things.

Q.   Did you notice a difference from the last‑‑ from the last year's game to this past, this year?
MICHAEL CLAY:   I would have to say more of the command of the offense.   He's out there making sure everyone's on the right page, kind of just taking the leadership role to a whole nuther level.

Q.   For you guys on defense, you guys play a lot of guys.   Are you pretty much on the field the whole time or are you coming in and out?
MICHAEL CLAY:   I get a couple blows here and there.   Everyone needs some rest.   But I'm out there usually for the majority of the part‑‑ not just to get people lined up kind of settled down and everything. 
I've embraced that role after losing Spencer and Casey last year.   Brandon and Kenny and everything, you kind of lose some of that relationship.   There's new people every year.   Everyone's done a great job from Eddie Pleasant to Anthony Gildon and can Dewitt Stuckey, and Taylor and Terrell Turner, basically the whole defense coming out here and stepping up to their leadership role and making sure we're on the right page.

Q.   You were out here two years ago, right?
MICHAEL CLAY:   Yeah.

Q.   How different‑‑ is this team much different than that one and if so (inaudible)?
MICHAEL CLAY:   I'd say we're a lot more focused.   We kind of came in here two years ago not knowing what to expect.   We came in here just kind of enjoying that we were in the Rose Bowl game.   It's a great honor, win our Pac‑10 championship and come here.   But now we know what we're expecting.   We're expecting us to come out here give our best shot and get a win Monday.

Q.   Talk about USC.   What did you think when you heard Barkley was coming back? 
MICHAEL CLAY:   It will be a great game next year down in The Coliseum.   He's a really good quarterback.   Respect his game 100percent.   And just kind of expecting big things out of him.   It will be just another battle next year.

Q.   Were you surprised at all?   Did you think‑‑ most people thought (inaudible) probably the second quarterback‑‑
MICHAEL CLAY:   I wouldn't say surprised.   Everyone makes their own decisions.   I respect his decision to come back to college and everything.   So I wasn't really surprised that he stayed another year.

Q.   And going into next season, most people are looking at you guys as the favorites in the conference.   Do you think the fact that they have never won a Bowl game (inaudible) you guys have essentially (inaudible) do you think that will help this program and something that they haven't had in the last couple of years?
MICHAEL CLAY:   No, I don't think so.   I think every college team knows what they're getting into when they get into Bowl season and everything.   But right now we're not really trying to look at next year, because we still have to win one more game.   I wouldn't say there's a difference or anything.   I think they'll be ready if they get into a Bowl game next year, take on the extra practices.   They're going to strive to get a big Bowl game win.

Q.   Surprising to you that they maintained as well as they have given the sanctions and stuff that they've felt?
MICHAEL CLAY:   Oh, no, the recruiting classes before that, they've got top tier athletes.   They still get top tier athletes.   With the sanctions, really hasn't surprised me at all.   The prestigious, storied program.   So just off their name they're going to get a lot of people wanting to commit to USC.

Q.   So you come to LA, do you expect‑‑ do you feel you have to (inaudible)?
MICHAEL CLAY:   No.   It's kind of their home city so we expect them to, expect the questions from the home city.   I'm sure if we were in the Bay Area, you would get questions about Stanford and Cal.   So it goes with the territory.

Q.   Exactly.   You guys have had enough attention lately.   So don't feel you're getting ripped off?
MICHAEL CLAY:   Not at all. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT