INDY PRO SERIES: CORNING TWIN 100S
July 7, 2007
Wade Cunningham
Alex Lloyd
Hideki Mutoh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MODERATOR:  While we wait for our winner, we have our second and third-place finishers coming to the podium now:    
 Hideki Mutoh, who was our runner up today; and Alex Lloyd, who finishes third.    
 By way of information here, Hideki Mutoh, of course, as we said, finished second, his eighth top 5 finish in nine starts this year.  And Alex Lloyd finishes third; and as remarkable as it may sound, that's his worst finish of the year.  He's had a top 3 finish in all of the races so far and is the points leader.   
 And, provisionally, it's 425 points for Alex Lloyd.  Hideki Mutoh was second with 311.  And that's how we stand right now.    
 Gentlemen, if you want to, Hideki, we'll start with you, talk a little bit about the race itself and your efforts to run down Wade Cunningham.   
 HIDEKI MUTOH:  I was right behind Wade.  And I tried to pass him as he came every lap.  But I couldn't make it.  And the last lap looks like I got close to him.    
 So I tried again, but it didn't happen.  I still have tomorrow, so I'll go for it.   
 MODERATOR:  Alex, as we said, you finished third today.  Talk a little bit about your race and efforts to run down the guy here.   
 ALEX LLOYD:  Well, today was really a bad race, really, in terms of we made a stupid mistake on down force and that cost us any chance of winning, really.    
 I mean, we were just so slow down the straight that that really was it for us, I knew from the first lap.    
 So we had our hands full, really, on restarts and any time we went down the straight.  But saying that, we had a really good car through the corners.  We were rapid and we used -- when we got stuck behind Phil Giebler or got past him, had a bit of a gap to close down, and we managed to get that gap down pretty quickly.  But in doing so we lost the tires in the last couple of laps, we really struggled with tires, and that was that.    
 But even if we got as close as we could, I don't think there was any way of getting past anybody.  So today the best we could do was third.  So we'll settle for that today.  It was certainly a disappointing run, but we brought it home still in the top 3.  So that's good.  And we've got another chance tomorrow.  I think we start fourth.    
 So I feel a lot more confident going into tomorrow's race than I do about today's race.  Hopefully we'll have a good run.   
 MODERATOR:  Alex, on one of the restarts there, Giebler made a move underneath you down in turn 1.  Talk about that situation.  That was pretty close.    
 ALEX LLOYD:  I think Wade brake-checked everybody a little bit in the last corner.  And we were all going flat out thinking that we were going green.  He hit the brakes going into the final turn.  We all checked up.  And that let Phil get right with me.  And then, as I said before, when I got down the straight with five mile an hour slower than where we should be, and he got a clean, easy run down the inside.    
 Then it was a tricky thing of trying to get back at him.  That was the tough bit.  But we managed to do it.  It was a bit of a close move.  But I knew that if I had wanted any chance of a decent result, I had to get past him as quickly as possible and attempt to catch the leaders.  But, like I said, when we got there, the tires were gone and that was the best we could do.   
 MODERATOR:  Hideki, it appeared to be a pretty clean race for you.  Were there any moments that got your attention out there?   
 HIDEKI MUTOH:  Not really, no.    
 MODERATOR:  Do we have any questions?    
  
  Q.  Hideki, what did you learn for tomorrow?    
 HIDEKI MUTOH:  Difficult question.  I learned quite a lot about the car.  I'm getting used to more on the track because this is my first time.  And yesterday we didn't have much sufficient time.  So I was still learning in the race.  So it should be good tomorrow.    
 MODERATOR:  Gentlemen, thank you and best of luck tomorrow.    
 We have in the media center now our winner, Wade Cunningham.  Wade, of course never hurts to get to turn 1 quick.  You battled Alex Lloyd pretty hot and heavy going into turn 1.   
 WADE CUNNINGHAM: Yes, it was important to stay on the lead on the first lap and get to third line up the hill going into back top.  I could see he didn't get a good run out of 1.  I forced him on the dirty side of the track from the start.  He really had to defend from Hideki.  It gave me a cushion, and I could drive my preferred line.  I push pretty hard in qualifiers the first few laps, caused a caution pretty quick.  Had to do the same thing twice more.  It was pretty easy race, really. Just had to make sure I did the fundamentals right and not make many mistakes.   
 MODERATOR:  The last lap the gap closed, were you in control all the way?    
 WADE CUNNINGHAM: Yes, I was trying to keep that 1.5 gap.  After the last restart, I saw Alex got forced back a bit.  I saw him catching Hideki quite quickly.    
 I thought maybe I had to push a little harder in the last five laps in case Alex got into the thick, because he's I'm sure a bit quicker.  But it's difficult to tell when they're running behind someone else.  I just had that little cushion and I just maintained it.    
 MODERATOR:  Of course tomorrow, second half of the 2100s, you have the honor of starting sixth, I believe.  Any thoughts on that?    
 WADE CUNNINGHAM: It could be worse.  I could be starting eighth.   
 MODERATOR:  Well said.  Questions from the media.    
  
  Q.  Wade, you had an incident this morning.  Can you describe what happened and what had to be done to the car to get it race-ready?   
 WADE CUNNINGHAM: Yes, we went out at 9:00 in the morning for second qualifying and the track temp was about 25 degrees colder.  I didn't have the tires up to temp.  I slid off and beached myself off the curb in turn 10 and I ran parallel to the track in the dirt.  I couldn't pull it back.  I just dove it straight into the exit wall there, the right front.  I hit the right front corner, the undertray and the nose.   
  
  Q.  Obviously you had to have your car repaired.  Only practice you had was in the warm-up lap.  Doesn't seem like they did anything, put exactly where it was?   
 WADE CUNNINGHAM: It was nearly spot on.  A couple things which I'd like to improve, but I don't think they were from the accident.  I think it was just general set-up.  You never know what's going to happen.  Full tanks, different tires.  The only thing I was worried about was starting on the stickers.  I scrubbed them as good as I could.  We got the caution pretty early.  It gave me time to build up some heat on my tires.   
  
  Q.  A few days ago, anything you learned there that gave you the three seconds qualifying lead?   
 WADE CUNNINGHAM: Definitely worth the test, as everything goes.  I need to thank the team owner for letting us come.  You could see the other top runners really struggling in the first and second practice today.  They were playing catch-up all weekend.  They're there now.  But we were always just a little step ahead because of that.  So it was very worthwhile, and I'm sure it contributed greatly to where we were at now.   
  
  Q.  Last couple of races your team has really stepped up the pace.  You struggled at the beginning.  What made the difference and how come you're in the top 1 here but you're in the top 2 and 3 in the last few races?    
 WADE CUNNINGHAM: I think the team has been putting in pretty long hours, getting the car better.  Dave and I are getting a better relationship.  He's my engineer.  But we had pace at Homestead and I threw into the wall in the lead.  Then I threw it into the podium at Indy.  For sure we had a top 2 car that day.  So we've had the raw speed and everything.  We haven't put it together on the days.    
 And we're here now and we're on a roll.  Once you get your confidence up, it's a lot easier.   
  
  Q.  Third or second win, back at Watkins Glen?   
 MODERATOR:  Third or second win, back to Watkins Glen.   
 WADE CUNNINGHAM: I definitely think we have the strongest car.  I don't see why there's any reason why Hideki or why Alex would get to the front a lot sooner than I.  We're going to be starting there right on top of each other.  It's going to be who can navigate traffic and get to the front.    
 I'm going to save the yellows tomorrow.  People will make mistakes.  It will give us a chance to catch anyone who gets in the way.  I definitely think it's doable.  It's happened at St. Pete which is difficult to pass on.  So there's no reason why it can't be done tomorrow.    
 MODERATOR:  This is Wade's first win of the season, fifth of his Indy Pro Series career.  Most recent win September 2006 at Chicagoland.    
 And as Rick mentioned, he has finished third in his first appearance, second in his second appearance.  And won his third appearance at Glen.  And good luck tomorrow.  Our winner, Wade Cunningham.    
 By the way, the unofficial points, currently Alex Lloyd, 425; Hideki Mutoh, 311, which puts Mutoh 114 behind.  And Bobby Wilson is third with 259.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT