NCAA MEN'S 1ST AND 2ND ROUNDS: DENVER
March 16, 2016
Kevin Willard
Derrick Gordon
Angel Delgado
Isaiash Whitehead
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: We're joined by Seton Hall student-athletes.   
We'll take questions for our student-athletes.   
 Q.  What has it been like, the feel so far since you got here as far as the excitement, atmosphere and buildup?  
ISAIAH WHITEHEAD: It's been tremendous so far.  But I can speak for all of us.  I know that we just can't wait to get out there tomorrow and compete at a high level.   
We worked all season for this, to just be in the position we are now.  We just got to take advantage of it.   
ANGEL DELGADO: Yeah, I'm just feeling blessed to be here.  Is not everybody can get here.  We worked really hard to be in this position right now.   
I'm just feeling good.  I know the whole team feeling great, too.   
DERRICK GORDON: It's a great experience.  Good to be back.  Just getting out here early with these guys, getting adjusted to the breathing and everything.  It's been great so far.   
My guys are ready to go.   
 Q.  Derrick, you talked about coming back.  Your experience on this team.  A lot of guys haven't been to the tournament, but you have.  What have you been talking to them about your experience?  
DERRICK GORDON: Just stay composed.  It's going to be up and down.  That's why they call it March Madness.  Whether we go up or they go up, we got to stay composed.  It's very easy to talk to these guys and these guys listen.   
I'm really sure we'll go out there and we'll take care of business.   
 Q.  Isaiah, what did y'all think on Selection Sunday when you saw you would be facing Gonzaga?  
ISAIAH WHITEHEAD: We knew it was going to be tough.  They're an experienced group.  They have Kyle.  He's a tremendous player.  I think he's probably All-American in college.   
They've been here before.  I think this is probably like their 17th or 18th straight time being here.   
It's going to be a tough first game, but I think we're up for the challenge.   
 Q.  Derrick, the team's defense has been its calling card this year.  How big is that going to be against a team who might not have seen your level of defense this year?  
DERRICK GORDON: It's going to be huge.  For the most part just from watching film on them, we seen a lot of teams, they weren't playing as aggressive as we do.  That's something we was focusing on in practice these past couple days.  We got to go out there and throw the first punch.  We got to be aggressive.   
 Q.  What have you drawn from going up against Henry Ellenson and Luke Fischer from Marquette that you can use against Gonzaga?  
ANGEL DELGADO: It's the same.  It's the same thing.  They big guys.  They got a lot of skills.   
I just got to play tough and play hard, man.  That's how you win the battle all the time.  You got to be tough and play hard.   
 Q.  Derrick, given your role as the first openly gay player in college basketball, do you feel there's more of a microscope on you, that you have to perform well to prove anything, or do you just go out and play?  
DERRICK GORDON: No, I don't have anything to prove to nobody.  The story has been out since 2014, so it shouldn't be a story as it is.  My teammates know.  Everybody knows.  There's no pressure at all.   
It's just me going out there and knowing what I know how to do.   
 Q.  As people who love basketball, how much are you looking forward to seeing Ish match up against Kyle?  
ISAIAH WHITEHEAD: He's a tremendous defender.  He's always up for a challenge.  He's battled with some of the best players in the Big East, All-Conference, definitely non-conference of who we played.   
I think he's one of the most underrated defenders in the country.  He just really gets after it.  I think that helped him during the season to look forward to playing against Kyle.   
 Q.  Derrick, what is the difference between the squad we saw in January that lost four out of five, and the team we're watching now that has finished so strong?  
DERRICK GORDON: It's a lot different now, of course.  I mean, with this group of guys, I just had a meeting with them, I told them, It's all about winning.  The more we win, the more everybody's going to get recognized.  These guys bought into that.   
We're a very unselfish group.  We don't worry about points, we don't worry about rebounds.  We just worry about the outcome of the game, and that the winning.  When you have everybody that's on that same page, we can beat everybody in the country.   
 Q.  Derrick, you talk about the story is old, about two years ago you coming out.  Do you think that's a sign of growth, that it's not really a big deal?  
DERRICK GORDON: I would hope so.  I mean, I'm not the one to judge.  I know who I am.  Everybody knows.  Just as I said before, I'm not out to prove anything.  I know what I have to do.  I know my skill level.   
I mean, it's just going out there and doing what I know how to do with my teammates.   
 Q.  Isaiah, what was it like for you being Mr. Basketball in New York, knowing all of the legendary players that have also been named that, the Dr. J's and people like that that played in New York?  
ISAIAH WHITEHEAD: It was a huge accomplishment.  I think growing up behind guys like Sebastian and Lance Stephenson, who all won those awards, I really just wanted to do it.   
It was kind of a thing in Coney Island where I'm from.  If you're the best basketball player in New York City, you have to get that award.   
It was definitely something I wanted to win since I was younger.   
 Q.  Isaiah, could you talk about Derrick as a teammate and as a leader, what he brings to this team at this time of year.  
ISAIAH WHITEHEAD: I mean, he brings out emotion.  He brings everything.  He just picks us up when we're down.  We're a real young group.  He's the lone senior on the team.  He really helps us in a lot of different ways.   
Missing shots, getting back on defense, every little thing he helps us with.  He really helped us since he got here in the summertime.   
 Q.  Isaiah, you've played here in Denver before, the high altitude, its effects on your body.  Have you reached out to your teammates, helping them after practice, giving them advice?  
ISAIAH WHITEHEAD: I mean, that was so long ago, I kind of forgot what it felt like.  I've been through it.  We've been out here already two days preparing.   
I think they really getting the hang of it, how difficult it is to really get up and down the floor at this altitude.   
I think we've grown accustomed to it in these last few days so it shouldn't be a problem tomorrow.   
 Q.  Derrick, you've transferred.  You made this move.  Two things.  How easy is it to become a leader in a short period of time?  Second, how worthwhile was the move you made?  
DERRICK GORDON: To answer your first question, it definitely has been an adjustment.  Coming in here, I mean, starting at my past two schools, coming in here, coming off the bench has definitely been an adjustment.  Me personally being a vocal leader, I was always more the silent type, I let my game speak for itself.   
But these guys are really easy to talk to.  I didn't really have to do as much except bringing that killer attitude and winner attitude to them.  It all started in practice the first day I stepped on campus.  They kind of followed me.   
 Q.  You made the move.  How worthwhile was it?  Did you think it was a risk and did the risk pay off?  
DERRICK GORDON: A risk as far as what?   
 Q.  As far as transferring.  
DERRICK GORDON: I didn't look at it like that.  I was going back to my home state to play my last year.  Coming off the bench thing didn't really affect me.  I'm a winner.  Regardless if I would have started coming off the bench, it really doesn't matter to me.   
I embraced the role and took advantage of it.  Coach Willard, he told me from day one what my role was, what I'm capable of doing with that role.  I was excited for it.  It was a new role for me.   
My job was just to make sure, I mean, come in and do what I was supposed to do.   
 Q.  Isaiah, for this team, Gonzaga defending 29% from the three, but they haven't exactly seen some of the guard play of the Seton Hall's caliber, do you take that into account, looking to drive first in this game?  
ISAIAH WHITEHEAD: We definitely going to look to drive more, because of those two big great men they have.  Try to do as much as possible just to put them under a little pressure, either a little pick'n roll action or going to the basket, trying to make them foul us or really just trying to get them out of the game.   
 Q.  Isaiah, what went into the preparation for the Big East tournament that led into those back-to-back-to-back games you had?  What do you need to continue the hot streak you're on?  
ISAIAH WHITEHEAD: I think the way we were winning at the end of our regular season, the Big East really helped a lot.  We were a real confident group.  We really don't back down from anyone.   
I think that first game versus Creighton, it was probably the toughest game of the tournament just because it was the first.  We really didn't know what to expect.   
Those second two, we just looked at it as an opportunity to really prove ourselves to the country.  Those teams are ranked top five in the country.  It's really an opportunity to prove ourselves.   
Going forward, we just have to keep playing defense.  We have some great defensive numbers.  If we keep that up, we'll be a hard team to beat.   
 Q.  Isaiah, have you spoken to Kamari Murphy of the Hurricanes, another Lincoln product?  Have you been following the team or how he's doing?  Talk a little bit about that.  
ISAIAH WHITEHEAD: Kamari Murphy has always been a brother to me basically since I was a freshman in high school.  We played on the same team.   
I've been following him a lot.  He's had a tremendous season so far.  He just hit me up after the Big East tournament, really told me to keep balling, keep playing my game, stay confident, and all the good things will happen.   
 Q.  It's a unique situation for you guys.  As far as y'all's experience factor.  How do you look at that?  
ISAIAH WHITEHEAD: I mean, I think we really just hold each other accountable for everything we do.  That helps us out a lot.  There's no pointing fingers.  If one person does something, it's really on the team.  That helped us grow up a lot throughout the year.   
It really hasn't been tough.  I mean, Derrick has been a huge addition.  Even though he's new, he's really filled that leader role and helped us out a lot.  He made it a lot easier.   
 Q.  What is your favorite pregame hype song?  
ANGEL DELGADO: I'm a Spanish guy.  I listen to Spanish music.  That's what I be listen to because it motivate me a lot.   
ISAIAH WHITEHEAD: I mean, I really don't have a specific song.  But, I mean, once I see Angel jumping around to the Spanish music, just getting going, getting ready to get on the floor, that helps us out a lot to get in a good mood.   
I think we really play well when we're not as serious as possible.  When we're loose and feel confident, we're all having fun, I think that's when we play our best.   
I think Angel helps us out a lot before the game with the Spanish music and jumping around, really getting us comfortable.   
DERRICK GORDON: Migos, 'Look At My Dab.'   
 Q.  You didn't get ranked until this past week.  Coach Willard said he felt you were under-seeded.  Gonzaga is favored.  Have you embraced being the underdog, having a chip on your shoulder?  
ANGEL DELGADO: Yeah, I love that.  They say the same thing about Creighton, not going to win the first game in the Big East tournament.  We prove everybody wrong.  That's what we talk about, let's prove everybody wrong when we go on the court.   
ISAIAH WHITEHEAD: Of course, we feel that we should get more respect than we usually do.  But, I mean, it's life.  You really just got to move forward and just keep balling.  I think we've done a great job at that.   
THE MODERATOR: We'll dismiss the student-athletes at this time.  Thank you, men.   
We have Seton Hall Coach Kevin Willard.  We'll open it up directly for questions for coach.   
 Q.  Kevin, just the fact that this is the first time here for so many guys except for Derrick, how do you feel you guys have handled just the hype of this, the difference of it from a regular game?  
COACH WILLARD: I think it's taken us a couple days to get over the Big East championship.  We've had the late game Thursday, Friday, then Saturday ended at 11:00.  You woke up Sunday, it was Selection Sunday.  That was a late day because we didn't get selected till late.  We traveled out here on Monday.   
I thought Tuesday and Wednesday was the first couple days where we looked back to normal.  We practiced really good.  We practiced long today.   
This group, it's a fun group to be around because they just want to play the games.  They're sick and tired of me telling them about how good Wiltjer is, Sabonis is.  They're done with that.  They just want to get to Thursday and play.  That's kind of what this group has done really good.   
 Q.  What is the difference between the Seton Hall team that went 1-4 in January during that rush stretch, and the team we've watched over the last couple weeks when everything has kind of come together.  
COACH WILLARD: I don't know if I have my schedule here.  Hold on a second.   
All right, so we went, at Nova, where nobody wins.  I don't think anyone has won in 12 years there.  Came home, played a really good Creighton.  Won a big game at Providence.  Had Villanova home, and had at Xavier.   
Kind of the schedule a little bit.  You know, we were playing pretty good basketball.  We beat Wichita State, won at Marquette, had a really tough game at Villanova.  We had the flu against Creighton the first time.  Angel was sick, Isaiah was sick.  The Villanova home game was a tough one.  That was one that I felt we could have won.  We lost by one at the buzzer.  At Xavier is a really tough place to play.   
Sometimes the way the schedule was set up, that can kind of dictate in the Big East how you play.  But with all those games, the only really bad game we played was Creighton.  Everybody else, we had a chance to win at Nova, had a chance to win at Xavier.  Was a four-point game with three minutes to go.   
I never really got worried when we were losing four out of five.  I thought we were really in good shape.  I thought the schedule really kind of dictated to our favor in the middle part of the Big East.   
So we've been playing pretty solid since the Wichita State game.  Since that time I thought Isaiah has matured, our defense has started to get more consistent, and we've been rebounding the basketball.   
Sometimes in college wins and losses can be how your schedule kind of falls.   
 Q.  Kevin, you mentioned Wiltjer and Sabonis.  What do you want to see out of those matchups defensively?  
COACH WILLARD: I mean, Wiltjer and Sabonis are two of the better big-guy combos I've seen in a long time in college basketball.   
We've explained it to Angel and Mike and Ish.  It's like playing the grown unpredictable version of Ellenson and Fischer.  Just because you have a redshirt senior, Sabonis is a sophomore obviously.  They're a little bit more mature.  Wiltjer is a little more mature.  Ellenson shoots it a little better from the outside.   
Sabonis is so skilled.  He's a tough guy to double because he passes the ball so quickly out of the post.  Most big guys don't do a good job of passing it.  He does a great job of passing it.   
It's definitely two big matchups.  To be honest with you, the way Perkins and McClellan have been playing for them the last five to six games, to me that's just a big of a matchup as anybody.   
 Q.  I think Derrick had mentioned in some past interviews that there were some programs that might have shied away from him.  Did you see any risk in bringing him in here?  
COACH WILLARD: No.  Once I sat down with Derrick, and we recruited Derrick out of high school, so I knew Derrick pretty well.  When I sat down with Derrick, I said, Derrick, this must be about basketball 'cause that's what you're telling me.  Is this going to be about basketball?   
He said, Coach, I just want to go someplace and play hoops.  I want to be close to home, close to my family.   
Once we both were on the same page, I mean, it's 2016, you know.  It's been such a blessing having him here.  Our guys accepted him right away.  I mean, it was such a non-factor for me.  It was a non-factor for our guys.  It was a non-factor for Seton Hall University.  It just shows you what a great place it is to go.   
It was so supportive for him, I think it made the transition so easy.  It's just never been an issue.  It hasn't been an issue all year.  It's kind of weird.  This is the first time since a year that we've been asked about it.  It's just a non-issue.   
 Q.  Coach, how important is it to get Angel involved right away in this game?  
COACH WILLARD: Yeah, I mean, it's important to get him touches 'cause it keeps teams honest.  As much as we run pick'n rolls for Isaiah and Khadeen, it's important we get him the basketball.   
They do a good job doubling the post, coming from the weak-side guard.  We do need to go after Sabonis and Wiltjer.  We have to make them defend.  Anytime you have big guys so skilled and put up the numbers they do, you have to go after them.  Mark does a great job protecting them.   
We got to get them involved, but we got to make sure we pick the right spots to get them involved.   
 Q.  Coach, with the way that Gonzaga defends the three, do you think it's just a matter of they haven't faced as high a level of competition as Seton Hall?  
COACH WILLARD: No.  BYU, Saint Mary's, at SMU, UCLA, Arizona, Tennessee, Connecticut, Texas A&M, Washington, Pittsburgh.  This is probably as good a basketball team as we've played.   
I don't look at defensive numbers as much.  We're not going to change what we do because they defend the three really well, which they do.  Providence defends the three really well.  Villanova.   
They've seen great competition.  I think this is why everybody is saying it's going to be such a good matchup.  I think this is two excellent teams, you know, with great players.  I mean, it's a really good matchup.   
They defend well at the three-point line.  We don't take a whole lot of threes anyways.  I'm not going to sit there in three days and try to change what we do and who we are.  This time of year we are who we are.  We'll keep doing what we do offensively.   
 Q.  NCAA tournament, we see a lot of young stars.  Sometimes there's challenging balancing the responsibility.  What has been your message to Isaiah to balance the responsibilities and remain poised?  
COACH WILLARD: I'm sure he probably told you this.  Z just balls.  I always love when people ask about expectations or matchups.  These kids just play hoops, man.  That's just who they are.  It's in their DNA.  He's a Brooklyn kid.   
He doesn't look at this as like obligations or pressure.  He doesn't see that.  He looks at it as another opportunity for him to go out and play hoops.   
That's what makes this group fun.  They don't look at it and say, Gonzaga is a three-point favorite, they're disrespecting us.  They'll say that, but at the end of the day, they just don't care.  They know Gonzaga is a really good basketball team and they know they're going to have to go out and play.  All the other stuff, they just don't get that.  They're too young.   
Angel probably didn't understand one question you guys asked him (laughter).  They just know that they got to play really good players this time of year and they got to be ready to play.  There are no expectations.  My guys, as everyone knows, the only pressure my guys have is they have to play hard and they have to defend.  There is no other pressure.   
There's no expectations for them.  Their only expectation is to play hard.  If they don't play hard, that's when they're in trouble, and that's when they'll get it.   
For the most part my kids bring it.  They've been bringing it all year.  That's why they don't feel any pressure.  That's why they don't understand what pressure is.   
 Q.  You mentioned the evolution of Gonzaga's guards in the last six or seven games.  Regarding Josh Perkins, talk to the challenges he presents.  
COACH WILLARD: I don't think McClellan missed a shot in his last three games.  I think he shot 82% in the tournament.   
Perkins, you know, I think he's playing phenomenal.  He's running their team.  He's not getting out of control.  He's getting the ball to Sabonis and Wiltjer in the right places.  He's shooting the ball at an extremely high level.   
He reminds me a little bit of D'Vauntes Smith-Rivera right now the way he's playing.  He's playing under control.  When they need to make a shot, he's made a couple really big shots.   
When I first got the draw, everybody said, Your guards are better, this and that.  I've watched from the SMU game down.  I like their guards.  I think they're really good.   
I can't say the kid's name, I don't want him to get mad at me, but No. 3, Dranginis.  He reminds me of J.P. from Xavier.  Gets rebounds, defends.  McClellan shoots the ball great, defender.  They're all redshirt seniors.   
I don't know how Mark does it.  He must have special water up there to get these guys to stay for six years.  They're really a good basketball team.  It's a big challenge for us.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much, coach.   
COACH WILLARD: Thanks, guys.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT