SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 8, 2020
Emiliano Grillo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Six birdies in a row, how much fun was that?
 EMILIANO GRILLO:   A lot of fun, I mean, making six birdies in a row is always fun, I'll take it any day of the week.  So, yeah, like you said, it was a big putt on 1 and then it was pretty slow.  I was getting it close, not making any.  And then I started hitting it a little bit closer and making some nice strokes from inside 10 feet.  So happy with the round and happy with the start.
 Q. You've played here a couple of times, not a lot of success, what have you learned the few times you played here that's going to help you this week?
 EMILIANO GRILLO:   That you have to make putts here.  I mean, it's a short golf course and you're going to have a lot of opportunities.  And last year I had it going a little bit on the second round and I missed a couple ones and was 4-under par.  So you have to make a lot of birdies out here to have a chance to compete.
 Q. How is the course setup, hole locations, there wasn't much breeze out this morning, good for scoring, obviously?
 EMILIANO GRILLO:   No, definitely.  There was hardly any wind in there, playing softer than usual, so you can attack a lot of pins.  There's just a few ones that you need to be careful but if you are hitting is solid you're going to have a lot of chances out there.  So today is probably average is going to be probably 2-, 3-under par.  So it's going to be good scoring day out there.
 Q. Came to the 11th hole today 1-under par for your round, rolled off a career high six birdies from there.  Talk about your round and maybe what kind of got kick started there on the 11th?
 EMILIANO GRILLO:   I started hitting it closer.  I hit it good on the front nine but I wasn't able to make the putts and then on the back nine I was just able to hit it closer and I was able to make some easy birdies on 15 and 16 and that gave me a solid round on the back nine.
 Q. Always a place where a lot of times you're playing like golf in a dome.  The weather was great.  Did you feel like it was a good scoring day out there?
 EMILIANO GRILLO:   Definitely, there was no wind out there, the course is in magnificent shape and like I said there's hardly any wind so you can attack some pins.  It's playing soft in the morning, the afternoon might change a little bit, but still it's softer than usual so there's a lot of birdies out there.
 Q. Does this score kind of indicate where your game is at this part of the season?
 EMILIANO GRILLO:   Yeah, definitely I've been playing well for the last couple months, I've been making a few more putts.  After the quarantine I've been able to just start hitting it better again and I've been trying to pour everything into it and it's been working.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT