THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 13, 2017
Emiliano Grillo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 5-under today?
EMILIANO GRILLO: Yeah, 5-under.
Q. What were the highlights?
EMILIANO GRILLO: All of them.  Every hole.  You have to play really well out here to shoot 5-under.  I think the highlight of the day was the par that I made on 14.  The pin was along on the left and the tee was back, straight into the wind.  So it was a perfect drive and then I had 240 yards to the hole.  So tried to hit a low 3-iron there and made a good up-and-down from the front of the green.  That really helped my round a lot to, not to make a mistake and keep it going.
Q. Driver, 240, that's a lot of hole.
EMILIANO GRILLO: Yeah, a lot of people are going to have that.
Q. Dead into the wind?
EMILIANO GRILLO: Dead into the wind.
Q. Is this a course where you felt like you could contend coming into the week?
EMILIANO GRILLO: This is a really tough golf course, it doesn't matter how good you're feeling, you have to play really well.  You have to be in the right position from the fairway and when you hit into the green, so you just have to play well out here.  It doesn't matter who you are.
Q. How important was it for you to go out and put your number up earlier in the day with the weather moving in or maybe not?
EMILIANO GRILLO: Hopefully we'll be a couple shots behind.  It's definitely easier to go from behind than with the lead going into Sunday, so, yeah, it really helps just being there, being in contention, going into Sunday with a chance, that's all I'm looking for.
Q. Did you make any significant changes coming into today's round versus the first two rounds?
EMILIANO GRILLO: No, no, I was hitting the ball pretty well, just like I did today.  Some of the holes you can hit a perfect shot and the ball just runs away.  So it was just a matter of staying patient and just wait for my moment.
Q. Is this your second or third time here?
EMILIANO GRILLO: Second.
Q. Second time.  Did you make the cut last year?  No weekend?
EMILIANO GRILLO: MC.
Q. Did you learn something?
EMILIANO GRILLO: No, just like I say, this golf course beats you up and you just got to play well.
Q. What would you do the rest -- like I say, now that you've come out and put your good number up early and you're done, what will you do for the rest of the day?
EMILIANO GRILLO: Nothing, just rest, a little bit of practice.  There's nothing wrong with the way I played today, just try to make some final adjustments for tomorrow and get a good sleep and play well again tomorrow.
Q. What adjustments do you think you need to have for tomorrow?
EMILIANO GRILLO: Nothing.  It really depends on how the golf course is playing.  If it's playing like today, just got to be patient and if not, just got to hit on right side of the hole and give myself chances.
Q. One more like today will probably do it?
EMILIANO GRILLO: Yeah, definitely.  I'll take another one.  I'll take it for the rest of the year.
Q. Do you like the course?  A lot of people have mixed feelings about it, you obviously like it after a pretty good showing.
EMILIANO GRILLO: Yeah, I played this golf course before in the Junior PLAYERS.  It's a different time of the year but I always liked it, I always liked this place, it's hard not to.  It's perfect conditions, like I say, you just, it doesn't matter who you are out here, you just got to play well and make the putts.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT