THE BARCLAYS
August 26, 2016
Emiliano Grillo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Talk us through your round.  What was the biggest strength of your game today?
EMILIANO GRILLO: I played good overall.  Every aspect of my game is right there.  It's been very nice playing out there.  It's a great golf course and you have to play well from tee-to-green, and I managed that.
Made some good putts yesterday and today, so looking forward to the weekend.
Q. What's going to be your key to staying fresh after the busy year you've had?
EMILIANO GRILLO: Well, you know, I've been doing my workout side of tournaments.  So I'm pretty fresh right now.  I had a week off and that always helps.  I know it's going to be tough.  It's going to be a tough weekend and it's going to be a challenge, so I'm looking forward to it.
Q. And goal heading into moving day?
EMILIANO GRILLO: Win it.  Being in the lead on Sunday is going to be the goal.  On Sunday getting is done is the goal.  That's the goal out here.
Q. How was the course playing today?
EMILIANO GRILLO: A bit drier.  I wouldn't say easier than yesterday, but it would be drier.  There are some holes that you need to be careful with.  Yesterday we were able to attack most of the pins and today you just had to be very careful.
Q. How much does it help, your win that you had last year?  You've been on a pretty good run now.  Does that play into this kind of success?
EMILIANO GRILLO: That always helps.  Every time you play a good tournament, it helps you, but it's not going to hurt you.  The last two or three months, I've been playing well.
I'm excited, actually, for the weekend and I'm excited to get another one of those.
Q. A lot of guys maybe struggle with that, but you really haven't had much of a lull.
EMILIANO GRILLO: The first four months of the year, I did struggle and I think my system was very up-and-down.  It was more down at the beginning of the year.  I think I was just too anxious.  I wanted to get another win really quick instead of keep working.  I was actually working really hard; I was just getting anxious on the golf course and not letting the results come to me.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT