THE BARCLAYS
August 25, 2016
Emiliano Grillo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. First Playoffs, how was it out there today?
EMILIANO GRILLO: Yeah, just another round of golf.  Played well on the front nine and then I tried to hold on.  A shame on the third shot on 17, would have give me another shot there.  But very pleased with the way I played.
Q. What did you think of the course overall?
EMILIANO GRILLO: It's great.  It's very tough.  It's a great test, the last ten holes are really hard and you have to play from the fairway or you're going to hit very long irons in there.  I did my job well today.  I played well on the first eight holes and played even from there.
Q. Are you surprised by the early success you've had in your first full year on TOUR?
EMILIANO GRILLO: No, not really.  I worked for this my whole life, I've always said it, I keep repeating myself.  I've been working really hard this year, especially the last eight, nine months, I've been working really, really hard on my game and it's paying off.
Q. How have you been able to balance the schedule?
EMILIANO GRILLO: Definitely, one week, the Olympics, made it a bit more difficult.  There's pretty much -- after the Masters, I took three weeks off, and since then, I think I had three weeks off.  It's been a very busy schedule.  I kind of knew it at the beginning of the year, if I play good enough, I'm going to be in all the four majors and playing the Olympics.
Again, I knew that at the start, the beginning of the year.
Q. What did that experience do for you?
EMILIANO GRILLO: Well, it keeps adding to my game.  It doesn't hurt you, playing new events, playing difficult events, difficult golf courses like this one, and if you play good enough, you keep adding to yourself.
Q. And the Olympics specifically?
EMILIANO GRILLO: That was different.  It's hard to explain it, but of course you get something extra some other players don't have, and that was the thing, trying to get some experience for me, and I think I did.  I had a chance in the last round, and unfortunately I didn't play good enough.
Q. A lot of the top players talk about how the young players coming out today have no fear.  Why are guys like yourself not intimidated by them and feeling like you can compete at the same level?
EMILIANO GRILLO: I think you don't have another choice.  I think you have to come here and play like everybody else.  If you want to be No. 1 or you want to be the FedExCup winner, you have to pretty much play with no fear and that's what everybody tries to do.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT