OLYMPIC GAMES RIO 2016: GOLF
August 13, 2016
Emiliano Grillo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. So how do you feel about your position heading into tomorrow?
EMILIANO GRILLO: Yeah, pretty nice, in a better position. I'm coming from behind, and a good round tomorrow is going to be close. So that's the goal for tomorrow, play well tomorrow and just hope for the best. 

Q. Kind of a strange start to the week (golf clubs missing in transit) to get here and to where you are. 
EMILIANO GRILLO: Yeah, those things happen. It was just a little thing that they didn't know what they were. So that was the thing that had me concerned. But they usually tell you, yeah, it's lost and somewhere, it's in some airport and they will ship it right away. But yeah, those are things that happen to golfers and we have to deal with.

Q. What type of attitude do you have? Do you have to be very aggressive tomorrow? 
EMILIANO GRILLO: No, just go shot by shot and try to birdie every hole. Out here it's very hard, some holes, if you make par, you're really happy with it. There's a bunch of holes, like I hit 3‑wood as a second shot two or three times today and it's a par 4. It's been one of those days; it's been a lot of grinding and 2‑putt from 60 feet to make par. 

Q. So your position now, do you think about the possibility of a medal now?
EMILIANO GRILLO: Oh, yeah, of course. I've been thinking since we knew that golf was going to be in the Olympics. It's been a nice week. It's been an unbelievable experience, and I honestly cannot wait to get it done tomorrow.

Q. What about the support you've had out here, seems like maybe a little bit different type of crowd in terms of really nationalities. 
EMILIANO GRILLO: It's nice. You get a lot of people supporting, especially us that we are right next to home. You get a lot of fans‑‑ I get a lot of people from my city that have come to watch me play. It's been a nice week. It's nice to be here close to home. It's very nice. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT