PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
July 29, 2016
Emiliano Grillo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Talk about your round today, especially the conditions?  
EMILIANO GRILLO: Yeah, yeah, it was definitely softer out there.  The greens were a little bit more bumpy because of the rain, of course.   
I think I played very nice today, especially off the tee.  Made some good putts on the front nine and I was able to hang on on the back nine.  Shake off the bogey on the 8 and it was a good round after yesterday's round.   
 Q.  (No microphone)?  
EMILIANO GRILLO: My game is right there.  I'm making -- I made some good putts yesterday and today.  Going to be an interesting weekend.  I've never been in this situation, and I'm not afraid of it.  I'm going to go out and enjoy it.   
 Q.  How nice is it to be on the leaderboard?  
EMILIANO GRILLO: Definitely it's nice.  We want to see our names on the board.  We want to win.  We want to hold the trophy.  That is what we're here for.   
 Q.  Are you nervous at all?  Have you ever been in this situation?  
EMILIANO GRILLO: Not really.  I want to be here.  I wanted this my whole life.  I want to win a major.  I practice really hard for it and then I'm right there.  I am going to feel the nerves tomorrow, that's for sure.  Makes sense.  But I'm going to enjoy it.   
 Q.  Is there anything you can take from your win at Frys?  
EMILIANO GRILLO: Yeah, definitely.  A win is a win and it's hard to learn to win.  Some people have it, some people don't.  I think I've learned to it.  First I have to be in the situation and that's what I was on these first two days.  I have just have to manage to be in contention the last 9.   
 Q.  Talk about the four birdies on the back.  
EMILIANO GRILLO: Yeah, 12 was a great shot.  It was a very good bounce in there.  I don't know if -- line on the green.  Somehow it got very close to the hole.   
Then I get a birdie on 14 and a great putt on 15.  I did a great save on 17 that kept me going, and then on 18 I decided to hit a driver and it paid off.   
 Q.  What's been the most surprising thing about your rookie season?  
EMILIANO GRILLO: To win the first time.  It's one of those things you don't expect.  Besides that, it's just great being here on the PGA Tour.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT