WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
July 1, 2016
Emiliano Grillo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I know you shot 1-over today, but how difficult were those conditions out there, especially coming down the stretch.
EMILIANO GRILLO: Yeah, it was pretty difficult out there.  It's very windy.  The wind was doing whatever he pleased.  It was very difficult out there.  I only managed to hit four or five fairways.  I'm pleased with the score.  It's a shame the three-putt on the last.  But I'm happy with the position going into the weekend.
Q. What did you think a good score would be when you teed off today?
EMILIANO GRILLO: Yeah, everything around par out here, it's perfect.  I know yesterday was -- it couldn't be any easier than yesterday.  There was no wind at all.  There were some really easy pins out there.  But today was completely opposite.  It was really windy and there was a lot of very hard pins with wind from the left with pins on the right -- on the left.  And also with pins on the right with wind from the right.  So it was very difficult out there, especially trying to get the perfect lines out there from the tees or staying on the lower side.  It was pretty difficult.
Q. What would you have scored today on a happy, peaceful, no windy day?
EMILIANO GRILLO: Out here?
Q. Yeah.
EMILIANO GRILLO: Well, yesterday was a 67 and I thought it was pretty -- it was a very steady round.  It could have been lower, but you never know here.  You've got to play really well off the tee, and then you've got to make sure not to make mistakes from the fairway.
Q. Forget the score, but how did you play today compared to yesterday?
EMILIANO GRILLO: Oh, I don't know.  Yesterday was very steady.  Today was all over the place.  I mean, it's hard to hit fairways out here.  That's why yesterday with no wind was much, much easier, to play from the fairway and know what the ball was doing.  Today I hit some perfect shots that ended up in the bunker or in the rough.  The wind was very tricky.  That was the thing today.
Q. What's working for you the most this week?
EMILIANO GRILLO: I don't know.  Again, yesterday I played well, everything.  I shot a very easy 67, and today I worked really hard for -- in my mind it's a 70, except for the three-putt on the last.  But I worked really hard today.  I didn't feel that I played that bad.  It was just very hard out there.
Q. You're off to kind of a roller coaster start and settled down.  Did you kind of have to calm yourself down?
EMILIANO GRILLO: Yeah, you can bogey 18 holes out here if you don't take care of yourself.  I managed to make a great birdie on 7, the flag was on the left with the wind from the left and I made a great putt in there and a pretty good birdie on the 8th.  I mean, if you make a birdie out here you've got to play a perfect hole.
Q. When you hit a shot that you think is going at the flag and the wind hits it and it goes in the bunker, do you cuss in Spanish or English?
EMILIANO GRILLO: Both, so you can understand it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT