THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE
June 3, 2016
Emiliano Grillo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You're in the hunt.  That's all you can ask?
EMILIANO GRILLO: That's all I need.
Q. Just talk about the round.  Obviously, you got on a roll.
EMILIANO GRILLO: Yeah, played pretty well out there.  I was able to have some good opportunities out there.  I hit it well on the front nine and was able to make a good par on 8 that kept me going.
Just an unfortunate bogey on 16.  That hole is really hard.  And a good save on 17, and I couldn't make the putt.  It was really quick down the hill on 18.  So I'm really happy the way I handled everything the past two days.
Q. What's the challenge here?  First time here, obviously.  How tough is that playing here the first time?
EMILIANO GRILLO: The greens are really fast out there if you get yourself on the wrong side of the -- if you miss it on the wrong side then you're struggling for a par.  So if you hit it good enough, you're going to have some good putts uphill.  You know, when you're putting downhill, just try to two-putt out of there.
There's a few hard tee shots like 2 and 11, and 18 is a hard one even though it seems pretty easy.  But it's a very hard one out there.  So just keep it in play and just give yourself opportunities.
Q. You have a late tee time tomorrow.  Just your mindset going into tomorrow.  Do you have something in mind, a score?
EMILIANO GRILLO: No, not really.  I know it's going to be drier, and it's going to be harder.  Of course, it's the weekend.  It's always harder.  It's going to be a lot of people.  It's going to be -- afternoon tee times are always hard.  So just keep it in play and give myself opportunities.
Q. Emiliano, you won right out of the gate.  Does that make things easier or more difficult from the standpoint of expectations?
EMILIANO GRILLO: Both.  It makes it easier to play without the pressure of having to play for next year or the next two years.  It gives you the opportunity to get in a lot of tournaments like the Masters and THE PLAYERS and you name it.
But, yeah, my expectations were really high going into 2016, and I paid the price.  Even though I told myself to enjoy it, I wanted to play even better.  I wanted to play like I'm playing this week.  I got to a point I was getting very frustrated because I couldn't break the top 10 or something like that.
I tell myself just be patient, and if you're patient enough, then that win is going to come.
Q. Does that experience of having won, does that give you something to draw upon as you head into the weekend?
EMILIANO GRILLO: Yeah, definitely.  I know how it plays.  I know the weekends are always harder.  I know it's better to come from behind.  I'm pretty sure I'm going to sleep with the lead, and that's a positive.
Like I say, if I can just keep it in play for the weekend, I'm going to have a good opportunity.
Q. They're calling for rain tomorrow and Sunday.  How do you do in foul weather?
EMILIANO GRILLO: That's good.  It's something good.  Out here, if the course dries up, it's going to be really hard.  So if it stays a bit soft, you can attack most of the pins out there.  It's easier to play out there.  It's going to be a bit longer maybe, but you can attack a bit more.
Q. I saw your tweet earlier this week --
EMILIANO GRILLO: Let's not talk about that.  Rookie mistake, right?
Q. (No microphone)?
EMILIANO GRILLO: No, I haven't seen him all week.  Hopefully, he didn't see it.
Q. So what happened?
EMILIANO GRILLO: Well, you just ask for a drink, and you just figure it's the wrong one.
Q. Is that usually what you order?
EMILIANO GRILLO: Yeah, yeah, I'm a big fan of Diet Coke or Coke or whatever.  I'm trying to stay away from it.  So it's kind of hard.
Q. You mentioned you've been frustrated with some of the results this year.  Is there something you --
EMILIANO GRILLO: Not really.  I've been working really hard.  I've been hitting the ball pretty well.  It was just a matter of dropping some putts.  You know, I hit it pretty close this week.  Probably the longest putt today was on the 1st hole.  Besides that one, I think the longest one was on 8.  It was for par.  So I've been hitting really well.  It was just a matter of hitting good putts.
Q. You're part of a group that came into the majors at the same time, the 2011 group with Jordan and all of those guys.  How much of a camaraderie is there with you guys?  How much -- I don't know if pressure is the word -- expectations do you put on yourself, okay, we've got a good group here?
EMILIANO GRILLO: Oh, yeah.  You've got Jordan, who's No. 2 in the world.  I want to beat him, of course.  I've always wanted to beat him since I was 14 and still do.  I know it's going to be harder today than it was five or ten years ago.  I've been working really hard, and that's what I'm here for.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT