ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 17, 2016
Emiliano Grillo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Bogey-free day.  Not many golfers in the field can say that.  
EMILIANO GRILLO: Definitely.  I started playing solid after 5 and you know, everything was going my way, especially on 18 I hit the rocks and was able to hit par.  Happy the way I played today.  So, hopefully I can continue later on.   
 Q.  I was going to ask you about 18 because you hit the approach shot, we calling it looked like you liked the look of the shot.  Was that an Augusta breeze?  What happened over there?  
EMILIANO GRILLO: I have no idea.  I kind of pushed it a little bit, maybe right of what I wanted my ball but, you know, if it would have been on a good lie I think it would have been safe.  Very lucky there.  Those rocks can go anywhere, can go right, go to the water.  But, yeah, I was able to make a great up and down from the bunker.   
 Q.  Super up and down.  Now, you win early in the season.  Not coming in here in the best of form by your standards.  What clicked this morning for the bogey-free round?  
EMILIANO GRILLO: I don't know.  I've been practicing really hard.  You know, I have no idea what hasn't been paying off before today.  You know, it's not surprise for me.  I've been working really hard and hopefully it stays that way.   
 Q.  Kind of course that suits your game.  Good luck for the rest of the week.  
EMILIANO GRILLO: Thank you.   
 Q.  How did the course play?  
EMILIANO GRILLO: I think it's the easiest we're going to see in the whole week.  Tomorrow afternoon going to be a whole different game.  I'm pretty sure it's going to be windier and the greens are firming up and it's going to be drying.   
You can see that from the fairway every single shot today.  I really can't tell you how hard it's playing.  It's going to be hard on the weekend, that's for sure.   
 Q.  Every tournament you play in like the one you won earlier this year is very important.  This one has a three year exemption.  Thoughts about this one.  
EMILIANO GRILLO: They're all important, like you say.  Doesn't matter which tournament you win.  You want to win -- a win is a win, doesn't matter, if it's the Arnold Palmer or the Memorial, which they have three years, it's great.  If it's a two year, I'll take it, I'll take every single time.  You know, a win out here gets you to some very cool places.  That's where you want to be.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT