SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 20, 2015
Emiliano Grillo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  That was a very interesting performance Sunday.  
EMILIANO GRILLO: Uh-huh, definitely.   
 Q.  What did you take away from it that'll help you this week?  
EMILIANO GRILLO: A win.   
 Q.  Besides the win.  
EMILIANO GRILLO: Well, that's pretty much everything.  You know, there was a lot of confidence.  Winning out here, it's been a dream my whole life.  I feel a huge relief.  You know, I can say I'm a winner now.   
I won on the Web, I won on the Latin America Tour, but it didn't feel right.   
 Q.  This was different, wasn't it?  
EMILIANO GRILLO: Yeah, I knew what I was capable of, I just didn't get there before two days ago.  But yeah, there's a lot of confidence there.  I really can't wait for Thursday to tee it off.  I just can't wait to go and see the course now.  The weather is unbelievable out here, and it's a great week.  It's Vegas.  You know, I have my wife, my father-in-law, and pretty much my whole team right here, so we're going to enjoy a good week tonight, do a little bit of celebration with the team --   
 Q.  Did you get a chance to celebrate in Napa Sunday afternoon?  
EMILIANO GRILLO: Well, a little bit.  There was really a lot of adrenaline going on.  I did put some champagne in the trophy.  But yeah, it wasn't that much.   
 Q.  How was it different, winning Web.com or winning your other events that you had won prior?  
EMILIANO GRILLO: Well, this is the PGA TOUR.  It's a lot different.   
 Q.  Much more pressure on every shot?  
EMILIANO GRILLO: No, no, no.  I think I had more pressure before that that I didn't win a tournament.  The one in Latin America I felt a lot of pressure because it was my homeland, and this was more of a -- I don't know, this one was more exciting.  This is where I wanted to be, so I was enjoying it.  There was a big difference.   
 Q.  You said everything is kind of working for you right now with your game.  Can you expand on that a little bit?  Are you driving the ball better than you have before?  
EMILIANO GRILLO: No, I'm not -- I'm honestly not doing much different.  The course was really hard last week, even though it was really short, a lot of chances, but it was really hard to put the ball in the hole.  Everything went right for me last week.  I hit a couple pins.  I made some putts that I hit bad and they went in.  Of course we all have those putts, you hit it good and they don't go in.   
You know, you have to be lucky to win out here.   
 Q.  What expectations do you have for yourself this week, and do you use the same formula that you used --  
EMILIANO GRILLO: Yeah, I'm going to do exactly the same.  I'm going to practice today, practice tomorrow, and then just go out and tee it off and try and go as low as I can.  That's the whole idea.  I'm not thinking about Friday or Saturday or Sunday.  I'm thinking about Thursday now, and get off to a good start.   
 Q.  You're playing with two Vegas guys, Charley Hoffman and Ryan Moore.  
EMILIANO GRILLO: I have no idea.  I haven't seen the tee times.   
 Q.  We just got them.  
EMILIANO GRILLO: That's cool.   
 Q.  So you're playing with two guys who know this course very well.  Maybe they can help you a little bit in terms of showing you the way, where to hit and stuff.  
EMILIANO GRILLO: Yeah, it's going to be fun.  You know, I think I'm going to pay more attention to what they do and try to learn from them.   
 Q.  Do you think playing at altitude will impact your game at all?  
EMILIANO GRILLO: I played yesterday on another golf course.  It didn't go that far to me.  I don't know, that was yesterday after a long week, but probably it will change today.  Yeah, that will probably change today when I see how the course plays.   
 Q.  I think you're one of the few guys who this doesn't impact the new schedule, the wrap-around schedule, because you were going to play regardless because you want to get going.  But the fact that you're off to such a fast start, how does it change your season?  
EMILIANO GRILLO: Well, I was going to play five weeks before, so I was going to take next week off and play the other three, but I'm still going to play five weeks, just different places.  I'll probably be playing in Europe the last three.  We haven't decided yet.  It's not official.  But yeah, that's the idea, just to keep playing.  I'm playing good, and I want to keep it going.   
Then we're going to have a lot of weeks off, and you never know how you react after that.   
 Q.  Are you qualified for Dubai?  
EMILIANO GRILLO: Not yet.   
 Q.  So you'd have to go back?  
EMILIANO GRILLO: Mm-hmm.   
 Q.  Play where?  
EMILIANO GRILLO: China.   
 Q.  You can qualify through China?  
EMILIANO GRILLO: Mm-hmm.   
 Q.  What was the reaction back home in Argentina to your win?  Have you heard from friends and --  
EMILIANO GRILLO: Oh, yeah.  Golf is not that big back home, but my friends are really happy.  They know how it works, and they don't know much about golf, but it's not hard to see it's a big thing.   
 Q.  You've got some great boxers; they're huge athletes.  
EMILIANO GRILLO: Exactly.   
 Q.  I was going to say, I know --  
EMILIANO GRILLO: I'm not going to play golf at the MGM, but -- it's not the same.   
 Q.  You had Fabian Gomez on the green watching you on Sunday.  He won earlier this year.  What does that say to you knowing that two Argentine players are --  
EMILIANO GRILLO: Well, we're from the same city.  We're from a very poor state back home.  This is big for us.  We're going to be two people from the same city, same state, playing at the Masters.  That's a big thing for us.  I think José Coceres is from the same city.  He played lots of years ago, but two guys from the same city, for Argentina, for our city, our golf club, it's huge.   
 Q.  What did you guys talk about after that win?  
EMILIANO GRILLO: We didn't talk much.  We just had dinner at the golf club, and we didn't talk much.  It was more of a little bit of a celebration.  We'll probably talk more about it this week or next week, or maybe when it gets closer, but we're already trying to set up tee times for Monday and Tuesday at the Masters, and that's something really cool.   
 Q.  And looking forward to Olympics golf, what is your -- how do you feel about --  
EMILIANO GRILLO: Yeah, again, by the look of it, it's going to be him and I, just representing our -- not only our country but our home club, our state.  It's a huge thing.  It's completely different playing for your country, playing by yourself.  So it's going to be an interesting week.  I've played before team events, and it's really cool.  It's a good feeling.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT