BARRACUDA CHAMPIONSHIP
July 31, 2020
Emiliano Grillo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Comments about your round and how it went out there for you?
 EMILIANO GRILLO:   Yeah, I played well all day.  One lucky bounce, I hit a sprinkler, then I hit a bad -- somehow I hit it on the green and three-putted for double, but besides that I played well.  One three-putt there on the 17th, and like I said, besides those two, those kind of bad breaks, I played all right all day.  I made the ones that I had to.
 Q. When we talked earlier this week, you said you were getting adjusted to the elevation at this course.  I'm getting you're adjusted now.  How is that going?
 EMILIANO GRILLO:   Yeah, I played this tournament last year.  It's only like I think 150 feet higher than Montreux, so it's kind of the same.  It plays a bit shorter in the morning when the ball is wet and it's maybe a bit cold, but once you get around 9:00 a.m. the ball gets going again.  It's tricky when you see the flag being so far and then all of a sudden you're hitting an iron.  Besides that, it's pretty easy.
 Q. You had a good finish here last year.  What part of your game fits this Stableford format for you?
 EMILIANO GRILLO:   I mean, I like it.  The birdie counts more than the bogey discounts.  It's one of those things that you can be a bit more aggressive from the tee and from the fairway, and making a bogey is not the end of the world in a way.  Yeah, it's just being more aggressive I think is kind of my thing.
 Q. You had a good finish last week.  What do you credit to this good stretch of --
 EMILIANO GRILLO:   I've been hitting the ball really well since we came back from the break, and the putting just wasn't working.  After Memorial I went home, practiced with my coach and kind of figured things out.  It's been the putter mostly.
 Q. It's still early, but what do you have to do this weekend?
 EMILIANO GRILLO:   I think the same.  I think the same amount of points is going to get it done on the weekend, so hopefully we can repeat those two days.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT