FRYS.COM OPEN
October 18, 2015
Emiliano Grillo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Describe the emotions that are going through you right now knowing the Masters, the exemptions, and all the good stuff that comes with this.  
EMILIANO GRILLO: You say Masters, I can't believe it.  This is awesome.  This is great.  When I got the card, after the Web.com Championship, you know, I saw I was 71, 72 in the ranks.   
I told me team, Hey, look, we got a chance of getting top 50 by the end of the year.  Let's try to get it done.   
Maybe we can play the tournaments that we always wanted.  I'm really nervous right now.  You know, I just want to thank my wife, team, sponsors.  You know, without them this is not possible.  I hit the shots, but there is a lot of people behind me.   
My wife, caddie, manager, they all are always behind me and supporting me.  This is for them.   
 Q.  You win your last event on the Web.com Tour and your first event on the PGA TOUR as a card carrier.  The Masters, how does this feel?  
EMILIANO GRILLO: Say it again.   
 Q.  The Masters, baby.  
EMILIANO GRILLO: Yeah, you know, it's a dream come true.  Just being here, just being on the tour, it's great.  Everything, it's basically what I expected.   
This is awesome.  I'm enjoying every second.  Seems like the more I enjoy the better I play, so I'm going to go out and enjoy the Masters.  You never know.  I'm trying to follow my good friends Jordan and Justin.  It's been great seeing them on TV.   
Just trying to do some good stuff.   
 Q.  Got to ask you the tough question:  You missed a three-footer in Puerto Rico.  You missed that short one here.  Tell me what you were thinking about going back to the tee here at 18.  
EMILIANO GRILLO: Yeah, it is really hard.  The difference between this one and the other one is this one, I hit it good.  The other one was a complete miss.  This one I hit it good.  My caddie, Are you 100%?  Yeah, I'm 150.  I really want to win this.   
I told him, There is a chance.  Like I say, luckily Kevin putted for 5, missed it, and then it was more of hitting a good putt and getting into the hole than anything.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT