FRYS.COM OPEN
October 17, 2015
Emiliano Grillo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How would you assess that round today?  
EMILIANO GRILLO: Yeah, it was a solid one.  Got out with a slow, you know, start, but the end I ended up with a little bit of fireworks.   
So, yeah, really happy with the way I played today, the way I'm playing.  Hopefully I can do the same tomorrow.   
 Q.  A lot of low scores out there today.  Of a little bit different than yesterday.  What would you say is the biggest difference?  
EMILIANO GRILLO: I know.  It's a Saturday.  Everybody plays well on a Saturday, seems.  Less players, the greens are better, and, you know, we all play on the same wave.   
The course asks you to be aggressive a little bit, but you have to be very smart out there.  If you play smart you can score well.   
 Q.  Were you aware that you almost hit Rory McIlroy on the 17th green?  
EMILIANO GRILLO: Yeah, everybody agree that they were going up from the green to the guy standing on the tee.  We thought they were waiting for us to hit.  I was first, and, you know, I kind of heard something that I almost hit him, but I really apologize.   
Yeah, it was a bit of miscommunication over there.  Hopefully he's all right and he continues to play well as always.   
 Q.  And looking ahead to Sunday after playing this course three days, what is the biggest thing you need to concentrate on for tomorrow?  
EMILIANO GRILLO: Out here you got to play well off the tee.  You got to play from the fairway.  If not, you can get some bogeys out there.   
I think the main key is staying patient and hitting some solid shots.   
 Q.  Didn't take you long to get in the mix.  Well played out there today.  7-under par 65.  
EMILIANO GRILLO: Yeah, thank you.  Great day out there.  I hit the ball well.  I made some key putts out there.   
You know, great round.   
 Q.  You've played a lot of golf, and we talked couple weeks ago.  Now a member of the PGA TOUR.  What's it been like out here in your first week?  
EMILIANO GRILLO: Yeah, it's been great.  You're going to see this smile on my face every time you say I'm a PGA member.  Yeah, it's been great.  Enjoying every second of it.   
Hopefully I can continue with some good playing and keep enjoying the moment.   
 Q.  What's been the key for you this week?  
EMILIANO GRILLO: I don't know.  Just been playing my own game and trying to stay focused.  I made some good putts out there today that gave me my round today.  Good shot on 16 gave me an eagle.   
But I wasn't able to play the par-5s as good as I would've liked.  If I play the par-5s good tomorrow, it will be -- I will have a good chance.   
 Q.  Well played.  Good luck tomorrow.  
EMILIANO GRILLO: Thank you.   
 Q.  So they waved you up?  
EMILIANO GRILLO: Everybody was waving up the guys behind, but we thought -- everybody thought they were gone or waiting for us.  That's why we hit it.   
There is nobody from the tour there calling us.  We just thought they were done or just mark it so we could go ahead.   
 Q.  Did you feel like you hit that one good?  
EMILIANO GRILLO: Yeah, I hit that one good.  It was a good line.   
But, yeah, I don't know.   
 Q.  What do you think the key to your success has been?  You won a couple weeks ago obviously and it's carried over here in your first start.  
EMILIANO GRILLO: I think I been doing the right things.  That's it.  Nothing really special about it.  I been just consistent about my game.  I been playing good in almost every area of my game.  That's really important out here.   
 Q.  Couple of rookies up there on the leaderboard.  You, Harold, what do you think that says about the depth you're putting out on the Web.Com Tour?  
EMILIANO GRILLO: I don't know.  Every year is kind of the same.  You're going to see rookies every year playing well.  That's just how it is.  Not going to be a year where you're going to see just the old guys playing well.   
Every year going to have some good young players out there.  That's for sure.   
 Q.  Not to belabor it, but did you believe that of all the people you almost hit it was Rory?  
EMILIANO GRILLO: Yeah, I know.  That would have been bad.  (Laughter.)   
Yeah, a lot of people out there, but...   
Yeah, good aim.  He's got a bright shirt.  That's why.   
 Q.  Did you say anything to him?  
EMILIANO GRILLO: No, I didn't know.  If I can find him now I think I need to apologize.   
 Q.  Did you hear his response?  He said it would've put me out of my misery.  
EMILIANO GRILLO: Yeah, I don't know.  No, I really apologize.  I didn't know.   
 Q.  At what point did you realize it was him?  Somebody told you?  
EMILIANO GRILLO: No, they just told me here.  Somebody say something, but I just thought it wasn't even close.  I don't know.  Seemed that it was pretty close, so...   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT