DUBAI DUTY FREE IRISH OPEN HOSTED BY THE RORY FOUNDATION
May 28, 2015
Emiliano Grillo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  EMILIANO GRILLO:   It's quite good.   I played great all day.   I tried not to get in trouble out here, which is very hard, and I managed to do that.   A couple of 3‑putts in the round that cost me a couple of bogeys, but overall it's a great round.  
   
 Q.   We saw a beautiful chip at 18 to a matter of inches, but you better tell us the bigger picture.   How did you birdie 18 when the rain was coming in pretty much horizontally and the wind really picked up?  
EMILIANO GRILLO:   Yeah, I had to hurry up to hit the second shot because I knew the rain was coming and then after that we would have had 10 minutes after the rain passed and it was perfect.   It was beautiful, and even better with my chip shot.  
   
 Q.   You did wait.   That's sensible.   
EMILIANO GRILLO:   Yeah.   It was a very hard rain.   We all had to wait.  
   
 Q.   How do you fancy links golf?   Clearly the evidence today is you take to it and enjoy the creativity that's involved.   
EMILIANO GRILLO:   Yeah, it's nice to be out here playing the links.   We don't have these kind of golf courses down in South America, so I had to get used to it when I first got here, and you know, I love it.   It's a great thing.   You have to play many different shots, and you have to be on top of your game to have a good round, especially on these conditions.  
   
 Q.   When you say have to get used to it, did you immediately like it or were your first thoughts how on earth do I play this kind of course?  
EMILIANO GRILLO:   Yeah, I've always seen it on TV, but it wasn't that hard to, you know, figure out how to play.   It was just more of around the greens and having to figure out how to make those chip shots, or you know, the greens are usually slower, or you know, there's so many different things than what we play week to week.  
   
 Q.   How did you bounce back so quickly after Wentworth on Sunday?  
EMILIANO GRILLO:   I played a round on Monday for the U.S. Open qualifier.   Just short by one shot, and that was a hard one.   Yeah, it was only a bad day on Saturday, but you know, it's golf.   You're going to get those and gotta keep going.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT