BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 22, 2015
Emiliano Grillo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Describe the shot on 18.   
EMILIANO GRILLO:   Yeah, it was a great swing.   It was a 5‑wood, I didn't hit it well all day.   Perfect 3‑iron, hit on the sweet spot and it went right at it.   I don't know how it didn't go in.   
   
 Q.   The putt at 15, that was a nice long one.   
EMILIANO GRILLO:   It was a weird putt because I had a fringe behind my backswing and I hit it good.   It was pure and breaking all the time and it went in.   I found the hole.   
   
 Q.   I have a statistic made up for you, demonstrates how well you've played this year.   You've played nine tournaments, third is your best finish, three Top‑10s, no missed cuts.   You haven't missed a cut for 17, 18 tournaments and been in terrific form.   What's been the key to that form?  
EMILIANO GRILLO:   Yeah, I've been hitting it well.   My stats for the last four years, been on the Top‑10 in greens in regulation, and I knew that the only thing I needed to adjust was the putting and I've been working a lot on that and it's been paying off.  
   
 Q.   You left your hometown in Argentina when you were 14 to pursue your golf in Buenos Aries, and then you went to the David Leadbetter school.   It's been a tremendous journey, but you must feel all that hard work has been worthwhile?  
EMILIANO GRILLO:   It definitely is.   I've been working since I was ten years old, and you know, it's finally paying off.   It's right where I want to be and I'm enjoying it, every second of it.  
   
 Q.   What about the fact that you haven't won; is that niggling away at you?   
EMILIANO GRILLO:   It is a little bit.   Like I say, I'm enjoying the moment, playing well, being in contention is what I need to win and I've been doing that.   One friend says, if you keep knocking, somebody is going to open.  
   
 Q.   Talk us through 18, that was majestic.   
EMILIANO GRILLO:   Yeah, good tee shot, perfectly set for a 5‑wood.   A little bit downwind and 255 yards and I hit it pure, right in the middle.   It went a little bit left of where I was aiming but I had a great result.  
   
 Q.   A second eagle at the back nine, as well as a lovely putt at 15.   
EMILIANO GRILLO:   I made a great putt on 15 and on 17 for birdie, both, and it got me going.   I was lucky enough to finish with a great shot.  
   
 Q.   Special to card a 65 around here?  
EMILIANO GRILLO:   Yeah, it's my first time making the cut in this tournament and I'm really happy.   I've been making a lot of cuts and arriving here, I knew that I didn't have a good record, and making the cut.   And now having a great round:   The past two years, I didn't shoot any rounds under par and this year, I shoot 7‑under par which is pretty good out here.   
   
 Q.   You've had all these Top‑10 finishes in a row but there's something more about your game this season, isn't there?   
EMILIANO GRILLO:   Yeah, like I said, many times before, I've been working a lot on putting, trying different things and it's been paying off.   
   
 Q.   Lovely to see your name at the top of this leaderboard, isn't it?  
EMILIANO GRILLO:   Yeah, it's a big one.   The bigger, the better.  
   
 Q.   You've been saying for a while, you said the word "desperate" to me in Morocco.   Are you trying to couch those expectations, the aims over the weekend?   
EMILIANO GRILLO:   Yeah, it's only two days so far, and here it's probably the longest week of the year.   It's a big event and there's a lot of things going on.   There's still two days left and it's a big event, so you've got to take it slow.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT