THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE
May 31, 2019
Emiliano Grillo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  I know that wasn't the finish you wanted, but you're in pretty good shape for 36 holes.  You must feel pretty good about your game right now?  
EMILIANO GRILLO: Yeah, definitely.  I played great for 17 1/2 holes, pretty much.  Just on 18, it could have been maybe a 4 in there, but it is what it is.  But I played absolutely great yesterday and today.  I'm happy where my game is at.  Just got to keep going.   
 Q.  What did you hit on 15 when you made eagle?  
EMILIANO GRILLO: It was like a 2-iron hybrid.  It was perfect.  It landed like pin-high and rolled almost all the way to the back.  I had a good line.  I could see Jim's ball was like six feet behind mine, and it was perfect.  He had a good lie, just couldn't get to the hole.  It was easy after that.   
 Q.  Greens still pure out there today?  
EMILIANO GRILLO: Yeah, very.  Super soft.  You've got to be careful not to spin it back off the green a bunch of times.  Most of the time you're drawing an extra club and trying to not spin it back.   
 Q.  What are you doing this week that you haven't been doing?  
EMILIANO GRILLO: I'm just holing putts.  Every time I come here, I can see the breaks a bit easier than most of the other courses.  But I always liked it here, everything is perfect.  For me every time I step in Muirfield Village something clicks.   
 Q.  Have you ever had a bad day here?  
EMILIANO GRILLO: Oh, I have bad days.   
 Q.  It makes it sounds like this is --  
EMILIANO GRILLO: No, I've had bad days.  I just enjoy bad days are a good morning here.   
 Q.  One of those bad days in 2016 when the rain delay happened, waiting for the third round?  
EMILIANO GRILLO: Yeah, those finish holes I didn't play good on the last round.  It was kind of windy.  That is then the year after that I played bad on Sunday, as well.  And I've done well except for one round.  It's one of those that it was windy, it was tough conditions, and I just let the tournament get away.   
 Q.  Other golf courses with putting, is everything sight with you?  
EMILIANO GRILLO: Yeah, you know what?  I kind of like the golf courses where you can see the breaks easier, I don't know why.   
 Q.  What do you mean by that?  
EMILIANO GRILLO: I don't know why, but I hit it better when I see the breaks easier.   
 Q.  The breaks, okay.  
EMILIANO GRILLO: It's one of those things.  Golf, it's basically to the eye for me.   
 Q.  You've had some Presidents Cup experience, we're partway through the season, a good performance here, how much would that excite you to make progress toward that team again?  
EMILIANO GRILLO: It's definitely on my mind.  I think I need to step it up a little bit.  And this week there's a lot of points and all that.  It could lift my name up the board in the rankings.  Still a long way.  There's six months to go to the tournament.  So I have plenty of time to get my game around.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT