COMMERCIAL BANK QATAR MASTERS
January 22, 2015
Emiliano Grillo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What do you think of round two to under to 8‑under at the halfway stage?  
EMILIANO GRILLO:   I'm in a good position for the weekend.   That's very important, after two days, and I have two more days to keep playing.   I'm trying to improve my swing.   Like I say yesterday‑‑ today was pretty much the same.   I kept it in a safe place and no bogeys today and I'm really happy with that.  
   
 Q.   You said on day one that it's good scoring in the circumstances when you're not entirely happy with the game?  
EMILIANO GRILLO:   Yeah, of course.   That's about the pro life.   You have to go out and play with what you've got on that day and try to score with maybe a few bad drivers and maybe a few missed putts.   But it is just like that, you have to go with what you have that day and try to shoot a good score.  
   
 Q.   Is that something you've learned over time; that you get used to that with experience?  
EMILIANO GRILLO:   I think it's one of the things that you learn out here.   You're never going to play well every single week.   It's pretty much impossible.   So you have to, the weeks you play good, you have to try your best and the weeks that you don't, you still have to try your best.   
   
 Q.   I guess we all want it to be perfect, but it rarely is?  
EMILIANO GRILLO:   Well, you know, we see it every week, everybody tries their best and they play good for three days and then the last day they go down or the other way around.   
So it's a very interesting sport and you have to keep learning every day.   
   
 Q.   What was your alarm call this morning, because this is one of the earlier starts on The European Tour.   
EMILIANO GRILLO:   I don't wake up very early.   Not much time before.   I usually go, like here, I did 4.45, so two hours and 15 minutes before.   It was very, very early.  
   
 Q.   Does that mean an afternoon of relaxation or are you going to work as well?   
EMILIANO GRILLO:   I'm going to try to hit a few balls and work on my swing and then I'm going to go take a nap and kind of a late dinner and be rested for tomorrow.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT