ISPS HANDA PERTH INTERNATIONAL
October 20, 2012
Emiliano Grillo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Can you talk us through your round a little bit?   It was quite a mixed round out there for you?
EMILIANO GRILLO:   Well, I played good on the front nine.   Made some good putts for par, and a couple good ones for birdie, and I don't know, just lost a little bit‑‑ I don't know what happened on the back nine.   I had four bogeys and they were pretty much all very good shots.   Just the one on 10, it was a missed shot right and then couldn't get up‑and‑down.   Then 11 was a very bad bogey.   Then the 3‑putt on the last hole. 
But I have a good chance tomorrow, I'm playing in the group in front of the last tomorrow, all of the people is going to be with them and they are going to have the pressure. 

Q.   Being in the leading group today, were you feeling any pressure? 
EMILIANO GRILLO:   Not really.   I felt a little bit of pressure after the two bogeys.   So Jason was playing very good and we were tired, so I had to‑‑ I told myself, I had to make a couple birdies to get a couple shots ahead. 
But I have a good chance for tomorrow, so I'm happy for it.

Q.   And what goes through your mind after you bogeyed the 18th there? 
EMILIANO GRILLO:   Well, I mean, I just thought‑‑ like I said, I have a good chance for tomorrow, and I have to take myself down and I've played well and happy with my results so far.

Q.   Have you found the crowds supporting you well?
EMILIANO GRILLO:   Well, you have two guys playing on TV all the time, two guys in the Top‑50 in the world, so they are pretty much going to get cheered more than me but they support.

Q.   And being in contention heading into the final round, obviously you said yesterday it's something quite new to you.   How do you prepare for tomorrow?
EMILIANO GRILLO:   Just going to go have a good dinner and then going to go to bed early, I'm very tired.   So just that, and tomorrow, practice before going up and try to make some birdies.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT