ISPS HANDA PERTH INTERNATIONAL
October 19, 2012
Emiliano Grillo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  STEVE TODD:     Many thanks for joining us again.   Great to see you back in here, 67 today, obviously not probably the ending you wanted but before that, there was some great golf out there.
EMILIANO GRILLO:   Like you say, I managed to have a good round anyway.   I think I hit it better yesterday than today but a couple eagles and a hole‑out from the bunker on 9 helped a lot. 
STEVE TODD:   Take us through that eagle. 
EMILIANO GRILLO:   I hit a drive in the right rough and had a very good lie, and perfect distance, 105, hole, sand wedge and it went in. 
STEVE TODD:   Straight in or spun back.
EMILIANO GRILLO:   I think the pitchmark was pin‑high and I hit the ball six feet long and came back.
STEVE TODD:   And second one on the front nine, as well.
EMILIANO GRILLO:   I eagled the third hole from the bunker, the par5. 
STEVE TODD:   Matteo Manassero slightly a little bit younger than yourself, he Tweeted before, it's great to see his friend, you, playing so well here in Perth; great to see the youngsters on Tour.   Just talk about your friendship with him and being so young, playing on the Tour.
EMILIANO GRILLO:   Yeah, we get along pretty well.   As you say we are pretty much the same age.   I don't know, we try to spend as much time as I can with him because he already won twice on the Tour and he's the youngest player on the Tour.   I mean, everybody wants to have him as a mirror, and he's one of the few guys that I have as a mirror. 
So I try to copy his putting and his short game.   He's an amazing player and a very good friend.
STEVE TODD:   And from watching him, does that get you to believe that you can go on the same this weekend and do it? 
EMILIANO GRILLO:   Yeah, it's hard for the first win but he's already done it twice, so why not me. 

Q.   How is your feeling from the travel‑‑
EMILIANO GRILLO:   Well, it's tough, because I have pretty much a 12‑hour difference between here and home, so I'm still getting used to; this morning, I woke up a little bit tired, because I only had like six hours of sleep.   I'm used to it. 
Tomorrow I'll be better than today and I just have to go have a good dinner and have a good rest. 

Q.   If you can win, what would it mean?
EMILIANO GRILLO:   At the moment, I'm still trying to secure my card for next year, but it would be a big step.   A lot of things would change, so I'm looking forward to it. 

Q.   When you saw the eagle on 9, what goes through your head? 
EMILIANO GRILLO:   I didn't see it, because you cannot see it.   You pretty much cannot see the green from down there.   But as soon as I heard the crowd, I was, you know, going‑‑ I was very happy with my caddie.   I mean, having a hole in 2 feels great, no matter if it's a par 3 or a par 4.   

Q.   Of your best shots in your career, where did that one rank?
EMILIANO GRILLO:   I've had some good shots from inside the trees, and go three or four feet, actually a better shot than that one that went in.   I've had a hole‑in‑one and a couple eagles.   But it's just a sand wedge from a hundred yards. 

Q.   How have you handled‑‑
EMILIANO GRILLO:   Well, just go shot by shot, that's the main goal.   Since you start the week, you have to go shot by shot.   You cannot think on the third hole when you're playing the second hole.   So it's kind of hard.   It's the hardest thingin golf probably, but it's the best thing to do. 

Q.   The fact that everyone will be watching you‑‑
EMILIANO GRILLO:   Well, I had a lot of people today.   I was fine with it.   I kind of like the golf course, and kind of seems to suit my game.   So, I mean, I don't see any issue with that. 

Q.   How often have you been leading heading into the weekend? 
EMILIANO GRILLO:   Not many.   As a professional, probably my first time.   I was close in the Top‑10s a couple times, but I've led a professional event as an amateur, but this is completely different. 

Q.   When young players come on Tour‑‑
EMILIANO GRILLO:   Yeah, I mean, definitely, you can see a lot of guys under 25 that they win on The European Tour and the PGA TOUR every week. 
And I think that the thing is, as an amateur, everybody just plays and practice like a professional.   You can see a lot of‑‑ like me, like I dropped school at 16 years old and so since then, I just play golf.   So it's a good thing, definitely. 

Q.   What professional events did you play as an amateur? 
EMILIANO GRILLO:   The Argentine Open in like 2009 I think. 

Q.   The other players, the other 25‑year‑olds‑‑
EMILIANO GRILLO:   Well, it's a big difference between 20 and 25.   There's a lot of maturity in between.   I think it's very hard to be where I am at 20 years old, so I'm enjoying it.   But I think the top of the game, it starts at 25. 

Q.   Any expectations? 
EMILIANO GRILLO:   Well, I just want to have a good week.   My goal this week was having a good one to keep my card for next year.   I mean, if I can win, awesome. 
STEVE TODD:   Thanks for joining us and good luck tomorrow.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT