ISPS HANDA PERTH INTERNATIONAL
October 18, 2012
Emiliano Grillo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  STEVE TODD:   6‑under par around here is a fantastic start.   If you can just share with us your thoughts on the opening round.  
EMILIANO GRILLO:   Well it was fine, hit a lot of fairways out there, that's very important on this golf course and a lot of greens and then the ones that I missed, I get up‑and‑down.   So I'm just next to the green.   So it was a good round overall.   
STEVE TODD:   You started with the eagle on 15, that really got the round going.   Tell us about that and then your other birdies.  
EMILIANO GRILLO:   Well, it was just perfect hole.   Driver, 4‑iron, pin‑high, ten feet.   
Then missed a short putt on the next hole and birdied 18.     Then I had three birdies on the back nine.   
STEVE TODD:   It's an important week for a lot of guys who are on that level of trying to keep their card, and you're certainly in that position.   I'm guessing you were hoping for a big week this week.   
EMILIANO GRILLO:   As you know, there's not many tournaments left, so trying to make as much ground as I can this week.   Trying to get a Pro‑Am exemption in another event and play the last one in South Africa.   
   
 Q.   How do you think ‑‑  
EMILIANO GRILLO:   Q‑School last year.   It was very nice to get my card through Q‑School last year, last September.   It's been a great year so far.   I'm enjoying it.   Always wanted to play in the US PGA TOUR, but getting my card for The European Tour was a big thing for me.   
   
 Q.   Inaudible.  
EMILIANO GRILLO:     No, no‑‑ well, at the moment, yeah.   
   
 Q.   You had an outstanding amateur year‑‑ how did you get come into the game; family, caddie?  
EMILIANO GRILLO:     Well, it wasn't a great amateur career.   I don't think it was bad.   I think I made the right decisions always.   It wasn't hard to make the change.   I just found a caddie last year and I got used to it.   
   
 Q.   Playing in Argentina?   
EMILIANO GRILLO:     Yeah, a lot, a lot, I played almost six years and I played the World Am a couple years ago.   
   
 Q.   For the rest of the week ‑‑  
EMILIANO GRILLO:     Well, it's going to get windy, for sure.   Today was perfect.   It's good to have a good round on a good day.   But it's going to get windy and you've just got to play very good from the tee, hit good drivers, and probably the hardest thing on this golf course are the par3s.   
So if you play the par3s here and you hit fairways, you're going to go well.   
   
 Q.   What's got you interested in golf in the first place?   
EMILIANO GRILLO:     Well, my dad used to play, and then when you're like a little kid, your parents always want to introduce you to a couple sports and golf was around, and I like it.   
   
 Q.   Was your dad any good?   
EMILIANO GRILLO:   No.   I studied with a coach and then changed a couple coaches since then.   
He just likes going on Wednesday and when I finish the tournaments, he doesn't like to follow me through the week.   
   
 Q.   Where are you on the Money List‑‑  
EMILIANO GRILLO:   113.   Well, definitely.   I expected to have a good week in the Portugal Masters last week and missed the cut.   Unfortunately I had to fly for 20 hours to get here, and I got a little bit‑‑ a couple issues with the Visa to get here, so I was able to fly on Monday and got here on Tuesday night, midnight.   
   
 Q.   Which other tournaments do you then start, there were two‑‑  
EMILIANO GRILLO:   I just have‑‑ Hong Kong and South Africa ‑‑ just South Africa at the moment.   Just two tournaments left.   
This year I was planning to try to stay here, and probably next year probably going to try to get on the Web.com tour.   
STEVE TODD:   Thanks for joining us.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT