FORT WORTH INVITATIONAL
May 27, 2018
Emiliano Grillo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Great year so far.  Just another top 10 for you.  How do you assess a week like this and how it's going to help you?  
EMILIANO GRILLO: Well, it's been a great week, that is for sure.  Just had to fight the two guys who are top 10 in the world.  They showed out today.  7-, 8-under today, that's kind of hard to beat.   
I did everything I could out there.   
 Q.  Great week for you.  What an outstanding week on the greens.  Is this the best you've ever putted?  
EMILIANO GRILLO: I think so, yeah.  Well, at least on tour.  Yeah, it's been great.  I love this course.  My past result doesn't show that, but I was expecting a week like this, to be honest.   
I been putting well, playing well, hitting it well, so...   
Next week is another one of my favorites, so I'm looking forward to that.   
 Q.  Just to give you some numbers:  You had 6 fairways, 12 greens, had only 24 putts; made 148 feet 7 inches in putts; 21 birdies; and you gained ten and a half strokes on the field with your putter.  
EMILIANO GRILLO: Not like Web.  I was trying to beat that, but that's a hard one.  Yeah, I mean, you know, I hit it better than that.  I was just missing in the right spots, and when I misses on the wrong spot I was able to get up and down.  I was able to miss it in the bunker, short side in the bunker, but the bunkers out here are perfect so I was able to get up and down every time from there.   
 Q.  Obviously Justin with a great round today.  Made it tough for anybody to catch him.  Talk about what you were able to do.  
EMILIANO GRILLO: Yeah, I was able to put a solid round like I need to do.  Like you say, it's hard comparing to these two guys.  You know, they played even better than I did.  I thought I played very well, but they did a couple strokes better than I did.   
It's a very positive week for me.  Keep adding points.  I'm going to be in the U.S. Open, which was one my goals going into this week.  I'm happy with everything.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible.)  
EMILIANO GRILLO: Well, it's always nice to get a good finish, especially I was trying to catch that second place.  It's one of those things.  I did everything I could out there.   
Wasn't enough.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible.)  
EMILIANO GRILLO: Oh, this is one of my favorites.  May is my favorite month here on tour with The PLAYERS.  Now it's going to be back in March.  This week and next week it's two of my favorites weeks out here that I look forward to.   
So it's one of my favorite venues, and I look forward to coming back next year and do a couple shots better.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT