FORT WORTH INVITATIONAL
May 26, 2018
Emiliano Grillo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. The Horrible Horseshoe that everybody talks about, that stretch of holes on 3, 4, and 5, today was the first time you played it at even par.  How critical is success in that stretch to doing well?
EMILIANO GRILLO: Well, yeah, you want to start off 1 and 2 make a couple birdies, and then just hold on those three holes.  You want to make par on those.  If you're lucky, sneak a birdie out of there.  But you're trying not to play over par on those three holes.
Once you get through those, you know, there are opportunities after that.
Q. What have you learned about your game, this course, in these first three rounds that can help you have success tomorrow?
EMILIANO GRILLO: I love this place.  It's suits my game pretty well.  I just got to go out there and play the same way I been playing these two days.  Got to make more putts.  Today wasn't the case as the last two days.
I'm going to try to do that tomorrow.
Q. Continuation of what's been going on the first two days?
EMILIANO GRILLO: A little bit.  I hit the ball quite good today; just wasn't able to make putts today.  That was the big difference between the last few days and today.
My pace was off and I was trying to sneak some putts in there.  I was able to make the par saves.
Q. How would you describe Justin's play and the prospect of four shots back?
EMILIANO GRILLO: Well, he's top 10 in the world, so everything he does he does it pretty well.  You know, he does his own thing.  Like I say, he's top 10 in the world.  Nothing wrong with his game.
Q. Seems very in control this week or...
EMILIANO GRILLO: Well, yeah.  I mean, I think he miss a couple shots in there, but he was able to miss it on the right spot.  When he miss the driver he was able to get it on the green somehow.  Then he played pretty well.  Just one three-putt.  That was it.
Q. (Indiscernible.)
EMILIANO GRILLO: No, I mean, the greens were a bit quicker today and it was the last tee times, so we're going to get a lot of spike marks and footprints in there.
It's kind of hard to make putts in the afternoon, and today was the case for me.  My paces was off all day.  It was either short or long, and I left a lot right in the mouth of hole.  That's kind of painful.
Q. Tell us how you been playing the last few months compared to 2015 when you won The Web and the Safeway back to back.
EMILIANO GRILLO: That was a hot run in there.  I played -- on 2016 I played the majors very well.  I played the big tournaments very well.  I was in contention after two, three days in most of the big events.
I think, you know, I wanted to do better.  I pushed for it.  Some of the tournaments I end up being, you know, 50 or 60 just because I wanted to play -- I wanted to play well so badly.
That played against me, so I learned from that.  In that rookie year I learned that.
Q. You mentioned Justin Rose being one of the top players in the world.  That said, you're four strokes back of the lead heading into Sunday.  How do you try to reach that?
EMILIANO GRILLO: Well, he's in the lead on a Sunday.  Doesn't matter where you're playing.  He's got to go out and shoot under par.  He's got 50 guys behind him trying to reach him, and I'm one of those.
I just got to go out and do what he did today on those first five, six holes and try to get him in the early holes.
Q. Does it change your approach, your attack?
EMILIANO GRILLO: No, not really.  I just know I have to play under par.  I have to play my best round of golf tomorrow.  Doesn't matter in I'm 60 or in this the lead, it doesn't change.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT