DUBAI OPEN
December 19, 2014
Simon Yates
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. That must have felt like the old days.   
    SIMON YATES:   Yeah, first 12 holes I played superb golf.   Didn't miss a green, just hit a lot of really good shots.   And then towards the end‑‑ I changed my grip on the range today, which helped a lot.   I've been losing some shots to the right, so I felt, well, I'll change my grip a bit.   It was just like the old ball flight, as well, just hitting it a strong ball flight and stuff, and then towards the end just a little bit nervy.   And then 17 I hit it in the wrong spot and the wrong bunker.   Hit it out on the green 15 feet, and I putted down the hill four feet short and missed it, double.   But other than that, everything was really good.  
   
 Q.   You're still right up there on the leaderboard.   
    SIMON YATES:   Exactly, so can't complain.  
   
 Q.   What's been working for you these last couple of days?  
    SIMON YATES:   Nothing really.   See, ever since I had my operation five years ago, I've never sort of had the same feeling of ball‑striking on my wrist.   But today honestly was just like the old days, just the way it flew and the way it came out, just my strength and my grip.   I'll be trying that the next couple of days and see if it works.   If it works, it works, if it doesn't, it doesn't.   It's nice to be up there and contending for the lead after two days.  
   
 Q.   You must be quite confident for the weekend after that round.   
    SIMON YATES:   Yeah, I mean, I was just a bit‑‑ on the way home I was in a few‑‑ I'm going to say slight shots in the wrong places and whatever, but overall I can't complain.   Just a shame I doubled 17.   Just hit it in the wrong spot, bunker left, deep bunker, and you don't want to leave it back in the bunker, so you make sure you get it out 15 feet, and just three‑putt, and it was a bit of a bummer.   Yeah, I putted well all day today, and yeah, just doing a little bit different, because that's always been the problem with my game is my putting has never been the best part.   But today it worked well, and hopefully it works tomorrow because that's where you make your score.   If you're a good putter you can make a score.   
   
 Q.   A lot of people have been talking about the wind in the afternoon, how it picks up.   Have you noticed any change morning rounds to afternoon?  
    SIMON YATES:   Today there wasn't much.   There was hardly anything.   It didn't really affect it, maybe a one‑club, half‑club wind.   Nothing much.   When we teed off it started blowing up a little bit, and I thought, here we go, we're going to get some 20 mile‑an‑hour winds on the bad side of the draw, but nothing happened, so it wasn't bad.   
   
 Q.   What will it be important for you to do tomorrow?  
    SIMON YATES:   Stronger grip, hit it hard.   That's all I say.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT