HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 9, 2007
Simon Yates
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  First of all, great round, tell us a bit about it.   
 SIMON YATES:  I played really, really good.  I hit fairways.  I hit a lot of greens like yesterday, I think I missed two greens yesterday and two greens today.  So tee-to-green, I've been playing really nicely.   
 I think if you're hitting the fairways then it makes it a lot easier.  The greens are perfect.  The golf course, it's a really, really good golf course, very fair.  You see everything in front of you.  I didn't have a practise round, just teed it up on Thursday, arrived Wednesday.   
 And yeah, it's a course that suits my eye.  Like last week in Singapore, I missed the cut three years in a row there and nothing suits my eye there.  But here, I hit a lot of fairways and just feel good over the ball when standing and looking at the golf course.   
 No, it's one of my favourites I've played in Asia.  So only two more rounds to go, so let's see how we go.   
  
  Q.  A little under the radar, how did it feel going into tomorrow?  You have a couple big guys hanging around you.  Your thoughts for tomorrow?   
 SIMON YATES:  Just play the same as the last couple of days, hit fairways and just do what I've been doing.  But I mean, on the first round, I didn't putt well yesterday for 2-under.  I played really, really nicely but I didn't putt well.   
 Today coming in, I holed some nice putts.  I got unlucky actually at 11.  I hit it over this bunker and there's one little yardage tree and I'm just straight under it so I had to chip out sideways and holed a 15-footer to save for my bogey.  I hit a good shot towards the green, hit in the bunker right up the against the lip, so I had no shot.   
 Yeah, I'm really, really happy with the way I made four birdies in the last six holes.  It was good.   
  
  Q.  How slick are the greens?   
 SIMON YATES:  Oh, yeah, they are very fast.  We don't normally play on greens as quick as this.  Throughout the year I've been putting well, but I've lost confidence with the putter.  Today I wasn't so tentative with the putter.  I thought, "All right, just go for it.  Don't start lagging everything short."  And today I stroked the ball a lot better and I felt good, a lot better.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT