U.S. MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 14, 2016
Dan Sullivan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  So that was quite a run he made at you there.  
DAN SULLIVAN: It was.  I probably gave him some hope on 11 and 12 when I made some unfortunate bogeys and he made a really good birdie on 13, and an unbelievable eagle essentially on 14.  So, yeah, it definitely took the match for being cleanly in my favor to, okay, now I've got to start playing.   
 Q.  How close was he on 14?  
DAN SULLIVAN: He was probably 4 feet.  So, I mean, he drove it off, and hit driver off the tee and the group was already on the green.  I guess they rolled it up.  When they said they had to mark his ball, so it was obviously pretty close.   
 Q.  How about winning six holes in a row.  That doesn't happen too often in match play?  
DAN SULLIVAN: No, it doesn't.  He gave me a few holes and I made a couple of good birdies.  I made a really good par save on the downhill.   
 Q.  Was it 5, the downhill par-3?  
DAN SULLIVAN: Yeah, that was the turning point.   
 Q.  How far was that putt?  
DAN SULLIVAN: Probably made about a 12-footer, and he was inside of me and he missed.  So that was definitely a switch.  He was just off the green, and I was chipping from kind of in the rough just on the other side of the hazard.  So he definitely looked to be in better position.  So making that putt was important.   
 Q.  Then you birdied the next par-3, the 7th?  
DAN SULLIVAN: I did.  I hit it in there about 20 feet, and I really didn't even care what he did.  I told my caddie I'm making this putt and I did.   
 Q.  What club did you hit into 7?  
DAN SULLIVAN: I hit 7-iron.  Just gave it a little bit of cornering in right to left, so I just kind of started at the hole and let it fall a little right.  Like I said, it was 18-20 feet.   
 Q.  You're no stranger to this championship, and you've gotten far before, but this is the semifinals now.  How exciting is this?  
DAN SULLIVAN: It's great.  I told myself yesterday, I'm just going to come out, play hard, have fun and enjoy the experience.  USGA events are so much fun for people like me.  The fact that I'm still playing is a great experience, even continuing.   
 Q.  What was your expectation coming in here?  
DAN SULLIVAN: For me it's always getting to match play and then just see what happens.  I mean, I don't want to come in and say I should get to the quarterfinals or round of 16 or whatever.  I've gotten in the round of 16 twice before, and just haven't played well when I needed to.  It was really important once I got to the round of 16 and continued to play well and make people beat you instead of beating yourself.  Because I think in match play that tends to be, especially as you get further and further and fatigue becomes more of an issue.  I think making fewer mistakes is key.   
 Q.  Other folks have had trouble fitting their eye to this Old Course.  Obviously it's not bothering you.  What's good about it?  
DAN SULLIVAN: I just like the kind of straight out ahead of you look to it.  There are a couple of tee shots that are comfortable for me.  16, which I kind of hit a good one today, then 8, I finally raise the white flag and hit 3-wood and striped it.  So that's going to be the play this afternoon.   
Just every other part of this course I really enjoyed.  My hosts have been unbelievable.  So that's not the small part of why I'm playing well, because I'm having so much fun being with them.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT