U.S. MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 14, 2016
Dan Sullivan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Well, congratulations first of all on a great week.  What do you take out of the experience for the most part?  
DAN SULLIVAN: Just that I have the opportunity and the ability to dig out of some holes sometimes.  Unfortunately, I came up short this time, and hopefully when I'm in this position again I can draw upon this experience and maybe be successful.   
 Q.  Can you characterize some of the afternoon match and sort of what he was doing well or maybe you weren't doing quite as well as what you have been doing?  
DAN SULLIVAN: Just I had a couple of sloppy holes early.  I made a double on 2 when he made bogey and that was a giveaway.  Just holes that I really felt like I had opportunities.  On 1 he made birdie and I missed a short putt, so against a good player like that, making bogey on 18 when he was in trouble.  So just opportunities that I can't give away against a better player that he took advantage of.   
 Q.  Can you talk about 18?  How long did you have into that hole and what club did you hit?  
DAN SULLIVAN: I had, what, 160-something?  163?   
 Q.  156.  
DAN SULLIVAN: I hit an 8-iron, but I kind of floated it up in the air and I pushed it.  So I think if I hit it on the line I was targeting, it would have made the green and I left myself in a pretty unpleasant spot.  I could see.  Because when I got in there I could see the ball moving around, so I knew it wasn't sitting on grass, and I just went right underneath it.   
 Q.  Just coming cross country, getting this far in the championship, overall do you take positives out of this?  
DAN SULLIVAN: Absolutely, yeah.  This was a great week for me.  I played really well at times.  I managed to scratch through when I didn't.  I met some grade A people and made a good friend in Doug and his family.  So, overall, yeah.  Absolutely a great week.   
 Q.  You're exempt for the next two years.  Is that a nice relief enough not to worry about qualifying?  
DAN SULLIVAN: It is a huge relief.  It will be great to see my name on the computer screen next year with a box next to it.  So not having to qualify for two years is very important.   
 Q.  This is the first time in a while that the Mid-Am was televised.  Were you aware of it out there or once you were in the moment, was it kind of in the background?  
DAN SULLIVAN: Yeah, I was aware of it.  I'd be lying if I said I wasn't.  Early on I maybe had a little more jitters than earlier in the week.  But once I kind of got used to it a little bit, I don't feel like it really made a difference.  I think he's been on TV before, so I'm sure it was probably a little bit of a similar experience for him.   
 Q.  Can you talk about support from Southern California and your family and friends and everything you've gotten this week?  
DAN SULLIVAN: I've gotten a lot of support.  Every time I win a match, my text messages are blowing up.  I'm sure they will now.  Our golf association posted a story, and I know Stewart Hagestad who is from Newport Beach got to the finals, so at least we have one California guy in the finals.  I'll be rooting hard for him.   
 Q.  Are you planning to stay or fly back?  
DAN SULLIVAN: I'm going to go home.  I've been out here a long time, and I probably need to get to work.  And my sister's getting married this weekend, so I need to switch my focus back on my real life.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT