NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: RED WINGS v FLYERS
June 5, 1997
Eric Lindros
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  How do you feel?
 
ERIC LINDROS:  Obviously, frustrated.  Disappointed. I guess we have got to start with one win.  We have got to start with something.  And, we got one more chance. 
 

Q.  Is this where pride is going to come into play?
 
ERIC LINDROS:  Pride, yeah, absolutely.  Absolutely. 
 

Q.  You know what the odds are and the history of the game is --
 
ERIC LINDROS:  Odds are tough.  But, they are still just odds.  I mean, you have to start with one win and just get back to playing proper hockey.  Supporting one another.  We are causing a lot of the problems.  We are bringing a lot of it on by ourselves with what we are doing out there and not helping the cause. 
 

Q.  What is the main thing that you are not doing that you should be doing?
 
ERIC LINDROS:  Well, just simple plays.  We are not -- we are trying to do too much with simple plays instead of keeping it basic.  That is the biggest one. 
 

Q.  How do you approach the next game?
 
ERIC LINDROS:  Just do or die.  Just do or die.  And, got to come out get off to a good start and try and get some confidence going.  Obviously the team is down right now and confidence is going to be a big key to the next game for us. And, we have to do our best to get as much as possible early on and try and go with it. 
 

Q.  Did you think it will be different when you got the lead in this game?
 
ERIC LINDROS:  We didn't have it for very long.  I don't know what to say.  I am disappointed.  There is not a whole lot to say.  We were down 3-nothing.  We have got a lot of work to do. 
 

Q.  After you two-man advantage and you couldn't do much, do you think that turned the game around?
 
ERIC LINDROS:  Certainly in that situation I wish we could have done a lot more with the opportunity.  But, what can you do? 
 

Q.  How much was it them playing well and you guys not? Was this their best effort tonight?
 
ERIC LINDROS:  I am not going -- it just seems that every time we give them an opportunity to score, they are scoring.  We give them something.  They are taking it.  And, they are doing a good job around the net.  And, I think it was  the third goal they scored, it is just bang, bang, it is in the net.  You know, on the other hand, we are not helping the cause.  We are not making easy plays.  Something we have got to work on. 
 

Q.  Hexy really didn't have a chance on any of the first three goals?
 
ERIC LINDROS:  You are not going to blame the goaltender.  We didn't play well as a unit.  There is no reason to blame goaltending the whole way through.  We have got to pick up our game. 
 

Q.  Red Wings seemed to be capitalizing on every opportunity they have.  Does that kind of change the way you guys have played?  Does it make you more tentative?
 
ERIC LINDROS:  I don't think it is.  We are just not-- it is time to turn it around and get greedy.  We are not helping our cause.  We are not playing basic hockey and gaining confidence as the game goes on.  We are not doing things that we normally do. 
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT