NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: RED WINGS v FLYERS
May 31, 1997
Eric Lindros
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Eric, Terry said that he thought you guys made a lot of poor decisions there on center ice.  What do you attribute that to? 
 
ERIC LINDROS: I don't know what you attribute it to. We did make some bad decisions.  Coughed the puck up quite a few times.  They also found the net.  We have got to improve. We are not -- we didn't go to the net the same way that we have been going in the past.  And, it was an unfortunate night, but we will go Tuesday. 
 

Q.  Eric, do you think the extra couple of days that you had, the days off, that may have had some effect?
 
ERIC LINDROS: I think both teams finished pretty close to the same time.  It was within a day.  I don't think that you can make excuses that way that 24 hours was the reason for our problems.  Once we got going through the neutral zone and we ended up going to the fore-check, it was late in the third period.  It turned out to be too late. 
 

Q.  What do you think was the difference in tonight's game?
 
ERIC LINDROS: I don't think we skated real well.  I don't think we supported the puck real well.  We knew what they were going to do and we didn't do what we had to do to counter it.  Our game is to get the fore-check.  It is not to be too flashy.  It is just to get things in a basic way and once there a while you are going to get big plays.  And, we didn't get to the fore-check. 
 

Q.  Why is this?  Is it lapse on your part - not you personally, but as a team, or is it something that the Red Wings did to you that you haven't confronted so far in the Playoffs?
 
ERIC LINDROS: Well, they played a different style than any other team that we have played so far.  They played well. They had a lot of different guys putting pucks in the net.  Joe Kocur put a puck in the net.  They had Maltby, I think, scored the first one.  They had a bunch of guys make big plays.  And, here we are. 
 

Q.  Were you trying to impress on Bill McCreay at the end of the game, you and Johnny were talking to him at the end of the game?
 
ERIC LINDROS: Not a whole lot.  I think a lot of it just had to do with just the frustration of losing. 
 

Q.  Is there any positives you can take out of this game tonight, anything positive you could take? 
 
ERIC LINDROS: I think so.  I think that we saw the light when we did get to our fore-check, what we can accomplish.  That should give us a lot more incentive to do so.  When we started skating, we did some good things.  We didn't do some great things, but we did some good things.  And, we just got to watch the give-aways.  We had a tough time in the neutral zone.  We had a tough time at the tops of our circles out.  We scored a couple of goals in the power play.  But, we weren't real sharp on it, to be honest with you.  But, we did score.  So, we will take the positives going into tomorrow have a good practice and we will see you then. 
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT