NATIONWIDE CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL CHAMPIONSHIP
September 1, 2017
Lanto Griffin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Lanto Griffin in at 4-under here at the Scarlet course.  Solid playing these two days.  How would you describe the challenge of this course and you've been able to do well to shoot 4-under?
LANTO GRIFFIN: It's just a tough tract.  You have to kind of position yourself off the tee, hit fairways and then if you get out of position, just kind of take your medicine and give yourself a chance at par.  I've done a pretty good job of that so far, made a few putts.  Overall I'm pretty happy with the way the first two days went.
Q. Playing in the cold is kind of a different test than the last few weeks where it's been so hot out there.  Do you have to do anything different for that or are you used to the cold?
LANTO GRIFFIN: We haven't played in the cold in a while, but it's kind of nice to not be throwing on sunscreen and sweating like crazy.  So I kind of embraced it this morning and overall tried not to think about it too much.  The ball was still flying pretty normal today, so it wasn't like it was not getting knocked down by the weather at all.
Q. What were those few days like after getting your TOUR card?  You were in pretty good position.
LANTO GRIFFIN: I wasn't relaxed at all.  Monday morning we flew out, but Tuesday it was weird, I slept in till 8:00.  I've been waking up at 4:30, 5 for four weeks straight.  As soon as I would wake up, if I used the bathroom, I would just start thinking about the number and the card.
It was really nice Tuesday morning, Wednesday morning, even this morning, I didn't want to get out of bed this morning.  I've just been kind of wired.  It's a relief, and now I can kind of relax and know that I'm at least good for my card.  But I definitely want to play well these next four events to hopefully get into Napa and the Fall Series.
Q. Does it feel a little more relaxed on the course, though, with your card?
LANTO GRIFFIN: Yeah.  I actually felt pretty relaxed even the last four or five weeks.  It's more off the course.  You can actually go home at night and not think about am I going to stay in or Taylor Gooch and Ben Silverman, something like that happens again like Springfield where they finish one, two and you're going to get knocked down when you play well.  Obviously anything could have happened last week.  I think we were all fortunate, 22 through 25, that the number didn't move.  So yeah, a little bit more relaxed off the course than on probably.
Q. Knowing the conditions might get worse as the day goes on, are you happy to be done early today?
LANTO GRIFFIN: I was thinking about that.  Anything under par today I would have been really happy with.  I missed a five-footer on 9 for birdie.  But I'm really happy with 2-under.  Anytime around here, how tough this course -- they did move a couple of tees up, so I don't think the scores are going to be that much worse than yesterday.
Q. The wind is going to blow more.
LANTO GRIFFIN: Yeah.  5 and 11, the 5, the par-3 is a 9-iron, 8-iron, and then 11 the tee is up enough where you can take the bunker out of play and that's the hardest green to the course.  So that's probably at least quite a half a shot easier, No. 11 today.  I hit the same wedge in versus a 7-iron yesterday.  So I'm not going to count on the scores being crazy high, but if it's gets windy, I guess they could be a little bit higher.
Q. It's not like a normal event where you finish in like fifth and you could be like 20th at the end of the day.
LANTO GRIFFIN: Yeah.  I shouldn't move backwards.  This golf course can get you, so two more days of just doing exactly what I'm doing, I'll be in good shape.
Q. Dodging the rain?
LANTO GRIFFIN: Yeah.  Hopefully.  If it rains.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT