UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS AT EL PASO FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 7, 2019
Brandon Jones
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








UTEP - 3, Texas Tech - 38
BRANDON JONES: Consistent yardage game, first downs, which we really need an offense just to get it rolling and get it doing. Obviously take that on me. I have to be a better quarterback, a better leader, a better captain of this team and kind of take us in the right direction by any means.
Q. How did you handle -- no quarterback likes to get benched in a game. How do you handle this?
BRANDON JONES: Nothing you can do about it. You've just got to take it -- kind of take it as it is and if Kai is giving us the best opportunity to win, he deserves to be out there. Our team deserves to win. We've worked too hard to lose. So whoever wins should be out there. I mean, it sucks, obviously, but just take it in stride.
We learned we can obviously compete with teams. This is a Big 12 team. They are a very talented team and we learned we can compete with them. We did a lot of things better this week than last week. I can tell you that much. It may not reflect in the score but you go back and watch the film, you can see that we're a couple plays away from winning this ballgame.
Obviously we didn't come here to lose but just take stuff from it and get better as a team.
Q. Anything you can put your finger on?
BRANDON JONES: As a whole, the offense, especially the quarterback position, in the first half we just have to execute better. I know that's kind of a blanket statement but that's just the best way I can put it. We just have to execute better. The coaches are putting us in the right situation, and we just didn't convert them.
Q. You probably attack every practice the same way as hard as you possibly can, but with the bye week, how will you approach these next couple weeks of practice and make sure that you're the guy out there?
BRANDON JONES: Like you said, just attack it kind of the same way. Every day you've got to earn your job, whether it's football, whether it's life. I feel like you've just got to compete every day. So that's what I'm going to do. I'm going to make sure our team is going to be right for Nevada in two weeks; I promise you that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT