NL DIVISION SERIES: ASTROS v BRAVES
October 6, 1999
Mike Hampton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Is there something about big games you get up more for?
 
 MIKE HAMPTON: Pressure situation, you want to thrive in. It's easy to get up for those
type of games, and if you do well, you look great, but if not, you know, you look like a
guy that's choked; so it's a double-edged sword. But, you know, those are the games you
want to be in. Those of are the ones that test your character and test your ability and
everything is on the line. Those are situations that you dream about.  
 
Q. How many more games do you think you have in you since you've been staying in games
longer this year?
 
 MIKE HAMPTON: It's a thing where you're going to have a chance to stay in longer and
pitch deep in the game. Being able to just put the ball in play and make things happen
with the bat only helped my situation of being able to stay in those games. It's something
that I enjoy doing; something I have tried doing. Anything I can do offensively that helps
this team win is definitely a big key. This year has been one of those years where a lot
of things have gone right and that just happened to be one of them.  
 
Q. If Dierker tells you to pitch around Chipper Jones, what are you going to do?
 
 MIKE HAMPTON: Depends on the situation: Bases open, two outs, you make your pitch. It's
not necessarily a four-pitch walk or something like that. Just throw your pitch, tough
pitches. If he's going to hit a pitch, make sure it's a pitch you want him to hit and you
don't fall behind in the count. And it's not necessary to throw a strike, but basically
what it boils down to is a situation of the game whether we have guys in the scoring
position. He's been hot. We've battled pretty good throughout the years together. I get
him out and he hits me. You know, it's -- I don't think anyone really has the advantage,
but definitely the situation determines how I'll pitch.  
 
Q. From where you were a couple of years ago to where you are now, could you explain
how you got from there to here?
 
 MIKE HAMPTON: In baseball, especially my experience in pitching, confidence is the
biggest factor. You've got confidence in getting people out and confidence in your
abilities of being out on the mound and knowing you're giving your team a chance to win
each. And every time out, you're going to start getting to the point where you become a
better pitcher. Earlier in my career, I was more of a thrower. I threw a little harder,
getting into jams and getting into situations where I needed some outs; so I would turn it
up, as opposed to a situation now where I can take a little bit off, get more movement on
my pitches. That's been the biggest key I think not pressing. I try to pitch about a 90 to
95 percent rate where situations where I do need that extra, I still have it, and then
situations determine when I've got an aggressive hitter I can pick some off. So it
basically comes down to knowing your ability, to just learning throughout the years of
what hitters like to do in situations and pitching smart.  
 
Q. You obviously have a great case for winning the Cy Young award. How disappointed
would you be if you did not win?
 
 MIKE HAMPTON: I don't know if disappointed is a good word for it. I've definitely had
the best year I probably could possibly have. Everything has gone right. From a standpoint
of pitching the innings, being late in the games, you know, I've been having a lot of run
support; guys who have great behind me and been great behind the plate. I felt that I have
a chance, and I feel like there's a guy in Arizona that's had an incredible year and his
stats speak for themselves. Millwood has had a great year. I feel I have a chance, but
like I say, I can't control those things. I wouldn't be disappointed if I didn't because
of all the great years that pitchers have had this year.  
 
Q. Yesterday Kevin Millwood said you would be his Cy Young Award winner. If you had a
list, who would be on your ballot and who would be your winner?
 
 MIKE HAMPTON: Well, having a chance to watch Jose pitch all year, he would definitely
be on it. Millwood would be on it. I didn't get a chance to, you know, watch a lot of the
games on TV like a lot of the media does that follows the teams. Randy Johnson, of course,
he's going to be there. I've always liked Millwood, the way he's pitched kind of in the
shadow of the big three here, the guys here, I don't think you can have a better year out
of the spotlight like he's had, and he would definitely be in the top. To pick a favorite,
Randy Johnson has probably got to be the favorite.  
 
Q. The trade that brought you here was one of the most one-sided of all time. Do you
ever think to yourself: You could be up there in that Seattle mess?
 
 MIKE HAMPTON: You look back, they had a lot of their young pitchers and young players.
There's some guys that have moved on and made some great years. If we're able to keep all
of us together, I think there could be some special things happening there. But it was the
greatest thing to happen to be to be able to come to Houston, to have a chance to pitch
out of the pen in '94 and get some confidence, trust myself and actually realize that I
was a major league caliber type pitcher. That was the best thing to happen to me. I have
no regrets of my time in Seattle. I just wish I had I had a little more opportunity to
prove myself. It didn't work out. But like I say, the trade to Houston was the best thing
to happen to me.  
 
Q. Have you given any thought to the fact that your start could be the clinching game
for your team?
 
 MIKE HAMPTON: That would be the best-case scenario, and I hope it's true. We've got a
great team, and we're facing a great team. We've got a great pitcher. For us to win today
things are going to have to work in our favor. We're going to have to get the breaks. To
be able to go in that situation back home would be a big lift for this team and is
something I would definitely look forward to.  
 
Q. Would you expect Atlanta to approach you differently down 0-2 than if the series is
even at 1-1?
 
 MIKE HAMPTON: I don't think so. Atlanta has been a team that has won over the years
with dominant pitching and timely hitting. It's something that they do well. I don't see
that they have won so many games after the past six, seven, eight years. I don't see why
they would have to start changing that. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT