NL DIVISION SERIES: CUBS v BRAVES
October 4, 2003
Mike Hampton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  What is the biggest problem with operating on three days' rest?
 
MIKE HAMPTON: If you're durable, if you're used to throwing a lot, I don't think there is any problem.  With the program that Leo has set up, there is no problem, as long as you throw strong.  
 
Q.  Mike, you mentioned the program Leo set up.  Can you give an idea what that is?
 
MIKE HAMPTON: He likes to throw and get off the mound as much as possible.  It's not a maximum effort kind of session.  He likes to get us off the mound at least twice.  That helps. 
 
Q.  What is the most pressure and biggest pressure game you've ever been in?
 
MIKE HAMPTON: Any time you play in postseason, I think every game has a lot of pressure in it.  In ABLS or NLCS, World Series games, there is a lot of pressure involved in any one of them.  I don't think any other one is greater than the other, unless it's a deciding game. 
 
Q.  Kerry Wood said he has torn feelings about pitching today.  Is it something that's easier for you knowing you have to win today?  Is it the same premise for you?
 
MIKE HAMPTON: You never know what's going to happen.  You have to prepare to pitch, and I'm sure Kerry is just as prepared.  Regardless of anything, we have to win this game to take it to another one.  If they win today, he's going to prepare for the NLCS start. 
 
Q.  Talk about the mood of the clubhouse last night.
 
MIKE HAMPTON: We know it takes three to win this thing.  We would like to have won the game, but we're not going to be happy about a loss any time we do lose.  We know it takes three to win.  
 
Q.  Are you a believer in momentum, and if the series goes back to Atlanta, do you think momentum will be with you?
 
MIKE HAMPTON: We're going to our ballpark, which is a plus.  I think it would shift.  Games are different one to the next, and so far, their two big guys have pitched really well and held us down, but anything can happen and anything can change and hopefully today it will. 
 
Q.  Mike, (inaudible).  Does it make it easier for you in this situation where younger guys might be thrown off by the pressure?
 
MIKE HAMPTON: You never know.  Each person is different.  This is a team game, but as individuals we look at ourself on our face and our performance.  You can have a rookie do just as well as a veteran.  Each guy is different.  
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT