MLB WORLD SERIES: METS v YANKEES
October 21, 2000
Mike Hampton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  You had some type of a reputation as a guy that's battled anxiety in the post-season before this.  Why was that? Was it warranted; and if so, why?

MIKE HAMPTON: Battled anxiety?  I don't see myself that way.  I just am pretty excited to be in this situation.  Besides that, I don't see myself as that type of person.  It's supposed to be fun.  A lot of times I don't look like I'm having fun, but I'm enjoying myself. 


Q.  Do you think this whole post-season experience will play into your off-season thinking?

MIKE HAMPTON: I haven't really had the opportunity to think about anything beyond this series.  That's where my thinking is going to be the entire time.  I can't afford to let my mind wander and think about places I'm going to be next year because, I mean, I haven't thought about it.  I think it's been a positive thing, just thinking about the Mets and helping this team win the World Series.  So afterwards, yeah.  But right now, I just can't afford to. 


Q.  Were you surprised when Bobby picked Al ahead of you to start Game 1? And, also, did you need an extra day of rest after the NLCS?

MIKE HAMPTON: I wasn't surprised by it.  I think the Division Series and the Championship Series, he could have picked either one of us to start both those games.  Al hadn't pitched in a while, and it was his turn.  He's already had an extra couple days, and he's a power pitcher.  He's had plenty of rest to be strong.  I threw 120 pitches.  I mean, it was an all-out effort mentally and physically.  Yeah, I think the extra day can help.  I wasn't surprised.  And I think Al and I have stated all along we didn't care.  We knew we were going to get a chance to start.  Whenever Bobby chooses to, he'll let us go.  So once we get the ball, we'll pitch.  But I had no preference. 


Q.  Are you disappointed you won't get to hit in the World Series the way you're lined up right now?

MIKE HAMPTON: I would actually enjoy that.  I got a lot of buddies on a lot of different teams that haven't been to a World Series.  If I could get a hit, there would be some good ribbing right there. 


Q.  How do you feel you match up against the Yankees' line-up when you look at it top to bottom?

MIKE HAMPTON: They're awesome.  I mean, they have a great line-up.  One through nine, they can put some guys in there with a mix of speed and power, very experienced.  So for me to be successful, I'm going to have to live on the corners and keep the ball down.  Similar to the way I approached my last two starts against the Cardinals.  They're a great team as well.  You can't make mistakes.  Too many mistakes, you get pounded.  This team that we're playing is a great team.  They're veterans, and they know how to work the count like the Cardinals did.  They don't seem to swing at too many bad pitches. 


Q.  You said before your last start you were going to pitch the game of your life.  How do you feel going into this one?

MIKE HAMPTON: I've felt comfortable.  I mean, I think everything's lined up for me physically and mentally to pitch well.  I mean, I have every expectation of pitching well.   I go out with the expectation of giving my team a chance to win, and that's the same thing I'll attempt to do tomorrow night. 


Q.  A lot is made of the experience of the fact that the Mets only have two guys that have been in the World Series before.  Do you think the pressure of the World Series is greater or less than being in the playoffs themselves?

MIKE HAMPTON: Post-season in general, I think you find out about yourself.  This is my fourth year in a row playing in the post-season.  Of course, I haven't been in a World Series.  But the more opportunities I get, I think the more comfortable you feel.   We have Al and Bordick and Abbott and Cook that had been in the World Series.  Their post-season experience can help and relay the messages.  This is my first.  This is all new to me.  This is my first World Series.  I really have to answer that question later. 


Q.  What's the drain of adrenaline on a pitcher  after you go through a whole season of 30-odd starts, then it comes down to a whole other season?

MIKE HAMPTON: I think you use a lot more adrenaline in the post-season.  You go through lapses and starts during the season.  Your body's going to ache; you're not feeling that great.  You find a way to pitch through it and win.  So far, my experience in the post-season has been I've always felt comfortable, I've always felt good, I've always felt very strong. Earlier, I had to learn how to control that a little bit and not overthrow, because I was feeling so good, and the way I pitch is not at a max effort unless I need to get it there once in a while.  So the post-season, I've felt really strong, and the physical drain, I haven't felt that. 


Q.  Since you guys made the World Series, where is the strangest place you've gotten a comment from? A long-lost relative? Who have you heard from that you wouldn't expect?

MIKE HAMPTON: Well, near the building I live in, they're doing a lot of construction.  I was actually walking by a construction site.  One of the workers jumped out, had a sweatshirt on.  Underneath his sweatshirt, he had a Yankees shirt on.  "Ah! We're gonna get you again!"   That was probably one of the weirdest moments.  That shocked me a little bit.  I didn't know if I was getting held up.  He said:  "We got a lot of Mets fans here, but I'm a Yankee fan.  We're gonna whip you."   I'm like,  "All right, man, sounds good.  You root for your team."


Q.  Does the fact that it's Clemens on the other side make it a little more intense?

MIKE HAMPTON: I think so.  It's awesome.  I've said it a few times that just in general talking to people, I mean, this is great.  This is one  -- he's one of the greatest pitchers that ever played this game.  To have the opportunity to pitch against him is really something special.  He's a true talent of the game.  He's a hard worker.  I mean, he's everything that a power pitcher is, and he works really hard at the game.  He's one of the best, and he deserves everything he's got.  It's going to be exciting for me to be out there against him. 


Q.  The Piazza thing in July?

MIKE HAMPTON: I don't care about that.  Mike's all right.  He's healthy.  He came back from that okay.  As long as he has no hard feelings, then I think the focus is just to win these games. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT