NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: METS v CARDINALS
October 15, 2000
Mike Hampton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 

Q.  Bobby Jones yesterday talked about how he watches Rick Reed's starts really intently.  Similar pitchers, sees certain tendencies.  Do you get anything out of the starts from the right-handed starts or is it a totally different ball game?
 
MIKE HAMPTON: You're right, totally different ball game.  
 

Q.  You seemed pretty relieved and pleased with your performance in the last game.  How does that help you beyond that actual game?
 
MIKE HAMPTON: Relieved, I don't know about relieved, I was satisfied with the way things went.  But tomorrow will be a new ball game.  I'll start at ground zero in the first inning.  They can come out and have a different approach, or come out with the same approach.  They have some tough at-bats, they're a good team.  It's always a battle out there.  But whoever's on tomorrow will win.  
 

Q.  Can you talk about the differences between pitching on three days rest and four days rest, how you prepare for it differently, what the advantages are for four days over three days?
 
MIKE HAMPTON: Depends on the person.  I guess I was watching something on Joe Torre's speaking, he said power pitchers might need that extra day, like to have the full rest because they rely on the velocity of their pitches.  Guys like myself, guys that rely on movement and location, I don't think it bothers me as much.  I know with Darryl (Kile), I played, shoot, I think four years with him, I felt if anybody could pitch on two days' rest, he'd be the one guy that could do it, he throws all the time.  He throws 200 balls a day and it's like his arm never hurts.  It just depends on the person I think.  
 

Q.  When you decide where you're going to play next year, does it have to be a National League city so you can hit?
 
MIKE HAMPTON: I've avoided that question for six and a half months, I'm thinking another two weeks won't be hard avoiding.  
 

Q.  You mentioned after the last start you said it felt good to contribute after pitching the way you did.  Do you get down on yourself when you feel like you haven't had a good outing? Do you feel like you let the team down?
 
MIKE HAMPTON: I just expect a lot out of myself; it's just an expectation.  I feel that any time after a bad outing, I just have to reflect on things I could have done different.  That's probably why I sleep maybe two or three hours after I start regardless of how I pitch. But I don't really get down on myself.  I just think of things I can do different next time or things I can improve on. 
 

Q.  Do you get any angrier in the next start, do you have a different attitude?
 
MIKE HAMPTON: Do I look like an angry person sometimes? (Laughter.)  I don't know if anger is the right word.  Maybe a little more focused, it's probably it's just focus and a concentration level that I don't want to have to go through again.  I don't want to have to answer those questions and run those theories through my mind of why I did this, why I did that.  That's the best explanation I can give you.  
 

Q.  This is sort of in the same vain.  Is the reaction to a post-season start stronger afterwards - pride when you do well - or is it really like a regular season start?
 
MIKE HAMPTON: It's just  -- everything's on the line.  So I think the upside, I know, is probably a little greater.  It's magnified a few times because basically if you perform well, your team's going to go home.  That's one thing with a starting pitcher's job, is the outcome of the game.  Basically it lies on your shoulders because nothing happens until that ball leaves your hand.  And a hitter can go 0-4, somebody will pick him up, but a pitcher gets off to a bad day and puts you in a hole early, that's the difference in a ball game.  
 

Q.  Your competitiveness and your intensity, is that something as a kid that was there, and what did you do as a kid in sports to get that way?
 
MIKE HAMPTON: If anything, if I can pinpoint anything, it's probably just the way I was raised.  I just was taught to win regardless.  Basically, second place is first loser.  That's basically what it boils down to.  The things I do, the approach I take, the way I look on the mound is nothing that I go out and try to do.  It's just what comes naturally.  
 

Q.  Taught by who?
 
MIKE HAMPTON: Just my father's doing basically.  At a young age, I was playing ball, watching him, watching him play the game, he played it to win, played it hard until the last out was made.  That's the way I was taught, that's the way I play, that's the way I teach my kids.  
 

Q.  What is it that's really running through your mind when you're not sleeping?
 
MIKE HAMPTON: Just my mindset, pitch location, situations that I would have done differently, if I give up one hit, why did I give up one hit; if I gave up ten, why did I give up those ten hits? Just break it down.  It's something you can't turn off, it's going and going and going, and every once in a while you doze off in between.  It's something that never dies.  Maybe it's just me being a perfectionist.  
 

Q.  Do you sleep pretty well before the game?
 
MIKE HAMPTON: I actually do all right before the game.  I sleep pretty well.  I've never been one that needs a ton of sleep to feel well-rested.  But I do a little better before the games than I do after.  
 

Q.  If you had a chance tomorrow to pitch the clinching game here at home, will the excitement be a little more difficult to contain?
 
MIKE HAMPTON: This is all exciting.  It doesn't matter if  -- I'd love to be in that situation.  And in a perfect world, things turn out and we'll win the game tonight and then I'll be in that situation.  But I'm looking forward, regardless to 2-2, 3-1.  I'm pitching the game of my life.  I'm going to be excited about it, I'll go out there, put it all on the line and do the best I can.  One thing I've never had was regrets of my performance, because I know I do my best on the field.  That's the way I'll approach it.  
 

Q.  When you face the same team in consecutive starts, do you automatically make adjustments or do you wait to see if they're making adjustments and then respond?
 
MIKE HAMPTON: I've been one of those pitchers that usually goes with my strengths - sinking fastball in and out, keeping the ball down.  That's the way I am.  I was pretty unsuccessful last time, wasn't pretty, got more guys on base than I would have liked to, walked a few guys, had some tough innings.  But if anything different, it's just I have to try to be a little more consistent, ahead in the count a little more.  Stuff-wise, pitch selection wise, I'm going to stay with my strengths.  
 

Q.  Sort of to follow that up, how much advantage do they get from seeing you a second time in six days, do you think?
 
MIKE HAMPTON: The thing about starting pitching is if you get in a pattern and you're predictable, they keep seeing the same stuff over and over again, then it becomes maybe an advantage for them.  But when you're able to control both sides of the plate and change speeds, yeah, they might know what stuff you have, but they don't know what's coming in that particular situation.  That's the way I approach it.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT