NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: METS v CARDINALS
October 11, 2000
Mike Hampton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Would you assess your performance tonight?
 
MIKE HAMPTON:  It wasn't pretty, but it worked.  I didn't have the greatest stuff.  My command wasn't as good early as I would have liked it to have been; as I was later.  I felt as the game went on and the game progressed I got a little bit more comfortable. 
 

Q.  Did you find yourself bearing down more with men on base?  You seemed like you answered all the questions.
 
MIKE HAMPTON:  As good as this team is, as good as the Cardinals are, they never let you breathe.  You have got guys coming at you from all angles.  It is a tough chore.  It is a tough job to face a lineup as good as theirs.  But, yeah, when you get guys on base, I mean, you know, I was continuously trying to make that one pitch to get me out of it. Just kept working at it, I wasn't going to give in.  I  wasn't going to give them a good pitch to hit.  I was going to stay with my strengths and keep the ball down and try to get a key groundball when I needed it. 
 

Q.  Describe your feelings as Edmonds' ball went towards left.
 
MIKE HAMPTON:  I didn't breathe, I will tell you that.  I thought if I was going to breathe, it might have pushed the ball over the fence, but Benny gave me a pretty good deke.  I just followed it the whole way.  I just wanted that ball to come down so bad.  Luckily the park held it. 
 

Q.  You spoke a little bit after the first round about redemption.  Would you talk a little bit about how that affected you and was that on your mind?
 
MIKE HAMPTON:  I wasn't upset with my stuff in the Giants series, but the outcome definitely wasn't what I wanted.  I just wanted to do my part and I -- just like everybody else, just wanted to do our part and help this team win.  I didn't do that in the first series and I really wanted to concentrate and focus on being one of those guys who was a contributor instead of a liability and really go out there and prove a little something. 
 

Q.  What about Piazza's presence tonight, he got the big hit right off the bat and his working with  you, you guys seemed to be in sync?
 
MIKE HAMPTON:  Well, with him in the lineup in general, is enough to put a fear in opposing pitchers just because he is so talented and at any time given time he could leave the park or come up with a big hit - in that aspect of the game, being an opposing pitcher.  But I am very comfortable with him behind the plate.  He caught a great game.  A really big pitch was the curve ball, 2-2 curve ball to Edmonds and it really wasn't in my mind, but once he put that signal down I said:  Man, that will work.  That would be a good pitch if I could get this thing down.  I was able to make the good pitch.  It is nice to have him back there.  He is into the game.  It was great tonight. 
 

Q.  Which pitch was that, that Edmonds' hit?
 
MIKE HAMPTON:  I think in the -- probably in the 5th inning I guess -- the strikeout in the 5th inning.  We have been throwing him cutters away and sinkers away and an occasional fastball in, and he hadn't seen the breaking ball yet.  I felt pretty comfortable with it.  It just wasn't in my thought process.  Once he put the signal down, I thought that was a pitch, if I could get it where I needed to. 
 

Q.  Did you shake him off very much? 
 
MIKE HAMPTON:  Not really.  There was a couple of times that, you know, I had a gut instinct on a pitch that if I made it, I felt, that is just it.  He caught me about 35 times now so we are pretty familiar with each other. 
 

Q.  The curve was a strikeout pitch?
 
MIKE HAMPTON:  Yeah. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT