NBA DRAFT
June 27, 2013
Alex Len
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Alex, congratulations to you.   You go to an organization with the Phoenix Suns.   They don't have an identity.   How are you looking to grow and learn and see that tutelage to help them get back to where they are? 
ALEX LEN:   I'm really excited to go to Phoenix.   It's a great city, great team.   A lot of young players.   Just can't wait to get to work and help the team win. 
I think we're going to be good, and I met a couple of guys.   I know Marcin Gortat and I can't wait to get there and just help the team win. 

Q.   Have you spoken with Coach Hornacek at all? 
ALEX LEN:   Yeah.   I just talked to him.   They're really excited to have me.   I can't explain in words.   I'm so excited to be there and can't wait to get to work. 

Q.   Alex, congratulations.   Right now Phoenix has two big men who have made a name for themselves who are also foreign‑born with Luis Scola and Marcin Gortat.   What do you feel you can learn from these two men who have really showed some excellence in the league? 
ALEX LEN:   They are two great players.   Great veterans.   I'm really excited to play next to them, just learn from them.   And I think it's going to be a great season for us next season.   And just can't wait to go to Phoenix, just start the work. 

Q.   Alex, you mentioned earlier how nervous you were today just being here.   Go back a couple of years ago.   What was the decision like to come to the States and how nerve‑wracking was that? 
ALEX LEN:   It was crazy.   The process‑‑ the NBA Draft is really unpredictable.   So it was crazy.   But I'm trying to just enjoy it.   Two years ago I had no idea I was going to be here at this point.   But I work hard, and the hard work paid off. 

Q.   Geography question:   Have you ever been to the desert, the Valley of the Sun? 
ALEX LEN:   Yeah, I visited there. 

Q.   Have you been there on a good day? 
ALEX LEN:   I liked it a lot, actually.   Totally opposite from where I am.   I'm from the Ukraine.   It gets really cold there. 
I like sun, and I like the weather and I like the city, too. 

Q.   Talk about the fans at Maryland.   They're a very passionate bunch.   They really support the team.   You get sort of the same thing in Phoenix.   What do you think the fans can expect out of you in your first year? 
ALEX LEN:   You're right, Maryland fans are the best.   I think the best in the country.   I feel honored to receive this opportunity to represent my school, my family and my country.   My fans can expect from me just tremendous work ethic, and I'm going to be a great teammate and I'm going to try to win and help the team win games. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, Alex. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT