ALLSTATE BCS NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP GAME: LSU v ALABAMA
January 6, 2012
Barrett Jones
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What do you think about this place?   Pretty darned cool?
BARRETT JONES:   It's pretty awesome.   I think it's gotten a whole lot‑‑ been some renovations since we were here in '08, and it looks really, really good. 
We're excited to be here on such an awesome weekend when the Saints are playing, and we're going to cap it off on Monday. 
Really excited about the game and looking forward to it.

Q.   Take me through your mindset right now.   Are you anxious?   Are you ready to play this thing?   We're still a few days away. 
BARRETT JONES:   Yeah, I think we're ready to play.   It's been‑‑ I don't know what the exact day count is, but it's been so many days since we last played.   It's almost like a whole other miniature season. 
So we're anxious to get back out there on the field.

Q.   Last time you guys played back in November, a lot of people complained about the scoring.   But as a football purist, I love the physical nature of the game.   As an offensive lineman, how much fun was that for you, justhard‑hitting, smashmouth for 60 minutes?
BARRETT JONES:   Definitely the most physical game I've ever been a part of.   We definitely want to score some more points, but we played really physical the first game and going to do that again the second game.

Q.   Five media sessions this week.   Is this media overkill?
BARRETT JONES:   I guess it depends on who you ask.   I think we're all right.   This is a big stage, and we expect this.   And you gotta just be thankful that we have an opportunity where the media actually wants to talk to us five times. 
So we'd rather have it that way than the other way around.

Q.   Are you more tired of practicing or talking to us?
BARRETT JONES:   I'm just ready to play the game.   Practicing against your own team for so many days in a row definitely gets old. 
You guys, we never get tired of y'all; we love talking to you guys.

Q.   (Indiscernible) said yesterday he had a chip on his shoulder going into this game about this game about the critics who say you don't belong here.   Is that a heady approach, having a chip on your shoulder in this game?
BARRETT JONES:   I think so.   I think a lot of people look at that game.   That's really the only game they saw of us all season, see we scored six points and talk about how our offense is terrible.   And they fail to realize we actually were the second best offense in the SEC statistics‑wise. 
So I think offensively, especially, we have a little bit of a chip on our shoulder, just because people say we can't play offense because that's the only game they really watched.

Q.   Can you understand the argument, if you played for Oklahoma State, why they should be here?   Can you understand that side of it at all?
BARRETT JONES:   Honestly, not really, because we have a system in place and that's how the system turned out. 
I think if it was the other way, we'd have a tough time having an argument because if we start questioning the system and changing it, then, you know‑‑ we have to have a way we decide who plays in the game, and so this is the way that the system's set.

Q.   Last time Alabama won a national title it was 1993, but it was the 1992 season.   How old were you in 1992?
BARRETT JONES:   Two.   I was born in 1990.   I was two years old.   But I didn't watch the game then, but I've watched it since.

Q.   You didn't remember too much back then?
BARRETT JONES:   No, I don't remember it from then.   But obviously seen the play and a lot of their plays, some highlights from that game.

Q.   We try to get to know you guys a little better.   I hear back in your younger days very musically talented, you played the violin.   Can you enlighten me on those days?   Do you still play?
BARRETT JONES:   I did play the violin for about 10 or 11 years.   It's something I really enjoyed doing, and, yeah, I don't really play anymore.   But I can still pick it up and play.   You play for that long, you can still‑‑ you don't lose it.

Q.   When was the last time you played?
BARRETT JONES:   Last week, actually.   Now that you guys found out about this violin talent, some of my friends were begging me to play.   So I finally pulled it out and played for them a few songs.

Q.   Are you in favor of a college football playoff?
BARRETT JONES:   I don't know.   It's not for me to say.   That's a tough one.   I think it's kind of a misconception that all the players hate the BCS.   And it's hard to hate the BCS when you're in the SEC because it has been so good to us.   And certainly we feel like if we win our conference, then we'll have a chance to play for the title.

Q.   Because I'm surveying the players, would you be a yes, no, or undecided?
BARRETT JONES:   If I was in favor for a playoff? 

Q.   Yeah. 
BARRETT JONES:   Whew.   I think I would be‑‑ the plus‑one kind of playoff? 

Q.   Well, if it's a yes, my next question is:   How many teams would you want in it?   So there's no set way to do it. 
BARRETT JONES:   Yeah, I'm going to go undecided, just because I'm not really sure.   I definitely don't want to be part of a huge playoff because I think so many more games.

Q.   16 games is too much?
BARRETT JONES:   We already play enough games, in my opinion. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT