ALLSTATE BCS NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP GAME: LSU v ALABAMA
January 5, 2012
Barrett Jones
Marquis Maze
Jim McElwain
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Welcome to the 2012 Allstate BCS National Championship.   
Today's press conference features the Alabama offense.   We have offensive coordinator Jim McElwain along with Barrett Jones and Marquis Maze.   And after 20 minutes we'll bring in AJ McCarron, Trent Richardson, and William Vlachos to the podium here.   
Coach, if you'd like to make an opening statement, and then we'll open it up for questions.  
JIM MCELWAIN:   First of all, I'd just like to say what an honor it is to be here and be at such a great Bowl game, and obviously in our second national championship game, this is a great town.   They do a great job here, and I know our guys are really excited about getting the opportunity to play in the game.  
And it's good to see you guys again.   So from there, we'll roll with the questions.   
THE MODERATOR:   Questions?   
   
 Q.   Coach Mack, since we haven't had a chance to talk to you since the first time you played LSU, just talk about what happened, what was frustrating about that game, what you can take positive from it from November the5th?  
JIM MCELWAIN:   Sure.   You know, the one thing we take positive is our guys competed their tails off.   And that's something that we're proud of as a staff.   I thought our guys played hard against a very, very good defense.  
Obviously we came up short a little bit.   And I think our resolve and wanting to get back out is something that we're really shooting for.   
But they are a very, very good defense, and there's no doubt about it, and this will be a great challenge for us.  
   
 Q.   Coach Mack, the first time you went through this experience in 2009, it was with a first‑year quarterback, Greg McElroy, now you're a game away from the same thing also with another first‑year quarterback.   Just how unlikely is it that you could take two first‑year guys and see them through this far and what are the challenges of working with first‑year quarterbacks?  
JIM MCELWAIN:   I think the great thing about working with first‑year quarterbacks is I don't have a couple of years to screw them up.   So they're doing a pretty good job of taking what the defense is giving them.   
I think AJ's done a good job as an understudy, and I think one of the great things there that you kind of lose focus on is he had an opportunity to learn from Greg how to prepare.   
And I think Greg was a great study for AJ, and I'm really proud about the way that he's progressed.  
   
 Q.   Coach, I wanted you to talk a little bit about how AJ performed in the LSU game.   I know a lot was made out of the sack that he took in overtime.   And then can you talk a little bit about your personal relationship with him?   Obviously he had Thanksgiving dinner at your house.   
JIM MCELWAIN:   Yeah, he put up with my cooking.   It was unbelievable.   He actually smiled and said he liked it.   I don't know if he really did or not.   
But obviously you get real close to those guys.   We spend a ton of time together.   And AJ has really done a good job I guess adapting to my nuances, which is really good.   And he obviously has some plays he'd like back.   
I'll tell you what:   He competed hard and he's ready to go, and we'll see where he is from there.  
   
 Q.   Coach, could you talk about LSU's corners as cover guys, as good as you've seen?   Sort of from your standpoint, how good are they?  
JIM MCELWAIN:   Scary.   They're the real guys.   And I think that's one thing even in this league that you see.   I mean, the defenses in this league, you know, are really, really good.   And these guys are at the top of that heap.  
And our receivers, I really believe we have a great receiving corps, guys that compete hard, guys that want to go out and win, and yet they'll have their hands full because that back end is solid.   Even when they bring guys in, you know, in their different packages, they're all really good cover guys.   
And, yet, that's how you get in a game like this.   We've got our work cut out for us.  
   
 Q.   Coach, for us in Europe we don't have this thing with college sport.   I wonder if you could try to explain how come you Americans are all so passionate about American college football.   
JIM MCELWAIN:   That's a great question.   I think one of the things is probably the physical nature, you know, number one, and kind of goes back to gladiator days maybe a little bit, and it probably has more to do with the fact that it's ours.   It's something that kind of has grown up here and our culture has grown up with it.  
And the passionate fans and especially in the league we're in is unlike anywhere else.   But I think that probably has something to do with it.  
   
 Q.   Coach, how have you been able to balance moonlighting having two jobs at one time?  
JIM MCELWAIN:   Well, it's been a challenge.   But I think, as these guys can attest, our focus since I left there has been for this ballgame.   And what I try to do is late at night make the calls and catch up.   
Coach Saban has been unbelievable, a help, because he went through kind of the same thing when he took the Michigan State job when he was with the Browns, so leaning on that experience.   And he's been really good about helping with some of the office staff and that kind of thing.   
And it's routine as normal.   As a coach, you don't get any sleep anyway.  
   
 Q.   For all of you, what is the biggest challenge of, offensively, a long way off in between games?   How do you approach that?   How did you guys approach that?   
BARRETT JONES:   I think something that's really important, just kind of maintaining your rhythm.   I think the way we approached it is we had a few days where we kind of had almost scrimmages.   We did a lot of one‑on‑one reps.   They were just about full speed, everything but tackling.   
I think you've got to do that, one versus one, with your defense, just to make sure you stay in sync on offense.  
MARQUIS MAZE:   Just pretty much what Barrett said.   You know, just the timing and the situation of the game and just using what we got to get what we want.  
   
 Q.   For all of you, Coach, you talked about it being kind of a gladiator feel, and I think everybody in the country looks at these two teams and realize that's what you have on display and what's going to happen on Monday night.   Could you comment on knowing the team so well, playing them year in, year out, being on the same side, the same division and also having the rematch this year?  
JIM MCELWAIN:   Well, obviously this is a great rivalry, and we've got tons of respect for this outfit.   They're very talented.   And I think knowing each other, you know, from a preparation standpoint, I'm sure there will be some new wrinkles because of that fact.   
Yet we're just really, really excited to be here.   And I think our guys know that we have given‑‑ kind of received a second shot.   And we're excited for that.  
BARRETT JONES:   I think this is a really unique game just because the first time we played in this game I said it was the most physical game I ever played in.   And I still believe that.  
I think that's why it's such a cool opportunity to get to do it again, just because it's really not a secret.   We know what we're going to do and what they're going to do and it comes down to who wins in the trenches.   
It's an offensive lineman's dream, this kind of game where you can be physical.   And you know you're going to get a physical game from them because of the style of their defense and the talent of their defensive line.   
So I think as an offense, and specifically as an offensive line, we're excited about that challenge.  
MARQUIS MAZE:   Mainly because‑‑ I think the name, because both of our teams are physical, and that's what we pride ourselves on and that's what they pride themselves on.   
So the thing about it is who is going to be more physical in the game, and that's what we're working on in practice and that's what we continue to do until Monday.  
   
 Q.   Jim, you've had four years now being the offensive coordinator working under a coach who is all about defense.   What's that been like?   Has there ever been friction putting a game plan together and calling particular plays?  
JIM MCELWAIN:   No, there's never been.   I couldn't have asked for a better experience.   Coach Saban is all about helping.   He's all about the whole team.   All three phases of the game.   
And I think the one thing we've done a pretty good job of since we've been here is complementing each other and understanding that at the end of the day it's about figuring out how to win the game however you do it, and I think Coach is a master of that.  
   
 Q.   Jim, a little bit of a philosophical question here.   When you look at this game, LSU and you guys obviously have the No. 1 and 2 defenses in the country.   When you look at the NFL playoffs, the Packers and Patriots have the two worst defenses in terms of yardage in the country.   A little bit of an anomaly.   But I'm wondering philosophically how you think we got to this point, where there are two sort of different means to an end?  
JIM MCELWAIN:   That's pretty good.   I think, still, at the end of the day, that the idea is to make sure that you're sound against the run defensively, you're able to stop people down in the scoring area.   
And I know as an offensive coordinator it's great to have those good defenses.   And that's something that over the career maybe we didn't have, and yet it's pretty comforting to think of it from that aspect.   Those are two obviously great offenses.   
And yet I think the big games really come down to who can stop people, and that's the key.   
   
 Q.   Coach and Barrett, Trent's had a great year.   What has he meant to this offense and how do you see his role in this game?  
BARRETT JONES:   It's no secret that he's our most valuable player on offense.   I think more than that, he really is just a great team player.   You think of Trent, he's a guy that I love blocking for just because of the way he approaches the game.   
There's not many people who could have sat by for two years and kind of played behind Mark, where he probably could have started anywhere else.   And I think for that reason the way he was a teammate and showed that patience, we were all really excited for this year where he could kind of get his turn to shine in the spotlight.   And he's done a great job of that.   
And obviously I think it's going to be extremely important for us to get him going in this game, and as an offensive line we know that's our responsibility.   
So really excited that Trent's getting this opportunity, and glad to be there right alongside him.  
JIM MCELWAIN:   I'll second that.   And just an unselfish guy.   And I'm glad he's on our team.  
   
 Q.   Can you describe, from the players, of what he's like as a coach?   And for Coach McElwain, can you describe what type of an offensive coach you are?   What are some of the things you like to get accomplished that we don't have the inside access to?  
JIM MCELWAIN:   I'll let these guys have a chance to take a shot at me.   Go ahead.   
MARQUIS MAZE:   Man, he's fiery.   Fiery guy.   I love him.   I think we all love him.   Great coach.   Going to be a great coach at Colorado State.   And I wouldn't want to go in this game with him‑‑ I mean without him.   My bad.   And I love him.   And I feel like he love us.   And he tell us what we're doing wrong.   He will get on us no matter from Trent, myself, Barrett, anybody on offense.   He really get on them, even the scout team guys he get on them.   So he's always hollering.   
So sometimes we have to keep him up.   We have a little thing where we put our hands up.   Sometimes we have to grab Coach's hand and pull his up some days at practice.  
BARRETT JONES:   I think the biggest thing about coach Mack is I think he's a teacher first.   He's a great teacher of the game.   And he really‑‑ I think you can tell he really has a passion for that.   That's what he really loves to do is teach kids like us the game.   And he's extremely gifted at that, and just the way he breaks down offenses and helps us understand it.   
Second thing is definitely his passion.   He's extremely passionate about Alabama, about us as people.   And he always knows what we need.   If we're getting too confident, he's going to be there to bring us down.   If we're dragging a little bit, he's going to be there to motivate us.  
So we've loved being under him.   I've been under him my whole career.   And what a great offensive coordinator, and I'm really going to miss him.  
JIM MCELWAIN:   You know, just because of what they said, don't think you're getting off easy this week, okay?   
   
 Q.   There's intense coaches and laid‑back coaches, and there's no doubt that Nick Saban is on the intense side of that spectrum.   What is it about Coach Saban that you two players really say this is the guy that I want to play for?  
MARQUIS MAZE:   Just his approach to the game.   I don't think nobody approach the game like Coach Saban.   He approach the game full attack.   He never look a day further.   He's going on that day.   
So I think his approach to the game and his intensity.   And that's what he instills in all of us, that intensity and his playing style.  
BARRETT JONES:   I think the best way to put it is when you're getting recruited you go around to a lot of different places and you hear every coach sitting in their office tell you that they're going to win a lot of games and you're going to be a big part of that, but when Coach Saban tells it to you, you believe him.   He looks you in the eyes and says:   We're going to win championships.   And he lays out a specific plan how he's going to do it.   And I think that's what guys buy into.   
I know me, personally, I knew when he told me that we definitely were going to win championships, and that's what's happened.   And it's been great to play for a guy like that who has a specific vision and really knows how to get there, who has done it before.   
And another thing, he's not quite as‑‑ he's very intense, but he also does joke around some.   When you guys aren't looking.   But he is sometimes laid back and easy to talk to.  
   
 Q.   Marquis and Jim, Marquis, did Claiborne cover you much in the first matchup?   And if you could tell me a little bit about his skill set as a corner.   And for Jim, you've seen a lot of good corners in the SEC.   Could you stack Claiborne up and talk about his specific skills that make it unique?  
MARQUIS MAZE:   In the first game, I think he's a left corner or a right corner, I'm not sure, but he really didn't go with me much.   He just stayed on his side.   He's a physical guy.   Long arms.   Like the quick jam.   Just all‑around great player.   And I'm looking forward to the challenge.  
JIM MCELWAIN:   Well, you know how that guy stacks up, I think was your question.   I'll be glad not to play against him again.   The guy's pretty good.   
   
 Q.   Coach Mack, how much do you look at the last tape and take the good from it and implement it into this game plan, and how do you keep from overpreparing with this long time off?  
JIM MCELWAIN:   That's a great question.   I think sometimes as coaches we have‑‑ obviously we've had 40 whatever days since we've played.   And kind of making sure you don't put too much in and think about from that standpoint.   
But I think it's a great learning tool from every year we've played against this defense and against the guys that they had.   Obviously we made some mistakes in the first game, and those were things that you always try to correct no matter what game it is.   And then move forward.  
And I think spending too much time in the past sometimes.   We've got to look forward and get ready to just play it with whatever we have.  
   
 Q.   In particular, when you look back at the first game, were there things you look at when you get in scoring position, red zone, especially?  
JIM MCELWAIN:   Yeah, you know, that was obviously a frustration for us.   And I think that has a lot to do with‑‑ not only with what we didn't do, but obviously what they did.   
Like I said, I can't say enough how much respect we have for them as a defense.   And when you look at the lack of plays down in the red area from accumulation of a full season, kind of tells you how good that defense is.  
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT