SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 13, 2012
Tadd Fujikawa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Quite a finish there at the end.   Talk about your round. 
TADD FUJIKAWA:   Yeah.   It was a good round.   I drove the ball pretty well all day, put myself in some good positions, and hit my irons pretty good.   I had a few missed shots here and there.   But I didn't really make any putts up until the last couple holes. 
You know, I played pretty solid, and it was a pretty stress‑free round. 

Q.   More Waialae magic.   Tell me about those last two holes. 
TADD FUJIKAWA:   It was good because I birdied 17, so I knew I was pretty much safe from making the cut.   Just kind of let it loose on the last hole.   So it was fun.   Obviously I always enjoy playing here, and I'm very blessed and thankful to everyone that supported me and helped me get into this event.

Q.   What is it about this place?   You look so comfortable.   You look around at the gallery every now and then and you really soak up the energy. 
TADD FUJIKAWA:   Yeah, I think it's just because it's in Hawai'i, and I know a lot of people here.   My family and my friends are following me and supporting me, so I think that's what helps me a lot. 
You know, along with the guys that I played with today and yesterday, I know Tommy really well.   We played mini‑Tours together two years ago, and he's like a father to me.   I think that made it a lot easier, having someone that I'm comfortable with.   And Richard was great, too.   It's the first time I've met him, but he's a great guy, and the caddies were great, too.   I had a great time. 

Q.   You know, that being said, now you get to move on to weekend play, which you're no stranger to.   What can you derive from your last time out here?
TADD FUJIKAWA:   Well, hopefully I can shoot another 62.   That would be great.   But I just want to go out there and enjoy myself, kind of like I did today and yesterday, don't stress myself out over anything, just have fun, go play my game and see what happens. 

Q.   Do you feel like spending time as a professional now has kind of helped you?   You definitely do seem a lot more casual. 
TADD FUJIKAWA:   Yeah, yeah.   I mean, playing tournaments and just being kind of in this atmosphere more, it makes you more comfortable in these situations.   That said, it really, really helps.   The more experience I get, the better I'm going to be at it. 

Q.   What did you do to get it back after 18?
TADD FUJIKAWA:   I hit a good putt, it was actually just a little short, and then the second putt I hit pretty solid, just hit it a little too hard so it didn't break.   I told myself I hit two good shots to get there and hit two pretty good putts, it's just one was a little too hard and one was a little too soft.   I told myself, just keep hitting good putts, keep hitting my lines, and sooner or later they'll drop. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
TADD FUJIKAWA:   Yeah, I think that was really important because it kind of got me‑‑ well, after the birdie on 3, I was two shots basically inside the cut.   That kind of made me more comfortable out there.   I made a bogey on the next hole, which I wasn't too happy about, either.   But I was pretty comfortable with what I was doing, and I was playing well.   I was hitting the ball well, too, so that helps. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT