SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 11, 2008
Tadd Fujikawa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DOUG MILNE:  Tadd, thanks for joining us here in the media center at the Sony Open in Hawai'i.  Bad news is you didn't make the cut, but you gave it a really valiant effort, and you had so much support, not just from the thousands of fans out here but the players, as well.  Jerry Kelly came up there, all totally supportive of you, and that's got to make you feel good and give you the inspiration you need to keep moving forward.   
 TADD FUJIKAWA:  Yeah, it does.  I'm so grateful for all the support that I get from the players and the fans and my family and friends.  But unfortunately I didn't make the cut today, but I gave it a good run.  I didn't want it to end, but I had fun, and I really enjoyed myself this week.   
  
  Q.  When did you figure it was gone?   
 TADD FUJIKAWA:  Well, I pretty much knew it was gone when I doubled 6.  You know, that was a careless mistake.  I was trying to hit it too close on my second shot, and I kind of pushed it way, way, way to the right and had a bad lie in the rough and then hit it in the bunker and hit a bad bunker shot.   
 But I think things like that come with experience, and the two double bogeys I made this week was because of two mental errors.  If I didn't have those two errors, I would have had a good chance to make the cut, and I think my momentum would have been a little better.   
 DOUG MILNE:  So what's the plan from here?   
 TADD FUJIKAWA:  Well, I'm going to still try to get sponsors' exemptions on pretty much every Tour, play as much as I can.  I go to Pebble Beach in February, and really looking forward to that, very prestigious course and it's a pretty big tournament, so it should be fun.  Hopefully I can get my game ready and maybe shoot a few good numbers.   
 DOUG MILNE:  We had Kevin Na in here previously and your name came up and he's a big supporter of yours, and his advice to you was just to get out there and play as much as you can on as many different tours as you can.  You're such a likable kid that that's going to work to your advantage when you're looking for sponsor exemptions, so also that's something to motivate you to get out there, whether it's here in the U.S. or Nationwide Tour or Asian Tour, whatever it may be.   
 TADD FUJIKAWA:  Exactly.  I've talked to him a little bit, and that's exactly what he said.  Just get out there, play as much as you can, get as much experience as you can, and in the long run it's really going to help.  That's what I'm going to try to do, just try to go out there, have fun and do the best that I can.  Hopefully I can get my TOUR card maybe by next year.  If not then I'm going to have to earn my way in some other way.   
 Hopefully I can do it.  I think I can.  I believe in myself and my ability.  I'm really looking forward to just coming out and playing well.   
  
  Q.  What was the difference this year from last year if there was one thing?  Was it just not getting the putts to go down when you really needed them?   
 TADD FUJIKAWA:  Yeah, I think I just got off to a really bad start yesterday, kind of ruined my round.  You know, I've struggled with that recently, starting off well, and I just need to learn how to handle that aspect of starting.   
 You know, I think that's the main thing that really was the difference between this year and last year.  The other thing is the front nine kind of kills me for some reason.  I need to work on that, the front nine out here.  I'm not sure why, but I just can't shoot a good score on the front nine.   
  
  Q.  Were you surprised at how much bigger the crowd was today?   
 TADD FUJIKAWA:  Yeah, I was.  It was pretty amazing.  It was really nice to see how many people supported me.  You know, I really had a lot of fun.  I had a few good shots today, had a few good cheers, and I really enjoyed myself.   
  
  Q.  Did you get the sense that it was getting smaller as the day went on, or did it stay pretty big?   
 TADD FUJIKAWA:  It stayed pretty much the same until maybe 6.  Yeah, pretty much.   
 DOUG MILNE:  Tadd, thank you for coming in.  We certainly look forward to seeing much more of you on the road.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT