SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 10, 2008
Tadd Fujikawa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Talk a little bit about your day, 4-over, 74.   
 TADD FUJIKAWA:  I had a rough day today.  Front nine didn't go so well.  Got off to a rough start, made a few bad decisions on shot-making and misread a few putts and just kind of couldn't get any momentum.   
 When I got to the back nine, then it started feeling a little bit better, then started playing better.  Finished 74.  Got to shoot a good round tomorrow to make the cut.  I think I can do it.  Anything is possible.  I just need to go out there, play my game and see what happens.   
  
  Q.  You had so much success here in 2007.  Is it hard to go around this golf course and say, I remember birdieing here, I remember playing well on this hole, and not staying in the present as TOUR players like to say?   
 TADD FUJIKAWA:  Yeah, it is, a little bit.  But I think that's what makes golf so hard.  You need to do what you need to do, and if you need to just stay in the present and take it shot by shot, then you need to do that.   
  
  Q.  You have so much support from the galleries here.   
 TADD FUJIKAWA:  Yeah, it's been great.  Considering I was playing so bad, my galleries were amazing.  To see how many people support me, I think it's really awesome, and I'd really like to thank everyone for all their support.   
  
  Q.  I know no one enjoys shooting 4-over par, but you seem to have a good attitude.   
 TADD FUJIKAWA:  Thank you so much.  I do my best.   
  
  Q.  Tell us about your round today.   
 TADD FUJIKAWA:  It went all right.  I had a rough start, doubled No. 2 and misread a few putts here and there.  It was actually pretty close to going in on a few of them and just got unlucky on a few shots.   
 The back nine I started playing a lot better and I felt better about my game.   
  
  Q.  How were the conditions different this year from last?   
 TADD FUJIKAWA:  It was a little different wind and the course was playing a little longer.  It's starting to rain right now, and it's playing just a little tougher, I think, than last year.  But I think everyone is playing the same conditions so you can't complain about it.   
  
  Q.  Rough a little deeper?   
 TADD FUJIKAWA:  Yeah, I forgot about that.  I tried to forget about the rough.  Yeah, I mean, it's pretty deep.  You need to do your best to stay in the fairway this week, and if you do, you're going to have a good chance of shooting under par.   
  
  Q.  Do you feel any pressure to duplicate what you did last year?   
 TADD FUJIKAWA:  A little bit, but I don't really try to think about that too much.  I just try to take it shot by shot and stick to my game.   
  
  Q.  How did the birdie on 17 feel?   
 TADD FUJIKAWA:  It was pretty good after all my bogeys and double bogeys.  A birdie feels pretty good.   
  
  Q.  Do you feel like if you can attack that back nine tomorrow you have a pretty good chance of making the cut?   
 TADD FUJIKAWA:  I think so.  If I can play the way I did today and not make so many careless mistakes, I think I'll be right in there tomorrow, and hopefully I can do that.   
 I'm going to do some practicing right now.  My ball-striking wasn't up to where I want it at, and I just need to, I think, work on that a little bit and hopefully I can be set for tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT