CHILDREN'S MIRACLE NETWORK CLASSIC PRESENTED BY WAL-MART
October 30, 2007
Tadd Fujikawa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   STEWART MOORE:  We'd like top welcome Tadd Fujikawa to the interview room here at the Children's Miracle Network Classic.  (No audio).   
 TADD FUJIKAWA:  It's actually really good.  I've been learning a lot.  I've been gaining some experience out here on tour.  I've been meeting a lot of the pros.  I made some really good friends, and it's been really good.   
 I'm really looking forward to this week.  Going to go up to Disney and the Children's Miracle Network, we're really excited.  I'm excited.  I don't know about my mom, but I'm really excited this week.  I think it kind of fits in with my age and my stature, I guess.  I'm really excited about this week.   
 STEWART MOORE:  If you could, talk about some of these events, do you still get a little awe struck when some of the best players in the world?  Or do you get more comfortable and more acclimated as each week goes by?   
 TADD FUJIKAWA:  I'm getting really comfortable around these guys.  I think in the beginning I was kind of like, okay, this is kind of weird.  I never really hit balls next to Vijay or Tiger or Ernie.  But I think now I'm really getting more comfortable around these guys.   
 I'm meeting a lot more of them now.  I'm actually having a Tour caddie caddie for me this week.  So he knows a lot of guys and it definitely helps when you have somebody on the bag that knows the course and knows some of the guys out here.   
 STEWART MOORE:  If you could briefly explain your relationship with the Children's Miracle Network, and obviously your sponsor's exemption this week.  If you could briefly go over that story.   
 TADD FUJIKAWA:  Well, the Children's Miracle Network from what I've heard supports hospitals.  And it supported my hospital that I was born at.  And I think that's pretty cool that they've actually helped me when I was born.   
 I talked to one of the guys, and he said that I was actually their first pick as a sponsor's exemption.  And I found that pretty cool.   
 I'm really lucky to get these sponsor's exemptions.  I know a lot of guys out here are sending in a lot of letters and trying to get them.  And I'm lucky I've gotten like six or seven so far that I've accepted.   
 It's really good that I get the support of the people out here.  I'm really feeling excited about this week.  You know, I've got a lot of fans this week, so I'm looking forward to it.   
  
  Q.  Talk about the glamour us life of being a PGA pro, obviously.  It's not that glamorous.  You're lugging your clubs through airports and stuff.  What's that been like?  How has it been different from what you experienced?   
 TADD FUJIKAWA:  It's almost exactly how I thought it was.  I think in the beginning you're going to have troubles with making cuts, of course.  You're new to the tour.  You're new to playing the courses.  You've never seen the courses before, and it's tough.  Players out here are good, they definitely show it.   
 You look at the scores and sometimes they're not the lowest scores, but you actually go on the course and look at the conditions, and it's tough.  I think I've learned a lot about my game so far as a professional.   
 I'm learning about what choices I need to make out on the golf course.  You know, based on whether I should go for it, or whether I should lay-up.  And what I need to work on on my game and what needs improvement.   
 I think it's been exactly as I thought it has been.  I think that sometimes I go out there and it's tough.  I'm learning a lot about my game, and I'm definitely improving.   
  
  Q.  Obviously, you have to travel to go anywhere.  But you're talking now about traveling a lot, has that been an adjustment?   
 TADD FUJIKAWA:  It has a little bit.  I traveled before, but not this much.  It's tough traveling overseas all the time.  But I'm getting used to it, and it's getting a lot easier.   
  
  Q.  Can you talk about the courtesy cars, too?  Are you able to drive those?   
 TADD FUJIKAWA:  No, no, no.   
  
  Q.  You have a couple years to go yet, right?   
 TADD FUJIKAWA:  Yeah, I think you need to be 18 to actually drive one.   
  
  Q.  Do you have your license yet or anything?   
 TADD FUJIKAWA:  No, I don't have my license, and I don't have my permit either.  I'm old enough, but I'm too lazy to drive.  So my mom keeps on bugging me about it, but I don't want to get one, and I don't want to drive.  I mean, that's the only time I get to rest is in the car, so I'm all for that.   
  
  Q.  Most 16-year-olds are already bugging their parents to get them the car before they have a license.  You're the opposite?   
 TADD FUJIKAWA:  I'm so busy.  The only place I go is the golf course and school and home.  It's the only place that I go, so I'm not driving to too many places, and I can't go to too many places by myself.  And I don't want to.  This is what I want to do.  I have to make sacrifices, and I'm willing to make those sacrifices.   
  
  Q.  Next thing you know you will have your own personal driver?   
 TADD FUJIKAWA:  You know, I'm hoping that that comes my way, hopefully.  But as of right now it's not a priority.   
 STEWART MOORE:  Did you finish your math homework?   
 TADD FUJIKAWA:  I did some of it last night.  I did some of it.  I didn't finish it all, but I did some of my homework last night.   
  
  Q.  You have time.  Was it any accident that you were paired with Parker, or did you know that?   
 TADD FUJIKAWA:  I had absolutely no idea.  It's pretty cool.  Two guys from Hawaii playing together.  I think two weeks ago it was two short guys playing together, so.   
 I mean, he's still taller than me.   
  
  Q.  Who was it?   
 TADD FUJIKAWA:  Gavin Coles.  It was fun though.  It was fun.  I think it's just a coincidence.   
  
  Q.  How much do you know Parker?   
 TADD FUJIKAWA:  I don't know him too --   
  
  Q.  (Indiscernible)?   
 TADD FUJIKAWA:  I'm really not sure.  I don't even know him too well.  I see him at some tournaments and we always say hi.  We talk a little bit, but we don't hang out or anything.   
  
  Q.  What is your home course?   
 TADD FUJIKAWA:  Most of my golf I play kind of all over the place.  I don't really like staying at one course.  I have a few places that I go to in Hawaii.  It's good to always have a little different view of practicing.   
  
  Q.  What are some of the courts?   
 TADD FUJIKAWA:  I go to Honolulu Country Club at home.  Sometimes I go to Koa Lahaina (sic).  Those are the two main courses that I go to.  I go to a few more, but those are the ones most of the time.   
  
  Q.  Have to have privileges to play most of those courses increased for you?   
 TADD FUJIKAWA:  Yes, I mean they've all the courses in Hawaii have been really helpful to me, even when I was an amateur.  But I think as I turn pro, you know, they've definitely kind of helped me more, I think.   
 Sometimes I go to Wailea and I practice there, but I know a few people there, and they're always willing to let me play.  So it's good.  It's really helping my game.   
  
  Q.  Have you asked for an exemption for Sony?   
 TADD FUJIKAWA:  Yes, I have.   
  
  Q.  Have you heard back yet?   
 TADD FUJIKAWA:  I'm not sure yet.  Hopefully.   
  
  Q.  I'd like to get back to the discussion about being 16 having a driver's license, 16, teenage boys, teenage girls.  So if you have time for a date, does that mean that you'll leave the driving.   
 TADD FUJIKAWA:  That's a good question.  I'll have to wait and see as that opportunity comes along.  But for now I'm just going to try to concentrate on my game, and just, I don't know.  Maybe she'll have to drive me.  I don't know.  We'll see.  I can drive a golf cart.  That works.   
  
  Q.  What are your plans for the rest of this year and next year?  Where do you want to play next year?   
 TADD FUJIKAWA:  I'm too young this year to play Q-school.  So I'm going to have to wait until next year to play Q-school.  Then I'm going to play in the Casio World Open in November, I think.  In a few weeks in Japan.   
 I don't know what happens after that, but I'm just going to try to get sponsors exemptions, and just get some experience and get out here and play some golf.   
  
  Q.  There's not one specific tour you're trying to get on next year?  Like Hooters or anything?   
 TADD FUJIKAWA:  No, I'm just going to try to play well so I can get sponsors exemptions.   
  
  Q.  I just like saying the word Hooters?   
 TADD FUJIKAWA:  Yeah, I don't blame you (laughing).   
  
  Q.  How are you playing right now?   
 TADD FUJIKAWA:  Playing good.  I'm feeling good about my game.  It's definitely improving.  My coach came out this afternoon and worked a few hours.  He said that I'm right on track, so feeling pretty confident about my game.  Make a few putts, and I should be right there, hopefully.   
 STEWART MOORE:  You certainly have a lot of fans this week.  Best of luck to you.   
 TADD FUJIKAWA:  Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT