SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 5, 2011
Jasmine Hassell
Andy Landers
Porsha Phillips
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 THE MODERATOR: We're joined by Georgia. We'll turn it over to Coach Landers for an opening statement about today's game. 
 COACH LANDERS: Well, there's not a whole lot that you can say other than they whipped us. You know, we, for much of the day, did some of what we needed to do. But when you have breakdowns doing what you need to do to be successful against a team as good as Tennessee, you pay for those. 
 I thought our inability to box out particularly Glory on the offensive board and Stricklen early on the offensive board, really created problems for us. 
 Even in the second half when we had gotten it to 12. We let that happen again. Our inability to get up and defend the three hurt us. You know, I mean, they play with a lot of enthusiasm, a lot of tempo, aggressiveness. Whipped us. 
 THE MODERATOR: We'll have opening statements from our student-athletes. Porsha, your thoughts on today's game? 
 PORSHA PHILLIPS: I think Tennessee came out with a lot of energy tonight. I think we gave up a lot of three-point shots. We gave up a lot of offensive rebounds and offensive put-backs. 
 THE MODERATOR: Jasmine? 
 JASMINE HASSELL: I agree with Porsha. I feel like they got a lot of offensive rebounds. The three-pointers killed us. They just wanted it more than we did. 
 THE MODERATOR: We'll have questions for the student-athletes. 

 Q. Especially in their zone, how long and how strong are they inside? 
 JASMINE HASSELL: They're big, but they're easy to steal, you know, just going in there and finding them. It's not really a big deal. They just execute on the offensive end. 
 PORSHA PHILLIPS: I think Hassell did a great job tonight putting her body into them, scoring, finishing the shot. I think that helped us a lot. 
 It wasn't enough. We should have posted up harder and been more physical. 

 Q. Can you talk about the first few minutes of the game. Were your struggles coming from what they were showing you on defense, or was it just you weren't quite settled down yet? 
 PORSHA PHILLIPS: I don't know. I think we wasn't very comfortable in the offense yet. We didn't settle down. I think we didn't keep up the offense as fast as we could. 
 JASMINE HASSELL: I felt like it wasn't our offense. I think the defensive end, they got like two offensive put-backs and on open three. I think that killed us because we were playing the defense, but we wasn't blocking out. They got the rebound and put it back in. 
 THE MODERATOR: Ladies, we'll excuse you and continue with questions for Coach Landers. 

 Q. Andy, you've seen Tennessee teams a lot over the years. Where do you compare this team? How far do you think they can go? 
 COACH LANDERS: Well, they're one of the most talented basketball teams in the country. You know, they may be the most talented team in the country. 
 But when you say 'compare them,' I'm sure Pat could do that much, much better than I could because she works with them on a day-to-day basis. What you see when you go watch a team play doesn't always tell the whole story. 
 I don't know how they're woven in terms of their work ethic and their toughness. I wouldn't have a clue. Pat would have to compare them to other teams. 
 On the surface, I mean, you go down through the roster, is there anybody that's got more good players than that? I don't think there is. 

 Q. Andy, can you also talk about the first few minutes of the game, what you thought. 
 COACH LANDERS: I saw what Hassell saw. I saw us be reasonably good defensively. We still gave up shots, but we didn't box. I know Stricklen ran right by us from the corner right in front of our bench - which would have been right side corner right to the front of the rim - got an offensive rebound, put it back. I mean, just ran right by us. I think that was like the second possession. 
 Then the next couple possessions, I think it was Johnson, same thing. We didn't box. You know, the tough thing about that, I mean, they're not going to be easy to box. I mean, I know they're quick. I got all that. That's not what bothers me. 
 The tough thing about what bothers me about not boxing them out is you work on box-outs almost every single day for this. You know, you don't have to box the bad teams out to beat 'em. 
 But if you have the habit of boxing, then when you get to this, you're in a much better place. That's what concerns me about our team. 
 But you're not interested in our team, you're wanting to know more about Tennessee. Go ahead. 
 THE MODERATOR: Coach, thank you. 
 COACH LANDERS: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT