OMEGA DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 11, 2014
Shanshan Feng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Fantastic round of golf in Dubai.   You must be very pleased with your form so far. 
SHANSHAN FENG:   Yeah, I think yesterday I played really well, and today I didn't make as many birdies as I did yesterday.   But it was a bogey‑free round with five birdies, so I think I did really well. 

Q.   And you're in the perfect position.   Presumably you must be pleased with your position midway through day two. 
SHANSHAN FENG:   Well, I said my goal was top three, and I have a habit that I don't actually look at the leaderboards during the tournament.   I only look at it, check it out, like Sunday afternoon. 
So, while I'm not really trying to guess where I'm at, but I would say I feel comfortable at the position and really looking forward for two more good days.

Q.   This golf course seems to bring out the best in you.   Obviously you won with minus 21 a couple years ago.   What is it about the Emirates Golf Club that you like or perhaps suits your game?
SHANSHAN FENG:   I think it's a great course.   The course is in really good condition.   This year they did move a few tees up, so the course played a little bit shorter. 
I think my iron shots are always pretty accurate, and my putting is always pretty good here.   Well, my putting was a little bit off last year, but then this year it's on again, so I made a lot of putts and I think that's why I play well here.

Q.   And you were playing very well coming into this week, three Top‑10s before you arrived in Dubai.   What do you have to do this weekend to get your hands on the trophy once more?
SHANSHAN FENG:   Well, my goal is just top three, wherever I'm standing but my goal is top three.   If I make it to top three, I'll feel really happy and I'm not really trying to think about winning or anything. 

Q.   The record you set, is that under threat? 
SHANSHAN FENG:   Not really thinking about it.   My plan is to, like I said yesterday, I said if anybody wants to win, I think it needs to get to maybe around 20‑under.   I think, of course, 21‑under‑‑ before the LPGA tournament in China last year, 21‑under was my best for four days.   And of course at Reignwood, I was 26, and I don't know how I did it. 
But I think 21‑under is still my second best finish, second‑best score.   So I would say it's not that easy to break it, and I'm not really going to keep that in my mind.   My plan is just, you know, focus on every shot and if I do, I do. 

Q.   I know you said you don't keep that in your mind, but is that something that maybe the further you get into a tournament, do you think about breaking records and things, or once you've done it, do you sit back and think, that was a pretty good thing to have done? 
SHANSHAN FENG:   Well, of course, I mean, if I do break it, of course it's going to be break.   But the record, I think I beat the record, right.   So that's my record anyway. 
So as long as if not other people break it, it's okay. 

Q.   You were saying you don't look at leaderboards.   Do you look at leaderboards at nighttime when you're finished or do you just ignore them until the end? 
SHANSHAN FENG:   Yeah, until Sunday.   Until like I finish the tournament. 
Of course like two years ago when I was in the last group and people keep telling me:   "You're leading by five, you're leading by five, you're going to go for the win." 
I'm like, thanks for telling me.   But in that situation, of course I'll know where I'm at, but I've been in that position quite a few times so I think I can handle the pressure.

Q.   How do you switch off on a Saturday night if you know that you're leading or if you have a feeling that you're leading a tournament, how do you stay away from all the commotion in the media that comes with it? 
SHANSHAN FENG:   Well, it doesn't really matter.   I mean, of course somebody is going to tell me.   But I'm not going to keep that in mind.   And it doesn't matter, you know, if you're leading after second round or third round.   The most important is you have to be leading after fourth round.   So I don't think that really matters. 

Q.   When people say you're six shots off the lead, five shots off the lead‑‑ five shots in the lead‑‑
SHANSHAN FENG:   Oh, then somebody needs to be 16, 17 (laughter). 

Q.   Exactly.   If someone is telling you that you're six shots in the lead, is it more about where your game is, where you are than where necessarily the opposition are? 
SHANSHAN FENG:   I would say so.   I just focus on my game.   But I do think that when you are leading by like maybe more than three shots, then everybody will actually expect you to win.   So actually that will give‑‑ I think that will give the player more pressure. 
But I feel more comfortable, like being maybe one or two behind, because I've had quite a few times that actually came from behind to catch up and to win. 
But it doesn't really matter.   I just play my game and if I lead, I lead. 

Q.   Having seen the course both days and in the morning and afternoon, can you see somebody maybe posting a similar score to you? 
SHANSHAN FENG:   Sure, I think so.   Well, I think somebody's going to make a lot of birdies.   I didn't look at the board but I'm guessing there are many, many good scores yesterday, and I'm assuming there will be some today, too. 
And, well, I won't be really surprised if somebody just pass me. 

Q.   What do you think about the concept of moving day on the Saturday?   Is that something that you think is true?   Because to me, I always think, it doesn't matter what day you shoot a good score, you're going to go up. 
SHANSHAN FENG:   To me, no, I don't really put that in my mind.   But I do know that, you know, Saturday is‑‑ usually after two days, people make the cut and then actually their pressure is off and then Saturday is maybe a day to shoot low scores.   But to me, it's not really different. 

Q.   Maybe players on the cut line, they relax?
SHANSHAN FENG:   Yeah, a lot of them, and they shoot like 9‑, 10‑unders. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT