OMEGA DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 10, 2014
Shanshan Feng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   It was an excellent way to finish your round, 6‑under, joint leader, pretty much exactly what you would have hoped for today?
SHANSHAN FENG:   Well, actually, first of all, I really like this course and I always finish pretty well here.   This year coming in, I set my goal, I said maybe top three.   And I would say 6‑under is a pretty good start and I'm really happy about it.

Q.   It's refreshing to hear you say you set a target of top three, a lot of golfers say they just want to do well or make the cut but as a former champion you have higher expectations? 
SHANSHAN FENG:   No, I won't say that.   I played twice and I had one win and one Top‑5 last year, and I would say top three will make me really happy.   But I mean, I'm not really giving myself too much pressure.   I think I didn't just try my best on every shot, hopefully see you guys after every round here and I'll be happy.

Q.   How is the golf course playing later in the day?
SHANSHAN FENG:   Oh, the golf course is in fantastic condition.   The grass is great.   I think always in the afternoon, we have a little wind, which we played a little tougher today with the wind.   But I think it's great, and I think it's kind of challenging. 
This year they did move a few tees up actually, so it made the golf course a little bit shorter, which is good for the short hitters and it's easier for us to make more birdies. 

Q.   I know you weren't feeling well yesterday.   How did it affect you?
SHANSHAN FENG:   Well, we are professionals so when we are working, we don't talk about if we are sick or anything.   I think did well today. 

Q.   Was it something that maybe jeopardised you playing this week or was it just something that you needed to get over very quickly?
SHANSHAN FENG:   Well, it feels weird, because like last‑‑ well, I don't want to, you know, find excuses for myself.   I'll tell you after the tournament finishes because I don't want it to be mentioned and people will just will think, oh, she's trying to find an excuse.   I'll talk about it after.

Q.   Did it surprise you that you started so well; that you managed to put that to one side and play as well as you did today?
SHANSHAN FENG:   Well, I didn't have any pressure playing the round today.   I would say they moved a few tees up, which are on the longer par 4, I believe, and they did move one short par 5 a little longer. 
But I think we had so many birdie chances out there and I made seven, which is pretty good, because I think my putting was really working.   If anything, I would say I can work maybe a little harder on my driving.

Q.   You are the highest‑ranked player in the field.   When you come into a tournament like this, being the highest‑ranked player, everyone expects you to do well.   Is it an extra bit of pressure on you? 
SHANSHAN FENG:   Not really because nobody's told me that they expect me to do well.   Well, I would say, you know, the LET has many strong players, and I think especially this week, because it's one of the biggest tournaments on the LET.   This is the last tournament for a lot of girls, and a lot of the good players, like good European players, they actually came back from the LPGA to play in this one.   So I would say the field is actually pretty strong.

Q.   It's quite difficult to make a move, or such a strong move as you did in the afternoon.   An all lot of the good scoring comes in the morning.   Does that give you confidence for tomorrow when you are going to be teeing off earlier, you can build upon 6‑under par? 
SHANSHAN FENG:   Well, I wasn't really thinking about it.   I mean, sometimes if it's windy, of course it's tougher to have a good score.   But sometimes, you know, with no wind, you actually don't play as well. 
So I think this is golf and I'm not thinking that maybe I'll play even better tomorrow, but I do think that if this week, if somebody wants to have a chance to win, I think the score will maybe be closer to 20‑under. 

Q.   Do you feel that because you're a top‑ranked player, because you've won here and you played so well here last year, do you think girls seeing you at the top of the leaderboard might be intimidating for them?   Do you feel as if you could to be‑‑ they could she you as, oh, Shanshan is at the top of the leaderboard. 
SHANSHAN FENG:   I wouldn't say that.   Well, of course, I don't play on the LET that often, but I still play.   I played in Hainan this year and I did not too well, and I do have some friend on the Tour and I'm not like a person that has a really strong personality.   I'm really easygoing, so I have a lot of friends here‑‑ well, I guess maybe they like me.   It wouldn't really surprise them or make them feel like, oh, I have to beat her or anything like that.   It's good competition. 

Q.   The last couple of years you've come here, you've made a point of saying Top‑5, Top‑5, and in an interview there, you said top three very pointedly.   Is that a sign that you're setting your goals higher; as your career goes on you're feeling more confident or ambitious? 
SHANSHAN FENG:   No, it's just a feel before the tournament started.   I say it but it's not really in my mind when I play.   So at the end of the tournament, I'll have a result, and of course if I make it to the top three, I'll be really happy, but even though I'm just Top‑10, I'm still okay. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT