OMEGA DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 13, 2014
Shanshan Feng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Rounds of 66, 67,66 and 70 for 19‑under par total this week, and your second OMEGA Dubai Ladies Masters victory in three years.   How does it feel?   
SHANSHAN FENG:   Well, of course I feel really happy, because like you said, it's my second time to win here, and the staff just told me I'm actually one of the two people that has won twice here, and the other one is Annika.   So it makes me like feel really proud of myself.  
A win to conclude the season, of course, is a very good way.   I think I'm just so ready to rest right now.   
THE MODERATOR:   You held a share of the lead after the first round, and then out right led second round, extended that on the third day.   Did you have a target today?   
SHANSHAN FENG:   Well, actually, I thought about it last night, because I knew I was five shots ahead.   But you know, if somebody like plays really well, shoots like a very low score today, still has a chance to catch me, and what my mind‑set should be.   
So I actually thought about, okay, I think if I would get to 22 under, then I didn't think anybody would catch up.   So I was going for 22, but of course I didn't.   I still think I did well.   
THE MODERATOR:   You promised us before the tournament, on the first day, you would tell us, you had a little illness before‑‑ is that still a secret that you want to keep?   
SHANSHAN FENG:   It wasn't like a very big deal.   I mean, I got food poisoning just the night after I got here, and then my stomach was cramping like really bad that I couldn't fall asleep.   
Then I came to the first day, the doctor gave me names of the medicine to by, and then I went to pharmacy, got the medicine and started to take them.   It felt a little better on‑‑ let me think, maybe Tuesday?   No, it was better on Monday.   
But then for somehow, I don't know what I ate on Monday night, it got worse.   So Tuesday, the Pro‑Am day, I was so sick, but I still finished the whole Pro‑Am.   But after nine holes, I was like this, like low battery.   I told my caddie, I said, "I'm running out of energy."   But still finished it.   
Well, I didn't have any expectation before the tournament started, because I thought, you know, with like the condition, like how my body was, I didn't think I was going to do well.   And then actually my body got a lot better and then ended up winning.   So I think that's a good break.  
   
 Q.   You and Annika have now won the title twice, can you say what that means to you?  
SHANSHAN FENG:   I would say, of course, being a part of the OMEGA team, I'm really happy that I'm able to win twice here.   I would say, you know, when you actually put your name up with Annika any time, I think it's a good sign and it's a good feeling.   
So I would say‑‑ well, I don't know if Annika is going to come anymore, but I'm going to keep coming.   So maybe I have a chance to be the only one, you know.   
   
 Q.   You had a fantastic season and you've been very solid throughout the year.   What are your plans now for 2015?   Is being world No. 1, would that be your goal?  
SHANSHAN FENG:   Well, people keep asking the same question.   To me, you know, I don't really like to set goals like with numbers.   I don't try to think about, I want to be world No. 1.   But maybe at the same time, I would say, oh, I think right now, Inbee is like the target that I want to catch up with, and she's the No. 1 right now.   So that's actually another way to set up the target for me.   
But I would say, of course, I had a win to finish the season, I'm really happy and I feel really comfortable going into the 2015 season.   But my dad told me, you know, if you just keep winning every year, that's good enough.   
So just don't give yourself too much pressure.   This year before the season started, I said, I wanted to win three times on the LPGA but I only did one.   And then I was a little disappointed when my dad said, you've won on the LPGA like three years in a row, so that's pretty good already.   So I was like, okay, I'll take that.   
   
 Q.   How does this victory compare to your victory in 2012?   Is it sweeter?   Is it better?   Obviously you came in last year as the defending champion and you relinquished your title.   How does it feel to get it back?  
SHANSHAN FENG:   I think last year before I came, like two weeks before I came, I just won the CME Championship on the LPGA, and then I had to do a lot of media stuff after that.   Then I took my time like to kind of rest a little bit before I came over, and then I think after winning a tournament, and then you are being the defending champion for the next one, actually I think maybe I gave myself too much pressure.   Like I had too much like thinking in my head.   So I didn't really perform very well.   
But I'm really happy that actually I've done well this year and I would say actually it's pretty similar.   I think two years ago, I was leading every day, too, and I had five strokes into the final round, too.   
So I basically did the same thing and of course a win feels‑‑ it feels as good as two years ago.   But I would say, yeah, I'm really happy and I'll have a chance to maybe come back next year again.   
   
 Q.   What do you feel you need to do next year to be better than this year and continue improving?   What was it you want to work on?   Do you feel you're maybe not where you want to be?   
SHANSHAN FENG:   I think my putting was pretty good‑‑ well, I think every part of my game was not bad.   And this course, you know, we just have so many birdie chances, and I think the most important thing is just mental because you have to be used to shoot low scores on this course to have a chance to win, and I think that's what I'm kind of good at.   
I think next year when I come back, I just want to be fresh.   I don't want to give myself pressure again and hopefully I just play as good as what I do this year.   
   
 Q.   When you won in 2012, you said you were going to treat yourself to something really nice.   Have you got any idea what you're going to treat yourself to celebrate this time?  
SHANSHAN FENG:   I don't know, but my plan was actually going to shopping right after this.   So I don't think I'm going to spend a lot of money, but I love shopping and I've been to the Emirates Mall a few times and Dubai Mall, there are too many shops in there, I don't know.   But I think I just made a big cheque, so I think I'm able to get something.   
THE MODERATOR:   Enjoy your shopping and enjoy your break.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT