LPGA KEB HANABANK CHAMPIONSHIP
October 15, 2014
Shanshan Feng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Shanshan, take me through the past couple of days.   You obviously had to be very happy with the win. 
SHANSHAN FENG:   Well, of course I was really happy, because you know, since the last win, it's been almost a year, and my goal was to win three times this year.   And when I had five to go, I had no win.   I actually had an interview early in Malaysia and they asked me about it, and I was like, well, if I want to achieve my goal, I have to make something happen.   So I got 1‑down and four to go tournaments. 

Q.   You had two late wins last year, too.   Do you think it's‑‑
SHANSHAN FENG:   Maybe.

Q.   Close out the season strong, do you think that's a trend or coincidence? 
SHANSHAN FENG:   It's not really something I think about.   I think it's one of the reasons why I did so bad in Beijing.   Well, I played really bad that week, so I know going into Malaysia, I didn't have any pressure.   My goal was Top‑10. 
So I did better than Top‑10.   I had no pressure, like even the last day, the last few holes, I was so relaxed.   I don't know why but I was so relaxed.   I enjoyed it. 

Q.   Do you think it was a huge thing to do, leaving Beijing behind and not playing with so much of the hype?   How stressful was that week? 
SHANSHAN FENG:   In Beijing?   A little bit.   I would say I tried not to give myself extra pressure but maybe still like because I was in Beijing and people are around, maybe I still, you know, maybe couldn't concentrate as much as normal.   Yeah, but actually it was funny because last week, it was my first time to travel on my own since I turned pro, no manager.   Everyone was on different flights, either. 

Q.   How did you do? 
SHANSHAN FENG:   It was so funny because I saw Candie Kung Monday afternoon in a mall, and she was like:   "Are you alone?"   She got so nervous, like, "Oh, my God, do I need to maybe call you to wake you up?" 
I'm like, "Take it easy." 

Q.   So are you thinking about not maybe having someone around?   Who is your new manager? 
SHANSHAN FENG:   Well, Ruby is here with me. 

Q.   So she wasn't there last week but came in this week? 
SHANSHAN FENG:   Sunny was the one that was traveling with me in the U.S. but Ruby was supposed to travel with me in Asia.   She had something else to do, so if she would have gone, she would have gone Wednesday night.   I just told her, I'm okay, I take care of myself.   I think it was pretty good. 

Q.   Talk about, I know you said it was your anniversary. 
SHANSHAN FENG:   Three years.   That's where he worked for me the first time. 

Q.   Three years ago in Malaysia? 
SHANSHAN FENG:   Actually it was opposite way, it was Korea and then Malaysia, so he was actually going to caddie for me for both but then his player got in the last minute, so he caddied for me here.   He actually found Morris (ph)‑‑ so he just met me in Malaysia and caddied for me and we made the Top‑10.   I thought he was a pretty good caddie.   I was looking for a caddie and he was looking for a player and I was like, okay, we start next year. 

Q.   You've jumped up in the rankings, Top‑5 now; do you have motivation to jump up in the rankings now?
SHANSHAN FENG:   I'm not thinking about the World Ranking.   All I need to make sure is I can play the Olympics.   But then actually I'm more curious about the CME, the Race to the CME Globe, because I was never in Top‑10 I think the whole year.   I was out of Top‑10 and then now I'm in top nine. 
I know that I like the course last year, so I'm really looking forward.   Only top nine can have a chance, right?   But then they said something like top three can take the money without winning but the rest we have to win? 

Q.   No.   The top three can own their own destiny, so if they are in the top three and win at the CME, they will win the race‑‑ that's how it works.   Everything else will depend on what everybody else does. 
SHANSHAN FENG:   But if they win, of course‑‑ oh, maybe the third‑‑ like maybe not enough points but they still win. 

Q.   Because if you win you get a lot of points. 
SHANSHAN FENG:   It's not necessarily like a rule.   It's just because the points.

Q.   Mathematically that's how it's set up.   Anything for this week?   Comfortable on this course?   Feel good, obviously? 
SHANSHAN FENG:   I mean, kind of took it easy Monday and Tuesday on the back nine.   Went shopping and went to the city yesterday.   The thing is I've never played well in Korea before, never Top‑10.   So I have no pressure at all. 

Q.   What did you buy? 
SHANSHAN FENG:   I got some accessories and some masks and something like that, but actually Ruby got really excited.   I got one small bag and she got four like big bags. 

Q.   What kind of accessories?   Hair?   Electronic? 
SHANSHAN FENG:   Yeah, everything. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT