FUBON LPGA TAIWAN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY TAIWAN MOBILE
October 30, 2014
Shanshan Feng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Take me through your round today.   
SHANSHAN FENG:   I think I did pretty well today.   Overall, a bogey‑free round.   I mean, I started the round, kind of like a smooth start.   And then made a birdie and then I made an eagle on the sixth hole, which really got it started.   Then after that, I was just making putts and my iron game was just as good as normal.   So 8‑under round and with not much wind on the back nine, so I think that was a really good score.   
   
 Q.   How much difference does that make when the wind is down on this course?   It's known to be a pretty windy track?  
SHANSHAN FENG:   Yeah, because I played yesterday and it was so windy yesterday, and I mean, I think they have shortened maybe the distance for the course a little bit because of the wind.   And then because the wind kind of died down, the course was playing kind of short, so it gave us a lot more birdie chances.   
   
 Q.   You've played pretty well throughout the Asian Swing with the wind already.   What's been the key to your game so far during this stretch?   
SHANSHAN FENG:   Well, I think it's my putting, because my long game is always good.   But when my putting is on, I always have a chance to win.   But when the putting is not doing well, then I'm just like so‑so.   I think putting is my key.   
   
 Q.   You have a lot of confidence in your long game with your irons and your driver.   How much confidence does that give you, knowing that those will be on you and just have to roll a couple putts in and you'll have a pretty good round?  
SHANSHAN FENG:   To me, usually I don't need to worry about how many fairways or how many greens I hit and try to get so many up‑and‑downs.   Like usually my normal round is like most of the fairways and greens, and then just maybe a couple times, I need to chip like a couple times around.   
So I feel really confident, like before I get on the greens.   But depends how my putting is.   Like today my putting was really good.   I think my adjustment really worked.   So I was confident on the greens, too.   
   
 Q.   And then what was the adjustment you made with your putting that kind of got it going today?  
SHANSHAN FENG:   What kind of adjustment?   I just adjusted a little‑‑ like just the posture of my putting posture.   I just adjust a little bit.   I didn't change much.   Because to me, I'm more like a feel player for putting, because if I feel like I can see the line, I'm getting it starting on the line, then I'm fine.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT