KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
April 4, 2014
Shanshan Feng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about your round today, kind of up and down?   
SHANSHAN FENG:   Well, I think I played in the afternoon today, and the wind kind of picked up today, so it was actually tougher playing compared to yesterday, and I think I actually did pretty well.   Of course I did make two bogeys coming in, but I was still concentrating, and it just happens.   Sometimes you make good strokes and they don't fall on this course.   I'm still positive, so that's good.   
   
 Q.   You mentioned the wind picking up on already a difficult course.   What kind of adjustments do you have to make when the conditions play into an already tough golf course?   
SHANSHAN FENG:   Well, I would say most of the girls have been here for a few years at least, so we know this course is playing really tough when it's windy, so we just need to be patient because sometimes the wind actually can affect your putting, also, so I think that's very tough.  
   
 Q.   You were talking earlier about how you felt you were making good strokes, they just weren't going in.   It seems like you still have a lot of confidence that you can make a run at this thing going into the weekend.   Can you kind of talk about that?   
SHANSHAN FENG:   Well, I think, yeah, I'm actually struggling with my 56‑degree a little bit, but that's an easy fix, and I think my putting has been pretty consistent this week.   Even today I made some long putts.   Yeah, I think it's in good shape.   
   
 Q.   You played with Amy Alcott the first two days, three‑time champion.   I know you were talking about her giving you some secrets yesterday.   Talk about what it means to play with a three‑time champion and what kind of message she gave to you about heading into the weekend.   
SHANSHAN FENG:   Well, she taught me to drink a lot of water, make sure I drink a lot of water.   That was what I did last night, and she was telling me, like every time maybe I'd make a bogey or I'd miss a putt, and she'd say, okay, let's make one back.   She encourages me.   It was kind of funny because yesterday I think Clinton, Carter wanted to play a round with her, but she said no because she was going to be in the tournament.   It was kind of funny, and it made me feel like, ooh, ooh, like so proud of myself, proud of the tournament.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT