OMEGA DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 5, 2013
Shanshan Feng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Just an assessment of your second round, please, how you felt you played today?
SHANSHAN FENG:   Well, I think I started the front nine, it was pretty consistent.   I only made one birdie and saved a couple of really good pars.   And then I think starting from the back nine, I was more relaxed and I was just myself again. 
And then I started to make birdies.   I was knocking the balls really close to the pins again, and I was starting to make putts, also.   While although I missed a little one on the last hole, but I think I still had a good round today.

Q.   Yesterday you said you wanted to find the true Shanshan Feng out there; do you feel that you've finally found it? 
SHANSHAN FENG:   Yeah, I'm happy that I'm finding myself on the second day, not on third day.   Maybe if I can't find myself today, I will miss the cut.   But I'm really happy that 5‑under is a good round and I still get two more days to go. 
Well, I think we are very lucky, because the leaders are not going very far away, so we still have chances. 

Q.   How do you feel about the weekend then, chasing them down, I think you're eight off the lead; is that manageable from here?
SHANSHAN FENG:   Well, Stacy is on top, and like I said before the tournament started, I know she's going to make a lot of birdies here.   She's going to shoot low scores, so if I want to catch her, I need to shoot like even lower scores.   So you know, it doesn't matter.   My goal is Top‑5, so I'm still relaxed. 

Q.   You must feel, though, you've got a launchpad now to challenge over the weekend, something solid to build on for the weekend? 
SHANSHAN FENG:   Well, I think I just had a great day, and I just want to, you know, play two more great rounds, that's it. 

Q.   Would you say the main difference was the mentality that you are more relaxed, as you said, on the back nine?
SHANSHAN FENG:   Well, I was more relaxed, and I think, how to say‑‑ well, I did a little adjustment on my swing, just a little bit and it just clicks like that.   So it helped. 

Q.   Did you have a good night's sleep?
SHANSHAN FENG:   Yes, I did.   I don't know how many hours I slept last night, but I fell asleep at 6.30 p.m.   They woke me up at 8.00 for dinner and then I went to bed at 9.30, woke up at 6.30, ate again, and then went to bed again and woke up at maybe 9.30.   So I slept a lot. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT