SIME DARBY LPGA MALAYSIA
October 13, 2013
Shanshan Feng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You followed up your win with a runner‑up finish.   That's pretty awesome.   You didn't play in the final round, but you kind of surged back.   Just talk about the day today. 
SHANSHAN FENG:   Well, I was in the second‑to‑last group, so to be honest I had less pressure than the other girls.   I started six back, I believe, and I knew, because I played with Lexi yesterday, she's in good shape.   We know she's not going to do bad today, so I had to shoot a really low score to catch her, which I tried but I didn't make.   My iron shots weren't that accurate and didn't make too many putts. 
But I think 4‑under is still a very good round for me.

Q.   You have to be pleased just in general, and the birdie on 18, that had to be a cherry on top?
SHANSHAN FENG:   I had a very good finish.   It was birdie‑par‑birdie.

Q.   Going into next week just continuing what you've been doing?
SHANSHAN FENG:   Next week I'm off.   I'm going home.   I'm resting next week. 

Q.   And then Taiwan after?
SHANSHAN FENG:   No, Japan.   I'm playing four weeks in a Japan.

Q.   So you're doing some JLPGA?
SHANSHAN FENG:   Yes.

Q.   Do you now wish you kind of continued on, keep going‑‑
SHANSHAN FENG:   Yeah, I mean, after the win last week, the pressure is off, and I got my confidence back and I'm really relaxed on the courses.   I really enjoy playing now. 

Q.   One more question about Lexi winning:   How good is that for the Tour?   She's been one of the faces and stars.   She's going to win her first as a member.   How big is that for the Tour in terms of exposure?
SHANSHAN FENG:   Yeah, just kidding, I think she's making us look old.   Going with her yesterday, watching her swing, she can swing like so hard and it doesn't hurt her body.   I was like, oh, very nice to be 18.   I mean, of course it's going to be huge because it's going to encourage a lot of the junior players to actually turn pro, and turn pro earlier because I think a lot of them have been going to colleges and then coming out, especially for Americans I would say that, because for Asians we mainly turn pro when we get to 17 or 18. 
So I think it's really good if we can have a lot more good young American girls to come on the Tour, because it is the American Tour, right?   We want to see more Americans. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT