OMEGA DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 3, 2013
Shanshan Feng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  BETHAN CUTLER:   It's my great pleasure to welcome the world No. 4 and OMEGA Dubai Ladies Masters defending champion Shanshan Feng from China.   Great to have you here back at Emirates Golf Club again.   Are you going through the memories from last year?   
SHANSHAN FENG:   That was my last time to Dubai last year, and I really had a great time.   I really enjoyed playing on this course.   I love the design.   Off the course, I went shopping, which was really kind of a good experience and it was kind of a pity that I didn't get to ride the camels or go to the shooting centre, but this year, I've got my mom with me, so we are going this year.   
   
 Q.   You are always smiling on the golf course and the outside, but you have many reasons to smile this year, you've been playing really well, three tournament wins; looking forward to doing something, what we call, you're trying to do a Stenson, winning the Tour Championship in the U.S. as well as on the Ladies European Tour?   Your thoughts on the year and how good are you feeling right now about your game?   
SHANSHAN FENG:   Well, I had a goal early this year.   I wanted to win twice on the LPGA.   And before China, I had no win, and then I thought I wasn't going to make it because I only had four tournaments left.   But I won twice in the last four, so in the past two months.   
Of course I'm feeling really good.   I'm feeling confident and very happy that I'm back here.   Just like last year, I don't want to give myself too much pressure, so this year, I will just still go for the top five, just like last year.   
   
 Q.   What do you think of Stenson's achievement?   
SHANSHAN FENG:   Well, I think he‑‑ nobody expected him to like go from bottom of his career to the top that soon and I would say that's a very great example in golf; until the last putt finishes, nobody knows what's going to happen.   I would say it encourages a lot of people.   
   
 Q.   Does it give you confidence knowing that you won here 12 months ago, and do you feel that perhaps it could come down to a battle between yourself and Stacy Lewis this weekend?   
SHANSHAN FENG:   Of course, because I played well here last year, and so I will feel really good, but I haven't been on the course yet, and today will be my first round.   But my caddie walked the course and he said it's really similar to last year.   So I'm pretty sure I'm going to have a great, great time on the course.   
And Stacy is always a very competitive player.   I've played with her quite a few times this year, too.   Well, she's always there.   We know she's going to play well.   So I'm really looking forward to play with her and have a great time, like what we did in China this year.   We played the last two days together, and we just were trying to catch each other, so we kept making birdies.   
So we got actually ahead of the other girls, which was really fun, so I really want to have that happen like here again.   
   
 Q.   Would you say it's a friendly rivalry you have with Stacy?  
SHANSHAN FENG:   Oh, yeah, of course, it's going to be friendly.   
   
 Q.   You're quite good friends away from the course and on the course, as well, and you're obviously very competitive and want to beat each other.   
SHANSHAN FENG:   Well, I don't think we are trying to beat each other.   We just want to, we both want to bring out our AGames, play our best.   
   
 Q.   What do you make of the strength of field in general of the event this week?   
SHANSHAN FENG:   The strength of the field?   Well, I haven't really paid attention to the field but like my main tour is not the LET.   So there are a lot of players that are here that I don't really know them.   
But I still found some familiar faces here, and I would say this is the last tournament for the year on the LET and I'm pretty sure all the top players are here.   
   
 Q.   You said you don't want to put pressure on yourself but you must feel very confident coming here; you must secretly have in the back of your mind that you can defend your title.   
SHANSHAN FENG:   I'm not even putting it in my mind.   Well, my goal is Top‑5, so that is just my goal, just like last year, my goal was Top‑5, too.   But of course if I have a chance to be better than Top‑5, I will still go for it.   
   
 Q.   I just had a question, going to keep it light here.   I really want to know, as being one of the OMEGA brand ambassadors, how many guy friends do you have?   Are they coming out of the woodwork with your perks?   Don't men love watches?   I just want to know, has that changed your guy game situation?  
SHANSHAN FENG:   Well, not really yet (laughter).   Because, you know, of course, like you said, maybe I have this chance but because my schedule is too tight, I keep traveling, so I don't have much time to meet the guy friends.   But if I have a chance, I won't mind, you know, making new friends.   I don't have a boyfriend.   
BETHAN CUTLER:   Shanshan, thank you and good luck with your defence.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT