SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY ACER
June 2, 2013
Shanshan Feng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   All right.   I'm joined by our runner‑up this week, Shanshan Feng.   Shanshan, tough day today, but obviously you grinded it out.   A runner‑up finish, not too bad.   Talk about the day and how you thought you closed out the three‑day tournament this week. 
SHANSHAN FENG:   Actually I think I ‑‑ overall I think I did pretty well.   I mean this year, like I said earlier, my best finish was seventh, and before the round today I just said to myself, I said my goal was Top 5.   Just Top 5 would make me happy.
And the conditions was really, really tough today out there, and although it was like a 4‑over round, but I think I tried my best and I stayed really patient, so I think I played well.
THE MODERATOR:   You got ask about the conditions.   How much did the wind play into club selection, how you were approaching every hole?   How bad was the wind in comparison to the past two days? 
SHANSHAN FENG:   I think it's been a little different because yesterday I played in the morning.   So the wind wasn't blowing as hard, and I would say the wind was maybe like anything from 5 to 10, but today it was more like 20 and gusts with like 25.   So it was kind of tough. 
And last hole I remembered it was 111 tee.   I tried to hit the 131 shot, and it came up actually still a little short.
THE MODERATOR:   You got off to a really tough start, two early double bogeys.   Did you do any type of regrouping at a certain point and said, all right, let's get something together and get this going?   Was there a certain point in the round where you said I need to get something going? 
SHANSHAN FENG:   Not really, because you know my habit, I don't look at scoreboards during the play, so I didn't know where I was at, and before the round I said to myself, I need to be patient today, just stay patient, and I think I did.   So I wasn't ‑‑ you know, I didn't lose my concentration after those two double bogeys. 
And I think I finished okay.
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Shanshan.

Q.   Shanshan, the club selection on No. 11 and No. 17, I believe they were both upwind, par‑3, and you came up short on both.   I don't know if it was club selection or the actual swing.   What clubs did you use and would you say that those two swings were costly for you?
SHANSHAN FENG:   I think those I actually didn't play enough wind because I think I thought it was more like a 10‑yard wind and if I could keep it a little lower, usually you can go through the wind, which I didn't because it was more like a 20‑yard wind.   And yeah, so I made two bogeys on those two holes.

Q.   Which clubs did you use?
SHANSHAN FENG:   On the 11th I used a 5‑iron; I tried to hit it low.   And then 17 was a pitching wedge. 

Q.   You said you don't look at the scoreboards.   Did you know where you were like the last three holes after Karrie finished?
SHANSHAN FENG:   No.   Not really.   My first time to look at a board was actually after I hit my third shot on 18.   My ball was already by the green, and that was first time I looked at the board and I was like, geez, there were only three people under par.   Couldn't believe it.

Q.   So before you hit your second shot on 18 you did not know that you needed an eagle to tie?
SHANSHAN FENG:   No.   I didn't know, but even though if I knew, I wasn't going to change my plan because ‑‑ I did ask my caddy, it was 200 yards to cover the long stuff, which into the wind it would be at least a 20 carry.   And even though if I carry and then it would be like a 50‑yard and 50‑yard shot.   So it doesn't make a difference. 

Q.   How much did the course conditions change today between the wind and the whether and whatever?
SHANSHAN FENG:   Of course, you can tell by my scores.   I think I did pretty well for the first two days.   I was really good at controlling the trajectory of the balls, and I was actually having a lot of birdie chances. 
But today it was just hard to even hit the balls on the green because it was just blowing so hard. 
I remember that, I forgot, the seventh or sixth hole, my second shot I was using a pitching wedge.   I was aiming like 25 yards on the right and ended up on the left side of the tee.   So it was kind of hard.   I thought it was ‑‑ we were warming up for the British Open.

Q.   Paula Creamer and Karrie Webb and Cristie Kerr all shoot 68s today.   They're all veterans.   They've all played in conditions like this before.   Do you think that maybe helped them when you look at the leaderboard and see there was only three people under par for the tournament and not a lot of negative scoring today?
SHANSHAN FENG:   I would say 68 is a really, really great score for today.   I would say actually four over didn't sound too bad to me.   But maybe that's why I've never played well in the British Open.   Yet.   Yet. 

Q.   Addressing the greens, not their bumpiness necessarily, but they seemed a little crispy pretty much all three days, a little quick. 
SHANSHAN FENG:   You mean firm? 

Q.   Yes.   It just seems like they were a little bit firmer than maybe we're used to seeing.   Do you think it was the wind or the climate?   What do you think that was attributable to?
SHANSHAN FENG:   I think it was the wind because when we stand on the greens, we actually think that it's pretty soft, but because of the wind ‑‑ when it's downwind, then it goes wherever.   It takes big bounces, but when it's regular wind, it's okay.
THE MODERATOR:   The big week coming up, while we had a busy week, just talk about taking this momentum and your really good performance here into next week to defend your title at Wegmans. 
SHANSHAN FENG:   Second place is my best finish so far this year.   When I was actually coming off the 18th green, my caddy this week said to me, you're ready for next week. 
So I think I'm ready and I'm really looking forward to go back. 
THE MODERATOR:   Great.   All right.   Thank you for coming in. 
SHANSHAN FENG:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT