OMEGA DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 8, 2012
Shanshan Feng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  BETHAN CUTLER:     Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to welcome the 2012 OMEGA Dubai Ladies Masters Champion, Shanshan Feng.   If you could start by talking about how it feels.  
SHANSHAN FENG:   I'm very happy because I had the lead for three days in a row and I don't want to give it away on the last day.   I think I tried my best, but still, I won.   So here I am.   
I didn't look at the board until maybe the 18th green.   So I didn't know what was going on.   The other players in my group, I knew how they were doing, they made some long putts, but I was just focusing on my game because this morning, I told myself, if I can shoot 5‑under today, nobody can catch me.   So I was just, you know, sticking on that plan.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
SHANSHAN FENG:   It was a low three‑round score, that was what they told me.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
SHANSHAN FENG:   That's funny, maybe that's another way to compete.   That's good.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
SHANSHAN FENG:   I think eight wins, including this win, and I've had five times that I was just coming from behind, and I had three times that actually included this one, and then finally I won.   So it's not my first time.   
So I had experience about that, so of course I was still nervous, but I did it.   
   
 Q.   Your sixth win in 2012?   
SHANSHAN FENG:   Yes.   Three in Japan, one in America, and two on European.   
   
 Q.   How did this equal the win?   How much does this win mean to you?   
SHANSHAN FENG:   Like I said earlier, this is my first tournament‑‑ this tournament is like a major on the LET and I've always heard about it, that it's very nice.   Finally I got a chance to play, and I like it, I like the golf course‑‑ of course, I shot 21‑under, and I haven't really been to the malls yet but I'm going right after the interview.  
   
 Q.   Are you buying a handbag or is she buying you a handbag now?   
SHANSHAN FENG:   I don't think she made the top 10 and she has to go back to Q‑School but I believe that she can make it anywhere.   
Yeah, I'm going to buy myself one and maybe my mom, my dad‑‑ (laughter).   
   
 Q.   What's been the change since last year?   
SHANSHAN FENG:   I would say it's been a long story because I went to America when I was 17 and I went to LPGA Q‑School in the same year, so after maybe like half a year, I was still playing in the junior tour and then suddenly I was qualifying and I did qualify.   I knew it would take time but it took a little too long.   
You know, I kind of lost my confidence after 3 1/2 years, because I had some chances before, but I just let it go and finally last year, because I actually made birdie into the final hole, and I said to myself, if I don't get a shank, I'm going to win this tournament.   So after that, I kind of got the feeling back.   
   
 Q.   Is it fair to say that your iron play was key to this victory?   
SHANSHAN FENG:   I think, actually, my putting was very good until today.   But I still missed two shots for birdies, not for pars.   I would say everything was great this week.   Driving was good.   Iron shots.   
   
 Q.   The tournament in Japan you won‑‑  
SHANSHAN FENG:   The Meiji Cup, August 7 was my final day, it was a three‑day tournament, it was my birthday.   I won ten years of chocolate, and then this year, I did defend so I got 20 years of chocolate.   (Laughter).  
   
 Q.   For next year, now that you're back in this winning sort of‑‑  
SHANSHAN FENG:   Actually, I think my last tournament was maybe, almost, three months ago, so actually after‑‑ I would say after early September, I actually think I'm doing very well, either in Japan or China or America.   I think I was putting myself under too much pressure and kind of lost my game.  
But I came back maybe three weeks ago when I was at the last tournament on the LPGA.   I told myself, hey, just don't think about the numbers, don't think about where you are, and just play your own game focused, play like normal.   I did have a Top‑10 finish.   I would say after that, I think I'm back, and I feel more comfortable.   
   
 Q.   To sort of ask, you've played three tournaments on the Ladies European Tour, and the Order of Merit‑‑  
SHANSHAN FENG:   I would say because I have a card in America and Japan and Europe, also, of course I can't play all of the tournaments.   I would say I would still focus mainly on the states, and if I can, yeah, I would play more on The European Tour.   
   
 Q.   Just looking at the trophy, there are some level names, Annika Sorenstam, Lexi Thompson and your name is going to be engraved on that.   Do you feel special about that?   
SHANSHAN FENG:   After the LPGA Championship that I won this year, they do the same thing.   So my name was under Yani Tseng.   Yani is my really close friend and I'm really happy that I could just take her place, but I remember many times, I said to her, Yani you need to give us some chances.   
   
 Q.   Because of communication problems, some players like to play mostly in Asia or China.   What do you attribute‑‑ how do you make that change?   
SHANSHAN FENG:   A lot of Asian girls, I think first thing is the food.   We can eat rice and noodles in the morning, which we can't find anywhere else like except for Asia.   Of course, English is one of the problems, too.   For me, I like all the food, I like Italian, I like American, I like Mexican, Chinese, Thai, Japanese, Korean, Indian.   I like everything.   
So you know, I can always find some food that I like.   And I think the important thing is that I can sleep well.   The best thing for me is to sleep eight hours a night, and whatever time I need to wake up, I can fall asleep whenever I want and I can sleep on airplanes, and I think that helps a lot.   
   
 Q.   Can you tell us how you started?   
SHANSHAN FENG:   I started the day with two pars, and then an eagle on the third hole.   I made a long putt there.   I didn't know how the others were doing.   I was expecting somebody maybe to shoot 10‑, 9‑under today.   I missed a short putt on 10, maybe five feet or six feet, so I think I kind of was a little nervous on the putting.   But then I think, luckily, nobody shot really low scores, and then I was 3‑under for the day.   
I think I did okay.   I did handle the pressure pretty well.   
FastScripts by ASAP Sports ...  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT