HSBC WOMEN'S WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
February 28, 2019
Shanshan Feng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Three birdies and no dropped shots, that's what you're looking for?
SHANSHAN FENG: Well, actually, before the round, I didn't know if the greens would be any softer because yesterday when we played the Pro-Am, the greens were rock hard and it was actually hard to hold the ball on the greens.
For me, I only made two birdies yet.  I was wishing the greens would be a little bit softer and actually they were today and the pin positions were very reasonable.  I think my ball-striking and also my putting were pretty good.
So very consistent round.  So I think that was a good start.
Q. You've been working with your coach, Gary Gilchrist.  You said last week, you need to get a few extra yards.  How's that going?
SHANSHAN FENG: I think it's been going, maybe little bit -- a few yards longer I guess.  I played with Lydia today, and we were almost the same, so I think we're both gaining a little bit of distance, hopefully.  I think, you know, I just actually want to get it to hit the balls more solid because I think last year, you know, I was struggling with my ball-striking.  Wasn't -- I couldn't hit them solid enough to hit it to get to the yardage that I wanted.  So I just couldn't make any like top five finishes.
So I mean, in the winter, I did work on my ball-striking and I think it's been better.  Even last week, even though I didn't play as well, I think that was because of my putting.  The putting was really bad last week.  So hopefully, you know, putting can be better this week and give it a good run.
Q. Now lots of the players have been talking about how good Singapore is for shopping.  We know you like an odd hand bag or so.  Have you been tempted?
SHANSHAN FENG: Well, I always set a goal.  I'm like, you know, there's an art shoppe, I think just in the mall, like next door to our hotel, and every time I see like so many like paintings that I really want to bring home, to take home; but I always tell myself, if I finish top three, then I can go get one.  But my best finish in Singapore was fourth, so I could never bring them home.
So hopefully, you know, this time I can maybe get one there.  Yeah, shopping, obviously it's great, and I haven't been shopping much because I'm kind of tired but I guess maybe in the weekend, when I have time, of course I'll shop a lot.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT