OMEGA DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 6, 2012
Shanshan Feng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You said you were feeling a little bit of pressure yesterday but it didn't look like that was the case today?  
SHANSHAN FENG:   Actually, I did.   I have pressure the first maybe few holes, but then I started with a par and then really easy birdie, like a two‑feet putt for birdie and then I made another putt on the third hole and then after that, I was fine.   
My putting was really good today.   I think I learned something maybe from Inbee Park who is our money queen on the LPGA this year.   I played with her many times, and I just never, you know, knew how she could put that well.   And then today, I was talking with my caddie, I said, oh, I learned something.  
   
 Q.   And that was the key for you today, was it once you got a few birdies on the card, you relaxed and that helped you move on?   
SHANSHAN FENG:   Yeah, sure.   Especially after I holed a couple of putts, and I think I just kept it going and it was great.   
   
 Q.   In terms of your game, how good was that round of golf?   How much better can you get this week?   
SHANSHAN FENG:   Actually, my low score this year, it was only 6‑under.   I've had 5‑ , 6‑under many times.   But yesterday I was trying really hard to break that 6‑under but I was right on.   Today, I broke my low round for the year, and I hope I just keep that playing.   
   
 Q.   And I'm assuming you're feeling very confident for the next two days, getting your hands on the trophy?  
SHANSHAN FENG:   Well, I'm still on the same page as the start.   My goal was just Top‑5, no more pressure.   
I think I did really well.   I did feel a little pressure in the beginning, but then after those two birdies on the second and third, the pressure was off, and my putting was real good today.   I think I'm a player that when my putting is on, then it's really good, but when it's not there, it's kind of a struggle.   I struggle a little bit.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT