BLUE BAY LPGA
November 10, 2018
Shanshan Feng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. So a long week done.  How do you feel?  You got it under par for the week.
SHANSHAN FENG: I know.  I finally got it back to the red number.  I think it's my first time to actually get it to red number throughout the whole week.
I mean, I didn't have a very good start, 3-over, then and then I was trying to come back on the second and third round.  I made some birdies but still made some -- I mean, on this course it's hard to have bogey-free rounds.
Then today I finally got everything together that I made more birdies and actually less bogeys.  So still pretty happy about the result.
Q. Do you think there is anything specific that changed from yesterday to today, or just a new day?
SHANSHAN FENG: I think it was a new day, and also actually I was paired with a young Chinese player today.  I mean, she did really well for first three days, and then playing with her it's kind of telling me that maybe the kids will look up at me, so maybe doesn't matter if I play well or not, I need to show them what a player should do.
So I was trying to be a professional, and then actually that brought out the good results.
Q. What does it mean to you?  We have 20-some Chinese players in the field, and I'm sure a lot them started in the game because of you.  What does that mean to you?
SHANSHAN FENG: I don't know if they started because of me.
Q. They keep going in the game because of you.
SHANSHAN FENG: Well, I think I'm really happy about what I've achieved.  I think when I started golf I was the youngest in the country and then there were not many juniors playing.  Here I am.  I mean, I've got world No. 1 even I was starting in that situation.
Then now, I mean, there are so many junior players in China that started playing golf and actually they're doing really well, including like Yu Liu.  She's a rookie on the tour, but she's like in top 40 right now.  And then Wenbo, I mean, she almost won Shanghai, so I'm just so happy to see the girls coming through.
I mean, how many more years can I play?  I don't know how many more years I can play, but I want to see Chinese flags on the leaderboards all the time.  I'm happy that they're doing well.
Q. Your season is now over.  What are you going to be doing during the off-season?
SHANSHAN FENG: Oh, my God.  I just finished the season with a birdie, so makes it feel even better.  Well, I've got some plans.  I'm going back to Guangzhou first and then maybe spend a few days there and then going to Japan and Korea for club testing and also like vacation.
So I'm going to visit a lot of players, a lot of friends in Korea.  I think we're going to have a great time over there.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT