BUICK LPGA SHANGHAI
October 16, 2018
Ariya Jutanugarn
Shanshan Feng
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Would you be so kind as to come on to the stage as well, you three.  (Applause.)
Why don't we just kick off the second part of the Q and A session.
Q. (Question for Shanshan.)
SHANSHAN FENG: Obviously I've enjoyed my success in the past two years.  It's great to come back here.  A lot of things remind me of the past, especially of the past two successful years.  Of course that gives me a lot of confidence.
In the past when I was here I was a top-ranked player the past two tournaments.  Obviously this event, after the elevation, now has become one of the events of LPGA in Shanghai in particular.  The lineup is getting to be stronger and stronger, so a lot to expect, of course.
I've spent a lot of time playing overseas.  Now, as a home player obviously a lot of people expect me to do well naturally, and I expect myself to do well as well.  I'm looking forward it that.
On the other hand, I'm a little bit nervous, so I it's not an expectation.  She would like to do her best and give it a best go.
THE MODERATOR: And we move on.
Q. (Through translation.)  Well, Brooke, question to you is about your sister, who actually is your caddie right now.  How does this partnership work?  If on course you might have some disagreement, how does it work out?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I'm very grateful to have my sister caddie for me.  She's my best friend and somebody that I trust, and I think that's really important, especially when things aren't going great on the golf course, having somebody to tell you exactly what you need to hear to dig deep and play better.
Also when I'm playing really well she knows how to continue that and make sure that I keep playing well, keep making birdies.  So it's just really nice for me to be comfortable with somebody out there.  We spend a lot time together, but we both enjoy it.  I'm very grateful she chooses to be by my side.
THE MODERATOR: Question for Ariya?
Q. (Through translation.)  Obviously so far you've already lifted the trophy at least three times.  Comparing to about three years ago, are you doing better now?  Do you have more confidence down the line to do even better?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I feel a lot better.  I mean, I never compare myself like two years ago or this year, but I feel a lot better.  My goal this year I finally I won U.S. Open.  It's one of my dream tournament to win.
Q. (Question for Shanshan. )
SHANSHAN FENG: Talk about motivation for me, I really consider myself a veteran now, a veteran player, veteran golfer, because I started playing, practicing the sport at the age of ten.  Now it's been almost 20 years, 19 years specifically.
And when I was a kid my dream was to go to the LPGA.  At the age the 18 I completed to dream.
Now of course later on my dream was to win a title, and years later I did that.  Five years later specifically.
And then of course there was a Grand Slam title.  I was really happy.  It was really something out of my expectation.
Of course I would like to also compete in the Olympics.  That dream also was realized because I won the bronze medal in Rio.
Obviously last year at the end of the year I also realized my dream to become world No. 1.
So everything really, every step I made has really made me motivate even more down the line.  I really essentially want to better myself, improve myself, not just for pride, not just for ranking, not just for reputation, but really to better myself down the line.  That's my goal.  I believe I have more space, more room for further improvement.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT