KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 30, 2018
Shanshan Feng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. So yay, you're done; you're out of the heat.  How are you feeling?
SHANSHAN FENG: Good.  I mean, I just had a very good day.  Finally it was on the range this morning, I was trying to figure out how to hit the ball straight because the first two days, especially yesterday, my ball-striking wasn't very good.  I didn't have many birdie chances, and I had to try to save a lot of up-and-downs, which is not easy on this golf course.  So I mean, I'm very happy that today I finally hit the ball straighter, and I was able to make a lot of birdies and just one bogey.  It was a great round.
Q. Your scoring has gotten better every day.  Was it a combination of getting your ball straighter or figuring out the golf course, or what's been the change for you?
SHANSHAN FENG: I think the first two days, actually my ball-striking was okay on the first day, but my putting wasn't working the first day.  Second day I putted okay, but I didn't strike the ball very well.  But today I think I got both together.
Q. Do you think it was helpful for you to get out early?
SHANSHAN FENG: Oh, yeah, because, I mean, we were lucky because we got the front nine done with all the heat, and then after we made the turn, it was horrible.  It was so hot, and the breeze was hot.  My caddie -- my boss, I mean, he actually felt like bad yesterday, like after the heat, and then so he actually had another caddie walking out of the ropes today with us.  He thought maybe he would pass out.  But he didn't.  So we did good.
Q. Do you know who was on standby?
SHANSHAN FENG: Chad.  Cheeseburger, Chad.
Q. So what's the game plan for tomorrow?  You played well today.  You're still right in contention.  There's a lot of golf left, but what's your game plan for the last day?
SHANSHAN FENG: Well, I just did well today, and I would say that now I just need to go back and get well-rested because tomorrow it's going to be split tees, so I'll be early again, and hopefully it's not as hot and just keep doing the same thing as today.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT