HUGEL-JTBC LA OPEN
April 17, 2018
Shanshan Feng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: So how are you feeling having seen the golf course and everything.  First time you ever seen it?
SHANSHAN FENG: I played nine holes yesterday.
Q. You played nine holes yesterday?
SHANSHAN FENG: Uh-huh.
Q. First nine holes?
SHANSHAN FENG: I played the back.  Yeah, first time.  I think this golf course is -- I mean, it's kind of like a tighter course and the greens are really small.  Some are real tight.
So I think it needs -- requires a lot of accuracy, which is good for me.  Yesterday was pretty windy and I heard the weekend might be windy, too.
So, I mean, I played well last week in Hawaii, and, you know, hopefully I just can keep that good playing going.
Q. What do you think is like the key for playing well?
SHANSHAN FENG: I have to hit the fairways and green here.  I would say hitting the fairways and greens, yeah.  I mean, other than that, maybe (recording skip).
Like it goes away around the green, yeah, so the up and downs maybe kind of tough.
Q. Got you.  Just being in L.A., seeing the tour go to such a huge market like Los Angeles, how cool is that?
SHANSHAN FENG: Well, I know the guys, they have the L.A. Open at the Riviera.  Watching on TV, every time it's like so crowded; so many people are coming supporting them.
Now it's actually our chance playing in the heart of L.A., and I'm expecting a lot of spectators maybe on the weekend.  So I'm very exciting to actually see the people here.
There is a huge population of Chinese here living in L.A. so hopefully more fans can come support me.
Q. Have you spent a lot of the time here in the past, in L.A.?
SHANSHAN FENG: Well, I mean, like during the -- how do you say?  Like when we are over on the west coast, like on the off weeks I'll stay in L.A.
So, I mean, I kind of know the area and I know a lot of Chinese play golf here.  There are a lot of great golf courses here.
Yeah, and very good food.  That's very important.
Q. Yeah.  What would say is the best part of your game right now?
SHANSHAN FENG: Right now, I think still my -- maybe driving recently.  Yeah.
Q. Yeah.
SHANSHAN FENG: But I think my ball striking is always there.  I'm not really afraid of the wind, so that's a good thing.
Q. Do you change things often like in your game?  Swing stuff?  Equipment?  Anything like that?
SHANSHAN FENG: I don't, no.  Like equipments, I try to use them as long as I can.  And then same thing.  I mean, I've been with my coach, Gary, this is the 12th year.  My caddie, Mercer, this is I think the seventh year this year.  Yeah, seventh year.  I like to be steady and stable.  I don't like to change a lot.
Q. You like keeping things consistent in your game?
SHANSHAN FENG: Yes.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT