BLUE BAY LPGA
November 9, 2017
Shanshan Feng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  The average score today is approaching 76.  You're about nine shots better than that.  How did you do it?  
SHANSHAN FENG: Well, I mean yesterday, I had a good round, and this morning, I mean, I knew that after the first round, I would be warmed up a little more.  I would say my ball-striking today was better, so I was giving myself birdie chances.   
Of course, my putting was working today, also.  Continued from last week and so I made a few birdies and I mean, just one bogey for the day, it was pretty good.   
 Q.  So you've gone three, you've gone two, you've gone one; is there a zero, or do we just hope for more ones on the way?  
SHANSHAN FENG: Well, hopefully there's not a zero because that means I don't have any score.  But I'm not trying to think about it.  I just think recently I've been playing pretty well.  I just want to keep that good playing going.   
Coming back to China, of course, I'm playing in front of all the fans from home.  Of course I feel a little bit of pressure, and I'm pretty sure tomorrow will be more people coming to support me.  But I just wanted to bring out my A Game and enjoy the week.   
 Q.  You certainly brought your A Game.  We can call it an A-Plus today.  I want to know what grade you give your new caddie, your substitute caddie, Jeff.  What was he like the last two days?  
SHANSHAN FENG: I think Jeff is a very good caddie.  We've been very good friends but never worked together.  Somebody was joking.  He said, "Jeff is better-looking than Mercer."  (Laughter).  I don't say that.  So if Mercer is watching TV:  Sorry, somebody else said that.  No, I think you are better looking.   
 Q.  We feel like we've been speaking so much about you and to you.  How do you feel about commentating sometime?  
SHANSHAN FENG: You think so?  Like I don't know, when I'm not playing and watching TV, I'm just like a fan.  I don't know how to commentate but hopefully I can say good things.  In the future I have a chance, I would give it a try.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT