THE EVIAN CHAMPIONSHIP
September 16, 2017
Shanshan Feng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You always play well here, right?
SHANSHAN FENG: I could have made more birdies.
Q. How many did you leave out there do you think?
SHANSHAN FENG: I don't know.  Yesterday was a lot, yeah.  Today was a little better.
Q. So does that mean you're hitting your irons really well and you just want a few more putts to drop?
SHANSHAN FENG: Well, yeah.  The thing is because the course is so wet, so they've been moving the tees up, so a lot of -- like even, what is that, like 7 is we're getting two on, 18 is short, the par-5, and then a lot of holes that we would be hitting short irons into the greens, too, so lots of birdie chances.  But the greens are hard.
Q. Why do you think you always play well here?
SHANSHAN FENG: Here?  I think accuracy is very important here.  You have to find the fairways first because if you are in the rough all the time, like I play with Ariya, when she hit the ball on the fairway, she made birdies all the time, but once you're in the rough, then it's hard to get on the green from the rough, and then it's hard to get up-and-down, so you'll just be making a lot of bogeys.  Over two days I've only made two bogeys.  I didn't make that many birdies, I would say seven, but I've only had two bogeys.
Q. Did you reflect that much on the U.S. Women's Open?  I know you're the type of person who moves on quickly from things.
SHANSHAN FENG: Oh, yeah.
Q. Did you think that much about it?
SHANSHAN FENG: No, because I was still happy.  I mean, like I said at the press conference afterwards, because my goal was -- I didn't set any goals going to the U.S. Open, and I would think maybe top 10 would be a great result for me, and I actually ended up having a top 5, so nothing to complain.  I mean, maybe I could go a little bit higher, but that was still good.  I didn't really think about it, and afterwards I think I've been playing decent, also.
Q. So you've been third and fourth here the last couple years.
SHANSHAN FENG: Yes.
Q. What was your goal coming in this week?
SHANSHAN FENG: Nothing.  No goal.  I just want to enjoy.  I have so much good memories here, and it just gives me confidence, and also, I mean, I like just Evian.  I like the course.  Yeah, everything is good.
Q. Your thoughts on losing the event in China?
SHANSHAN FENG: Well, I mean, that was a team event, and that's --
Q. No, the LPGA event --
SHANSHAN FENG: Oh, you mean losing the tournament.  Well, I don't know.  I mean --
Q. Were you surprised?
SHANSHAN FENG: I mean, it was on the schedule.  I knew every -- I was just like the other LPGA players.  I didn't get any informed like earlier, and I was planning to go, also.  But I mean, as a player, I mean, what can we do to change it?  I just need to focus on my game.  Of course I want to support all the events, LPGA events in China, so I'm going to play Blue Bay, and maybe we'll have it back next year.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT