U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP 2017
July 13, 2017
Shanshan Feng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








SHANSHAN FENG: I started the round really solidly.  I had three birdies in the first four holes.  After that I felt comfortable about everything.  Because my ball striking has been pretty good, but I was struggling a little bit about my putting.
I made a little bit adjustment with my coach after I got here on Tuesday, on putting.  Then I'm rolling the ball into the holes now.  I'm really happy about the round, 66.  That's my low score in U.S. Open ever.  So hopefully I can keep that going.
Q. You had two stretches where you had three birdies in a role?
SHANSHAN FENG: Yes, I think so.
Q. Has that happened to you before?
SHANSHAN FENG: I don't know.  In U.S. Open, it must have been the first time.
Q. What did you and Gary work on?  What kind of changes did you make?
SHANSHAN FENG: I moved the closer to the body because the ball was too far away, so my club head was titled a little bit.  That's why I missed that stroke.  I don't hit it solid.
Then now I'm actually it had hitting it solid and starting the ball on the line.  I can actually control where it's going and also the speed.
Q. I heard you lipped out a few, too.  Do you feel like you could have made a couple more?
SHANSHAN FENG: I think everything was great today.  I mean, I think I left some out there for maybe the weekend.  Can't make them all on the first day, right.
Q. How do you feel about the overall course and your impressions of it?
SHANSHAN FENG: I mean, the course is in great condition.  It is a championship course and it's my first time here, so I'm really impressed about what they did for the course to get ready for the tournament.  I really love the course.  I mean, just had a very good round and then I think this course suits my game because I really requires accuracy, especially for the second shot into the greens.  That's what I did previously pretty well today.
Q. Your thoughts about tomorrow?
SHANSHAN FENG: I think I just had a great day and I think it's time to maybe have lunch and take a nap.  And I think nothing was wrong today, so I think I just keep the same game plan and hopefully another really good round.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT