KINGSMILL CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY JTBC
May 19, 2017
Shanshan Feng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Great round on the golf course today.  Tell me how you feel walking off?
SHANSHAN FENG: I think overall I did pretty well.  I just had one three-putt, so one bogey, with five birdies.
I was actually rolling the balls very nicely on the greens and I made some putts.
Ball striking is better than yesterday also, so I'm feeling good.
Q. Did you work on anything last night or what was the change from yesterday to today?
SHANSHAN FENG: Well, I just change a little bit ball position, but that was it.  Very small change.  And I got my confidence back finally hitting, so that's good.
Q. What extent was it a motivator playing with In Gee and the way she was playing?  She birdied four out of five holes in a row.  Did that make you say, All right, got to make some shots here?
SHANSHAN FENG: Well, yeah.  I mean, she was hitting the balls like really close to the pins so her birdie chances were maybe three, four feet.
Like I said, my ball striking wasn't as accurate yesterday and today.  What I was trying to do is trying to make more putts.  I think it was good.  Playing with a good player always makes you want to play better.
Overall I think I did better.
Q. Everybody talks about the golf course just being as good as they've ever seen it.  What is it that's making it so good, and how is everybody able to score so well?
SHANSHAN FENG: Well, I think the golf course is a championship course.  I think the design is great; very challenging.  Especially if the wind picks up, which we were kind of lucky because we didn't have much wind for the first two days.  That's why I think the scores are lower than maybe normal.
But if the wind picks up on the weekend, then it becomes a really challenging course with a lot of slopes on the fairways and also the rough is pretty long, and then the greens are firming up, so it's pretty challenging.
Q. With a run of majors coming up, how much of this is preparation for that?
SHANSHAN FENG: Well, I mean, we still got a month or so until our second major.  To myself I would say I didn't have a very good start of the year, but I think after Mexico I think I'm starting to pick up my confidence again.  It would be great if I play well here.
Of course it's going to give my more confidence going into the majors, yeah.
Q. And is this course in particular good preparation for majors though, the way it's set up?
SHANSHAN FENG: Well, I mean, because the fairways are pretty tight, so I think it's good for practicing our driving.  Then sometimes we need some shaping shots here also because of the slopes and how the trees and the fairways are doglegs.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT