OMEGA DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 9, 2016
Shanshan Feng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








SHANSHAN FENG: Today was a little better than yesterday.  My putting was better.  Still missed a few putts but it was like really, really close.  I even had one putt I thought was going in but it came backwards somehow.
I would say, ball-striking wasn't as accurate as yesterday, but still, 2-under is a better score than yesterday.
Q. How do you feel going into tomorrow?
SHANSHAN FENG: Well, I know that we only have one day left and I may be far behind, but I mean, tomorrow is going to be pretty windy, based on the forecast.
Normally I like playing in the wind, and maybe that's going to give me a better chance.  Like I said, I just want top five this week.
Q. Is there a score that you think that might get too far away from you to try and win it?  If you're 2-under at the moment, is there any score you wouldn't be able to reach tomorrow or do you not think that way?
SHANSHAN FENG: You know my habit, I don't look at other scores, so I wouldn't have any idea about where the leaders are at.  The only thing I know is how I'm playing, so just try my best on every shot, play shot by shot, and yeah, top five.
Q. You've shot low here before, so you must be confident of going out and doing that again tomorrow.
SHANSHAN FENG: Yeah, I would say if I get my ball striking and my putting together tomorrow, of course, I'm looking forward for a better score.
Q. You were saying yesterday your posture, what is it exactly?  You just don't feel as comfortable as usually do?
SHANSHAN FENG: I would say the greens, they are super good.  They are super fast, actually.  Even faster than like on the LPGA for the last few events, so I wasn't really used to the speed.  I think I just couldn't get the speed and the line together.
But I think today, I'm actually more used to the speed.  Like even though I missed some putts, but they were like right there, so the speed was right.
Q. How important tomorrow is it to start quickly?  Is that something you think you need to do?
SHANSHAN FENG: No, we always have 18 holes.  I make six birdies on the front and nothing on the back, still six.  I don't think that's something that I will have to try to do, especially when it's like really windy tomorrow.
It was a little better than yesterday, because I made three bogeys yesterday and I only made one today.  I would say the difference between today and yesterday, I would say my putting.  It was a lot better than yesterday.   Even though that I was missing some putts, but my speed was at least right.
Ball-striking wasn't as accurate as yesterday's but I'm stilling feeling quite happy about it.
Q. And the wind is going to get up this afternoon.  As it stands, you're only three off the lead, so it's nothing to be too concerned about heading into the final day, is it?
SHANSHAN FENG: Well, I mean, even though it's going to be quite windy this afternoon, but I know that there are some strong players on Tour, and especially this week, we actually have some top players from the world.  We've been playing in all kind of situations, and windy doesn't mean that there's not going to be a low score.  I'm still expecting somebody to maybe play pretty low today.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT