OMEGA DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 10, 2016
Shanshan Feng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Seems like you've got a special relationship with the golf course, winning three times now.  Great feeling?  
SHANSHAN FENG: Yeah, even though the tournament is not finished yet, but I would think maybe I have won.  I'm really happy that I actually brought out my A Game today.   
I knew that it was going to be windy today and I knew that playing in the wind is one of my strongest parts.  So even though I was five behind, but you know, in the morning, I always thought that maybe I would still have a chance to win this week and I tried my best.  8-under was a pretty good score.   
 Q.  Yesterday, as well, with the deficit, you said the windy conditions will support you, because you looked at the forecast.  What is it about the windy conditions?  
SHANSHAN FENG: I think if there is strong wind, the quality of shots are pretty important and I think that's what I'm good at.  My ball-striking most of the time is pretty solid and I can control the trajectory in the wind.  I still leave myself birdie chances, even though it's really windy.  But I know that it will actually bother a lot of the other girls, so maybe the other girls are not going to shoot like really low scores.   
 Q.  You mentioned you really like coming back to Dubai, so how is the feeling today with the crowd support?  
SHANSHAN FENG: Of course I'm so excited today, because I didn't play super well the first two days.  My putting was kind of lost and I'm very happy that I was able to putt well today and make a lot of birdies to make the crowds excited, because we had the most crowds today.  I'm just really happy that I brought out my A Game in front of all the crowds.   
 Q.  The putting was really on today, wasn't it?  
SHANSHAN FENG: It was better.  I would say that the putting, yes, finally it's working.  Because you've been asking me the whole week, oh, what are you doing, the first and second day, you're not putting same as what you were doing here in the past years.   
I asked myself, I didn't know either.  I'm just so happy that today I got my putting with me.   
 Q.  Did you do something different today on the putting green?  
SHANSHAN FENG: Yeah, well, I made like small adjustments.  I made small adjustments on my posture but today I think I found like the most comfortable way to putt again.  I was misjudging about the speed the first day, and I think I got better today.   
Yesterday, I got the speed better.  Today I got the speed and the line better.  So that's why the balls were dropping.   
 Q.  Was there a putt that really got you going?  
SHANSHAN FENG: I would say, well, I didn't start making like super long putts.  I started the birdies with maybe 4- to 6-footers, and keep making all those putts actually gave me confidence.  So I finally made a longer one on the ninth, and then on 10, 11, the longest was on 14 today.   
So I mean, I'm rolling the balls really well, and you know, I'm just so happy that I can be able to putt again.   
 Q.  The 16th hole, you continued breathing and were looking away from the course.  What was going through your mind?  Were you confident that the lead was going to be maintained?  
SHANSHAN FENG: Well, I have a habit that I don't look at leaderboards when I play, and you know, I'm not in the last group, so I actually don't know how my competitors are doing.   
So I knew that by the 16th hole there was a big scoreboard, and you said I was looking away; it was because I was trying not to look at the leaderboard.  Just stick on your routine and play your own game.   
 Q.  Did you know you were on for a course record on the last two holes?  
SHANSHAN FENG: No.   
 Q.  That doesn't go through your head at all?  
SHANSHAN FENG: No.  I didn't know anything.   
 Q.  How difficult were the conditions today?  
SHANSHAN FENG: Today, the wind was pretty strong.  Stronger than the first two days, and it was really gusty.  Like we really have to wait until our turn to decide what club we're using.  But I mean, like I said, I'm pretty good at playing in the wind, so it didn't bother me at all.   
 Q.  And this was the first time you've won coming from so far behind compared to your other titles.  How does that feel?  
SHANSHAN FENG: Well, it's interesting.  Of course it was different, because I think in the first three times that I won, I was leading by five shots into the final days.  This time, I was five behind.  So I knew that I would have to play hard, try hard to try to catch the leaders, but I think the weather was great for me.  It was windy.  If there wasn't wind out there today, I don't know what would happen.  But happy that luck was on my side and I finally brought out my A Game.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT