REIGNWOOD LPGA CLASSIC
September 27, 2016
Shanshan Feng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Seemed like you were making them laugh a lot in the press conference.  What were some of the things you were telling them that they were enjoying?
SHANSHAN FENG: Well, I think one thing is that I do think off the course we actually need to show more of our personalities.  I do think that I have a character, and my character is more like silly, funny girl.  So I like to tell jokes.
Today what did I say?  Oh, I told them like somebody said that maybe you're like a pioneer of Chinese golf.  What do you think about it?  I was like, I don't think I'm a pioneer.  I just think I'm a, what do you call this in English, guinea pig, like a pig that you test for everything.
So I said, I'm actually the guinea pig for Chinese golf.  Before me nobody has tried it, so I was the first one to really get on the tour and experience all kinds of different things.
You know, I'm the guinea pig that tried to find out a path maybe from China to international so the people behind me can actually follow me and they don't need to get into the troubles that they don't need to.
So I think that's one of the things I said.
The other one was because all the girls, like top 3 players in the world right now, they're all so young.  They're like under 21.  This time winning a medal at the Olympics really gave me confidence that I can still compete with all these young girls.  I'm still not too old.
Q. You're really not that old.
SHANSHAN FENG: Compares to them I'm a little older.  Yeah.
Q. You've been in China since the Olympics but this will be the first time playing in China since then.
SHANSHAN FENG: Playing in China, that's right.  First time.
Q. You feel like that adds pressure or is it more fun being back for the first time?
SHANSHAN FENG: Well, I've been in China, but it's my first tournament after the Olympics in China.
Reignwood is one of my sponsors, too, so especially I won here three years ago.  So coming back, you know, I am full of good memories about here.  I love the food.  Really happy this I can be back.
I really love Beijing Duck and I love the food.  Love the golf course; love the resort; love the area; love the spectators.
So I'm not giving myself pressure and not really feeling the pressure.  Even went to karaoke last night.
Q. You won karaoke?
SHANSHAN FENG: No, I went.
Q. I thought you meant there was a competition.
SHANSHAN FENG: (Laughter.)  Well, for the worst singer maybe.
Q. You won the competition for worst singer?
SHANSHAN FENG: (Laughter.)  I'm just joking.  I'm not bad but not good.  Average.
Yeah, not feeling pressure at all.  Really looking forward to see all the people on the weekend.
Q. Did you bring your medal?
SHANSHAN FENG: No.  Like now I'm going to stop telling people where it's at.  I'm afraid people will come to my house and actually steal it.  No, I'm joking.
Q. Let's hope not.
SHANSHAN FENG: I know.
Q. You take anything from your win here in 2013?  A lot similar?  You feel comfortable?
SHANSHAN FENG: Yeah, of course.  Like the design of the golf course and I've had some very good results here, so of course helps me with the confidence.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT