THE EVIAN CHAMPIONSHIP
September 15, 2016
Shanshan Feng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Talk about your round today.  How did you put together that 7-under?  
SHANSHAN FENG: I mean, started the round okay.  I mean, I actually the wind direction was totally different to what the forecast was telling us.   
So the first three holes didn't hit any greens.  After that, you know, I figured the wind was actually from another direction.  Then after I adjusted that I started to make a lot of birdies.   
I would say today we were so lucky because it didn't rain much.  We were expecting to play in the rain for the whole day; we had preferred lies even and not much wind.  That made the course a little bit easier today.  So there were a lot of low scores.   
 Q.  You play pretty well on this course regardless of the condition.  What do you like so much about Evian?  
SHANSHAN FENG: Well, every year I come, I don't know.  It's a major.  Even before it became a major I knew -- I always thought it was as good as a major.   
Finally it became a major.  I mean, it's got good purse.  Everything is so good.  Good course.  I love the course.  I don't know why.   
But I think this course is maybe good for like the players that are more accurate.  I think that suits my game, yeah.   
 Q.  I mean, you had a couple weeks off after you won the bronze medal.  How tough was it to get back in the flow of a normal tournament week, and that tournament week being a major championship?  
SHANSHAN FENG: I was actually going to play both of the tournaments in Canada, but after the week in Rio I felt so tired.  I just decided to go home.   
During those three weeks, I mean, I was sick for one week and I took one week off -- took another week off.  So I only practice like maybe started from last week.   
I played two rounds, and the green speed were like seven and a half.  When I first came here, when I got here and was playing the practice round, I was putting like -- my putting was really bad.  I was hitting the balls way by the holes.   
But I tried to adjust it, and after three days, I mean, today I think my putting was pretty good.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT