THE EVIAN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 26, 2019
Shanshan Feng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Great round today.  How would you describe your round?
SHANSHAN FENG: I would say that I started the round a little better than yesterday.  I was like 3-over, I think 3-over after four holes yesterday, but I was actually 2-under instead.  So I think that that's what I actually improved on.
Overall it was a very consistent round.  I made six birdies and one bogey, which one bogey is acceptable on this course.  The rough is really, really long and, I mean, we have to hit the ball really accurate.
I'm happy about the result.
Q. Happy with the schedule change as well?  Seems most players are with this tournament coming back to July.
SHANSHAN FENG: I like it.  I mean, it's a little bit warmer, but we actually get to see more people.  I think this is a time that most of the tourists will come visit Evian, so we'll actually have more spectators to come watch us.  That feels good.
Q. Give us an idea how you've attacked 18.  Have you ripped it and gone for the green in two?  What's your plan at 18?
SHANSHAN FENG: Well, depends on where my drive ends up.  So like yesterday I was in the rough, so I mean, I laid up.  Just missed a birdie putt.
Today I had only 180 to the front, so I did hit my 4 hybrid into the green.  Just missed the green, and then the rough, I just didn't get it up and down from the rough.
I would say 18 really depends on where the pin is at and also where my drive ends up.  I think most of the days I'll play maybe three shots.
Q. Yeah, they moved the tee box forward today at 18.  Give us an idea what a top professional does now after her round?
SHANSHAN FENG: Sorry?
Q. What are you going to do now after your round?
SHANSHAN FENG: I think I've done pretty well for the first two days.  Actually this is the first cut I've made in a major this year.  I'm happy about it.  Yeah, finally get to see me on the weekend at a major.
So, I mean, just keep it going.  I think I've been doing pretty well, so just do the same thing.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT