UL INTERNATIONAL CROWN
July 22, 2016
Shanshan Feng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How do you feel the match went for you guys?
SHANSHAN FENG: I feel all four of us played really well today.  Me and Jenny, yesterday was our first time to actually team up and play four-ball together, and we learned from yesterday a little bit because it was quite different than playing the individual.  Like we don't have to worry about if we're making bogeys or doubles, we just want to make a lot of birdies.  I think we adjusted a little bit the strategy today, and I think it went pretty well.
I think we all played pretty well.
Q. What were some adjustments that you and Jenny made out there after having one round of match play under your belts?
SHANSHAN FENG: Well, what we learned was not to be afraid to be aggressive.  If one player is already safe, then the next player might just go right at the pin or take more like an aggressive line, and we also let the player for par putt first, and then the player for birdie will go -- will have no pressure on putting, yeah.
Q. How has this experience been for you guys, first time representing China in the UL International Crown?
SHANSHAN FENG: Well, we loved it.  All four of us, we were really, really excited.  I think overall we did well for the first two days, and we just want to enjoy because we came in -- we got in as the last team, the eighth place, so we had nothing so lose, so we just wanted to enjoy this weekend and bring our A games.
Q. What's the approach going into tomorrow's final round?  You still have a chance to make it to the singles competition.
SHANSHAN FENG: Yeah, sure.  We are playing Chinese Taipei tomorrow, and we are very, very good friends, and I'm pretty sure we're going to enjoy the round tomorrow, doesn't matter if the result is good or not.  I would say we will be really relaxed.  Chinese Taipei has been playing really well for the first two days, so we'll just stick to our plan and just play shot by shot.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT