RICOH WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
July 29, 2016
Shanshan Feng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  A closing birdie at the last, a punctuation to a great round.  How was it out there?  
SHANSHAN FENG: I mean, I started the round really hot today.  I mean, I had four birdies in the first seven holes, and I was 5-under through ten.  I made a couple bogeys maybe in the middle there, misjudging about the wind.   
But the birdie on the last hole made me really happy, so made the lunch feel better I think.   
 Q.  Yesterday you mentioned how soft the course playing and how aggressive you could be.  How important is it to keep making birdies?  
SHANSHAN FENG: Well, I think my putting has been working.  It's been pretty good.  My ball-striking is always not bad, so I will have a lot of birdie chances every day.  If I can make some putts, then I know I'm able to make more birdies, so I'm not worrying about that.   
 Q.  Going into the weekend, what are your expectations as trying to keep pace with the leaders?  
SHANSHAN FENG: Well, I think in the past two days, I've played well.  I've brought my A Game with me this time, and I would say I'm not thinking about the others.  I think I just need to worry about my own golf and just play like the first two days.   
 Q.  You follow a 66 with a 68 today and a very early start.  What time were you up this morning for your tee time?  
SHANSHAN FENG: I got up at 4.30.  The transportation only started from 5.00.  If not, maybe I would need to get up earlier.   
 Q.  How aggressive can you afford to be out here in these conditions right now?  
SHANSHAN FENG: Well, I mean, I really like the course.  Normally my ball-striking is not bad, so I know I'm going to hit a lot of fairways and greens.  It really matters if my putting is working or not.  In the past two rounds, I think my putting has been really good, so I made a lot of birdies.   
 Q.  We saw Mirim Lee come home with a 62 yesterday.  When you and the other players see another player achieve something like that, what does it make you feel?  How do you react when you see a score like that being posted?  
SHANSHAN FENG: Actually I didn't know she shot a 62 or never told me -- I have a habit, I don't look at leaderboards, until we finish on Sunday.  So I actually don't know what the others are doing and don't know where they are at.  I only know what I am doing.   
I think 10-under for two days is not a bad score at all, so I'm just going focus on my own game, and if it's mine, it's mine.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT