OMEGA DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 9, 2015
Shanshan Feng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Happy with your day?
SHANSHAN FENG: Yeah, I did really well today, 5 under today, bogey free.  It's a really good start.
Q. What was going right for you?
SHANSHAN FENG: I think my ball striking was pretty good, so I had a lot of birdie chances.  Made some and missed some.  But I still think 5 under is a good score.
Q. When you walk up to this course, you must be so full of confidence at the first tee that you know you can take this course apart.
SHANSHAN FENG: Well, I would say, yes, I have very good memories in the past years here and I'm always really excited about coming back every year, and this year is the same.  When I got here, I'm like, I'm here again, and when I was playing the practice round, I was finding all the good memories and I was really enjoying myself and really relaxed actually.
Q. Are you happy with your putting or not happy with your putting today?
SHANSHAN FENG: It's actually not that bad.  My putting was okay but it wasn't
Q. You made a bomb on the 7th
SHANSHAN FENG: Yeah, it was a longer one.  I would say my putting was okay.  I would say today, my ball striking was pretty good, but I didn't really put the balls like really close to the holes.  Most of my birdie chances were like maybe above 15 feet.  So those are not the ones that you make it every time.  So I think I was still doing fine.
Q. And are you happy with the position that you are in?
SHANSHAN FENG: I don't even know where I'm at.  I know I'm 5 under.  I think it's a good start.  I think coming back as the defending champion, my goal is only top five.  5 under, it's a good start.
Q. You said your target is top five.  Does it change now after the 5 under today?
SHANSHAN FENG: I got asked by that many times, but you guys know my answer:  No.  Top five is good.
Q. On 18, any disappointment there?
SHANSHAN FENG: Not really.  I just gave it a little bit too much line.  It was a great stroke.  It didn't turn as much as I thought but it just happens.
Q. You say you don't know where you are; does that mean you weren't looking at the leaderboard?
SHANSHAN FENG: That's my habit, everybody knows.  I don't know how the others are doing.  I just focus on my own game.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT