DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 24, 2003
Iain Banner
David Garland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
GORDON SIMPSON:  Welcome back to St.  Andrews for the third dunhill links championship.  I'll introduce the top table.  First of all, on the far left we have Peter German of IMG.  Next to Peter is Iain Banner, championship committee member, and next to me is David Garland of the European Tour. 

We'll get some introductory remarks from Iain.

IAIN BANNER:  Thank you very much and a warm welcome to you, also.  This is the third dunhill links championship which we built as a celebration of links golf.  We are delighted with the field, both professionals and amateurs that are here.  Thank you to the media who have given us a lot of support in advance of the tournament.  We have been working hard in an effort to popularize the event with the public by getting them more informed through regular contact with the media, and certainly the opportunity to go around to the various golf courses and speak to people in the area.  It seems as if people are beginning to understand the format, how it works.

And most importantly we have made admission free to everybody for Thursday, Friday and Saturday in an effort to give the golfing public here in Scotland every opportunity to come out and to enjoy what I'm sure will be some fine golf, and hopefully some fine weather conditions. 

We are very happy to have the leading money winner from the United States, Vijay Singh, and of course the top of the  Volvo Order of Merit player, Ernie Els, here. 

DAVID GARLAND:  Presently we have in the field the Top 8 from the Volvo Order of Merit as it stands at present playing this week, which shows the strength and the large number of this year's tournament winners. 


Q.  The handicap system    

IAIN BANNER:  Amateurs are all cut by one third as per last year. 

DAVID GARLAND:  The only change is handicap to one scratch or better.  Obviously two thirds of one is still one two.  Thirds of scratch is still scratch.  So if you're one scratch or better you playoff your regular handicap so one guy playing off best ball, he's not playing off plus six. 

GORDON SIMPSON:  Johan Rupert last night mentioned the amateur celebrities can pick up at any time just to keep the pace of play flowing?. 

IAIN BANNER:  We are cognizant of the fact that this is an important tournament for the professionals, and we have emphasized to amateurs that is if they are not in contention must pick their ball up.  Every amateur will receive on the tee tomorrow a little card to remind them that they should assist their professional by picking the ball up if they are out of play, and that way we assure that things will move along very nicely. 


Q.  With so many of the top players here    

IAIN BANNER:  It's an interesting in the Open Championship, five hours and 20 minutes.  We know at St.  Andrews there were double greens.  And whether there were amateurs playing or not playing, the pace of play on the Old Course is slower.  And we play four balls, and I think amateurs more and more     the whole thing about the tournament is golf is uniting people, and the people that are here, as golfers, they understand the format, how it works and I'm sure that will move things along.  But, you know I think the rounds obviously are slower than one would like, but that's the nature of the golf course is double greens, too. 


Q.  You tried a shot from the bunker on 17. What do you think of the changes?

DAVID GARLAND::   If you were there, you'll notice it didn't get out.  I think the change has been obviously conducted by the links trust.  I certainly would not think the bunkers are any easier at all.  Even though there had been a lot of comment over the winter about the changes, it doesn't detract from the whole.  It's still very difficult.  I know some professionals still struggle to get out.  I think the ball still gathers into there and I think you all will see anybody that does go in there will have difficulties, as they should. 

IAN BANNER:  One thing would I just like to point out, picking up from the earlier comment, obviously there's been ongoing discussion about a format that involves amateurs in an event like this.  But for us the amateurs that are here are exceedingly important.  At the end of the day, amateurs drive professional golfers through their interest in the game.  Professionals have an opportunity to play week in and week out.

For business reasons, these people are important to us from all over the world, and it's a format that works for us as sponsors and promoters of the event.  Most significantly, the professionals have adopted the format. 

And your question how long that would take, we knew some professionals might not like the format, but frankly everybody is here for the right reasons, professionals and amateurs alike.  They are here to celebrate links golf, to have an exceptional opportunity, a privileged experience and we are seeing the event is growing through that.  We are seeing professionals are coming to the tournament because of the format, too.  I am pretty certain that if we didn't have this format this week and it was just a regular golf tournament, Vijay would not be here.  I certainly know Nick Price would not be here, and I'm sure Shaun Micheel would not be here and I'm not sure Ernie Els would be here.

So in response to the question of the format, it's going to stay.  It's not going to change.  It's what works for the tournament.  It makes it a different event.  I think earlier, I wasn't here, but Padraig had a conference and he spoke about it.  It's a different week.  It's a different experience.  The fact that the amateurs are involved, this is the Holy Grail here at the Old Course.  It's always been something that the amateur has had the opportunity to be part of.  We think it's wholly appropriate that that tradition continues.


Q.  Inaudible?

IAN BANNER:  Two thirds we feel is a fair adjustment where somebody playing off a 4 adjusted to a 3 is adjusted probably the same as an 18 to a 12. 

The fact is, somehow handicap ball is even with verification, they have a far greater chance in 18 of making eight or nine pars than a scratch has of making eight or nine birdies.  So by making the adjustment across the board and consistently, we think it levels the playing field and is absolutely appropriate.


Q.  What are your thoughts about the venue for the coming years, would it do in your opinion to have all three courses within a few miles of either other? 

IAIN BANNER:  I feel strategically that would be the easy option.  For us, we've got to run the tournament and we've got to move people around and that adds additional challenges. 

We do it because Carnoustie is an exceptional links golf course.  As you bring people from all over the world, we were very lucky to find in Kingsbarns an absolutely exceptional new golf course, that frankly in years to come will carry the same sort of reputation as Carnoustie, and possibly the Old Course, in terms of desirability to play.

There are other great golf courses here.  We've thought about it, but for the present we'll certainly keep Carnoustie.  It's a very strong attraction for the amateurs to have an opportunity to play Carnoustie.

GORDON SIMPSON:  Thank you very much, gentleman.



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT