ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 3, 2018
Muffet McGraw
Marina Mabrey
Jessica Shepard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Notre Dame 90, Florida State 80   
MUFFET McGRAW: Well, I thought defensively in the first half, we just didn't have the effort in our zone.  I thought our slides were slow.  Our communication was bad.  They were really on fire from the three-point line.   
Tried to mix up the defense a little bit, but really didn't want to play man-to-man because Shakayla Thomas is just such a handful for us to guard.  She's a phenomenal player.  She had a great game, really, really difficult matchup but Wright is the one we were worried about on the three point line and everybody was making shots.   
Much better in the second half.  They only had two threes in the second half.  I thought Marina Mabrey, just a gutty performance, just did absolutely everything we needed her to do.   
 Q.  Coach, talk a little if you could have Arike and Marina and the chemistry they share and what they brought in the second half?  
MUFFET McGRAW: Yeah, I thought Arike was a little frustrated if the first half and let her emotions get the best of her, and I thought in the second half she had a very much where she was absolutely unstoppable.  Her and Marina just play really well off of each other.  They help each other.  They know each other's moves and where they want the ball, and I thought, you know, giving Marina the 24-footer at the shotclock buzzer was just a great strategy.   
 Q.  You anticipated my question, but Marina, have to ask you about the three-pointers at the end of the buzzer, especially in the third because that turned a one-point deficit to a two-point lead which is a pretty big swing.  Can you talk about those two shots a little bit?  
MARINA MABREY: Well, they went in.  I just knew there was a couple seconds left.  I had to shoot it, and even though it kind of looks like a chuck-up, I've just got to make sure my shoulders are squared to give myself the best chance to make the shot.   
 Q.  Can you talk about tomorrow's matchup against Louisville and what fans might expect to see?  
MUFFET McGRAW: Well, I think both teams, after having played two pretty tough games, are going to come in with just a little bit of -- well, maybe a lack of energy.  But I think both of us know the adrenaline will start pumping when the game gets going, and they have really took it to us in Louisville.  So we hope that we can come out and compete with them tomorrow.   
 Q.  Why were you guys as successful as you were on the boards, particularly the longer the game went on?  Jessica, why were you as successful as you were on the boards, particularly the longer the game went on?  
JESSICA SHEPARD: I mean, I think coach put a huge emphasis at halftime as she did at the beginning of the game but we didn't do a good job of taking care of it in the first half.  But we just have to rebound better, and I mean, even, I don't know what that number ended up, but it was just more effort in the second half.   
 Q.  You haven't had exactly a smooth rode to get here as far as all the injuries and remaking a team as you go.  Is there a special, I guess, satisfaction to be back in this position like what you always have been despite what you guys have had to overcome?  
MUFFET McGRAW: Yeah, there really.  Is we're the underdog this year.  It's a position we're not used to, and it is one that we're really enjoying right now.   
I think it's going to be a testament to the perseverance and relentlessness.  You saw the spirit, the fighting spirit that Marina today, and I think what's what the whole team is going to need tomorrow.   
 Q.  Talk about your matchup tomorrow against Louisville's Myisha in the low post?  
JESSICA SHEPARD: Yeah, Louisville has some really great players and I think for us it's going to be about team defense and that's what's going to lead to easy offense.  I think, you know, we're just going to have to go over with the coaches, have us go over and we're going to have to come in with the mindset that we're going to stop them tomorrow.   
 Q.  Being the No. 1 seed throughout since you came to the ACC and now you're the No. 2 seed, does it feel different in the tournament?  
MUFFET McGRAW: It feels a little different, knowing that we are certainly the under do you go, pressure is all on Louisville tomorrow.  They are the team that's supposed to win.   
 Q.  Looked like all five of your starters were in double figures scoring today.  Talk about the balance of your team's offense.  
MUFFET McGRAW: You know, we have so many players that are capable of stepping up and having a big night, and really, any one of the starters can do that.  And tonight, we really spread it around a little bit more, and I thought we did a good job of finding the open guy.   
 Q.  With the injuries with the point guard situation, more is being asked of you with ball handling.  Do I think it's taken time for you guys to settle in and figure out what you have now because it's a very different team from what you thought you would have when you started the season.  
MARINA MABREY: Yeah, sure.  I mean, we definitely needed to some time to figure out, get some chemistry with me being at the point and not being on the wing.  But I think everyone's help me out a lot, and we're coming together well.   
AMY YAKOLA: Thank you all very much.  We'll see you tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT