MLB ALL-STAR GAME
July 14, 2003
Garret Anderson
Johnny Hasick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Just your thoughts on winning. 

GARRETT ANDERSON:   You know, it was just an honor to be asked.  I don't look at myself as a home run hitter but I know I'm capable of hitting some balls out of the park, and it's just another platform to go out and show America what I can do. 

Q.  Can you talk about the groove you were in? 

GARRETT ANDERSON:   I didn't really get into a good groove tonight.  I got some pitches in the zone that I usually don't miss during the season.  I think it was more the pitcher kept throwing it in the same spot.  That's pretty much the secret to those things.  You can't go up and hit pitches all over the zone out of the park.  It's pretty much impossible to do. I give a lot of credit to him because he kept pumping them in the right spot.

Q.  The show that Pujols put on in the semifinals, did you have a number in mind, what you thought you needed to get to?

GARRETT ANDERSON:   I didn't think there was a number  -- I was thinking of just putting the balls on the left side and right side.  I just wanted to get on the board.  I didn't want to make it easy for him.  But by his last showing, I thought nine was kind of easy for him anyway the way he was putting everything out of the park.

Q.  Are you tired; do you feel like you just played a game?

GARRETT ANDERSON:   No.  Games you get more mentally than physically tired.  I'm more physically tired right now.  I just want to go to sleep. 

Q.  How difficult is it when all you're doing is swinging for the fence; is it different from batting practice?

GARRETT ANDERSON:   It's a lot different than batting practice because we don't have all of that down time between rounds and commercials.  That's what makes it tough.   In batting practice, we sit there, 15, 20 minutes, take some swings and get into a good groove.  But you've to watch the other hitters hit, commercials and stuff like that. I was just trying to do anything but think between the times I was hitting and swinging.

Q.  How much when you're up there trying to swing for the fences are you changing your swing? 

GARRETT ANDERSON:   That swing that I was using tonight is not a swing that I try to use during the season.   It was just strictly for trying to hit balls over the fence.  During the season mentally and physically I don't do that. I look for mistakes and try to hit them hard.

Q.  What are you looking forward to the most about tomorrow's game?

GARRETT ANDERSON:   Obviously playing in it is an honor, but getting the chance to start,  I'm an everyday player.  I don't like coming off the bench.  I know Manny unfortunately had a problem with his hamstring, but I welcome the opportunity to start in the game.

Q.  After you hit six home runs and take the lead and won the second round, did you think about just taking a break after that?

GARRETT ANDERSON:   Not really taking a break, but as a competitor, you knew you already won.  I was just trying to stay focused and not get too sloppy with my swing, get into some bad habits.  I had already knew I won, so just trying to stay square and try and put some kind of show on for the fans as well.

Q.  It's your first home run derby and you walk away with the title.  How does it feel now, you're basically giving this guy the title to a new house? 

GARRETT ANDERSON:   I don't think there's any words to describe it.  Just being a homeowner in America is awesome anyway.  So to do something like that for a person, it's just a blessing that I can do that for him. 

Q.  Could you talk a little bit, you mentioned this is a platform for you to show America what you're capable of, you've been an All-Star and played in the World Series but this is really an individual accomplishment that will make you stand out with most baseball fans; what are your thoughts on that? 

GARRETT ANDERSON:   When it comes to that kind of stuff -- when I got asked to do it, it was an opportunity to do something, an individual achievement, and still not get to the point where I'm seeking it, you know what I mean.  It's an event and that's what it's for.  It's to see who can hit the most home runs and that's pretty much what I did. 

Q.  You said you don't consider yourself a power hitter.  How would you handicap your chances going into the competition? 

GARRETT ANDERSON:   I know I have enough power to hit the ball over the fence.  I know that. You're not going to see me quote "tape measure" shots like Sammy and Jason and Albert.  They were putting on tremendous shows.  I'm just  -- I have enough on my swing to stay within myself to hit the ball over the fence.  I kind of liken myself to more of a Rafael Palmeiro, a guy that hit a lot of home runs but doesn't hit the ball 500 feet every time he does it.

Q.  Johnny, what's it like as Garrett keeps advancing through the rounds, how are you feeling, and then were you a fan of Garrett's before and what do you think of him now? 

GARRETT ANDERSON:   He probably didn't know who I was before. 

JOHNNY HASICK: I knew who he was last year.  It's intense, first of all, because he batted and then the next guy bats and your stomach gets tighter and tighter.  But yes, I found out a whole lot about Garrett Anderson between the time that I chose him and this evening's contest.  But I figure a preacher and an Anaheim Angels make a pretty good combination, don't you think?  (Laughter.)

Q.  What was your stomach doing while Pujols was hitting in the final round?

GARRETT ANDERSON:   Like I said earlier, this was one that I don't get nervous or anything like that. It's amazing to see the different players hit the ball.  I'm a fan of baseball and a fan of hitting and it's just nice to be out there and be a part of that. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT