NCAA MEN'S LACROSSE CHAMPIONSHIPS
May 23, 2015
Kevin Corrigan
Shane Doss
Nick Ossello
Sergio Perkovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  Denver - 11  
    Notre Dame - 10  
  
    THE MODERATOR:   We're joined by Notre Dame head coach Kevin Corrigan, student‑athletes Shane Doss, Sergio Perkovic and Nick Ossello.   We'll start with an opening statement by Coach.  
    COACH CORRIGAN:   I didn't think we played particularly well in certain points of the game, but we did what we needed to do to be in a one‑play game in the end.   And we didn't make that play.  
   
 Q.   All three of you, the mentality, down four goals, 1:23 to go.   What are you guys thinking at that point?   What ultimately got you guys back in the game?  
    SERGIO PERKOVIC:   Yeah, we were down by four.   Defense, all we could do was try and make a stop and (indiscernible), regardless (indiscernible).   So do our best to get the ball back that way.   And just (indiscernible) chance for scoring.  
    SHANE DOSS:   We were down by four, and we were just wanting to play aggressive, get back in the game, show some poise while we were doing that, not forcing as many shots.   Not miss any plays.  
    NICK OSSELLO:   We've been in that situation before and we know not to panic, start taking bad shots.   We kind of know guys like Sergio (indiscernible), does what our team needs to rally back.   We knew who we were as a team.   We trusted each other to get us back in the game.   We were successful in that area.  
   
 Q.   Sergio, take us through that stretch where you scored five straight goals?  
    SERGIO PERKOVIC:   I mean, I just, nothing special.   I was just making plays (indiscernible) right spot, get the ball in the right spot.   Made all the right shots.   That's it.   Just really wanted to win really badly.   My team set me up really well.  
   
 Q.   Nick, you mind taking us through the play where he scored the game tieing goal?  
    NICK OSSELLO:   Sergio is playing out there, and a lot of guys keying on Sergio and Kav and Doyle (indiscernible) which is a situation that I know we can take advantage of very consistently.   And they did a good job setting me up.   
   
 Q.   The opening face‑off, I think Kavanagh pressed the goal.   Would you like to settle it there and maybe test (indiscernible)?  
    COACH CORRIGAN:   Matt Kavanagh has been on our team for three years and won a bunch of games for us in exactly that kind of situation.   It's easy to take a snapshot and say with hindsight would you want a timeout, of course, the ball got taken away.   On odds, right now, Kav is probably 12 and 1 in that situation.   So I'll take Kav.   
   
 Q.   When did you make the adjustment‑‑  
    COACH CORRIGAN:   Well, we wanted to do it earlier in the game, but, quite honestly, we had some injuries at the long pole.   
    We were a little bit thin.   And so we were afraid to wear out our defensemen, bring them up on the wing.   And so we didn't do it in the first half.   It's something we were ready to do at any point.   But we were down a couple guys and just not comfortable with those guys.   Given the way things were going, the tradeoff is maybe we wouldn't have had to play so much defense, if we had done that earlier; but if we do that, we don't win the face‑off, now we're doing both.   
    And so we just, we were going to wait a little bit in the third quarter.   We didn't wait long in the third quarter.   We did it pretty much the second half, because we knew we had to.   But that was the reasoning about why we didn't start the game that way.  
   
 Q.   Denver had its share.   For you guys offensively, did it seem a bit sluggish there in that stretch?  
    COACH CORRIGAN:   Yeah, we didn't play great offensively.   And I don't know quite what to attribute that to.   Quite honestly, I felt like every time I looked up we were getting good looks.   We were getting what we wanted out of our offense but we didn't stay with things long enough.   We were impatient in that.   
    We made a couple of saves and we turned the ball over uncharacteristically a couple times.   But it's hard to be offense, it's hard to be in a good rhythm offensively when you don't see the ball for long periods of time.   It's just difficult to do.   And so we didn't do a great job of it.   
    THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, Coach.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT