SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 20, 2015
Nick Faldo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  JULIUS MASON: Sir Nick Faldo, ladies and gentlemen, joining us at the Senior PGA Championship.  Nick, talk to us about you preparing for retirement.  What's this all about?   SIR NICK FALDO: It's not retirement, it's possibly the last walk at St. Andrews.  So, I thought I would go while I'm young.  Only 58. So, yeah, I'm looking forward to that, obviously.  I would actually like to go there thinking more of trying to be a golfer that week.  I've also been given the honorary membership to the R & A, so that's very nice.  I think I only walked through the clubhouse once in my whole life. So the most important question I asked was, when do they play the golf course backwards.  They play the other way around.  Because it's April Fool's Day, April 1 they play it the other way around.  My son and I are already plotting to be there for April 1 next year to do that.  That sounds like real fun.   JULIUS MASON: So you're here at the Major Championship this week.  How is your play up to speed right now?   SIR NICK FALDO: Play was a little better today, which was good.  I was a little rusty yesterday.  So, yeah, I felt a little bit more like a golfer today.  So pretty nice.  Very difficult golf course.  If you're in the right place, great.  If you're not, wow, it's a little scary or severe the chipping and that sort of thing around the greens.  But that's Pete.  That's why we love him.   JULIUS MASON: You spent some quality time with Pete this week.  Did he give you any insight?  Any secret weapons.   SIR NICK FALDO: Not really.  No.  No. (Laughter.) (Pete Dye walked in). Oh, yeah, there he is. He said, "Golf is not a fair game, so why should the golf course be fair?"  So I said, thanks, Pete.  Christmas here.  I just crossed you off my Christmas card list.  So.   JULIUS MASON: Questions?   Q.  What do you really think of Pete Dye?  No, I'm kidding.  Let's see, so, how much of this golf course is going to be mental and how much physical that you have to tame it?  SIR NICK FALDO: Good point.  I think that seeing as I'm a finally tuned athlete, then it will be mentally. (Laughter.) So, yeah, that bit is designed to test us.  If you keep it in the right place, you'll be fine.  But if you hit some good shots and they roll off here and there -- and chipping, as I said, chipping is tough.  So, I think it's, mentally, it will, that will be the first thing that either stays or goes.  Then the feet will hurt, because it's a good walk on a side hill lie.   Q.  How difficult is it to go from the booth to competitive golf, period, let alone a Major Championship on a course like this?  SIR NICK FALDO: Damn difficult.  If not impossible.  Yeah, I'm -- I can relate more with the average golfer only that only plays four or five times a week.  Then I sit on my butt for six hours now and so I noticed about three or four years ago my club head speed, I had lost five miles an hour with my driver.  So I thought that was a little embarrassing.  So I've been trying to do something about that, get it back. So you got to work hard at it.  So I'm trying to still exercise.  I love all this modern exercise.  I sit in there you go in the fitness trailer and just watch the guys working out and I think, wow, I'll steal that, try that, can't do that.  You know. So, I'm trying my best to get my body to turn like a golfer, but it's reps.  You're just not doing -- it's just residual strength of being a golfer.  Now walking, hitting balls, doing this, doing that, picking it out of the hole.  So, it's hard work, yeah.   JULIUS MASON: Questions.   SIR NICK FALDO: The world's shortest interview.   JULIUS MASON: Questions twice?  There's a World Golf Hall of Famer next to me, ladies and gentlemen.   SIR NICK FALDO: Eating protein gummies. (Laughter.)   JULIUS MASON: 1:50 tomorrow we'll be able to see Nick, Mark Calcavecchia, and Scott Verplank begin the championship.  Good luck this week.   SIR NICK FALDO: Thank you, all.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT