MISSISSIPPI GULF RESORT CLASSIC PRESENTED BY C SPIRE
March 20, 2014
Nick Faldo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  PHIL STAMBAUGH:   We welcome Nick Faldo to the interview room here at the Mississippi Gulf Resort Classic.   Your thoughts about coming here this week for the Champions Tour event.  
NICK FALDO:   Yeah.   I've been trying to beat some golf in.   You know, my mission is hashtag fresh air, hashtag exercise and hashtag curiosity.   I mean that's what I'm here for.   You know, I got the bug back to play after the Open last year at Muirfield, and I tried to (inaudible) lasted six holes and fifth win.   
So I've been resting and looking after it and all sorts of things or not doing anything.   I got a funny feeling, though, my last full round of golf I played was at the Father son in mid December.   So this is my first round of golf today.   I've been hitting a few balls here and there, but we're going on memory.   
PHIL STAMBAUGH:   What would be your expectations?   A great field here, a lot of great golfers.   
NICK FALDO:   Mine really is just to not be hurt.   Just finish.   Really being serious.   If you haven't played competitive at all, then I'm just going out for curiosity's sake.   I'd like to get to the finish line this week and play the three rounds.   And see.   It's fun.   You got new clubs to try, new golf balls, all sorts of things, so I'm here to experiment and enjoy myself.  
   
 Q.   And will this be a chance to maybe get warm a little bit for the Masters?  
NICK FALDO:   Well, I'm in the Masters, the fifth major, which is, of course, the par‑3 on Wednesday.   I don't play the Masters.   At this present time I'm quite happy to be in my CBS TV chair.   
So no, the next big one‑‑ I'm hopefully going to play‑‑ yeah, the next one will be the par‑3 at Augusta, and then the next one I'm going to play Hilton Head because that's 30 years since I won there now, so that's half a lifetime ago.   When I realized that, well, that's a nice course to go back and play.   Anything that's flat is very preferable right now.   
   
 Q.   Do you see any time in your future where you're play more or become more active out here on this tour?  
NICK FALDO:   Yeah.   I might do.   If this goes well, the curiosity thing.   I just think for life, fitness, life, health, golf.   I mean I still love it.   As long as you still love it.   
But I might gear up one year.   You know, TV is pretty busy now.   Who knows by the time I get to 60, which will be '17 will be my 60th year.   Maybe I'll gear up and just do it to keep yourself fit and healthy.  
   
 Q.   How do you balance all of the TV and the schedule of playing some on the big tour and playing out here?  
NICK FALDO:   Well, you know, TV that's my scheduling stone each season, so once that's planned out, then I try to slot some things in.  
But you know, I was in China for the last two weeks with my Faldo Series.   So that was my preparation, on the other side of the world.   I only landed back‑‑ took me about three days to get home because I went from Hong Kong to Phuket.   That was one day, doing a golf clinic for BMW.   Then I got to London the next day, which was Saturday night, and then Sunday I get to Orlando.   So I've only been in the country since Sunday night.   
So can't forget ‑‑ when I wake up in the morning thinking I've only been here for four days.   No wonder I feel‑‑ I'm still getting rid of dealing with a 12‑hour time change.  
   
 Q.   And how did it feel on the range?  
NICK FALDO:   Range is all right.   Yeah, the key man this week is my physio.   I got a young lad here to look after me, and he unlocked my shoulder; did a good job last night.   So fingers crossed.   I just want to be just not hurting by the end of the week.   That's the No. 1 goal.   
   
 Q.   You're one of many players from Europe to be here.   Do you think this is a place where you might try to get more players from Europe to come play here in Biloxi?  
NICK FALDO:   Me?   You want me to promote?   If they're old enough, yeah, and if I have a good week, I'll tell them how good it was.   Let me see if I enjoy it first.  
   
 Q.   And I know it's been a short time for you, but overall have you been enjoying it in Biloxi?  
NICK FALDO:   I've only seen daylight this morning.   I arrived late last night.   You know, get up and head to the golf course.   I haven't seen a lot yet.   Hopefully see a bit more today.  
PHIL STAMBAUGH:   Okay.   We done?   All right.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT