THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 18, 2013
Nick Faldo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Happy birthday.
SIR NICK FALDO:  Thank you very much, yeah.
Q.  Was that a happy birthday?
SIR NICK FALDO:  The golf course is tough, you know.
It's hard work.  It's like glass now.  Given my most minimal
practice and preparation in the history of the Open, probably.
But I was enjoying it.  That view standing on the first
tee with the crowd and the people in the stands and everything,
that was -- I'll take that one as my shot of the day.
I was pleased with the way I hit some shots.  Actually I
really messed up on -- I hit two good shots on 5, and three-putted
it.  And hit a big drive down 9 and pushed a 2-iron into -- and
then after that it was kind of like, the golf course suddenly
really dried out.  And I tell you what, it's getting slippery out
there.
Q.  How nervous were you on that first tee?
SIR NICK FALDO:  Yeah, I was.  I really was.  I thought I
did a really good job of coping with it, because you start
thinking about that and trying to put it off, but this morning you
can't.  You know when you're walking to for the first tee.  So I
was delighted with the way I nailed it down there.
Q.  That little incident with the bunker on 7, was that a
chip?
SIR NICK FALDO:  I had no options, so I was trying to --
you sort of set it up, I was trying to run it and work it around
it and duffed it.  So it went sideways.
Q.  You came back from that pretty well.
SIR NICK FALDO:  I had a great bunker shot, when I was
underneath the lip, got up and down from over there.  And so that
was all right.  But on the back nine, I was just worn out from it.
And I hit it over the green at 14, and I'm coming back over the
hump.  I've got no touch.
Q.  You hit a lot of fairways and had a lot of putts.
SIR NICK FALDO:  Yeah, I did it all right.  The long
swings were pretty darn good.  I only hit one really -- one bad
shot, really bad swing was up the hill at 13.  Pulled a bad 6-iron
left.  And then had to play sideways out of that one.  So these
bunkers are scary.
Q.  Did you hit the bunker shot on the last the way you
wanted to hit it?
SIR NICK FALDO:  Yeah, it was a 9-iron.  Yeah.  I've done
a few of them.
Q.  No regrets, though, Nick?
SIR NICK FALDO:  No.  I'm not here -- I'm here to walk
and enjoy.  That's what I've got to remember, as well.
Q.  You always make an impact.  Your comments about Rory --
SIR NICK FALDO:  Yeah, let me add, because I missed out
the middle bit to that.  When I say he has a window, let me just
add, he's going to have a wife, assumptions, he's going to have a
wife and children, and get yourself a charity you believe in.  And
that's what I'm saying.  There is your window as an athlete.
Okay?  Concentrate totally on -- when you're a golfer, concentrate
on your golf and then you have your charity.  Just keep it
minimal.  I'm speaking from experience.  Don't go off into the
business world, because he's got tons of time for that.  If you're
going to retire somewhere in your 40s, who knows with ten Majors,
you'll be a pretty darned good businessman for the next 50 years
of your life.  Got me?  That's what I'm trying to say.
I got involved in business, and I know it completely
changed my mindset.  And that's what I'm trying to -- because I
know that, I'm friends of Rory.  Don't write it any other way.
I've known him since he's 12.  He's a big part of my Faldo Series.
I'm like big granddad, here, saying exactly those things.  Just
give it your full attention, when you want to play golf.  When you
want to disappear and have a family and do other things, but don't
add anymore, get me?  I'm trying to give him a little caring,
loving help, here.
Q.  He seems to be having a hard time out there again today,
does that make you feel a bit vindicated?
SIR NICK FALDO:  No, I'm not trying to be anything.  I
like the kid.  He's a friend.  I can speak from experience.  All
I'm trying to say is I've been there, seen it, I know what can
happen.  As I said, right from the word go, I thought the
equipment change was very dangerous and trying to explain the feel
factor, and feel his confidence.  Bottom line, if you can do it on
a Sunday afternoon at a Major and win it, that is the ultimate
confidence in this game.  That gives you the ultimate self belief.
I guarantee he's a different -- I won't say "guarantee,"
he looks a different person, let alone a different golfer right
now, than when he walked off the -- when I saw him before PGA,
what was his line, "every part of my game is good," right?  Simple
as that.  I said, "How are you playing?"  He said, "Every part of
my game is good, or better than good."  Wouldn't say that now,
would he?  Get me?
But life, golf and that, all goes up and down.  As long
as you keep believing you're on an upward track, your career is
still going to be up and down, up and down.  That's golf.  You're
either on a spiral going up or a spiral going down.  But that's
all I'm saying.  Don't write as if I'm having a go at him.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
SIR NICK FALDO:  I think that's where I went wrong.  I
only played nine holes.  I run out of steam, I did four nines.
Q.  Did you flash back at all today?
SIR NICK FALDO:  Yeah, of course you do, yeah.  To be
honest, I did it more in practice rounds.  You get more time in
practice rounds, where you stand on spots and say I hit whatever
from here.  Fanny Sunesson was here and she stayed a couple of
nights with me.  And she even brought the original yardage books.
That's really cool.  She kept all the yardage books.  And she
brought the original yardage books.  So it's cool to see where I
hit some shots from on yardages.  Of course you know how, with the
breeze here, how short of yardage, but how big a club.  It's my
famous -- when I head down 15, it was only 164, with that chippy
5-iron.  Today we're hitting 5-irons 300 yards.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
SIR NICK FALDO:  Yeah, it's great.  As I said, it was
scary going to the first tee.  And I thought I settled down all
right after that and I hit some decent shots.  But it's just
too -- it's slippery.  You wait until you get the real golfers in
here (laughter).
Q.  When you were with Tom Watson for four hours (inaudible).
SIR NICK FALDO:  I was trying to quiz him about his
shooting skills.  He has a very fine shot.
No, he was -- you know what golfers are like, we put our
head down and grind.  I asked him about shooting and tornadoes.
Q.  Do you stand, Nick, in that second bunker and think, I
need to get up and down to break even, or is that not your
thoughts?
SIR NICK FALDO:  I'm not worried about that.  That was a
hell of a bunker shot, wasn't it?  Did you see Tom even
acknowledge that one.  A bit of class, he said.  So there you go,
that made my day.  9-iron.
Q.  Justin said yesterday you might be playing a bit more?
SIR NICK FALDO:  Me?  Who knows, it wouldn't be such a
bad idea coming out at 60 just to keep yourself fit.  As long as
you can jiggle it properly.  Don't like jiggling it on the greens.
I like solid jiggles, you know.  It's no fun when you don't
strike.
Q.  Any idea about playing a bit more competitive?
SIR NICK FALDO:  It's giving me a lot more ideas, like
none.  You won't be seeing me next year.  (Laughing).  No way.
Q.  Is that it?
SIR NICK FALDO:  No, I'm not saying that's it, no.  But
who knows?  St. Andrews is my next port of call, if I want to.
I've got to pace myself.  Come on, guys.  This is one tournament
in the last three years.  Steady on.  One in a row.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
SIR NICK FALDO:  I'm just going to enjoy it.  That was
good atmosphere.  I'd like to play a little better.  We're
golfers, find something or whatever.  It's all right.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
SIR NICK FALDO:  It was great.  As I tell you, I hope
somebody got a happy snap of that from behind the tee.  Seriously,
that was the best view of the day.  When I looked down 1 and saw
the hill going and everything, and we were four deep at that time,
which is pretty darn cool.  That was a moment of the day for me.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT