DIAMOND RESORTS INVITATIONAL
January 13, 2018
Nick Faldo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. When is this event?   
NICK FALDO: Don't know yet. We've got to get Pay Per View. Got to get it up to 50 million.  
   
 Q. I was telling Dana‑‑ because you do your little fitness thing on CBS.   
NICK FALDO: Yeah, hopefully do more fitness things.  
   
 Q. You're in pretty phenomenal shape.   
NICK FALDO: I better be phenomenal with a couple F. Faldo Fhenomenal!   
   
 Q. So how are you going to go about training for this?   
NICK FALDO: I've already started. I'm in the gym 8:00 every Monday morning. And I'm hitting next week. I stopped hitting for a week because I hit my man on his elbow, and it's, okay, no more hitting for a week. For now I'm pretending to be a golfer.   
So Monday I'll be taking it out, and I'll be hitting on Monday.  
   
 Q. Did you read the Golf Digest story that Jaime did with the thoughts of you, Johnny Miller.   
NICK FALDO: Not yet, no.  
   
 Q. Your thoughts were about Tiger's incredible focus, like your own. Do you think he still has that?   
NICK FALDO: No. That's what I was saying.  
   
 Q. Well, it's less, but do you think he has that?   
NICK FALDO: No. I think that's what all got shattered. Exactly as I described. There's too much going on, whether it's good or bad, whether it's too much business or too much life, da de da de da.   
Speaking personally, it was the greatest thing to go down to the range, practice all day, and leave at 6:00, and you're the only one accountable to yourself. How was your day? You go, it was great. I had a really good day today. It doesn't matter what anybody said or wrote about you, you had a good day, and you kept piling on. That took months and years of good days. That's not three in a row. That's tons of time. That's putting in whatever that thing was, that 10,000 hours.  
   
 Q. (Indiscernible).  
NICK FALDO: Yeah, that's what I did. We did that in a couple of months, that 10,000 hour stuff.  
   
 Q. You were hitting millions of golf balls.   
NICK FALDO: Must have made millions of swings. And then to get the trust. That's the bottom line. That's the real bottom line to this game. You've got to stand there and trust what you're doing. Once it gets a little chipped, it's a bloomin' hard game.  
   
 Q. Just a quick question about your round today. Can you talk about how you played today?   
NICK FALDO: Horrible, with a capital O. I'm dyslexic, by the way.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT