SEVE TROPHY
September 30, 2007
Seve Ballesteros
Nick Faldo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   GORDON SIMPSON: Commiserations, Seve, for this year. Nick, congratulations to you as the winning captain for the first time.  Just give us your initial thoughts on a wonderful day's golf.   
 NICK FALDO:  Yeah, first official overview.  As I've been saying all week, I've been looking at it from both sides.  So I thought it's a great week, 20 players here, basically all played well, all contributed, you know, all did their bit.  We had some great, good pressure matches coming down the last hole a couple of times this week, which was great, and the guys all came through.  I think, you know, basically played 18 really well.   
 For me, my team, delighted with them.  We just came out and I don't know what inspired them, turned them around and they showed great determination today.  They obviously wanted to win.  You know, I think maybe seeing the red early on the board would help but everybody did their bit all the way through the ten guys.   
 GORDON SIMPSON:  Despite the disappointment, you always wanted to have the Seve Trophy here at The Heritage and today was a fantastic success.   
 SEVE BALLESTEROS:  Yes, everything went right except for the final score, you know.  But I was really optimistic this morning, and when I take a look at the draw, I just felt it was just perfect.  But whatever it was, just everything went wrong.   
 So, that's the way it goes sometimes in sport, and the GB&I Team played great golf, my team played great golf.  Perhaps they were a little bit better today and with a little bit more luck, that makes the difference.  So, that was it.   
 GORDON SIMPSON:  Was it especially encouraging that everyone contributed at least one point?   
 NICK FALDO:  Yeah, exactly.  I was very pleased at my two picks.  They had a great week.  Simon Dyson was real bubbly -- well, he was bouncing.  He was the bouncing character of the week; he brought great enthusiasm to the team.   
 And I thought Marc Warren did a great job today.  We literally gave him a little mini-rebuild on Friday night, and to come out and take it all on board and play that well, he showed good heart today.  I thought that was really, really impressive.   
  
  Q.  How important, off the course, what you've learned will be helpful for the Ryder Cup?   
 NICK FALDO:  You know, I've taken everything on board and made a few little notes every day, and I think, yes, it's been a great experience.   
  
  Q.  Do you feel under pressure from the media at all this week to, what you described yesterday, possibly something --   
 NICK FALDO:  Yeah, I learned everything, yeah.   
  
  Q.  Would you want to do this again?   
 NICK FALDO:  If my players would want me, I would consider it, yeah, sure.   
  
  Q.  Do you get as much out of being on this side of the golf course, as the captain?   
 NICK FALDO:  To be really honest, no.  I was a performer and I was doing it.  You know, to be a competitor and to be able to perform on your stage, your arena, nothing better than that.  But you know, this capacity from being outside definitely gets you going.  I've really enjoyed the week.  I've been really into this.  The team's been into it.  And as I said, the whole experience has been really, really well worth doing.   
  
  Q.  Would you have hoped for something like this --   
 NICK FALDO:  Probably not.  You look, it's match play and they just managed to turn things around, every guy.  Every guy is on individual today.  I think that was important.   
 And it's maybe what -- that's all I said to them yesterday:  You're the only guy with the hands on the wheel now, and so you have to look after it yourself.  You can't assume anybody else is going to do anything.  Just go and do your own thing, and they just about all did.   
 GORDON SIMPSON:  Seve, does this get your adrenaline going, as well, every time you come to these matches with the head-to-head?   
 SEVE BALLESTEROS:  Yeah, I think the singles, as Nick says, the player is on his own, and, you know, everything is just, you know, up to him.  And we, the captains, we cannot really say very much except telling them that, you know, just be tough and go out there and have fun, enjoy and focus on what you're doing and watch your player.  That's what I said to the players and the rest is up to them.   
 GORDON SIMPSON:  Do you think a lot of your players this week will be of great help to Nick next year, as well?   
 SEVE BALLESTEROS:  Sure.  I mean, the whole team --   
 NICK FALDO:  I'm sure they will, because we are Europe, after all, together.   
 SEVE BALLESTEROS:  What happened today in the singles doesn't really mean they won't -- the players on my side will be usable for Nick next year.  We just have a bad day.  Today was like, you know, the Chelsea and the Man-U play against each other and it's one of the teams lost 5-nil, something like that.  It happens from time to time.  That was it.   
 NICK FALDO:  Exactly, that's what this week was about.  Who knows, if we find a pairing and, you know, wherever I moved them around, they responded.  I put them out one after that first day and they responded.  The other day I put them at the back of the field, and they responded.  Yeah, that was a good, solid pairing.   
  
  Q.  Can you talk about Justin Rose playing this week and pairing him with Paul Casey?   
 NICK FALDO:  No. 1, it was great that Rosey was here.  That was good commitment.  You know, his best mate, Poulter was getting married, so he made the decision to be here this week and we appreciate that; to be part of the team and to have him here.   
 And yeah, assembling like that and the way he's performed, he's the guy you would put as the 12th man if you needed it.  He's playing under pressure every week in America and really come a long, a long way this year.  It won't be long before he gets into the winner's circle in America and then he's going to be a regular contender and a regular winner, I'm sure.   
  
  Q.  (About helping players with technique and advice).   
 NICK FALDO:  If they wish.  I put that offer out.  The communication comes from them to me.  If they want me to help, everyone knows I'm more than welcome to give them my two pounds.   
 I've seen it right across the board.  I think everybody's impressed me in some area, really have.  And I think we're going to get out of this meeting here, we're going to get a good half a dozen guys making up the team.   
  
  Q.  Do you think it will prepare them for The Ryder Cup?   
 NICK FALDO:  Yeah.   
  
  Q.  In what way?   
 NICK FALDO:  I'm not telling you -- not for that.  I'm being serious.  I'm not going to give away what I really believe will make the difference.   
 I believe some things I know will make the difference to my team and there's no way -- and please respect that, guys.  I've got Zing -- they want to win, they want to beat us, and I some should really strong opinions on what will make the difference.  I'm going to keep my cards to my team right now.  I'll tell you hopefully the Monday after in Valhalla; just things that I really believe that helped me in my career.   
  
  Q.  (Regarding technical advice).   
 NICK FALDO:  A little bit, yes, a little bit.  Bradley Dredge yesterday -- I'm kind of there.  I feel obviously I've got a good eye, good knowledge of the golf swing.  So I can spot things very quickly.   
 It's great from an overview.  It great to watch a guy from about 200 yards, because sometimes one thing will hit you about their swing and you think the positives, that's good, that's impressive that he's got that in his swing or there might be some guys struggling and you can see it from a mile away.  And you say, well, if they want my help, they all know I'm accessible.   
  
  Q.  What has impressed you about the captaincy this week and what has surprised you?   
 SEVE BALLESTEROS:  I was concentrating on my job, I wasn't keeping an eye on Nick --   
 NICK FALDO:  Didn't even notice.  (Introducing) 'Hi, I'm Nick.'  (Laughter).   
  
  Q.  Do you think he will be a good Ryder Cup Captain?   
 SEVE BALLESTEROS:  I said that already a few times, yes.  He will be fantastic, I'm sure.   
  
  Q.  The trophy is definitely coming back here in two years time, but do you think the match would be a better sell to the public if there were an Irishman on the team?   
 SEVE BALLESTEROS:  Well, we are working right now on a few things with the Tour that will be announced very soon, which I think it will help the tournament.   
  
  Q.  Will it be played here again?   
 SEVE BALLESTEROS:  That's my wish but it's not up to me obviously, you know.  Tom Keane has the last word.  I would love to see the tournament again here, because, I mean, the players are very happy and this is just perfect, it's nice for any kind of competition.   
  
  Q.  (About top players participating).   
 NICK FALDO:  Well, as we know, they have the right to the decision under heavy schedules.  By I'm sure -- this event is growing, it's growing in stature.  And you know, in respect to Seve and what he's done for the game in Europe, he is European golf.  I think other players will recognise this event has got great atmosphere, great competitive spirit and I'm sure some more will want to be here.   
  
  Q.  You mentioned about working on things, what things are you working on with the Tour?   
 SEVE BALLESTEROS:  That's the only information I can give you, what I just said.   
  
  Q.  A lot of players this week have mentioned the strength of The European Tour now --   
 NICK FALDO:  Well, I guess so, and this is part of it.  Some players have been over playing FedExCup in America.  I'm pretty confident they will start to schedule things to include this.   
 GORDON SIMPSON:  Well, Nick congratulations again and Seve, I'm sure you want to get your hands back on that trophy again as soon as possible.  Thanks again.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT