SEVE TROPHY
September 29, 2007
Seve Ballesteros
Nick Faldo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   GORDON SIMPSON:  With one day to go, there's just one point in the Seve Trophy and that's about the way you would envisage it and the way you want it.  Seve, do you want to start today?   
 SEVE BALLESTEROS:  It's not really the way I want it!   
 GORDON SIMPSON:  You expected a close one?   
 SEVE BALLESTEROS:  Just thinking all what happened last night and early this morning, and we were all-square, you know, ending the day being one point ahead is good.  I'm very happy.   
 But on the other hand, after the morning matches, I just thought that we were going to be a couple points ahead, or perhaps three points ahead.  They are all good players and they are all great champions out there.  Anything can happen at any time, just look at Justin Rose when he holed out his approach shot on 16, and you know, that was the turning point I think.   
 But overall it's been a great day, fantastic golf, and I think everybody enjoyed it, and I did, anyway.   
 GORDON SIMPSON:  Certainly a spirited fight back from your boys in the afternoon there after a 3 1/2 and 1/2 at lunch.   
 NICK FALDO:  Yeah, exactly.  There was the kind of big turnaround in the morning matches.  You know, the halve was pretty significant, and the other one in the other match -- I can't remember where it was.   
 But then we managed to turn things around this afternoon.  You're right, Rose, that was a very key moment; Justin Rose keeping in at 16, hanging onto it.  You know, I agree with Seve, the quality of the golf has been great.  The focus on the players has been really good.  I mean, the guys are really into it.   
 You know, we got good crowds this afternoon and it created some good atmosphere.   
 GORDON SIMPSON:  And Seve, how is your sick golfer, Thomas, is he going to be okay for tomorrow?   
 SEVE BALLESTEROS:  Yes, I just spoke with him a few minutes ago, and he's feeling fine.  There's no problem.  He said that he was really struggling last night.   
 In fact, he called me 3 o'clock in the morning and I told him, "Why you didn't call me three hours later, it wouldn't make any difference."   
 And he said, "Well, I was so sick that I didn't know what to do."   
 I said, "I tell what you should do, call the doctor."  Don't wake up myself, you know.  (Laughter).   
  
  Q.  Pleased with the way Simon Dyson has approached it?   
 NICK FALDO:  Yeah, he's been really enthusiastic all week and he's bouncing along and he's got a great attitude.  When he gets to the putting green, you know, he's focused and everything.  Yeah, great, he was very positive and that was the only one I kind of swapped around.   
 You know, everybody else was very comfortable with who they were playing with and obviously that was the big key thing.  That's one of the things I was thinking about doing was maybe -- but the guys had got comfortable and that's really important.  They know how each other is playing, they start reading putts together, and you know, they are making some good little teams together.   
 GORDON SIMPSON:  It's unusual to have Monty going into a Sunday without a point; putting the No. 1 back in his familiar position again.   
 NICK FALDO:  Yeah, ruffle his feathers, send him out, that will be good.  Monty loves that position to go out and get some red this time, put some red on the board.   
  
  Q.  Monty going out first, and Rose, you put your top-ranked player out last --   
 NICK FALDO:  I have a feeling when it's tied, it's not going to matter.  There's going to be some -- the European guys, wow, they are putting well outside 20 feet.  I think they have holed a bigger share than us.   
 Look, it's match play.  You can look at that and start thinking that's good, that's good, or whatever, and then it's match play.  We'll see what unfolds.   
 GORDON SIMPSON:  And Seve, you put your most experienced man at the bottom, as well, Miguel Angel, so you think it could come down to that.   
 SEVE BALLESTEROS:  Well, I'm hoping, what most likely will happen, the matches will be over before the last match on our side.   
 But just in case, I put Miguel Angel Jiménez because he's the guy more steady, more consistent, and with more experience on my team, so that's why I put him just in case, last.   
  
  Q.  If there's a playoff --   
NICK FALDO:  There's not going to be a playoff.  Thank you, Seve.   
 GORDON SIMPSON:  Why don't you play each other?   
 NICK FALDO:  Yeah, with the crowd -- it would take us longer to warm up than to play the hole.   
 GORDON SIMPSON:  Yes, there is a play-off at the end.   
 SEVE BALLESTEROS:  Is if there a playoff, we won't want to retain the cup or the trophy -- we are taking the trophy -- on my way back to Spain --   
 NICK FALDO:  I'll make that decision tomorrow, 5.00 or whatever.   
  
  Q. How important is it to win this week?   
 NICK FALDO:  I don't feel that win or lose it makes it -- I want to win because I'm a competitor.  Obviously the boys want to win.  They have all been here this week, so they are all fierce competitors, a lot of pride, prize money and pride, so they are going to play as hard as they can.   
 But me with my experience in this week, it's not absolutely essential for that part.  I think for the -- as I said, the team, the pride of winning.   
  
  Q.  Di you talk to Marc Warren? He didn't play today.   
 NICK FALDO:  Sure, of course I have.  He was struggling, as I said, he called me up last night and we had a half an hour on the range, and he's a talented kid.  I made some suggestions and they were pretty serious from where he was going before, but he's taken it on board and he's given it a go.  I thought to be fair, to play, to work that in, I'm sure he was disappointed, but you'd expect that.  He wants to go out and play.  You know, but I also had the difficulty of guys all going at me; we're playing together.  So you can't bust that up if guys are really happy.   
 So there was always going to be a tough choice.  There's always going to be a tough call and you have to just make it.   
  
  Q.  With Paul Casey not playing this afternoon --   
 NICK FALDO:  We laughed over that one.  I said, no, Sherlock -- he's been struggling with his consistency, and I think he's got it back a lot better this morning with Rosey.  He was quipping that he was in the fairway more times than Rosey this morning.   
 They played off his drive.  But again, he needed an afternoon to have a little bit of work with Peter Kostis and so I think he'll be back on track.   
  
  Q.  Got hold of him?   
 NICK FALDO:  I believe so.  That's what he was saying.   
  
  Q.  You said that you were going to be picking the brains of past captains. Will you be speaking to Sam Torrance? He had some words to say?   
 NICK FALDO:  Well, everybody is entitled to their opinion, absolutely.  But it's a shame they kind of lean towards the negative.  He's perfectly entitled to his opinion and we'll leave it at that.   
  
  Q.  Can you expand on why you thought it was a good idea to name the vice captains so early?   
 NICK FALDO:  I'm not going to expand on that.  I made my decision and I thought it was a good idea and that was it.   
  
  Q.  Inaudible.   
NICK FALDO:  Both my two vice captains, I did.   
 GORDON SIMPSON:  Captains Nick and Seve, well done today and may the better team win tomorrow.  Thanks very much.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT