SEVE TROPHY
September 27, 2007
Seve Ballesteros
Nick Faldo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   GORDON SIMPSON:  First day, 3-2 to Europe. Nick, you are sitting in the 'trailing' seat so we'll start with you, your thoughts on the day.   
 NICK FALDO:  Yeah, watching the guys play, swing and prepare on both sides, it was just great being in this new position and how great they all are and we're off and running.  And that's what we wanted since day one, and so the guys, they have locked horns already, so that's great and in view of that, and out of respect for my old sparring partner, and in supporting Seve in his event, I'm obviously aware of what's going on in the media and in view of that I will not be talking about anything to do with the Ryder Cup.  I want to concentrate on this out of respect for Seve and this event.  I've got my head down, and I'm thinking purely of this event, so are the players, so I would respect if we can do that, guys.   
 GORDON SIMPSON:  And a couple of the new boys pulled through today, Graeme Storm at the last and Phillip Archer both getting a point each?   
 NICK FALDO:  Yeah, that was the goal from both sides, I was down there on the halves and eagles, guys still made a couple good putts to halve the holes and one to win.  It's impressive considering the conditions, the golf course, the Heritage here is in great shape, really fantastic set up for the guys to play.  So, we're trailing but I'm delighted we're off and running and got everybody concentrating on golf.   
 GORDON SIMPSON:  Seve, on your side, you talked earlier in the week about Markus Brier, Mikko Ilonen and Peter Hanson, and look what they did today.   
 SEVE BALLESTEROS:  Yes, as Nick said, it's been a great day for golf, both teams played great golf and obviously the matches were very close.  We ended one point better which is great, and as for the quality of the golf, I am not surpsied. I expect that, and so I'm not surprised.  They are all good players, they are all great champions.   
 And I approached Nick on the 17th hole and said you have very good material here for the Ryder Cup, and he said yes, yes.  You know, I'm just hoping that we have more people the next few days because obviously it's the first day that people can come and of course the cannot be any better.   
  
  Q.  You'd no problems about approaching Paul Casey with advice on his game?   
 NICK FALDO:  We have a good relationship.  I don't want to jump in but in some situations, I just said to Paul, hey, can I give you my observations; sure, of course.  This is part of the learning curve for me is I got to know the guys who I can talk to or how to approach them or how they approach me.   
 This is part of the deal, part of the communication deal I want with the players and you know, I could see something, I could see him struggling and so I just gave him a really easy sort of thought to recreate momentum and he said it helped and that was good.  We chatted after the round, as well and I presume he's gone off to the range to work a few things out.   
  
  Q.  (About Colin Montgomerie).   
 NICK FALDO:  They were 10-under -- well, Monty was 8-under after 12 and they were 10-under after 12.  If Monty came to you after five, after six holes, he said they are 5-under after six.  I said just come away with a better excuse next time.  So when he walked onto 12, 10-under after 12, is that better, he said, yeah, better excuse.   
 That was some great golf, wasn't that.  The guys turned it on and it's great for the spectators to come and watch.  You've got Europe's best here and it's exciting stuff now.   
 Yeah, I wasn't thinking about crowds today.  I have other things to do.   
  
  Q.  Monty stayed in the clubhouse afterwards?   
 NICK FALDO:  Yeah, he was in the warmth and we're out there freezing.  Yeah, we'll drag him out there tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  Why Rose and Casey together?   
 NICK FALDO:  I don't know why, just felt it looked good and those two guys who are -- I feel good, simple as that.  I don't need reasons, gut feeling.   
  
  Q.  There was a report about you not being able to contact Simon Dyson....   
 NICK FALDO:  As I stated at the beginning, I will not be talking about anything other than this week. No, this event, Seve's event.   
  
  Q.  This is about Seve's event...   
 NICK FALDO:  Still refers to -- I know where you're going so I'm going to stick with --   
  
  Q.  Inaudible   
 NICK FALDO:  Guys, let stick to this event and what we're doing here, okay.   
  
  Q.  Seve, for the Irish public, what do you think that will do for the event not having any Irish players?   
 SEVE BALLESTEROS:  None; it's the first day in Ireland, the people work very hard.  The economy is getting better and better and that's thanks to the hard work of the people and it's Thursday and they are supposed to be working and not watching golf so I didn't expect -- what are you laughing for?   
 I didn't really expect anything before we start.  It was okay.  I think as the week goes on, there will be more people and, in fact, I didn't see you in the crowd.   
  
  Q.  That's a surprise because you can't miss somebody of my size!   
 SEVE BALLESTEROS:  I never saw you, and I was everywhere, I tell you.   
 Q. How different is it to prepare as a captain rather than a player?   
 NICK FALDO:  I'm out there observing and I find it quite fascinating.  I'm making notes already.  I think that's going to be my stock line, I'll make a note of that.  So I think I can gather an awful lot of information from this week, and I think that is very important to me on how I use it for next year.  I think information is important -- and I would not want to talk about it because I obviously feel, as Seve feels, that we have to keep some cards close to our chest, because there are things that will really make a difference to the players and no point in letting the other side of the pond know about it.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT