THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 18, 2007
Nick Faldo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   STEWART McDOUGALL:  Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to Nick Faldo.  Before we start, can I wish Nick many happy returns today on his 50th birthday (applause). 
 NICK FALDO:  Thank you for your cards and kind sentiments. 
 STEWART McDOUGALL:  Have the presents arrived yet? 
 NICK FALDO:  No, I'm saving them to open them later, my one present. 
 STEWART McDOUGALL:  You're here at Carnoustie, perhaps playing and commentating.  How is that going to work for you. 
 NICK FALDO:  Well great -- at the moment I'm trying to get into golfing mode, and that's pretty difficult.  I'll be -- I've been very busy with CBS and Golf Channel, and to throw myself into golfing mode with literally a week to go has been a bit daunting. 
 I feel quite happy that I found -- hopefully found a shot that will work around Carnoustie, and stick with it all week.  It doesn't feel natural.  I have to go through the process every shot.  I know what the process is, I guess I've just got to dig deep and give it full commitment and we'll see what happens. 

 Q.  Your comments over the last couple of days about Europe's golf perhaps being too chummy and lacking a bit of commitment has caused quite a storm.  Do you think in hindsight you overstepped the mark, or is it now up to them to prove you wrong? 
 NICK FALDO:  No, I'll tell you what happened.  Where this came from was I made an observation a couple of years ago at an event in America, and three out of the four leaders were there, they were leaders Sunday afternoon and they were having lunch together.  I thought, wow, that was different to my era.  I was sitting with Seve on the Monday, had a press conference for the Seve Trophy, and we both sort of agreed, well, that's not what we were like in our day. 
 So all it is is an observation.  Obviously I'm now in a position to make observations, and I haven't added anything to it.  In fact, I'm not even sure if there was a European player amongst those three, thinking about it now. 
 It was a generalization of wow, is this a new era we're in?  And then I then thought about it.  What other professional sport -- you guys can probably answer it better than me.  What other professional sport do the guys have lunch before they have to go out and knock their heads off or whatever they're going to do, run around, backhands, forehands?  What other professional sport has lunch before they go out and play?  And I thought it was a very interesting -- that's -- and that's really where it stops. 

 Q.  I would suggest cricketers might do that.  Do you have any regrets about anything you said?  Do you feel you need to apologise to anybody or make any explanations to anybody? 
 NICK FALDO:  No, it was not directed at anybody.  As I said, it's an observation about is this a time we're in where we've been asked of the characters -- the guys I played with, Seve and Woozy and Sandy Lyle and Greg Norman and Pricey, it's in our era, Bernhard Langer and Olazábal, we came from that era.  We were trying to quantify it with, I was talking to Seve, how we had to build where we are now through winning events. 
 So it's not directed at any individuals.  It was kind of like a big, is this a new thing?  Everybody -- a lot of people want the players to be more chummy and what have you.  It was just interesting to look at what we did and what they're doing now. 

 Q.  Do you think it does lessen the competitive instincts in them if they're lunching and hanging out together?  Do you think it does? 
 NICK FALDO:  I don't know.  It might be an interesting thing to look at over the next 20 years. 

 Q.  Over the immediate future, Nick, as captain of the European Ryder Cup team, there is an implication that comfort zone -- I know the results of the Ryder Cup have been extraordinary.  There is a strong complication as it's reflected in the individual results; given all the talent displayed in the Ryder Cup, it hasn't been translated into major tournaments.  In view of your record as an individual player and a Ryder Cup player, is it not worrying to you this is going on year to year, this lack of individual -- 
 NICK FALDO:  No, because I've talked a lot recently about -- I first believed I could win the British Open in 1978 when I ran -- I finished four shots back, and I walked away then thinking, wow, I can win.  I rebuilt my golf swing and I got there nine years later.  And I led at Birkdale, blew up and learned from the experience. 
 What I've been talking about is the players have got to get in there and really feel the experience of it, and that's leading at the end of the day, not just so much on the golf course, because you're a duck on a pond, you're quite happy.  It's going home, coming to the media, sleeping on a lead, first tee off is 3:15 on the weekend, you've got all that time to think about it.  I really feel that is a major part of the mental side of this game.  You've got to experience that to know how different you react and what different emotional state it creates with you. 
 So that is what I think is -- that's putting it in a positive.  Justin Rose has been doing that.  He led Augusta a couple of years ago, blew up, but he learned very well from the experience and was in there until the 71st hole this time.  When players do that, that is more powerful than coming from 25th on Saturday night, shooting a good last day, finishing 25th and thinking maybe I can win.  But it's a different feeling. 
 That's kind of what I'm saying is the more they get into that experience zone, the better for the future. 

 Q.  In your era, Seve made the breakthrough and then the rest of you guys, you and Sandy and Woozy suddenly went through that door, as well.  Do you think that it's almost the same now, that they're just waiting for one person to do it and the rest may say, I can beat him, so I know that I can do that? 
 NICK FALDO:  That's very much what happened to Seve in Augusta for us.  He broke the mold there, how difficult it was for a European player to win at Augusta, because it's different, the super-fast fairways, greens, everything.  And yeah, I'm sure that was -- yeah, for me it was.  It's exactly as you're saying; I'm playing against Seve every week, occasionally I might beat him.  And then I take it to America, and we had a fabulous European run for what was it seven out of nine years. 

 Q.  Do you think the same could happen? 
 NICK FALDO:  Could do, yeah.  You've got these players, as well, in this era, awful lot of good players now stacked up behind Tiger.  If Tiger falters or when he -- who knows, I personally believe Tiger has at least five, ten years more, but somewhere along the line those guys have got to start looking at themselves and saying I'm now in the position to win a Major.  It's me against these other guys.  And it's who's got the whatever, whatever the X factor, 15th club to go and do that. 

 Q.  Who is the latest European contender for that X factor? 
 NICK FALDO:  I've been saying Rosey has been the one recently who has been playing very well and been in contention.  He gained the experience.  So he's the most obvious one for me that comes to mind. 

 Q.  There's also all the rest of the world players now; with Cabrera winning, it's not just about U.S. and Europe anymore? 
 NICK FALDO:  Exactly.  You've got Adam Scott, you've got your Charles Howells, yes, there's a lot of good players who are bunched up behind Tiger competing, yeah. 

 Q.  So is it going to be difficult for a European to break this? 
 NICK FALDO:  There's no reason.  I guess to win a Major it's meant to be difficult; that's why they're Majors. 

 Q.  When people in the future ask you what was Seve like, what was it like being around him and playing against him, what sort of anecdote will you call upon? 
 NICK FALDO:  Well, it just came the other day.  Seve was golf's Cirque du Soleil; he was the greatest show we had in Europe.  And I think the Cirque du Soleil is the greatest show I've ever seen.  It's passion, artistry, skill, it's drama.  That was Seve; you're guaranteed to get that. 
 I was there at some very special times.  The last round at Lytham on his second round that last day, it was something special.  That man was in a different state.  It was quite something.  We talked about the swashbuckling way he played.  He hit it and chased after it and hit it, but it was never -- there was no two follow-throughs the same, and he's chasing after the ball. 
 It was -- you had to stand back and admire it.  I remember when he finished, I talked to him in the scorer's tent, I said, "That was the greatest round of golf I've ever seen."  We had good respect for each other. 

 Q.  I don't know if you heard Gary Player's comments this morning about drugs. 
 NICK FALDO:  What's he on?  For 70, he's doing great.  Now that I'm 50, I'll have a bottle.  What's Gary saying about drugs? 

 Q.  He said he knows two players on the Tour who are taking drugs? 
 NICK FALDO:  He knows two?  I know zero. 

 Q.  Have you ever heard of anybody taking drugs? 
 NICK FALDO:  No, never heard of anybody, no. 

 Q.  You've worked with some young players in the past.  I know you played a few holes here with Rory McIlroy.  How much do you like working with them and how much do you appreciate his talent at 18 years of age? 
 NICK FALDO:  As you know, I love it.  My Faldo Series is 11 years old.  We've been in Asia for a couple of years now.  It's really expanded and I'm obviously delighted. 
 I played with Rory, only a couple of holes; I wimped out in that weather.  But I'm delighted he's made it.  He came and had a practise session with me about a good six weeks ago when I came back to Britain.  Yeah, he's done exceedingly well. 
 Nick D was my first multiple winner.  He was the key man to my Series, the three -- won three out of the first four years.  I'm delighted these guys have progressed.  That's the whole purpose of the Series was to kind of help with the transition from amateur golf to professional golf and give them an insight.  I'm delighted that I'm here playing with them and they're still picking my brains. 
 Who knows what will happen for the future.  If Nick D is obviously good, possibly a Ryder Cup player.  That would be a nice feeling for me to feel that whatever contribution I've made, if any, it will be to have these guys on my team. 

 Q.  How do you feel about turning 50? 
 NICK FALDO:  It's been -- I'm fine.  I'm fine (laughter).  I went to the loo three times the other night and I thought, is this a new change?  No, I think it's great.  It's the front nine of my life.  Hopefully I'll make another 50, that's my goal. 

 Q.  Given the degree of difficulty you refer to winning one Major, how would you rate Tiger's achievement if he managed to do three Opens back-to-back? 
 NICK FALDO:  Well, I'm in -- all of what Tiger is doing and how he does it is pretty amazing.  To come -- you've got to get so many things right in the Majors.  I built my career around getting myself organised for Majors. 
 But you do the obvious things.  You do the physical, the mental, the technical, but then you've got to keep your health going.  You're going to get ill and you have to fight your health and force yourself not to be ill and this sort of thing.  We travel hard.  It's a difficult life.  To get everything prepared and to mentally come here with -- he comes here with the intention of winning an Open, and I'm very proud I won three of mine with the intention of winning a Major, not just turning up and saying it feels good this week, I wonder what's going to happen. 
 So you can imagine that's another difference.  He comes with a whole spotlight, and the way he handles that is incredible, I think.  I think that's the part where personally I think he's the only one who could obviously hit the Grand Slam, he's the only one who could deal with the whole attention factor, if he was to get back in that track and be faced with winning four in one year. 

 Q.  Going back to the Seve -- regarding the Ryder Cup.  There's no outstanding candidates for the next Ryder Cup in Wales and the one after that.  Could an argument be made to shoe in Seve as a possible Ryder Cup captain? 
 NICK FALDO:  Ask Seve.  I don't think Seve would want to do it.  He said after that one at Valderrama, which is ten years ago, that was it.  One win in Spain, that will do. 

 Q.  If he changes his mind? 
 NICK FALDO:  If he changes his mind I'm sure it would be put toward the committee and I assume it will be discussed, I'm sure (laughter). 

 Q.  How has television changed your goal to play golf at this age? 
 NICK FALDO:  It's given me a serious handicap.  Yeah, the time factor is the major thing.  I'm just -- I'm practising one percent of what I used to do.  I've got my son Matthew on the bag, and we were on the putting green last night, and it was from 8:00 to 5:00, and that was what I used to do every day year after year.  So, yes, hard work, isn't it?  I like three-hour days better. 

 Q.  What are your thoughts on women playing the Women's British Open at St. Andrews? 
 NICK FALDO:  Well, if they're good enough to qualify, and good luck.  I'm all for that.  Anybody who has the ability to go through the qualifying procedure and make it, wow, yeah, if you're good enough to do that, good luck. 

 Q.  What's been the biggest surprise that you've run into in your commentating career on TV? 
 NICK FALDO:  Mike Tirico. 

 Q.  Where do you draw the line between being candid and saying something that might antagonise? 
 NICK FALDO:  Well, where do I draw the line?  We go at the speed of light.  If you ever come up, and Mike will vouch for this, we're live, the picture comes up and it's your job to make a comment.  I'm sure over the years something is going to come flying out because sometimes I'm sitting there and I haven't got a clue where I am.  Sometimes we do long, five-hour days some days, and yeah, you could get caught.  But it's not intentional. 
 The idea is to be as entertaining as possible.  There's many different areas I feel I can go.  Sure, things are going to come out and be perceived or interpreted the wrong way.  But I've got no intentions of getting below the belt with the guys.  I just do it, I just go as -- it's what I say to myself each morning, be quick.  Simple as that, just be quick today. 

 Q.  Given the lack of practise that you've got the time for these days, how long do you think you'll continue playing in this Championship?  You stopped playing in The Masters now.  Will you do a Jack, will you get to sort of -- 
 NICK FALDO:  Yeah, I'm not sure.  We have a wonderful opportunity to say good-bye somewhere, the Swilken Bridge looks like the spot.  So when I choose to do that, I'm not sure.  I will review this week -- to be honest, I'll review this week and see how well I play.  I'm feeling all right now. 
 Monday I thought, wow, what am I doing?  But I worked hard to give myself a shot that I think I can get -- keep producing.  I've got to walk myself through the process.  There's no automatic in the moment.  So I'll see how I enjoy it.  The bottom line is I want to enjoy it. 
 I've got my son on the bag and that's probably the number one reason why I'm here.  I've got my whole family.  Obviously being 50, again, it was very important this week for me to be here at 50. 
 STEWART McDOUGALL:  Nick, thank you for your time. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT