VOLVO PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 30, 2004
Nick Faldo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
NICK FALDO:   I changed my plan.  I didn't start as well as I wanted to, and then I had a look and said, well, I need to get my skates on somehow.  I was really pleased with the back nine.  Problem is, I left it short.  And I had a chance on 4, 5, I had a chance on 6.  I had a chance on 7.  I birdied 8.  9 I missed; 10 I missed     it was really great.

That's a first for a long time.  I always keep my stats on how many chances I give myself.  Normally it's been half a dozen most of the time this year, and that was probably a dozen.  So that was a good     that was a good run.
Q.  What about the glasses?
NICK FALDO:   We took the contacts out and my optometrist was worried that I'm going to be flying     I can't get them out, you see.  I'm still struggling, can't get them in, can't get them out.  We tried last night.  My eyes are so small     I feel I have bruises from trying so hard.  I knew I had these glasses with me from Germany, and they are fantastic.  I can see the grain on the greens.  The detail is great.  They were a little     they are not quite right, but they are very good.  The detail is brilliant.  I've been missing that.  No wonder I haven't holed anything.

That's encouraging, to know if I get the eyes sorted out     and you know, as I said, I've got a game plan for maybe the next month or so to work on my game and really get myself ready for Troon.  That's probably my No. 1 goal.  If I can make it through the qualifying, then that will be great.  But, Troon is great, it's a great goal to have.
Q.  What about the U.S. Open?
NICK FALDO:   Well, I've got to qualify.  I may.  I don't know how many spots they have got.  I might have shot myself in the foot.  I'm not very good at qualifying, but I don't know how many spots they have.
Q.  Are you interested in trying for the U.S. Open?
NICK FALDO:   I am.  I've got my name down.  But there might be only a couple of spots.
Q.  Qualifying's over , isn't it?
NICK FALDO:   Exactly, I don't know.  We shall see.
Q.  Do they announce special invites before the qualifying or after the qualifying?
NICK FALDO:   Yeah, I don't know.  Give them a call.
Q.  Inaudible?
NICK FALDO:   I walked down to the other side of the hole and I thought, oh, left to right, no problem.  Walked up, it started, went right to left and left to right and I just hit it spot on, six feet to go, I'm waiting for it to break and it never did.
Q.  16, was that your goal
NICK FALDO:   I was never close.  15 was a good chance.
Q.  16
NICK FALDO:   Well, if I had holed it     if I had finished 3, 3.
Q.  You're not worried about Ryder Cup just yet?
NICK FALDO:   Not with the British Open coming up.  My goal is to go and have a great British Open, and then what would happen.
Q.  When was the last time you've played as well as this?
NICK FALDO:   It's been a while.  Well, it hasn't been that bad.  Last year's British Open was great.  I was 9 under for, whatever it was, 13 holes or something, wasn't I, after round three     for about 30 odd holes, 30 plus holes, I was at 9 under.  That was great.  It was nice to feel like I really honed in on the stick for a change.  That was great.
Q.  What is it about this place that seems to be inspiring?
NICK FALDO:   I know it.  Somebody said this is my 100th competitive round or something.

It's always good here.  It's a good atmosphere here.  I need the atmosphere to get the most out of me.

Tee to green, I improved a lot in one week.  Putting is still hard work, if I could work that out and then  get some confidence with the putting.  It's tough to be patient in this game, it really is.  But I guess coming here, yeah, turn things around.  Set some new goals and that's good.  That's great.
Q.  When do you fly to America?
NICK FALDO:   I'm actually going tomorrow morning.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT