WGC NEC INVITATIONAL
August 19, 2003
Nick Faldo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Congratulations on the birth of your daughter firstly, what day was she born?

NICK FALDO: On the 28th, 4.25 in the morning, a little early bird. I was there, huffing and puffing and holding and in charge of drinks and wet towels! I was, I did a good job! It was brilliant, magical.

Q. You started hitting balls when?

NICK FALDO: I've been doing bits and bobs. I've been doing a lot of training because my goal really was to have a rest but to train physically. So I've been power walking and biking at least five times a week for the first three weeks. Hopefully I have got the stamina back but this is the test. I needed to get that back again. I have done bits and bobs of practice, not quite enough really, but then last Monday I found out I had scraped the top 50 so we made a decision that, well, I've been trying to get in these event for the past three years so let's come and play.

Q. How difficult was it not to play last week?

NICK FALDO: After the first week I was not sure, but then once she arrived and I promised V to take a week off. To be there for the first smiles already, that is worth it. I think at this stage of my life and career, that is definitely more important, to spend some time with that little one.

Q. When was the last time you played here?

NICK FALDO: I think it was in 1995.

Q. And the last World Championship event?

NICK FALDO: I haven't been in one. I think I played the very first match play one because I was 64th in that....

Q. You played Tiger?

NICK FALDO: Played Tiger yes. Played the World Cup but it was the old World Cup before it changed. So I think this is the first one.

Q. Should last longer than the first one then?

NICK FALDO: Yes, hopefully, unless I get DQ's or get do something stupid.

Q. This long run of Europeans without a Major win, what is your take on that?

NICK FALDO: They are not built like NF are they! 

Q. Can you help them to become more like NF?

NICK FALDO: Yes I'd like to help them. If they want to come and seek my advice.

Q. What are they particularly lacking?

NICK FALDO: I think it is a little bit of everything. It is understanding the commitment required. Tiger has brought this attention to detail,. Everybody is talking about how Tiger has gone down, but he has obviously over the last five years inspired a lot of guys to come up. Rather than just being talented golfers, they are better prepared physically and mentally, technically, all those areas. They are turning golfers into athletes now.

Q. And our players are not there yet?

NICK FALDO: Well some are but it is a level of commitment, you have to give one hundred per cent in all areas now. The talent is there, but they have just got to put it all together.

Q. You have played a few times with Ian (Poulter). Has he got the talent?

NICK FALDO: He has obviously got a great dedication. He spends a couple of hours every morning getting his hair right so that is dedication and commitment right there - it is magnificent!!


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT