BRITISH OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2003
Nick Faldo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 STEWART McDOUGALL: Nick Faldo, 67.  217, plus four, and currently in the clubhouse.  New course record, obviously, to go with your previous course record of 63.  How did today's round compare?
NICK FALDO:  What a big difference.  Well, today -- the main thing is what's going to happen with the sunshine and the wind.  The golf course is firmer and faster.  But for me, actually my goal today was I thought, well, if I could shoot one more -- I believe I broke Jack's record, I think, last year.  I don't know if it's for under par rounds or for under 70s.  Rounds in the 60s?  That's what I was trying to do.  Two days, if I could add one more, that would keep Tiger at bay for a couple more years.  And playing with Poulter, as well, was fun.  We were jostling around and obviously we wanted to beat each other.  That kept my mind off it.  We were playing well.  And then made a great finish.  That was not what I expected.  A 3-iron into 17 and I went for the shot, but I got a nice, lucky break, ran it up the bank and it came back.  And you never know, if I'm four over now -- if the guys get on with it and play, I could be 8 back, but if it gets very breezy and rock hard this afternoon, I might end up being four back.  So we shall see.

Q.  How much lower could it have been today?  I'm thinking of the putts missed at 6, 7 and 8.
NICK FALDO:  Well, the one on -- 6 was a good try.  7 was the only -- I had an 8-iron to that green and it hit on the front edge and just stopped.  I probably should have hit a half 7 to make it release.  That could have been one. 
8 was one of the -- so many double breaking putts here we can't read.  They're twisting putts.  But there's always going to be a few out there. 

Q.  In a nutshell, why is it so hard this time?  Is this the toughest conditions you've played?
NICK FALDO:  Yeah, this is the truest links we've played for moons.  It's rock hard.  The wind is really blowing, and you see we just are unprepared for this.  We don't -- even to come out and practice, you wouldn't -- the odds on getting a day or week like this is so few in your whole career.  It's kind of like, do you spend hours and weeks practicing on this kind of condition, because you don't get it much.  It comes as a complete shock, really.  I wasn't expecting it to be this firm.  Plus with the pin positions being so wicked, right next to or on lumps and bumps and hollows, that's a good shot, you're happy.  To be honest, I'm happy to -- if you hit a great shot, that's fantastic.  A lot of these greens don't have -- there's bowls and lumps, you've only got a chunk to aim at.  And if you hit that and leave a 30-footer, you've got a putt which is breaking three different breaks and over a hump. 

Q.  So you'd rank that round among your very best open rounds?
NICK FALDO:  This one? 

Q.  Yes. 
NICK FALDO:  Yes, this is a great rounds.  Yes.  I haven't had the pressure, because it's the classic early morning Saturday, one where you have free run of it, you just go play.  So that's great.  But still finishing off, which is nice.

Q.  You mentioned on television after the round that yesterday was a tough day at the office and you almost said to yourself you couldn't care anymore.  Today it looked as though you were relaxed, you were enjoying it.  Are you enjoying golf more now than you ever have done?
NICK FALDO:  Well, I'm at a great stage in my career when I'm out there playing for -- I'm still -- almost called myself semi-competitive -- I'm out there just giving it the best shot I can.  Sure, I'm not the same golfer as ten years ago, but occasionally I throw something in that reminds me that I can still play, which is nice.  And yesterday I had holes that reminded me that I can't play.  Jerry Bennett called me last night and said you were 2-under for 12, which was the best there was.  And I thought, well, it wasn't so bad after all.  And then obviously to shoot 4-under, so I'm six under for whatever, 27 holes, which is probably as good as anybody.  That gives you a good boost.

Q.  Everybody yesterday was talking about how brutal the pin placements were.  Were they any better today?
NICK FALDO:  Yeah, I think they were.  I think they put them -- instead of putting them on top of the ridges -- they put them so close to the limit, that if they just come off a yard, it makes a lot of difference.  We had so many putts that just were falling by the hole.  They were breaking more in the last yard than they did for the four yards before it.  So they were definitely a little softer, I'm sure.

Q.  You must be particularly pleased with the way you played the par-5, the 14th.
NICK FALDO:  That was the first hole I played all week where I hit four shots I intended.  I had a good drive, and I thought I'll go with driver up the left, just hit it toward the grand stand and give me an angle.  So I did that.  And I thought, right, pitch and run, and I did that.  Cross down the slope up to about 8 feet or whatever and made the putt.  So that was the first hundred percenter of the week, I guess.

Q.  You're very, very popular out there.  Huge cheers everywhere you went.  Does that surprise you still?  And also how big a lift does that give you?
NICK FALDO:   Yesterday was the day -- I couldn't believe yesterday.  Everybody was -- I felt going around, they were cheering so hard for me.  The crowd has been fantastic for me this week.  It's been a real boost.  It gives me a really nice feeling inside, obviously.

Q.  Wonder if you could talk about the difference of holes 1 through 7 from 8 through 18.  When you finish 7, how many times are you on the tee and do you think you have a chance of birdie?
NICK FALDO:  When you finish 7, that next run, well, no, you just play -- you play hole-by-hole.  You just try to be really sensible.  You're trying to just keep the ball inside 30 feet, most of the time.  And inside 20 feet is a very good shot.  And inside 10 feet is a great shot.  So I think you just play the percentages.  No. 1, as I was saying, just trying to hit it in the right section of the green, that's all I've been trying to do, almost like forget the yardages.  You've got your basic yardage, obviously, but don't try and play right to the number, it's too darn difficult.  Just get it in the right area, that's a big help.

Q.  When you played the way you did today, is there a temptation to become more than semi-competitive and commit yourself even more?
NICK FALDO:  I'm pretty committed, yeah.  No, I give it my hundred percent.  I wouldn't say -- simple as that.

Q.  As far as scheduling and how much --
NICK FALDO:  Scheduling is tough.  Scheduling is tough.  I feel like I wear myself out doing too much.  So I'm trying to play a nice schedule to give myself a chance -- I enjoy practicing in between to get myself ready, rather than play, play, play at the moment.  I've changed that, obviously.  Before I wanted to play more.  Now I'd rather be trying to get myself strong so I'm fresh for each week, rather than arriving and being worn out.

Q.  You say you're not the same golfer you were ten years ago, but did it feel like it on 17 and 18?
NICK FALDO:  Yeah, on a few shots, yeah, it sure did.  I hit 3-wood into 8 today and that was a hell of a shot.  Yeah, I'm comfortable with what I'm doing with my swing.  I'm picking the shot and I know what to do and I stand up and try to do it.  And I putted very well.  Obviously that was a big turn around.  I holed a lot of good 6- to 10-footers today.

Q.  What did you do last night to celebrate?
NICK FALDO:  Are you kidding?  By the time I got in I was having my treatment and my parents -- my mum is cooking for me this week, they were stuck in the car park here until 9:20.  Food was on the table at five to ten.  I ate and went to bed.

Q.  Your favorite meal? 
NICK FALDO:  Yeah, good ol' chicken and pasta.  I'm on my eat-to-win or win-to-eat diet.

Q.  You said beforehand that if you're in contention on Sunday, you wouldn't want the wife watching too closely on television. 
NICK FALDO:  This baby is more important.  But she's doing great, thanks.  She's sitting quietly.  In theory, it should all happen sometime in another week's time.  I've got that in the contract.  (Laughter.)



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT