U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 16, 2002
Nick Faldo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







NICK FALDO:  I was only a little bit out.  There was no more than the four or five yards in between 1 and 5.  So it wasn't that bad, but that's it, yeah.  It was tough with the breeze.  You just have to accept what you've got and try and minimize any serious damage.  So I'm really pleased.  For me coming here, and not really -- this is not my golf course.  This is not really, for me -- this is great.  It gets me an exemption.  But to finish top-10, I didn't think I could do that at the beginning.  Well, yes and no.  I thought with everybody screaming at the golf course, I thought that would help me, because I had a good mental mindset towards this week.  I had nothing to lose, just go out and play as well as I could.  And I did.  So all in all it was a great week. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
NICK FALDO:  I made some really good slippery putts.  Great one on 8, that was seriously up-and-down.  That was shaped like Muirfield, when you miss it by a foot you're in two feet of rough.  Fortunately things like that kept me going.  You need that, otherwise it would just completely burn you, this place.  It was about 18 inches high.  It was right on the bottom of it.  It was like give it a controlled chunk --.

Q.   Since you mentioned Muirfield, do you feel you have the confidence level that you can take your game that extra bit?
NICK FALDO:  That's given me a real big boost.  I've changed a few things in the last month, a little bit of my swing, a little bit on strengthening, diet, everything.  So if I can have another month and keep -- it's given me a good boost to work hard the next month so when I get to Muirfield, you never know, I might -- I obviously love the place, and if I can play the wind shots the way I want to, you don't know, I might have a hell of a week.

Q.   Are you more motivated now?
NICK FALDO:  For sure.  That's a nice shot in the arm.  When you work hard and you get a reward like that, it gives you a big boost.  At least I know the things I'm doing make my golf better.  It's kind of nice at my age.

Q.   (Inaudible.) Top players over 40, what does it say on this golf course?
NICK FALDO:  You need to be patient, very patient.  You just accept what you get.  I think that was the key this week.  If you make a mistake, you've made a mistake.  You just move on.  And I managed to do that all week.  I didn't get rattled at anything.  And it was simple as that.  You just had to go with the flow.

Q.   Obviously everybody will be trying to stop Tiger at Muirfield.  How much will your familiarity with it figure into it, do you think, plus the way you're playing?
NICK FALDO:  Well, one of the great compliments I heard is Tiger watched tapes of me playing at St. Andrews, to go and then win there.  That's a nice compliment to me.  So I'd like to so I bet he'll be watching tapes of me winning at Muirfield, and see if he's worked out the secret.  I know what it is, but I'm not going to tell him.

Q.   How does Muirfield set up for Tiger?
NICK FALDO:  He'll struggle all the way (laughter.)

Q.   Can you comment on what Tiger has done again?
NICK FALDO:  I think round 2 was phenomenal.  I think in all that rain, he knew that if he went out and really -- he could have quite easily shot a 74, and it would have been a good day in that weather.  But he put his head down and he played such a good round, and he didn't want to give anything away to anybody, just in case the weather changed in the afternoon.  I think that was the key bit to the week, obviously.

Q.   Anyone can appreciate him coming out and winning a couple of majors in a row, and winning majors like this?
NICK FALDO:  Yeah, I said I set my mind on winning some, and I know he's doing that with regularity.  That just shows the inner strength he has.  That's the toughest things the guys have -- they won't be -- when Tiger has had enough, when he's decided he has made the records he wants to make, but I have a sneaking feeling he's going to keep that inner strength for ten more years, at least.

Q.   What is needed to be on his resume to say that he's the greatest golfer ever?
NICK FALDO:  Because of the difference in the time between Nicklaus and Tiger, I think a lot of people still look at 18 majors.  I think he's probably got -- I'm sure that's his goal.  I think that's the fairest way to be measured over time, on paper he's slightly ahead of Jack, isn't he?  In age and majors.  





End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT