VOLVO PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 25, 2002
Nick Faldo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 RODDY WILLIAMS:  Very well played round of 68, 9-under par.  Give us your thoughts on that round and your position going into the final round. 
NICK FALDO:  It was very deja vu.  I was birdieing the same holes and bogeying the same holes as yesterday, and you know, struggling on the front nine, I guess; but then I had what, 7 birdie chance and an eagle chance on the back nine.  And that was really good.  So I managed to turn it around again.  It was simple as that.  The same weather, very blustery.  It is tough to get the right angle action, and if you miss-hit a shot fractionally, or even if you hit a good shot and you get the wrong gust, then the ball comes up anywhere than anticipated.  
RODDY WILLIAMS:  Pleased with the position you are in at the moment?  Anders is going along well.
NICK FALDO: He's playing great.  That's incredible scoring for the conditions.  Yeah, I am very pleased.  That's as good as I can do.  Obviously there's a few little misses out there, but the way I have played those two back nines, I can't complain.
RODDY WILLIAMS:  Some questions, please.
Q.   He has never won on Tour.
NICK FALDO: All depends on how much the cushion is.    He's obviously playing very well.  That's the key about it.  If you are hitting solid shots in this wind, then you are obviously in control of your game.

Q.   Ever played with him at all?
NICK FALDO: No.

Q.   Why are you playing well this week?  You missed the cut last week.  What is the difference this week?
NICK FALDO: You know, a bit of Wentworth determination (laughs). 

Q.   You also, on TV, said you had something wrong with your arm last week?
NICK FALDO: It started at Augusta, Saturday night at Augusta, for some weird reason.  And it's all right. It is just fatigue, it just needs to  -- I have got a strengthening plan booked for the next month, so I can get it all back into good shape.

Q.   Which arm is it?
NICK FALDO:  (Raises left hand). It's not my beer drinking one, so it's all right. 

Q.   That would be an emergency then?
NICK FALDO: Yeah, there would be.

Q.   "Wentworth determination," you say, do you think it brings out the best in you?
NICK FALDO: Well, yeah.  I have played more rounds here and it's got good atmosphere.  I always enjoy it. 

Q.   How much is that determination influenced by your effort to qualify for the U.S. Open?
NICK FALDO: You know, what will be will be.  If I don't play great, it may well happen; but I can't do any better than what I am trying to do on each shot, so I just take it a shot at a time.  Sure, it's there, but I am  -- I am just motivated, trying to hit every shot as well as I can right now.

Q.   When you played with Monty last week   - and you are probably going to play with him tomorrow   - just what  -- how bad is his back when you are close up?
NICK FALDO: Well, he played great for those  -- shot 10-under those first two days  -- well, shot 20-under for the week, which is great scoring.  He was swinging well, and  looked like the same old Monty.

Q.   Just under what hinderance is he with the back?
NICK FALDO: I don't know.  I can't tell.  I haven't got my bionic eyes.

Q.   But is he not moaning and groaning?
NICK FALDO: No.  He didn't comment about it once.

Q.   You know what you got to do to get into the U.S. Open?
NICK FALDO: Some people say if I finish second, so... Possibly.  As long as it's not tied with 14 others. 

Q.   Is that record of six major championships something that sticks with you?
NICK FALDO: Well, it would hbe nice to get into this one because I am guaranteed another four more, (laughs).  Yeah, nice to keep the number going, but  --

Q.   You said yesterday that Wentworth has a rhythm to it.  Could you explain  --
NICK FALDO: Ask Harold Riley.  It is just a flow of the golf course.  Everything, you know, the whole thing, even from the practice ground to the putting green to the 1st tee, all those things are nice.  It's better than walking 200 yards in every different direction to find things.  It's got a good character this place.

Q.   Do you think the name Faldo on the leaderboard still intimidates rivals?
NICK FALDO: Nah, not anymore.  

Q.   Still must have some kind of psychological advantage for you, the guy that sees you up there and thinks  --
NICK FALDO:  "That guy used to be good.  He was scary a long time ago." 

Q.   What does it do for you Nick to see your name up--
NICK FALDO: I am enjoying it.  Obviously it's great to be playing well, and holing putts.  That's the best bet.  I like hitting good golf shots.  It's a real challenge out there, so it's nice to pull it off here and there.

Q.   Do you think if the weather is the same, the conditions the same tomorrow, experience will count for a lot?
NICK FALDO: Yeah, I think it will.  I think the weather is planned to be similar.

Q.   Wet.
NICK FALDO: Wet as well.  Okay I will bring my  -- bring a few extra towels.  Whatever.  Experience does pay off here.  It's going to be tough.  Certainly helps you in your calculations.  You can go on experience, but as I said, you can hit a shot here and the gust is going to happen and it's funny, you can get a totally different change to a gust here, obviously comes through the gully of the trees, so it's  -- it's good professional guesses, basically.

Q.   Remember what your rounds were here last year?
NICK FALDO: No, in the book.



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT