VOLVO PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 24, 2002
Nick Faldo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Nice back nine.
NICK FALDO: Yeah, that was really great.  As I said, I played well yesterday, the driving was bad.  But then I just kept firing away, and I hit -- I finally made a putt on 11 and made a very -- two really good solid shots at 12, driver and 3-wood to the front edge, two good putts there.  Made a good putt at the next.  And then the only bad shot I hit, pulled a 5-wood down 15.  It's that first bunker and had a clear shot, 4-iron into the  green.  Then hit driver and 3-iron and holed about a 25 plus-footer on 17 which is great.  And got up-and-down.  So I was just hanging there.  I was just really trying my best on each shot. 

Q.   What is it about this place, last year (inaudible)   --
NICK FALDO: Wentworth's got great rhythm to it.  It is a great layout and I think experience pays around here, especially in this sort of weather, you know, and I am still learning how to read these greens.  Try different things everyday and it seemed to work today. 

Q.   Driving well?
NICK FALDO: I drove well at the back nine.  Good tee shots. 

Q.   Did you use every club in the bag?
NICK FALDO: I don't know if I used every club in the bag, probably did.  Yeah, I guess I did. 

Q.   (Inaudible)?
NICK FALDO:  It would be nice to keep up this momentum, that would be great.  If I can carry on that, that's all I can try and do, isn't it?  Just try  -- yeah, I am just trying to be aggressive on every hole and go for it.  It doesn't matter if it doesn't happen, I just want to see if I can make it happen.

Q.   (Inaudible)?
The crowds are growing.

Q.   (Inaudible)?
NICK FALDO: On each shot really just be well focused and, you know, just pushing myself a little harder to make myself do it.

Q.   Are you really enjoying golf this year?
NICK FALDO: It's nice to play well. I really struggled the last couple of years, so it is nice to hit some good shots; make a score.  That's the most important thing, make a score. 

Q.   How is the injury right now?
NICK FALDO: It's not bad.  It's there, but Dale does a great job.  He gets me back to sort of zero.  It will tighten up during the day, but it's not bad.   



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT