THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 17, 2015
Nick Faldo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  SIR NICK FALDO: Not bad, eh?  Well, 17 made it for me, didn't it.  That was special.  That was quite a -- hello, Jim Nantz.  How are you, my friend?  I've had a bit of a roller coaster day.  This morning my cut was open again, so I went back to the hospital and had it glued again and I didn't know what I wanted to do, and then the kids looked at me and said, dad, what are we doing?  And I said, I don't know.  They said, I think you should go.  When your kids say you're going, you're going, aren't you.  That was the goal of the week.  The goal was to stand on the bridge and get the picture.  I knew I was bringing this thing, bust out my ol' Pringle, so I knew I was doing that.  That was the image or the goal of the week, so I thought, you've got to do it.  Matthew was great.  He said, come on, I don't care what you shoot, just walk.  So we walked.  And I got better and played better, and I hit some really good shots.  Finally made a birdie, or two in a row, and a great shot into 12 and 13 and 15 and then a 3 at 17.  How could I do that?  I think I've done that twice.  I did that 10 years ago -- I think I've only done it twice, last round 10 years ago.  That relaxed me at the last because I said I don't care what I do up 18 now because I've just made 3 at 17.  That's unbelievable.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  SIR NICK FALDO: Incorrect.  This is the '87 Muirfield one, real cashmere.   Q.  Why did you choose that one?  SIR NICK FALDO: Because it was my first Open I won.  Because if you were paying attention, I wore the other one on Wednesday.   Q.  So shooting a 71 --  SIR NICK FALDO: Yeah, if I'm going -- I mean, I was dying to make the cut for Matthew.  That's what I've been trying to do for all these last 10 years, but it's tough.  I play two tournaments a year, and you can't -- I can't fall out of a TV tower and really be a golfer.  That's pretty darned good.  That might be it.  If I've just shot 71 and done all that today, I think that might be the -- that might be my last walk.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  SIR NICK FALDO: No, if I'm sensible, that is it.  I will do my best to be sensible.   Q.  The jumper seemed to appear going up 16.  Did it come out with one of your family --  SIR NICK FALDO: One of my friends was carrying it.  I didn't want to burden poor Matthew, so we had it all planned.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  SIR NICK FALDO: It could well do.  I mean, look at the top.  The boys at the top, well, they're all good and they're all determined.  Rosey plays nicely.  He always looks good, always threatening the hole.  He's cruised along, hasn't -- he's just done nicely.  Now it's pressure time.  Now you're trying to win The Open Championship.  It's a different ballgame.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  SIR NICK FALDO: I was lucky, wasn't I?  After this morning, yeah, I didn't think we'd be playing.  The forecast is growing tomorrow.  I mean, and then the sun comes, and it got better and better and better, and I thought, we're lucky.  This was a treat of a day.   Q.  What time were you at the hospital?  SIR NICK FALDO: I was late.  I went there at -- I didn't get -- 11:00-ish, and I didn't get back to the house, and it's now about quarter to 12:00 and they were all looking at me saying what are we doing, and I said, I don't know, sort of meeting in Matthew's bedroom, and they said, come on, dad.  Now we're in panic station.  I only got here at 12:15 and I'm on the tee at 12:58.   Q.  Without the rain delay (inaudible)?  SIR NICK FALDO: Without the rain delay, yeah, maybe.  By the time I was -- by the time I woke up this morning I looked at this blooming thing, and I thought, it's not fun.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  SIR NICK FALDO: Well, the view is so good, isn't it?  I'm lucky.  Well, they've done such a good job and it looks so pretty, the stands all being in R&A blue and the town, the sun, the clouds.  I thought I'd stand and look and soak it up, so I'll remember that.   Q.  Because of that, though, is it a little bit harder to say --  SIR NICK FALDO: Yeah, you can't beat that view.  That is the greatest view in golf.  As I said, if I'm sensible, that is it.  Why not?  I mean, that was --   Q.  What were your specific emotions on the bridge?  SIR NICK FALDO: I don't know what I really said to myself.  I was just trying to say, thank you, St. Andrews.  That's why I looked at the gods, the St. Andrews golfing gods at 17.  I thought, thank you very much for that.  I felt beat up yesterday, but that was one of my great moments of any career, making a 3 there and walking the walk.  That won't get any better.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  SIR NICK FALDO: No, I've got a day job.  I've got a real day job.  I'm very happy in my TV tower.  It's fun up there with the gang.  No, no, no.  I've been 11 years of TV now, so I'm not going to be a golfer again.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  SIR NICK FALDO: All right, that's it.  That's it.  All right?  You happy?  All right, yeah.  It's good enough.  I'll think about it on the way home.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT