UBS WARBURG CUP
November 16, 2001
Isao Aoki
Nick Faldo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
NICK FALDO:  We had a fantastic scoring match.  We made six birdies and an eagle.  So that was just a great day.  I mean, I honestly thought Hale and Calcavecchia, I was talking to Des Smyth, saying we've both got a tough match and if we get a win out of them, that's worth two points, I think.  So things went great.  Obviously we had never partnered with each other, but we knitted together just great.  Isao holing his second shot and then holing those two putts on 15 and 16 were just major.  I mean, they made a great 2 on 14 to get it back to all level, and then we played with two birdies  -- all four guys played really well.  It was really down to, on the greens, who made those putts and we were all around the hole.  Really, at the start, it was all Hale.  I'm thinking, Hale holes a downhill on 2, holes a good one on 3 for the halve, holes another good one on 4 for a halve, and then he holes another great one on 8.  But we came alive.  I hit it stiff on nine.  Then holing a 9-iron and then a great finish.  So that was as good of golf as I've played and a team match for a long time.  That was great.  Isao stole the show.  
 
ISAO AOKI:  I very appreciated being in this tournament and if I have next time, this kind of game, I would like to enjoy next time  -- to see Mr.  Faldo is a main tradition for me  -- (inaudible) -- I can read his line always with a big win this time.  I think this to win is because we have good relation with Mr.  Faldo.  I would like to try for tomorrow. 
 
Q.  Can you compare the golf course and the pressure of today's event to what happened in  '91? 
 
NICK FALDO:  No.  This is  -- we're all very competitive, but we're also walking down the fairway saying, "How are your kids" and "How is the wife"?  You're not saying, "How's the Ryder Cup."  It's very competitive.  We guys never want to roll over and play as hard as we can, but at the end of the day we are here to really enjoy the week and have fun week.  Fun, entertainment, a bit of relaxed stuff, yeah.  
 
Q.  How about the golf course itself, how tough was it playing?
 
NICK FALDO:  Yeah, the course is tough, but the only saving grace we have is it's soft.  The sand is so soft, wherever you hit the ball, it will stop.  So obviously for us professionals, that gives us a chance to just play aggressive and we know where we hit it, it's going to play so it gives us a great chance to go for it.   
 
Q.  All that being said, entertainment and fun, for the guys who were on the '91 team, would it be more special to be able to come back here and lead with a victory or does that enter into it?
 
NICK FALDO:  No, it's a totally different event.  You can't compare the two.  One is sort of beyond golf and this one is really, it's getting back to  -- this is probably the original concept of the Ryder Cup 75 years ago, 24 guys, all respect each other as golfers, all play like hell on the golf course and then we all go sit back and chat and tell some good bar stories.  
 
Q.  In 1991, the course was very new, Pete Dye just designed it, Hurricane Hugo had come through and it slowed things down.  So it was a very new course and had not much play at that point.  How do you see the course now, what kind of changes in the golf course? 
 
NICK FALDO:  I can't see that  --  to be honest, it's tough, ten years ago, to know the changes.  I can't remember the greens being so undulating.  Now they seem even more demanding.  I think that's the important thing, is just hitting the  -- you don't have to be silly aggressive, you've got to be smart aggressive.  You just can't go long or can't go the wrong side or up some of these big slopes.  So, you know I think that's the important thing.  You just get the ball in the right place.  
 
Q.  You talk about bar stories.  When you get to meet in 25 years' time, is there anything out there that you will probably talk about or smile about? 
 
NICK FALDO:  Well, Isao holing his 9-iron was just fantastic.  I'm going:  "Draw!  Draw!  Draw!  Spin!  Spin! Spin!"  And it did all that.  That was a great shot.  Foursomes is tough because you're right there and you're feeling it; you're feeling it for your partner.  You want him to hit the exact shot you feel is right because you can't get all over them.  You know, we had a great day.  Very fortunate.  We hit the ball close and then we holed the putt, wow.  Then Isao started at the final finish, got down to 15, they putted first and missed; and same at 16 they putted first and missed.  It was pressure putts, too, really read them well, because they are big putts.  We made them  -- which we did, and we win the match.  You miss them both by a fraction and we could have lost that match.  So, that was good to play  -- that was as good of a match as I've played ever in my career.  It was great.  
 
Q.  Your reaction on the 9-iron going in the hole?
 
NICK FALDO:  Isn't surprised.  (Laughs). 
 
ISAO AOKI:  Nick's a computer coach.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT