VOLVO PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 28, 2001
Nick Faldo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








NICK FALDO:   Yeah, I think that was the big breakthrough, really.  You know, I had a good day.  I went out and had good intentions, and attacked the golf course.  Played some really good shots:  The 4-iron, I hit up the third was a hell of a shot.  Then holed a bunker shot on 9; that's what I was trying to do, so it was really a great feeling to try and do something and do it.  That's what I was talking about before.  It's like making things happen when you need it.  So that was really  -- and I played good coming in.  I had some very good shots.  About the only bad swing I made was the swing with the 3-wood on the fairway on 18.  I don't know what happened with the pitch because I was feeling all right.  I was feeling aggressive and had to land it just on the fringe there and it just came off a yard short in the thick stuff and just killed it.  That is a shame to come up a little bit short, but all in all, to play like that on a final day was a really good feeling.


Q.  The reaction from the crowd you got the whole way around? 

NICK FALDO:   It was really fantastic.  It was like the good old days.  That was really a super feeling.  The crowd was right with me.  Really made me feel good today.  It was just how I used to feel.  I used to go on the green and think come on, do something, just to create another cheer.  That's all I was trying to do, just focused in, trying to get that ball in the hole every time.  That was a very good feeling to have again.


Q.  The drive you hit down, the 3-wood on 17? 

NICK FALDO:   That was a bit special.


Q.  How far was that?  Were you slightly confused over the second shot as a result? 

NICK FALDO:   I was in between clubs  -- I had a choice 5-wood over the green and if I didn't quite hit the 3-iron.  Because I played the 5-wood the other day and it landed in the left rough on-line with the pin and I thought, "Well if I land it in there again," but actually cut it up.  Yeah, it was six of one and half a dozen of another.  The 5-wood would probably go over, which was fine; I could probably make a 4 from there.  I hit a really good tee shot on 15.  I played really good.


Q.  When was the adrenaline last going like that?

NICK FALDO:   Probably not since we won the World Cup for England, again  -- get my plug in.  That was the last time we were under pressure like that, I think. 


Q.  Will you maybe re-think your schedule at all?

NICK FALDO:   I can't.  I can't rethink anything.  I have my schedule.  I've got my 15 to play, which I'm only just squeezing in.  So, no. 


Q.  How many more will you have?  Up to the Ryder Cup?

NICK FALDO:   Just the three majors and Loch Lomond.  Just need good stuff.  More good stuff.


Q.  You must feel like this has set you up for the summer though?

NICK FALDO:   I think it is a good start.  Yeah, because there's no flukes in that.  The swing was really good.  Fanny has been a big help.  We've really worked hard, from the last couple tournaments in America, and the big word is trust now.  I'm starting to trust  -- I know what I've got to do.  It's just like  -- I just keep telling myself to do it.  And if I do it, it's a little Catch 22; you've just got to make yourself do it, so you're going to trust you're going to do it.  Simple as that, or as complicated as that.


Q.  You said you might find it difficult to control the competitive juices yesterday. 

NICK FALDO:   No, it was great.  I was really enjoying getting on a roll and feeling the heat and hitting the shots.  I hit all the shots how I wanted to hit them.  There were some tricky shots out there.  I've never known Wentworth to play like this.  We had a couple of holes where  -- like, was it 13, you're standing over a wedge and you can't go for the pin, because you can't land it  -- there's a bunker there, and you can't land it on the green because it's going to go  -- anything landing on the green downwind was releasing 25 yards.  So you've got to jiggle a wedge to land on the upslope short of the green.  There were a couple other instances like that.  So, it's very unusual the way the course has played this week.


Q.  After Carnoustie, did you think there might not be weeks and days like this again? 

NICK FALDO:   Yeah, that was my lowest over the last decade.  No, I always knew  -- I've had great help.  That's the most important thing I've had great help from Cheryl, to my mate, Danny, to Fanny now, from V (Valerie)  -- gosh, everybody who has been involved in helping me, my physio guy, everybody is 100% behind me.  I've got a great team.  I've always needed a team and I've got a damn good team now, everybody helping me.


Q.  You say trusting yourself to do what you've got to do out there.  Was there any one particular thing in the swing? 

NICK FALDO:   Maybe it's just when you get nervous, it's getting to the finish.  You know, it's finding a finishing position and making sure you get there.  When you get nervous things don't quite  -- I still make sure I turn my shoulders fully on the backswing, a few other bits, and make sure I get to the finish.  If you don't quite get there, you're out of whack. 


Q.  When are you back to the States? 

NICK FALDO:   I'm going Thursday to Orlando, practice and then I go to Memphis before the Open. 


Q.  Are you pleased that Oldcorn is hanging on? 

NICK FALDO:   It's a great achievement.  As I said yesterday, tough golf course.  It was demanding a lot of finesse shots, and when you are nervous playing finesse shots, it ain't too easy.  So he's done a great job to hang on, and good luck to him.  I just don't thank Mr.  Cabrera because he might have cost me a Ryder Cup spot. (Laughs).


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT