U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 11, 1997
Nick Faldo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
 NICK FALDO:  I think it was entitled "Leadbetter Does Washington."
 It's a hell of a movie.  Yes, it's an HBO special that we're
doing, late night special.  Actually, that's normal.  As you know,
he likes to work with a camera to, you know, check things out,
slow the swing down so he gets a good look at it, you know.  If
you're swinging well, it's hopefully only very minor things that
are, you know, can be tweaked to make things a little bit better
or, you know, minute changes so, you know, things are going well.
 He's helped me.  We're just trying to get a little better.  The
reason he's touching my body is we're trying to get a better left
knee position.  My left  knee sort of goes too far towards the
right.  So, basically I'm trying to keep it same location and
even let it come up a little bit, which helps me.

 LES UNGER:  So you then retire to some room where you can
analyze the video together and try to work on it?

 NICK FALDO:  Yeah, we do that all the time. You know, that's
a standard practice.  I hit a dozen balls.  They film me from
four different angles.  We go back and look at it.  It's a much,
much quicker way.  I get the feedback.  I can say right.  We can
go back and work on that.  So, gone are the days of hitting a
thousand balls to make a little change.  You hit a dozen balls
now and you can start changing things right away.

 LES UNGER:  Talk a little bit about Congressional, if you
will.

 NICK FALDO:  It's just a very good, long, solid, honest, you
know, it's all-in-front-of-you golf course.  I mean, there's no
-- you know, there's no surprises.  There's no trick holes.  It's
a good, solid golf course.  It's a good blend.  There's some,
as we know, very long holes.  There's 6 and 10 and a few other
holes are very long.  There's no real letups.  There's no easy
 holes.  Even the short ones have very -- you know, tighter pins,
so it's going to demand a lot of good -- just good, solid play
for the whole week.  It's as simple as that.

 LES UNGER:  We'll take questions, please.


 Q.   Nick, you were obviously disappointed with your finish
last Sunday.  A lot of good came out of last week, didn't it?

 NICK FALDO:  Yeah, you know, I putted an awful lot better.  It
was good to get in that position, you know, made mistakes coming
in this week, didn't feel as good.  That's why we've been working
on the leg.  It's as simple as that.  As the pressure gets on,
it accentuates any faults.  You know, we were able to go straight
to work on that.  You know, called Lead straight away Sunday night
and said, Let's get out there Monday and get working on it correctly
straight-away.  So, I've been doing that, and it feels, you know
-- I feel that's, you know, I've made some improvements there,
that's going to, you know, be good for this week.

 Q.   Anyway, you called Dave Sunday night, he didn't come
here early?

 NICK FALDO:  Who's that?

 Q.   David Leadbetter. 

 NICK FALDO:  He was already here.

 Q.   Oh, he was here?

 NICK FALDO:  Oh, yeah, he was here.  I was trying to track him
down and just get him out there.

 Q.   How does this golf course fit your game and your game
fit this golf course?

 NICK FALDO:  Well, it's a demanding driving golf course.  You
know, we all know about the rough. The rough is very severe. 
It's very consistent, so, if you drive in that, you know, it's
getting down to the stage, there's very few lucky spots or thin
spots where you might be able to go for the green.  But, generally,
you know, you're going to have to be playing out and hitting in
from wherever, you know, 1800 yards for the shot.  You know, I'm
happy with the golf course.  It suits the way I play.  It's a,
you know, I think it definitely -- favors this style of golf course,
so I'm more than happy with it.

 Q.   Can you talk a little bit about 6 and 10. They're converted
par 5s.  I know yesterday Greg said that if the situation wasn't
right, he might even lay up on 6.  Does a converted par 5 maybe
get a player to -- force a player to take a risk that he wouldn't
normally take? 

 NICK FALDO:  Well, they're obviously shorter, so they're within
the full -- personally, I think 6 would have looked a nice par
5 if we'd gone back, whatever, because the front right pins would
have been a great pin for, you know, a third shot.  And then in
the back corner, I know I was trying to hit a 3-iron in the back
corner yesterday and you're landing on a down slope, so it's not
really a par 4 hole.  It should have been a, you know, just in
range -- I mean, it's a great two-shot par 5.  I mean, 10 is okay.
 10's, from the tee we are playing, it looks like a normal, tough
4.  But, as I said, 6, I think, would have been -- they could
have kept the same.

 Q.   Nick, there's been a lot of talk about the attention,
the crowd, the gallery that Tiger's received here and other tournaments.
 Obviously, you played with him at The Masters.  Any anecdotes
or anything unusual about the crowd or the accommodation other
players have to make that are playing with him because of the
excessive noise or the stampeding or whatever?

 NICK FALDO:  No.  No problem at all.

 Q.   Nick, if you have to win one more title, or only one
more title, would it be a U.S. Open, and why is it the one you
want most? 

 NICK FALDO:  Well, yeah, obviously, this is, you know, one of
two I don't have, and those are very, you know, as long as I feel
I've got, you know, competitive, these are the two tournaments
I want to win more.  I mean, it's as simple as that.  And, here
we are at the U.S. Open.  So, this is obviously -- this is the
one to concentrate on.

 Q.   Nick, could you talk about finishing on a par 3 and just
your thoughts on that hole.

 NICK FALDO:  Well, I think it's a great hole.  I mean, especially
17 before it, I think it will -- there's an awful lot of permutations
in your state of position, since you're on the 72nd hole, you
know, if you're leading or by how many or if you're trailing or
whatever or whatever you need, it's going to create a -- it's
a big-decision shot.  I mean, if they put the pin down the left
side, you know, really it's -- you know, you'll be playing --
you still have to hit a great shot.  I played a 4-iron yesterday,
so it's not as if it's a little, you know, an easy 9-iron across
the water.  It's just hitting it in the middle of the green is
a hell of a shot.  So, I think you're going to see that's really
the play.  But unless you needed a 2 to tie, I mean, then your
big decision is whether to go for it or  whether you could trust
making a 25-foot putt across from the middle of the green.  So
I think it would be interesting.

 Q.   How do you feel about finishing on the par 3?  I mean,
just another hole?

 NICK FALDO:  I'm very happy with it.  It's a great hole.

 Q.   Nick, do you feel that people are making too much of
the length of this golf course?  I mean, how is it going to differ
from other U.S. Opens?  People really are making a big deal about
this.

 NICK FALDO:  Well, I think it's the longest, isn't it?  There's
a few holes -- I've played -- as it's slowly drying out now, it's
getting better, but, you know, I played in practice and we've
got the third hole -- sorry, the second hole was a wood, a 3-wood,
you've got the third, I hit a driver -- hit a driver r 3-irons
or 4-irons into that one.  We all know about 6.  I mean, driving
a 3-iron has been my shortest club I've hit at that.  You've got
two monster par 5s.  10th hole, shortest I've hit there is a 3-iron
so far.  That's before you get to the tough part.  Then the run
in, I mean, they've got 480 17th  hole.  I mean, it's long.  It's
not -- you know, normally there's -- you know, you're in the 6-iron,
4-iron, 3-iron range a lot on this golf course, more than anywhere
else.  So, I think we're justified by saying it's long.

 Q.   Is everyone going to have to make an adjustment here,
every player on the field?

 NICK FALDO:  Well, not really.  You can't make an adjustment.
 You can't do any more than hit a solid tee shot and play it.
 You can't say, oh, I'll hit it 40 yards over this week.  I mean,
you've just got to -- but the way the golf course is designed,
it's very fair.  The long irons you can feed in from the front
of the green, you're going to be happy 20 feet under the hole.
 That's what you're trying to do.  This is going to be a, you
know, just keep the ball in the right position week.

 Q.   You've been in the situation before, similar to Tiger
this year.  People have speculated about the Grand Slam.  You
had a year in '90 when you won two of them.  Is it realistic and
is it fair to a player to talk about that?

 NICK FALDO:  Well, it's realistic because it's all possible.
 As we obviously must know, it's pretty difficult because nobody
has done it, so -- but  it's as simple as that.  It's possible.
 Obviously the pressure of -- the pressure of just getting your
game timed right to win one major is pretty impressive, you know;
two, you've got to get your game absolutely spots on.  Everybody
else is going to be affected for a four-month spell.  You know,
as we all know, it's a pretty difficult feeling.  As the pressure
goes with the media, if anybody does start getting closer, you
know, I'm sure the media will be pretty intense.  That could upset
you, as well.  So, it's probably making it more difficult as time
goes by.  I told you we would wear them out.

 LES UNGER:  You're sure?  Okay.  Nick, thank you.


 End of FastScripts.....            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT