DORAL-RYDER OPEN
March 3, 1997
Nick Faldo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 

Q.  Nick, you've seen the course for the first time since the changes?
 
NICK FALDO:  It's very nice, lovely job; a lot of bunkers.  It's just basically squeezed everything in and added a few contours to the greens, but it looks really nice, the bunkers are in nice shape. 
 

Q.  When you won here in '95, you were 15-under.  Can you see that winning here, the way it is?
 
NICK FALDO:  Well, I think one area is -- it's narrow.  But, if you're driving well, then you're going to be on the fairways and it could be some new tighter pins.  I think there's a few -- the hardest is they shaved off some of the edges on the greens.  They fall back into the water.  So, I think that will be -- that can make you play a little bit more smarter, more defensive or whatever, or you've got to -- you can't come up short examine - it's going to stay there.  It will come back into the water.  So, who knows?  It's tough to tell.  If the weather is perfect, but I'm sure it's going to  make a shot or two different.  A shot or two a day is a lot. That could be 4 to 8 shots in the week.  So, I'm sure it's going to make a difference in the score by the end of the week. 
 

Q.  Do you feel you're on a roll?  You played so well in LA.  Do you maintain that --
 
NICK FALDO:  I'd like to think I can do that, yeah. Go out and see if I can play the same game physically and mentally this week and see how strong everything is. 
 

Q.  The change in the climate and the trip across?
 
NICK FALDO:  I came straight away on Sunday when we finished.  So to get over jet lag, and the climate is different, but this is not too hot yet.  We shall see. 
 

Q.  How do you like the changes; specifically, on 18?
 
NICK FALDO:  I haven't seen that one yet.  I've only done the front 9. 
 

Q.  What about No. 4, par 3?
 
NICK FALDO:  4 is -- 
 

Q.  It's a lot tougher now, isn't it?
 
NICK FALDO:  No -- well, I don't know.  The difficulty there now is you can't go long right, because you roll off down into the water, so -- but I always thought that left-hand trap was very tough, it was a deep pot bunker, and if you went in there, it was a tough lie, tough to get up-and-down.  So I think he's made that left side easier and made the right side  harder.  I think you probably have to play that hole a little more defensive.  You can't go long, long right, otherwise you're in the water now. 
 

Q.  What about the par 5, 8, the front 8?
 
NICK FALDO:  Same thing, now you've got -- if they put the pins long and you're pitching past it, if it comes back, it's going to keep coming back, so that's the -- I think that's where it can add a -- it is a mental thing to make, isn't there?  How aggressive you can be to land right in the number. 
 

Q.  Is there a difference in the distance you get here from the heavier Florida air than, say, California?
 
NICK FALDO:  Yeah, I found the ball going -- well, I think because we were pretty close to the coast, last week the ball was going very short.  I think you get a lot of spin because it was so tight and such a hard turf.  I thought that was a bit tough last week.  We were hitting one club more than I normally hit, but now I can't go long.  So, that was quite a battle and that's why I was pleased on Sunday, because I had made a go of it.  If I could be pin-high today, get it up there, be aggressive, I thought that would be really good for me, so I was pleased that I did that. 
 

Q.  Is there a difference from there to here?
 
NICK FALDO:  Yeah, I thought it would fly longer here. 
 

Q.  You're doing a golf course project with Marriott in  Orlando.  Do you plan down the road to get involved more and more with golf course design?
 
NICK FALDO:  Yeah, I'm doing well.  I've got some good projects coming on.  I do a lot of projects with IMG in Asia. And I just got a very big project in Portugal, 36 holes there. And, then with Marriott, I'm doing one in Mallorca with Marriott and there's future sites in America with Marriott. 
 

Q.  What do you like about that type of work?
 
NICK FALDO:  I just enjoy the crazy bit, a little artistic bit comes out in me.  It's great to go out and you want to create something and you want to do the best you possibly can, try and create some nice looking holes and some challenging golf courses. 
 

Q.  Is there creativity in that that you don't feel in actual playing or is there a creative side to both?
 
NICK FALDO:  I think it's got to be creative to both, because you enjoy -- I feed off good golf courses and enjoy the subtlety of the slopes and where you have to position the ball.  And the TOUR here always goes for the four best pins on the green.  So, that sort of keeps you awake.  You have to be paying attention to where you hit it, otherwise it willy-nilly fire it in 20 feet and you're in a mess. 
 

Q.  Are you working with mostly professional architects?
 
NICK FALDO:  Steve Smyers in Portugal. 
 

Q.  He's a good man? 
 
NICK FALDO:  Yeah, he does good work. 
 

Q.  Good player, too?
 
NICK FALDO:  And so things on that side are going well for me.  I don't want too much work, but I enjoy that. 
 

Q.  Are you influenced by any of the classic, traditional Hall of Fame presenters?
 
NICK FALDO:  I like the McKenzie style bunkering, obviously George Thomas, last week, is a lovely style golf course.  I want to build golf courses -- I admire last week, because one bunker is key to the whole hole.  It's different in Florida, because it's dead flat.  You have to create -- but that's the skill of putting one bunker and the contours of the green where you've got to drive down the left-hand side of the fairway; if you drive down the right-hand side, you're not quite in the right place.  And, I think that is the skill of making it -- really getting the most out of a golf course.  Yes, you see 60 yards of fairway, but you know you need to be left half, right half, to get the best angle in. 
 

Q.  Nick, in analyzing last years Masters, the final round, can you put your finger on three or four things that you thought were most crucial probably in that span of 8 through 13.  I know even on your conference call you talked about making the birdie on 17 the day before was key, because that put you with Greg.  When you replay it, what do you call up as being the most important? 
 
NICK FALDO:  I think possibly it might have started for me at the 6.  I bogeyed 5.  I had a really good -- I wasn't perturbed by that because I had a good second shot.  And to make a birdie down 6, that is a tough one.  The next key would have been the par hole on 8, because I hit -- that pin right there, it was such an easy pitch and I messed it up and then got away with it.  So, that was key.  And the tee shot really on 12 was the next key one.  And then the 2-iron on 13.  That was the -- that sort of span was really -- and even the 4-iron I hit down 15, that was still key, because I could do anything from up there on top of the hill. 
 

Q.  Nick, Sam Snead once told a story when he won his first PGA, he was playing Jim Turnesa, and the match was close.  And, at the end, he noticed Jim was changing his routine.  It was an extra step or extra waggle.  And he said he's tight.  He noticed something, and he felt confident himself in playing against him.  Did you see anything like that in Greg?
 
NICK FALDO:  Yeah, I think the most obvious we saw was he started regripping the club a few extra times, so he was over the ball a lot longer than normal. 
 

Q.  You won 900 plus thousand last year.  You won The Masters.  How would you classify 1996?
 
NICK FALDO:  Well, The Masters was great and the rest of the year wasn't as good as I'd have liked, but -- the  British Open was close.  It's funny, putting it all together, I didn't play well -- I hit a lot of tees to greens at the U.S. Open, but I'm never close enough to the pin.  And the opposite, Oakland Hills, the putter wasn't quite as good.  But it's getting the blend.  And it was -- after Augusta it was -- it's still a great year, but it was disappointing that I couldn't do better.  But, it's still a great year. 
 

Q.  Is it hard on you when you win the first major of the year and then you start thinking that it's going to be an incredible year?
 
NICK FALDO:  You never think that with golf.  You never think that with golf.  That's the beauty or the damnation of it.  You can be playing lousy and win two weeks, and win two tournaments, you can win two tournaments, two weeks later you think you can't hit your hat.  That is the beauty of golf.  So you never -- I never plan ahead more than tomorrow on how well I'm playing. 
 

Q.  Nick, do you think about the extra picks for the Ryder Cup, the two extra picks?
 
NICK FALDO:  There's only one now.  I'm staking my claim to the other one after last week. 
 

Q.  There's some that's lobbying for four wild card picks?
 
NICK FALDO:  Who's lobbying? 
 

Q.  Monti (Colin Montgomerie).
 
NICK FALDO:  They've got Ken to lobby against, so it  might be more than lobbying.  They might need a grenade. 
 

Q.  Would you be in favor?
 
NICK FALDO:  I would, because I like to assume I've got one of them now.  And I'd also like to think -- I've only given myself six tournaments to make the team.  So -- six more.  So, it's bad to be using a pick on somebody you assume is going to be on the team.  So I think you've wasted the pick on me, which that's what -- our argument was last time, but Ken said why change it.  I don't know if they can suddenly change the rules, change the goal post halfway through the year. 
 

Q.  Nick, what do you think about the new Europeans rule, to include the three majors over here in the tournaments played?
 
NICK FALDO:  They have? 
 

Q.  But the money is not included.
 
NICK FALDO:  Just the numbers? 
 

Q.  You can play the three majors here and eight over there.
 
NICK FALDO:  Oh, that's pretty good.  That should be close.  I could get close to that, then, in theory.  I'm still pushed to get to 11. 
 

Q.  You wouldn't play the extra tournament or two to have membership over there?
 
NICK FALDO:  A couple of extra tournaments is hard work.  You bust your buns from -- that's what I'm trying to  avoid is dashing around, just to be -- it makes life difficult just dashing around just to get your name on a sheet of paper. 
 

Q.  Do you think that rule change will be good for something like Monty?
 
NICK FALDO:  That would be good, very good I would have thought.  Yeah, I would have thought -- it has definitely softening, Europeans definitely softened on that one.  I think that's advantageous to some guys along the way, yeah. 
 

Q.  Would you say that the Ryder Cup has become very big, but from your point of view you have to take care of yourself first and let the Ryder Cup fall --
 
NICK FALDO:  Yeah, very much, I think you want to play -- you definitely want to be playing the team, but you can't go flying backwards and forwards to please everybody.  It's a lot further across there than you think.  To do it properly means you've got to take a chunk out of this TOUR, and it doesn't work, because I'm trying to concentrate my main season from sort of now, February -- January through to August. September is your main season.  You can't suddenly pick up a month and -- there's just not enough weeks.  That's why I said, I'm playing in America and that's it.  If I play well in America then I will -- if I'm playing well, I should be on the team. 
 

Q.  Was there ever a point where you thought that making the Ryder Cup team was very important and that you ought to  play more events, four years ago, six years ago?
 
NICK FALDO:  Yeah, sure.  I mean, I think -- but I'd like to think that -- Ryder Cup is always -- you always call it Ryder Cup here, every odd year.  So, it's always been a priority making the team, but now I'd like to think I've got my record, to help get me the last little leg that I need. 
 

Q.  In terms of your record, where would you rate yourself right now in terms of what you want to achieve as a golfer?
 
NICK FALDO:  I still feel I've got another -- who knows what more I'm going to achieve.  I still feel that I've got a good -- I figure I have another five years to really go at it as hard as I can.  We'll see what happens. 
 

Q.  Are you gunning for the U.S. Open?
 
NICK FALDO:  Yeah, yeah, of course.  If I had a choice, that is the one I'm trying to prepare for, make sure I've got -- I'm really strong for that one. 
 

Q.  How many tournaments are you going to play worldwide?
 
NICK FALDO:  Worldwide?  Probably about 23, 24, something like that. 
 

Q.  How many is that on the PGA TOUR?
 
NICK FALDO:  Here?  It would be about 15, 16. 
 

Q.  I presume you're going to play World Series?
 
NICK FALDO:  World Series, yes. 
 

Q.  Nick, the last run at the Masters - follow-up question - when you got to the 13th tee and suddenly you were ahead,  how surprised were you and what was going through your mind?
 
NICK FALDO:  Well, I said now I'm leading.  Now the pressure is all on me, now it's mine to lose.  And that was what -- that was an incredible rush of pressure. 
 

Q.  How did you feel that pressure?
 
NICK FALDO:  I don't know, you just -- I think you just sense that (indicating), all the attention is just pointing at you.  So that's why I was pleased the way I finished.  I still finished 3-under for the last six holes.  I went forward, which was great.  That was the key thing to that was I got in that position and I kept going forward. 
 

Q.  Do you enjoy that feeling, that sensation?
 
NICK FALDO:  Yeah, in a perversive sort of way.  I think he would stop and look around and say this is what it's all about.  That's what you practice hard for, to put yourself in that position.  It takes a long time to learn how to enjoy it, sort of -- but that's what you could say I'm doing it for. You want to put yourself in that position just to see what you can do. 
 

Q.  When you get in that situation, do you think swing mechanics or something?
 
NICK FALDO:  Yeah, I think that's what helps me.  I still have my swing keys.  And right back from standing at the last hole at Muirfield in '87, I think that's what helped me. When the pressure is really, there it is, you can go back to --  I've been doing this the last 72 holes, rotate, set -- 
 

Q.  Well, it takes off the pressure?
 
NICK FALDO:  Oh, my God, it gets rid of everything, and I can just stay with what I've been doing for -- so I feel that is what really has worked for me. 
 

Q.  You mentioned Sunday of course winning in LA, the Hogan influence.  What do you trace that to?  When was the first time you remember wanting to seek out more information about Hogan and compare and contrast yourself a little bit with him?
 
NICK FALDO:  Benefit has been very -- he's had that wonderful elusive -- but the first time I ever watched him golf, one of those world of golf things with Snead in Houston when they said it was the most perfect round of golf. 
 

Q.  When would that have been?  1963.
 
NICK FALDO:  My friend and I -- I think he videoed it off that, so you imagine the quality was horrendous, it was like watching it through a snow storm and hail storm.  That was the first time I ever watched that, took note of, and I've always, unfortunately, never seen him hit a shot live.  And I've watched -- I've got a few videos, and what have you, where people -- actually some private videos where people have filmed him practicing. 
 

Q.  There's that new one out from The Masters from years ago. 
 
NICK FALDO:  I haven't got that one yet. 
 

Q.  How often do you pull those out and watch them?
 
NICK FALDO:  Very rarely. 
 

Q.  Is that a winter thing?
 
NICK FALDO:  Very rarely.  I wouldn't say I've got an decent library of my wins. 
 

Q.  Did you sense a sense of rapport, the same personality, essential personality in you and Hogan, kind of reserved?
 
NICK FALDO:  Yeah, he's got -- we're very reserved, but he lets little bits out; you sort of grasp on just a few words and what have you. 
 

Q.  You connected with that?
 
NICK FALDO:  Yeah, I can sort of -- I could figure where he was coming from. 
 

Q.  Speaking of attention in that spotlight that you like when you're in that position, the Tiger Woods phenomenon, is it, in a way, beneficial to a player like yourself that he's in the spotlight and you're allowed to do your own thing sort of more in the twilight or quietly, is there less pressure on you?
 
NICK FALDO:  I don't know about less pressure.  It can't change the pressure, because you go out and do your own thing when you play a golf tournament anyway.  You've got to look after yourself.  And I haven't played against him. 
 

Q.  It's become a phenomenon here.  What do you make of  it?
 
NICK FALDO:  It is.  It has.  It has made a major impact in golf.  I think they need to keep their reins on it, because the media attention is getting too much, as he found on the golf course last week.  So, I think we're probably going to have to start making some new rules, where the photographers and where everybody can go.  It's just too much commotion going on.  It's not golf.  (Laughter). 
 

Q.  Would you be jazzed up to play against him head-to-head?
 
NICK FALDO:  Jazzed up?  Bring the band? 
 

Q.  Symbols, drums.
 
NICK FALDO:  Yeah, I'll bring the harmonica. 
 
Yeah, sure, you're going to have to be, because there's going to be a lot of razzmatazz.  You're not going to be able to have a little battle for 18 holes.  It's going to be the full show, lights and action and everything.  So you're going to have to be switched on to it. 
 

Q.  Nick, do you feel some sympathy for the players playing with him, because of the circus?
 
NICK FALDO:  Yeah, you have to have -- you have to be mentally very strong, because there's a lot going on, I imagine.  You want to keep on your own game and there's nothing worse than a lot of commotion going on. 
 

Q.  Showbiz? 
 
NICK FALDO:  Golfing showbiz, yeah. 
 

Q.  Do you feel you're in show business or an athlete or not in show business?
 
NICK FALDO:  I wouldn't say show business.  But, I think at times you try to be a little bit of an entertainer. You've got to be an entertainer.  At times you've got to feel that your golf entertains the public, and times you feel like you have opportunities that come along to have a bit of feedback with them.  And you can bounce off things. 
 

Q.  But you just compared yourself to Ben Hogan or had a link with him, spiritual link with him -- connection; you feel a certain affinity for his style.  How are you going to all of a sudden become a showman?
 
NICK FALDO:  I'm not.  I'm not Ben Hogan as in Ben and his mental powers that he had.  And I'm not Ben Hogan in the golfing powers.  So I couldn't say I've modeled -- there's little similarities.  Certainly, I haven't modeled myself on him. 
 

Q.  You're a quiet guy.  How are you going to change if Tiger Woods is bringing in this entertainment factor?  I think it would be rough on a guy like you, because you can't change over night?
 
NICK FALDO:  That's what I was saying.  You have to have strong mental powers and just strong powers to carry on playing how you want to play, rather than being caught into it,  roped into doing something you don't want to.  You don't want to be a different person than you are, because you're playing with him.  You want to be exactly the same. 
 

Q.  If you're advising Greg Norman before a final round in The Masters, is there anything you might say to him?
 
NICK FALDO:  Play.  Put the left shoe on your left foot and put the right shoe on the right foot.  That would be enough.  I don't think I would be advising anybody. 
 

Q.  Talking about distractions with playing with Tiger. Last year and six months before we talked at this point you guys were bothered by papparazzi and everything.  Has that died down, you and Brenna having --
 
NICK FALDO:  It's pretty quiet. 
 

Q.  When did it start quieting down?
 
NICK FALDO:  I don't know and I couldn't care less. 
 

Q.  But you can go on with your life in peace?
 
NICK FALDO:  Yeah, well, they're being back again, for this next part of the story. 
 

Q.  That's the British press?
 
NICK FALDO:  British press, yeah.  There's only one. 
 

Q.  Next part of the story might be the wedding?
 
NICK FALDO:  No, we've got to go through the first bit before the wedding.  You have to go through the divorce first before the wedding.  That's the next -- not before, because it's not going to happen before.  So, it's divorce next and  then we will see what happens next. 
 

Q.  You guys talking about it a little bit, not to be Barbara Walters, but is there talk of a wedding down the road?
 
NICK FALDO:  Where are you coming from?  I'm not talking one word about that. 
 

Q.  I don't have a camera.  I just ask the question.
 
NICK FALDO:  No answer.  No comment.  Sorry. 
 

Q.  What do you enjoy most about fly fishing?
 
NICK FALDO:  Catching trout.  No, I had a wonderful trip.  I managed to go through New Zealand on the way to Australia and had a great time.  We went down to Queenstown in the South Island and choppered out.  We were out in the mountains. 
 

Q.  Did you fly the helicopter?
 
NICK FALDO:  No.  This guy took us in, and it was a day's walk to get back.  It was wonderful.  It was the mountains either side of you, stream coming down, fishing guides and what have you.  So, we had a good laugh.  And we fished until we dropped.  We hiked up this river and fished for like, whatever, it was eight hours of fishing, with a 15-minute lunch break.  And it was wonderful.  It was just great to be out.  I felt very privileged to be miles away from anything. There was nobody around.  It wasn't like suddenly a party of sightseers were going to come down.  You were out there. 
 

Q.  Do you only get to do one of those trips a year or are  you planning more?
 
NICK FALDO:  I'd like to do -- I fish back in England quite seriously, and hopefully I'll try and do something later in the year in Montana or somewhere.  That would be nice if I get two trips a year. 
 

Q.  Will you fish at the Sprint this year again?
 
NICK FALDO:  I might try to get some fishing before that.  Actually, I am.  I'm going to Vancouver for that Skins Game.  And that's got salmon a mile down the road.  So that's the reason why I'm there. 
 

Q.  Have you figured out bass fishing yet?
 
NICK FALDO:  You chuck your line out and you reel it in and you sit -- the great thing on the TV, they take the fish out and turn to the camera:  "Here we are at so and so river," and this poor fish is going "hello, can I go back in the water?"  They talk to the camera for two minutes, and the poor bastard is just sitting there.  "I'm going put it back in" and the fish is going - (indicating) (laughter) they finally put it back in.  The fish goes, "geez."  You can't believe it.  They stand and have a chat and this poor fishing is just taking it. Cruelty, cruelty.  No, it doesn't look too technical. 
 

Q.  Lake something has bass?
 
NICK FALDO:  I'm trying to catch it the hard way. 
 

Q.  It's all luck? 
 
NICK FALDO:  Is it?  Yeah, trout fishing is not luck, that's why it's fun. 
 
LEE PATTERSON:  Anything else?  Appreciate your time. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT