JOHNNIE WALKER WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
December 16, 1993
Nick Faldo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.   General comments on the round?
 
NICK FALDO:  I don't know.  Well, didn't play too bad. Hit a couple of bad ones and, you know, not bad, not great, you know. 
 

Q.   What about the putting, Nick, the reverse grip?
 
NICK FALDO:  We have been talking about that.  He was videoing me and we like the idea of a reverse grip; it gives me a bit more lag in everything.  It does a lot of good things for my stroke, but, you know, I thought I might go with it whenever I felt comfortable, but I never really felt comfortable, so, I didn't, simple as that. 
 

Q.   Didn't persist, but how many sort of greens did you --
 
NICK FALDO:  About 3, first 3 holes. 
 

Q.   What are the good things it does for you?
 
NICK FALDO:  Gets my shoulders level, as I said, gives my right hand-- gets a bit of lag to it, which-- it is not wooden, and it makes you follow through aggressive because you have got something to stop.  You are hitting the against the left arm; you can hit through. I think it is something to work on.  It is good to give, you know, the right feelings for a regular stroke. 
 

Q.   Is there an element of what people might be thinking in seeing the world's No. 1 putting that way about it; you are not concerned about that?
 
NICK FALDO:  No.  No.  Because I think it is actually a pretty good way to putt.  A lot of guys are using it; putting couple of Strange and Fred Couples have changed and they have done all right last couple of years. 
 

Q.   No shorts situation,; some were saying they wanted to wear shorts because it is too hot.  What do you think?
 
NICK FALDO:  I don't know.  I think if they made some guidelines, it could be done.  I think if we -- I think we got quite smart if we were in-- if they told us we could wear two colors or there had to be solid color and socks to match or whatever, I am sure they can come up with something which would be quite acceptable, you know. 
 

Q.   Would you prefer to wear shorts?
 
NICK FALDO:  I think I will be too sexy; I will have too much trouble.  I am too sexy in my shorts, so -- 
 

Q.   Thank you.


End of FastScripts....
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT