JOHNNIE WALKER WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
December 15, 1993
Nick Faldo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.   Defending champion; your feelings?
 
NICK FALDO:  I don't know. 
 

Q.   Would you reflect on your year?
 
NICK FALDO:  I don't know.  Nothing excited to talk about. 
 

Q.   How are the old wrists?
 
NICK FALDO:  Not as good as I like, but as good as Sun City which was a nice -- I guess I had so much treatment for a couple of weeks before, but a little -- yeah, a bit few sore bits still, so I have to be careful how much I do this week. 
 

Q.   You worked really hard; spent hours here on Monday?
 
NICK FALDO:  Well, yeah, last two days have been good. 
 

Q.   How many hours have you been putting in here practicing?
 
NICK FALDO:  Usual, full day, you know, been down here-- 
 

Q.   Saturday?
 
NICK FALDO:  Monday I was out here 8:30.  I usually sort of practice; then play; then go back; have a snooze; come back and have more practice, that sort of thing. That is what the daily routine has been. 
 

Q.   Did you attempt ever not to play?
 
NICK FALDO:  No.  Never.  Subject to rumors, no.  I was always coming here. 
 

Q.   Looking back on your year, what have you been able to draw out, I mean, anything positive?
 
NICK FALDO:  Well, always got to look at, you know, I guess basically it has been - obviously been disappointing.  I haven't won the Majors; got close to Majors, but you have to ask why, and maybe it was faults in my technique.  We are going to try and work hard this winter to put them right.  I think that it is as simple as that.  So, you know, working on, you know, -- obviously got to get a nice rest now.  And I have already been talking about my schedule with David, and I will get a good run up to Augusta, so I will be ready for the next Augusta.  That is the game plan. 
 

Q.   How many weeks rest are you going to have after this?
 
NICK FALDO:  Well, I only play-- I play the Johnnie Walker Asian event; then I will then be in Florida.  I will play Doral, start at Doral, so I get four tournaments before Augusta and then Florida.  That will be good; plus practice. 
 

Q.   Do you really feel -- I mean, you are playing so well in the last two Majors?
 
NICK FALDO:  Yeah, it is '92 when I was playing well, I get out on a round; I would have -- at least a dozen times I will be inside 15 feet when I was playing really well, at my best.  Then obviously when you are not playing as well, you have got numbers reduced, you know, as much as half.  It is a different, you know, if you are trying to shoot low scores -- my wedge shot hasn't been as good this year.  I haven't been -- wedge shots are short 9, so you got to be around the hole all the time.  You got to be making birdies.  I haven't been doing that.  So I think those are the areas, really. 
 

Q.   Is it physical conditioning involved in what you are going to be doing?
 
NICK FALDO:  Yeah, I have got a whole program worked out now.  I met with the guy who started me on my exercises; showed me what exercises I have to do.  I am going to start those, I guess, right after Christmas, really.  
 

Q.   What specifically are they?
 
NICK FALDO:  Oh, secrets.  Secrets.  Yeah. 
 

Q.   What general areas?
 
NICK FALDO:  Everything.  Head to toe. 
 

Q.   The point about those stories was that you were in terrific condition, you had Olympic legs and all the rest of it.  Why do you keep on fiddling around --
 
NICK FALDO:  I am not fiddling around.  I have been striving for improvement, in every way.  There is still-- he told you the glowing reports, but we also know where the weaknesses were.  You only write about the good stuff.  I know where the weaknesses are.  I am going to work on the weaknesses, build those up. 
 

Q.   How many hours a day will that be?
 
NICK FALDO:  Just be normal.  I guess if I do it properly -- well, it will be by the time I do everything they want me to do, it will be 9 to 12, I guess, I will be down, that sort of thing. 
 

Q.   Working on your own?
 
NICK FALDO:  On my own.  He has given me -- I will see how I go.  I will keep checking with him; keep updating how it is all going.  I definitely think it's a way to improve, you know, your golf performance.  Develop certain areas which will help my golf swing by a lot, I am sure. 
 

Q.   Will you be doing this at home or at a gym?
 
NICK FALDO:  I have got a room at home.  I thought I was  -- I probably will bring some stuff at home.  You see, you go to a gym; utilize all the machinery in the gym, so I haven't gotten a room that big, so I might as well use their facilities and then, you know, then maybe have some stuff at home. 
 

Q.   What are the weaknesses?
 
NICK FALDO:  I am not telling you.  It's secret areas. 
 

Q.   Are you going to keep weight on or will you take it off?
 
NICK FALDO:  I will be leaner and meaner. 
 

Q.   Were you surprised at how the strengths were of the physical fitness test?
 
NICK FALDO:  Yes, some of it.  I mean, because I haven't specifically got out and done, you know, over the top on anything.  I haven't done any real excessive gym work, that is all, for any areas.  So I was surprised my legs were that strong, but you really need stamina, a lot of stamina; especially in this heat from walking. 
 

Q.   What about this week specifically?
 
NICK FALDO:  Subject to -- I haven't seen what it looks like out there yet.  The course is a little different than last year, the course -- the grass is a bit coarser on the greens, but generally the same, you know, normally, you know, I guess we will be able to play if a breeze kicks up.  Hasn't kicked up the last few days. 
 

Q.   How do you feel?
 
NICK FALDO:  I am feeling pretty good.  I have been working on my game; was not bad in Sun City.  Working on a bit with David, so I feel pretty good. 
 

Q.   Just explain the barefoot practice you did on Monday.
 
NICK FALDO:  Forgot my shoes. 
 

Q.   What were you trying to work on then?
 
NICK FALDO:  Just good balance.  If I force my leg action, then when you-- the old exercise we used to do before was stand in a bunker, without digging your feet in.  If you go, you will slip.  Try and stay nice and high and balanced and at the Ryder Cup he said, best thing would be to hit them without your shoes on.  I took them straight off then.  It is a lot nicer here because it is warm.  You can feel-- get more of a sense of what your feet are doing.  Twinkle toes on my feet. 
 

Q.   You think they would make you play in the tournament with bare feet?
 
NICK FALDO:  I am sure. 
 

Q.   What about your foot sponsors?
 
NICK FALDO:  Yeah, they won't be too happy. 
 

Q.   Have you a shoe contract?
 
NICK FALDO:  Mizuno from January 1. 
 

Q.   Disappointed that people like Norman and Price aren't here?
 
NICK FALDO:  Yeah. I am surprised.  Price is playing really well.  This is his off time, I guess, mainly because America starts early.  They always start fairly early in January.  Got to have some break.  He wants to break now. 
 

Q.   Would you like to see this brought back up two, three weeks nearer to the end of the two Tours rather than having this sort of--
 
NICK FALDO:  Yeah, it is close to Christmas, the families can't come out.  Jill is not out mainly because it is Christmas. 
 

Q.   Kids are off from school now?
 
NICK FALDO:  Not quite.  Kids still are 'till next week or whatever. 
 

Q.   At the end of say, the start of the month or very end of November?
 
NICK FALDO:  Yeah, but everybody is just in the position of the end of the season, that is the problem.  You got so many long halls after that season finishes.  You go to Japan or South Africa or Australia, that is the problem. 
 

Q.   Three weeks earlier would be a --
 
NICK FALDO:  Probably would. 
 

Q.  -- concept of a world tour --


Q.   Ever mark how many miles you have traveled this year?
 
NICK FALDO:  No. 
 

End of FastScripts....
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT