AUGUSTA NATIONAL WOMEN'S AMATEUR
April 5, 2019
Jaravee Boonchant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JARAVEE BOONCHANT: Experiencing the golf course, it looks really nice, but really challenging, especially for the greens.  Much more slopey than the Champions Retreat we just played.  Totally different golf course.  I'm really excited for tomorrow.  It's going to be fun.
Q. Did you find the fairways to be faster?
JARAVEE BOONCHANT: No, I didn't see my ball rolls at all.  Just like land and stop there.  But yeah, I think this is fun, yes.
Q. The elevation change?
JARAVEE BOONCHANT: Yeah.
Q. Your caddie, you've gotten used to a little bit from the Champions Retreat, and he caddied here.  Did you depends on him a lot today?
JARAVEE BOONCHANT: Yeah, I depend on him a lot, especially on the green, like where to aim and how much I need to putt.  It really helps because like some of the green, it looks like it breaks from right-to-left but it's actually left-to-right.  The green is really tricky.  Having a caddie who caddied here all the time, this really helps.
Q. Was it cool having Erica, somebody to be playing with next year, all that kind of stuff, a teammate?
JARAVEE BOONCHANT: I have actually never played with Erica before, so this is my first time.  It's really good fun to get to see her game and get to know her more, and yeah, I'm really excited for next semester.
Q. Is it everything you thought it would be coming here and playing?  Has it been as nice as you thought it would be as it is different as it is challenging?
JARAVEE BOONCHANT: It is definitely more challenging.  Like one of the holes was pretty flat and short because of the guys are hitting, but being out here, I see that it's like a lot of elevations out there, and the ball doesn't roll at all.  So it's definitely harder than what I expected.
Q. Do you feel pretty good about playing tomorrow?  Are you looking forward to it?
JARAVEE BOONCHANT: Yeah, I'm really looking forward for tomorrow.  It's going to be fun.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT