NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SENATORS v SABRES
May 12, 2007
Joe Corvo
Ray Emery
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Joe, could you describe that shot?  It looked to us like it bounced, it fluttered, was a knuckle ball. 
 JOE CORVO:  Spezza drew it right back, and it was bouncing, and I just made an effort to cut my stick just so it didn't fly on me, fly high on me, and just put it at the net. 

 Q.  Joe, how big is that goal in your life, and what were your thoughts when you saw it bounce? 
 JOE CORVO:  It's obviously the biggest of my life.  It was just total elation, I guess, when it went in.  Obviously just a great moment, something I'll always remember. 

 Q.  Joe, what does it mean to get the first two games here in Buffalo for your team? 
 JOE CORVO:  It's huge.  I think teams have had trouble coming in our building this year and winning, and we feel like we played really well there.  And just getting two here, it's really huge. 

 Q.  Joe, the Rangers never really emotionally recovered when Drury scored the late goal.  How did you guys collect yourself after that goal? 
 JOE CORVO:  I think the core group of the team came in after that goal and said we have to refocus.  If we keep thinking about that goal, then only bad things were going to happen. 

 Q.  Question for Ray.  They're up 2-0.  Do you guys just kept your composure?  Seemed like it got easier, somehow you guys refocused and started playing your game defensively. 
 RAY EMERY:  Yeah.  I think that's the major difference in our team right now, even though we were down 2-0 and they really kind of jumped on us at the start, you know, there's no panic.  We're mentally tough enough to play that defensive game until we get back in the game.  That's one of the strengths of this team and the reason that maybe we can come back from that, that late goal and 2-0 deficit early is how mentally tough we are. 

 Q.  Ray or Joe, how do you think that crowd is going to be like for Monday night coming back with two wins from Buffalo in? 
 JOE CORVO:  I don't know how to describe it.  It will be fun. 

 Q.  Ray, maybe this is the last time we have to ask about the Senators never being 2-0 and just the resiliency that this team has shown and how difficult it is to erase whatever memories of that playoff past? 
 RAY EMERY:  Yeah.  You know, we've kind of overcame some of those challenges, some of the stigmas that everyone was talking about, and it's a great feeling, you know, that's maybe why we're able to come back from that 2-0 deficit is because there's so much motivation to prove everyone wrong.  It's not Game 2.  It's just kind of one of those things this year where the other team obviously doesn't want to go down two games. 
 So it's a tough game to win, and it just shows how much of a dedicated group of guys we have in here that we put forth that effort today to erase those little things that people say about us. 

 Q.  Ray, how long does that Briere goal stay with you?  I know how Joe was talking about how you have to forget about it.  Can you just forget about it? 
 RAY EMERY:  I can forget about it very quick.  It's not like that I can do much about it.  Just refocus.  We came in the room after the third and said this is a great position.  We've got a chance to score and go up two games in the other team's building. 

 Q.  Can you explain?  Maybe "refocus" is kind of a vague word.  Can you explain maybe to people who have never been in that situation to a reader or a fan how do you do it?  What types of things can you do mentally to get over it? 
 RAY EMERY:  Well, you focus - you know, there's five seconds left.  You're pumped.  You're going to go up two games and then one goes off the shin pad back door to the guy.  It's kind of rattling you upstairs there, so you just got to kind of put it out of your mind and, you know, go back to the things that are the reason that you play consistent hockey, just, you know, stick to the game-plan type of deal. 

 Q.  Ray, obviously the Sabres wanted to crowd you tonight.  Seemed like that a number of occasions early on.  What was said between you and the referees?  How do you plead your case?  Because, that's part of their game plan tonight? 
 RAY EMERY:  I was trying to be as nice as I could, but, you know, it's just frustrating.  Got to kind of, like you said, plead your case the right way.  I Just thought that I would get position and they would slowly back into me.  So when the shot got there, I got a guy bumping me a little bit but off balance and makes it really difficult for me to make a save. 
 I was talking to both the referees about it, just tell them to watch out for it. 

 Q.  Ray, talk about removing stigmas.  You got a win in overtime finally especially after they beat you three times last year? 
 RAY EMERY:  Yeah.  It's great.  I don't care how we win.  If we 10-0 or triple OT.  But it's good to get that behind you and overcome some of those little situations just in case it comes up again in the future.  You know, you kind have that under your belt that you know you're capable of doing it. 

 Q.  Joe, do you think there's any chance that you'll sleep well tonight? 
 JOE CORVO:  I was just trying to catch the highlight on TSN there.  I missed it.  I said don't worry, I'll probably catch it at 5:00 am when I'm still awake. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT