SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE FOOTBALL CHAMPIONSHIP GAME: FLORIDA VS ALABAMA
December 14, 2020
Ventrell Miller
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  THE MODERATOR:   We will continue with Florida's Ventrell Miller.
 Ventrell, take a moment to comment on the team as you enter the game against Alabama.
 VENTRELL MILLER:   I just want to thank God for this opportunity to be here.  A common goal we had as a team off-season was to come out and win the East, then come and compete in the championship, the SEC championship.  Ready to check this goal off up come up with a win.
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Ventrell.
 Q. Obviously Alabama has weapons all over the field.  What will be your focus from the linebacker's corps on Saturday?  What kind of challenges do they present there?
 VENTRELL MILLER:   Each and every week the challenge is almost the same.  Go out and stop the run, make plays on the ball, execute as a defense doing our job, focusing on what we have to do, getting off the field on third down.
 Q. Offenses across the SEC, have you faced one that looks similar to what Alabama is doing?  Is this a whole different animal?
 VENTRELL MILLER:   I guess we going to have to see.  Going to see on Saturday.
 Q. You're playing good football these last couple games.  Have you had a stretch like this?  You got 28 tackles in two games.  Have you ever been that productive on a football field before?
 VENTRELL MILLER:   That's just instinct, trying to fly around to the ball, hustling to the ball.  That's what I believe happens.  You have to make plays.  I just try to hustle to the ball, so...
 Q. The defense has been criticized a lot, been some struggles, and some really good play in there, too.  Do you feel like you're putting this unit on your shoulders, trying to set the tone, inspire it?
 VENTRELL MILLER:   Yeah, definitely.  I always try to go out there and be a play-maker, bring the energy.  It fires your teammates.  Just going out there competing, trying to make plays, it's always a great feeling.
 Q. You guys are huge underdogs.  Alabama is averaging 50 points a game over its last nine.  Do you feel like you can match up with them?  Can you use this huge underdog mentality as motivation?
 VENTRELL MILLER:   Yeah, definitely.  Being underdog just make you go harder.  That's how I feel.  You'll be surprised on Saturday what happens I would say.
 Q. Do you think maybe you guys being at full speed defensively will make a difference in terms of health because you're getting some guys back?
 VENTRELL MILLER:   Definitely.  Always having depth where you can come out and have your starters come off the field, still have depth, execute the same way.  That solves the problems.
 Q. I have to ask you about DeVonta Smith.  You have some incredible play-makers, but he's right there.  What do you see with him?
 VENTRELL MILLER:   Definitely explosive player, fast I would say.  I guess we just focus on what we got to do this week, the game plan, executing that.
 Q. What do you think happened the other night?  You were on a six-game winning streak, winning by a margin of three touchdowns a game.  What would you put your finger on that happened the other day against LSU?
 VENTRELL MILLER:   I just say coming out fast, playing as a team, always having each other's back when things not going so good.  Still being motivated to go out and win each and every week.
 Q. I'm saying what happened the other night.  Do you feel like that didn't happen?  You weren't ready mentally?  What do you think?
 VENTRELL MILLER:   I'm not too sure.  A couple mistakes made on both sides of the ball.  Like I said, we're on to the next week.  Ain't really worried about that too much.
 Q. Y'all had a tough loss on Saturday.  How do you expect this team to react in practice this week?
 VENTRELL MILLER:   I think the energy is high.  Going to come out here, we still got the SEC championship on the line.  This is a great opportunity to go out and show the world how talented we are, how good of a team we are.
 Q. Do you personally do something in practice to hype your guys up, make sure everybody is ready to go?  It certainly took some air out of things around Gainesville.
 VENTRELL MILLER:   Most definitely.  I feel like I always try to spark things up, trying to talk to get guys going and stuff like that, so...
 Q. Some of your teammates already said earlier that all you can really do is lift Marco Wilson up after that play.  What has the reaction been like?  What did you see on that play?
 VENTRELL MILLER:   Yeah, based off what everybody else has said, it was a mistake.  He was excited.  Try to encourage him to come out and compete next week because even a bigger game this week ahead of us.  Just focusing on this week, being prepared this week to go out and win.
 Q. You're used to facing good running backs every single week.  What challenge does this Alabama team present in the back field, in particular with Najee Harris?
 VENTRELL MILLER:   It's another great challenge to go out and stop the run this week against a back like that, much respect.  Like I say, we're going to leave it out on the field on Saturday.
 Q. How important is it going to be to get guys like Jeremiah Moon, Shawn Davis, and Ty'Ron Hopper back to this defense?
 VENTRELL MILLER:   Like I say, it creates depth.  When guys go down, the younger guys got to step up.  When you get that depth back, it will be good.  Guys get hurt, guys get a break, stuff like that.  It always helps the defense out.
 Q. Going into this week obviously this game and getting through this week is a goal your team has had all season long.  Is that kind of easier to put last week behind you?  What will be the message to your teammates this week with maybe everybody counting y'all out, not thinking you have a chance because you just lost a game?
 VENTRELL MILLER:   Just go out and being remembered for something.  I think our team is getting prepared this week to go out and play a great game, getting prepared all week, focusing on little things, executing the right way, going out and trying to win the game and put a number on the wall.
 Q. How do you feel you will handle the underdog role, people counting y'all out?  I know you don't care about that stuff.  Will it put a chip on your shoulder, give you extra motivation going into the game?
 VENTRELL MILLER:   Most definitely gives you a chip on your shoulder when everybody says you can't do it.  It's a challenge to go out and prove somebody wrong.  I'm always motivated by that.  I feel like the team is on the same page.
 THE MODERATOR:   That's all the questions we have for you.  Thank you.
 VENTRELL MILLER:   Thank you.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT