NBA ALL-STAR 2019
February 16, 2019
Blake Griffin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Blake, you haven't been a part of the All-Star Weekend for a couple of years.  How does it feel to finally see your name up here again?  
BLAKE GRIFFIN: It's great to be back.  This weekend is a lot of fun.  It's great to be around -- these are the best players in the world.  To be able to be a part of that again is a lot of fun.  This is for the fans, to come out and put on a show for them.   
 Q.  Speaking of show, it looks like Dwane Casey has put you back in your comfort zone, with the ball in your hands and show your stuff is still there?  
BLAKE GRIFFIN: Coach Casey has been great.  My teammates have been great.  It's been a good year.  We've got to figure out a way to get more wins, but we're on the right path.   
 Q.  Scoring has been crazy the past couple of years here.  Can we see maybe 200 points on Sunday?  
BLAKE GRIFFIN: Yes.  There will be zero defense.  I believe that.   
 Q.  How long it take you to grow that thing [beard]?  
BLAKE GRIFFIN: The last time I shaved was before Media Day [start of season].   
 Q.  On the "best player in the world" conversation:  
BLAKE GRIFFIN: Yeah, I think the conversation's closer.  I mean, LeBron's still has held that down for a long, long time, but you see Giannis, you see James [Harden], like you said, KD, Steph, all these guys are -- it's a lot of fun because it feels like the competition is like that.  Everybody is pushing each other to become better.   
 Q.  One thing about you that you wish people knew that they don't?  
BLAKE GRIFFIN: One thing about me that I wished people knew?  I love being asked the question, "What's one thing about you that people don't know?"  That's one of my favorite things.  People don't know that.   
 Q.  On the evolution of his game:  
BLAKE GRIFFIN: To be honest, it's a mix.  Over the past couple years, two, three years, I've really tried to expand my game to the three-point line, and that's out of necessity.  I mean, that's just the way the game is going today.  I like being able to do both.  It depends on my matchup.  It depends on the night I'm having.  Sometimes your shot's not falling and you want to post up a little bit more and get some easy baskets.   
 Q.  On Giannis Antetokounmpo:  
BLAKE GRIFFIN: I don't know how old he is, but his ceiling is still very, very high.  Like I said, there's a lot of guys that are like -- like A.D. [Anthony Davis]  There's guys you almost don't even mention when you talk about the best players in the world that you almost forget about.  Kawhi -- like the list goes on about guys that could the next season have a crazy season, and they seem like they're the best player in the world.  It's an exciting time, like I said.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT