NBA PLAYOFFS ROUND ONE: SPURS v CLIPPERS
April 22, 2015
Blake Griffin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.   You had a great game statistically, but what's on your mind right now? 
BLAKE GRIFFIN:   You know, that game is pretty much 100 percent on me.   I got the ball and up two, needed to take care of it, needed to get a good shot or try to get fouled and turned it over, so that game is on me.   That's what's on my mind. 

Q.   Did that play last longer?   It just seemed like obviously you couldn't believe what had happened.   Did it take a while for you to kind of get past that play? 
BLAKE GRIFFIN:   Yeah, I mean, it's going to‑‑ that one is going to hurt, but in the course of the game we had to move on.   Still had a chance there.   I liked the way we fought, down 10, came back, got in the game, got up.   I've just got to take care of the ball.

Q.   A lot is made of the Spurs' lengthy playoff history and the experiences they can draw upon.   Do you feel at this stage of your career and the time with this unit at the Clippers that you guys have your own experiences you can draw on and try and come back from this one?
BLAKE GRIFFIN:   Yeah, I mean, we've been in a good amount of situations.   We've been down.   Last year, first round we lost the first game at home, so I mean, there's a lot of basketball left to be played.   It's not over.   We've just got to be better and go in their place and take one.

Q.   You guys collectively after Game 1 talked a lot about not getting too high, too low off of those.   Same kind of message tonight, but how difficult is it to carry that through after a game like this?
BLAKE GRIFFIN:   It's difficult, but at the same time sometimes things like this kind of refocus how you go about the next couple days to prepare.   You know, we said during practice yesterday that when you lose that first game, that's all you think about, and so they came out like that.   They came out like that's all they thought about, like they were ready to play, and I expect us to respond in the same manner. 

Q.   On that note, they came out and made some adjustments.   What adjustments did you notice from them and then what adjustments are you guys going to try to make in Game 3 to counter?
BLAKE GRIFFIN:   They played with more force.   Offensively they attacked pick‑and‑rolls, they did what they wanted to do.   They got to their spots and things like that.   But as far as our adjustments, I mean, it's‑‑ that's between us. 

Q.   What do you tell DeAndre on a night like this where he had a lot of points, rebounds, blocks, but just his performance at the free‑throw line? 
BLAKE GRIFFIN:   I mean, we believe in him.   He's going to go to the free‑throw line and he hit some big ones when it counted.   But his measure, his worth goes well beyond the free‑throw line, whatever you want to look at.   His impact on the game is huge.   You can't worry about something like that. 

Q.   How would you describe what you think you're going to see in that building there in the next game, and your overall biggest challenge, what you need to take care of? 
BLAKE GRIFFIN:   It's going to be a great environment.   It's going to be loud.   They have a great crowd, but that's exciting for us.   I think we respond to that well.   We like to play on the road and we need to embrace that.   And overall we just need to clean up some things defensively, you know, guarding without fouling.   At the half we put them on the line too many times, we hadn't gotten to the line enough.   We've got to be aggressive.   We've got to change some things around.   But it's about the spirit we played with, and I expect us to come out with the right spirit on Friday night. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT