NBA PLAYOFFS ROUND TWO: CLIPPERS v THUNDER
May 15, 2014
Blake Griffin
Chris Paul
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.   Doc was in here talking about how emotional you were.   Now that it's over, what are you feeling and thinking? 
BLAKE GRIFFIN:   Disappointed.   I feel like it could have been a very different series, you know, with just a couple small things. 
But, you know, proud of how guys handled themselves throughout this season and also the playoffs.   Faced a lot of clutter.   I thought we handled it well. 
CHRIS PAUL:   Yeah, it's tough.   It's tough.   You don't get a chance to be on teams like this that often, you know.   Oklahoma City absolutely deserves it. 
We had a really, really good team, a great team.   Before the game Doc talked about it.   I told somebody at halftime, it's crazy, you play all season long, and the last few games we really started to figure out who our team was and how to play.   And it's crazy that it's over. 
Man, we really do have a great team, collective group of players, not just me and Blake, me, Blake and D.J.     It's tough to realize that it's over again. 

Q.   Chris, going into next season, does it put any more pressure on you to get out of the second round in your preparation off‑season? 
CHRIS PAUL:   I'm going to prepare every off‑season like I always do.   This ain't tennis.   It ain't just me.   We don't play one‑on‑one. 
It's not just to get out of the second round, it's to win a championship.   I don't know anybody in our league that plays for the finals, for the Western Conference Finals.   That's not enough. 

Q.   Back‑to‑back games, you had double‑digit leads.   Did you see any similarities in those games as far as execution?
CHRIS PAUL:   We definitely got to execute better.   Our defense needed to be better. 
But that's a good team over there.   KD and Russ are tough enough to guard as it is.   When they start living on the free‑throw line... 
I had a big part to do with us losing Game5, you know.   Tonight and last game, those two shot more free throws than our whole team.   It gets tough when they're putting them on the line every time. 

Q.   Doc indicated that you seemed spent in the second half.   It seemed like Oklahoma City came out just the opposite to begin the second.   Was that the case?   Was it a matter of being drained through all this mess? 
BLAKE GRIFFIN:   I don't know.   I mean, I thought we just got stagnant.   They came out and executed.   I don't know if it was energy, I don't know.   We just didn't execute.   We just kind of got away from what made us successful. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT