NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 14, 2014
Blake Griffin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You've been in the All‑Star Games before.   You've been in some uncomfortable situations where you're sharing the locker room with guys you don't really like, that are rivals.   Can you talk about that?  
BLAKE GRIFFIN:   Yeah, I mean, there's certain guys that you're closer with than other guys, but I wouldn't really call them uncomfortable situations, it's just part of it.   You get dressed, you go through practice and not try to high five them too much.  
   
 Q.   Have you ever seen any contention between rival teams?  
BLAKE GRIFFIN:   No, this is only my fourth game.   But I haven't seen anything ‑‑ nothing too bad.   
   
 Q.   Looking at Damian Lillard and everything he's going through, what's your advice to him?  
BLAKE GRIFFIN:   Get your rest when you can.   We were talking about that, actually.   He's going to be incredibly busy.   
So it's not so much during the weekend, because when your adrenaline is going to carry through all these events and everything, it's that week after when you got to play back to back, you got to play three and four nights, whatever it is.   
So make sure you pace yourself and get your rest.   That's important.  
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
BLAKE GRIFFIN:   I've watched him a lot, since his rookie year.   He's a fun player to watch.   Obviously him having the basketball background, it sparks my interest.   It's cool to see a guy play college basketball and then make that transition over to the pros.   
And then in my opinion, obviously, he's certainly one of the best players in the league.   So, yeah, he's fun to watch.  
   
 Q.   And do you think a guy like him in the NBA with his background could compete?  
BLAKE GRIFFIN:   If anybody could do it, I'm sure it would be a guy like that.   Obviously it's tough to not play basketball in college and then come into the NBA, so with that experience, you know, I think that he can definitely handle it.  
   
 Q.   What about his dunking skills?  
BLAKE GRIFFIN:He gets up higher than most guys I see, so...  
   
 Q.   What are your memories of the Vince Carter dunk contest in 2010?  
BLAKE GRIFFIN:   To me that's the best dunk contest I've ever seen.   Obviously I haven't seen all the ones before I was born, but that was like‑‑ that still to this very day I remember that, like every single dunk.   I remember everything about it.   He just like captured the whole building.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT