NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 15, 2013
Blake Griffin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  BLAKE GRIFFIN:   I didn't play basketball to be able to do commercials. 

Q.   Kevin Garnett said that. What do you think of James Harden's beard?
BLAKE GRIFFIN:   It's very, very full.   Very, very impressive.   Very intimidating.   I haven't seen a beard quite like it in basketball for an while.   I wish I could do that. 

Q.   How long would it take you?
BLAKE GRIFFIN:   To get one like that?   I've been working on mine for like 23 years now, so it can take a while. 

Q.   Kevin Garnett has said this would be his last All‑Star Game.   Talk about the legacy that he's left. 
BLAKE GRIFFIN:   He's been unbelievable for a long, long time.   The power forward position, there's not many like him and accomplished what he's accomplished.   He's definitely left his mark with his intensity.   Everyone knows his skill and how good a basketball player he is, but the way he approaches the game and his professionalism is second to none. 

Q.   What's the biggest challenge bouncing back from an injury?
BLAKE GRIFFIN:   For the player the monotony of going through the surgery and then doing the rehab, because these guys are going to have to do exercises every single day over and over and over.   And it guess a little monotonous at times.   But it's one of those things that you have to keep going, and have to keep promising yourself that you're going to come out on the other side.

Q.   Derrick Rose, what would your advice be to him?
BLAKE GRIFFIN:   Yeah, just honestly listen to your body.   No one knows their body better than the guys, themselves.   So if he's unsure, I would definitely say listen to your body and don't force it.   Because he still has a lot of good years in basketball in him.   And you don't want to risk it for coming back for ten games or whatever it might be. 

Q.   Who are you looking forward to playing with in the All‑Star Game?
BLAKE GRIFFIN:   Everybody.   Really.   Honestly.   These are some of the best players in the NBA.   I just enjoy being around this level of talent.   Trying to see how they work and what makes them special. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT