NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 18, 2011
Blake Griffin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   BLAKE GRIFFIN: Everybody told me kind of what to expect, but you can't really do anything to prepare for it until you're actually here. It's crazy but it's cool.

 Q. What's the most exciting thing that you're looking forward to? 
 BLAKE GRIFFIN: The rookie game is going to be cool and the slam dunk, also, and the big game on Sunday, I guess that's like the big stage. So it's something I've been watching since I was, I don't know how old. 

 Q. What does it mean to be selected for all three games and why did you actually decide to participate in all of them?
 BLAKE GRIFFIN: Originally, I had agreed to do the slam dunk, and then they said I made the rookie game, and that was cool. And then fortunately I was able to make the big game. So, why not? It's a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity, so take advantage of it. 
 I don't know how much I'll play tonight, but we'll see. 

 Q. Is there someone in particular that you would like to have on your team that is perhaps not on your team this time around?
 BLAKE GRIFFIN: For which game? 

 Q. For the All-Star Game. 
 BLAKE GRIFFIN: Yeah, I think there's plenty of guys that definitely deserve to be on the team. A guy like Monta Ellis, all of those guys, there's so many guys that deserve to be here. In the back of my mind, you feel guilty somewhat that you made it and they didn't just because everybody is doing the same thing and trying to get to the same place and they all deserve it. 

 Q. Do you have any dunks planned that nobody has ever seen before? 
 BLAKE GRIFFIN: Yeah, I'm going to stick with that one and I have a couple other ones that maybe somebody has seen before but hopefully this event be done. 

 Q. Do you have any props or players you'll be utilizing?
 BLAKE GRIFFIN: I'm using Baron Davis. We got creative with this one, so you'll have to wait and see. It all came together pretty nicely. He was big and gave me some good ideas. 

 Q. Why did you pick childhood obesity to give money to Dunks For Dollars?
 BLAKE GRIFFIN: To me fitness is big. It was part of my major in college and I've seen a huge growth in the childhood obesity and it's become a problem. And Michelle Obama is a big advocate of that.
 That's all my brother and I did, we were always outside playing, some kind of game, whatever it was. We would make up games. I just think it's important to be active as a child. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT