NBA DRAFT
June 25, 2009
Blake Griffin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Now that we've got this NBA business aside, two quick business questions. Have you signed an apparel endorsement deal, and choosing an agent, was that like Jerry Maguire or how did that work?
 BLAKE GRIFFIN: I have not signed an apparel deal yet. We are working on that and should be done sometime soon. 
 When I chose my agent, I kind of had a relationship from the beginning. A family friend kind of referred me, got to know them pretty well and that's how I did that. 

 Q. You were selected by the L.A. Clippers, a very tough team with a lot of big guys. How do you see yourself fitting into the team?
 BLAKE GRIFFIN: Hopefully I can bring something they don't have. I know they have a lot of great players but at the same time I'm excited about the opportunity and hopefully I can bring something to the table that they don't have or maybe they need. 

 Q. Is it intimidating going to the town where you're going to? The Lakers are obviously the premiere team in the market right now; is it a relief being able to sit in the background and maybe not have all of the focus on you?
 BLAKE GRIFFIN: It is. You can kind of -- when nobody expects you to do something, you have time to work and you have time to build. Hopefully that's what we'll do, and hopefully over the next year or two years, whatever it is, make playoff pushes and become a team that is regularly in the postseason. 

 Q. Reaction ongoing to the Clippers? 
 BLAKE GRIFFIN: A little bit. But at the same time, I didn't want to really think about it until it was actually done. I didn't let myself -- I'm happy to be there and I'm excited about the opportunity and looking forward to it. 

 Q. Can you take us through the moment when they called your name and what it was like with everybody leaning over and the lights flashing? 
 BLAKE GRIFFIN: It was crazy. I mean, when he came out, I felt my heart start to beat real fast. Going up there, it was a little overwhelming, everybody is yelling, everybody is cheering and stuff, and it was great. I'm just glad they didn't boo me. 

 Q. I wanted to ask you, how eager were you knowing that everyone knew you were going to be the first pick overall in the Draft; how eager were you to get started as a pro?
 BLAKE GRIFFIN: Very eager. This past couple of weeks I've been running around all over the place doing a lot of different things. I really just want to get down to business and start working, because that's what I believe in and that's what I'm about. 

 Q. Blake, now that you're the No. 1 overall pick, how much of your success can you attribute to playing with Taylor in college? 
 BLAKE GRIFFIN: A lot. He's prepared me for a lot, and being able to see him go through some situations that I went through, in high school and even when I first got to college and all that, it helped me how to handle it. He pushed me in the right ways and he always knew to tell me what I needed to hear, not what I wanted to hear. 

 Q. Summer plans, conditioning, personal, Summer League, what are you going to do for the next few months?
 BLAKE GRIFFIN: I'm going be to be working out as hard as I can. You know, Summer League, I'll be there, and I'm also going to the USA trials at the end of July in Vegas. 
 After that, I'm not really sure. 

 Q. Have you had a chance to speak to any players so far?
 BLAKE GRIFFIN: Baron Davis was in the facility when I was there for my workout and I talked to him a little bit. DeAndre Jordan and Eric Gordon were both in my high school class and I already know them. I talk to DeAndre a lot.

 Q. Is it tough to change a culture as a rookie; 30 years of losing in an organization, is it going to take time?
 BLAKE GRIFFIN: It's definitely going to take time and it's not all about me. I feel like they have a great group of players that can do it, and I'm happy to be a part of that. I'm looking forward to it. I know what's happened in the past, everybody keeps telling me that, but you know, I'm not going to say, okay, we haven't had that many winning seasons, why don't we give up now. 

 Q. Have you spoken to Donald Sterling?
 BLAKE GRIFFIN: No, I haven't talked to him at all. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT