NBA PLAYOFFS ROUND ONE: JAZZ vs CLIPPERS
April 15, 2017
Blake Griffin
Chris Paul
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Jazz - 97, Clippers - 95   
 Q.  Chris, you guys had worked obviously very hard to get the home-court advantage.  Even though you lose on a last-second shot, what's your takeaway from all of this, how it transpired, the way you guys played, them not having Rudy Gobert?  
CHRIS PAUL: We've got to be better.  You know, they played harder.  They were more physical, and I mean, what does it say, the series don't start until somebody lose at home, so I guess that started it.   
 Q.  Is it in any way obviously disappointing to lose the first one at home --  
CHRIS PAUL: It ain't great, obviously.  In a seven-game series they took home-court advantage.  It sucks that we lost, and to tell you the truth, we've sucked pretty bad here at home in the Playoffs anyway; know what I mean?  We lost, I think, most of the series, the home games.  Now we've got to see what we're made of.   
 Q.  Although it's a loss, are there any positives you guys can take away from tonight's game?  
CHRIS PAUL: Nope.  No, we lost.   
 Q.  What were you thinking when you saw Gobert go down and had to be helped off the court?  
CHRIS PAUL: I mean, to be completely honest with you, I mean, hopefully he's okay.  I don't know, but me and Blake looked at each other and was like, the hell with it.  We've got to play.  We've got to worry about us; know what I mean?  I hope he's okay and stuff like that, but we've got to worry about our team.  We've been in that situation.   
 Q.  Chris, when you're down two and you've got a great shot at the basket, you don't worry about the clock, you just go get those points as quickly as possible and trust your defense?  
CHRIS PAUL: No question.  Think about it, if you miss, you've got to get a chance to foul.  Yeah, don't hold it for the last shot.   
 Q.  What are some things you guys need to work on in order to get the win next game?  
CHRIS PAUL: I think our defense has to be better.  And we've got to cut down on our turnovers.  I think that was something that was uncharacteristic of us.  We had a lot of turnovers and they turned them into points.  But the other thing is we've just got to defend better, and yeah, that.   
 Q.  Blake, you guys came into this with a seven-game winning streak and you end up losing obviously the first playoff game.  What do you think changed from that great stretch you guys had to this game where things sort of looked out of sorts throughout the whole game for you?  
BLAKE GRIFFIN: Defensively we weren't as good as we needed to be.  Like CP said, turnovers, mainly myself.  It's tough to win a game when you turn the ball over so much.  So we've got to do a better job on both of those fronts.   
 Q.  Blake, what sort of challenge did Derrick Favors present to you guys defensively once Gobert went down at the beginning of the game?  
BLAKE GRIFFIN: You know, I thought they just got into the paint and dumped it off to him.  He puts the pressure on you on the offensive glass, but so does Gobert.  He was solid tonight, and I think he had a lot of dump-offs for easy buckets, so we've got to be better, low-man help and all that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT