MLB WORLD SERIES: GIANTS v ANGELS
October 26, 2002
David Eckstein
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  David, how welcome was it just to have a day completely away from the ballpark and what did you do with it?
 
DAVID ECKSTEIN:  It was very nice, especially after the mental grind that we've gone through for the beginning part of this series in which we were able just to step away and refocus, I think.  That was the main thing I did.  I continued to do my same stretching, everything like that, but just to refocus ourselves and get ready to play tonight.  
 
Q.  No matter what happens tonight, is there some recognition by you guys of what you've done here with this team this season and does it take any of the pressure off to know that just by winning the playoffs, you got past any kind of Angel jinx that might have been out there? 
 
DAVID ECKSTEIN:  You know, our main goal is to win it all.  That's what we're focused on right now.  Anything less, I know the guys in the clubhouse are not going to be satisfied.  But we definitely know we went out and we've done a lot of great things this year, but we still want the main goal.  I think we'll still be a little disappointed if we don't finish it out.  
 
Q.  Mike Scioscia talks about treating every game the same, whether it's spring training or the World Series.  How do you actually do that in a situation like this? 
 
DAVID ECKSTEIN:  We have to, if we want to win.  If we go out there and change our approach, do things different, we don't have a shot, because the Giants are a great ballclub, they'll come out and beat us.  We maintain that same focus in which we go out there and play the style of game we need to play to win.  If we don't, we're not going to be here tomorrow.  
 
Q.  When you talk about keeping things exactly the same as you approach every other game, is it hard to fight the instincts, the natural inclination to take a look at the big picture, "We have to win two," feel like, "I have to turn it up a notch because this game means so much"?  Is it hard to put that out of your mind?
 
DAVID ECKSTEIN:  You're definitely thinking it because you know if you don't win today, there is no tomorrow.  That aspect of the mental psyche comes into it.  We know as a club, we have to play the same way we played during the regular season to have a chance to win tonight.  So, if we look past tonight in thinking about we have to win two games, our focus is all wrong because we have to win the first game to get to the second game.  
 
Q.  How much has your family enjoyed this experience, being here, and have they been able to stay out of your way a little bit to some degree and let you concentrate?
 
DAVID ECKSTEIN:  My family is thrilled.  They are my biggest supporters.  They understand my routine down to a science.  They know not to mess with me.  My dad did not come back out this weekend, but my mom came back because they understand that this is not a vacation, whatsoever.  They barely get to see me anyways.  But it's just a pleasure to have them be able to come out earlier on just to see me play.  That was the first time they ever came out here. 
 
Q.  Three hours away from the game.  What has the mood been like in the clubhouse so far today?  Any quieter than normal?
 
DAVID ECKSTEIN:  It's been about the same.  Our club doesn't really change.  We stay on that even keel in which we all are so routine it's not even funny, we are all doing our same routines that we've done the previous days.  We are a very confident club.  The clubhouse is very confident down there.  I'm telling you right now we just can't wait to get on the field.  We wish three hours would come a little bit quicker.  
 
Q.  With the way you play, are you beat up physically right now? 
 
DAVID ECKSTEIN:  Physically, I feel great.  My body, it's something that I've worked in years past in which I kept training consistently so I'd be able to maintain this point.  But, no, I feel real good, better than like even when the last week of season came around.  Having these days off definitely helps out the body tremendously during the playoffs.  
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT