AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: ANGELS v TWINS
October 7, 2002
David Eckstein
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  When you hit those two back-to-back grand slams in April, how big a turning point do you think that might have been for your team after its early struggles, symbolic or otherwise? 
 
DAVID ECKSTEIN:  I think, at that point, we weren't, you know, winning as many games.  It started a little run for us.  It definitely was, you know  -- I was just happy we won the game.  And the two grand slams Slams, the second one actually won the game, so that was definitely, you know, I was happy about that.  But it was just two games.  It wasn't too much of a big deal.  
 
Q.  Can you talk about the impact Mickey's had on the club and if he's wild and crazy?
 
DAVID ECKSTEIN:  He's definitely wild and crazy.  I think the key to his success and our team's success is he works with each individual guy and he doesn't try to change too much or set in a certain way, "You have to hit."  He takes each person and lets them do what they have to do and makes minor adjustments to that.  I think that's why we've been so successful. 
 
Q.  What are your recollections of playing against Mientkiewicz in college?  He recalls playing against you.  He said you're the same player now, and he hated you then. 
 
DAVID ECKSTEIN:  Yeah, playing against him in college.  I remember one time I kind of ran into the catcher at home plate.  He came up to me and told me he was going  -- if I did it again, he was going to kick my butt (laughing).  Definitely, those were heated times when we played each other.  And  -- but he's such a great player now, and I expect it's going to be very heated this series.  You enjoy playing against guys that play hard and he's definitely one of those guys that goes out and gives it everything he has.  
 
Q.  You were on the field behind Francisco Rodriguez Game 3 and 4.  What were you thinking as you watched him mow down the Yankees one after another?
 
DAVID ECKSTEIN:  Very impressive.  You know, for a guy that comes in at 20 years old, to do what he did and in the situation, it's, you know, he's a special person.  We're very fortunate to have him.  I think the credit goes out to the Angels' scouts who have signed him and the managers that have coached him throughout the Minor Leagues because he was definitely ready when the situation was called upon him.  Hopefully, he can continue his successes.  
 
Q.  How does the experience of playing at Yankee Stadium last week, is that going to help you with the chaotic scene you're going to see tomorrow and Wednesday night here?
 
DAVID ECKSTEIN:  Definitely.  As a little boy, your goal was always to play in Yankee Stadium.  To be able to play there during the playoffs was definitely a dream come true.  It was very loud.  But I don't think anything's going to compare to tomorrow night when, you know, with The Dome on and having the fans just scream like they do.  So, it's gonna be something that we haven't experienced yet so it's gonna be something that we're going to have to deal with.  
 
Q.  You haven't faced Joe Mays this year.  He was on the DL both times.  What do you remember from last year when you did face him? 
 
DAVID ECKSTEIN:  Yeah, Joe's a great pitcher.  I think his best thing is his command, his ability to sink the ball in and hit the corners of play and add in the curveball with the changeup.  I remember last year when he pitched against us, he pitched great.  I think he had two victories, if I'm not mistaken, against us.  When his command is on, he's tough to hit.  
 
Q.  Do you have to play a pop fly any differently here, knowing you can't take your eye off of it?  Also, probably can't hear Troy or Adam with the crowd. 
 
DAVID ECKSTEIN:  Oh, yes.  The pop flies here are definitely going to be tough, especially with the lighting of the roof and with the noise.  We  -- if anybody's seen us play, Troy and I, if Troy wants to catch the ball, he just puts his hand out and touches me so I know he has it.  So, it's one of the things that we do.  But we definitely can't take our eyes off it and it's going to be something that we're going to have to deal with.  It's going to be tough, but, hopefully, we'll get it done.  
 
Q.  Nationally, maybe most of the casual fans probably never heard of the players on either of these teams.  How do you see that?
 
DAVID ECKSTEIN:  Not at all.  I don't think anybody on our team is looking for the limelight.  We're going out there, trying to win games.  That is our main focus.  We don't care who gets it done; we just want to get it done.  Hopefully, over time, you know, the national media will recognize us.  But that's not our goal.  Our goal is just to win.  
 
Q.  As a team who knows how good the Twins are, what did you think about the series they had against Oakland?  
 
DAVID ECKSTEIN:  They showed so much character in the first game when things were not going the way they probably planned early on.  To have so much strength and just the character of the club to come back and win that game, it set the whole tone for that series, that they were going to play until the final out.  It's something that we, as the Angels, we know we better be ready to play because they're definitely a great team and you better not take anything for granted.  
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT