MADISON REGIONAL NCAA WOMEN'S VOLLEYBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
December 13, 2019
Laura "Bird" Kuhn
Camille Conner
Holland Hans
Makena Patterson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Wisconsin 3
Texas 0
HEAD COACH LAURA "BIRD" KUHN: Ing proud of this group. Heck of a season. They fought. The environment we expected for sure, and Wisconsin is a great team. They were consistent tonight and we executed but it just wasn't consistent enough on our time. The battle in the third set and the way they started playing like themselves and really settling in, that's who we really are and that's who this team has been this season and evolved and developed into and I'm proud of them.
Q. Holland, you get to that third set, and the ball is in your hand as they hit match point on your serve. What was your thought process? Did you go back there thinking you could get that run going that you know you can do?
HOLLAND HANS: That's always the goal is to just get as long a run back there on the service line as I can, but I just had to keep the same mindset. Just be aggressive, go out and do what I've been doing the whole game and just, yeah, get the ball on the other side of the court.
Q. What does Wisconsin do on offense that makes it hard to block them and slow them down at the net?
CAMILLE CONNER: I think their passing and defense in general, they were consistently in system which makes it hard. You just have to wait and read. With the fast offense they have, it was really challenging and I think we knew that coming in, and we were really excited to face them.
Q. Camille, what were you hoping to exploit on them defensively, how did it work? What was the biggest challenge for you that you faced defensively from them?
CAMILLE  CONNER: I think the biggest thing is that they were in system, and in a system like that, it's hard to stop them. On our side, just getting the ball to the net so I'm able to make decisions for the offense.
Q. Holland, you fall behind 7-1 in both the second and third sets and both times you closed to the third set eventually. What was the team able to do to refocus and get out of that early deficit?
HOLLAND HANS: We just had to go back to play as a team and looking to each other to get some momentum on our side. We look to each other and we know what our capabilities are, and so we just look to each other and just created that energy on our side. We got those points rolling.
HEAD COACH LAURA "BIRD" KUHN: Did you see the trust set in at the end with them? In that third set, they were rolling and we're in system like Camille was able to attack. When she's an offensive weapon, then it balances out way more, but we just needed to be in system more.
Q. What do you see in Wisconsin now that you've faced them live, and were they different at all from what you were anticipating from your preparations over it?
HEAD COACH LAURA "BIRD" KUHN: Their consistency. You know, like you can watch matches throughout the season and see when they have their breakdowns just like any other team, but it comes down to what you're putting on them. You've got to serve to target. You've got to serve tough and get them out of system.
They were consistent tonight. They made some plays and made smart plays here and there, and that's what we got talking about, just back to baseline and be consistent. You have to make them earn points. If they are rolling balls and if they are making smart plays, that's what you have to capitalize, but they were very consistent tonight. You know, like they are a physical team. We knew that. We knew that coming in. Us being in system was going to be crucial and key..
Q. What did the season and team mean to all you?
HEAD COACH LAURA "BIRD" KUHN: I think the seniors filled (ph) in there and set the tone. The foundation was laid last year but they set the tone for what the buy-in for this group and just the connection and character and personality they bring is special.
MAKENA PATTERSON: The seniors this year have set the foundation for this program and just their buy-in and their consistency coming into the gym every day, asking more from the underclassmen, it was something so cool to see and I'm super excited next year really just to try to follow what they did this year and continue on because Texas A&M Volleyball is going to be very good. So I'm super excited and thankful for the seniors.
CAMILLE CONNER: I think I was telling everyone in the locker room that the season just exceeded my expectations in every single way, and I could not have asked for like a better buy-in from this group, especially like for us as seniors, too. I think we really laid it all out there, but every single person bought in and we played for each other. I just think I couldn't have asked for a better season.
HOLLAND HANS: I agree with everything they said. I couldn't have asked for a better senior year, and I'm just so thankful for everyone (tearing) Texas A&M volleyball has a really bright future and I'm excited to watch.
HEAD COACH LAURA "BIRD" KUHN: They live it and breathe it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT