BREEDERS' CUP WORLD CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 6, 2009
Frank Jones
Dale Romans
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   ERIC WING: On the left is trainer Dale Romans. And on our right is owner Frank Jones. Trainer and owner respectively of Tapitsfly. Dale, congratulations on your first Breeders' Cup win. I'm sure the sound of that sounds very nice. Tell us these Juvenile Fillies, going on the grass, the amount of form they have is somewhat limited. But tell us what you saw in Tapitsfly in developing her and in her first grass race to make you think that something like this was within her scope.   
 DALE ROMANS: She was a known breeder since the day she was born, she's been a nice filly. She's never missed a beat. And her mother was a good grass horse and we figured she'd take to her. When we ran her at Saratoga.   
 We thought that was an awfully good race. And coming out here, she was doing so well, we knew she was going to run her best if that was good enough, and it proved to be good enough.   
 ERIC WING: Mr. Jones, congratulations on the win by Tapitsfly. I know your relationship and professional association with the Romans extends well back beyond Dale. Can you talk about your relationship with the family? Is this the greatest moment of all so far? .   
 FRANK JONES: Well, I think it is the greatest moment by far. And many, many thanks to Dale. His father and I were very close. His daddy trained for me. And then, he passed on a little early in life, and Dale's my adopted son.   
 ERIC WING: Was the race strategy we saw sitting just off Rose Catherine the way you envisioned it when you were drawing it up in your mind?   
 FRANK JONES: Yeah, I had trouble getting it drawn up because you couldn't figure out the formula. I told Robby we didn't have a lot of options. I thought we needed to break and give her the first 16th, 1/8 of the mile to try to clear the rest of the pack. And it worked out perfect, because it seemed she just liked to sit off of her.   
  
  Q. As the creator, can you talk about your breeding operation in general, and specifically the mating that produced this one?   
 FRANK JONES: Well, I'm probably one of these folks that doesn't have a lot to do with the breeding or the racing of them. I just leave that in the hands of other people, and Beau Lane and Dale decided who we should breed this mare to. And obviously they've done a great job. And I just stand back and let them do their work, and I can go on about my other business.   
  
  Q. What is that business?   
 FRANK JONES: I own a company that we're a catalog company, and we sell commercial and competitive swimming pool equipment all over the world.   
  
  Q. You've got some big racing wins on your resume. Where's this one rank for you?   
 DALE ROMANS: The Dubai World Cup is pretty special. But to win the Breeders' Cup here for Frank is probably number one. It tops the list so far.   
  
  Q. Four times to break the maid, and when did the light go on with her? And what do you attribute the improvement to?   
 FRANK JONES: We always thought she was special. We thought two things. She needed grass and she needed tock further than they were running early spring.   
 But she came to hand so quick and so easy, we went ahead and ran her to get the experience, and it seemed to have helped her. Since we got her to the turf, she's just steadily improved.   
 ERIC WING: Congratulations on the performance of your excellent 2-year-old grass filly, Tapitsfly.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT