WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC POOL A: TOKYO
March 9, 2009
Tatsunori Hara
Hisashi Iwakuma
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Last night, you got 14 runs, but tonight, you got shutout. What was the point for Todd's contest? And for Iwakuma you were perfect for the first thing ins, but the top of the fourth, you gave up a lead-off walked and caused a run, and this was the winning run. Tell us about that.
 TATSUNORI HARA: Well, yes, we scored 14 runs. A shutout loss after scoring 14 runs, that is baseball. If the opponent pitcher pitched well, it is always tough to hit against. Although today's contest was 1-0 game, it's a pitcher's game. Our pitchers did a great job as a unit, a unit of Team Japan, I strongly feel that each individual player gets together more stronger than yesterday. 
 So we feel with pride I will depart to the States. 
 HISASHI IKWAKUMA: Yes, top of the fourth, my first inning, I was so hot, I could locate wherever I wanted to. But I regret giving up the lead-off walk. 
 But still, not only me, but all of my pitches were hanging there. So, yes, I have one regret, a lead-off walk in the top of the fourth. 

 Q. Regarding last game, the batters were quite good in the last game. But today, the batting was not very good as compared to the last game. One question is the Korean Team, especially the pitcher, the pitcher was quite good, and to that pitcher, the Japan Team is weak. What do you think about this? 
 TATSUNORI HARA: It may be as I mentioned. The opponent pitcher pitched very well, and that is the main reason why the batters were not able to show their full ability. 
 The first game with the Korean Team, we probably thought we will be having opportunities to play with the Korean Team. That's why all of the players had a passion and were enthusiastic to play the Korean Team. The Korean Team and the Japan will be representing Asia for the second round, and we together, both teams, will show to the world the ability of the Asian baseball players. 
 Japan will represent Asia, and also the Koreans will be representing Asia. And unless we compete with each other, we will try our best, and of course they will try their best. 

 Q. In the bottom of the eighth inning, Ichiro got a one-out single and you sacrificed him to second. He has 500 career steals; why not send him in that situation instead of giving up the second out? 
 TATSUNORI HARA: Yes, that situation, we have so many options in my mind. I have three options, at least: Hitters, runners, and the result, he fouled off the first pitch, and the second pitch, we had an option to advance to second. That's our strategy. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT