SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 1, 2017
Amanda Butler
Dyandria Anderson
Ronni Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Florida - 71, Arkansas - 61
THE MODERATOR: We are joined by Florida.
Coach, an opening statement.
COACH BUTLER: Very proud of the way our team played, in particular in the second half, the way we rebounded, our shot selection, our overall passion and energy.  I think it was reflective of the outcome.
Our goal today was to be 1-0.  We didn't know exactly what that was going to look like.  We just wanted to make sure we did whatever it took to win.
Some amazing individual performances, some timely baskets.  Really proud of our second-half defensive effort.  That's what shows our pride.  That's where you show your passion.  Our team stepped up and did that today.
THE MODERATOR: Questions for the student-athletes.
Q. D, obviously a huge night for you offensively.  What got into you?
DYANDRIA ANDERSON: Coach Butler told me to be a leader out there.  I put my foot on the gas.  My teammates were giving me opening spots, great screens by Ronni.  Haley was able to get me to the basket, and I was just able to finish.
Q. Do you feel there was a turning point for you guys where you captured the momentum?
DYANDRIA ANDERSON: At halftime, Coach Butler said we needed to play with passion, play how we play.  After that, everybody was focused, tuned in, back to us being us.  That kind of led me to going hard, finishing, everybody doing their job.
Q. Ronni, a fellow post player Ty Fleming had an phenomenal game.
RONNI WILLIAMS: Ty is relentless, whether it's blocking the shot, getting the rebound.  She was just very relentless.  She understood we needed to come out with a bang.  As a senior, she stepped up to the plate and leaded us.
Q. What were your thoughts entering today's game?  Potentially an SEC tournament final, a loss here and things are finished for the season.
RONNI WILLIAMS: Just making sure I stayed focus on doing all the right things as a team, making sure as a team we stayed together, locked in, bought in, continue to do what we do best.
Q. The third quarter obviously you took over offensively and on the rebounding.  What changed from halftime to know you had to make the push in the second half?
RONNI WILLIAMS: Well, our defense.  We took pride in our defense.  When we do that, defense makes offense much easier for our team.  So we stepped up big-time with the rebounds, making sure we played our type of defense.
COACH BUTLER: Offensive rebounding is what we do best.  We knew we needed to pick that up second half.
Q. D, in the fourth quarter, you knew you had to be relentless in the play.  How do you think the team responded?
DYANDRIA ANDERSON: I think we did great.  We got the shots we wanted.  Everybody was in the right spots.  We got rebounds, did everything we do.
The fourth quarter.
A. For us.
THE MODERATOR: Questions for coach.
Q. Coach, defense is obviously something you stress quite a bit.  Can you assess the difference in the first and half?
COACH BUTLER: I think they said it very well.  We just played with more passion, more purpose, really trying to be us, not be reactive, playing with just overall greater energy.
We pressed a little bit more in the third quarter.  That's something we wanted to try to do, make a difference.
If you don't press with great energy, you're going to give up layups.  I thought our team really took responsibility, was really accountable, If we are going to play defense this way, we're going to make it work.
Took a lot of charges.  Haley took a charge.  Brook took a charge.  That's the way we play.  I thought that was really important.
Q. What do you remember about Texas A&M games?
COACH BUTLER: They were great SEC ballgames.  We just came up a little bit short for different reasons in both games.  In the first game, we turned the ball over too much.  We left Curtyce Knox wide open for threes.  In the second game, we didn't do a very good job of containing Knox on penetration.  They got us rotated a little bit.  We got out-rebounded.
As D mentioned, that's something we take great pride in.  That's where we want to show pride in who we are.  We know we got to have a much better defensive effort than the we the two previous trips.
Q. Ronni spoke on her behalf, but the rebounding and blocking effort, what did you see from her performance?
COACH BUTLER: As I was sitting here looking at the stat sheet, Ronni had 12 rebound Delicia Washington had nine and Ty had nine.  It felt like Ty's nine were so timely, they were huge.  If we were going to give a timely award, she would win it today because she got huge rebounds, and she only scored six points, but they were big, big baskets.  The way she protected the rim for us tonight was great and critical for us.  She played like a senior.
Q. The transition today was great today, passing the ball.  What did you see in the transition play?
COACH BUTLER: Well, we wanted to rebound well and ignite our transition, then do a good job of picking our spots.  I think we did an okay job with that.  That probably wasn't our best thing we did today.
When we played those plays in transition, when they were a result of good defense or tips, that's where we get our energy from.  We're an energy team.  It got our crowd more into the game, our bench more into the game.  That was part of the game plan.  Let's sustain the game plan.  Let's not get away from what we know will make this the result we want.  I think you saw a good job of that, as well.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much.
COACH BUTLER: Go Gators.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT