AUGUSTA NATIONAL WOMEN'S AMATEUR
April 1, 2021
Alexa Pano
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  Q. So you played the Island course for your front nine, Bluff course for the back.  In your experience, which course has proved the most challenging?
 ALEXA PANO:   I think for me it was probably Island, the front nine, yesterday, but I think there's a lot more challenging holes on the Bluff.  I just made some more big mistakes on Island.  But I think they're both equally difficult in their own ways.
 Q. How have the conditions changed from yesterday to today?
 ALEXA PANO:   The fairways are a bit more wet, and in some places that you're hitting it, it's a lot more wet than you're expecting.  But greens are still really quick and rolling nicely, but it is windier, and it is colder.  So that's going to make it a bit more challenging.
 Q. How has your mindset changed, or has it at all, from the first day?
 ALEXA PANO:   I think coming out this morning, it was really early, and it was freezing, and you're taking a cart ride out onto the course, which makes you even colder.  You're starting on a putt instead of the 1st tee.  So it's kind of more of a conservative mindset, just trying to get loose as quickly as possible and trying to make some pars and some birdies.
 Yeah, it was a bit more conservative at the end there, but I think this afternoon, I'm going to try and make some birdies for sure.
 Q. You're a veteran here.  What did you learn the last time that you can apply this year?
 ALEXA PANO:   I think for me I knew I needed to get off to a quicker start than I did last year, and I didn't really accomplish that.  But I still have 18 more holes to do so and start out early with some birdies and get my name higher on the leader board.  So hopefully, I can accomplish that.
 Q. Can you describe some of the differences between the golf course at Augusta National and the golf course here at Champions?
 ALEXA PANO:   Yeah, I think both courses are obviously super challenging, but at Augusta you've got a lot more rough, so driver is going to come into play a lot more there.  But I think here, your shots into the greens are really important because leaving them in a good spot, giving yourself less challenging putts or less challenging chip shots is super important.  If you're hitting it into the wrong spot, you can make some big numbers out here.
 Q. What are you going to do between now and your next round?
 ALEXA PANO:   I think I'm just going to hang out inside, get warm a little bit, and then probably go hit some putts, try and practice a bit before I go back out, get birdie vibes going.  I could use some.
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT