U.S. GIRLS' JUNIOR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 21, 2018
Alexa Pano
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You're in the U.S. Girls' Junior final.  Where does this rank among your career achievements?
ALEXA PANO: Probably one of the biggest things I've ever done.  Coming into this week, it's been insane and such a struggle for me, switching between three different caddies and gone through so many different struggles this week.  It's just -- it feels so good to just be in the finals finally.
Q. You played fewer holes than most players the last couple rounds.  Do you think that helped today feeling fresh?
ALEXA PANO: I don't really think today's round it helped.  The other rounds I think it helped out a ton, but today just kind of -- it was just putting everything out there.  I don't think that any of the other stuff mattered coming into this round.
Q. Are you extra motivated playing a caliber of Lucy Li's caliber, the top-ranked junior player in the world?  She's been a household name for four years now; did that give you a little bit of extra motivation?
ALEXA PANO: Not really.  I thought of Lucy as any other competitor.  I thought if I thought about all of her accomplishments and how good she is, that would kind of mess with my head.  But hats off to her, she played insanely well and made me struggle almost more than any other match I had this week.
Q. And now you don't have to qualify for this event for at least three years now, depending what happens in the next round.  Talk about that; is that a load off your mind?
ALEXA PANO: Yeah, definitely.  I mean, it's so hard to get into qualifiers for these events because when you're in season, it's really hard to just drop everything and have to fly to a place, and I'd love to just stay home and do a qualifier.  Being able to be exempt for a few years, and I'm really happy to be able to do that.
Q. You're now exempt into the Women's Amateur in a couple weeks.  How important is that to you?
ALEXA PANO: That makes me feel awesome because I actually had to WD from my qualifier because I wasn't feeling great that day, and my dad forced me to withdraw because it just wasn't worth finishing.  And to be able to get another chance to go three years in a row is awesome.
Q. The last 13 year old to win this event is someone by the name of Lexi Thompson.  Did you realize that?
ALEXA PANO: I think I've heard she's won.  I think I saw her photo in there.  I didn't know it was at 13 years old.
Q. Now, you've got a quick turnaround before starting the final.  You don't have a night to sleep on it.  What do you do between rounds?
ALEXA PANO: I'm probably going to go eat and fix some of the mistakes I played with today.  I struggled with my chipping a bit, and I've just got to fix some quick errors and hop right out there and do it again.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT