U.S. GIRLS' JUNIOR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2018
Alexa Pano
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Talk a little bit about that stretch, I guess you won four holes in a row, kind of pulled away.  Was there any particular shot in that stretch that stands out?
ALEXA PANO: Not really.  I mean, I just kind of stayed consistent, and I had some birdie opportunities on those holes but she'd clearly made bogey, so I just kind of played match play with it.
Q. Obviously a quick day on the course today.  You've had a lot of quick days.  How nice is it to get off early today given that you had to sit around here for a long time today before you played?
ALEXA PANO: I mean, it definitely feels good when you're sitting around for so long to go out and get a lead.  I mean, when you're sitting around all day, you expect to come out and it's going to be slow out there, but getting a lead early is definitely key.
Q. What did you guys do to kind of pass the time today?
ALEXA PANO: We made a puzzle.  It was really hard, but they gave it to us as a gift of our sweet 16, and then we blew bubbles and sat around and talked about how bored we were.  So that kind of sums it up.
Q. Could you watch any of the British Open at all?
ALEXA PANO: No, none of that.  I wish.
Q. You and Lucy have a pretty good history, two national Drive, Chip and Putt champions.  You guys played together last week at the Junior PGA.  Obviously she comes in with a lot of credentials.
ALEXA PANO: Yeah, I'm definitely excited.  Lucy is a good friend and she's a really strong player, so it should be a really good match, and I'm super excited to play her.
Q. There's a little bit on the line, especially for you.  She's already in the Women's Amateur, you're not, so a win gets you into the Women's Amateur.
ALEXA PANO: Yeah, I'm not really thinking about that while I'm playing, just kind of playing the golf event.  I made that choice on my own to not finish because I was not feeling great that day, and so I mean, if I don't make it, that's my own fault.  I just want to go into the match --
Q. Is that a little bit of an extra incentive for you, though?  Obviously you win two, you get a big prize, but given the fact you're not in the Women's Amateur, I'm sure you'd love to play in it.
ALEXA PANO: Yeah, I would like to play in it.  I mean, I have the past two years, but I came to the U.S. Junior to win the U.S. Junior.  I didn't come to qualify for another event.  So I'm just kind of keeping my head on straight about that.
Q. What are your plans for tonight, just get your legs up?
ALEXA PANO: Yeah.
Q. You've actually been fortunate enough to not have to deal with the marathon days.
ALEXA PANO: Yeah, I haven't been one of those people coming back out, so kind of the plan is to go practice a bit and then get back.
Q. Have you had a routine every night, a certain restaurant or anything like that?
ALEXA PANO: Yeah, actually.  We've stopped at Smashburger every night.  I haven't been to In-N-Out yet.
Q. If Smashburger is working, you stick to the superstitions?
ALEXA PANO: Yeah, definitely.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT