U.S. GIRLS' JUNIOR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 26, 2017
Alexa Pano
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You got your first match play match under your belt; how did you play today?
ALEXA PANO: Today was a pretty rough day of playing, but I ended up winning, so that's basically all that matters.
Q. When you say rough, you got off to a slow start?
ALEXA PANO: Definitely a slow start, slow middle, until about the 15th hole.  It was just a really slow day.  I never really got to a comfortable point in my round as I did the past few days.  It was just a tough day.
Q. How were you able to close it out?  How were you able to get going and get this thing done?
ALEXA PANO: I kind of said to myself, if I don't get it together, I'm going to lose this match.  The way that I'm playing right now is not going to get it done, and I knew something had to change, so I kind of tried to change my mindset a bit, and apparently it worked in a good way.
Q. What did you do?  How did you close it out?  You had --
ALEXA PANO: I birdied the par-3, 16; parred 17; and birdied 18.
Q. And your birdie lengths, how long were your putts?
ALEXA PANO: 15 feet and about six.
Q. On the respective holes?
ALEXA PANO: Yes.
Q. Just looking ahead tomorrow, what do you have to do to get happy again and play some good golf?
ALEXA PANO: I'm definitely going to have to go work on my putting setup and my swing because those were the two main things that I did poorly today, and I'm just going to have to go out tomorrow and focus a little bit more on my game, and hopefully that will help me get it done.
Q. Do you feel pretty good about -- you're one of the two youngest contestants here this week.  You kind of have just a lot of ways to go, right?  I'm not going to say nothing to lose, but you're young; does that help at all?
ALEXA PANO: I mean, I try to look at it just I'm the same as any other competitor here, but maybe some of the other girls think of it differently, but I try to just -- I'm the same height as most of them.  I've been playing golf the same, maybe longer than most of them, so I consider myself the same level as them, and hopefully I can prove it by winning this week.
Q. You've grown a lot; how many inches have you grown since last year?
ALEXA PANO: Since last year I've probably grown about seven inches.
Q. How tall are you now?
ALEXA PANO: I'm 5'8 ½".






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT