U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 6, 2019
Alexa Pano
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What was working well for you today?  
ALEXA PANO: I don't know.  I guess I felt like I was hitting it really well the past couple of weeks and wasn't getting a ton of putts to drop.  But on the back nine today, kind of got things rolling pretty well, and I guess just stayed consistent like the whole week, even when I had a couple bogeys, always bounced back from them.  So just consistency, I guess.   
 Q.  What have you learned so far that it takes to be successful at this course?  
ALEXA PANO: Definitely hitting fairways and just playing smart.  This isn't a course that you can attack with distance, it's more like accuracy and planning out your shots ahead of time.  Definitely it takes a lot of focus.   
 Q.  Were you aware where you were?  Did you take a peek at any scoreboards on the course?  
ALEXA PANO: I mean, I kind of knew because I saw a couple of my friends were at 5, but I don't know, there aren't many on the front nine, so I kind of had a little bit of an idea, though.   
 Q.  Is being medalist something you're conscious about, or it just doesn't matter?  Some players like to try to get that top seed, some players say no.  
ALEXA PANO: I mean, the past few years I've been really close to top seed.  Last year I doubled the final hole to come in -- I think I was fourth or fifth seed, and the year before I was like maybe seventh seed and I lost in the first round both times.  To be honest with you, the higher the seed, I better, I suppose.  I mean, I can't -- like my dad said, I can't go out and play for second.   
 Q.  When you're in the moment, do you even think of -- is that something you think about, a score, or are you just --  
ALEXA PANO: I mean, not really.  I guess I just like focus on the round, I suppose.   
 Q.  Obviously it starts over tomorrow; what do you need to do to be successful in match play?  
ALEXA PANO: I mean, there's always improvements to be made.  I could work on some 50-yard shots, and I think I'm going to go do that.  Like I said, it's all consistency on this golf course and focusing on every shot, so if I can keep what I'm doing and make a few improvements, I hopefully can have a good week.   
 Q.  Obviously the weather is pretty conducive to somebody that lives in Florida.  This is hot and humid, you see this a lot.  Is it something you're comfortable with?  
ALEXA PANO: Honestly, this is like -- the hot I'm used to.  The humidity is a lot.  I'm feeling it, but like at the same time, it's like, okay, it's manageable, but I've never sweated this much in my whole life.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT