U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
May 30, 2019
Alexa Pano
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What was round 1, your first round in a U.S. women's Open, takeaways?
ALEXA PANO: It was really fun, but it was really rough, and a lot of improvements need to be made for tomorrow, definitely.
Q. What were you struggling with out there?
ALEXA PANO: Definitely, my golf swing a lot.  Like my drives and like a lot of my shots to the greens were off.  And I felt really good with my putting on the front nine but struggled a lot on the back with it.
Q. Talk about birdieing the first two par 5s.  What kind of preparation did you do for that?
ALEXA PANO: Yeah.  I actually hit it on those two par 5s in both of the places that I didn't want to hit it, and ended up recovering really well and giving myself, like, easier birdie putts and just made them, which is really good.
Q. (No microphone).
ALEXA PANO: I'm definitely hitting my drives a little straighter, like on the first few holes, like, I know I hit it in the hazard on No. 10, and then the other ones were just really far off.  And once I got a little bit straighter, it was easier to make easier pars.
Q. Talk briefly kind of what this experience has been like so far and what it means to you to be here?
ALEXA PANO: It's been so much fun.  It's obviously one of the biggest golf tournaments in the world.  It's been so cool getting to know all the players here and being able to play this beautiful course.  I've had so much fun here.
Q. Did it feel different on the 1st tee than the other big tournaments you've played in so far?
ALEXA PANO: I mean, there's definitely a lot of spectators, which is really cool.  After playing in the Augusta Women's Am this year, it's kind of like really cool getting to see both of those and comparing those.  They've both been pretty similar.  They're both really huge.
The 1st tee is really cool here, like rather the other events that I've played in.
Q. Anyone you were excited to meet or play alongside or watch?
ALEXA PANO: I already knew Morgan Pressel, but we've kind of gotten to talk a little bit this week, which has been cool.  And I've, honestly, just played with some of my friends this week.  It's really cool, but yeah, it's still been fun playing with them.
Q. What adjustments are you going to make tonight to help you tomorrow morning?
ALEXA PANO: Hopefully a lot.  Definitely, like I said, my golf swing was off, like, throughout the whole day.  That's definitely an adjustment I need to make.  Hopefully, just fine tune things to help for a low round tomorrow.
Q. What's it like playing an event with players from so many different countries around the world?
ALEXA PANO: Yeah.  Ever since I was younger, I've been playing international events, but it's really cool to have everyone here at one event, and it's such, like, a diverse field and really cool to be able to compete against as many great players from all around the world.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT