RBC HERITAGE
April 17, 2015
Matt Every
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Slight stumble on the front nine, but you make up for it on the back nine and you finish in style on the 18th. 
MATT EVERY:   Yeah.   Yeah.   Yeah, 8 I got a mud ball; cost me a shot.   And then 9 I hit a good tee shot in a divot.   But I've gotten a ton of good breaks the day before.   So I was kind of owed a few, I guess.
But, yeah, the last few holes I hit it nice.   I feel like I found something in my swing, the last five or six holes.   I really haven't been hitting it good the last two days, but hopefully I can carry that into the weekend.

Q.   You said you had to rely on the short game yesterday.   Was it there for you again today for you, for the most part?
MATT EVERY:   Yeah, it wasn't as good, but I had some good saves.   Yesterday was phenomenal.   I know it's not going to be like that all the time.

Q.   How are you feeling about the weekend?
MATT EVERY:   I'm excited.   I don't know what the weather is going to be like, but hopefully we get some wind, so it can separate the field a little bit.   I feel like it's pretty bunched up right now.

Q.   Got some red numbers on the day, and also puts you into contention heading into the weekend.   Yesterday you described your round as "greasy".   How would you describe this round?
MATT EVERY:   It wasn't that greasy.   It was pretty normal.   Didn't hit it that great again, but the last four or five holes I hit it pretty good.   I think I found something in my swing.   So hopefully can carry that into the weekend.

Q.   How optimistic are you?   Because you said you didn't hit it as well today.   You said you didn't hit it as well yesterday, but you're still scoring.   So once you start clicking, how good do you think that's going to be?
MATT EVERY:   You never know.   It's a weird game.   Some days you hit it good and miss everything.   Some days you hit it bad and make everything.   So I am optimistic, but I would be optimistic anyway, you know. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT