FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
June 8, 2014
Matt Every
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Well, still some golf to be played.   Are you pretty pleased with where you stand in your round?  
    MATT EVERY:   Yeah.   It was a battle today.   I made one on the last so it makes up for some mistakes earlier, but missed a short one on 17 and just misjudged the wind on 15 and made double, and in the air I thought it was -- I was going to have like a kick-in birdie.   
    Those are pretty deflating.   I'd rather hit a bad shot and make a bad score than make hit a good shot and make a bad score.  
    Yeah, good week and I'm looking forward to next week.  
   
 Q.   How does this prepare you for next week, weather conditions?  
    MATT EVERY:   For me it's more mental.   I actually had a great year except for like the last month, kind of struggling, and I wanted to play my way through it and really wasn't going to play here until about a week ago and I'm glad I did.   I got a lot out of this week.   You know, I'm hitting it better, making some putts and really looking forward to next week.  
   
 Q.   Guys talked a little bit about how the course sets up, the conditions.   Do you feel it will help you next week?  
    MATT EVERY:   I mean same greens.   They're bermuda greens.   They're not like some.   The wind helps a little.   If we didn't get all that rain, firm and fast would have been similar but I would say the greens -- bermuda greens are what people say they're similar, that's what they're referring to.  
   
 Q.   What is it like playing for a benefit for St. Jude's Research Hospital?  
    MATT EVERY:   It's awesome.   When I first got on Tour your my mom was like, "You better put down St. Jude's, your charity."   They do such a cool thing for the kids and their families and it's really neat.  
   
 Q.   Are you disappointed with the round?  
    MATT EVERY:   No.   I'm a little bummed out.   Everyone can say they can do better.   I've been playing long enough, I didn't want to be that guy who thinks the world is against him because I know it's not.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT