ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 22, 2014
Matt Every
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MARK STEVENS:   We'll go ahead and get started.   Matt, thank you for taking the time to come in.   Great bogey‑free round at a tough day at the Arnold Palmer Invitational.   If you want to talk about your round and some of the highlights, and then we'll take some questions.   
MATT EVERY:   It was pretty solid.   I just took what it gave me.   I've been playing well for a while, so I just knew if I kept doing what I've been doing, something good is going to happen.   
And I missed a couple of early‑‑ a couple of really good looks on the front.   And then on the back I made a long one on 13.   Those usually don't go in.   So that was nice.   And then I made a couple of coming in.   So it was good.   
MARK STEVENS:   Is that shot on 13 what got you going?   
MATT EVERY:   I don't really think anything gets me going.   It's just happens.   I mean it's not like I birdied, now I'm going to birdie the next.   If I bogey, I still think I'm going to birdie the next.   
   
 Q.   You start the day and you are about nine shots up, what's your objective on a day like that?  
MATT EVERY:   Yeah, I know you can't win it on Saturday, so shooting the lowest is my objective, yeah.   
   
 Q.   You hope for what at the end of the day, a chance?  
MATT EVERY:   Yeah, I was hoping Adam's flu was getting worse or something, yeah.   I'm kidding.   
   
 Q.   No, you're not.   
MATT EVERY:   No, I am.   
   
 Q.   Two top‑10s in your last three events, that points to some things going well for you.   Anything you can point to?  
MATT EVERY:   This year has been really good.   I've actually‑‑ I feel like I've had a chance to win every tournament going into Sunday, especially for Pebble.   And even Phoenix and Honda, I just played terrible in the last round.   But I believe I was in the top 10 going into the last round there.   
And last year I had a full‑time coach.   He was awesome.   And I learned a ton.   But I kind of got lazy and started relying a little too much on other people to help me.   If I was hitting it bad, I would go, I'll wait until next week when he comes back and I'll straighten it out.   That's terrible.  
This year I'm trying to do everything by myself, just be committed to everything, and trust‑‑ just trust in myself, and my caddie, too.   He's been with me forever, he's watched me play a ton.   It's kind of just me and him, that's it.   And we've been rolling with it, and it's good.  
   
 Q.   What do you think held you back from winning this to this point?  
MATT EVERY:   I think I've been too aggressive on Sundays.   You can hit a lot‑‑ you can hit good shots out here on Sundays and‑‑ it might not turn out great.   You're staring it down, and the next thing you know you're shortsighted and it's bogey.  
So maybe just‑‑ I don't know.   It's not nerves.   I mean‑‑ and I'd tell you if it was.   It's really not.   It just, you know, it just hasn't happened.   But eventually I'm pretty sure it will.   
   
 Q.   Sort of a follow on that last question, so tomorrow do you just go out and play the way you have been or do you try to be less aggressive?  
MATT EVERY:   Yeah, well, we'll just have to see how things go.   I like to watch leaderboards.   So it's so situational.   I mean it really is.   It's hard to say.   Obviously like 13, if the wind is back right over those rocks and it's downwind, I'm not going to go at that pin.   I wouldn't go at it, anyways.  
It's just little things.   When I say I'm being too aggressive, it doesn't mean I'm going for every par‑5 at 270.   I never would hit a shot unless I thought I could pull this off.   And I won't lie to myself.   So it's just‑‑ it's very situational.   
   
 Q.   What club did you hit on 17?   And then you had to wait on the tee and you said you like to look at leaderboards, and it looked like you turned around and looked at a leaderboard?  
MATT EVERY:   I don't know what I was looking at.   I hit 5‑iron.   But I was just looking around.   I don't know what I was looking at.   
   
 Q.   You talked about you wouldn't go after a shot unless you could execute it.   Has that always been the case when you've been out here?  
MATT EVERY:   Yeah, yeah.   I mean it doesn't always work out.   But I'm not perfect.  
   
 Q.   Both Fergie and I were at Sony when you had a chance to win, which was a couple of years ago.   You were a lot different in the chair then than you are now.   
MATT EVERY:   Skinnier?   (Laughter).  
   
 Q.   That might be true.   But you had a‑‑ I don't want to say an arrogance ‑‑ but a little bit of arrogance about being there, and there was no question you should be there and you should always be there.   How did you temper that between that time and how you are now?  
MATT EVERY:   I just learned a lot.   You grow up fast out here.   You learn a lot.   A lot of‑‑ I know a ton of guys out here would tell you this is a very humbling game, the highs are high and the lows are really low.   You just have to deal with it.  
My life is not all golf.   I have a wife and a kid now so I do practice, but other than that, I don't really‑‑ I just don't think about it that much.   
   
 Q.   Who was your coach you mentioned you had last year?  
MATT EVERY:   I've kind of been bouncing around a little bit, Scott Hamilton, and Jorge Parada, and they both have been awesome.   And they're both great coaches.  
   
 Q.   It sounds like what you said a minute ago, that you want to get to the point where you can fix your swing on your own.   Have you always been able to do that or did that take work to be able to do that?  
MATT EVERY:   I think that's actually one of my strengths.   I can adjust during rounds.   I'm not scared.   I have a massive amount of trust in myself, and I'm not scared to try something and if it doesn't work out I can deal with it, as long as I committed to it.   
Where I get mad is where I just‑‑ when I know I'm going to hit a bad shot and I hit a bad shot, there's nothing worse than that.   Why did you even pull the club back?   
   
 Q.   Besides being self reliant and trying to hone your own swing, what has fueled your good play this year?  
MATT EVERY:   I think putting stats are better.   And I don't feel like I'm putting that great.   I switched equipment.   It's been a really easy change for me.   Anytime you switch it's‑‑ you just never know.   And it's been great.   So I'm really happy with that.   And then I guess my putting stats are a little better.   But it's not‑‑ I really think a lot‑‑ 90 percent of it is believing in myself and doing the work myself.   
   
 Q.   I think of TPC as kind of your hometown event.   Is this something you came to as a kid?   What would it mean to win this tournament?  
MATT EVERY:   It would be cool.   Orlando is like an hour from Daytona.   It's definitely‑‑ this is the first event I ever went to, probably came about five years in a row with my dad.   And he would drop me off and I would follow Calcavecchia around, and everybody else, the people that went with us, would sit on a certain hole.   And we'd meet up at the end of the day.   
But it would be really cool if I could win.   I don't know if that's how‑‑ a lot of it depends on Adam.   I don't even know what he's at.   When I left he was 15.   But a guy like him with a 6‑shot lead, it's almost impossible.  
   
 Q.   How close do you have to be, do you think?  
MATT EVERY:   He's playing pretty good.   I would say‑‑ I don't know, I feel like no matter what answer I give there it's going to sound terrible, so I'm not going to answer it.   
   
 Q.   How old were you when you first came here?  
MATT EVERY:   Eight, maybe younger.   
   
 Q.   Why Calcavecchia?  
MATT EVERY:   I loved his style.   I just liked his overall ease.   He was very comfortable in his own body.   A lot of guys out here, I don't know, I liked the way he carried himself.   I just‑‑ he just really didn't care what other people thought.   
A lot of fakers out here just‑‑ just because you wear stupid clothes doesn't mean you have style.   It means you wear dumb clothes (laughter).  
Honestly that's what I liked about him.   He was just‑‑ he was awesome.   And over the years going through college and my pro career I've gotten to know him better, I got to know him a little bit in college because he went to Florida.   And Joan Alexander used to be in that seat there, she knew that it was all about Mark so she would set us up little bit.   I got to meet him.   He's a great guy.   
   
 Q.   Just being a Gator, will you try to follow the tournament today?  
MATT EVERY:   Not really.   I do care, but it's more important that I play well than the Gators winning.   I don't think they knew I was playing golf today (laughter).  
MARK STEVENS:   Thanks for your time.   Good luck tomorrow.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT