VALSPAR CHAMPIONSHIP
March 13, 2014
Matt Every
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Matt, great finish to your round where you birdied 3 holes in a row coming down the stretch of that front-9, your final 9. 
Just talk about what you did well coming in.
MATT EVERY:   I stayed patient.   It's playing tough today and I just rolled in a few putts.   I hit it pretty solid all day and, you know, some looks are going to be better than others and I just had a couple that fit my eye and went in.

Q.   This course notoriously is one of the tougher ones in the non-Majors on Tour and then you combine the cold temperatures and the wind, it had to be even tougher in the early part of this first round, right?
MATT EVERY:   Yeah.   I mean the overseed on the greens isn't really good.   I mean I know they do it so it will look green but it probably should be bermuda so that you don't have a lot of grass on the greens and then the wind and the cold just make it -- the greens that much harder to putt.
It's tough.   I mean there's no let up in it, that's for sure.

Q.   Satisfied though at 3-under 68?
MATT EVERY:   I would have been satisfied with 2-over today.   Yeah, it was a good day.

Q.   Math, describe how difficult the conditions were out there today.
MATT EVERY:   It was tough.   This morning you couldn't feel your hands.   The wind was brutal.   Then the sun came out and your body kind of adjusted to the temperature.   It was definitely hard.

Q.   So given that, how good is that 3-under score you just posted?
MATT EVERY:   It's good.   I mean it was solid.   I made probably a few more putts than I usually do.   But I'm playing well and, you know, this is the just the first round.

Q.   What were was the secret to the birdies at 6, 7 and 8?
MATT EVERY:   I just -- they went in, you know.   Every now and then I get lucky and make a 15-footer.

Q.   Is this sort of a continuation of the consistency you've shown now throughout this season so far?
MATT EVERY:   Yeah.   I've been playing a lot better this year.   It's fun for me, I can wake up in the morning and go to the course when you know it's going to be pretty good.   Yeah, it's been good so far.

Q.   Even though you're 3-under or something, just sounds like --
MATT EVERY:   I've played enough to know the first round doesn't matter that much.   This place is just going to be about not making doubles and taking yourself out of the tournament.   You're going to make bogies just because there's mud balls out there and the wind and then the greens but I know that it's not that big a deal.

Q.   Five birdies, that's still pretty good performance.
MATT EVERY:   Yeah, it was good.   I'm happy with it.   Don't get me wrong.   I've even been playing good all year, though, so just kind of keep doing what I've been doing.

Q.   What was the key?   What was making it all happen?
MATT EVERY:   I'm just good right now.   I mean it's like driving it okay, my irons are always, you know, above average for out here and then usually it just comes down who makes the most putts and I made a few coming in that I normally don't make or, you know, so --
Q.You're pleased with yourself?
MATT EVERY:   Oh, yeah.   Yeah.

Q.   Any adjustments or tweaks or even to your approach before this season that has made this season better than previous?
MATT EVERY:   Not that I can share with you but I have made an adjustment but I don't want to disclose it.   It's personal.

Q.   When you wake up in the morning and it's cold, the wind is blowing, is that to your advantage at all?
MATT EVERY:   I wouldn't say that.   I don't think it's to anyone's advantage.   I mean maybe -- it might be a little to someone who is playing well because they know that their stuff can carry through not any weather but, you know -- someone is struggling they can kind of fake it out here, make some putts but if you're playing well, you can play well at almost anything.

Q.   The birdies you had down the stretch, were they close birdies or made some length?
MATT EVERY:   Oh, gosh, probably 12 feet, 12 to 15 feet and then about 20, 22 feet.   Yeah, they had some length to them, yeah.

Q.   How often, being a Florida guy, have you played this course?   Do you have any knowledge advantage?
MATT EVERY:   I think I played it once in a junior tournament right before I went to college but it was just one round and it was bermuda. 
You know, they douse it with overseeds to make it look green.   It's entirely different from what everyone says, you're from Florida, you'll have an advantage on flat courses.   Well, not really. 
Mine, they take away the bermuda and cover them with the overseed, the rye, so it's not a huge advantage, you know.

Q.   Somewhere you feel comfortable.
MATT EVERY:   Where I do feel comfortable?

Q.   I said this is somewhere you feel comfortable, though, or do you feel comfortable?
MATT EVERY:   Yeah.   If I don't feel comfortable out here I usually won't play that week, won't go to the tournament.   It's nice because my family and I can drive to Florida tournaments.   With a little boy, flying isn't the easiest thing in the world.   That's nice but that's about it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT