SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 14, 2012
Matt Every
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  CHRIS REIMER:   Welcome Matt Every back here tied for the third round lead at the Sony Open in Hawaii.     If we can just keep questions golf related, that would be much appreciated. 
Matt, maybe some opening comments about today's round and being tied for the lead, going into the fourth round and what that means to you.
MATT EVERY:   Well, first of all, it was weird starting off today because I didn't sleep real well last night, and then I just got off to a shaky start.   Could have gone the wrong way fast but was pretty proud of myself the way I hung in there, decent round, 2‑under is nothing to be ashamed about on this course, especially on Saturday, even though it did play a little easier today. 
So, I'm happy with it and really looking forward to having a chance to win tomorrow. 

Q.   Anything beyond that, except for the first time playing in the last group all weekend‑‑ I think it was, anyway, wasn't it?   This tour. 
MATT EVERY:   You're wrong.   I have played in the last group a couple‑‑ maybe not a couple times.   I think I played in the last group in Torrey on Saturday and I think I played in the last group in Phoenix on Sunday the year I was on TOUR. 

Q.   I don't have any chance to retract this question, do I?
MATT EVERY:   I don't care.   (Laughter).   Just it's not easy to sleep when you've got a lot to lose, you know. 

Q.   Secondly, on your round, if you could talk about 3, how important was that for you?
MATT EVERY:   No. 3, yeah, that's right.   I got really lucky on my second shot.   It barely cleared the water.   And then I hit a decent chip and I had like six or seven feet for par and that was big, because if I miss that, 2‑over after three.   And then the next thing you know, I could have made another bogey and then it's just kind of survival mode. 

Q.   You said it's hard to sleep when you have a lot to lose. 
MATT EVERY:   Yeah. 

Q.   Is that how you look at it? 
MATT EVERY:   No‑‑ I mean, it's hard not to say that.   I mean, I'm telling you guys the truth. 

Q.   I'm not questioning that.   Just some people look at it that it's‑‑
MATT EVERY:   I have a lot to gain, absolutely but also I have a lot to lose.   I'm in first place.   What else is there to gain right now, you know what I mean.   So, yeah, it's in the back of my mind.   But everyone thinks of that, maybe except for a few guys. 

Q.   I'm curious, going all the way back to high school, college, whatever you want, what's the largest lead you ever took into a final round?
MATT EVERY:   I don't know. 

Q.   You had some big ones. 
MATT EVERY:   I won in college I think four times.   I don't‑‑ it's tough to say because some days, you play 36‑hole days.

Q.   Stricker was talking last week, he had five‑shot leads‑‑
MATT EVERY:   I don't think I've ever had a real big lead or anything. 

Q.   You had a better day than your fellow Florida grad, Tim Tebow, is having; can you talk about your thoughts of watching what he's doing as a fellow former Gator? 
MATT EVERY:   I'm really happy for him.   I think a lot of the hate that comes on him, it's not his fault.   Like that's really who he is. 
Other than if you went to Georgia, I don't see how you can hate Tim Tebow.   (Laughter) I pull for him.   It sucks that they are getting whooped today, but you know, he's going to do fine. 

Q.   There have been a lot of questions about your putter.   The guy ‑‑ inaudible. 
MATT EVERY:   The guy who made it, his name is David Caragetta (ph), I'm not sure if I'm pronouncing his last name right.   He's an engineer.   I wouldn't be doing the putter justice if I explained it to you.   Like I know that it works for me.   He knows way more about it than I do.   He knows all the numbers behind it and everything. 

Q.   Is there a name for it? 
MATT EVERY:   Yeah, it's called the Blackhawk. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
MATT EVERY:   I'd say it just looks like a rectangle. 

Q.   Playing with a 47‑year‑old, 22‑year touring pro, what are you expecting tomorrow? 
MATT EVERY:   Well, I can't really control‑‑ you're talking about Jeff Maggert?   Yeah, I can't really control what he does.   But I've never played with him before.   I think he draws the ball, and I fade it, so I can't really watch his game, because we are two completely opposite players. 
But I'm just really‑‑ like I'm trying to slow down on the weekends, because I play really fast.   In twosomes, if things are moving faster out here, you don't really have slow play problems on weekends.   So I just need to slow down a bit tomorrow and keep it in front of me, and that's all I need to work on.

Q.   I need to understand, when Chris started this conversation here, he said he wanted to keep it to golf.   Yesterday when you were in here, I‑‑ are you today uncomfortable with what happened yesterday? 
MATT EVERY:   I'm not uncomfortable with what happened yesterday.   But I talked about it yesterday and I know you guys have a‑‑ it's your job to ask questions and I totally respect that.   But I already talked about it.   It's old news and I'm over it. 

Q.   Did you have difficulty‑‑ obviously there were different things that happened yesterday.   We wrote about it, we talked about it on air and I'm sure you got some phone calls and e‑mails last night.   Did that have anything to do with how difficult last night was? 
MATT EVERY:   It did a little, but I mean, my whole life, I've never really‑‑ other than like my parents and my wife and people‑‑ well, my family and my close friends, I don't‑‑ if other people don't like what I say, I mean, I'm sorry.   You know, like I'm not trying to hurt your feelings.   I'm not running for president; I'm a golfer.   So I'm really not trying to, you know, piss anyone off. 

Q.   I just wanted know if that was what was hard about last night?
MATT EVERY:   No. 

Q.   I was just trying to decipher, when you left here yesterday, did you have an awkward feeling leaving yesterday‑‑ after here, or there‑‑
MATT EVERY:   After I left here, yeah, I was fine. 

Q.   Would you talk about how you're feeling going into tomorrow, what you expect, what you think you need to do?
MATT EVERY:   I've got to play my best tomorrow, and keep it mistake‑free, hit a lot of fairways.   If you miss a fairway out here, it goes from trying to make birdies to just going for the center of greens and hoping you judge the flyers right. 
I mean, I'm just ready to get it over with. 

Q.   Will you sleep better tonight?
MATT EVERY:   Maybe.   I don't know. 

Q.   You've been in this position before‑‑ do you remember how you were in those situations? 
MATT EVERY:   It's different.   I mean, there's so many things that, like, today if I'm‑‑ I have my wife here this week.   I snore, so if she's not sleeping, she let's me know about it.   (Laughter) That's one thing. 
And then the other is, if I'm by myself, then, yeah, I'll sleep great, listen to some music before I go to bed and fall asleep with my head phones on.   I'm sure I'll sleep well.   I get a chance to sleep in, so it will be all right.

Q.   We are not used to people being forthcoming and always so personable, and I wonder if you sometimes out here feel like you are a circle trying to fit into a square peg. 
MATT EVERY:   That's a good question.   Sometimes‑‑ no.   I don't think I'm weird‑‑ I think I'm fine.   (Laughter).
But sometimes I'll be at home watching TV and you guys will be interviewing someone, and it's just like, I know some guys have to say, like, the perfect thing.   Sometimes you don't even need to interview him; you can write what they are going to say, you know.   Yeah, maybe a little bit, but there's other guys out here that are just as personable as I am. 

Q.   Who is your favorite TV interview? 
MATT EVERY:   Oh, man, I don't really have one.   You mean, like‑‑ I don't know, I like Jerry Foltz.   I think he's a good guy. 

Q.   Player‑wise?
MATT EVERY:   Oh, player‑wise.   Well, my buddies, I like to hear what they have to say.   I like Spencer Levin, Marino, just all of the guys I kind of grew up‑‑ I didn't really grow up with Marino, but grew up playing golf with and that I hang out with. 

Q.   What would it mean to win tomorrow? 
MATT EVERY:   Oh, man, it would mean a lot.   It would be really cool.   I mean, I've got a lot more to play now than I used to.   I've got a kid on the way, and you know, playing for family and it would be really neat.

Q.   Will it be harder, will a loss be worse ‑‑
MATT EVERY:   No, I get to try again next week‑‑ or actually I'm not in next week (laughter).   

Q.   If there's a lot of withdrawals‑‑
MATT EVERY:   Sure.   Can you Top‑10 into next week? 
CHRIS REIMER:   You cannot Top‑10 into next week. 
MATT EVERY:   Wait, what did you ask? 
CHRIS REIMER:   Would a loss be worse.
MATT EVERY:   In this sport, you lose every week.   You know, obviously some weeks you don't even have a chance to win, but it's not like it's me against Jeff Maggert tomorrow.   There's a ton of guys who can win this golf tournament. 

Q.   What do you have to shoot?
MATT EVERY:   Someone could shoot 8‑ or 9‑under, maybe 6‑under if it's windy. 

Q.   You talked a lot about how you feel for tomorrow; do you enjoy this?
MATT EVERY:   I actually enjoyed myself a lot today which was kind of weird, because, you know, yesterday and going into today, I was kind of dreading today.   But then when I got out here, I was like, I'm so glad I get to play golf today because it was almost the easiest thing is playing golf on the PGA TOUR. 
The hardest part is the travel.   If you play well, not that interviews are bad, but there's just a lot‑‑ like I'm starting to realize, this is my first time really, you know, being in contention, and I don't like‑‑ I don't know what those guys go through every week.   Now I'm starting to realize it. 
CHRIS REIMER:   Good luck tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT