WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 27, 2010
Matt Every
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Well played out there, a little up-and-down on the back nine, but talk about the conditions. 
 MATT EVERY: Yeah, it was good. Coming in the wind turned on us, and it was pretty severe. Just really one bad shot on 16 tee, and other than that, pretty pleased with the way I held it together.

 Q. As you head into tomorrow, your rookie year on TOUR, you've won golf tournaments before, but what do you take into tomorrow's round?
 MATT EVERY: Well, for some reason I was nervous yesterday. Today was good. I felt like I was playing with friends or somebody with a kind of similar personality. We played fast. I don't know if it's a comfort level or what it is, but we'll see tomorrow. 

 Q. What's been good with your golf game all week?
 MATT EVERY: Just been scoring good, hitting it pretty average, making putts, not making any bonehead moves. 

 Q. You're in an interesting spot, a spot you've hoped to be in for a long period of time, playing a PGA TOUR event, in the last or second-to-last group. How are your emotions?
 MATT EVERY: They're pretty good right now. I played well at Torrey this year, and last day was kind of shaky start-wise, but it really wasn't because of nerves. My game is good right now, so I'm going to try my hardest going in. But I'm going to try as best as I can. If it's not good enough, it's not good enough. But pretty happy with where I'm at.

 Q. You haven't had much experience in this position on the PGA TOUR. What are you going to use from your career and other events? You were at the top of your game in college. What are your going to do to stay in the moment? 
 MATT EVERY: Just try and keep everything ahead of me, you know, not let my mind race, not think about a winning number, just try and make birdie on every hole out here. I don't know what the weather is going to be like tomorrow, but if it's calm, pretty much that's the way you've got to play out here.

 Q. How would you explain conditions today?
 MATT EVERY: They were great the first I would say ten holes, and then all of a sudden -- it was weird, man, it wasn't even like a gradual pickup, it came in and came in pretty hot. The last five holes were straight into the wind except for 18. 
 I don't know, one bad swing on 15 tee, but other than that I was pretty happy with the way I played.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT