U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 19, 2005
Matt Every
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.
Was that a goosebump moment there on 18 for you?
 MATT EVERY:  Yeah, a little bit.  I was just    I didn't want to chunk it in front of all those people.  It was fun.  It was like that a lot out there today.  They were good.
Q.  You got pretty nice receptions on 17 and 18, a couple of them.  I heard some big cheers.  I think your mom was impressed by that.
 MATT EVERY:  Oh, yeah, I'm sure she was.  They were really good.  If I had a dollar for how many times I heard "Go Gators" this week, I'd make more money than the winner this week.  I had a lot of fun out there.  The whole week, really.
Q.  Eight one putts today.
 MATT EVERY:  Yeah, it's crazy.  I moved the ball back on my stance a little bit.  I don't know if that helped me, it probably helped me mentally, just something to fool around with.  But they rolled a little better, so it worked out.
Q.  72 holes, no double bogeys.
 MATT EVERY:  Oh, yeah, that's probably what I'm most proud of this week.  Before the week started, we have this guy, his name is Gio Valenti.   You ever heard of him?  He's really cool.  He's actually a volunteer assistant for Florida.

And I was talking to him on the range and he said the biggest thing this week was when I'm in the rough and it's marginal, err on the safe side.  Every time I got in there and it was questionable whether I could carry something, I always took the less club and just hacked it out in the fairway.  And I also think my irons into the greens this week, I missed on the right side.  And it showed, I guess.
Q.  You said yesterday the thing you needed to do was work on your putting before you felt like you maybe belonged out here permanently.  Is that something you'll take into the next year?
 MATT EVERY:  Yeah, I think I can make a living out here right now, to tell you the truth.  But if I want to be great, or better than average, I definitely have to roll it a little better.  I mean granted, if you have like a 30 footer here, sometimes you're worried about putting it off the green, because you're five feet past the hole, you're 30 yards away.  So, I don't know, that could have had something to do with it this week.  Normally I'm not that bad.
Q.  Obviously, you're not    this couldn't have hurt your Walker Cup chances.
 MATT EVERY:  No, that's good.  I hope they'll pick me now.  If they don't, I don't know what else I can do.  But this week, fortunately, my parents, they take care of me great.  They're awesome.  And my mom did everything.  Like when I qualified, I had to play in this Palmer Cup thing in       Whistling Straits.  I was relaying all the info to my mom over the phone.  The minute I qualified, I had to get on a plane to go there.  It was a last minute deal.  And she did everything.  My dad was good through it all.
Q.  (Inaudible).
 MATT EVERY:  No, no, I qualified    what happened was we had a rain delay late that night during the qualifier.  Next morning I was supposed to leave for the Palmer Cup, well, I had to go back and playoff.  So I won the    or I made it through the playoff and we made our flight by ten minutes.  When I got off the green, nobody said congratulations.  It was like, okay, let's go.  And I was like, okay, cool.  But that's about it.
Q.  Can you talk about this course just a little bit, maybe how you feel about the impact in the rotation.
 MATT EVERY:  This isn't    this is my first Open, so it's not like I'm a veteran out here.  It's a good course.  Most of the time it doesn't reward good shots.  I mean I've seen so many good shots this week right at it, just the slightest kick to the left or to the right and you're done.  But I like how you had to hit it in the fairway or you got penalized, I thought that was great.  It's a good course.  And it tests all areas of the game.  I think it's a good U.S. Open course.
Q.  (Inaudible).
 MATT EVERY:  No, I'm not going to do that to my coach or my team.  I'm not going to do that.  The Tour always will be there.
Q.  After tasting this, seeing this out here, getting cheers on every hole
 MATT EVERY:  Like Tuesday I'm leaving for the Northeast Amateur, talk about a buzz kill (laughter).  Nothing like    I'm not knocking Northeast Am, it's an awesome amateur tournament, but it's the U.S. Open.
Q.  It's going to be hard to go back to play all those amateur tournaments, right?
MATT EVERY:  Yeah.
Q.  In front of maybe your mom, and that's it?
MATT EVERY:  My host family, and that's it.
Q.  Your mom said she watched the last half of the U.S. Open at the Laundromat.  She did take care of you.
MATT EVERY:  She did these pants.  She ironed them, too.
Q.  How much did this week cost you in terms of travel and lodging and all that?  Did you rent a house?
 MATT EVERY:  No, we got a hotel.  Oh, man, probably about five, six grand, maybe more.  But it was worth it.  It wasn't my money, it was my dad's (laughter).  I'll pay him back one day, I swear.
Q.  You didn't sign a contract with him, did you?
MATT EVERY:  No, I didn't sign a contract.
Q.  What's your dad do?
MATT EVERY:  My dad, he owns his own construction business in Daytona.
Q.  When are you supposed to hear about that Walker Cup deal?  Is it in August?
 MATT EVERY:  You know, I don't know    it's in August sometime.  We're going to do some practice thing.  We won't get stomped if they pick the right people.
Q.  Who would that be?
 MATT EVERY:  We won the Palmer Cup , there you go, right there.  But I think    I don't know when I'll hear.  And if    I might not get picked the first wave of people.  It's cool if I don't.  I'm sure I'll get named to it.  I better.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT