WIMBLEDON
July 1, 2015
Bethanie Mattek-Sands
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







B. MATTEK‑SANDS/A. Ivanovic
  6‑3, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   That was nice, wasn't it?
BETHANIE MATTEK‑SANDS:   Very good, yeah.   I feel happy about that win.   I mean, Ana has been playing well.   She plays aggressive so I was just trying to beat her to the punch.

Q.   She said that the match seemed to go really quickly for her.   That she never felt she got much traction, but the game plan you had out there, talk about that game plan. 
BETHANIE MATTEK‑SANDS:   Yeah, that's actually what I was trying to do.   I mean, she likes to play aggressive and she likes that run‑around forehand and she wants to be dictating the points.   I really went out there trying to be the first one to do that.
You know, I was playing aggressive.   I was going to throw in slices and throw in some serve and volleys, and really play aggressive and work my way to the net.
That's grass court tennis, but that's how I play on all the surfaces.   That's how I played on clay and it's how I play here.
I felt like I was able to dictate the points a lot today and really make her feel rushed.   That's what I had to do, you know, to beat her, because otherwise, you know, she can clip a few and hit a few winners.   It changes pretty quick.

Q.   You played in qualifying last week.   The doubles.   How comfortable are you feeling on grass?   Do you feel that helped you out there today?
BETHANIE MATTEK‑SANDS:   First of all, I think if you can play at Roehamton, you can play anywhere (laughter). Some of those bounces are shocking.
But, no, I mean, I have got what, now six matches on grass. I missed last year Wimbledon, so I haven't played on grass for a while. 
When I went back to Phoenix actually after Paris, I was able to hit on a grass court there, as well.   You know, I feel really comfortable on it.
I think it suits my game.   You know, I play aggressive.   I like to come to net.   I feel like me and the grass are one right now (smiling).   Feeling good.

Q.   Is there extra satisfaction coming through quallies?   You haven't lost a set in singles in five matches.   You're not playing players that, you know, are walkovers by any means. 
BETHANIE MATTEK‑SANDS:   Yeah, no, you can't underestimate the players that are coming out of these quallies matches.   There are some players, like myself, who has dropped from the rankings or maybe got hurt and had to play quallies.
I know there are a couple of qualifiers still in, still playing.   Sometimes getting those couple of matches under your belt really helps the confidence, and you play, especially your first round, you can play someone who is starting off a little cold.
No, I mean, feeling playing Alison first round and Ana second round, I feel there are two great matches, two great players that are playing with a lot of confidence.   I'll take them.

Q.   You seem like a very colorful character.   What do you make of the strict all‑white policy at Wimbledon?
BETHANIE MATTEK‑SANDS:   I think it's gotten a little excessive.   I missed last year.   I actually packed in my bag some of the skirts with the colored underwear and obviously that's a no‑go this year.   I'm upset about that. 
I think the sweatbands and headbands you could wear the colors before, I thought that looked cool.
It was funny, because I was actually Googling some players like when John McEnroe played, Arthur Ashe, they had color everywhere.   They had color on their sleeves, big stripes, they were coming out in colored jackets.   So I feel it's actually gotten stricter.
So, you know, I think it's a little much when, you know, I think who was it, Ivo Karlovic had to paint a little bit of his shoe white.   That's a little much.

Q.   Roger said it was ridiculous. 
BETHANIE MATTEK‑SANDS:   I will agree with Roger.   I'll jump on the boat with Roger.

Q.   You think it's gone to far?
BETHANIE MATTEK‑SANDS:   I think a little bit.   I mean, I think for the most part everybody that has come here has been pretty much all white, I mean, more than 95%, I would say, and they are still kind of picking at people for a certain stripe.
I think Nike had a yellow band around the sports bra underneath the shirt that wasn't allowed.   It was like, I don't know, I think that's a little much.

Q.   What would you wear if you could?
BETHANIE MATTEK‑SANDS:   If I could?   Well, I think I said this before, I didn't even wear white in my wedding, so not white (laughter).

Q.   Can we get down to the most important issue before us?   Can you talk about you are the making of your wonderful skull and bones video?   Was it true that your cape did have 12% white?
BETHANIE MATTEK‑SANDS:   I thought it was 12% white.   Yeah, I think it was good. 
That video was a lot of fun.   We actually did it with Lucie and her coach.   He does a lot of video editing, so he's really good at all that stuff.   We have a couple more planned.   We did a few at the French Open, but it's actually something that's kind of a lot of fun.

Q.   Do you think that's the kind of control thing, you know, We're Wimbledon and you're not, going all out on us?
BETHANIE MATTEK‑SANDS:   I think it's just been the rule forever, so what are you going to say? 
Again, I'll jump on the boat with Roger and say it's a little much.

Q.   As somebody who takes fashion into consideration, is it hard to come up with something that stands out at Wimbledon?
BETHANIE MATTEK‑SANDS:   It is.   I mean, you can't even wear off‑white or cream.   I was going to joke about that.   I was like, man, if you wash your whites too many times, they will be illegal (laughter). Better be washing it in cold water. 

Q.   High socks maybe and a tank top is one way to... 
BETHANIE MATTEK‑SANDS:   Yeah, I mean, I had a little mesh on my shirt today.   I have like I think one legal pair of shorts that is on rotation hopefully in cold water.   One skirt I think that's legal. 
But, yeah, it is tough to kind of be creative here at Wimbledon. 
But, you know, I keep the high socks going and hopefully have some other stuff at the bottom of my bag right now.

Q.   The question begs, what did you wear at your wedding if not white?
BETHANIE MATTEK‑SANDS:   At my wedding?   No, I actually wore a black dress.   Yeah, I wore a black wedding dress, which was pretty cool.   Actually, when I went shopping for it, they wanted me to try some stuff on, and I said, Look, I'm not going to wear anything white, off‑white, cream, light pink, I said, so just don't even hand me those.
They're like, Well, we have this black evening gown. 
I'm like, Perfect. 
First one I tried and got that one.

Q.   As a veteran on the tour, what are your observations of Serena's not only staying power, but excelling power at this age where she has a shot at a Grand Slam?
BETHANIE MATTEK‑SANDS:   I think it's amazing.   I think a lot of players on the WTA, I think you have seen kind of the age group get older.   Obviously you still have your young guns coming up and playing well.   But I think a lot of the veterans are staying heathy, enjoying their time out there and able to play longer.
Serena looks stronger than ever, and, you know, I think what really keeps her in the game is her serve.   I mean, her serves, it's huge and hard to read.   She can pull it out whenever she wants.
She's just got a lot of firepower.   I think whether she was 20 or 40, she's got that power.   That's going to be something that every player has to deal with.

Q.   Your fabulous success in doubles this year, how has that affected you on the singles court?
BETHANIE MATTEK‑SANDS:   You know what, it's a lot of matches and a lot of confidence.   I mean, we have beaten a lot of players, me and Lucie this year in the doubles. 
I have always gained confidence from playing doubles.   I think some players actually do like to play because, you know, it's almost better than a practice, anyways.   You get those game points, holding, breaking, and all the pressure situations. You know, I get a lot of confidence from my dubs.

Q.   This is the 40th anniversary of when Arthur Ashe won the championship here.   All these years later, what does his legacy mean to you?
BETHANIE MATTEK‑SANDS:   Well, first of all, he was one of those guys that was wearing a colored jacket.   I'm going to say, I'll dedicate a couple of matches to him if I can wear a colored jacket that says USA on it.

Q.   When I talked to you before you went to Australia, you had just come out from your injury, and now you have two Grand Slams and playing well.   What is the secret?   What's going on?   Is everything just coming together?   Your husband said it's just in a good place right now. 
BETHANIE MATTEK‑SANDS:   Well, he's here so I can't talk any shit about him (laughter).

Q.   But you're playing your best tennis. 
BETHANIE MATTEK‑SANDS:   Yeah, you know what?   Feeling healthy is a big part of that.   I did struggle with that hip for even after.   My first surgery in 2008 there were issues for four years, and I think a lot of my other injuries kind of were related to that.   So it does feel really good to feel healthy and feel good out there.
You know, right now, I'm enjoying the moment.   I'm enjoying playing tennis.   You know, that's a difficult question, because you can't really answer that with one thing, what's the secret.   There is a lot of things that I think are a little bit different.   I think overall I'm just really enjoying myself and appreciating the moment.

Q.   What do you consider the keys of the match with Bencic?
BETHANIE MATTEK‑SANDS:   Is that who I play? 

Q.   Yes. 
BETHANIE MATTEK‑SANDS:   I haven't thought about it, honestly.   I actually didn't even know that's who I was playing.

Q.   It's been a pretty big day for American women so far.   Serena, you, Coco, Madison.   What does that say about the way the women are right now?
BETHANIE MATTEK‑SANDS:   It's great.   I think we had 16 players in the main draw this year, maybe more, including some doubles players.
But, no, a few years ago, I was being asked, What happened to USA tennis, and I said, Well, it comes and goes.   I think there were a lot of younger players that coming that showed promise.   Sure enough, I think we have a really strong contingent of American players and it's really good to see. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT