APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 8, 2014
Bethanie Mattek-Sands
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







M. KEYS/B. Mattek‑Sands
  3-2 (ret.)

Q.   Bethanie, bad luck tonight.   Obviously you've played a lot of matches qualifying through here.   Just tell us what's going on with your body at the moment. 
BETHANIE MATTEK‑SANDS:   I've obviously felt better.   I've been through my share of injuries.   You know, once you start compensating too much on the court other things start hurting. 
For me, I want to take care of my body.   It's not even just about Australian Open, it's about the rest of my year.
My biggest goal is to stay healthy.   I'm a huge competitor and it always hurts to have to withdraw, but I wish the best to Madison. 

Q.   Is it any of the recurring injuries the last couple years, or is it just new ones, wear and tear type things? 
BETHANIE MATTEK‑SANDS:   It's probably a mix of both.   Obviously I have played a lot of matches and I was coming off an injury from last year. 
But the knee actually that I had hurt at the end of last year is feeling good, so that injury is fine.
I just got to be careful.   I've probably injured every part of my body at some point in my career.   It's just I have to be smart about it.   I want to keep playing throughout this whole year. 

Q.   Injuries aside, obviously happy with your performance here the last week or so?
BETHANIE MATTEK‑SANDS:   Definitely.   I'm very happy with how I'm playing.   I felt I was improving every single day, and, you know, that's been my goal. 
I was playing my game.   Even tonight I felt like I was able to have a few good rallies, few good returns. 
Again, it wasn't meant to be.   I wish Madison the best.

Q.   And just lastly, a few days rest and treatment now before obviously trying to get ready for Melbourne?
BETHANIE MATTEK‑SANDS:   Definitely.   I'm taking a couple days completely off.   I'm going to take care the body and get treatment from the trainers and go from there. 
Really looking forward to Melbourne. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT