ROLAND GARROS
May 31, 2017
Bethanie Mattek-Sands
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
B. MATTEK-SANDS/P. Kvitova   
7-6, 7-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Talk a little bit about was it kind of an odd situation obviously with everything she's been through, going out there?  Must have felt something about that.  
BETHANIE MATTEK-SANDS: No, I saw Petra before the tournament started.  I gave her a big hug, you know, I was really happy to see her back, especially after everything that had happened.  You know, she's an inspiration, actually.  That's what I told her end of the match, too.  She not only came back from all of that, she came back playing well.   
We had a great match today.  I felt like I played well, she played well.  There were some great points.  You know, we're both competitors out on the court.  That's about it.   
But it's really good to see her back and playing well.  She's a great champion, so it's a really good win for me.   
 Q.  Talk about what you think you did well that made it a win for you.  
BETHANIE MATTEK-SANDS: You know what?  I stick to my game.  I say this after a lot of matches, but I play my game.  I play aggressive.  I was really going for my serve.  I know when she's feeling great she's hitting her returns clean, and, you know, she did that for a couple games in both sets.  You know, she was hitting some clean winners off some good serves.  That's kind of the Petra we know and love.   
You know, I just stuck with my game, played aggressive, came to net when I wanted to, mixed up a few dropshots here and there.  To me that's kind of fun tennis, creative tennis, and that's how I like playing.  I really enjoyed myself out there.   
 Q.  Do you feel like you tired her out with some of those dropshots?  
BETHANIE MATTEK-SANDS: I hope I did.  I mean, that would be ideal if you can get someone to run up for dropshots a few times and get them a little winded.   
You know, I was just focused on my game, you know, and just kind of staying in the moment and playing each point.   
 Q.  How tough is it?  Because you're one of the people who plays all three, singles, doubles, mixed.  
BETHANIE MATTEK-SANDS: You know what?  I'm a competitor.  I love playing matches.  You know, I joke with my coach, I'm like, Put me in, Coach.  No, you're in.  Like you signed up.  You actually have to go play (smiling).  You'll get fined if you don't show up.   
But I'll joke with him, Put me in, Coach.  That's why we practice.  That's why we train is for these matches and to play in the stadiums and hear the fans.  You know, I love it.  I really, you know, take each match one point at a time.   
But, you know, put me on the court.   
 Q.  What makes the French Open special for you?  
BETHANIE MATTEK-SANDS: Oh, man.  I think there is a lot of reasons why I love it here at Roland Garros.  Obviously I've won the doubles and the mixed doubles.  But, you know, it's something about the grounds and the stadiums, the fans here.   
You know, there has been years where it's been freezing and then this year it's been hot.  You just see the fans coming out and supporting their favorite players.  They cheer for good tennis.  I really just think it's about the environment and Paris.  What can I say?  I love Paris.  I've probably stayed in a different area every time I have been here.  So I feel like I've gotten to know my way around the city, and still every year I feel like I find new streets, new shops, new restaurants.  I love it here.   
 Q.  Do you have a favorite area?  
BETHANIE MATTEK-SANDS: I like the Marais district, really love going there.  And I have stayed there a few times.  But, I mean, I feel like every year I find a new street that I fall in love with.   
 Q.  So when you're at tournaments like this you don't opt to stay?  A lot of people are here in the neighborhood.  
BETHANIE MATTEK-SANDS: I'm pretty close this year.  But, no, I have stayed everywhere pretty much all the years I have been playing this event.   
 Q.  What's the balance between singles and doubles priority-wise, and how much has that changed over the years?  
BETHANIE MATTEK-SANDS: You know what?  I approach both pretty much the same.  I mean, obviously there is different tactics; in one of them you have a buddy out there with you.  But, you know, they are matches.  I was just telling her I'm a competitor.  You know, this is what we train for is for match day, whether singles, doubles, mixed doubles.  I love being out there.  I love competing.   
You know, I just joke with my coach, I'm like, Just put me out there, Coach.  We were laughing because he's like, No, you have to go out there, actually, you're going to be fined if you don't.  No, put me in.  I want this chance.   
 Q.  But I mean, tennis players are so inculcated with the idea that it's individual and there is such a big emphasis on singles.  In your heart, has your love of doubles changed over the years or been constant?  
BETHANIE MATTEK-SANDS: I feel like it's been pretty constant.  You know, they are two different categories.  One you have a buddy on the court with you.  The other, you're out there on your own.   
I think each offers its own uniqueness of why we love to play.  But it's actually a good question why singles is always kind of in the forefront.  I mean, doubles is such a great game.  There is a lot of strategy, tactics.  So much goes into how the team works together, because it's not always the best players.  It's sometimes the best team.  I feel like there are so many different facets in doubles that make it really interesting.   
I'm curious why it's not followed more.   
 Q.  As a wife, I'm just wondering when you see other players that are sort of having babies, how does that feel for you, the biological clock and all that?  How does that affect you?  
BETHANIE MATTEK-SANDS: No, you know, I'm so happy -- I actually got to talk to Vika in the locker room I think yesterday for a long time.  Then obviously I know Serena is in Paris here.   
But you know what?  I'm taking it kind of one day at a time.  I mean, it will happen when it happens.  I'm not trying right now, if that was the question.  It's not in the deck of cards (smiling).   
But obviously I'm happily married, and it's something that we have talked about and is in our future.   
 Q.  Obviously it's going to come after your career finishes, it sounds like?  
BETHANIE MATTEK-SANDS: I think so.  You know, that was kind of a discussion Justin and I had.  But, you know, as of right now I kind of feel like it would be a different part of my life, and I'd like to maybe close this chapter and start a new chapter.   
But, you know, at the same time, you see all the girls kind of coming back afterwards.  So it's not that it's impossible.  But, you know, if you had to, you know, ask me really right now, I think it would be a new chapter for me.   
 Q.  Don't imagine having a kid and trying to come back after that?  
BETHANIE MATTEK-SANDS: Not yet.  I haven't even imagined having a kid yet.  It's actually kind of one of my biggest fears, but that's okay (smiling).   
 Q.  What do you make of Kvitova's comeback?  
BETHANIE MATTEK-SANDS: Amazing.  It's really inspiring.  I talked to her a little bit before tournament started.  It's great to see her back.  She's a nice person off the court, obviously a great tennis player, a champion.  I told her again after the match when we shook hands and hugged that it was really inspiring to see her back and playing such good tennis after not competing for that many months and dealing with, you know, kind of the mental and emotional things that I'm sure she's gone through, it was great to see her come back and be really competitive.   
 Q.  In terms of your singles career, you have had a lot of big wins at slams but not really one big deep run into a quarter or a WTA title, I think.  How do you sort of balance, knowing you're always dangerous but trying to string them together?  You have done this before, is what I'm saying, but the next step.  
BETHANIE MATTEK-SANDS: No, it's something that I have always believed in myself that walking on the court I always give myself a chance to win no matter who is across the net from me.   
You know, the consistency, you know, I think it comes down to the mental preparation.  That's something I think that I have been able to get with experience, and kind of learning about myself.  I really have taken tennis as a way to learn more about myself personally, just going outside of tennis and in life.   
You know what?  You can't control your opponent and how well they're playing.  All I can do right now is kind of be me.  That's really kind of been my motto here for a little while, if you will, is just play my game my way.  You know, really kind of let go of some expectations and just go for it.   
I think that's helped me play really well.   
 Q.  Expectations, are you satisfied with your singles results or do you wish you had made more runs?  On paper you have a strange pattern of trajectory.  
BETHANIE MATTEK-SANDS: I think everybody would answer the question saying they want to win everything.  You know, yeah, I'm not looking too much into the past.  I mean, I'm a big believer in, the only moment you have is right now.  Really grasping the present moment and making the most of it.   
So that's kind of where I am right now.  I mean, I had a great win today.  You know, it's not the first time, it's not the last time.   
You know, what are the decisions I'm going to make going forward and how I prepare myself, whether it's recovery, whether physical, mental, emotional, I mean, there are so many different things that go into getting ready for a tennis match, and I go in to win.  It's not always just that moment on the court.   
But that's the only moment you have.  You know what, I just go for it.  I think I'm believing in my game, and it doesn't matter what the score is.  Doesn't matter who I'm playing.  I have my game plan, and that's what I'm going out there with.   
 Q.  How would you describe your relationship with red clay?  
BETHANIE MATTEK-SANDS: Red clay, I love red clay.  We don't have any of it in the U.S., but, you know, I love it here.  I have had some great wins on it.  I feel comfortable on it.  I feel comfortable sliding, which I know some Americans say they don't.   
But I do.  I love Paris, anyways, but I don't think any tournament is better as far as red clay goes than Roland Garros.   
 Q.  You play Sam Stosur next.  Thoughts on that.  
BETHANIE MATTEK-SANDS: Oh, I didn't know.  So you're telling me now.   
Yeah, I'll have to -- obviously I know her well.  She's another player that's played a good amount of years with me.  So I'll have to talk to my coach about it and kind of go over a game plan, but I think we both know each other.  How many times have we played each other?  I'd have to look back in the archives.   
She's playing great right now.  She's coming off a win in, was it Strasbourg?  So she's feeling confident on the red clay.  Hits a big heavy ball.  I'll be ready for it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT