LPGA STATE FARM CLASSIC
August 30, 2007
Kate Golden
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:  2001 State Farm Classic Champion, and you're one stroke off the lead right now, you want to talk about your round?   
 KATE GOLDEN:  Yeah, I was just really steady today.  Had four birdies and one bogey and missed number ten, got up and down for par.  Missed number 17, and hit my chip shot a little too far by and missed the one coming back.   
 But just a steady round.  I was hitting a lot of fairways, lot of greens and hit a few really, really close and that was nice.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Can we go over your birdies and bogies.  I have your first birdie at hole 3.   
 KATE GOLDEN:  Right, birdied number 3.  Hit it into about three feet, made that one.   
 THE MODERATOR:  From how far?   
 KATE GOLDEN:  About three feet.   
 THE MODERATOR:  How far were you for that?   
 KATE GOLDEN:  I have no clue.  I don't remember that stuff (laughing).  I don't remember what number 3 looks like.  I was just kind of playing.  As I said, got a good up-and-down on ten and birdied 11.  I hit another one in there about three feet.  And made that.  I hit, I believe I had an 8-iron in there.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Do you remember how far out you were on that?   
 KATE GOLDEN:  I believe it was about 156, but we were down wind.  Number 14, made a two, and that one I hit in, I hit a 5-iron.  I don't remember exactly how far that was playing today.  I know it was pretty long.   
 But I was trying to hit a 5-iron just really low landed at the front of the green.  But the guys said it took a hop and that it had a chance of going in, but it was about two inches away from the hole.   
 And number 16, the par 5, missed the green right and hit a great chip shot up there about three, four feet and made that one for birdie.   
 THE MODERATOR:  How far out was the chip shot?   
 KATE GOLDEN:  Maybe 25, 30 yards.   
 THE MODERATOR:  To three feet, you said?   
 KATE GOLDEN:  Right.  And 17 was my only bogey kind of got the shot off the tee.  I was hitting it a little toey and a little lander out there.  And hit my chip shot too hard and missed the putt coming back.   
 But other than that it was a steady round, hitting a lot of fairways and greens and lot of two-putts.   
 THE MODERATOR:  How far was that chip from 17?  Probably about 25 yards to, how close did you say?   
 KATE GOLDEN:  Probably hit that about ten feet by.   
 THE MODERATOR:  And that was a two putt?  Okay.  Questions for Kate.   
  
  Q.  Can you compare the play at the Rail?   
 KATE GOLDEN:  I don't know how much rain y'all have had or anything, but it seems to be drying up a little bit.  The fairways are hard and fast, And probably getting harder and faster for the afternoon rounds.   
 I know they've been syringing the greens and stuff so they're soft and holding, which is what I like.  I like to, you know, be able to hit it out there and let it run a little ways and be able to fire at the pin.  So I like it.   
  
  Q.  (Inaudible)?   
 KATE GOLDEN:  Compared the Rail?  I like them both.  They're both really different.  The Rail is more of an old-school type golf course.  Kind of just, you know, let it fly and fire at the pins.  And, you know, I don't know how to explain this.   
 I like them both, because I like the kind of golf courses where you can hit a really hard drive off the tee or if you had to, you could fade it off the tee.  And this one is the same, you know, it's just a newer style golf course, and you can see it.  I don't know how to explain that to you, but I like them both.   
  
  Q.  For a couple of days a lot of people thought there would be a lot lower scores than what they are.  Is it mostly the wind that's maybe been the factor today?   
 KATE GOLDEN:  I think a little bit of the wind.  And like I said before, you can fire right at the pin, but if you miss them at all, like I missed my shot coming into 18 and landed probably ten yards short of the green, and it took a big hop almost to the back of the green.  So if you're missing them at all, they can bounce and roll and go all over.   
 But if you're hitting it really well, you can take it at the stick and know it will stop because the greens are so good.  So it's just, the wind is definitely affecting the ball.  So, it depends on if you're firing at the stick or not.   
  
  Q.  I didn't hear you talk about number 1 today.  Did you par that or did a par 5?   
 KATE GOLDEN:  Yes, I parred on 1.   
  
  Q.  I saw Sophie, I think Sophie Gustafson made it in two and Laura of course.  But into the wind is pretty tough?   
 KATE GOLDEN:  Yeah, we were into the wind.  I hit a good drive, but I think my second shot, I laid back with a 5-iron so I'd have a full shot in there.  Because if you hit down too close and being the first hole of the day, you're not sure how the greens are reacting and all of that.   
 So I wanted to have a full shot in and actually landed one about three, four paces short of the pin and it spun back ten.  So I had a pretty long putt on my first hole.  And that is kind of when you know, okay, you can go right at it, and they will stop.   
  
  Q.  As these conditions continue, what do you think it will take to win this?   
 KATE GOLDEN:  My guess, I was talking with Dr. Eric Constance the other day, and he's a member here, and my guess was 18.  But I'm going to reevaluate, see if we get wind in the next few days.  Because the wind really affects the balls and as firm as the fairways and around the greens are getting, it will be tough unless you're really firing at the pin.  And that is kind of tough to do in the wind.   
  
  Q.  Well, in the prevailing wind here is usually out of the south.  Today -- just, I don't know how many holes play downwind and upwind depending.  But with that normal prevailing wind, is it just the two directions, or is this a lot different course depending on the direction?   
 KATE GOLDEN:  For me, I had played probably three or four rounds on this course prior to this week, just doing ladies days and things like that from when I won over at the Rail.  And I didn't really pay much attention to prevailing winds and stuff.  And I don't know if the girls have done that.  So we really don't know any different at this point.  So when it switches, we'll find out.   
  
  Q.  Is this one of your better starts this year?   
 KATE GOLDEN:  Definitely.  I had a bad year last year, and my teacher passed away, Dick Harmon in February, in kind of a freaky thing.  And kind of been searching for stuff.  And I've worked with Charlie Epps down in Houston, and Craig Harmon, Dick's brother a little bit, but nobody really consistently.  And just kind of been searching.   
 I played really well up in New Jersey at the Shop Rite event and a couple of others, which has gotten me reshovelled or whatever, and now I'm in for the end of the year.   
 But this is definitely one of the most -- my second best start if not my best start.  I don't know what I shot those first rounds.   
  
  Q.  What has turned around for you?   
 KATE GOLDEN:  For me, it's more of a feel.  Like sometimes I hit it well when I feel like I'm swinging left.  Other times I feel I hit it well when I'm really swinging right.  And it just kind of depends on the day.   
 Today was one of those days where I felt like I was going to hit it out on the road, and it was perfect.   
 You know, I'd hit this nice draw and it would run forever.  And when you get it, when you're hitting it solid, you just kind of keep doing what you're doing and try not to think about it, so.   
  
  Q.  Who are you staying with, are you staying in housing or are you staying in hotel?   
 KATE GOLDEN:  I thought I was going to have my dog with me, so I'm at the Staybridge Suites, but she's not here this week.   
  
  Q.  This is such a major switch for local people here.  This is a total opposite side of Springfield.  I mean, are there some places, new places, new restaurants or anything that you're going to this week or anything like that?  Or do you even have time?   
 KATE GOLDEN:  Still Saputo's.   
  
  Q.  Some things don't change?   
 KATE GOLDEN:  Some things don't change.  That parmesan filet over there will knock your socks offer (laughing).   
  
  Q.  Is there anything special about winning the first tournament at a new venue?   
 KATE GOLDEN:  I think so.  I mean, yeah, it's like it's not really like a first year event, but, yeah, I mean, it's special.  This has been such a long standing tournament and have it moved, everything's kind of - it's the same tournament, but it's new.   
 I mean, yeah, everybody would love to win it, whether it was at the Rail or here or whatever.  But I mean, it's a special event just because it has been around so long.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT