BANK OF MONTREAL CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN
August 15, 2002
Kate Golden
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








NEAL REID:  All right.  Well great playing today. 

KATE GOLDEN:  Thank you. 
NEAL REID:  Could we go over your scorecard real 
quick  before we take questions. 

KATE GOLDEN:  I started on number 10.  And I birdied 
number 10.  Hit it in about five feet or so and made that one 
for birdie.  I hit a 7-iron in there. 

And 11, the par-5, parred that one.  I actually missed the 
green left and got up-and-down there for par. 

12, I made a par.  Just hit the green, two putts from about 
20 feet or so. 

13 I birdied from about, oh, eight feet.  I hit -- I can't 
remember.  I think it was a 7-iron. 

18 -- I parred everything else on the back side.  18 I 
bogeyed.  I hit in the left rough and I couldn't quite make it to 
the green.  So I hit a sand wedge out.  And hit another 60 
degree wedge in there pretty close about 8, 10 feet.  And at 
least gave myself a chance for par.  And it just didn't break 
as much as I thought so I missed that and made bogey on 
18. 

Turned around and made a really good birdie on one.  I 
had a 5-iron in there.  Actually didn't catch my driver quite so 
great.  And ended up making a good birdie there. 

Just parred the rest of the way through until number 8.  And 
hit a good 7-iron in on 8 to about 8 feet and made that for 
birdie. 
And then hit driver, 3-wood into 18 and just caught the front 
of the green and made a bomb.  I was about 23 paces to 
the hole.  So that's about 66 feet.  It was a good one. 
NEAL REID:  How far was your birdie putt on 
one?

KATE GOLDEN:  On one, about 10, 12 feet or so. 
NEAL REID:  You say that's the longest putt you made 
in a long time?

KATE GOLDEN:  Yeah. 
NEAL REID:  So you must have felt pretty good with your 
day then.

KATE GOLDEN:  Yeah, I do.  Actually, I didn't hit it very well 
Monday, Tuesday or Wednesday.  And was a little 
concerned about today, but it all kind of came together at 
the right time.  So. 
NEAL REID:  Questions? 
Q.  Talk to me about your last shot.  We take a picture 
of that shot. 

KATE GOLDEN:  Oh, you did. 
Q.  Yes. 

KATE GOLDEN:  Thank you.  The putt? 
Q.  Yeah. 

KATE GOLDEN:  Yeah, I looked at it from the back and it 
just didn't look like it was going to break very much.  And I 
actually pulled my book out and I had putted that in the 
practice round and I knew it was going to move left-to-right 
and I thought okay, just trust it and hit it out there, it will 
move.  And just got the, just the right line and just the right 
speed and it just went in dead center.  It just kind of fell 
right in.  Those are the ones that make you want to play 
again.  It was about 23 paces to the hole, so 66, 69 feet or 
so. 
Q.  (Inaudible.) 

KATE GOLDEN:  About five feet. 
Q.  Right-to-left? 

KATE GOLDEN:  Left-to-right. 
 Q.  A real positive way to finish off.  What does that do 
for setting up tomorrow's round for you? 

KATE GOLDEN:  Like I said, I didn't really hit it real well on 
Monday, Tuesday or Wednesday here, and I hit it a lot better 
today.  I still hit a few shots that weren't so great.  But I 
managed to still make pars or 18 was really my only bogey.  
And I just hit a terrible drive there.  And at least I still had a 
chance to make par.  So I'm pleased with the way I hit it and 
I just hope I can keep it up for four days.  Because it's kind 
of been a struggle the last few weeks.  I haven't really 
struck the ball very well. 
Q.  (Inaudible.) 

KATE GOLDEN:  Probably I think earlier this year maybe I 
was in the media room.  And then last year a couple times.  
It's four days though.  So. 
Q.  Could you talk about your season, how it's been 
going. 

KATE GOLDEN:  It's been actually pretty well, going pretty 
well.  I just kind of play up-and-down.  That's just my game.  
I've been working on being more consistent.  I tend to plug 
along and have a couple of really, really good weeks.  And I 
went over to Evian earlier in the year and had a really good 
Sunday and moved up the leaderboard pretty well.  And 
then kind of was tooling along, making cuts, not playing 
really well and then finished second in Atlantic City, almost 
won there.  And had a little struggle coming in.  And, but for 
the most part that's just kind of how I play.  I would like to be 
really consistent and finish top-10 every week, but you just 
can't always get what you want.  Maybe I'll try the casino. 

NEAL REID:  No more questions?

KATE GOLDEN:  Thank, you guys. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT