NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 17, 2008
Byron Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  How did you feel about playing Chris down the stretch?  Did you play favorites or was he just the guy you wanted to have down there? 
 BYRON SCOTT:  To be honest with you, I looked at Allen and a couple other players with four or five minutes left, and they told me I was crazy, leave him in there.  And it was great that those guys saw that those guys were doing a pretty good job.  Made a heck of a comeback.  They were knocking down shots, so they just felt it was a good time for them to stay in there and try to win the game, since they got us into that position.  And unfortunately, we left Ray Allen open a couple of times too many. 

 Q.  With all the sentiment for Chris to win the MVP, he seemed to be going away from it, if anything? 
 BYRON SCOTT:  You know what, Chris just wants to win.  It's not in his nature to try to take over, especially on this stage right now.  I think he's more accustomed to doing it with his team.  But again, being this is his first time making the All-Star team, he tried to defer to other players, you know, Dirk and Tim and those guys, Amare. 
 But I still thought he played an outstanding game, did a heck of a job.  And those guys, you know, they came back in that fourth quarter and gave us a great effort. 

 Q.  I know you've done this before, but give us your thoughts, I guess, of what were some of the better moments this weekend in New Orleans, how was New Orleans part of this event? 
 BYRON SCOTT:  Well, for me, one of the better moments was Saturday afternoon.  We went to one of the charter schools to do some painting and just to show the kids.  We had a great bunch of guys with us.  We had big Yao Ming, you know, Joe Johnson and those guys.  And that to me was the highlight for me.  Just to see those kids light up when they saw those guys come in the door.  And those guys putting everything to the side to really help the community, it was fantastic. 
 So basketball is always like the top, the icing on the cake for this weekend.  I thought what the All-Stars did this weekend as far as helping the communities and going out and about and building courts and things like that, was the biggest thing this whole weekend. 

 Q.  You had a chance to coach the best bigs in the game and yet in the end of the game when LeBron had the ball in mid-court, like everybody knew he was going to go all the way.  What are your thoughts when you have these great players and still you cannot stop that guy? 
 BYRON SCOTT:  You know what, there's one player we really, really missed today, and that was Kobe.  You know, just like LeBron and some of these other guys, they love that challenge.  Obviously, Kobe would have loved to have played.  But you know what, these guys are the best at what they do.  And LeBron is a freight train when he goes to that basket.  He's so big and so strong, and so quick and powerful.  It's hard to stop him when he gets the momentum going like that. 
 I thought we did a pretty good job of trying to contain him.  When he's making outside shots as well, he poses a different problem, because now you have to try to get up on him, and then he can really do what he does well, which is take it to the basket. 

 Q.  Were you surprised with about a minute or so left that they called the offensive foul on Chris on his home court like that? 
 BYRON SCOTT:  I was shocked.  I wasn't surprised, I was shocked.  I don't know what the exact score was at the time, I think we were up two or it was a tie game.  But that's a big call, especially in an All-Star Game.  So, you know, I guess he obviously felt that Chris blocked him, offensive foul.  But it was a big call at that particular time. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT