U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 16, 2016
Tyler Raber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Talk about being the last guy, the last threesome to go and not even hitting a tee ball.  
TYLER RABER: Yeah, looking at the forecast all day, it kind of looked like it was going to be that way, but you know you have to stay prepared.  So got here at noon, and they had their first rain delay.   
Then after that, I decided to get out there and at least practice on the off chance that I wouldn't get to play today, I wanted to at least be able to hit some balls so I wouldn't show up tomorrow kind of cold.   
Another rain delay while I was out there practicing.  That's the way it goes, you know.  But I kind of like the idea of being able to just start fresh tomorrow.  I'm not picking up where I left off or anything.  I'm just kind of starting with a clean slate.  So I kind of like that.   
 Q.  That slate is 36 holes long, though.  
TYLER RABER: It might be a 36-hole day.  I have no idea if we'll be able to get all 36 in.  I don't know what the tee times are looking like.  Yeah, if I'm playing 36 tomorrow, I'm playing 36.  It will be a long day, but I had to do 36 for the sectional to get here.  I'll just try to draw on that experience and go from there.   
 Q.  Last question.  A day as long as it is, plus the pressure, if you will, of a U.S. Open.  Does that have a significant impact on how you approach it?  
TYLER RABER: Not necessarily.  I mean, today I was just -- it was a lot of waiting.  I felt like I never really got into a flow or anything today.  I'm sure you start to feel some of that pressure when you're getting closer to your tee time and actually getting ready to play.   
Today I was technically never within 2 1/2 hours of my tee time with the way the delays worked out.  So I never really got into like full on warmup mode or starting to focus and all that stuff.   
So today was almost more relaxed really than sort of pressure packed, but obviously a much different atmosphere tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT