ROLAND GARROS
October 2, 2020
Hugo Gaston
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








H. GASTON/S. Wawrinka
2-6, 6-3, 6-3, 4-6, 6-0
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
Q. You looked pretty stunned at the end.  Can you try to explain what that felt like, how much that match meant to you.
HUGO GASTON:   It's difficult to explain.  It's fantastic.  It was a great match.  I'm very happy today really.
Q. How could you describe this moment in Paris, in Roland Garros?
HUGO GASTON:   For me to play in Paris, it's fantastic.  I try to take the pleasure every minute, every time, and today I won.  I'm so happy about the win today, of course.
Q. Could you tell us about your start in tennis, how you started playing tennis, maybe some of your early memories of Roland Garros.
HUGO GASTON:   Yeah, I start because my dad was president in tennis club, that's why.  After I love to play, I love the game, so I continue.  For me, the tennis, it's the game.
Now I play the French Open.  Before I always watching this in TV.  Today I can play in these courts, so it's amazing for me.
Q. You hadn't won a tour-level match before this week.  How do you explain you've managed to produce this level, you're now in the fourth round?
HUGO GASTON:   I try to stay focus in my game.  I think it's very important for me.  I'm really cool outside of the court.  I try to give my best in the court, and we will see the result.
Of course, for the moment it's amazing for me, it's a dream.  But I try to stay focus.  Now I'm going to my family and my coaches to celebrate a little bit (smiling).
Q. You must have watched Rafa a lot as a kid.  Were there other players who you maybe watched, who you loved watching, any matches in particular that got you involved in the sport?
HUGO GASTON:   Yeah, yeah, I try to watch every player.  Of course, when Kyrgios plays, it's different.  It's not the same game than Rafa.  It's nice to watching him.  It's good for the tennis I think.
Me, I try to stay focus in my game.  About the other player, I try to watch them little bit sometimes.
Q. You're taking on Dominic Thiem next.  How do you feel about that one?
HUGO GASTON:   I'm very happy to play against Dominic.  He's a fantastic player a great fighter.  It's a tough match for sure, but I try to take a pleasure in court and we will see.
Q. How did you feel going into the match, your belief?  Just your confidence level going into such a match against a champion, like, Stan.
HUGO GASTON:   Yeah, I try to go in the court to believe I can win this match, with my coaches.  I know it's possible.  It's difficult.  But when I'm going in the court, for sure I try to win the match because I want to play tennis and more games, more matches.
For me, it's very important to going in the court with the winning in the head.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT