ROSE BOWL GAME PRESENTED BY VIZIO: TCU v WISCONSIN
December 29, 2010
Aaron Henry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Questions.   
  
  Q. How is the week going so far?  
 AARON HENRY: It's going well. It's exciting. A lot to take in. This L.A. life is different.   
  
  Q. How?  
 AARON HENRY: First of all, there's no snow on the ground. Second of all, it's like I'm meeting celebrities out of the ying-yang like crazy. It's pretty nice and the weather is nice.  
  
  Q. Who have you met?  
 AARON HENRY: The main one is Meagan Good. She's very popular in the African American community and she's gorgeous.   
  
  Q. Where did you see her?  
 AARON HENRY: Me and 10 of the guys went out the first night. She was at this club we were at, man. She's as good as advertised.   
  
  Q. Their offense has a lot of stuff. Can you talk about the complexity and how difficult that makes it for you?  
 AARON HENRY: For us on the back end, it's a whole lot more adjustments. I think during camp with our offense motion, doing all the other stuff, man, it definitely has prepared us just for the simple fact they do a lot of things. But at the end of the day, it's only a handful of plays. They'll give you a ton of formations, but they're only going to run a certain amount of plays out of those formations.   
 So the most important thing is it's going to boil down to us playing assignment football, man, reading our keys, tackling in the open field. Tackling is going to be key in this game.   
  
  Q. That helps having seen the Wisconsin stuff all year?   
 AARON HENRY: Oh, my gosh, tremendously, man. The quarterback at TCU and Scotty are very similar. This guy is probably a little more athletic. Andy Dalton is probably a little more athletic than Scotty. But as far as running goes, they're very similar.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 AARON HENRY: They do have some guys that can fly on their football team. I mean, I think as a core, as a core, this is probably for the most part going to be from one to five the best wide receiver core that we probably have faced all year. They have real good speed out on the edges. There are a number of teams we played against this year that had good speed as well.   
 It's going to get down to us tackling in the open field as well. When they get the ball, they're going to try to get it down on the edge, try to get those guys the ball in open space. It's going to be up to us. That's what we've basketball practicing all week, doing what we've been doing all season, you know what I'm saying, to be able to play big in this game.   
  
  Q. (Question regarding Kerley.)   
 AARON HENRY: This guy can change the game in an instant. It's our job to recognize him every play of every down, you know what I'm saying. He's their play-maker. I'm not saying any of those other guys can't make plays, but he can change the game, whether it's on punt return, kickoff return or even on offense catching a two-yard throw and taking it for 70 or 80.   
  
  Q. (Question regarding special teams.)   
 AARON HENRY: No, I don't play on any special teams. Hopefully everybody does their job and does it very, very well and I won't have to get on any special teams. So far this year I think we've been doing a pretty good job of that.  
  
  Q. You say it comes down to tackling. How do you think you're tackling?  
 AARON HENRY: I think we've gotten better throughout the season. Early on, I think we struggled, you know what I'm saying. Our main thing is to have all 11 guys fly to the ball. Yes, tackles are going to be missed. That's just part of the game. If we have guys flying to the ball, guys are eager, I think we're doing a great job tackling. And we have tackling groups, of course, just for the simple fact those guys are a little bit smaller but a lot quicker.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 AARON HENRY: Yes, that does tell me a lot. I want to say, if I'm not mistaken, they probably have more rushing yards as a team than us or some equivalent of that. That lets me know it's a good-balanced football team. They can throw it, they can run it. They do pretty much what they do. They don't hide what they do. They're going to go out there and do it and they're going to keep it at that. It's going to be up to us to stop them.   
  
  Q. How does it feel to be in the Rose Bowl, this whole experience?  
 AARON HENRY: Man, this is a tremendous experience. I'm still trying to take it all in, man.   
 For me, I was talking to some of my teammates the other day. To me, it is the Rose Bowl. I'm looking at it as the Rose Bowl outside of the stadium. It's the Rose Bowl. I mean, it's L.A. I'm having a great time.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT