ROGERS CUP PRESENTED BY NATIONAL BANK
July 30, 2008
Aleksandra Wozniak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  J. JANKOVIC/A. Wozniak
6-0, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. After that first set, which was obviously difficult for you, to be able to compete in the second set, not just kind of give up, what does that tell you about where you're at right now?
 ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK: Yeah, well, I think the second set, like I said in French, I think I had my chances. It was tight. I needed a little break, you know, to win my serve. 
 But I think obviously she played a great match today. You know, I'm not used to play that late. But, I mean, obviously I go forward from here and keep my head up and just look to the future, to keep winning and having great tournaments. 

 Q. Do you think in prior years or earlier in your career you would have been able to fight back in that second set after having lost 6-Love in the first?
 ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK: Well, yeah, I kept fighting. I did my best I could tonight. Every day's a new day and you do what you can with what you have on that day, how you're feeling and everything. I think I really fought as hard as I could with the energy I had tonight, yeah. 

 Q. The other night was such a high, the crowd was with you. The first set started and finished... 
 ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK: I really think she didn't do any mistakes. She played so clean the first set and went on so fast. I did some errors. I didn't step up to the right short balls when I had the opportunity. In the second set, I would step up to her short balls and be more aggressive, be more patient, use more tactic in the second set. 
 I think it was tough a little bit to see the ball because I'm not used to play that late, you know, at night. But then I kind of figured it out in the second set. 

 Q. Do you take it as an encouraging thing you could get your head together for the second set?
 ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK: Yeah, I had a lot of matches where I came back and I did so well lately. I'm going to be top 40 next week. So I'm just really satisfied, yeah. Even though I lost to the number second in the world. Soon she'll be No. 1, yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT