ROGERS CUP PRESENTED BY NATIONAL BANK
July 29, 2008
Aleksandra Wozniak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  A. WOZNIAK/Y. Chan  
6-2, 1-6, 7-5  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions.   
  
  Q. What was it like for you tonight playing in front of the hometown great?  
 ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK: It was so great. It was so special. I haven't been playing in front of such a big crowd in so long. I mean, it was wonderful. They gave me so much energy in the match. Definitely the win goes to them, you know.   
  
  Q. What happened in the second set?  
 ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK: I think she started playing much more aggressive and really deep and I couldn't find the rhythm because I thought she would start the match like this right from the first set.   
 But obviously she did great in the second set. Then in the third set, I took a lead at 4-2 and it really got tight and close in the points, but I kept fighting.   
  
  Q. What did you tell yourself between the second and third to turn your game around?  
 ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK: Yeah, try to be more aggressive, try to focus. Even the loud clapping from everyone. Yeah, you need to fight at those key moments, you know, the important points.   
  
  Q. Playing Jankovic tomorrow, what's the feeling?   
 ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK: I mean, it's a great opportunity for me to play the second in the world. That's gonna be my second time. I feel I have more experience. I hope tomorrow it's going to be a better match, that I'll be more aggressive and try to focus, try to stay in the moment the whole match, yeah.   
  
  Q. How does it make you feel that she was struggling physically late in the third set?   
 ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK: Definitely, you know, when it's so tight, you've got to do the best that you can, try to run each ball and just play, you know, aggressive and even harder in the corners to win over your opponent when you see her struggling, you know.   
  
  Q. What did you learn from your win at Stanford that is helping you here?  
 ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK: You know, to deal with the emotions and to just whoever you face, like today she was 71 in the world, you know, she's a great player and she's out there for a reason. And you just got to bring your best on the court and stay focused and play your best tennis to win, you know.   
  
  Q. Did you panic a little bit in the second set?  
 ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK: No. I think it went so fast that I didn't have time to react really 'cause she was playing so good. And at the end, in the second set, I find my rhythm and I could read more her shots, her deep shots, more powerful.   
 Then in the third set I got like a 4-2 lead, so I felt like I had more control.   
  
  Q. As you move into the top 50 now, do you find the changes are about improved physical play, strokes, or mentally being tough?  
 ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK: Mentally I've been tougher than in the past. I gained more experience how to play the best players in the top 30 and top 50. The way just how I improved a lot, how you got to play on the court against those players, really aggressive tennis, because you cannot play defensive against them. They take advantage of the ball, you know.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT