ROGERS CUP PRESENTED BY AMERICAN EXPRESS
August 15, 2007
Aleksandra Wozniak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.   
  
  Q.  Just tell us what happened out there today?   
 ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK:  I had a lead at 4-1, 40-Love on her serve.  I think I started to rush more points and making more unforced errors, and she just took the control over that.   
  
  Q.  What went wrong with your game today?   
 ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK:  Just started like rushing, because I was up almost a 5-1 lead.  And I just started rushing, being a lot like taking the ball early and stuff.  And we had long rallies, and then she was making the last point count, you know.  So I was making mistakes.   
  
  Q.  Because it's here in Canada, how disappointing is it for you to go out like this?   
 ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK:  I mean, there are so many tournaments that there's like Ana Ivanovic just lost.  I'm sure she's so tired after winning a tournament last week.  So I think it's no biggy.  I'm from Canada, but it's no big deal because I have ten more tournaments come to go the end of the year.   
  
  Q.  Not a big deal to lose in Canada?   
 ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK:  It's just another -- this is a tournament that I take just like any other tournament.  Especially I love playing in Canada because I live in Montreal, so it's special, but it's not the end of the world.   
 Especially it is crucial this year, because it's only my second year on tour, so I need to stay positive and look to keep improving my ranking.   
  
  Q.  What do young players like yourself need to do to get better and improve and take the next step?   
 ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK:  This is -- I'm 19, and what I need to do is last year as my first year I was playing only Challengers.  Mostly just to basically improve my rankings so I can enter bigger tournaments.  And this year I'm entering bigger tournaments.  It's my first year being in a major of all Grand Slams, so I'm taking advantage of it to improve my ranking and get as many points as I can so I can get higher.   
  
  Q.  But is there something Tennis Canada could do to help you get to that next level?   
 ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK:  Tennis Canada is making a big camp in September, and starting in Montreal and they're going to try to take new coaches to help us improve physically and in tennis.  So they're making like -- it's going to be similar to in France Academy.   
  
  Q.  How will that help young tennis players having this academy in Montreal and Toronto?   
 ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK:  It's going to help us because we're going to be grouped together.  We're going to have lot of hitting partners, lot of coaches to give us different advice, different opinions, and to apply to see what needs to be more improved.   
 So I train with my dad in Montreal, and I travel with Bill.  So probably that won't change, I'll just have different feedbacks.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT