ROGERS CUP PRESENTED BY AMERICAN EXPRESS
August 14, 2007
Aleksandra Wozniak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  Pleased with your match today? 
 ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK:  Yeah, I'm happy with my match today.  She couldn't finish the match, she got injured during the match, her knee, I guess.  I think her left knee. 

 Q.  Oh, it was the knee? 
 ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK:  Well, I saw her she was taped during the match, and then she got another tape, they taped her knee this time. 

 Q.  I was there at the end of the first set, and you came back nicely from 4-3, you played pretty well.  You must be pleased with that. 
 ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK:  Yeah, I kind of started slow, I thought.  And then I accelerated the game, and then I started quickly in the second set also, and it was going much easier after. 

 Q.  How much stronger is your game today than it was earlier in the year?  It seems that you're building a bit of momentum right now? 
 ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK:  Yeah, I feel I've been doing a lot of endurance, because you need to play day-after-day matches.  Like if you have a big win you don't want to be tired the next day.  So I've done a lot of physical.  Physically I'm stronger and I'm playing more tournaments.  I feel comfortable out there. 

 Q.  Looks like three women, three Canadian women are going to get through to the next round, how do you feel about being one of those? 
 ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK:  That's awesome.  Hopefully one of us can do the same as Frank did last week.  That would be good. 

 Q.  How much inspiration are you drawing from Frank's performance last week and also in Indianapolis?  It's a good time to be a Canadian tennis player, I guess. 
 ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK:  Yeah, I had like him in the beginning of the year, I had a lot of close matches against top players, and I haven't been able to close them out and win them. 
 And I think my time's going to come soon.  Like I won my first round here.  For example, Frank had the same year as me, and he finally got his momentum in Indianapolis and then in Montreal going and winning those big matches against top players.  I think it's coming soon. 

 Q.  Speaking of top players.  You're playing the 20th ranked player in the world tomorrow.  What are you going to have to do to get by her tomorrow? 
 ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK:  Obviously, it's going to be a bit different match because she's a lefty.  I'm going to focus on my game and have a good game plan for tomorrow.  Like today, I prepared well mentally.  Just take one point at a time, and focus hard. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT