ROGERS CUP
August 15, 2005
Aleksandra Wozniak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  Seemed to be on the defensive for most of the match.  I was wondering if you thought you were able to play your game or the strategy you came in with?
 
ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK:  Yeah, before the match, well, I felt pretty good coming in.  During the match, I made a lot of errors, which really like I didn't play a great game.  She won the match because I made a lot of mistakes, and I can't really say that she played good.  That's why at the end of the match, they asked her, but she didn't know really what to answer.  But, yeah, I guess I was pretty tight in the match.  In the beginning of the match, I was okay, but then my forehand, backhand were a little bit shaky.  I mean, it's normal.  I just starting, too, on the Pro Tour.  For sure it's not going to be my first loss in the first round, that I going to lose before I get in.  I need to get used to playing the top players and get more experience.  I guess I just need to get in there.  
 
Q.  There were a bunch of Canadian fans in the top of the seats.  Was that at all a help?  It seemed like it could have been a distraction today. 
 
ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK:  Yeah, I think, well, could be helping.  But today wasn't really about anyone supporting me.  I think it was more about me because I couldn't really play my game with so many errors and feeling tight in the match.  It was hard a little bit to get a good rhythm.  
 
Q.  How do you use a match like today?  You're still young.  In terms of your preparation, long-term goals, how do you use this kind of experience? 
 
ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK:  Well, I think I just want to play more of these tournaments so I can get used to it with time, deal with everything, deal with the pressure.  That's what happens.  Like today I really wanted to win.  That's why I think I got really tight.  Yeah, I just need to play more of those big tournaments and play more often against those top 50 players.  Like she was ranked 25, so.  
 
Q.  Was your physical fitness a question?  She was running you left and right.  Was that at all a concern? 
 
ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK:  Yeah, my -- I wasn't playing really aggressive.  I think I was always defensive, and she was always moving in and taking the ball early.  My balls were pretty short.  They were not aggressive enough and deep.  With me being tight, it didn't help.  
 
Q.  What is next for you?  Where do you go from here? 
 
ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK:  I'm going to train -- I'm starting now as a professional player to play more challengers.  So from September I'm going to play some challengers in the United States just to get my -- get some points so I can get my WTA ranking higher.  
 
Q.  Could you still compete in the Orange Bowl or any other junior tournaments?
 
ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK:  Yeah, but I decided that after the Wimbledon, that was my last junior tournament.  So now I'm as a pro.  But I could if I would want to.  
 
Q.  What was the qualifying process like for you, playing in the qualifiers?  How did you find that whole process? 
 
ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK:  I'm sorry.  Repeat the question?  
 
Q.  You were not in the qualifying. 
 
ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK:  Yeah, I got a wildcard.  
 
Q.  Assuming we'll see you next year at the Rogers Cup, where do you see yourself in one year's time? 
 
ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK:  I think now that I going to play only pro, and I going to see those players more often and play against them and compete, I think I'm going to feel more comfortable with myself out there, that I'm going to gain more experience, I'm going to succeed in my game.  
 
Q.  Do you often feel that Canadians may have a bit of an inferiority complex?  Some have had to train at Nick Bollettieri.  When we see him in Florida, he's always boasting about his academies and all the Florida academy players seem to get on top of the word.  Does that make it a little counterproductive to other Canadian players that want to hone their games in this country?
 
ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK:  Well, I think each player's different.  It depends how you develop your game, mentally, physically and everything.  Out there in his academy, they have lot of players, lot of different players.  They just keep on playing against each other.  There was a lot of professionals there, so they can hit with the pros.  I think -- well, everyone has a choice, if they can go to an academy or train on their own.  I think us, the Canadians, we just need to get more experience because we don't often play in Tier I events.  Marie is 23 years old and she has this experience.  But I think she's improving her game.  I mean, we're still without an academy, but we still do our good thing.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT