ROGERS CUP
July 26, 2016
Aleksandra Wozniak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. ERRANI/A. Wozniak   
6-4, 7-6   
An interview with:   
ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  Overall, what did you think of your afternoon?  
ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK: I think it was, you know, a close match today, playing the No. 25 in the world.  I thought I played well.  I had some opportunities to turn it around.  It was a close match.   
But I'm happy with the performance going forward, you know, after this long period of time which I didn't play such a high level of tennis for a while.   
 Q.  How is your health?  
ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK: It's good.  It's stable, you know.  I'm really happy to be back, enjoying tennis on the court.  So it's really fun.   
 Q.  You talk about this match gives you confidence.  Is it difficult, though, when you're so far down in the rankings to get back up?  
ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK: Yeah, for sure.  You know, after the rehab I know I'm going to lose my ranking.  You're starting at the bottom, no points or anything.  You just know you have the chance to use eight tournaments with the protective ranking.   
I know I'm 400 something.  I know that's a long way back, but I'm willing to put the efforts and work to get my ranking back up and build my game to help me.   
Yeah, I'm just motivated and very passionate about my sport, so it's easier in a way to do all these efforts and put the time in.   
 Q.  How many protective rankings do you have left?  
ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK: Two left.   
 Q.  The US Open and something else?  
ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK: Well, I played Australian Open and French.  You're allowed only two Grand Slams in those eight.  So just two WTAs.   
 Q.  You got a nice ovation after the match, support during the match.  What was that like?  
ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK: Oh, it's incredible.  The crowd, playing here at home with everyone there watching and supporting you.  Every point, they were getting so into the match.  It was really fun, exciting.   
The family is here, friends watching.  It's a really great tournament for Canadian tennis.  It's growing so much.  It's so fun when people cheer you on and support us.   
 Q.  What was the difference today?  Was there something you might have done that you didn't do that might have changed it?  
ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK: Yeah, I think just my decision making.  Sometimes I felt rushed, for sure.  A girl at such a high level is going to make you rush in points.  She mixes it up so well.   
Try to be aggressive and focus.  I need to get better on my consistency on making decisions there, not rushing too much, you know.  So that's something to work on.  But in those matches, when you play against the best, that's the opportunity.  You got to step up and play like that.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.   
 Q.  A few people thought you had a chance in the match, you had a great battle.  Are you happy with the performance?  
ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK: Yes, I was.  Playing against the No. 25, I was happy with my performance in this match.  My sister gave me my stats, 32 winners.  After this long period away from the courts, I was trying to play aggressively again.   
I believe these matches against the top players will help me catch up with all the time I spent away from the courts.   
 Q.  How did your game develop after you started playing again?  
ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK: I'm more comfortable playing aggressively than I was before my surgery.  But, of course, when you play the top players, they play very fast.  Sometimes my decision making was not great.   
I have to be more consistent and control the direction of the ball when the ball comes fast.  But little by little my confidence is coming back.  I spoke with my coach.  He was happy.  He advised me to go forward.   
Playing here in Montréal is always tough because the draw is very good.   
 Q.  Physically, of course, you have to do rehabilitation, but it is also difficult mentally to get back into it.  
ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK: Well, my surgery on the shoulder meant that I had to get used to my new shoulder.  I had to change my way of serving.  Now I feel more comfortable serving.   
But, of course, it's also a mental challenge to be back after almost a year away from the courts doing surgery and rehab.   
 Q.  The crowd cheered for you, applauded you a lot after the match.  
ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK: Yes, it's always great to play in front of my crowd at home here, and my family.  It was a great pleasure to play in front of them today.  It was very exciting.   
 Q.  It was a great battle today.  What made the difference today?  Little shots here and there?  Do you have regrets, in the first set certainly?  
ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK: Well, you know, it's by playing against the top 25 players that I will be able to become more consistent.  I will try not to rush when I have to decide about my shot selection.  It's those kind of matches that will help me to be more consistent.  I shouldn't rush to try to finish off the point too early.   
 Q.  Of course, a match is only a match.  Is this match enough to convince you that you can be back up to this level?  
ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK: Yes, a match like this gives you more confidence.  Of course, when you are ahead and you miss some shots, you feel disappointed.  But it was a good match overall.  I wasn't sure I was going to be able to play at that level.   
 Q.  If I understand, you no longer have a protected ranking now.  
ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK: Yes, I had started from scratch.  The WTA allowed me to use a protected ranking, 108, for eight tournaments, including two Grand Slams.  I still have to play two WTA tournaments.  After I'll no longer have the protected ranking.   
I'm going to play in Gatineau and New Haven.  I would like also to play in Québec.   
 Q.  At 3-4 for her, you had three breakpoints to be back at 4-All.  Immediately after you were broken.  Was it the turning point of the match?  
ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK: About the match, what I really needed was to make better decisions because when you play those players, they have a lot of experience.  Sara is a great fighter.  I was just trying to take my chances and convert the chances I had, but it was not easy.   
 Q.  Players are now better when they get older, like Venus.  Are you happy to see players of her age that are playing so well?  
ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK: Yes, I think you build up experience.  Of course, tennis is getting faster.  So as long as you're healthy, everything is possible.  It's incredible to see her play at her age and perform so well.  It shows you can have a long career in tennis.   
 Q.  We heard you a lot talk about your passion for tennis.  Is that what allowed you to survive during the year away from the court?  
ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK: Yes, I believe I wouldn't have put in so many hours and work with the physio if I didn't have the passion.  There was pain, it was difficult.  But I knew I had to be patient.  Mentally I was prepared before the surgery.  I knew it was going to be long, that things would not go as quickly as I wanted them to.   
But I put in that much effort because tennis is my passion, and this is why I came back after a long absence and after the rehabilitation process.   
 Q.  While you were playing, the announcement was made that Roger Federer was putting an end to his season and wouldn't go to Rio.  Do you believe his absence in the Olympics might hurt the game?  
ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK: I'm sure it was a difficult choice for him.  As an athlete, you know how difficult it is to stay away from the courts.  He will not play for his country either in Rio.  I'm sure it's a disappointment for him.   
But maybe he wants to take care of his health or spend time with his family.  I don't know really what the reason is, but he knows what he's doing.  He has a lot of experience.   
But, of course, it's disappointing not to see him play.  He's a legend.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT