ROGERS CUP WOMEN
August 11, 2012
Aleksandra Wozniak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







C. WOZNIACKI/A. Wozniak
  6‑4, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please. 

Q.   As best I can tell, you weren't even in kindergarten the last time a Canadian was in the quarterfinals.   Do you take some pride out of what you accomplished tonight?   How does this set you up for confidence in the weeks ahead?
ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK:   It's a beautiful week I had here for me in the quarterfinals, this tournament.   Like I said in French, it means so much to me since I was a little girl coming always with my parents watching the best here.
It's unbelievable that I became a professional.   I accomplished that dream.   Today I did the quarterfinals.   I wish I could have been there, come back tomorrow.
But I played a great player again.   Hopefully next time it's going to be mine against Caroline.   I went after my shots, did everything I could, I missed by not much.   She's a defense player.   Got to make her play, got to go after your shots. 
My game, my sense of game is coming back, and my confidence.   I feel really good on the court and I feel like I'm coming back, on my way up.   It's encouraging. 

Q.   Are you starting to get to the point where you cringe whenever you see that you're having to play Caroline?   Because this is nine times I think you've played.   She seems to have something on you. 
ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK:   It feels like she always wants to win.   Definitely I think she always comes up with her best tennis against me, for some reason. 
Every time I see we've got to play against each other, I always want to step it up, also.   Hopefully next time it's my win. 

Q.   Losing is always difficult, of course.   Are there good losses?   Are there losses where you finish and say, I'm right there?
ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK:   Yeah, definitely after this week.   You know, after the whole year so far, every month, felt like every step I was closer and closer to how I felt before, how my game was and all the elements coming together. 
Definitely gonna take this week and take the confidence and the game I'm playing and keep going after it.   Hopefully I get back to the top like I was and better.
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French. 

Q.   Is Wozniacki a thorn in your side? 
ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK:   She's an excellent player and she plays defensive, whereas I am an offensive player.   Today I wanted to create a lot on the court and go for it. 
But looking back, I had a very good week here.   It's tough to play against her, but I'm on the right track and I know that I'm making progress and I want to keep going in this way.

Q.   She played two hours and a half, a very tough match, and had a very short break before playing you.   Did you think before the match it was a good opportunity for you to beat her?
ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK:   It was not just playing against her that made me want to win.   It was because I was playing in front of my home crowd, and I had all the fans encouraging me.
But she was able to bring back every point, and she made no mistakes.   We gave it a good struggle.   It was a good battle.   We played a solid match.   Unfortunately I was not able to pull it out.

Q.   Stepping back, it was a good week with you reaching the quarterfinal for the first time in the Montreal tournament?
ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK:   This tournament is so important to me.   When I was a little girl, I used to come here with my parents.   I would have wanted to continue playing tomorrow, and I'm sad that I have to stop tonight.   But I hope next time it will be for me.

Q.   What was the game plan?   Trying to play long rallies to make her tired?
ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK:   The plan was to play offensive, to be creative, and I did it.   I didn't miss many shots, and I played many winners.   I played aggressive.   And I like to finish off the point at the net, and I like to put my opponent in a difficult situation. 
So my game is there.   After my injury I was not sure I would be able to come back at that same level.   I was afraid I wouldn't be able to do that.
Now I feel healthy, my confidence is rising, and I believe my level is almost as perfect as before.

Q.   You played perfect backhands, but often your forehand ended up at the bottom of the net.   Was it because of her or because of you?
ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK:   Well, sometimes I was not watching the ball right to the end.   This is something I must keep on working on, and I have to work on it until it becomes perfect.

Q.   Can you compare your level with 2009?
ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK:   I think I put my game together again.   I feel the ball well when I hit it.   I am able to anticipate, and I am able to be focused during the whole match.   My confidence is up.   So I believe, yes, my level is back. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT