ROGERS CUP WOMEN
August 11, 2012
Aleksandra Wozniak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. WOZNIAK/C. McHale
  7‑6, 6‑3

Q.   Tell us a little bit about how you felt you played today and yesterday against McHale. 
ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK:   Yeah, yesterday was a really long wait.   We had to wait over four hours, and then we went back on the court after the rain delay, and we had just time enough to warm up and go back in.
So, yeah, I had to warm up again.   You know, today I just wanted to finish off the match quickly and be able to rest for my next one.   I came back and played aggressive.
Now I'm recovering for my next match.

Q.   How do you deal with those sorts of rain delays when you are just sitting around and just waiting for the rain to stop?   How did you keep yourself busy yesterday afternoon waiting for, you know, the match to resume?
ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK:   I wasn't sure how long will be the rain delay, but it was a couple of hours.
So, yeah, at the beginning I was at the gym, staying active physically to be ready to go back on the court.   Then, you know, we had to wait it out.   That's not the fun part of tennis, to wait around.
So, yeah, pretty much rested, ate something, and then we went back and just had the quick warmup.   We couldn't finish the match.   Yeah, they're not fun, but you have to stay focused on your game and, you know, on your strategy to come back and be able to finish when you're leading 5‑2 in the second set.
So I'm glad I did it today.

Q.   Did you draw on the atmosphere of the crowd yesterday and today?   Obviously it was very pro‑Canadian.   How did you feel the atmosphere was today?
ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK:   It's amazing that after the rain yesterday that people were still there, and then today they came and supported me again.   It's nice to play in front of my home crowd. 
You know, I only get the chance to play once a year here or Quebec City ‑ that's later in the year‑ so it's very nice to have all my friends, family, sponsors to come and support me, and fans, you know.   They give me a lot of energy.   It's always great, a lot of fun.

Q.   The quarterfinals here, you've never advanced this far in the tournament.   How are you going to approach your match against Wozniacki or Lepchenko?
ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK:   Yeah, really excited to be in the quarterfinals.   I've always come with my friends to watch the best players in the world come to this big tournament.   This tournament means a lot to me.   For sure I'm going to come and be ready to do the best I can tonight. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT