ROGERS CUP WOMEN
August 9, 2012
Aleksandra Wozniak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. WOZNIAK/J. Jankovic
  6‑2, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   What did you like best about your match today?
ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK:   What I liked best?   I was really happy with the way I kept being really focused each point, the positive in my mind.   Even though sometimes I did an error or anything, I tried really to have a good attitude on the court and just play offensive tennis. 
So I was happy with the way I felt today, for sure, second round, taking it to the next one.

Q.   Do you feel the power of experience sometimes in moments like that?
ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK:   Yeah, for sure.   You know, I also, after being for such a long time on the sidelines from injury, it just helped build up my character, be stronger and tougher and in important points under pressure and the stress.
I think it helps, you know, at this high level again like I was before, so I just take it, keep moving forward with that experience.

Q.   What's it mean that it's here in Montreal?
ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK:   What it means? 

Q.   Getting to the third round. 
ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK:   Couldn't have been better, you know, to be here in front of the home crowd and do my third round here at a big tournament like this, no?   I'm really excited.

Q.   Petra Kvitova last night was talking about the difficulty of transitioning from grass to hard court because there has been so much grass this month with Wimbledon and the Olympics.   How have you found that?
ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK:   Yeah, exactly.   It's been a big year, and it was a question of adapting, time change, the balls are different, the surface.   For sure physically and mentally it's tough on the players, but, I mean, we do it 10 months out of 12, changing always surfaces, and we have to adapt quickly.   It's never easy. 
I tried to prepare the best I could for this tournament with few days on hard courts, but, yeah, it's definitely not easy.   It's a challenge, but, I mean, we always put ourselves into challenges at this high level.   You do the best that you can on the court.

Q.   It's the first time in five meetings you've beaten Jankovic. 
ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK:   Yeah, it was about time.   (Smiling.)

Q.   How was this one different other than just winning it?
ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK:   Yeah, today, and when I knew I would play Jelena, it was really important for me.   I really wanted to win this because, you know, for sure I have lost tough matches against her, and, you know, I really wanted to win today and be so focused on what I had to do and not on how she plays, you know, execute my game plan.   Today I succeeded at that.   I'm happy about that.

Q.   Tell us about the relationship between yourself and Eugenie.   There has been a lot of talk obviously about how well she's been playing.   What kind of advice do you give her and what's the relationship between the two of you?
ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK:   Yeah, we played doubles yesterday.   I seen her here at the national center training.   She's a great girl.   It's nice to see her transition from juniors to pro. 
So far it's going smoothly.   Yeah, she has great potential.   It's nice to see that Canadian tennis is growing on the professional side, and we're rocking the tour so far.   So it's good.   It's nice to see more Canadians on the tour, definitely.
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French.

Q.   You were not playing your best tennis, yet this victory was impressive. 
ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK:   My strategy worked out well.   In fact, I'm very close to my best tennis, because against her I need to play well if I want to win.   Last time we played, we played three big sets, so it was important for me to play my best tennis and do whatever I could to win that match.

Q.   What was that strategy or game plan?
ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK:   I tried to concentrate on each point one after the other, to be consistent and to hit hard from the baseline.   I really wanted to go for my shots.

Q.   You seemed more confident than in your first match and your serve worked out well today. 
ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK:   Yes, I wanted to go into that match with that kind of energy, and everything worked out well.   I think the more I advance in this tournament, the better my rhythm is.

Q.   How does it feel to play at home?
ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK:   I'm very happy to be playing here, and also I am very happy with my level of tennis.

Q.   So far you had an excellent year. 
ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK:   Yes, it's a very big year for me.   I was dreaming of representing Canada, and also I feel more confident now when the matches are tough.

Q.   What can you say about your next opponent, whichever it is?
ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK:   Well, McHale is a very good player, and Voskoboeva, I played her lately in Eastbourne.   Both of them are very good players, and I will need to raise my level of game against either one.

Q.   You lost four times against Jankovic.   At what moment in the match did you start believing you could win?
ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK:   I was just trying to focus on each point one at a time.   I saw she was trying to raise her level, but I tried to keep the pressure on her and to keep hitting hard.   We played good rallies, and what I needed was to dictate the point.

Q.   You also returned a lot better. 
ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK:   It was important for me to have good returns, because then I could dictate the point and I could put pressure on my opponent from the beginning of the rally and put her in a difficult position.
As to my serve, I was able to win many points, thanks to this shot.

Q.   And Jankovic seemed to make many mistakes. 
ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK:   She did, but I was trying to give her no rhythm, and in fact I was trying to make her make mistakes.   The rallies were going very fast, and I was trying to do as few errors as I could. 

Q.   It was a long time you hadn't beaten a top 20 player. 
ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK:   Yes, I am happy with my game right now.   I have improved and I am more consistent, and I will prepare as well as I can for my next round. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT