ROGERS CUP WOMEN
August 7, 2012
Aleksandra Wozniak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. WOZNIAK/D. Hantuchova
  7‑5, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Was it difficult to keep your concentration?   Are you glad that it was over?   Because it started raining again as you were leaving, and it's nice to have a rest day tomorrow?
ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK:   Yeah, definitely.   It was really important to keep the concentration up.   For sure I felt a bit that it was getting nighttime in the second set a bit, and I had to quickly get myself activated again, get that energy back in me and concentration. 
It was good that‑‑ you know, you never know if you go back out there after it's nighttime and rain delay.   So I really had to stay in the gym active and be ready to come back if that was the case. 
I'm happy to be done today.   It was really a matter of first match here coming from the Olympics, change of surface, you have to find your rhythm, the balls, the time, but I think I did it and it was good for me. 
Tomorrow it's doubles, and before the doubles I'll be preparing, having a good preparation for the next round.

Q.   Did you have to fight off any discouragement having those three match points?
ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK:   Yeah, for sure.   You feel them, it kind of hurts a bit, but it's not over till, you know, it's over.
I came back.   I knew a tiebreaker was very important to finish, so I was really focused on taking one point at a time and keeping my game up.

Q.   Last time you faced her you lost to her.   How much was that extra motivation, for lack of better words, to have some sort of revenge?
ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK:   Yeah, I had to bring in good tennis today from the very beginning.   I found my rhythm.   It got better in the match, and, you know, I just had to keep my game, you know, playing well and not doing too many errors.
Daniela is such a good player.   You have to play well to win.   The crowd gave me so much energy.   It was really nice to play at home.   Yeah, I'm taking the confidence from today for the next round.

Q.   Can you just talk a bit about the benefit of the crowd to you?
ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK:   Yeah, it's amazing.   Like I was saying a few days earlier, I said how we're lucky, you know, to play at home and have this big tournament, because we travel 10 months out of 12 and there is this tournament and also Quebec City that's later, at the end of the season, and the crowd always, you know, help you surpass yourself, you know. 
It brings you some extra encouragement in yourself and motivation, so much energy like when you need it to finish a match like tonight.   You know, it's wonderful to have such a nice crowd.

Q.   Were you surprised when you came back, even though it was a small crowd... 
ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK:   It was really nice that there were still big fans there and supporting.   They were so into it.   They were really excited.   That for sure boosts your spirits up. 
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French. 

Q.   How did you manage the rain delay?   After those 55 minutes off the court you missed three match points. 
ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK:   I wasn't sure we would resume play.   In the locker room I tried to be ready physically and mentally for the match and to stay very focused.   My opponent is a very consistent player, and I knew I had to focus on each point.
I was very impressed by the crowd who stayed in spite of the rain, and I was receiving so much energy from them.   It was great.

Q.   Yesterday you said that with the time difference it was difficult for you to stay awake after 8:00 in the evening.   How did you manage this late match today?
ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK:   On the second set during a moment I was a bit spaced but fortunately I was able to get my energy back and my concentration also.
I was totally into the present moment.   I am happy that I was able to finish this match off tonight.

Q.   You seemed to have trouble serving. 
ALEKSANDRA WOZNIAK:   Well, my arm felt heavy, and I wasn't able to hit my second serve very hard.   I need to work on my serve for the doubles but also for my next singles match. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT