US OPEN
August 26, 1997
Tami Jones
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. What was it like to play for two? 
 
 TAMI JONES: Well, it was quite an experience. I mean, I kind of laughed when I saw my
draw. In fact, how I found out was on CNN originally. It was a bit intimidating concerning
my condition, but at the same time, my husband thought what a great way to go out, playing
on the new Arthur Ashe Stadium, playing Martina Hingis. It's a good story for our child,
though, right? 
 
Q. Do you know if it's a boy or girl yet?
 
 TAMI JONES: No. We're going to wait. In about another month, you can find out. We're
going to find out. 
 
Q. What, are you ten weeks pregnant?
 
 TAMI JONES: 15. 
 
Q. So is this it for you?
 
 TAMI JONES: This is it. This was my last Corel WTA tournament. I'm going to play World
Team tennis right after this. I'm playing the doubles aspect of it. I'm going to do that. 
 
Q. Right after this? You mean right after the US Open? 
 
 TAMI JONES: It starts right after the US Open. So I'm playing for Milwaukee, which is
my home state. 
 
Q. Are you totally done? Do you think you'll come back after the baby?
 
 TAMI JONES: I guess I leave all options open. I kind of look at this as the end of this
chapter of my life, and on to the next. I've been looking forward to having a family, so I
see this as a nice way to probably end my career. 
 
Q. Are you moving to Cincy?
 
 TAMI JONES: Uh-huh, yeah. 
 
Q. When is that taking place?
 
 TAMI JONES: Actually probably within the next month or so. 
 
Q. Is that because your sister is there?
 
 TAMI JONES: Yeah, my sister is there, and we decided since we're starting our family,
we'd like to be near family. It's a nice place to settle down, so. 
 
Q. Did the doctors say there's no problems playing today?
 
 TAMI JONES: Yeah. I mean, I was worried and I talked to him. He just wanted to make
sure that I was drinking enough fluids, and it was very important that I not become
dehydrated. So I was trying to drink lots of water. I went to the bathroom about ten times
before going out on the court. I asked how many bathroom breaks I was allowed. Thank God I
didn't use any of them. He just said to be careful. He said really he felt like I would
know, you know, I would be able to know if there was something funny going on. 
 
Q. Any morning sickness?
 
 TAMI JONES: No, I've been lucky. Actually, I felt great. I've just been more tired.
That's the only real thing that I've noticed. 
 
Q. Somebody asked Martina, was it fair about the dropshot.
 
 TAMI JONES: She was a good sport. She was talking to me a little bit about it before we
went on. When I won my game, she said what a great shot that was. She was really nice
about it. 
 
Q. Did she say that on a changeover when you were sitting around?
 
 TAMI JONES: Yeah, she did. 
 
Q. Let me ask you again, because we missed it. Did your doctor say it was okay to play
and were there any sort of ramifications?
 
 TAMI JONES: Yeah, he did. He just said to me that I needed to take a lot of fluids and
make sure not to get dehydrated. He said as long as I'm doing that and I feel good, he
gave me the okay to play. 
 
Q. Has he given you any indication on how long into your pregnancy you can play
competitively before it's just an absolute --
 
 TAMI JONES: Yeah. He said basically, you know, it's kind of up to me. He said with
singles, what I will just notice is my stamina is not the same, and that I won't be as
quick, which was very apparent to me on the court. One of my assets has been my quickness,
and I was significantly slower and out of breath. So, you know, after playing out there, I
knew that this would definitely be my last singles match. You know, playing doubles is
different. I don't cover as much court, and I still feel pretty agile playing doubles. So,
you know, he felt I could play that a little bit longer. 
 
Q. You seem to be kind of laughing and smiling.
 
 TAMI JONES: Yeah. 
 
Q. Just having a good time out there?
 
 TAMI JONES: That was the idea. I thought, "What the heck. This is really a neat
way to go out." No matter what happened out there, whether I embarrassed myself out
there or it went well, I was going to have a good time, so I did. 
 
Q. Did it go well winning a game?
 
 TAMI JONES: Well, obviously I would have liked to have a longer and closer match. But,
yes, thank God I got that game. You know, I had a few other game points. She was just
serving so well and so big. She's just on top of every ball. So, you know, I just probably
needed to be in better, top form to be playing her. I wasn't exactly. But, you know, it
was just exciting for me. I actually have never played her before. I got to say at least I
did. 
 
Q. Did you ever feel there were two of you out there playing her? Did you talk to your
new partner?
 
 TAMI JONES: Oh, yeah, of course. I mean -- 
 
Q. What did you say to your new partner?
 
 TAMI JONES: I kind of joked with the baby and said, "This is our debut," how
exciting it would be. Actually, our last tournament. 
 
Q. Did you sense a response back from the baby, a smile, a gurgle?
 
 TAMI JONES: In a way I think someone was smiling on me when I drew Martina Hingis. My
whole family came here, being as that was my last tournament. They got to see me play out
on the stadium and play Martina. You know, like I said, it's definitely something to
remember. 
 
Q. Your family has been such a trademark in tennis through the Midwest. Did they all
share this with you?
 
 TAMI JONES: I got a little jab from my parents. They were not happy that I took
Whitlinger out of my name. They were hoping to see Whitlinger-Jones up there. I told them
it was time to just be Tami Jones, so. 
 
Q. Is Kelly going to keep playing?
 
 TAMI JONES: He's going to play till the end of the year. He's also coaching Alex
O'Brien right now, so he's kind of doing double duty. At the end of the year, he'll sort
of evaluate how he feels. I think at this moment he's thinking that this will be his last
year, but he feels like if he's still at the end of the year playing good tennis, maybe
he'll leave his options open. 
 
Q. Any kicks from the kid?
 
 TAMI JONES: Not yet exactly, not so far. My little tummy is coming out. 
 
Q. Will you name your child after a tennis player?
 
 TAMI JONES: We don't know. Both of us have chosen not to talk about names yet. We
thought at one point that it was just too early. It was taboo to talk about names too
early. We'll see what we have to decide. It will be a special name or unusual name, one or
the other. 
 
Q. Something to contrast with Jones?
 
 TAMI JONES: Exactly. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT