NCAA MEN'S GOLF CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 3, 2015
Bobby Cojuangco
Eric Sugimoto
Chris Zambri
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   We're joined from USC, we've got head coach Chris Zambri, student‑athletes Bobby Gojuangco and Eric Sugimoto.   Coach, a quick opening statement from you and a statement from the players, as well.   Just take us through your thoughts as you went through today's match.   
CHRIS ZAMBRI:   Well, I was with Bobby for the whole match, and so I could see what was going on in front of us with Rico's match and behind me in Sean's match.   I knew that those matches weren't going really great, and Bobby's match was very up and down, a hard‑fought match, moments of greatness and moments of not so great.   
But you know, the kid from LSU, Ben, just played a phenomenal shot into the 17th hole and then two great shots into 18 and an unbelievable two‑putt.   Congrats to him and to them.  
THE MODERATOR:   Bobby, as you went through the day, a little bit about the match, how tough was it to come back after a strong match yesterday?   Just your thoughts overall?   
BOBBY GOJUANGCO:   I think I just started off slow, personally, gave him a few holes.   But felt like I came back fine and he made an eagle on me.   Pretty tough after that.   
THE MODERATOR:   Eric, your thoughts, as well, as you went through today's match and just the overall championship for yourself as you come to this finals, your overall thoughts.   
ERIC SUGIMOTO:   It's been a great week.   I'm proud of the guys, and I'm very happy with how we played.   It could have been a little better, but overall it's been a really great experience and something I'll remember for the rest of my life.   As far as today, Stewart Jolly is obviously a really good player, a very accomplished player, and it was a good match.   I think we both didn't make too many mistakes and it was pretty steady all the way, too.   
   
 Q.   Coach, you beat Illinois and Texas.   How happy are you but at the same time how bittersweet is it to come so close but not get it done?   Just your overall thoughts looking back.   
CHRIS ZAMBRI:   Yeah, second place is way better than third, but in the end, where we are, that's what we're‑‑ how we're judged, measured, and so you know, I'm pretty bummed.   This was a huge day.   It's hard, it's really hard to get here.   
I think that this tournament is‑‑ it's a long, great week, but you've got to play great and then you've got to survive match ‑‑ it's tough to get into this position, so when you get here, you want to get it done.   
I'm just a little upset about the fact that we didn't, and runner‑up, like I said, second beats third, fourth and dead last by a mile, but we still haven't won a national championship, so that's a bummer.   
   
 Q.   How happy are you with all the performances from the players, especially Rico and Sean?   
CHRIS ZAMBRI:   Yeah, I'm happy with all the kids.   Everybody did great, had moments of greatness this year, and so I'm really excited for the kids who are coming back, and I'm really happy for Eric that he's going to leave college golf with his head super high because he was phenomenal this week for us.   He came through on the four biggest days of the year.   He played phenomenal golf on a big ol' course, and he should be really excited to head out into the golf world.  
   
 Q.   Bobby, as you come back for next season, how will this experience benefit you going into next year?   
BOBBY GOJUANGCO:   I think it's great that the four of the guys that will be here next year, we've all had such a great week and played seven straight days of really good golf, so I think next year is going to be really good.   Next year is going to be really good.   
   
 Q.   I guess a question to Eric about what happened today, but yesterday, looking back, everything was on the line, the TV guys were following you, you knew that coming in.   How were you able to stay calm and deliver those shots.   Explain that, and also just your performance today overall.   
ERIC SUGIMOTO:   I just wanted to win, and nothing was going to stop me.   Before I transferred, my coach was Brandon Goethals, and he said if something is in the way, just bulldoze it.   That's kind of the mindset I had going into today.   It's pretty easy for me to just stay in the moment and hit the shots I needed to hit.   
Today I played solid.   I can't complain.   I think I made a few mistakes out there.   I gave him a couple opportunities that he probably shouldn't have had, but I played solid.   I can't complain.   
   
 Q.   Coming into stroke play, knowing if you didn't make it to the match play or if you lose, it would be your last collegiate event, were you able to block that out and just focus on your game?   
ERIC SUGIMOTO:   Yeah, I was able to focus and play my game.   I wasn't really worried about that.   I mean, I have great teammates.   They can play.   I haven't played very well during the whole season and done fine, so I was just trying to contribute as much as I could.  
   
 Q.   Are you going to miss them, and also how much are you willing to go head‑to‑head in those summer big events?   
ERIC SUGIMOTO:   It's bittersweet.   College golf ending is kind of weird.   You know, traveling with teammates, coaches, and now it's going to be on my own.   But it's a good experience.   I think I learned a lot, and I'm looking forward to what's in store for me in the future.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT