NHL AWARDS CEREMONY
June 19, 1997
Bryan Berard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  How does it feel?

BRIAN BERARD:  Good.  I was nervous.  I am very happy.  It is an outstanding award, and an honor to win that. I mean, some of the names you see that are on the trophy, it is unbelievable.  It made it an excellent evening.


Q.  When you look at this from the beginning of the season coming in, the pressure of, you know, being the No. 1 pick, did that affect you at all during the year and, you know, coming into this and now winning it and kind of having it all over and achieve the goal that you set out?

BRIAN BERARD:  I mean, I think they will always be expectations.  I think that has got a lot to do why I was picked in the draft.  I am just going to go out every year and try to improve and play the best I can do.  And my goal is to hopefully be back here some day.  And, hopefully to win a Norris Trophy or one of the major goals, Stanley Cup for myself.  I mean, tonight was a great honor.  But, it is just a stepping stone.


Q.  Feel any kind of vindication at all after the way things didn't work out in Ottawa? 

BRIAN BERARD:  I mean, Ottawa is in the past.  I really don't think about that too much.  I am with the Islanders.  It is a lot of fun.  We have got a great team and got a great future.


Q.  Get the check yet?

BRIAN BERARD:  Not yet.


Q.  Brian, you broke in in a very difficult position for a young player.  Not many guys have won this award as defensemen.  Last one was Leetch, Suter before that.  Did you really think that you would have the success that you had this season?  Were you confident that you could come in and do the things that you did?

BRIAN BERARD:  I really didn't know what to expect.  I know that, you know, one of my things is that I could adjust pretty quickly to the leagues in the past and I knew this was the biggest step of my life and my career.  And, coming -- if I think about it, going to the Islanders was a lot of help in that.  Again a young team and a lot of guys are in a room like Bertuzzi, McCabe, and even Ziggy, that take the pressure off you.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT