NHL ENTRY DRAFT
July 8, 1995
Bryan Berard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Thank you very much. 
 
I mean, I truly -- I mean I am just happy that Ottwa selected me.  I just go on and I work from here. 
 
Of course, I mean I was surprised.  I didn't hear anything.  I mean, when I was selected, I was pleased. 
 
No, it hasn't been bad.  Just pictures here and talk to the media.  It is not bad. 
 
Hopefully, only thing I can do is just work hard this summer and come to training camp have a good camp and it will be up to the team. 
 
Not really.  I mean, just  going to see how I do at camp; how my camp is. 
 
Of course, I mean, sure the guys have expectations.  I am going to do whatever I can do to help the team win. 
 
I really don't know I didn't get to watch them too much.  I am, like I said, I am going to have a good camp and hopefully just play well. 
 
Not too much.  There will be pressure but I handle pressure pretty well.  I don't mind playing under pressure.  I think I play better, so hopefully it will come to my advantage. 
 
Well, Ottawa has good come great young guys Alexander Selivanov, Shawn, and Mark. 
 
Five, six years they are going to be good contenders.  I will do whatever I can to help that come true. 
 
I said it before, I will play for any team.  I just want to get a chance to play in the NHL. 
 
He is pretty excited.  I mean, I think he is relieved just as much as I am.  I think he is more nervous than I was today.  He is proud. 
 
I think so.  But like I said before, this is just the first step and hopefully some  day get to step on the ice and play in the NHL. 
 
I mean, first time I started skating, I was about five years old.  I had always wanted to play in the NHL.  I would say when I was 15, 16 under 17, I think, I had a pretty good tournament. I said  maybe be some day I could make a career out of this. 
 
Yeah, I am relieved.  I am still a little nervous still a little jittery, I don't think it has really hit me yet.  When it does -- I am very happy; I am pleased to play. 
 
Not at all.  I mean, me and my agent TOM LAYO will sit down and when it is the time to negotiate with RANDY SAXON, that will be business from there.  (Check name 45 (. 
 
Just to play.  Just to get a chance to play in the NHL, is just great.  It is every young hockey player kid's dream.  Hopefully, it will come true for me. 
 
Not at all.  When I played Detroit, I just loved it.  It is a great organization, and I had a good time there last year.  If I go back next year, I will work harder.  Hopefully I can make the club next year. 
      Q.   What does it mean to you to be the number one  pick? 
 
It means a lot.  That was a goal in my mind since I was young to be the first player to be selected in the draft.  I am just relieved and I am happy. 
 
A little bit.  I was like confused, but -- (laughing (. 
 
I think its going to mean a lot.  Major junior I think for some players it is the best route to take hopefully to play in the NHL some day and I think that my decision was correct and I had a great time major junior hockey is just a real good time and I just like playing the long scheduling and tough hockey and I love the game of hockey and I just want to play. 
 
Not too bad.  I mean, I like in Detroit.  I will be happy.  I will go back work harder and hopefully make the team next year.             
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT