MONSTER ENERGY NASCAR CUP SERIES: FIRST DATA 500
October 27, 2019
Martin Truex, Jr.
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. What a performance from Martin Truex Jr., the fans literally 15 feet away. Welcome to Miami.   
MARTIN TRUEX JR.: I can't believe we just won Martinsville, man. Miami is awesome, but we've wanted to win here for a long time, but the guys have worked so hard, I've worked so hard. I used to just be terrible here, and just an awesome bunch of guys. What can I say, Auto Owners, Bass Pro, TRD, everybody back at the shop, brand new race car, and again, it still wants to keep going‑‑  
   
 Q. You're slowly losing your race car.   
MARTIN TRUEX JR.: It'll be all right. It wants to just keep going. But I can't say enough about everybody on our team and all these fans out here, man, this is awesome. To get a grandfather clock is pretty special.  
   
 Q. When I talked to you this afternoon, you honestly didn't seem that confident. Did you expect a performance like that, leading 464 laps?   
MARTIN TRUEX JR.: I don't think anyone expected that. This racetrack in general, you don't see that. Hats off to my eyes. Pit crew was stellar today, and we didn't make many adjustments. We adjusted on early and it came to life, and that was a lot of fun. I don't know, maybe now I've got this place figured out, who knows. But just really proud of everybody, and after last year, we talked earlier, everybody wants to keep talking about last year, and I'm like, we've got work to do. I'm just proud of everybody for giving me a race car like that and being able to put it all together today when it counted.  
   
 Q. You mentioned the disappointment of last year. Does this make up for that?   
MARTIN TRUEX JR.: I'll let you know in a few weeks. The cool part is we're going to Homestead again, and that was what we tried to accomplish this weekend. We don't have to worry about points anymore, we can just get to work on our Homestead car. Just honestly, I'm so excited and proud to drive this thing, and our team is unbelievable.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT