MONSTER ENERGY NASCAR CUP SERIES: COCA-COLA 600
May 26, 2019
Martin Truex, Jr.
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Martin Truex Jr. holding his hands up in the air like, how did we do it. I think that's a great question. How do you take a wrecked car and make a four‑wide pass for the win? You aren't supposed to do that. 
MARTIN TRUEX JR.: That was incredible. What a race. My good buddy Johnny Morris, they decided to put red, white and blue on this car, and this is for everybody that gave their life so we could be out here tonight, Nicholas Null on my race car, the USO, Johnny Morris, Bass Pro Shops, one hell of a team, man, we never gave up on it. 
I thought we were done; we blew a tire and hit the wall, just kept fighting. Kept fighting, and what a race there at the end. That was pretty wild, so really happy. These mile‑and‑a‑halfs have been tough on us this year, but we're starting to get them figured out now.

Q. At what point did you feel like you had a car that could win? 
MARTIN TRUEX JR.: Before I hit the fence the first time, before I blew a tire there early, I was like, man, this thing is unbelievable, and then it was really tight, and we had to just keep freeing it up and we got too loose, and then we just went back on an adjustment. 
But just thanks to Cole and all the guys, James and everybody back at the shop, TRD engines, incredible. We're gaining on it. Just really thankful. Got to say hi to Sherry back home, she stayed home taking care of our dog. He's been a little bit sick. Love you, babe. See you in a little bit. I'm going to have a few cold beverages; that was a long night right there.

Q. Special celebration for Coach Gibbs being selected for the Hall of Fame this week?
MARTIN TRUEX JR.: Yeah, it's unbelievable. To think a guy can be in the Pro Football Hall of Fame and the NASCAR Hall of Fame just tells you how special he is, and I'm super honored to drive for him and for his team and what he's built there, and hopefully I can continue to deliver what he hired me for. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT