MONSTER ENERGY NASCAR CUP SERIES: FORD ECOBOOST 400
November 16, 2018
Kyle Busch
Kevin Harvick
Joey Logano
Martin Truex, Jr.
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: We'll start our post‑qualifying availability with our Championship 4 drivers. Joined first by our second place qualifier, Kyle Busch, driver of the No. 18 M&M's Toyota. Talk a little bit about your qualifying run and then we'll open it up to questions. 
KYLE BUSCH: I thought it was pretty good. Just first run was really good, obviously, and then second run okay. Third run, I thought we made the right adjustments and hit the right line and did a good job with everything, just I guess didn't have enough speed. Overall pleased with the effort today and guys did a good job, and the car felt pretty good. 

Q. Kyle, with a non‑Championship 4 driver winning the pole, is that any sort of comfort that the variable of another title contender having that No.1 pit stall is out of play now? 
KYLE BUSCH: Yeah, I mean, it's happened the last two years; happened to him last year, happened to me this year with Denny both times being able to get on the pole. Obviously just‑‑ they'll have that pit selection and we'll have to figure out where we're going to pit from, but overall just‑‑ I think that if it was for a Championship 4 contender to win the pole, then I think that would give them a slight advantage if it comes down to those late restarts and having‑‑ well, late pit stops having to come to pit road for four tires. 
THE MODERATOR: We're also joined by the driver of the No.78 Bass Pro Shops 5‑Hour Energy Toyota, Martin Truex Jr. 

Q. Kyle, is there more than one good pit stall here, and is there any reason for you to‑‑ your team to talk to Denny and see if they'll pick the second best and you guys can pick the best? 
KYLE BUSCH: That's probably too far, but it would sure be nice. 
MARTIN TRUEX JR.: I agree it's way too far. 
KYLE BUSCH: But I think that if you're not in the No.1 pit box, then 2 through 40 are the same. 

Q. Martin, aren't you going to be future teammates? Couldn't you make an exception for that pit box idea? 
MARTIN TRUEX JR.: No. 
KYLE BUSCH: (Laughs.)

Q. Talk about being out there; three of y'all are up front, close to the front. Kevin obviously did not have as good of a run. Does it make that much of a difference? 
MARTIN TRUEX JR.: I think if you get the pole, yes, the first pit box. I think that's what we were all shooting for tonight. Anywhere else in the top 10 or 12, it's a long race; a lot happens here. Long runs come into play, and if you're good, you can drive pretty much from anywhere in the field. 
Yeah, I don't think we've learned a whole lot about the race today if that's what you're asking. 
THE MODERATOR: We're also joined by driver of the No.4 Jimmy John's Ford, Kevin Harvick. 

Q. Do you guys notice any difference in the track conditions between practice and qualifying today and how that might play out for Sunday? 
MARTIN TRUEX JR.: It's definitely changed less from practice to qualifying than it normally does, but it's usually hot and sunny and then it gets dark, so definitely a more consistent track throughout the day today. As far as comparing it to last year, it's hard to say because the tire is different. Yeah, definitely enjoying the weather, though. It's nice when it's not 85 or 90. I like the 70s stuff.
THE MODERATOR: We're joined by the final member of our Championship 4, the driver of the No.22 Shell‑Pennzoil Ford, Joey Logano. 

Q. Kevin, knowing that we've watched guys in Jimmie's case two years ago come from the back and still be able to win this race and win a championship, is there a level of real concern qualifying where you did for Sunday's race or knowing that you've got 400 miles, is it more now about focusing on making the right adjustments for practice? 
KEVIN HARVICK: Yeah, I mean, we qualified 12th, not last, so I think it's not that big a deal if we can get our car driving right for Sunday. We didn't qualify well here last year, either, and hadn't really drove well in qualifying trim all day today. Just got to get it driving right in race trim. 

Q. For any of y'all, did y'all get anything out of practice today that you can transfer over to the race, or is it just kind of getting the car set up for qualifying today and then trying to finalize everything tomorrow? 
JOEY LOGANO: I don't know, it's so different today than what it'll be tomorrow when you get the tape off it and you make more than one lap and the tires wear out. You know, there might be some things in qualifying trim with your changes, oh, that seems to be better. But you never really know because it might only be better for a lap, one of those type of things. I don't think a whole bunch transfers over. I think everyone was just tuned in for one lap today. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT