MONSTER ENERGY NASCAR CUP SERIES: FEDERATED AUTO PARTS 400
September 22, 2018
Kevin Harvick
Martin Truex, Jr.
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: We're now joined by our second‑place finisher, driver of the No.4 Jimmy John's New Nine‑Grain Wheat Sub Ford for Stewart‑Haas Racing, Kevin Harvick.   
   
 Q. Not many cautions; did you feel like you might have been gaining some ground there at the end, just ran out of time?   
KEVIN HARVICK: We were definitely gaining a little bit of ground. But we just‑‑ we didn't have enough time to get all the way to him. But our guys did a great job rebounding after last weekend and doing what we had to do this week to put ourselves in a good position for next week, so solid night.  
   
 Q. Last week given how you've run here, even though it's not the win, still feel pretty good the way you finished?   
KEVIN HARVICK: Yeah, I think we've been top 5 six out of the last eight, seven out of the last nine now. It's been a solid racetrack for us, but we just haven't had the winning car. The Gibbs cars have been tough to beat here over the last few years, and we just haven't had the speed that they have had. This time we had speed and were able to race right there with them. We've been hit‑or‑miss here, and tonight was a good night to be good.  
THE MODERATOR: We are now joined by our third‑place finisher, driver of the No.78 Auto Owners Insurance Toyota for Furniture Row Racing, Martin Truex Jr.   
   
 Q. Out of the last five races here, you've led more than 100 laps in four of them, so do you feel like tracks owe you one?   
MARTIN TRUEX JR.: If there's one that does, it's here, I can promise you that. I don't know what we've got to do to win one of these things. God, it's awful frustrating to come here and be so good and lead so many laps and find every single way possible that just things don't work out for us. It's pretty frustrating. But at the same time, it feels good to run that good, and we recovered well and did what we came here to do, which is move on to the next round.   
I wish we would have been in Victory Lane right now, but in a few days I guess the pain will go away a little bit and we'll be able to go to the Roval and have some fun with no pressure.   
   
 Q. Martin, you kind of sailed through the first two stages and then that tire mishap. How do you reconcile that with your team and what do you do to put it in the rear view mirror?   
MARTIN TRUEX JR.: Yeah, you've just got to move on from it. You can't beat a dead horse. If you start yelling and screaming at them they're just going to do worse the next stop. For me, I let Cole and the guys in the pit handle it. I just do all I can do behind the wheel to get back to the front. That's all you can do. Like I said, it was a good recovery. Their stops after that were all good. We had a new front changer this week and thought he did a really good job. Aside from the penalty, we were probably the fastest we've been on pit road in a while. That's really encouraging for the playoffs and going down the stretch here when you need to win races off pit road and things like that. We'll take a mistake here when it doesn't count and hope they get it cleaned up, and we'll move forward and really just have fast, clean pit stops.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT