MONSTER ENERGY NASCAR CUP SERIES: FEDERATED AUTO PARTS 400
September 9, 2017
Martin Truex, Jr.
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Martin Truex Jr., is that a fair way to assess the evening for you, you are a little PO'd?  
MARTIN TRUEX JR.: I wish we could have got the trophy last weekend. Yeah, I mean, tonight sucks, plain and simple, just the way it ended up.   
You're out there dominating like this, you know your car is not very good on restarts for a couple laps. Caution for a guy that shouldn't even be out there is kind of ridiculous. I don't know. I don't really know what to say about all that.   
It's unfortunate the way the race ended. I'm madder about the caution than Denny getting into us. We talked. I know he didn't do it on purpose. He jumped on the brakes, got on the splitter. Gave him room, but he was aggressive on the brakes. That stuff happens.   
Really upset about the caution. One to go, it sucks. Two weeks in a row to be leading right at the end and lose it. That's the way it goes. That's racing. Good news is we're fast and we're doing everything right. We got to work on our pit road a little bit. The last couple weeks has been a little slow.   
I don't know. It's tough to lose 'em like that.   
   
 Q. The positive is very clear from tonight, because this has not been your best racetrack, yet you dominated the race.   
MARTIN TRUEX JR.: Yeah, I mean, we worked hard. We had a game plan coming here. We worked hard on it. The guys did a great job. I felt good about our changes yesterday in practice. I felt like we were going the right direction. We were getting that balance that I've been looking here for so many years.   
Tonight throughout the race we just kept getting it a little bit better each pit stop. The last 150, 200 laps, it was lights out. Nobody could touch us after 10 laps in a run.   
A little bit disappointed obviously again that the caution came out at the end. Nothing we can do about those things. I don't know what you do, throw away your long run setup and try to be good for a lap for these restarts that always seem to happen.   
I don't know. It's a tough deal. Just thankful for everybody on my team, all the guys back in Denver at the shop that give me such good racecars, Barney and everybody. Just try to keep going. 10 to go. See if we can keep the momentum going.   
   
 Q. You've had some tough ones in your career. This one seems to be extra tough. Where does this rank?  
MARTIN TRUEX JR.: Yeah, I mean, I just don't agree with the caution. I think it's ridiculous that, again, there's a guy out there that shouldn't even be out there, 20 some laps down, riding around. As slow as he is, he can't even hold his damn line. It's ridiculous. He scrapes the wall, they throw a caution with one to go. That's not what racing should be.   
I'm mad about that. But I have to go back and watch the tape, see how it exactly played out. I'm madder about all that than I am about losing. Just a hard way to lose 'em.   
   
 Q. Good news is you have 53 bonus points.   
MARTIN TRUEX JR.: I should have had five more tonight.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT