NASCAR SPRINT CUP SERIES: FEDERATED AUTO PARTS 400
September 10, 2016
Martin Truex, Jr.
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. You had to settle for a third‑place finish and those late‑race caution after caution after cautions seemed to really kill you. Where did the 11 have the edge on you at the end of the race?
MARTIN TRUEX JR.: I think it all started with him getting out of the pits in front of us and it translated into all those cautions coming out of those short runs. It seemed like I would feel like I just got even with him or typically all night I was off a little bit from a few of those guys, for five or six laps on restarts, and then I'd maintain and then I would start to reel them in and I could pass them within 10 laps. Just never got that opportunity. The caution would come out every time before it happened, and then at the end, I don't know at the end, I think I used my tires up having to get back by the 18 and the 42 that had passed me on restarts. All in all, it was an awesome night for us. We had a great race car. We had a new sponsor on board with Tanger Outlets. It was good to have them a good run. We did everything pretty good tonight, it just didn't work out. But really proud of that effort. We've struggled here at Richmond the last few times, and to do what we did tonight was just incredible. The car was lights out on long runs and nobody could touch us, so that was a lot of fun. Just wish it went green the rest of the race, but it didn't.

Q. You had the win last week, now you get a top‑three finish with the most laps led. What momentum is this team carrying as we go to the Chase?
MARTIN TRUEX JR.: We've got a lot of momentum. We've got a lot of confidence. We've just got a great team. We've got everything going the way we need it to right now. Tonight we overcame a few mistakes, one by me speeding on pit road, and we had a pit gun issue on one of our pit stops and lost a bunch of spots. We overcame all that, we kept our head in the game and worked hard and in the end had a shot at it again, so that was good. But I can't say enough about our whole team, everybody in Denver, everybody at TRD, everybody at Toyota and everybody at Gibbs, the alliance we have is working great. All the drivers working together. I know there's five of us, we can't all five make the race at Homestead, but we're going to try to get at least four of them there, so we'll see what we can do. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT