NASCAR SPRINT CUP SERIES: QUICKEN LOANS RACE FOR HEROES 500
November 15, 2015
Martin Truex, Jr.
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: Martin, congratulations on making the Championship Four. Tell us how much you're looking forward to going to Homestead‑Miami Speedway next weekend.   
MARTIN TRUEX JR.: Thank you very much. It's definitely obviously an exciting day for everybody at Furniture Row Racing and me and just super proud of my team for the season we've been able to put together, and I feel like we've overcome a lot of obstacles. We have kind of overcome a lot of odds, and just proud to be part of this group and looking forward to having the opportunity to do something that we've all dreamed about our whole lives next weekend.   
   
 Q. Martin, how concerned were you during that last caution when you guys had already pitted and yellow came out?  
MARTIN TRUEX JR.: I was real concerned until I looked at the scoreboard, and I was like, okay, we're going to be fine. We're going to be back on the lead lap if we get going here, and really the only guy we were racing was one car ahead of us, so we felt okay about it. But you never know who could have went up there and snuck out a win. It was just one of those deals where I couldn't believe we got caught by the caution after running 200 laps almost green the whole race. It's like ‑‑ we pitted a lap before the caution came out, and that's a tough deal. That's happened to us‑‑ Dave and I were talking about it after I got out of the car, I can't believe how many times it's happened to us this year. I mean, it's got to be 15‑plus times that's happened to us. We pit, the caution comes out, you're stuck a lap down. It's really frustrating because we were having a solid night up to this point, certainly not as good as we had hoped, but solid, and it's always frustrating when those things happen.   
   
 Q. Have you guys talked about what car you're going to bring to Homestead, and what your thoughts are on going to Homestead with that car?  
MARTIN TRUEX JR.: I haven't really talked to them about it. I mean, they know what to bring and they've been working on it. They're trying to put together the best possible car they can in all areas, and I'm sure the rest of the guys are doing the same thing. With the way our stuff has been running here lately, it's been really good, and we were really strong at Texas. I feel like what we're taking there might be a little bit better. Excited to get to Homestead, which has been a really good track for me over the years, and get a chance to pull off our first win there.   
   
 Q. How did you feel about the way the race went tonight with your car? Seemed like you were pretty strong early. Were you being patient, kind of staying where you were because you were trying to move to the front, or how were you looking at it?  
MARTIN TRUEX JR.: No, we weren't near as good as we needed to be. We struggled at practice some yesterday and made some changes last night trying to get better and just weren't that good at the start of the race and never really got it figured out. I mean, we had a top‑10 car, but it wasn't much better. All in all, we did what we needed to do to move on to next week, and really don't matter how we did now.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Martin. Congratulations.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT