NASCAR MEDIA CONFERENCE
January 9, 2007
Jimmie Johnson
Ricky Rudd
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  


  


   RICKY RUDD: Looking forward to it, having a good test so  far.   
 It's good to be back, had a nice  vacation and kind of refreshed a little bit.  And burnout factor was setting in too much, took a year off and just  sort of cleared my head and figured out what I wanted to do.  
 I was fortunate enough that first of  all, the risk that I knew that I was taking when I did that was if I decided I  might want to come back, there might not be an opportunity for me because the  seats would have been filled. As it  turned out it worked out good that Robert Yates was looking for someone to fill  the seat in the 88 and the Mars candy company, Snickers, was good enough to  step up and sponsor the car and looking forward to it.   
 Down here at Daytona for about the  900th time I think and trying to test and figure out what it takes to go  faster.   
  
  Q.  I hate to start out this way, but Bobby Hamilton, you raced with him for  years, talk about him as a driver and as a person.   
 RICKY RUDD: Well, Bobby is just a super guy, he's a great  competitor, came back up when nobody was making any money in the sport. He was here because he loved the sport. He worked hard to build his race team, but  even before that as a competitor, he was just very good. He was very aggressive when he needed to be.   
 He was very smart, a real good setup  guy. Really good on getting his cars  dialed in and setup, and I think that's what sort of separated him from a lot  of the competitors is he was good at setting his own cars up. Not really sure what happened, the Cup deal  is kind of crazy. If you're in the wrong  car at the wrong time all of a sudden your career can sort of be over. And I'm not really sure what happened to  Bobby but he went over to the Truck Series and started his own team, and as  everyone knows he did well over there. Bobby  did well over there. He was a great guy,  great competitor and he'll be missed, I'm sure.  
  
  Q.  Inaudible?  
 RICKY RUDD: Bobby worked for that. He put a lot of effort into it, his own money  time and effort he could have walked away and put his money into savings  somewhere. But he sort of put out there  for risk and invested heavily in that Truck team and it paid off  dividends. Hopefully financially it made  sense for him and his family is taken care of, because these things involve  large amounts of money. But a lot of  respect for Bobby not only as a driver and car owner but a setup guy.  
  
  Q.  What was it like the first time you sat and watched a race on TV last  year and how long did it take to you get the itch to come back?  
 RICKY RUDD: Well, I don't think the itch to race ever  really left. I tried to keep it in check  and tried not to watch too many broadcasts, tried not to listen to it on the  radio. We did a lot of things that  Sundays there was not a whole lot of free Sundays to watch the TV even if we  wanted to.   
 But occasionally it worked out where  I could see the race, and I just said I'll watch the start of the race and  usually that was the case. But sometimes  if the race was really good, I could watch the whole thing, but not too many  times did that happen, we were doing other things. We were busy and working hard at playing and  catching people up and seeing people I had not seen in many years and doing a  lot of maintenance, unfortunately, that was not necessarily the pretty thing.   
 I was sitting by the wayside there,  and you know back when you race, you've got enough money to pay somebody to do  all your maintenance stuff. When you  quit you have to do your own stuff and that's probably the biggest reality  check. I was good about trying to keep  that in perspective because I knew the day would be coming somewhere and we  would not always be spoiled like we are today and you have to cut your grass  and all that. So I was never really too  far away from that because I knew that day would be coming.  
  
  Q.  You mentioned the burnout factor.  What do you think led to that for you, and when you come back into this,  do you have a different frame of mind or perspective on what you want to get  accomplished now?  
 RICKY RUDD: Well the burnout factor, I think it's  probably not too hard to figure out. 30  years, 31 years of nonstop going from really they call it an off-season as you  can see is not a whole lot of off-season.  Just one reason rolls into the next and the next one rolls into the  next. And before you know it you look  around there's 10, 15 years gone by. And  the biggest thing for me is to really sit back.   
 My father passed away last year, and  he was 81 years old and still alive and I'm sitting there thinking, man, how  did he get to be 81? I don't think  that's no different than anything else that you do in life, whether you have  your own business and put your heart and soul into it and time does have a way  of getting by and flying away from us.  
 I think that was sort of a reality  check for me, to, hey, gosh, he's 81, how did he get to be that age, and I'm  looking at my son, he's coming along and before I know it, he's 12 years  old. I don't feel like we got a chance  to spend the time together that I would like to have had.   
 Kids go to school nowadays. He goes to school when it's dark and he comes  home with it's dark, so you don't see him during the week. Drivers are off some weekdays, but to spend  time with your kids and your family, the weekend is what we do. And he's not particularly a huge race fan, so  he doesn't go to the races so I've not seen much of him.   
 It was just a chance to get to know  everybody again and take a little time off and really figure out what I really  wanted to do. Since I was a kid, this is  all I wanted to do. You work and you  work and you work to try to get to the top of your sport, and again, time gets  by, but is that really what I wanted to do; 50 years old, is this what I want  to do and how much longer can I really do it.   
 Just thoughts on life and what you  want to do I guess when you grow up. It  was good for me. I got a chance to clear  my head and found out what I really wanted to do is I wanted to race and I  wanted to be in competitive cars and the opportunity sort of presented  itself. There was some great  opportunities early on like February, March with some of the startup teams that  you have that are going to be pretty darned good out of the box. And I talked to a couple of those owners and,  really, I was not ready to make that commitment, to be fair to myself. And to be fair to the teams, I wasn't able  and ready to commit to a full-time schedule at that time.   
 So that was February, March and  didn't make too much of those conversations.  They need to move forward with their race teams, and they need to put  plans together to know who their driver is, even as early as February of last  year or March.   
 So the opportunity with Robert Yates  Racing came along. And Robert, I hated  to see the downfall of that team, how far the performance had gotten off in a  fairly short period of time but there's many different reasons for that. And Robert's bound and determined to try to  build this thing back up to where it was and he's there every morning opening  the doors of the shop.  
 And I'm working with a great guy,  Butch Hilton, who is a crew chief. It's  got a lot of the right chemistry that I think can come along and we can be  good. David Gilliland, I've never had an  opportunity to really work with a driver before. I was more or less when I was in multi-car  teams was years ago and they were not successful at that time. They worked harder to beat each other in  competition and that's changed drastically.  David is a good guy to work with.  He's my size and we can get in and out of each other's cars.   
 There was many good things that I  could see on that team. And sometimes  the public just looks and says, oh, look at the performance on the team, it's  in the tank. I'm not going to fix it by  myself obviously, but I feel like I can bring some tools to the team that can  help benefit them that necessarily a young guy can't really bring. He doesn't have that tremendous amount of  background experience in all of these racetracks like I do and there's no  question that these guys can drive.   
 David Gilliland can drive as good as  anybody out there, but he has not seen these racetracks, some he has never been  to before so I can help him on that. There's  many positives there, and I was kind of excited about the challenge and I'm  back.   
  
  Q.  You basically answered a question about David Gilliland, what are your  first impressions? I know you've been  working with him in the off-season, does he have what it takes to win at the  Cup level this year?   
 RICKY RUDD: Well, you know, I haven't seen him in race  conditions. I've seen him in a race  car. I've seen him roll into Rockingham, North Carolina and he's never seen the place  before, and same with Ravenel, South Carolina (ph) a place we tested. And right off the truck I'm impressed and  right off the truck he's right up to speed.  It's not like he had to work at going fast. He's able to go fast and that's a good thing.   
 I know he's had a couple accidents  and wrecks along the way but that comes with time. To me, that's the right ingredient. It's easier to take a guy that can run fast  by nature and work at slowing him down and getting him to be smart and knowing  when to run than to take a guy that's not up to speed and getting him to go  fast that. Sometimes can be an impossible  task where you can work with a guy that can go fast.   
 He needs to learn how to race a  500-mile race, and I'm sure he's come a long way since he first stepped in the  car in the middle of the season. He's  got some ways to go, but I think those are mental things you go through as a  driver to put a 500-mile race together, and I think he's definitely going to  come into his own this coming season.   
  
  Q.  I want to ask you about Jimmie Johnson, perception sometimes that you  walk into a really great situation when he came into the NEXTEL Cup, hooking up  with Hendrick and some people wondered how he would do on a team with less  resources. What are your thoughts on his  success so far in his career, and do you think speculation like that is fair?  
 RICKY RUDD: Well, you know, I guess people always are  going to compare today's racers to yesterday's racers. I mean that's probably going to always go on.   
 Jimmie, he's great. He's proven himself. He's a champion. He's won races by being smart and his team has  been very good and it takes the whole thing.  The whole operation with 455 employees, it's a different deal. I was over there in the late 80s and early  90s, it was just a different era. They  were just getting going and taking advantage of resources they had back then.   
 They are smart and you look at these  organizations and one versus the other, it really gets back to there's smart  personnel in all of the organizations. But  you start looking at the depth of the organization, and that's when you look at  a Hendricks and you look at how much depth they have, where some of the  organizations, you know when they are at the racetrack, they have gotten a lot  of their key people at the racetrack. So  sometimes back at the shop, maybe they are spread a little thin and maybe the  R&D side of it is a little weak.   
 So two programs -- there's not time  for the R&D because they are full-time racing where an organization like  Hendricks has figured out to make the R&D side run 24 hours a day seven  days a week. A lot of organizations are  probably trying to model themselves and copy that.   
 But it gets back to the depth of the  people that they have working for them and the leadership they have on the team  is second to none. Certainly Jimmie  Johnson, what driver wouldn't like to step into an organization that isn't a  fine-tuned machine? Not to take anything  away from him, but you could take Jimmie out and plug any one of 15, 20 guys in  there and they could do the same job.   
  
  Q.  We're compiling together some of your favorite stories of Benny Parsons?  
 RICKY RUDD: Benny, hopefully he's going to come back from  this thing he's got the cancer with, but I guess he's got some injuries due to  the nature of it, I guess they are treating him. He's a class-act guy, been around a long  time, won races, won a championship. He's  well respected in the garage for sure.   
 If you watch Benny, I've noticed  him, I never heard him say anything negative about anybody. Sometimes he might elect maybe not mention  certain people but that's not always a bad thing. They always say if you can't say something  good about somebody, don't say anything at all.  That's kind of the philosophy that Benny has gone by and I don't know of  anybody that will say that Benny Parsons is their enemy because he's had that  strategy all the way through his broadcast year.   
 I'm not going to say anything too  much more because I don't want to think about the negative but I think Benny is  going to be back. He's a tough guy.   
  
  Q.  There were times last year when Robert was pretty deep down, do you see  the enthusiasm is back?  
 RICKY RUDD: Well, actually that had a lot to do with my  decision to come back. And I started  talking on the telephone. And really  from outsider looking in I'm saying gosh, they have probably the most  successful motor program in this business.  Why would Robert want the headaches?  He's not 20 years old. Why would  he want the headaches of trying to keep this organization going?   
 Why would he want to rebuild? It's not easy to rebuild. It's a tough job and a lot of staying awake  at night and thinking about different situations, different management,  different people, and I'm thinking, why would Robert at this stage of his life  not go ahead and enjoy himself a little bit.  I thought maybe Robert might go the other way.   
 I knew it was going to go one way or  the other. I knew he was either going to  step back and sort of retire and let Joe run the motor shop or be involved with  that, or he was going to say: I'm tired  of being embarrassed I'm going to roll my sleeves up and come back and make  this thing better than ever.   
 That's the Robert I saw when I met  with him. It was not the Robert that was  tired and worn out and I don't know what to do.  He's got a plan and he's got some really key people that's helping him  put this thing back together. It doesn't  happen overnight but the encouraging thing for me that I saw is I watched and  listened to the Homestead race and I saw the performance of the 38, came off  the truck fast, qualified fast, ran fast through the race until about 3/4ths  the way through the race. And I'm not  sure what happened or David made a mistake or something broke, I'm not really  sure, but anyway he didn't finish the race, he got wrecked.   
 But I think the key is the car was  competitive on the track, but on a track that's difficult to get a hold  of. I didn't find out until after  meeting with these guys that they built a couple of cars and B.J.'s got wrecked  off the truck, didn't get a chance to show what he had. He had been running the cars he had been  running in the off-season, one ran good and one didn't. That's optimistic going through the winter;  you know you have a model to clean going into the downforce tracks, so these  guys have been busy building cars like that one that ran well at Homestead.   
  
  Q.  Yesterday Dale Junior was in here saying he would like to own DEI. What advice would you give him, and why is it  so hard to drive and own a race team?  
 RICKY RUDD: I wouldn't discourage him. I guess if he's -- it's really a personal  commitment. To me the only way when I  did it and the way Bill Elliott tried it and everyone else to that point, they  sort of put your heart and soul and everything you've got into that thing and  being very hands-on and that's the way I ran our deal.   
 We had some success but you know,  you learn a lot, too. You learn a lot  about business. You learn about people,  and I think before it's over with, you probably have a psychology degree in  dealing with people because that's what it's about.  
 If he does go do that, he definitely  needs to surround himself with great people and he needs to delegate. He can't do it himself. If he tries to do it all himself, his  performance is going to suffer. His  performance, there's no way you can step in and understand all the business  aspects as big as these things are today.   
 If he can get the right people to  surround himself, go for it. If he  doesn't get the right people -- and getting the right people is one thing,  keeping the right people that's the toughest part about this business and  that's the mistake I made. I figured,  okay, I'm going to be really smart and recruit these guys and bring them  together and we have a nice, happy little team.   
 But as you start having more and  more success. People come in and they  raid your organization, they take the key people so you're constantly  rebuilding. It's not like I'm going to  hire these people once. It's a constant  struggle to hire good people, as long as he's up for those headaches and  understands that, he knows what the challenges are and is going to set his  personal life on the side, then I think he can do it. But a lot of sacrifices have to be made to do  that.   
  
  Q.  There's a handful of guys that are going to be competing this year,  yourself included, along with Dale Jarrett, Mark Martin is going to be running  part-time, Sterling; you guys are not exactly spring chickens but do we make  too much of the age factor in the sport?  
 RICKY RUDD: Well, I'll be honest, I came up, it was in a  sport I was in both spectrums. I've been  the young guy. I was 18 years old when I  stepped into the Cup garage for the first time, and at that time the guys to  beat were in their 40s. They were 45  years old and they were strong and 50 wasn't impossible. You had guys like Teddy, Baker, Pearson, a  lot of these guys I remember the first time I was 18 years old racing  motorcycles professionally, motorcross which I was in the best shape that you  could ever be in, coming into this sport of Cup racing.  
 And I remember going through the  garage looking at the old men and I'm thinking, gosh, there's no way these guys  can compete, they are not in shape, there's no way. I remember going into Rockingham, the  500-mail race, Donny Alice (ph), he had to be 45 or 50 at that time and he  lapped me for probably the 10th time that day.  I remember Donny going by, I'm halfway through the race, dead  physically; no question I was in the best shape of anybody in the garage at  that time coming off the motorcycle circuit.  Here comes Donny Alice (ph), my tongue is hanging out, he's waving with  one hand as I go by and he's waving to me, and I'm white knuckled up on that  steering wheel thinking I'm missing something here, what am I missing.   
 So to answer that question, if we're  talking about going out and playing in the Super Bowl and you're starting  lineup is the guys -- you had a choice of guys in their 50s or 20s, no question  I would line myself up with guys in their 20s because you have just the  physical beating that your body would take.   
 Race cars are not like that. A lot of this stuff is mental. So to make a long story short, the big trend  really changed when television came into this really big when everything went  national television, the big push for the young guys came on board.   
 Can they get the job done? No question about it. Can the old guys get the job done, the right  ones? No question about it.   
 Anyway to make your -- to sort of  sum that up, I don't think it's age as much as it is ability. There's a lot of young guys and old guys and  a lot of young talent, a lot of, you know, now the world is not looking for 45  and 50-year-old experienced drivers, are they out there? I don't know if you can take a 45- or  50-year-old guy from another form of racing and put him in a Cup car and expect  him to go good today. I don't think that  could happen when the young guys could be brought in and be trained.   
 That's probably the biggest  difference is young guys that are stepping in are trainable, and they had  better get it done. They have the  pressure, too, because if they don't get it done, there are ten young guys  standing behind them ready for the seat to open up.  
  
  Q.  Can you give perspective on how you can achieve this year, what is  realistic for the fans to expect, and if you could chat about the Car of  Tomorrow?  
 RICKY RUDD: To be honest I've never been good at putting  -- everyone likes to set their goals out.  If you talk to everybody, everybody is going to win every race in the  season and they are going to make the Chase and they are going to win the  championship and that's just the nature of everybody this time of year. They are putting a fresh outlook on  everything.   
 I look at it, I don't really know,  there's some big challenges in front of us.  I certainly see good things happening.  How quickly will it happen, I really don't know yet. I would not have taken this job if I thought  we were going to go out there to run 10th or 15th or 25th every week, I would  not have taken this job.   
 I'm very optimistic. I see no reason that if we don't beat  ourselves, the Top-10 is getting to be a tough deal now to make at the end of  the year. A lot of people are predicting  with he won't make the Top-30 or whatever it is, but I've always enjoyed the  challenge and liked proving people wrong.  Everything is within my control and I'm going to go out and do the very  best we can and settle for what we get, and hopefully there will be some good  finishes along the way and I wouldn't rule out anything.  
  
  Q.  When you first came to Robert in 2000, they were first off a  championship and really doing very well, and their performance waned a bit in  the years to come and especially the most recent couple of years. How bad of -- do you think Robert was really  close to shutting down? There was  speculation about that late last year before you came on board.   
 RICKY RUDD: Well, really, the way I look at it, when I  came on board I guess it was in 2000, 88 had won a championship and 28,  performance wasn't there. I'm not sure,  Owen tried his hardest and had a lot of talent.  But that's a good example of really wasn't probably truly ready for that  Cup ride when it came to him. No  question he has as much talent as anybody in the garage area but it never  clicked.   
 When he stepped in, yeah it was a  2-car operation, but at that time, Roberts organization, not only Roberts, the  Hendricks camp had not really totally gelled yet but they were coming  along. At that time in history you had  the 28 that was in a separate building, a rented building, Charlotte Motor  Speedway, and you had the 88 that was at that time they had the big budget  behind them.   
 So I guess Robert being an owner, he  shored up where the money -- he didn't take the money off one organization and  put it in the other. He kept them  separate so the 88 outgrew the 28 and when I came on board, Robert didn't know  what he was going to do with a 28 then. He  seriously thought about possibly shutting the operation down and wasn't getting  the results where it used to be.   
 I came in and it started clicking  and I brought a lot of people with me when it came at that time they had good  personnel but they had enough of it and I was able to bring some guys with me  and shore that program up; all of a sudden Robert had two teams equal with each  other, and a lot of days the 28 out performed it.  
 Anyway, I saw Robert in a very  similar situation this time as I did at that time. Only difference being is that now both teams  were not performing the way he wanted them to be. Again, and in all fairness to what Robert had  going on, he's trying to figure out how to expand 13, 14 and all that so he had  to step back a little bit to be able to, you know, to look at how to create a  plan and add more teams and such. But he  steps back, he hires general managers and he hires crew chiefs and people that  are well respected in the sport, but it just didn't click it, didn't gel.  
 So Robert, handing the keys over to  somebody else and it didn't click, it didn't happen and the team goes down in  the hole. Robert could have bailed out  and it will be the easy way out but he tries to fight and come back and build  it up again, and that's the fight I saw in Robert when I met him. That's the same thing I saw when he was  trying to get the 28 going again is what I saw here.   
 I don't think it's a question of if  it will; it's just a question of when.  
  
  Q.  You talked earlier about you needed that break to get home and  reacquaint yourself with everyone and hang out with Landon, and now you're back  and you say, Landon you don't see him at the week because he's at school and he  doesn't like the racetrack so how do you reconcile that? How do you juggle both now and make it work  for you?  
 RICKY RUDD: Probably the only thing I've got going and  it's part of me coming back is we've got a sponsor in the Snickers candy people  that they are real -- they are very accommodating.   
 Part of for me to come back there's  a lot of demands on drivers, not just personal appearances. You see them here, you see them there,  there's a lot of things that go on behind the scenes, a lot of corporate  functions and things of that nature that drivers attend. That's great.  That's not about separating the young guys from the old guy. It's more about the married guys and families  versus the guys that are being married without any children is one thing. Being single without any responsibilities or  anything, that's the big difference. I  guess that's what sort of separates things.   
 What's the best way to say  this. I guess I cherished that time  enough and the sponsor recognizes that I cherish any day that I can steal  instead of being at some function shaking a few hands, which don't get me  wrong, I understand the importance of that, but to me, I waive the two and  that's one reason I didn't step aside.   
 Now I have a sponsor that's willing  to give me a few days here and there to spend moment time that I would not have  gotten in the past, that's a big plus for me.  That's one of the reasons that I'm here today, having a sponsor that's  very accommodating in that area. It's  not going to be the same as being at home every day seven days a week, but it's  a lot better than it used to be.  
  
  Q.  There's an old saying that the mark of a good person is how forgiving  they are, when you left Yates in 2002 it was not under the best of  circumstances. Can you talk a little  about that?  
 RICKY RUDD: We had two and a half years at Yates when I  was there, it was a great situation there.  Everybody got along great and then when it turned sour. There's many reasons it turned sour and  probably don't want to get into all those, but I was letting Robert know that  he needed to have a heads up. We're not  going to be here forever, and he has no youth in the organization to take over  B.J.'s job or my job and we needed to bring somebody along.   
 It snowballed and sort of got out of  control and the next thing I know, instead of this thing being held together,  now it's just trying to blow apart.   
 And so the last half of the year  wasn't real pleasant. The sad thing,  unfortunate thing is we were on the verge of probably winning the  championship. They say we could have won  it, but we were second up until the very year one year. And that was the sad thing to see that even  though we ran well we had the championship or a good championship contention  year sort of blow up midway through the year.   
 I think time has gone by and I think  probably after leaving and looking from the outside looking in, there's a lot  of thinks that were right about it. You  know, a few things were off but there's a whole lot of things that were right  and Robert sat back and he evaluated it and he sort of came up to the same  conclusion. Sort of put bygones be  bygones and work to the future and we had that that we clicked, and let's see  if we can get it back, and it's all about people and chemistry and no question  about it. Even when it blew apart  there's always been a respect for Robert's and Doug's abilities to put together  a winning race team.   
  
  Q.  If somebody would have said to you after you left in 2002 that you would  be in this spot now, what would you have told them?  
 RICKY RUDD: Probably never happen. Like I said, time has a way of dealing with  things like that. I mentioned the other  day, you have some pretty bitter spats with my brothers and sisters again, and  I'm not going to speak to them ever again, I'm not going to see them for years,  and I'm not even going to go the Thanksgiving deal get-together, that's how mad  I am. And out now all of the sudden, a  little time goes by and everything is back to normal again, that's kind of how  this is.   
  
  
 JIMMIE JOHNSON: I am excited to get back to the track and  being in the garage area and the competitors and to be the champion inside the  garage area.   
 I'm glad it's here. I'm glad to be back in the track and glad to  be in the race car, and it's been a good off-season for me. Spent a lot of time enjoying the championship  we won, reflecting on it and just happy to be back at the racetrack.   
 I rolled in thinking, man, I won  last time we were here for this race, and same time I thought, man, also the  champion coming back.   
 So it's been a great emotional ride  for myself and the team. Last night I  took the guys to dinner and we just sat around and had some fun and talked  about the season, last season and what we want to do this year, and that's go  out and try to win another championship.   
  
  Q.  Can you tell us exactly what happened on the golf cart, and how are you  now, I guess you're okay to drive?  
 JIMMIE JOHNSON: Yeah, I'm good. As you guys know, I'm screwing around at the  golf course having some fun after a long season of racing, just having fun with  the boys, and I was up on top of the golf cart and came off and popped my wrist  in the process.   
 I've had that off-season to heal  up. The timing could not have been  better. Got the cast cut off last week,  wearing a splint here at the racetrack just to be smart and make sure that I  don't injure it or do any damage. But  when I get back Friday, should go right into strengthening my wrist and all of  the things I need to do to get ready for the 24 hours at Daytona, and I think  we go to Vegas and we're just right back in the middle of it.   
 So the timing could not have been  better and bottom line, out screwing around having fun and it got the best of  me. (Laughing).  
  
  Q.  How is the testing going so far, and did the rainout yesterday mess your  team up? Are you going to be able to  work through that and get the full day in today? And did we make a big deal about this wrist  thing in do you think it was overblown?   
 JIMMIE JOHNSON: Truthfully, I'll start there, yes,  certainly. If it impacted the season, if  it impacted my duties as a driver, then of course, you know, there's a huge  story there.   
 But screwing around, broke my wrist,  doesn't impact anything. It is a funny  story. I'm happy to see the humor in it  is turning around and coming out and it is what it is.   
 So the other side of it in testing,  if we look at the hours, we might end up getting more on-track time due to the  rain. Today the weather conditions have  been very predictable and we've been able to go out and repeat and yesterday  the wind were really changing and messing with us as the storm moved in.   
 Today is going to be a solid day for  the teams doing their single-car stuff and we'll just see how the week  unfolds. My team, we're hopeful that we  work through all of our test matrix and we can leave maybe midday Wednesday or the end of Wednesday  if that's the case.   
 But we'll just see. The track is starting to fill and everybody  has their A and B cars on the track, so you're sitting in line with 10 or 15  cars in front of you, so the progress is kind of slowing down now.  
  
  Q.  At one point people wanted you to loosen up and when you loosened up and  had fun on the golf cart, it's like has he just gone crazy. The question is, is that kind of you, just  now having more fun, and as you project to the season, do you think or the team  will change at all as you head into defending the championship?   
 JIMMIE JOHNSON: As you know I have the show on XM; you learn  a lot about myself and drivers in general.  We all do things that are quite humorous. Maybe things that are not the safest within  our profession isn't the safest thing, so it's normal to us.   
 I grew up racing motorcycles and one  of the cool moves was to jump the bike through the air and hang on the  handlebars and put your feet behind you like Superman, and that was a cool  trick and that's what I grew up doing. We're  a little skewed that way as drivers and competitors.   
 And I can guarantee you that all of  the men especially in this room have been on a golf cart and have done  something that's quite humorous or have could flipped it over possibly,  right? I hear a laugh. Just on the golf course, screwing around.   
 As far as next year going into it,  we really just want to go out and fall back on the confidence that this race  team how has. I mean, we've always been  confident. But winning the championship  I feel will really change the way we approach the year. You know, through last year we were as low as  low could be, fought back and still won the championship.   
 So I think we learned more about  ourselves through all of that and we're excited to get into '07. We feel like the Car of Tomorrow, what it  brings and challenges for that car, it's going to help the 48 team and help  Hendrick Motorsports and the current car that we have we feel like we're on top  of things there as well.  
 So we're really excited internally  with the 48 team, with Casey Mears coming on board, Jeff has another year with  Steve -- I really expect those guys to be contending for the championship and  Kyle is growing and maturing as every day.  So hopefully we get all four of those guys in the Chase for the  Championship this year.  
  
  Q.  You had some fun with the golf cart before you fell, did you do any  other things during your break that were fun?   
 JIMMIE JOHNSON: Nothing on top of vehicles by any means. I did go over to Paris and watch Travis Pastrana in the  Race of Champions, and I have to give him a ton of credit for the job he did  over there. It was really, really  amazing to watch him, a guy that really has a background on two wheels, to go  out and race against the best drivers in the world and beat some of these guys  in their own cars was amazing.   
 So spent some time in Paris and  enjoyed that with my wife and we went down to the islands where we got married  through Christmas and New Year's and just relaxed, reflecting on the  season. Some friends came on their own  vacations and spent time with friends and relaxed and recharged the batteries  really and now we're back to it.  
  
  Q.  Since Jeff won back-to-back championships in '97 and '98, the highest a  champion has finished the following year is fourth.   
 JIMMIE JOHNSON: Thanks for the bad news.   
  
  Q.  Any time. Obviously that's a  pattern that you would like to break, but have you had the conversation with  Chad and the guys with the team yet about, okay, that was great, wonderful, we  had a great time, now time to go back to work or is that coming, is that something  you're going to have as the season starts?   
 JIMMIE JOHNSON: I wouldn't say that we've had that  conversation yet. I just think we don't  assume it. Last year looking at who was  in the Chase, the dynamics in the space and the points varied and everything  going on, I think we are aware of the fact that that was last year's  championship, and this year, especially this point, it's a matter of getting  into the Chase and you have to cover that base before you look any further.   
 We know it's time to get back to  work. Last night at dinner with the  guys, we talked about it, hey, this is it, Daytona is here, we're testing. It's time to look forward to 2007, fall back  on the confidence of 2006, but we have a whole new set of circumstances to deal  with and a whole new year to worry about.   
  
  Q.  You probably got tired of answering runner-up questions last year. How did you keep your team focused on winning  the championship?   
 JIMMIE JOHNSON: Our guys really do a good job of staying  focused on the job at hand. I think we  do a good job of looking after every practice session, qualifying session,  every race, at not looking at too many outside influences. It's easy for us in some respects to stay  focused. We just have that ability and  that's what our team is about. We all  wanted a championship so bad and we've all been close as you point out. That motivation, it just kept us focused I  guess.  
 This year going through the  celebration and the highs of winning the championship, I want to do it again,  and that's the thing all the guys are saying.  It's like, man, one was great, but I want to sit at the table again in New York, I want to go through the photos,  the different places, I wants to go through the celebration again and that's  the motivation for 2007.  
  
  Q.  Talk about your experiences from last year and how they will carry over  personally for you in racing this year and getting back to the championship?   
 JIMMIE JOHNSON: I think something I needed to work on has  been the restrictor plate program and then last year with the victories we had,  I feel confident that I know what to do on the plate tracks. I still think that I need to work on Bristol and the road courses. Those are great tracks that if you're having  trouble at the start of the season, there are tracks where you can make up some  points and that's something I want to focus on.   
 I've run well and I can finish in  and around the Top-5, but I just hate the fact that I can't race for the win  with Jeff and Tony on the road course and Kevin this year when he won and Bristol, that I can't race with Matt and  Jeff. Usually Tony and some of those  guys that win at Bristol, it drives me crazy that I'm a distant third, fourth,  fifth or whatever it may be.   
 So those are the areas I'm really  going to focus on and really the way I look at it, try to bring up the low  spots and our low finishes. I think  those tracks probably are our low spots.  
  
  Q.  When it comes to your success early on in your career for a few years,  people tend to point to the team you're with, the support you have around you,  maybe not always pointing to your driving ability. Do you think that's something you'll always  find as long as you're with Hendrick, or do you think based on last year maybe  you'll start getting a little more credit individually?   
 JIMMIE JOHNSON: I don't mind taking that heat. It's kind of a double-edged sword because if  you succeed, first response is, well, he's driving for Gibbs or he's driving  for RCR or he's driving for Hendrick and if you don't make it, it's like, wow,  we're not touching, you didn't make it at Gibbs, you didn't make it at  Hendricks. It's a double-edged sword.   
 I'm glad to be on the side of it I  am. Without a doubt, if you're coming  into the cars I did or the equipment, if Jeff just came off a championship  year, I was given a lot of his cars that he won a championship with and that's  the way I started my rookie season.   
 It's a great problem to have, and  I'm happy to be in these shoes.  
  
  Q.  Curious about your wife and the role she played in keeping you together  during the Chase as far as keep you from blowing your hair out with all of the  pressure of that and being so close.   
 JIMMIE JOHNSON: Yeah, she really did an amazing job, she  always does, but through the Chase, I just needed to get away from myself in a sense and just stop thinking  about racing. And she would encourage me  to go places, do things, kept me busy, kept me occupied.   
 And on the other side, she was just  as nervous as I was, and she wouldn't let me see it. She would put it on in a convincing manner,  put on a smile and encourage me and help me and when I would be a little bummed  out about a practice session or didn't think we had the speed she would help  pick me up. So she was rock solid  through the Chase and just, you know, can't thank her enough for the support  she's given me.  
  
  Q.  This is the first time we're seeing Toyotas out there, do you see them  as a curiosity or a threat in defending why are title?   
 JIMMIE JOHNSON: I think over time they will become a threat  without a doubt. I think NASCAR does a  great job in creating the sandbox that we all need to play in and they do a  great job regulating the rules.   
 I think it's going to take those  teams some time. A lot of them are  start-up teams. To build up the  resources, to get the right personnel in place, to really succeed and compete  against the big teams in the sport.   
 Chevrolet, Ford, Dodge, all of these  teams have been in the sport for a long, long time. They all have money. Mr. Hendricks has his finances and program in  place. It takes time. You just can't come in, we know Toyota wants to succeed and they will  spend the dollars to do it, but it takes time to get the people, equipment, the  staff put together and get the momentum going.   
 I definitely feel that they are  going to be up there fighting for wins and a championship, but it just might  take them a little time is all.  
  
  Q.  Reports you were here Saturday driving Daytona prototype?  
 JIMMIE JOHNSON: No, Jeff Gordon called me and said,  "Man, you're here driving?"   
 Evidently they know you're in the  race car by your helmet and they have a code on your helmet and they plug it in  and it sends a signal out to the scoring tour and my name kept popping up.   
 I was not here, but the car was  fast, so I'm thankful whoever was driving, but I was not here.   
  
   
  End  of FastScripts…  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT