SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 24, 2007
Chip Beck
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Talk about your day. 
 CHIP BECK:  Phenomenal.  I thought we were actually going to have more wind.  They were talking about a lot of wind early from like last night continuing into midday and then kind of ending.  I was asking my caddie, I said, when me made the turn into 14 did the wind kick up or what's going on here?  Because it seemed to kick up like 25 miles an hour. 
 So what was really neat about it was, I think that the way you come out, you come out, it's like you're more in control when you know what you're going to get.  But I'm glad I finished strong today. 

 Q.  (Inaudible.) 
 CHIP BECK:  For me I kind of like that, windy/gusty, a challenge like this.  I think it gives you a sense of uncertainty.  And a sense that you better be at your best.  So I kind of like that.  And I think that this course plays well like that. 

 Q.  (Inaudible.) 
 CHIP BECK:  Like most Major championships you have to commit to where you want that ball to land and your target line into the green.  So that's, to me, the essence of a Major Championship.  So I was able to do that. 
 But a good example is like 18.  I had 150 to the hole, a little on the downhill/sidehill, the wind is crossing into me and kind of swirling into me at times.  I thought I might hit a little seven, but the harder you swing on a sidehill the more it shoots over to the right.  The wind would probably kick up and catch it. 
 So I took a little three quarter swing, knocked it down a little bit, controlled the flight, the spin on the ball, and it came up just a little bit long.  But I knew I was playing a little past the flag because all your trouble is short.  So it's pretty fascinating that it can be that challenging.  But you know what, that's what I love about it.  You just accept it and move on.  I think that's one of the great things in golf, the ability to just accept, move on, and keep doing your best.  That's going to make it a great Major Championship this week. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT