NBA DRAFT
June 25, 2015
Jerian Grant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  JERIAN GRANT:   Extremely excited.   You know, I feel like it's a great opportunity to go out there and get some wins.   
   
 Q.   The Knicks are a team that has struggled for a long time.   They needed a point guard.   What kind of an impact are you going to make right away with the Knicks?  
JERIAN GRANT:   Play‑making.   I feel like I make the guys around me a lot better.   I feel like I get them open looks and make the guys around me better, so we'll be ready to compete right away.  
   
 Q.   Usually a lot of players come to the NBA after playing one or two years in college.   How has playing all four years in college really helped you prepare for the NBA?  
JERIAN GRANT:   Just being a more mature player, physically, mentally, just all the way around.   I think I'm a more mature player and ready to handle things and ready to come and contribute right away.   
   
 Q.   Mike Brey was raving about what a good fit you are for this team.   How do you see yourself fitting with this team and playing in the triangle?  
JERIAN GRANT:   Yeah, high basketball IQ.   The triangle has high‑basketball‑IQ players, and I think I'm one of those.   I pick up on the offense really quickly and help the guys around me.   
   
 Q.   You're so close to your brother now.   How does it feel to kind of play so close to him in the same division here?   And then second, you're part of two Knicks' first‑round picks.   Did you get a chance to talk to Porzingis at all?  
JERIAN GRANT:   Yeah, being close to my brother, close to family is just‑‑ when you need to turn to those guys, they are right there with you, they're a drive away, so that's special.   
Yeah, it's funny, I actually talked to him at the hotel.   He was like, he'd be excited if he went to the Knicks.   That's actually what he told me.   I kind of smiled and laughed and shook my head, not realizing that I'd be his teammate a few hours later.   
   
 Q.   When you found out it was the Knicks, what were your emotions about that?   
JERIAN GRANT:   Yeah, I was extremely excited just to be here, just to have an opportunity to come in and make the team better and be able to contribute right away.   I think I'm excited for that.   
   
 Q.   Your father and his brother played in the NBA.   Now you're going to be playing in the NBA with your brother.   What does that say about the legacy of the Grants in the NBA?  
JERIAN GRANT:   I feel like it says that we work hard.   We work extremely hard.   We're a family that likes to come in and contribute to a team right away, and my dad and my uncle did it, and my brother did it last year as a rookie.   I'm looking forward to contributing to this team.   
   
 Q.   I know that some of the coach and some of the other guys stuck around and watched your workout.   Did you feel when the Knicks made the pick at 4, there was talk about them trading back, that becoming a Knick was a reality, or was it a real surprise for you?  
JERIAN GRANT:   It was a little bit of a surprise.   I felt like any team could take me.   I didn't think because they didn't have another pick.   But I'm excited to be here and excited to come in and help this team.   
   
 Q.   What was the best advice that you've gotten from your brother, uncle or father for being in the NBA?   
JERIAN GRANT:   Bring it.   You're going to have to bring it and continue to work hard.   Just because you're in the NBA doesn't mean you made it yet.   They said it's easier to get there than it is to stay.   I know they tell me I'm going to have to keep working extremely hard.  
   
 Q.   You're from the D.C. area.   Were you excited to go maybe possibly to the Wizards?  
JERIAN GRANT:   Yeah, I was just excited to be in the NBA.   Of course, being home would be really exciting, but I think this opportunity here with the Knicks is a blessing.   
   
 Q.   What has your Uncle Horace told you about playing for Phil Jackson?   Has he told you any stories from back in the day?   And what do you know about dunking on the Madison Square Garden stage?  
JERIAN GRANT:   I'm sure I'll have some conversations about Phil Jackson, but I haven't talked to him about that yet much.   I'm excited to play in the Garden.   I've played there a few times, had some wins, had some great moments, but it'll be nothing like putting on a Knicks jersey and playing in there.   
   
 Q.   You mentioned earlier about having a legacy of family members that played in the NBA.   Was there any sibling rivalry on the court in the backyards growing up and playing against your brother?  
JERIAN GRANT:   Of course.   I have an older brother that's playing overseas, younger brother with Philly, and my youngest.   We all were competing back then.   I think that's what's made us so competitive and made us work so hard, because we wanted to be better than the other one.  
   
 Q.   I saw Coach Brey here to support you.   What does it mean to you to have him here for this moment?  
JERIAN GRANT:   It's huge.   I owe him a huge part of my success.   Being at Notre Dame for four years, he was with me every step of the way and recruiting me there, telling me that we were going to do something special, and recruiting me back when I left.   I owe him a huge part of my success.   
   
 Q.   We talked about the opportunity to play with Porzingis and play under Phil Jackson and Coach Derek Fisher but talk about the opportunity to play with Carmelo Anthony?  
JERIAN GRANT:   Yeah, he makes the game extremely easy on offense.   When you need a basket you can give it to him.   But his play‑making skills are a skill that people don't really know he has.   The defense has to have all eyes on him, so spacing the floor and being able to knock down shots, playing with him and Kris, I think two great offensive players I think will open things up for me.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT