RCA CHAMPIONSHIPS
August 16, 1995
Richey Reneberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 

Q.  Feel it slippin away there up two breaks and had a matchpoint?
 
RICHEY RENEBERG:  Yeah, I did.  I really thought -- I didn't think I was going to win.  The 5-2 game, in particular, I didn't play a very good game at all.  I just kind of tried to -- I think when you are in a match like that against a guy like Wayne you go for it.  I tried to get too many balls in play.  It is hard.  These balls are very light.  They fly.  You swing a little easier and it just takes off.  5-4 game I thought I played pretty good game.  Both games, I didn't get many first serves in, but the 5-4 game I thought I played a pretty good game; he seemed to pick it up a level.  I don't know - I felt very, very tired all of a sudden, really round the time I served for the 5-4 game, I almost felt like I hit a wall.  I thought I was dead.  I mean, I think the third set would have been a quick one, but somehow I won - I don't know how.  
 

Q.  Have you ever been in a situation like that up 5-1 and had a matchpoint, recently lost a match like that?
 
RICHEY RENEBERG:  No, I mean, it happens from time to time.  Obviously, you try not to think -- earlier this year, I was playing Indian Wells.  I was up 6-1, 5-2 on Stich and lost that.  But I never thought about that today, though, fortunately and then,  -- but yeah, I mean, you definitely -- you start thinking a lot more.  When it's 5-All, if you serve for it, you start thinking, particularly as tired I was, I thought it was over, but I seemed to kind of pick it up in the tiebreaker; hit some good shots; went for it a little more; luckily caught a couple of lines, that was it.  He doublefaulted on the one point that. 
 

Q.  You broke him earlier in that set, talk about that.
 
RICHEY RENEBERG:  He seemed to kind of -- I think he lost his concentration a little bit.  He didn't play very good games.  I don't think it was really anything that I did in particular that was great.  It was more he kind of didn't play well.  I got a lot of balls in the court; hit a couple of good shots.  For the most part, you know, he kind of -- he didn't play very good games on kind of like I played  5-2, but I knew that he'd make a run and that wasn't going to be easy to serve it out.  I would have liked to have won one of those games. 
 

Q.  Had a lot of success here through the years, couple of semis, quarter; more or less a coincidence?
 
RICHEY RENEBERG:  Yeah, I really -- I felt very comfortable here in this first tournament, I mean, first started playing in '87 when it was on clay that -- I did pretty well; got in the quarters; ever since, I always played very well.  It is odd because every year in Cincinnati, I lose early and then I always come here and play well. So I don't know what it is.  I feel very comfortable here.  I think a lot of guys feel they have places where they play the best.  This is a place where I seem to play my best, and it is a tournament I have done very, very well in over the years.  I always kind of -- I think I gain a little confidence every time I come here; feel like even if I am not playing well, I feel like I am going to start playing well or something - yeah, I don't know what it is.  But I have always played well here.  Obviously, I enjoy the tournament.  I think everyone does.  But my results have been good. 
 

Q.  Have you met Forget before? 
 
RICHEY RENEBERG:  We have played a couple of times, yeah. 
 

Q.  How have you done against him?
 
RICHEY RENEBERG:  I remember he beat me once in the French Open; beat him once somewhere, I don't know where. 
 

Q.  Has it been a while?
 
RICHEY RENEBERG:  Yeah, a while.  We have played against each other in doubles a couple of times.  We haven't played singles in, I don't know, I think since like the French Open; maybe like in 1990 or  '91. 
 

Q.  How about on hard court, have you played him on any hard courts?
 
RICHEY RENEBERG:  Well, let us see, I think maybe I beat him in Tokyo; that was indoors. 
 

Q.  How will you play him?
 
RICHEY RENEBERG:  How will I try to play him? 
 

Q.  Okay.
 
RICHEY RENEBERG:  He obviously he has got a great serve and he backs it up with a very good forehand and, you know, I don't know, I mean, hopefully get some of his serves back and I think I have to serve well.  Today, I thought I did.  Yesterday, I served  extremely well.  Today, I served great until I served for the match; then it kind of fell apart.  Even the games I won, I didn't get a lot first serves in.  I have to get a lot more in.  Today, I think my legs got tired.  Overall, I have to play well.  If I don't play well, I won't win.  If I play well, I have a chance; probably the same for him.  Kind of, I think it is pretty even match. 
 

Q.  Good luck.
 
RICHEY RENEBERG:  Thanks. 
 

Q.  This seems to be one of the hottest summers on record.  Seems to be getting hotter in the world.  How do you guys prepare for this and what do you do?
 
RICHEY RENEBERG:  Well, I mean, there is really not much that you can do.  Obviously, you have to drink a lot of water and all that stuff.  But there is -- I don't think there is anyway to prepare for weather like this.  I remember back when I first started playing these tournaments seemed like it was this hot -- seemed to have gone in a cycle.  For the last four years, hasn't been that bad, although, I remember playing here in 1990, I think I got to the semifinals.  I was -- I think that was the year that Berger and Becker wouldn't  play until like five o'clock or something.  Obviously, been a very hot summer.  There is really no way to prepare for it other than you have to drink a lot so you don't cramp, but I mean, as far as -- even like today, I felt like I did everything properly.  I just was exhausted.  I don't know what do you for that.  I don't think you can do anything. 
 

Q.  What does it come down to, mental...
 
RICHEY RENEBERG:  Yeah, sometimes, I mean, a lot of it is physical.  If you get tired not a whole lot you can do no matter how you are good mentally. Sometimes if you just don't think about it and -- but I mean, it is hard not to at times, but yeah, I mean, I think everyone, when they play these tournaments, they expect them to be warm.  This whole circuit starts in Washington D.C.; it is obviously hot; probably over the years, has been worse than this, and Cincy and Indianapolis, obviously can be very hot, like you said, this year has been very, very hot, so... I mean, it is totally unpredictable.  You hope the U.S. Open isn't like this.  Three out of five sets like this, there would be a lot of matches that wouldn't be finished, I am sure.  I don't know, I have heard a couple of guys say they should have a little bit of a break or  something if you split sets, you should get a ten minute break when the weather is like this.  I think that would be a pretty good idea.  Seems like a lot of guys talk about that.  Lately, the Tour made a real push to speed up the game, but I think maybe certain circumstances like this, it would be nice to like take a break in between second and third set; slow it down a little bit just for the players -- 
 

Q.  Have the umpires been very --
 
RICHEY RENEBERG:  Yeah, I think they know it is hot.  They they are very, I think, much more lenient in conditions like this, but still, you never know, you still are kind of rushing a little bit, I think, because they-- if one guy is taking a long time, you got to enforce the rules.  It is not fair to the other guy.  No, I think it would be a good thing to think about, maybe seems like a decent rule; particularly when it is this hot. 
 

Q.  Do you know how much weight you lose?
 
RICHEY RENEBERG:  No, a lot of guys weigh themselves before and after.  I haven't done that.  I am sure it is plenty. 
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT