NEWSWEEK CHAMPIONS CUP
March 8, 1995
Richey Reneberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.   Obviously, there was quite a big turnaround in that match.
 What changed?

 RICHEY RENEBERG:  Well, yeah, I don't know, the game at 5-3,
I didn't play a great game.  Obviously 15-All missing relatively
an easy forehand volley. That was a very big point.  I mean, I
felt like, you know, that was that game, I still kind of went
for my shots.  I just happened to miss a couple, and when you
are playing someone like Michael or a lot of these guys, they
serve so well, you know, really the first set and a half, he didn't
serve well at all.  All of a sudden he started serving pretty
well.  So it got to be in -- the match kind of turn around.  When
I was holding serve in the first set, I was putting pressure on
his games every time; then it kind of shifted where he was holding
serve a lot easier because he was serving a lot better although
I had a lot of chances in that third set, Love-40 game, you know,
but there again, I had the one point, I had a shot at, but the
other two, he came up with big serves and very disappointing.
 I thought I played well, but I just  didn't close it out.

 Q.   Is it the kind of thing where if he is serving well like
he did late in that match there is really not too much you can
do to change it?

 RICHEY RENEBERG:  There is.  Like I said, I mean, I think in
the third set I guess he held five games and I think -- and I
think one game I had Love-30, one game I had Love-40, I felt like
there were a couple of returns I should have made that I just
missed and maybe I was kind of going for too much or something,
but I feel comfortable returning serve really against anybody
and for the most part, I thought I returned serve pretty well.
 Couple of games or couple of returns, like I said, I would like
to have back, but -- especially on this surface, indoors on grass,
not a lot you can do.  A lot of the time this is a really good
surface for any style of play and even if a guy has a huge serve,
you can still get it back or at least have a shot at getting it
back most of the time: On any surface he has a good serve.

 Q.   The first set you just seemed like you were just blowing
him off the court?

 RICHEY RENEBERG:  I was-- was serving pretty well.  I was hitting
the ball well, and I really thought I played -- I hit the ball
well.  I thought  really pretty much, all three sets, just a couple
of points here or there that, you know, made the difference like
I said 15-All, 5-3 serving, not missing that volley; I think there
was a chance; I would have closed the match out.  I remember missing
a backhand approach shot after that and -- but the first couple
of sets, his first serve percentage was really poor and any time
I felt like I had a second serve, I had a good chance to win the
point and basically the difference there was that he picked his
first percentage up; particularly when he was down Love-40 game,
he came up with -- the first ball, the first point I had a play;
I kind of missed a drop volley which was a tough shot. Anyway,
he came up with five first serves in a row or four, so any time
a guy -- you have to expect someone like Michael or someone of
his caliber going to make a run at you sooner or later.  I knew
6-1, 5-2, I knew I still had to close it out. I knew that he wouldn't
give up.  He did a good job of hanging in there and coming back.


 Q.   You have had trouble closing out other matches, right
or wrong?

 RICHEY RENEBERG:  Where?

 Q.   Throughout your career?

 RICHEY RENEBERG:  I don't know.  Can you name  any?

 Q.   Not specifically.

 RICHEY RENEBERG:  Not really.

 Q.   I was wondering if you had any negative thoughts when
you started to serve that 5-3 game?

 RICHEY RENEBERG:  No.  I mean, he is one of the best players
in the world.  First time I lost my serve, but I don't remember
having difficulty.  I played pretty well at the end of the Becker
match last summer, beaten some good players.  I don't know, if
you name a few, maybe I could tell you what happened, but --

 Q.   Thank you.


End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT