U.S. OPEN
August 29, 1994
Richey Reneberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Congratulations. 

RICHEY RENEBERG: Thanks. 

Q. Can you describe what it is like being out there going from two sets up to even and
the way it finished? 

RICHEY RENEBERG: Well, I thought the first two sets he basically kind of he played --
really, he didn't play very well at all. He basically spotted me two sets, and I knew he
was going to start playing a bit better, started to hit the ball a bit better in the
third, the fourth. The main thing is his serve had seemed to pick up. And then in the
fifth set, I never -- I didn't feel tired at all even though I had lost it relatively
easy. I felt good physically. I felt in the fifth set I was going to be hanging in there
physically and just a matter of trying to take some chances and come in a little bit. I
felt like he was starting to dictate the match a bit in the third, especially the fourth
set. And basically, it's the best set of tennis I have played in my life in the fifth set.
No way I can play any better than that. And I never have and probably never will again,
and so it is a good time for it. 

Q. He said the court was playing extremely slow, the slowest he had seen, and that it
took him an hour to get into the match. Is that something that you -- 

RICHEY RENEBERG: Yeah, it was pretty slow. But I have had basically -- a lot of
tournaments I have been playing lately have been relatively slow hard courts, so playing
in Indianapolis and then last week in Long Island, both those courts were pretty slow. And
yeah, I think generally the U.S. Open is a little faster, although I don't play on Center
Court too often. I don't know how it usually plays. Outside courts are generally a little
bit faster. I mean, if the courts were faster then it definitely would help him. I was
pretty much used to the surface, I thought; I felt all right. That is my best surface, a
slow hard court. Probably helped me. 

Q. Have you beaten him before? 

RICHEY RENEBERG: No. 

Q. He said that in the fifth set you came down to the last set and that he noticed that
you went for shots a lot more tonight than you had in the past against him. 

RICHEY RENEBERG: Yeah. I mean, I have nothing to lose when I play someone like Boris
and, you know, I can go for my shots. He is probably a little bit more tentative.
Although, he has played -- he usually wins matches like that. I mean, he has won a lot
more than he has lost and -- but like I say, there is know way I can play any better in
the fifth set; really, in the whole match. I thought that was about the best match I'd
played. Fifth set I definitely played above myself, and -- 

Q. How does something like that happen? 

RICHEY RENEBERG: I don't know. I think a lot of it -- I felt like surprised. I felt the
crowd was really behind me and it was -- kind of got your adrenaline going and I think
that helped, and just one of those times. Like I say, I mean, it's a lot easier to play
when you have nothing to lose and, you know, I was just swinging out and if I lost --
everyone is kind of expecting me to lose. If I lost I lost, but, you know, decided, like I
said, after the fourth set that if I had to take some chances try to dictate something and
I just went for my shots, and I was making just about everything. 

Q. What was the difference between this match and the Kafelnikov match on Saturday in
your play? 

RICHEY RENEBERG: Not that much. I mean, you know, like I said, this is the best match I
think I have played, so no match I have ever played compares to it really, and I thought
that really I did everything well, I mean, forehand, backhand well, served well, volleyed
well, I mean, really well, did everything really well, I thought, and I mean, difference
between that match, I don't know, I mean, I played a good match against Kafelnikov, but I
played kind of how I usually play and tonight I played much, much better than I usually
play. 

Q. How is your shoulder? 

RICHEY RENEBERG: Fine. 

Q. Did you happen to count the match points that you lost before you got to last one? 

RICHEY RENEBERG: No. I don't know. Probably five? 

Q. I think Becker put five first serves in. 

RICHEY RENEBERG: The game I had Love-40 he played very well. I kind of thought that I
was -- had a breakpoint in the next game and I had hit a good serve and I think -- yeah,
like I say I mean, he usually wins matches like that. I think he put himself in a tough
position by kind of basically giving me the first two sets. Had we started the way he was
playing in the third set, I don't think I would have won. But you know, fortunately, he
didn't play his best tonight. 

Q. You say that some point this was his game to lose. At what point did you develop the
confidence that you are going to get over and win this one? 

RICHEY RENEBERG: I never really did until it was over really. I have seen him win so
many matches like that and so many close matches and I never rely felt like I was in
control, I mean, not even close, and, you know, like I said, just one of those times I
think every athlete, you kind of have, where you are in the zone, I mean, you just feel
like everything you hit goes in; everything you can swing as hard as you want; still going
to go in, that is what kind of happened tonight. If I lost playing that way, then, you
know, that was as well as I could ever play, so... 

Q. Did you notice that this there was a distinct difference with the balls in terms of
the weight or size? He mentioned something in that area that the balls were heavier. 

RICHEY RENEBERG: Yeah, these balls -- most of the balls tend to fluff up a lot. I think
they are kind of-- I think not-- a lot of times they are not all the same, and so, you
know, I mean, but I think everyone is kind of used to that. 

Q. Not Boris? 

RICHEY RENEBERG: Yeah, maybe. I don't know. Yeah, definitely I think some balls really
fluff up. Some seem like different than others, but... 

Q. Chances for totality of the games? 

RICHEY RENEBERG: You can tell today, you can't take anything for granted. Next match I
will have to play well to win. If I don't play well, I won't win, and I mean, if I can
play like I did tonight I feel pretty good, but I probably used up a lot of my good shots
tonight. 

Q. Even if you go 'til 2 o'clock in the morning? 

RICHEY RENEBERG: Yeah. 

Q. Well done. 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT