U.S. OPEN
September 3, 1993
Richey Reneberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Talk about his serve.  His serve was just phenomenal.
 
RICHEY RENEBERG:  He has got a good serve and, you know, actually I felt like I was playing pretty well. At the end something happened with a break; I drank a lot of water, came back out, was disoriented, kind of light headed; kind of threw away the last 3 games.  I felt I played pretty well.  He has a good serve, he is a good player. 
 

Q. Obviously it helped breaking him early and I know you had --
 
RICHEY RENEBERG:  I served for second set up two sets to love; that was an important set, obviously, because I think it seemed very hot and humid out there, you know, I was disappointing up 2 sets to love.  I think I had a pretty good shot of winning.  I tried to come in that game.  I came in like three times, and he passed me three times, so that was that. 
 

Q. Was he doing something to draw you in or was that your --
 
RICHEY RENEBERG:  To come in the net? 
 

Q. Yeah.
 
RICHEY RENEBERG:  I pretty much wanted to play my game. He really didn't do that much from the baseline to hurt me and I know he is capable, but tonight, he basically just got a lot of balls back and I had chances to dictate a fair amount of the match; I felt like I did.  Just played a couple of errors and he played well.  He played well, I thought, on the big points and so that was the difference. 
 

Q. How do you assess his game he plays that flat, hard --
 
RICHEY RENEBERG:  He has got a big serve.  He is dangerous from the backcourt, you know, tough guy to play because, you know, not only does he have a pretty easy time generally holding serve, he is able to break a fair amount.  Good ground strokes, really good backhand; he moves well, and he is very strong.  You always get the impression that he is, you know, has a lot of strength and he seems to -- I think that if he serves well, has a shot, but I think he would have to be serving awfully well if he played Courier.  Courier would make him hit more balls.  He is 19.  Obviously he is going to get a lot better. 
 

Q. At this point you think he has a strategy other than thinking out there, do you feel that?
 
RICHEY RENEBERG:  Yeah, a lot of times when you are playing on hardcourt you are serving as well as he does a lot of times; I don't know how much strategy there is to it.  I mean, obviously he is a great player and has great shots.  He is strong enough, he can pretty much do what he wants.  And at least that is the way I see it.  Yeah, I mean, I don't know, it didn't seem there was much strategy in the game today as there used to be. But, you know, a lot of it is just a couple of shots hit; like a big server, and if a guy gets a first serve in, you are lucky to get the return back.  So it is more power, I think, than anything else these days.  He has got a very good power game.  I think he will be winning a lot of matches for a long time. 
 

Q. Now that the season is over I would just-- kind of assess your season.
 
RICHEY RENEBERG:  Summer.  I probably had the best summer I ever had; it is nice.  It would have been nice to end it doing a little bit better here, but for some reason I never played that well in the Grand Slams.  I actually thought, you know, this- the two matches I played- first one wasn't a long match; I thought I played pretty well.  Hopefully going into the next year, I will be able to do something in the Grand Slams, and, you know, we will see. 
 

Q. Thank you.      


End of FastScripts....
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT