RCA CHAMPIONSHIPS
August 18, 1995
Richey Reneberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  How frustrating was it going through both those delays?
 
RICHEY RENEBERG:  Really wasn't bad.  The first set, I think we were out there -- first it was very warm; kind of nice.  Second break was a little annoying.  Those types of things are the same for both players.  Actually, I mean, in a sense it helped me after the first set.  I was a little down and a little tired, I felt a little tired today, but I think the first break kind of helped me a little bit and yeah, I mean, sometimes it can be frustrating; same for both guys. 
 

Q.  You worked all the way back, maybe got him a little bit frustrated; got up that break and kind of --
 
RICHEY RENEBERG:  Yeah, I thought he played three really good points, I mean, it wasn't -- I mean, I can't really think of anything I could have done differently apart from doublefaulting at 30-Love, that is -- games like that, it hurts you to doublefault; give away a free point; kind of gets him back into it.  After that, I thought he played three real good points.  I mean, it wasn't a whole lot that I  could do. 
 

Q.  Richey, what is it about his game that makes him so hard to handle?
 
RICHEY RENEBERG:  I don't have a very good record against him.  Yeah, he can hurt you a lot from the backcourt.  That is one thing, a lot of times I play good baseliners; I have trouble with them because, you know, I try and play the same game, but I don't have as big a weapons.  I kind of have to try to be a little more aggressive; that sort of stuff.  It worked pretty well today, but when we got some rallies from the backcourt, the last two points he can just unload shots and, you know, he is a very good player.  He is someone that a lot of people don't know much about.  He is a tough guy to beat; particularly, on these courts. He always seems to play well on hard courts.  He has got a very good serve and a very good forehand and his backhand, I mean, you know, a lot of his shots, he just seems to hit them as hard as he can and they go in.  Like, I felt like that is kind of what happened in that game at 5-4 in the second, he is tough to beat. 
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT