RCA CHAMPIONSHIPS
August 17, 1995
Richey Reneberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 

Q.  It was looking pretty dark in that first set tiebreaker?
 
RICHEY RENEBERG:  Yeah. 
 

Q.  Talk a little bit about the last moments of that.
 
RICHEY RENEBERG:  Well, I mean he had been serving real well throughout and it was tough to get a real read on his serve.  It is hard to really pick where he is serving it, and I think he served at 5-4 in the tiebreaker and I just happen to hit a couple of good returns; got into the points and hit kind of a lucky lob over his head on that one point, and then served it out.  But, you know, a lot of those matches came down to one or two points.  I mean, had he had two points going his way, you know, won two points, he  probably would have won the match.  I think the first set, even though it wasn't that hot, still being the first set means a lot; once you win the first set it helps. 
 

Q.  Was the break in action bothersome at all?
 
RICHEY RENEBERG:  I don't really think so.  I don't think it really affected either one of us.  I don't know -- I don't think I won a point on his serve.  Maybe the fourth game he served, so it didn't seem to affect his serve any.  I don't think it was a factor at all. 
 

Q.  You were saying you didn't necessarily play that much better than him today; it is just that...
 
RICHEY RENEBERG:  I think I just won the right points. 
 

Q.  The crucial points?
 
RICHEY RENEBERG:  Yeah, I think the match was really even.  I thought I hit the ball pretty well from the baseline and, you know, I played just some good points when I had to, and I was a little lucky. 
 

Q.  I know you have been asked this before, can you put your finger on the success you have had here, why?
 
RICHEY RENEBERG:  Like I said yesterday, there are certain tournaments where different players,  you feel more comfortable and you have, like I said yesterday, I never do well in Cincinnati and I come here and seem to always play well.  I think even in years when I haven't played that well in Cincinnati I come here and I feel like I am going to start playing well.  It is nice.  One of my favorite tournaments; nice to do well in tournaments that you enjoy playing at and being at.  I don't really know what it is.  Other than I think the first tournament that I played back when it was on clay that I did well in, and I have just always enjoyed coming here and I seem to play well. 
 

Q.  As you move through a tournament like this or any tournament, I guess, day-to-day, does your approach daily, your mental approach or physical approach change any?
 
RICHEY RENEBERG:  Not really.  I think, if anything, the one thing for me this week is I -- as each match has gone on, I have gained a little more confidence and that, I think, that means a lot on the Tour; really, in any sport.  I mean, confidence is almost everything and, you know, it helped.  I played a very good match in the first round; that kind of -- I think helped me yesterday and yesterday's match helped me today.  But you don't really prepare any  differently.  I have been playing like eight or nine years; you play -- pretty much prepare for matches generally the same and, you know, you never go out there and play your best really.  You never, you know, overconfident or underconfident; you just go out and try and do your best and what happens, happens. 
 

Q.  Do you develop a favorite time of day or would you rather get the match over with or what?
 
RICHEY RENEBERG:  No, I generally play well later in the day.  But, I am not -- I try not to be too superstitious - stuff like that, you just try and get ready whenever you play, wherever you play, whatever, you kind of just try --  you realize each match is different; just play each one separately. 
 
RICHEY RENEBERG:  Thanks. 
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT