OUTBACK STEAKHOUSE PRO-AM
April 17, 2011
Russ Cochran
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. There were a couple holes there on the back side you certainly didn't want. Start at 14. 
 RUSS COCHRAN: Yeah, I was thinking that maybe I needed to play good, solid, strong golf, aggressive golf. I played with John maybe, oh, I don't know, three, four times, I think. Seems like every time I paired with him in the last group he ended up winning, going back to my first year on tour. 
 So, you know, I thought I was going to have to do something good. I had a little uphill lie. I thought maybe I would have a chance to get that ball on the green or well into the green and kind of put the heat on him or whatever, and it backfired. 
 Hit a poor shot; came off left, and obviously hit it in the water. Then parlayed that up with the worst lie of the week from what was it, fourth or fifth shot I guess it was, fourth shot, whatever.
 So, you know, just very disappointed in that. But after that I kind of was sleepwalking on the way in. I felt bad. I tried to get it back and make a birdie or two coming back, but the disappointment was there and couldn't really recover. 

 Q. Cook gave you a little window at 18. 
 RUSS COCHRAN: Yeah, it's kind of a weird situation. You wouldn't see John do that ever, I don't think. I think he caught a little gust and it came off a little right. You know, I didn't expect that, and certainly nothing told me that was going to happen.
 Me in the bunker over there, I did try to hit a little bit of a hero shot just in case and didn't pull it off.
 But, you know, not disappointed in my play week, but certainly disappointed from that 14th hole.

 Q. What kind of lie did you have on 14?
 RUSS COCHRAN: 14 I had a good lie from the fairway. The horrible lies were up around the green. The shot that was just in front of the bunker there was unplayable except for that little hybrid shot off the left. There was no way I could get a wedge on it.
 Of course when you hit a poor shot and you have a tough lie on the bank, things seem to parlay themselves in the worst situations. That's kind of what happened there.

 Q. You say you lost it mentally after the 14th hole. How hard is it to get back? 
 RUSS COCHRAN: Yeah, you know, it's a disappointment. I was speaking with Jimmy there, and I said, You know, we kind of program ourselves to hit shots and play and key everything around winning and performing. 
 Of course when you have a meltdown like I did on 14, you know, that disappointment rushes in. You want to just take about 10 minutes and kick it away and say, Okay, let's restart and go. But things happen much faster than that.
 To some extent I've had a lot of good finishes out here on this tour. I want to win. When that happens and you think, you know, my chances of winning went down an awful lot, it's just hard to handle. 

 Q. You had the lead, there, a three-shot lead. Your confidence must've been pretty high. 
 RUSS COCHRAN: Yeah, I played well I was up a couple. Of course, you could tell John was making a strong comeback. He missed a little short one on 13 I think it was. So that figured into it too. He was putting pressure on.
 You know, my rule of thumb - and I think it's a good one out here - if you make a mistake playing aggressively, you can live with that. You can never make the mistake of being weak or weak minded or conservative, passive, and that type of stuff.
 So as far as that goes, I would hit 3-wood again. I don't second guess that at all.

 Q. Is this a golf course you can hit good shots and not score?
 RUSS COCHRAN: This golf course is very hard. The greens got firm out there today. The greens are very, very demanding, one of the toughest sets of greens we play all year. The square footage is very small, the pin placements are very tough, you know, and the greens are lightning fast. 
 So I did a decent job of hanging in there with those three-, four-, five-footers. I'm proud of that. Kept a good frame of mind all the way until the disaster on 14.

 Q. 7-under isn't chopped liver. 
 RUSS COCHRAN: You know what, I came here and didn't play well last year. I felt like it was a golf course that if I got going a little bit I might separate myself a little bit. I'm sure John felt the same way. I had my chances, just didn't deliver. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT