MONTREAL CHAMPIONSHIP
July 3, 2010
Russ Cochran
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   PHIL STAMBAUGH: You rebounded from the double at the 4th very nicely and you're one off the lead going into tomorrow's final round. You'll play in the final group for the second consecutive week. Just a few thoughts about your round today.  
 RUSS COCHRAN: Well, I had a pretty good putter the last couple days. You know, today I didn't have real good control of my golf ball. It was wiggling and when you hit a couple of shots, you get it in the wrong direction, the wind adds to it, you're going to make a bogey or two but real happy with the way I made some putts to get myself going again on 8 and 9, and just saved some nice pars along the way and made some birdies on the back side, too.   
 So overall, got in play very well, or didn't play great, but you know, got the ball in the hole very well.   
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: Just want to take us through the round? You got off to a nice start with the birdies.  
 RUSS COCHRAN: No. 1, the wind is off the right and it's blowing hard and I know I have to hit at least 3-wood in there and I didn't really want to hit that 3-wood so I hit driver and sand wedge in there about five feet and made that.   
 Second hole, I hit a 3-wood and a wedge in there about maybe 14 feet and made that.   
 Then go to No. 4, one of the things I'm going to have to overcome out here that I can tell that doesn't suit me very well is the pace of play. You know, you get in that last group, last couple of groups, things really slow down. We had maybe about 15 minutes -- they were actually teeing off when we got to the tee on No. 4 and we waited and I hit a terrible drive and went into the branches off the left and thought I hit a decent chip, but just kind of butchered the hole altogether. Lipped out an eight-foot bogey putt, made double there.   
 And then you know, didn't play 5 all that great either and came back on 6, a real tough hole, and I hit it in the left bunker there. So, you know, pretty disappointed overall.   
 7 I hit two good shots in, driver and a 6-iron just short of the green. Was able to get that up-and-down. So was kind of reeling a little bit and came back with a nice putt on 8, so two nice birdies there.  
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: What did you do?   
 RUSS COCHRAN: On 8, I hit, oh, a pitching wedge in there I think and made it from about, oh, maybe 15 feet.   
 Then on 9, I was actually hitting it in the left rough, with a 60-degree sand wedge and I hit maybe the same thing, about 14 feet.   
 So moved onto 11. I hit a good drive and a sand wedge to maybe, you know, ten or 12 feet and made that.   
 14, I hit a driver and a hybrid over the green there and hit a great flop shot in there to about five feet and made that.   
 Made a great up-and-down on 15. Actually hit a couple of -- fairways are kind of burning out a little bit with the wind and the sun. They were a little baked on top of the slopes and kind of caught a little groove and actually hit an 8-iron heavy there and made a great up-and-down from the bunker short left there, probably 75-foot bunker shot. So happy with that.   
 Missed maybe a 10-footer on 16 and then a good 2-putt on 17 and hit a 3-wood 9-iron to about maybe eight feet or nine feet on the last hole for birdie. Are.  
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: Stat sheet shows you only have 50 putts; you've putted better than anybody in the field. Can you talk about that?   
 RUSS COCHRAN: That's the same thing, I didn't hit as many greens as I normally do, and I have hit some close ones in there, but you know, the big thing is, chipped the ball very well and had a good run with the putter, the best it's been all year. Not that I feel that comfortable over anything.   
 But I did yesterday, felt pretty good. Today, just don't feel good over it, the greens are shiny, they picked up a foot and a half, but, you know, the ball dropped several times.   
  
  Q. Inaudible?  
 RUSS COCHRAN: You know, there's a quadrant that yesterday they had the pin kind of in the middle of the green but it was on a slope and I liked to putt up the hill, it's a pretty tough putt coming down the hill and I was going to hit a little cut shot and trap it into the wind right-to-left for me, and you know, just never, never really hit it that great and got it started -- it's kind of a, you know, just kind of a poor shot. I don't know, if you were out there, I was on the right side of the green -- right side of the tee and I teed up and I was going to cut it and I didn't like the tee area and I moved all the way to the left hand side.   
 But I think that had to do -- if I handle myself a little better, when things start to slow down, I have to figure out a little system. But I kind of like to hit it and go and get ready to play.   
 You know, it just doesn't work that way out here, or anywhere else, too; if you're in that last group, it's going to take some time.   
  
  Q. The last few holes, did you feel it slipping away and start prettying?   
 RUSS COCHRAN: I've done that before. The funny thing is, if I've been striking the ball really well and hitting it really well, I would have been a lot more upset. You know, in the past year are or so, I've been hitting the ball really well and driving it really well and getting the ball to the green in good spots. I haven't done that so much this week -- my caddie, he told me I was too impatient, anyway, so you know, I thought, hey, I have a chance to win, you can afford to be a lot more patient.   
  
  Q. You're in the final pairing with John, if you're playing together, a few shots in front of everybody else --  
 RUSS COCHRAN: Not even close. You know, there are so many people, we were kind of laughing coming down from probably 7-under on, you know, I don't know the numbers, but --  
  
  Q. 28 people within two shots.   
 RUSS COCHRAN: Yeah, the thing is I know they are stacked at 9 and 8 for sure.   
 The thing is, it's a momentum golf course. You have a lot of par 5s that depending on what the wind is doing and stuff, people can get the ball on those greens in two. So some of the longer hitters, you know, they are looking to capitalize on that and you know, every one is just kind of going after it.   
 So it's definitely not -- I don't know how John feels, but I don't feel like I'm leading the tournament. (Laughter)  
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: Thank you very much.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT