SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 26, 2013
Russ Cochran
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Very tough finish for Kenny.   Did you notice what was going on?
RUSS COCHRAN:   You know what?   It's never a done deal.   I couldn't tell by the crowd, so last time I looked he was 12 under.   I didn't pay much attention to it.   And then I noticed everything was kind of quiet and I looked up and saw him at 10‑under.   But I'm not sure what happened.

Q.   He's fallen back even more. 
RUSS COCHRAN:   Yeah.   You know what?   He's playing great.   He obviously didn't finish it off or whatever, but I know he'll take it tough, I know his family will, and their friends and everyone, but Kenny's a champion, man, and you don't win as much as he has and ‑‑ you know, he putts his mind to it, he'll win tournament after tournament out here.   So anyway, I feel bad for him, but the champion that he is, I know he'll be back.

Q.   Do you want to talk about your round today?
RUSS COCHRAN:   Just putting.   The whole week came down to putting with me.   I made a couple good bombs early in the week and kind of sporadically throughout, but one of the worst putting performances I've had in a long time.   Almost borderline yips with that short putter.   I don't know how many I had for the week, but I know it was a terribly high number. 
And I hit it real good, I was real happy with that.   I think this is the second tournament I played in about maybe nine weeks or 10 weeks, something like that.   So I feel like if I kind of get that stroke back a little bit, that good things are going to happen for me.   But, boy, that putting was just slow motion just death hole after hole after hole for me.   I just felt awful.

Q.   Talk about the weekend as a whole.   This experience in St. Louis?
RUSS COCHRAN:   I knew it was going to be good here.   The people have such pride and such great fans, me being a big sports fan and Cardinals fan here as a matter of fact I've got a Mike Shannon bobblehead, the only one out right now, Mike gave it to me, sent it over for good luck.   So even with that I couldn't do any better. 
But yeah, these people took care of us.   Everything but the food.   The food was so good I think I put on about six, seven pounds.   So I'm not real happy with that.   But service has been second to none, really.   Any tournament that I've ever been to. 
I think it's, everybody needs to be congratulated.   The golf course is just fantastic and the tournament came off great.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT