U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 2, 2009
Russ Cochran
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: At 12-under par for the championship, Russ Cochran.  
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 RUSS COCHRAN: Today was a little suspect, but after playing a good round yesterday, I think I hung in there pretty well. And, you know, made some decent swings when I needed to. Made some great up-and-downs when I needed to, but a little disappointed on the effort on some of those putts. I was a little bit weak with the putter.  
  
  Q. Yesterday to today (No microphone.)  
 RUSS COCHRAN: Well, you know, after the first two rounds I sure wasn't thinking about winning. I think it all depends on the course set-up. Also, for me, you know, I cut the ball off the tee. I think the wind, the last couple days, coming a little bit more out, of I don't know, north to west or whatever it is. I think gathered my ball on the fairway a couple of tougher holes, you know, like we're talking about, 8, 9 and holes like that play tougher, 9 and 14.   
 It made holes like 16 and 18 and holes like that play easier for me, you know, felt a little more comfortable last two days than first two days.  
  
  Q. 12-under you are 7 behind the leader; that's got to be incredible.   
 RUSS COCHRAN: Well, you know, you been seeing that a lot. Freddy is -- you know, he's capable of winning on the PGA Tour. When he gets going, you know, he puts it in one direction and goes, and he has no weaknesses. And I think he, you know, enjoys being in competition. You know, I just think he was -- you know, he's just one of the great players right now.  
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 RUSS COCHRAN: I don't have any idea how all that works. I really don't. Kind of curious myself. My son and I were talking about it after the round. He said, you know, could possibly get you into a couple more events.   
 But, you know, the rules are tough to figure out on the Champion's Tour, and they're dealing with a set number of players. And, you know, the exemptions are tough to get.  
 Hopefully it will do something for me. Very, very happy with the way I played. And, you know, I didn't see it coming after the first two days, so, you know, it was a great weekend for me.  
  
  Q. (No microphone.)   
 RUSS COCHRAN: Well, I do. I'm a Tour winner and coming from Tour school, but I finished tenth or eleventh in Tour school, and that hasn't really gotten me into anything, maybe got me into one event. So that's not really working out all that well.   
 Was lucky enough to get exemption to play in the British Senior. Alliance gave me a sponsor exemption first tournament of the year, which really helped. Kind of like they say, if you can, you know, qualify for some events and get in and play well, you know, my son and I were talking, and we thought, you know, just get me a lot more used to playing again.   
 And I felt like I could maybe sneak in the, you know, top 2 or 3 anyway somewhere. I'm glad it was here. Looks like I might sneak in for top-five here anyway.  
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 RUSS COCHRAN: It's great. I had wrist surgery and two elbow surgeries. Hadn't really played for six years. Came off and on. I came back after this wrist surgery and played Nationwide for a bit. Didn't really do what I wanted to do. Came out with the yips. Had a buddy of mine from L.A. help me with the putter, so I'm kind of piecing it together, you know.   
 With being real weak on that right side I had to change my equipment, so it's been a test for me. You know, kind of just all kinds of adjustments in here. And it's coming together.  
  
  Q. Right wrist?  
 RUSS COCHRAN: Right wrist was about five or six years ago. Then I had two elbow surgeries three years after. So it's weak. It doesn't hurt, and I'm thankful, just very weak.  
  
  Q. What are your overall impressions of this tournament?  
 RUSS COCHRAN: That is the tournament. USGA, they're very consistent. I think the course set-up was good. You know, just like for instance on 18, the 18th fairway I thought was too firm, you know, most of the week and today they softened it up and made some adjustments like that. As far as the turnout, crowd turnout, hell, every single fairway starting from one that you walked down or every tee box they were applauding and wishing you well.   
 So, you know, it kind of felt like, you know, earning your jacket in Augusta or something. It was a fantastic atmosphere.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT