U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 1, 2009
Russ Cochran
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: At 8-under for today, Russ Cochran. 
 RUSS COCHRAN: Thank you. 

 Q. Great day today. 
 RUSS COCHRAN: I don't know where it came from, hit it well, obviously made a bunch of putts to go with it, so I don't know where it came from. 

 Q. How does this rank in terms of your best rounds? 
 RUSS COCHRAN: Well, you know, I would say it ranks up there, especially given the fact that I haven't played all that well this year, starting back playing, the last five or six years I haven't played that much. 
 Seemed like today I got it rolling a little bit and then it started looking good to me, and the more I made, the more I relaxed and the better shots I hit. It definitely ranks up there as one of my better rounds. 

 Q. You get it to 8-under and you're on the 16th tee and you know what you're up against. Was that tough? 
 RUSS COCHRAN: Yeah. My son and I -- he's caddying for me, I said, "Come on, we're going to play like we don't care," you know? And for the most part I did. I didn't back off any lines. You've got a lot of tough lines out here off the tee, and you have to take 'em, and if you mess up, which I have several times, you pay for it.
 But it seemed like today I stayed with the lines and everything worked out well. 

 Q. What's your son's name? 
 RUSS COCHRAN: Reed, R-e-e-d. 

 Q. How old is he? 
 RUSS COCHRAN: 23. 

 Q. Coming in tomorrow are you more confident? Is that what you needed? 
 RUSS COCHRAN: Only if I can take the same attitude. I don't particularly feel great on this golf course, I know that sounds funny after playing. Every tee shot is -- like I said, you're aiming over a rough or a mound or a knob or something, and I hit driver on the first hole today kinda out of character for me and jumped up there and said, I'm going to be aggressive and not back off any lines and see what happens. I didn't realize that the putter was going to cooperate so well, so that was an added bonus. 

 Q. Did you imagine making the jump? You're 5th. 
 RUSS COCHRAN: The day is young and I was -- I got on weather.com, or whatever it was, and they said 10 to 20, and I don't know if that was wrong or not but when they were talking about that, I thought there might be a chance where I get out and make a couple of birdies early and pick up a little ground if I shoot a couple under par, but I didn't see this coming. And the wind laid down and was able to carry it throughout the round. 

 Q. The birdies you made on 1 at Brickyard a few weeks ago looks good, huh? 
 RUSS COCHRAN: It's hard to get into this tournament. I don't know how many players there are --

 Q. 97 players. 
 RUSS COCHRAN: Is that what it was? And it was a tough day that day, the wind blew about 20. Is that a Pete Dye course? 

 Q. Oh, yes.
 RUSS COCHRAN: I'm going to have to have a talk with him. That golf course is tough, but I snuck in and I told my son, I said, "I think that's big for me" -- (lost audio.) -- signs of getting in good streaks. 
 But like I said, it was a battle the first nine for sure. And I fought with everything I had just to stay around and make the cut, and that's why you fight like that, because, you know, you might get lucky and shoot a low one. 

 Q. 8-under, is it harder to play like you don't care tomorrow? 
 RUSS COCHRAN: I'm sure it will be, but I've got to stay aggressive, and the thing is, I've been through something like this before, you know. I know all the stats and stuff. When you get around that, you know, that low round and whatever it is, the course record-type round, the next rounds are really tough. But good gosh, I think I played 600 tournaments. Surely I can come out and let it go tomorrow. 

 Q. Did you even imagine there would be nine birdies out there for one guy? 
 RUSS COCHRAN: Some of the pins -- and after the first few days, no, that's the answer to that. But some of the pins were more accessible today, at least in my mind. They were a little shorter and I don't know, maybe it was because they were just a touch firmer, but my ball seemed like it was reaching. 
 I've been coming up a little bit short, and today the ball was sneaking off the fairways a little quicker and maybe I got a little more pumped up, I'm not sure, but I hit some decent shots out there. 

 Q. When did you feel like you had something goin'? When did the score start creeping into your mind? 
 RUSS COCHRAN: I tell you what happens on a round like that for me, when you play and you get it going, you are unbelievably disappointed if you stop. If you slow down or back up or don't, you know, stay aggressive, it's just discouraging as heck, much more so than if you're not playing well. 
 When you have your thumb on it out there, you know, you have to try to keep it goin'. I made lots of putts and had lots of good things happen. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT