SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 22, 2009
Russ Cochran
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You played a couple good rounds here this week. 
 RUSS COCHRAN: Yeah, two totally different rounds though. Yesterday I hit it well, drove it in the fairway, my irons were real sharp. Didn't putt all that great, but got it around. Was kind of feeling my way around the greens. 
 Today, I don't know what happened. I kind of had a loss of energy out there and started hitting some bad shots and missing fairways and missing greens and the putting came around. 
 So I had a good short putting day, especially on the back side, but I just didn't hit any greens. 

 Q. You excelled yesterday on a tough afternoon for a lot of players. 
 RUSS COCHRAN: Like I said, I kind of felt that coming a little bit. I think these greens when they get in the afternoon they get a little bit -- and it was a hot day too. They get a little bit fast and that poa annua grows at different lengths at different times and stuff. 
 So, you know, I wanted to make sure I drove the ball as well as I could and hit the irons and I did that and came away with a good score, but very, very pleased with today's score after not playing all that well. 

 Q. Two birdies today. 
 RUSS COCHRAN: Yeah. I made a birdie on the long par-3, 13. After a bogey on 12. And I hit it in there about four feet and made that. 
 Then on the last holes I got it up-and-down seemed like over hole on the front side. 
 And then I hit one in there about 15 feet on number nine for my last hole of the day.

 Q. Is the course what you expected for a Senior PGA Championship?
 RUSS COCHRAN: Oh, I played it 15 years ago, probably, and I didn't know exactly where I was going. And I got my targets down a little bit better, but it's a very demanding golf course and very, very subtle, very tricky. 
 So you have to be in control and I think the important thing is if you do hit a bad shot, you got to get back on track as quickly as possible. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT