SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 25, 2013
Russ Cochran
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Talk about your round from start to finish today.   
RUSS COCHRAN:   A little shaky with the putter.   Especially starting off.   
Didn't play particularly well.   To be honest with you, I played such a good round yesterday that I knew I probably wouldn't play as well, but I thought I might be a little more efficient scoring and I just, it was kind of the opposite.   I was kind of sloppy on the greens and had a few opportunities there in the middle of the round to kind of get it going again and didn't capitalize on them.   So 71 is kind of the story.  
   
 Q.   Got it going on the back with the birdie at 11 and 15.   Talk about those two.   
RUSS COCHRAN:   I made a good putt on 11.   I finally hit a putt kind of where I wanted to and read it right.   I had a pretty simple putt, didn't break much.   Kind of inside the hole type put putt.   
15, I had one that broke maybe close to three feet.   So I think that was a big putt for me, because I needed to see one go in.   I needed to smooth that stroke out.   And of course when they start going in, man, you start thinking they're going to go in.   And I almost made a couple on the back, on 17 as well.  
   
 Q.   Talk about the rain delay a little bit.   Did that have any impact?  
RUSS COCHRAN:   Not really.   I have kind of been stiff.   I had a lot of time off.   I maybe had eight weeks off, I guess.   And then came back in Houston and played and then played a little bit the next week, and so I hadn't played a lot.   And it kind of felt like my rhythms, when I got a little pressure today, my rhythms weren't very good and I didn't stand over the short putts with much authority.   
I think that was the key.   I need to stand over more putts, and you can only do that by playing, competing and being in contention.   So I don't feel bad about it, but, I sure would like to have a bounce back round tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   How was it playing with your good buddy again for three straight days?  
RUSS COCHRAN:   Kenny is good to play with.   I felt like I was smart enough not to try to hit it with him and that type stuff.   And I hit it probably better and farther when I just make a nice good swing.   But knowing how he kind of gets after it and hits it, I was happy with the way I drove the ball.   
So as far as the kind of guy he is and the pairing he is, he's, I would love to play with him every week.  
   
 Q.   How do you feel going into the final round tomorrow?  
RUSS COCHRAN:   I'm a little bit ‑‑ I can't kind of wait to see what happens.   I've been so sketchy with that putter, but I've been making a lot of long putts.   Not too many today.   I made one on 15 there.   But the first couple days I made some great putts.   So that's kind of what kept me in there.   But I missed way too many easy putts.   I hit some good iron shots in there and haven't made them.   So I'm kind of anxious to see if I can stroke it a little better tomorrow.   
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT