SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 23, 2013
Russ Cochran
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talk a little bit about your round today.   
RUSS COCHRAN:   I wasn't really on too much and I've been a little rusty.   I have not played a lot.   I played at, I think it was seven or eight weeks before, I played in the Woodlands two weeks ago, and then just practiced last week.   So my scoring I didn't feel real comfortable and stuff.   
But had a great playing day.   Any time you're playing with Kenny Perry and Dan Forsman, two of the really good guys out there and they're easy to feed off of and play off of.   
So I hung in there long enough and then had a couple really good things happen on 15 and then 17, I made an eagle there.   So all in all, I didn't play well, didn't really feel like I deserved the couple under par, but I was very happy to end up 2‑under par.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about that eagle on 17?  
RUSS COCHRAN:   The thing that make it's tough, it's hard to hit that fairway, we all hit good tee shots, but when we got out there, I know Kenny had mud on his ball and I had a little mud on my ball and you're always at risk when you're taking a club with low spin anyway, with 3‑wood, and trying to hit it straight.   Mine came off real good and looked like it was going right and straightened up and went back left on the green about maybe, I don't know, 60 feet, I'm going to guess.   And I had to go up and over a ridge and then down and we had some putts in the practice round we kind of knew what it was going to do and read it perfectly.   And when I hit it, I told it to sit down I thought it might be a little too far, but boy the thing curled right in there and so that was a big hole for me.   
QUICK QUOTES FROM:  
LOREN ROBERTS   
   
 Q.   Talk for a minute about your round today.   
LOREN ROBERTS:   It was a little loose, I hit some bad shots, I mad some good up‑and‑downs and didn't quite drive it good enough to shoot low.   I feel very happy that I shot 1‑under par.   I made some good up‑and‑down, especially at the last there to kind of preserve an under par round.   
Hopefully we can hit it a little better tomorrow.   I got to drive the ball a little better, I drove it out of the fairway a little bit too much today and this rough is brutal.   
So hopefully we'll just strike it a little bit better tomorrow.   But the short game's working good, putter seems to be rolling pretty good, so if I can just hit it a little better hopefully we'll have a good day tomorrow.  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT