NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CELTICS v MAGIC
May 21, 2010
Vince Carter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Are you running for mayor of Daytona Beach? 
 VINCE CARTER: No, no, no. No, no thank you. Not now. 

 Q. Not yet? 
 VINCE CARTER: I'll wait till all my hair is gone. It's stressful. 

 Q. Do you treat this trip just like any other trip to Boston? 
 VINCE CARTER: Sure, why not? I just -- I honestly want everybody to come focused and ready to go. It seems like everybody is ready to play. I'm ready to go. Everybody is up-beat. We believe. 

 Q. Who's got more pressure on them right now? They are supposed to win at home. Their fans are telling them they are supposed to keep on. Is really the pressure more on them than us? Are they more apt for the big letdown? 
 VINCE CARTER: I hope so. I don't know where the pressure lies. It's what we need to do, plain and simple. You guys can decipher where it weighs more. 
 But I think right now it's just us being ready to play. Everybody is still believing, when we walk out this door today in this practice facility, we're going to think win. 

 Q. Stan says that's what's next, Game 3. That's all you should focus on. 
 VINCE CARTER: Absolutely. It's a one-game series in my mind. Win that one and worry about the next one another day. 

 Q. Not giving away too much, but what are a couple of things you are working on? 
 VINCE CARTER: Just execution. Playing together and continuing to defend. Just trying to limit some of our offensive and defensive mistakes. 

 Q. Are fans going to see plays they haven't seen before? Anything like that? 
 VINCE CARTER: I don't know. Just us going out there to play and our execution. I think that's the most important thing right now. Everything else should fall into place. 

 Q. Has anybody given you guys, Otis or Stan, reading material, statistics like they did in the last series? Anything like that? 
 VINCE CARTER: No. Couple of motivational things. We understand what we need to do. All the motivation we need is right here in practice every day. Just fine-tuning some things and, you know, like I said, continuing to believe. That's the biggest key. 

 Q. Are you guys kind of not paying attention to the Boston media, keeping that out of your head or your mind, whatever they might be writing or saying? 
 VINCE CARTER: I couldn't tell you. I'm not big with that. I love you guys, but I don't read you guys every day or listen. 

 Q. How much of the focus has the transition game been? 
 VINCE CARTER: That's what Rondo does. He gets up and down the floor in transition. It's important for us to kind of limit that. In Game 1 they really got the best of us with his penetration and transition, as well as the early post-ups for KG. For us, if we defend, we can create some easy opportunities, which is needed. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT