NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CELTICS v MAGIC
May 19, 2010
Vince Carter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. What's the mood like? I mean, was there a team meeting --
 VINCE CARTER: Everybody's up-beat. It wasn't even needed, to be honest. Everybody is still in the fight and ready to go. 

 Q. Vince, great players like yourself usually respond big time after the games where there's a little adversity. Talk about not putting too much pressure on yourself to come out -- 
 VINCE CARTER: No, we're just going to stick with our same game plan. Bring the effort and energy and find a way. Two tough games, we're right there. We're right there. A few possessions, a few mistakes that we made -- mistakes that we made that we can clean up, and it's a different result. 
 Like I said, the great thing is the mood in the locker room is that everybody still believes. 

 Q. Talk about that mood in the locker room where J.J. missed the time-out, you missed the free-throws. Guys aren't pointing fingers? They're encouraging each other? 
 VINCE CARTER: Absolutely. That's a sign of a great team. That's close-knit. I received a text message last night from Matt saying pretty much the same thing. Just very encouraging. It's a great feeling when you're on a team like that, because that means the team still believes. 

 Q. You guys won twice in Boston this year. You know how well, you guys have played on the road. Do you believe you can win --
 VINCE CARTER: We believe that. I don't think we need to -- I mean, need anything like that to believe. We already know we're very capable of winning on the road. So before you can go any farther, you have to win the next game. That's our goal. 

 Q. If you win one game, it turns the whole series around? 
 VINCE CARTER: Yeah. Absolutely. 

 Q. Where are you guys in that range? You said you guys are sticking together, obviously. Where are you guys in that range of being disappointed about the loss but obviously not feeling the pressure --
 VINCE CARTER: No. Everybody is good. Everybody is up-beat. Watch the film, and it's there what needs to be done. It's not anything that's too complex. We're not sitting there scratching our heads like we don't know where -- we need to clean some areas up and go out there and do it, and everybody is still in the fight. That's a great feeling. That's what makes you feel good about it, because everybody is committed to still being in the fight. 

 Q. Beyond effort and energy, Coach was talking about they have the edge in offensive discipline. I'm sure you have heard about that today. 
 VINCE CARTER: Yes. Just a few things we need to clean up. Like you said, the time-out, some of our -- making better plays instead of trying to challenge them all the time. Like I said, there's so many things. You can clean up just a few of those and your result is different. 

 Q. Seven-point difference in two games. Did they play just a little bit smarter than you guys? 
 VINCE CARTER: I guess so. 

 Q. Vince, you talked about before this series previous years letting opportunities slip. This opportunity now, do you feel a similar thing? 
 VINCE CARTER: No, it's not over, so --

 Q. No, not letting it slip. But you still have a chance to change that. 
 VINCE CARTER: Yeah, of course. The time is now. Everybody is still in the fight because of that. We feel like we still have a great opportunity here. So one game at a time. 

 Q. Do you feel like you've taken their best shot but they haven't taken your best shot? 
 VINCE CARTER: Who knows. We haven't definitely delivered our best blow. So hopefully Game 3 is the blow that we've been waiting to deliver. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT