WNBA FINALS: MERCURY v SHOCK
September 11, 2007
Bill Laimbeer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   COACH BILL LAIMBEER:  An opening statement?  Why do I have to keep doing that?  All right.  We knew yesterday, especially, and this morning that we were going to come and play a good basketball game. 
 We saw the focus in our players, we saw the Shock focus on how we do business.  A quiet, calm about us.  A confidence about us.  A determination that we were going to come and compete to win a basketball game. 
 I thought throughout most of the game our keyword today was patience.  I thought for the most part we had it.  We had our moments where we got a little helter skelter, but it was a good solid team effort across the board.  A lot of players got an opportunity to play and the one thing that we learned from a previous series, in Indiana, the calls today, the foul line disparity was definitely not in our favor.  Indiana, we lost our brain, we got frustrated by it.  And we let it affect us. 
 Today we kept our focus and played right through it.  We juggled the lineup when we got in foul trouble.  So hats off to our players for maintaining their focus, their drive and their desire to win this basketball game. 
 KAREN KASE:  Questions? 

 Q.  In the final minute of that whole high wire act, did you think that there was any particular turning point which tilted it in your favor? 
 COACH BILL LAIMBEER:  In the flow of the game, in the last minute?  Or in the last quarter. 

 Q.  Last minute? 
 COACH BILL LAIMBEER:  Last minute, no.  The last quarter I thought the turning point in the game was Katie Smith dropping like three or four in a row there.  Two three balls.  Shot with all the confidence in the world.  Gave us a big lift right there. 
 In the last minute, man, we gave them every opportunity to get back in this game.  All the second shots that we didn't put a body on anybody.  We gave them so many opportunities and we were very fortunate they weren't able to connect on their opportunities. 
 I thought that last minute was very hectic.  Fortunately we made our free throws and we got the rebound, we had to get the rebound, again, we dodged a bullet that they didn't make some of those second chance points. 

 Q.  Seems like after Saturday where the Mercury had their way, tonight you really did, you clamped down defensively holding them to under 35 percent and under 17 percent from three. 
 COACH BILL LAIMBEER:  Okay.  What's your question? 

 Q.  So obviously defense was the key for your team tonight? 
 COACH BILL LAIMBEER:  Oh, are you asking me that? 

 Q.  Yes, sir. 
 COACH BILL LAIMBEER:  Oh, okay.  I'm not sure.  I think we talked about defense a lot in the last couple days.  We know we're a good defensive ball club.  And it was so easy to write off the last game after we played it.  Because we know we didn't show.  And today was a determination about us to come out, we were going to play our solid defense, no question about that.  We were going to get dirty, get down there, and be right in their face all day long. 
 And for the most part we did that.  And I think that our determination and our willpower today is what carried us. 

 Q.  Can you talk about your back court because obviously they played huge today after striking -- 
 COACH BILL LAIMBEER:  Everybody kept saying what about your back court, what about your back court.  Do they have to step up.  And I kept saying, no, because we want to go inside.  We want to be able to make sure we can get some easy buckets and get to the free throw line if we can. 
 But at the same time, they're trying to take away some of that stuff.  So essentially we were successful in the first half going inside.  They knew that, they adjusted their defense to take it away and which opened up the perimeter game for us and our guards made shots and that was the key today. 

 Q.  How about Katie Smith in particular, the season long shooting slump? 
 COACH BILL LAIMBEER:  If you were here on time you would have heard what I had to say, but I'll say it again.  I thought the turning point in the game or the defining moment in the game was her three or four shots that she made in a row there.  The two three balls.  She had all the confidence in the world.  She knew it was her time to make those shots and she did.  And that's Katie Smith, that's who she is, she's a tremendous competitor, ball player.  And when the game is on the line, she's going to make those plays.  Nolan made some big shots too, but we all expect that of Deanna Nolan.  So that's an easy one. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Thanks a lot, coach. 
 COACH BILL LAIMBEER:  You guys can get me later. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT