WNBA FINALS: STORM VS. ACES
October 4, 2020
Bill Laimbeer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  Seattle Storm 104, Las Vegas Aces 91
 BILL LAIMBEER:   Yeah, again, we're our own worst enemy sometimes.  Our turnovers tonight really hurt us badly, unforced turnovers.  We're in a good position.  They're a very fine basketball team and you can't make those kind of blunders against them.
 I thought we hung in there for a long period of time, but our turnovers just kept wearing on us.  I thought that they made the plays when they had to make the plays.  They got some good performances from some of our players.
 But make no mistake, we had no favor from the referees today.  We only shoot five free throws and we're going to shoot more than any in the history of the league, and that doesn't make any sense to anybody.  So that was a very determining factor in this ball game where we got fouled and didn't get calls and they got fouled and they got the call.  They go to the free throw line more than us and they're jump shot shooters?  Please.  That makes no sense.
 So that was a big part of this basketball game, also.  It's not the whole story, but just a part of it, and so was our turnovers.
 So that's my opening statement.
 Q. How difficult is their depth to deal with when you consider Clark and Howard both coming out and having the games they did tonight?
 BILL LAIMBEER:   Yeah, well, that's where they're at.  Everybody knew coming in they had a full contingent and that they were going to be quality players.  We missed Hamby tonight very badly, but it is what it is.  We are who we are and we have what we have.
 They have their full squad and they keep a little bit fresher legs than we can.  But at the same time, we still have enough to get the job done.  You have to win one game before you can win three, and that's our task, win the next game and then make it a series.
 Q. I was wondering if you could talk about Cannon.  She had a really good game for you today and just the addition she's been.
 BILL LAIMBEER:   Well, we needed a physical presence and that's what she is.  A little undersized, but at the same time she's not afraid.  We knew that in the first two days we had her.  She's not afraid to go out there and do her thing.  That's what she did.
 She stays within herself, a physical player, and you saw some good post moves today, which we really needed.  It was a big boost for us today, no question about it.
 Q. After this loss your team is back in a do-or-die situation.  What do you say to your team to have them motivated to win Game 3?
 BILL LAIMBEER:   Well, you know, we know we're in a win-or-go-home situation again.  We've been there, done that already twice.  Just staying within yourself, stay within our system, our schemes, work with each other.
 Can't make the mistake.  That's the biggest thing in this series so far is we made way too many mistakes against a quality basketball team, and you can't do that.
 Q. You've talked about only getting five free throw attempts today.  Did you like the aggressiveness of your team going to the basket today?
 BILL LAIMBEER:   Yeah, I thought we were more engaged offensive-wise.  We shot a lot better.  But our normal fouls that we get didn't happen today, and we got the fouls on the other end to put us in foul trouble.
 They went to the free throw line 15 to our five.  Tell me, that makes no sense at all.  We knew what was happening in the course of the game.  We tried to play through it the best we could, but unfortunately it was one of the factors in the end.
 Q. Kayla McBride has been up and down this year.  How important was it for her moving forward in this series to have a game like she did and kind of feel that confidence moving forward?
 BILL LAIMBEER:   Well, she's going to get better open looks in this series than she did in the last series, so that's a positive, number one.
 She's making a few of them, which is great.  Out there working.  Getting a little bit tired, but we're all getting a bit tired.
 We're shorthanded.  Not going to play extended minutes, but at the same time, we have enough to get out there and win a basketball game.  When you win one game, you're ready to play the next one.
 Q. Did you like the energy better today than Game 1 from your team?
 BILL LAIMBEER:   Yeah, I think -- yeah, I think more of a calmness about us today than in Game 1.  We were a little rattled at the start, a little confused.  Today we made too many defensive blunders, left too many open shooters, especially in the first half.  They got the little comfort zone going.
 But I think overall we had a good calmness about us.  We played a decent basketball game, not a great basketball game.  We have to play a great basketball game to get a win.
 Q. To follow up, if Seattle didn't have their 33 assists or whatever it was, you guys would have set the record for assists in the Finals tonight.  Were you pleased with the unselfishness on offense, that you had so many baskets off of assists versus one-on-one stuff?
 BILL LAIMBEER:   Yeah, you know, we realized what they were doing defensive-wise, so we had a much better offensive output in this game, move the ball, move the ball, move the ball, and skew their defense.
 So I think we figured out that part.  That was going to stop the dumb turnovers and get some calls so we can go to the free throw line like we were supposed to.
 Q. Going off that last piece to the last question, have you talked to your team about continuing to be aggressive and getting into the paint, getting to the hole?
 BILL LAIMBEER:   That's who we are.  That's what we do.  Angel and A'ja, we attack the basket and get fouled and go to the free throw line.  Today we attacked the basket and got fouled and there were no calls.  It is what it is.
 It was part of the outcome.  It wasn't the whole outcome, but it was part of it, because we need all the stuff to happen good for us do what we're supposed to do, and that didn't happen for us today.
 Q. I was wondering, a lot of people are already talking about the Storm are one win away from their fourth championship, already making the narrative.  What do you have to say to fans and members of the media that are kind of counting the Aces out right now?
 BILL LAIMBEER:   Well, every time a team is in this position that's the narrative it's going to be.  We know that.  I've been down that road numerous times, and both as a player and as a coach.  All we're going to do is be ourselves and internally hang together.
 Everybody on the outside is going to be saying, oh, it's over, it's over, it's over.  No, it ain't over.  But you have to win one game, and that's our focus, is win one game.  We don't care about the series right now.  We want to win one win one basketball game so we can go for another day.
 We been in win-or-go-home now twice, this will be our third one.  We're 2-0; we expect to be 3-0.
 Q. Despite the loss, we saw strong production from many of your players today who didn't have such a great Game 1.  Could this be a confidence game for your team to come back swinging in Game 3?
 BILL LAIMBEER:   Game 3 we need production from everybody out there.  Emma Cannon gave us a great game.  Do I expect that next game?  Probably not, but however I expect her to go out there and play hard and not be afraid.  We have to make shots, but the most important thing we have to do is take care of the basketball.
 Everyone in the locker room knows the mistakes we made offensively and defensively.  It takes a little bit more effort and a lot more concentration for us to get out there and win a game.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT