NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 17, 2007
Chauncey Billups
Swin Cash
Bill Laimbeer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  So what is the controversy, they shot at the same time?   
 CHAUNCEY BILLUPS:  The controversy was -- the rule is, like if you're shooting, the next person can't shoot, they can't even touch the ball until the other person makes the shot.   
 She picked up the ball to shoot and he picked up to shoot at the same time.  One of the balls went in, we just don't know which.   
  
  Q.  Which of the three of you saw it first?   
 CHAUNCEY BILLUPS:  I think we all did.  We were all focused and hoping it was missing, anyway.  We all caught it.   
  
  Q.  You got to like having Bill Laimbeer on your side.  He's not afraid to stick up for what he thinks is right.   
 CHAUNCEY BILLUPS:  He's not.  He's funny.  He's a competitor.  And even something fun-hearted like this, just for the fans and fun, he just wants to win.  He's an animal out there.  He's hollering at the refs, he's crazy.  But you can tell his passion to win.   
  
  Q.  Were you guys a little frustrated with the clock situation in the first round?  It was getting a little screwed up?   
 CHAUNCEY BILLUPS:  We couldn't really understand it.  We couldn't understand what they was doing.  But it all worked out.   
  
  Q.  Had to create a little controversy, there, hey, Bill?   
 BILL LAIMBEER:  Who me?   
  
  Q.  They shot at the same time and you obviously thought that was against the rules?   
 BILL LAIMBEER:  It was explained very clearly to us that you can't touch the basketball until the person is finished shooting.  They didn't listen hard enough.   
  
  Q.  Who noticed it?   
 BILL LAIMBEER:  Everybody in the gym noticed it.  Everybody in our bench noticed it.   
 SWIN CASH:  Everybody noticed it.  They kept going and playing off.  We were waiting for them to finish so we could state our complaint.   
  
  Q.  You must like having Bill around because he's going to definitely say what he's going to say.   
 BILL LAIMBEER:  Go ahead, tell her.   
 SWIN CASH:  Well, I'm just here to say that I knew he would be the one to catch the mistake if there was one.  And he did.   
 BILL LAIMBEER:  She doesn't like being booed.   
 SWIN CASH:  I'm going to try to figure out how we're in Vegas and getting booed.  And I look to my left and it's all about Bill.   
 Chauncey and I are very likable.  But for some reason they just hate Bill.  And he has a theory that it's because all the Laker fans are here.   
 BILL LAIMBEER:  It's true.   
  
  Q.  Does it surprise you you're still getting booed in 2007?   
 BILL LAIMBEER:  No, the era I played in was very intense and competitive.  There was no shaking hands or hugging or kissing or anything like that.  It was, we're going to go out there and kick your butt in basketball.  And people miss those days.  So they still hang on to them.   
  
  Q.  Scottie Pippen, you beat him and he's attempting a comeback.  Does that mean you're going to be ready for a comeback now?   
 BILL LAIMBEER:  No.  I'm happy doing what I'm doing.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT