ITALIAN OPEN
October 15, 2017
Nino Bertasio
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  7-under 64, did you see that coming?  
NINO BERTASIO: I've been playing well lately so to be honest I'm not really surprised.   
 Q.  6-under through ten, what was going through your mind?  
NINO BERTASIO: Yeah, eagle on 14 was actually obviously a big help.  But it also made me very nervous because I knew from there on, it's on me.  If I start making bogeys, you know, it's me messing it up.  Which I think showed on 17 and on 18, I was a little nervous.   
You know, just pleased to finish the round with 7-under and doing it with Jon, he was great today, he helped me out.  Every time I hit a good shot, he kept telling me, "Keep it going, keep it going."  It was nice.   
 Q.  How particularly pleasing was it to hole that putt on 17?  
NINO BERTASIO: It's big.  17, it's not a long hole, but you know, and I had a wedge in my hand, and on 15, it was gusting into the wind.  We had a similar yardage, and the last thing you want to do is leave it short if the bunker because you know you're going to get a plug lie out of these bunkers.   
You know, I gave it a little extra, some adrenaline, pulled it left.  Big kick to the left, and a terrible lie.  So yeah, walking off with a bogey, and having to make, I think it was a 9-foot putt, felt actually quite good at the end.  Then yeah, making four at the last was all I needed.   
 Q.  To finish off the round like you did, how nervous were you when you teed off this morning, bearing in mind your position?  
NINO BERTASIO: No, I wasn't.  I was more nervous yesterday.  I didn't have a great warmup.  I was feeling tired.  It's my ninth week in a row.  I'm exhausted; I can't play golf anymore.   
This morning, I had a good warmup.  We figured out what we did wrong yesterday with my coach.  I was aiming a little right and missing everything left, backing off, and we had a good warm up this morning and I was very comfortable.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT