NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: STARS v DEVILS
June 3, 2000
Jason Arnott
Claude Lemieux
Petr Sykora
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Were you surprised that you didn't see Modano's line more after what happened in
Game 2?
 
 JASON ARNOTT: Yeah, a little bit. I figured we would be playing against them a little
more, but we didn't. We had -- we got four solid lines that go all the time. I guess that
we took advantage of that. 
 
Q. How much concern did you have that Larry might break up your line?
 
 JASON ARNOTT: There was no talk about it. I think last game we realized that we can go
better and contribute a little bit more and we just tried to go out and work as hard as we
could tonight. We got the bounces. 
 
Q. This morning did the three of you have your own meeting and is that something that
you guys do frequently?
 
 JASON ARNOTT: We do. This morning we were actually pretty quiet. I think we all felt
and knew what we had to do to get out of it and we were quiet right up 'til the game,
first period; then we started talking a bit and it was probably best that way. 
 
Q. Jason, both coaches said that your goal's pretty much the turning point of the game,
getting that one in at the end of the first period. Walk us through it.
 
 JASON ARNOTT: Well, it was a transition play. I came through the neutral zone and I
didn't know if Sykora was going to pick it up or not. It bounced over his stick. I got it
and just split the "D" and just kind of chipped it towards Belfour, it went
through -- 
 
Q. You guys, the way you have dominated the territorial play in this series, thought in
your room that you guys could be up 3 nothing and have a real stranglehold on this series?
 
 JASON ARNOTT: I think right now we are just looking at this game as a big positive. We
wanted to win one on the road. Now we have a chance to win two which is even better. I
don't think we can get ahead of ourselves right now. They are a great hockey team that
battles back from losses as they have proven before. I think we just got to keep our heads
up and get ready for the next game. 
 
Q. You guys had a pretty big shift right before you scored that came out of the --
after the 4-minute penalty kill. Did you guys have an extra jump because none of you guys
have been on the penalty kill; was there extra determination to get the goal there?
 
 JASON ARNOTT: Well, it was after that kill it did give us a big boost. PK has been
strong all season and throughout the Playoffs it saved us hockey games. It is one of the
reasons why we are here today. And I think we just try to go out and create as much
offense, so it definitely gave us a big boost). 
 
Q. Larry obviously has some frank appraisals. (inaudible) did you guys kind of use that
as motivation --
 
 JASON ARNOTT: I think there is too much to be said about who played bad and who didn't
in this Game 2. We play bad or we play good as a line. Tonight I think as a unit we knew
we had to go out and help the team win and we got the bounces just from hard work and
working with each other. 
 
Q. Talk about as many of the other players have about the penalty kill in the first
period and you get momentum and tie the game right away, special teams important all the
time but maybe a classic example there?
 
 CLAUDE LEMIEUX: Yeah, the guys did a great job, everyone that was involved in the
penalty killing, worked really hard and it was huge for us, down by a goal; then we had a
5-on-3 and I took a bad penalty and, you know, the guys chipped in and bailed each other
out; then came up with a huge goal, so you know, just a great effort. 
 
Q. This game seemed to be a little bit more physical than the other two with all the
penalties. Is there something that you guys tried to do in order to try and change some of
the momentum of the series?
 
 CLAUDE LEMIEUX: We knew that they would be physical in their building, but we are a
physical team and we wanted to come out tonight and show that we were going to stand up to
ourselves. Like I said, we took a few bad penalties and (inaudible) overall we did a great
job. We were physical and it was very important tonight. 
 
Q. What is your observation on what happened for Jason Arnott to have blossomed so
much? Is it just the stage, the Stanley Cup Playoffs or is it something that has changed
from when you have played against him in other cities?
 
 CLAUDE LEMIEUX: Well, he has always been known to be a great player. When he first came
into the League he put up some great numbers right off the start. For some reason, maybe
Edmonton kind of gave up on him, but I know he did really well with the Devils, especially
last year when I came over in November this year, I didn't realize how good that line had
done last season together. The three of them were probably the most productive line in the
League; probably one of the top five anyway with Elias and Sykora and Arnott. They did the
same thing this year. The three of them were outstanding all year, but I think right now
it is probably their commitment to -- their commitment to both ends of the ice, something
that Larry has made sure that they were going to get matched up against top lines and they
got to be able to play both ways and they are committed and they are chipping in in every
aspect of the game and it is a huge asset for our club. 
 
Q. Do you think you responded to Larry's criticism?
 
 PETR SYKORA: Well, I thought that we can't afford our line to be playing the way we did
in the second game to be winning in the Playoffs. I thought that we played a little better
tonight. We tried to keep it simple. We didn't try to beat defensemen on their blue line.
We didn't turn the puck over. This is the way we want to play, just chip the puck deep and
wait for our chances. I thought that we did a pretty good job tonight. 
 
Q. Can you talk about your winning goal, surprised to see it go all the way from that
distance?
 
 PETR SYKORA: Well, I think the whole couple of minutes on the powerplay we moved the
puck pretty well. We create a couple of scoring chances and powerplay, I was trying to hit
the net because I saw the goalie being screened. I think I would never score if the goalie
wasn't screened because he was playing far out. So we have to give credit to the guys
creating traffic. Because you are not going to score a lot of goals when the goalie can
see the puck from that far out. Guys are going to the net; that is how we are going to
score goals. 
 
Q. Is it hard to resist trying to beat a defensemen at the blue line?
 
 PETR SYKORA: You know sometimes you have a feeling that you can beat him, but if you --
they are -- if they are coming back 3 on 2 it is not the right play to do and both me and
Patty and Arnie, all three of us, we know that we have a couple of moves one-on-one, but
you know, I think it is better for us not try to use it because it is not going to work a
lot of times. And like I say, it is not about making offensive plays, it is about winning
and we have to play the way to win. So we can't afford doing that. 
 
Q. Has your line ever played better than they have at least in two of the past three
games?
 
 PETR SYKORA: Well, I thought we -- I think we had our best game defensively tonight. I
thought that we didn't get caught. We were coming back not only the third guy but the
fourth and fifth guy was coming back very hard too. I think that we don't want to give up
the point, a lot of shots. If fourth and fifth guys are coming back, it is tough to create
some offense. No, I thought -- we always know we are going to get our chances. We always
know it is going to bounce by maybe 2 on 1; maybe we can get 3 on 2, but I think to be
successful for our line we have to be patient, don't try to force anything and I think we
did that tonight. 
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT