OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
August 30, 2011
Mike Brewster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






 Q. There's been a lot of effort made by former players by boosters, by fans to really lend support to this team. I know there is going to be a Tunnel of Pride. You've put out a video saying how important it is and what Ohio State means. How important is that to you as a player that the former players are reaching out for the Tunnel of Pride? And how important was it for you as a leader to put out to the fans the message that this is what we're about? 
 MIKE BREWSTER: Yeah, the Tunnel of Pride is going to be pretty amazing. I think it's only been done one other time outside the final home game of the season against Michigan. And I won't get a chance to be a part of that. 
 So this is kind of cool for me. This is kind of my senior Tunnel of Pride. It's awesome. Players are showing support not only for the team. But Coach Fick, it's a stressing week for him being the first game as a head coach at Ohio State. 
 In the video, we really didn't know what that was. Coach asked us after practice to stay around, and that gentleman has done videos for us, senior parent videos, he does an unbelievable job. 
 We got to watch it last night, or Sunday night, and it is really awesome. I didn't know it was on YouTube and stuff, so I'm glad the fans get to see it as well. 

 Q. One follow-up for you guys you've been used to not having Jim Tressel around here. But for fans the first time perhaps they'll feel it is Saturday. Have your thoughts at all wondered about Coach Tressel the last month and about him in game week? 
 MIKE BREWSTER: Yeah, I mean Coach Tressel will always be with us, the values he's instilled in us. The things he's taught us, the coaching staff. Coach Fick tells us we'll have little senior meets and he'll say about what Coach Tressel used to do, and he calls him coach. He's always going to be coach to us. And I think the good thing is he left us in very good hands and he'll definitely be with us on the field. 

 Q. I guess you guys are going to be the captains for the game. What's that mean to you? And right now there are no set captains?
 MIKE BREWSTER: Things are different this year. It's Coach Fick's decision to make everybody a part of it, and I think that's great. We need everybody this year. It's not about a few people or four seniors, it's about everybody. 
 We'll rotate. I'm not sure how it's going to work, but I'm honored to be part of the first game. I don't know if I'll get another chance or this is it. But I'm going to enjoy it, and make the best of it. 

 Q. Coach talked about Joe Bauserman and Braxton Miller not having a lot of experience, he was talking about you being a senior that's played a lot. What do you see your role in terms of helping those quarterbacks as they dive into their first really significant action? 
 MIKE BREWSTER: Yeah, I can't do too much for them, but the thing I can do is make sure they're protected. Make sure I've got the line all on the same page. Make sure that I am picking up the blitzes with different calls and putting them in a position to be successful. By doing that, I think it will make them feel more comfortable in the pocket, give them more time, and let their receivers do what they need to do. 

 Q. J.B. was in here a moment ago and he mentioned that the offense was less complicated right now. Was it more complicated last year? Were things too complicated for you guys? 
 MIKE BREWSTER: You know, the offense is hard to learn here. It's very complex. I would imagine more complex than most college programs. I think the thing Coach Fick said this week is he wants us to be very sharp and play very fast. Doesn't have to be complicated. It's simple, but we need to know what we're doing and do it well. 
 I think he's done a great job in camp making sure that's what we've done. But we've been doing some different things on offense, and it will be good to do it on Saturday. 

 Q. Any disappointment on your part with this being your senior year and not having the opportunity to be a team captain for the whole season? 
 MIKE BREWSTER: It would have been cool, but it's not about me. It's not about any individual this year. I'm more worried about the team. Like I said before, I'm here to make sure this team moves forward and help Coach Fick any way I can. We've been staying strong through camp, staying pretty healthy. We've got some guys nicked up. But I think overall it's about the team and about this 2011 Buckeyes. 

 Q. For the first few games with Mike Adams out and Corey Linsley, the depth chart shows a lot of inexperience behind you on the offensive line. Just talk about what you've seen from those guys that are backing you up? Do you feel like you're thin up front or do you feel those guys will be okay? 
 MIKE BREWSTER: I'm not going to lie, we're a little thin. But once we get Mike and Corey back, that will help a lot. But we've got some young guys that are trying to step up. It's just hard. Offensive lines are very hard positions as a young guy. There are so many things you ever of to think about, and when you're thinking, you can't play as fast and you can't use good technique. 
 We're trying to get them up to speed as best we can. And I'm not sure who is going to play on Saturday as far as some of the younger guys, we'll see who can handle it and go from there. 

 Q. Going into the season you lost your head coach, your quarterback's gone, you've got three guys on offense, starters who can't play. Lot of people looked at it and would think you all would be sort of fractured right now. But once gives you the sense you all aren't? 
 MIKE BREWSTER: Camp was awesome. Lots of energy, lots of emotion. It's the first year in camp. Guys get mad and angry and are hitting the same guys every day, but no one was fighting in this camp. I just feel like it's a really tight brotherhood. We've been through a lot together, and I think we're going to use that to our advantage.

 Q. In the past you've had very specific benchmarks you wanted to reach each game. I believe it was 300 yards passing, 200 rushing, zero turnovers. Anything like that this year? What are your goals as an offense? 
 MIKE BREWSTER: We have quite a few goals for an offense as far as what Buckeye leads we can get. There are a ton of them. I couldn't really run them off right now. But thing is run consistency, pass consistency, short yardage, goal line type stuff. So our goals haven't changed on any level. 
 I think that's been good that the coaches have made sure to make sure we know that. 

 Q. You've got a new head coach, new quarterback, but will people notice any difference from the offense from a year ago to this year? 
 MIKE BREWSTER: It's pretty much the same. We are doing some new things. I'm sure you'll see soon enough. So I'm excited about it. I think it adds to our offense and it should help us. 

 Q. You mentioned in camp that you've practiced with a lot of emotion. That can be dangerous too. How do you make sure that when you're playing on Saturday and really every Saturday going forward that the emotion is in check and you were able to play at your highest level?
 MIKE BREWSTER: Yeah, the emotion, Coach Fick just didn't want us to be flat in camp. It gets hard with two a days, you're tired and you're sore. I think it helped us pick us up and even just playing a little music during practice sometimes helps. 
 But on Saturday I'm sure a lot of emotions will be going through me and through all the guys. I think we're just kind of anxious to get out there. 

 Q. What are you most curious to see Saturday? 
 MIKE BREWSTER: It's funny you ask because people ask me, are you scared for this season? Are you nervous? Are you worried? I'm none of those. I'm just anxious. I'm anxious to see what young guys are going to step up. Brown had a great camp. I'm anxious to see if he's going to be a play maker this year. I know he's got the ability and he's going to be showing it during camp and what running back is going to step up? 
 We have all the talent. It's just exciting to see who is going to take that role. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT