BIG TEN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
March 4, 2020
Carolyn Kieger
Kamaria McDaniel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Minnesota - 85, Penn State - 65
Q. First, thoughts on your team's performance today?
CAROLYN KIEGER: Yeah, I loved our fight there in the second quarter. I thought we shared the basketball well, our time per touch. Second half I thought we got really selfish on offense. Our discipline and our lack of habits and our bad habits show up during a 40-minute game, and we just got to spend this entire off-season to get better. We've got to be way better.
Q. Kamaria McDaniel today, what did you think of her performance?
CAROLYN KIEGER: Yeah, she drew 11 fouls, and the way she attacks the rim with the ball in her hands is elite. What we're working on is trying to make her a complete player, I'm excited for an off-season to work with her and fine tune her game and help her understand what it means to be an elite-level guard.
Q. How much improvement did you see from Anna Camden today?
CAROLYN KIEGER: Yeah, I thought she shot the ball really well. She spaces the floor for us. The whole freshman class, we've got to learn how to play some defense. It's a huge liability for us, and we're spending a lot of time in the off-season working on that.
Q. Where did you see improvement over the course of this whole season? Tough season, but you had to see some improvement.
CAROLYN KIEGER: Yeah, I think where I saw improvement was our offensive spacing. I thought improvement was culture and holding each other accountable, seeing and telling the truth, and work habits, and that's the foundation and that's where we start.
Q. Where do you go from here?
CAROLYN KIEGER: Yeah, we keep recruiting. We keep making our players better. I'm really big on player development, so I'm really excited for an off-season to push this team to another level and to push the individual players to something bigger than they've ever seen and work harder than they ever have.
Kamaria McDaniel
Q. Just your general thoughts on today's performance from both you and the team?
KAMARIA McDANIEL: I thought we started off strong. I was disappointed for us to kind of let up and let them take the lead like that, and it's something that's hard to claw back from. I thought our first-half performance we persevered, but it wasn't enough, and we've got to stay consistent in the second half.
Q. What do you think allowed you guys to get ahead there in the second quarter, take that lead into halftime?
KAMARIA McDANIEL: We had a lot of energy, and our confidence was high, and I think that's half the battle. If you're not confident, you can't do much. I think we were very intense in that second quarter, and that's what leads us. It's not skill, it's the intangibles, and I think we brought that in the second quarter.
Q. You were able to draw 11 fouls today. What did you see out there from the defense and what allowed you to get to the bucket with ease?
KAMARIA McDANIEL: Coach encourages us to be aggressive in transition, and that's what I try to do for our team.
Q. You're going to be heading into your senior year next year. How can you use the momentum of this season and your performance this year to kind of lead the team in this new direction?
KAMARIA McDANIEL: I just need to focus on learning the game so I can help my team win, and that's the only thing I'm focused on. None of my personal accolades matter. I'm trying to win.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT