TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN BY THE MINISTRY OF YOUTH AND SPORT
November 15, 2014
Marcel Siem
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How excited are you with a round of 66 out there?
MARCEL SIEM:   Yeah, it was pretty nice.   We didn't get it going at all this morning.   It was quite funny to play three rounds in a row with the same guys, and Sergio played really well, as well.   He shot 65 today.   Yeah, it was really nice.   Back in contention now, see what happens tomorrow. 

Q.   What made the difference to get you going?
MARCEL SIEM:   My game was pretty solid and I hit them really close today.   Doesn't feel like I holed a lot of putts.   I hope I'm going to hole a few more putts tomorrow, and very, very satisfied.   I played very solid again and iron shots were very good today.

Q.   I take it the course was entirely different to the start of the week. 
MARCEL SIEM:   It was nice and firm.   Now it's soft.   It still plays tough, I think, because if you're in the rough, you're really struggling and it's tough to get them on the green from out of the rough. 
The par 5s are the key holes.   If you hit it on the fairway, you always have a nice chance for eagle or birdie.   You have to be a bit patient on this golf course.

Q.   You are delighting a lot of people because you kept The Race to Dubai alive now. 
MARCEL SIEM:   I was waiting for that question.   When I was going down 18‑‑ it's a little bit more interesting now for everybody, and for sure, I'll give it a shot tomorrow, try my best.   That's what we are out here for, and there's why it's called Race to Dubai.   I will do my best tomorrow to keep it interesting for you guys.

Q.   I know you downplayed it at the start of the week, but when you're in this kind of position, it does ramp it up, doesn't it? 
MARCEL SIEM:   All of a sudden it does, yeah, you're right.   I didn't want to put too much pressure on myself.   Looks like I'm not in the last group tomorrow unfortunately.   Just can't wait to go out there, have a good rest now and hope that my ball‑striking is as good as today and the putter is hot.   Can't wait to go. 

Q.   One little word about the support you're getting, because this is like playing at home, isn't it?
MARCEL SIEM:   Yeah, it's cool.   I think it's like 50, 60, 70 German people around, and on the first tee, I get the biggest clap.   It's tough, usually if Sergio is on the tee box together‑‑ to get more claps than he does, is pretty cool.   Yeah, I hope there's going to be more tomorrow and like I said, the 12th man on the pitch is always good. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT