BRITISH MASTERS SUPPORTED BY SKY SPORTS
October 15, 2016
Marcel Siem
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. This is a lovely position in to be in, isn't it?
MARCEL SIEM: Yeah, definitely.  Really, really pleased.  I was tell my wife in a text on Wednesday, it's actually the first time I feel like I could win a golf tournament again, and I'm really, really pleased that I'm standing here and can talk to you.  It's always a good sign.
Q. This is because you are 100 percent healthy, I hope?
MARCEL SIEM: Yeah, my shoulder doesn't hurt at all anymore.  It feels great.  I did kind of a reset five weeks ago with my coach, Günter Kessler, and really thankful that he got me back on track somehow, so feels really, really good at the moment.
Q. I imagine this is an understatement, this must be hugely frustrating, because it has been such a long time, hasn't it?
MARCEL SIEM: Yeah, it was very long.  I think I didn't touch a club for six or seven weeks for the first time in my life since I'm six years old.  It was kind of cool because I was able to take the kids out on a proper holiday in the summer to see Europe, actually see how beautiful Europe can be.  I think all the golfers, they don't know that.
Yeah, it's perfect.  I'm really, really happy that it feels good.
Q. While you wouldn't have wanted that break, are you going to see the benefits from it?
MARCEL SIEM: Yeah, I mean, I felt very rusty and the confidence is very low.  I'm 374th in the world.  I had a look yesterday.  It's terrible to look at that number.  But the motivation is different.  Really want to get back on track and try to get back in the Top-50 in the world.
Yeah, the frustration is gone after this round today.
Q. And when you've had five birdies in the last six holes and you're right up there, I take it the competitive spirit is right there for the Sunday?
MARCEL SIEM: Yeah, I think you know me a little bit; I will give everything tomorrow, and that's why I love this job so much.  To play in front of the crowds, the cameras are there all of a sudden and playing under pressure, there's why I love this job and it's why I do it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT