OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 9, 2012
Marcel Siem
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   There's plenty of positives in a round like that?  
MARCEL SIEM:   Yeah.   Definitely.   Yeah, I mean it's always a pleasure to play a golf course like that in that shape, and I had a really nice start on the second hole to hole a long putt to go one under.   That always helps in the mornings to wake up a little bit, 7:30, and on the third was a nice birdie as well, and from then on I had really good shots.   
I don't know if I missed a lot of fairways.   I think I only missed two fairways from that point on.   And all my iron shots went straight at it, which was really nice.   And to make the putts, it's always nice when you watch yourself make the putts, and yeah, it was great.   I'm really, really pleased.   I'm happy.  
   
 Q.   And you chipped in as well, which really tends to make you feel this is going to be my day?  
MARCEL SIEM:   Yeah.   I think I was two under ‑‑ yeah, I was two under, and I chipped in on the sixth, and it was not an easy chip either.   It was downhill part of the rough, and I said to make it ‑‑ I always take the pin out.   I don't like to see the pin when I have a chance.   When you visualise you want to hole a chip shot or something, I always take the pin out, because I think even when it goes slowly and hits the pin, there's a possibility that it doesn't go in, so I don't want that.   
Yeah, it was really good, and next hole, I hit a good shot as well after that and got the momentum a little bit going.   13, I had a mud ball.   That didn't help.   That was a good shot.   Actually went sideways.   Got lucky, it was on the trap in a way.   It could have been worse, and just didn't make the birdie there.   And 15, 16, 17 were really nice, nice birdies.   And 18 I had a mud ball again, but I didn't see that one, so yeah, got to six.   Seven under is a good round and looking forward to the weekend, to tomorrow, first of all.  
   
 Q.   And essentially that's a step up on Doha last week, which had a lot of promise, didn't it?  
MARCEL SIEM:   Yeah.   I guess I had a few hiccups there, a few stupid mistakes, which I didn't do today.   That was nice, and I think that's how you ‑‑ that's the only chance of finishing up five or winning tournaments is stop making the stupid mistakes and taking the big numbers out of play.   A bogey on the par five is actually a big number already.   I had a little hiccup in a spot today then.   But no, I'm really pleased.   It's going the right direction still.   
   
 Q.   In the scheme of things at 7‑under it's a tiny hiccup.   
MARCEL SIEM:   Yeah.   That's right.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT