3 IRISH OPEN
July 29, 2010
Marcel Siem
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Good start, isn't it. 
 MARCEL SIEM: Yeah, a bit slow at the beginning, I didn't hit the ball really good. I was a bit rusty after the Open. I didn't hit a ball for six days. I had played eight tournaments in a row, I had one week in between, so I was -- ran out of fuel. I said I'm not touching a club. 
 So I felt a bit rusty today I have to say. My wedges, I didn't hit them close at the beginning. Then came a little run at the end, three birdies in the end and par on the 18th unfortunately but pretty steady golf, no bogeys. 

 Q. And that was kind of just nudging yourself, saying, come on, time to get moving?
 MARCEL SIEM: Yeah, three weeks off after that, you know, still a chance to -- I was pretty close the last couple of weeks. Didn't move up in the World Rankings a lot, and my goal was actually to get to the top hundred and maybe qualify for the PGA. 
 So it was a last chance this week and have to get the job done here, but, well, it's just the first round but good position again and try my best.

 Q. Sounds like it's been frustrating for you with those rankings then. 
 MARCEL SIEM: A little bit. France and Loch Lomond and St. Andrews, I was doing really well, actually, and you know, I finished between 18th and 26th every week, and not really moving up the rankings. I was steady and my prize money was okay, but World Ranking-wise, was not -- didn't move up. I think I moved up 30 spots in three tournaments. And felt a lot better, actually, and obviously had my bad shot every round on Sunday. I didn't shoot 75s anymore which was good, but I have to finish it off nicely and have a top three finish or something like that to make a big move.

 Q. So what do you think is possible around here?
 MARCEL SIEM: Today there's no wind and it's played pretty easy, I have to say. It's a beautiful golf course. You can shoot low. But, you know, top three, that's my goal, and, well, you have to shoot low every day. It depends. If we get some wind, I think it's going to be really tricky, the course. The course needs a bit of wind, because then you see a lot of high numbers, as well. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT