COMMERCIALBANK QATAR MASTERS PRESENTED BY DOLPHIN ENERGY
January 24, 2008
Marcel Siem
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Tell us about a good day. 
 MARCEL SIEM:  Yeah, I hit a lot of fairways, a lot of greens and just went for the pen on 11 and actually I said I'm not going for any pins today, so that was my second hole and got my bogey straightaway.  I was like, okay, are we going to play safe, like last week and next week as well.  So just get momentum somehow and then get a bit of confidence and then I can win a tournament, as well, or again, I have to say. 
 So I dropped the ball very nicely and the putter got hot at the end.  I was struggling with my iron shots and holed a few good putts on the last and on the 7th.  Pretty pleased, I have to say. 

 Q.  You mentioned the wind.  I suppose it's pretty stiff, but not as stiff as it can be. 
 MARCEL SIEM:  I think we've played in stronger winds before.  But the course got a bit long.  We have a few new tees out there.  I played last year, so there are a few new tee boxes I haven't seen.  Like especially 11, that's a long hole.  That's always a driver and lob-wedge and 12 as well and now you have 8-irons and 6-irons in there.  I think it's like two shots more difficult. 
 But we've got the rough, which is pretty easy, so I think it equalizes it a bit. 

 Q.  Do you feel inspired to do well after what Martin Kaymer did? 
 MARCEL SIEM:  That was the word I missed in my other interview; I'm very much inspired by Martin. 
 I'm an honest guy.  I said to him, it was just so nice to watch him playing and how easy he's doing it.  I just remembered how easy going I took it when I came on Tour and the last two years I got a bit tight. 
 I just went out today and tried to have some fun actually like I did the years before. 

 Q.  So you kind of saw the relaxation that he showed most of last week and thought, got to do that yourself? 
 MARCEL SIEM:  Yeah, how calm he is already for his age and how cool he is.  Yeah, that's how I was when I came on Tour, as well, and just trying to get it back now. 

 Q.  How was that whole experience of actually being a spectator last week?  Not many pros would go out and follow their colleague as you did. 
 MARCEL SIEM:  It was pretty exciting I have to say.  But as an amateur, I did it a few times when I played for the northern part of Germany against the southern part or something. 
 It was the first time.  I had another cap on, so maybe the spectators didn't come up to me and ask me a lot of questions.  A few guys came up to me and it was just more SKY Sports were coming up to me -- just joking. 
 Especially 17 and 18 when he bombed his driver.  I was like, okay, I'm going out there now and support him a bit but never thought it would be that exciting. 

 Q.  And you had planned the celebration with the champagne? 
 MARCEL SIEM:  Yeah, like I said, I ordered it before but I didn't pay it because I think that could be bad luck if I paid before.  With six shots leading, that sounds very, very easy to do but it's never easy to win a tournament, doesn't matter how many shots you're in front.  So I didn't pay it and then I just went into the clubhouse and paid the champagne, the bottle was ready and gave him a shower. 

 Q.  The last thing Martin said to me was he expected a very hard night.  It wasn't quite like that, was it? 
 MARCEL SIEM:  We tried but there was nothing to do around Abu Dhabi.  We went to a few bars and they were just empty and the other ones were full of strange people and we didn't want to stay with these people.  It was a shame, actually, but, no, we're going to play well this week and we're going to have a big party together in Düsseldorf. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT