WGC BARBADOS WORLD CUP
December 10, 2006
Bernhard Langer
Marcel Siem
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
 MARCEL SIEM: With the great man. He's a legend, especially for Germans and for  I think everyone in Europe. He's a legend.   
 Yeah, today was the first time where  I actually hit the ball really, really nice and I hit them close, as well. I drove it close at the beginning so make  some birdies and put some pressure on the others.  
  
  Q.  Still looking very tight out there at the moment.   
 MARCEL SIEM: We just missed one fairway, one green today  and that was 17. A bogey straightaway  and 18, the putt was pretty quick and finished that had one on the wrong side. Just a little bit too much pace and we had  15-under or something.   
  
  Q.  Couldn't leave Bernhard with a 6-footer.   
 MARCEL SIEM: He can do it, no problem, but not right on  the 72nd hole, I think.  
  
  Q.  Obviously there's a good bit of golf to be played out there but overall  the two of you have really done the country proud.   
 BERNHARD LANGER: We've had a great week and we've had just a  great week no matter where we wind up. It's  fun to play with each other I think and he played flawless today, really,  really good stuff.   
  
  Q.  This is a day where you could not afford to make almost a single  mistake.   
 BERNHARD LANGER: We were too far back, we had to go low and we  didn't get much going at the beginning. We  were hitting fairways and the greens and the putts were not dropping and we got  a bit on a roll. If we had made those  two last putts, which were not too far away, about an 8-footer and a 10-footer  or whatever, it could have been an incredible score.   
  
  Q.  17 could still be the winning score.  Do you feel that looking out there that someone will maybe get to 17?   
 BERNHARD LANGER: This is not an easy hole. Depends on the wind. But 17, 18 are tough driving holes. They are not easy holes to finish when you  know you have to do it. We'll see,  whatever happens, we're happy where we are.  
   
  End  of FastScripts…  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT