PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2015
Marcel Siem
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Talk through the hole.  Give us a perspective of the finishing hole there on 18.  Another good round today.  What was the key out there for you?
MARCEL SIEM: I played a lot better yesterday.  Today was a bit of a grind.  The conditions were a lot easier today.  My driver didn't work that well.  So grinded nicely, holed a few putts, very happy with the score.
Q. The Open Championship and the U.S. Open, what was your approach heading into this PGA Championship, the final Major of the year?
MARCEL SIEM: I missed both Majors by one shot as well and I wanted to take it easy.  I did a lot of fishing this week.  My golf was good enough, I thought, and I wanted to enjoy myself on the lake a little bit.  So I think that was very important for me.  I did a lot of work with the caddie and Jim Murphy, my two coaches, to be mentally fit.
Q. So one of the signature holes is the finishing hole, 18.  Just talk through this, if you can.  We talk a lot about this Pete Dye design.  Visually intimidating off the tee.  Describe what you see.  Is it typical of what we see at Whistling Straits?
MARCEL SIEM: You've got a lot of bunkers on the left side.  The left side is most of the time where the danger is.  And the tee box was pretty far back.  Into the wind, you want to carry the traps here, so I hit it right about there, hit a great drive there.  A full 4-iron into it.  And I don't have that very often on a par-4, a full driver and a 4-iron.  I hit a great 4-iron, it just bounced in and landed there and unfortunately missed the birdie putt, but I think this is one of the toughest 18th holes I've ever played.
Q. Heading into the weekend, great position, the wind could pick up this afternoon, how are you feeling about things?
MARCEL SIEM: It would be great.  If it's like yesterday afternoon, it would be fantastic.  I hit a lot of pulls today, so I have to grind that out.  I think it was my takeaway.  I was a little lazy in my back swing, so I kept my hands a little closer to the body.  That's what I got to grind out on the range now.  Do some putting and then try and catch some fish.  I haven't caught a fish all week, so that would be fantastic.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT