AT&T PEBBLE BEACH NATIONAL PRO-AM
February 14, 2015
Marcel Siem
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   9‑under par, did you know you had a chance at the record playing the 18th hole?  
MARCEL SIEM:   No, I didn't know.   I thought somebody shot lower here before, but it wouldn't have changed a thing.   
I hit a great drive.   My lie was a little scruffy on the second shot.   I duffed a 3‑wood.   I thought I hit it great but it didn't go anywhere.   
It's a shame, but there's another chance tomorrow, I'm super happy, honestly.   First time over here, such a lovely scenery.  
   
 Q.   Was it the chip in at 4 that really got your round going?   You missed the green to the right and then you hit that super flop out of the rough, right into the cup.   
MARCEL SIEM:   Yeah, I mean it's two good shots first five holes before already and I mean, that gets you going with an eagle.   That's always nice.   
I missed the last two cuts in Dubai.   I had a few swing changes in the winter and it didn't work out at all and I was just waiting for something like that happening to get a bit of confidence back.   And after that I hit really, really good golf shots and I'm over the moon, really, especially on this golf course, the scenery and playing that golf, it can't be better.  
   
 Q.   Then the eagle for you at 6?  
MARCEL SIEM:   Yeah, that loft shot was pretty cool.   When I hit it, I knew it was going to be very good, but I always need a bit of luck when the ball goes in.   But, yeah it was cool.   The crowd, a few high‑fives there and it was good fun.  
   
 Q.   For your first round in this tournament at Pebble Beach you set the bar pretty high for the remainder of your career, you know?  
MARCEL SIEM:   That's true.   That's true.   This golf course has so much more to give than only a low score.   I mean like I said, the scenery is fantastic.   And I think even when you play badly, the golf course is so nice you don't really get upset.   So I don't know, 63 is tough for me to beat in the future, but we will see.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT