FLORIDA STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 9, 2019
Cam Akers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Florida State, 38 - Boston College, 31   
 Q.  With the way this week started, to end this with a victory, what does this mean to you guys?  
CAM AKERS: Means a lot for this team. Just shows that we play for each other regardless of else is going on around us. As a team, as players, we go out and play for each other. I think you seen a lot of that today.   
A lot of people want to play for their brother, for the man next to them. When we play like that, good things are destined to happen.   
 Q.  What kind of unifying presence is Odell?  
CAM AKERS: Great presence. Coach Odell, he wants to do everything the right way. He wants is to win more than anything. He wants is to be successful as a team and individually, each player individually.   
So, you know, he pushes us in practice, he pushes us in the film room and the weight room just to be best you can be. Never take a day off. Never settle. Go out and be the best you can be.   
 Q.  You've been a leader for this team. How proud were you of this team showing the resolve that they had coming out and getting this win?  
CAM AKERS: Oh, I'm very proud of our team. We came out is showed a lot of resilience, a lot of fight. We were down at halftime; we came out and we dominated. We showed we can come back and play Florida State football through all the madness, the things we've been going through throughout this past week. We showed we can go out and keep playing football. We play for each other.   
 Q.  When did you guys have an idea Jordan might get some opportunities? And to see him flourish in his chance, what does that mean to you guys?  
CAM AKERS: We had an idea earlier in the week. He was working all week getting reps. Just to see him come out and dominate the run game like that, you know, that's just crazy. That's amazing to me. He came out and I think he rushed for 100 yards, three carries, two touchdowns. That just speaks for itself.   
 Q.  DJ's touchdown, what you did you see on the play and what it was like to see him make a critical play in that moment?  
CAM AKERS: I saw DJ being DJ. That's the type of stuff I've seen him do since high school. For him to go out and make the play -- you know, I think he's been feeling a little sick today, and he still came out and gave the team everything he had.   
So for DJ to go do that, that just shows the character he has and the fight he has for our team. He came out and made plays for us and we couldn't be more appreciative.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT