AUGUSTA NATIONAL WOMEN'S AMATEUR
April 4, 2019
Sofia Anokhina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What emotions were going through your head?  
SOFIA ANOKHINA: Well, I knew that on 17, I made a bogey and I kind of had a feeling because we talked to my coach yesterday and my caddie about it, and he was like, if you go 2-under, that would be kind of the score, kind of based on the first round and obviously today is tougher conditions, tougher pins, but I was just kind of really committed to the fact that the cut line probably will be somewhere around 3-over, and I didn't want to play with the Devils.  I hit a good drive and that's all really I needed.   
I had a 3-hybrid into to the green and I was like, you know, what I can go for it.  Unfortunately my ball had mud on it but I was just like, you know, it's all right.  I can get it up there.   
When I got to the green, obviously I had kind of a weird lie uphill.  Really simple chip, but I was like, you know, what I've been putting really good all day long today and I was like, I can do this.  I have no -- I wasn't stressed or nervous.  I wasn't anxious at all.  It was just that confident, like, I got it.  Like, I can do it.  It was probably the best feeling ever, and I made the putt.   
And I couldn't figure out the break, but when you can't figure out the break, you're like, just play it straight and really hard, so I went with that.  As simple as it sounds, yeah.   
 Q.  Looks like you were pretty happy when you came over and saw your boyfriend?  
SOFIA ANOKHINA: Yeah, I definitely did.  He came in today and he came in on the hole No. 6 and hole No. 7, I made an eagle, so he got to see that.  That was cool.   
He's actually playing hockey and his number is 7, so every time I get on hole No. 7, I'm like, hole 7 just got to be lucky for me.  That's what I thought again today and obviously he was there and I was like, okay, let's go.   
He told me, that's a drivable hole.  He's like, "Eagle it."  And a hole later, I'm eagling it.  I'm, like, okay.   
Yeah, it was exciting.  It's exciting to have my coach here and exciting to have my sweetheart here, too, supporting.  It's really cool.   
 Q.  How long was the putt on 7?  
SOFIA ANOKHINA: I went over the green -- I putted but it was like maybe 18 meters.  It was down the hill so literally went -- literally hit hard, the stick and just dropped down.   
 Q.  You said 18 meters?  
SOFIA ANOKHINA: It was quite a bit yeah, because I went over the right side and it didn't trickle to the left and I stayed on the right side.   
 Q.  Presuming you get into the final round Saturday, what does that mean to you?  
SOFIA ANOKHINA: Well, we don't know that yet.  There's a lot of golf left for other players out there, but being at this special is just something special.  I talked about excellence for the last few days and I think it is an excellent golf tournament to represent your country and represent the community that's behind me, which would be obviously all of the Russia and ASU, so I'm really honored.   
 Q.  What kind of support do you get?  
SOFIA ANOKHINA: It's actually great.  Some of my coaches are juniors and his players actually came up with a new hash too long and it's a hashtag #augustaanokhina and it's kind of cute and funny.  I don't know how that tended up being out there but I thought it was really cool.   
You know what, when I saw that, it was awesome and I saw people tagging it and reposting it, it's like a trend out there.  Obviously it's not a very golfing community, so having at least 50 people knowing about it is huge.   
 Q.  What are your earliest memories of watching the Masters or Augusta National?  
SOFIA ANOKHINA: I heard about it at the age of 13, 14.  I wasn't really that interested in what's going on outside of my world which is Sofia World, and within Russia, and when I heard about the Masters, that was pretty cool and when I heard about the big names, I thought that's awesome.  I started watching it and I thought that looks like the most perfect, excellent golf course out there and amazing and honestly unbelievable almost.  Because until you really get in there, you can't imagine what is in there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT