WEETABIX WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 1, 2004
Rachel Teske
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DANA VON LOUDA:  Rachel, 2 under 70 today, just some comments on the day.
RACHEL TESKE:   Yeah, I started off well with two birdies on the first two holes and then birdied 7.  And then didn't have a taste for the putts too well on the back nine, but hung in there and some closed with some good shots on last three holes so that was good.

Obviously, Karen's round, you couldn't ask for any better being British and being able to do it in your home Open.  That would be a dream of all of us, I think.  That's pretty impressive.
Q.  What was it like for you to see someone start out their round eagle, albatross.  Did you see the scoreboard?
RACHEL TESKE:   Well, I didn't actually     I didn't know     up to 9 hole, I didn't know exactly what score she was on.  I just knew  she was doing well.  I don't really take much notice of it.  I didn't know until the 18th green when my caddie, Sean, pointed out, we both looked at the leaderboard and he said, is that right?  I knew she's obviously playing well with an eagle, albatross or whatever, got it going, and 8 under, it's a fantastic round.
Q.  Did you know you were tied at one point?
RACHEL TESKE:   Yeah, you knew somewhere around the back nine there.  Yeah, so you're still    I knew I was still in contention.
Q.  Does that make you put more pressure on yourself when you see that?
RACHEL TESKE:  I stayed pretty patient.  I felt like I was in control all day.  I played really solid all day, really.  Two bad drives on 12 and 15, just not great concentration.  I felt like I was in control there and played really solid.
DANA VON LOUDA:  Let's go through your card.
RACHEL TESKE:  First hole, I chipped from about 20 yards, I guess.  Made a putt from five feet for birdie.
DANA VON LOUDA:  What club did you hit out?
RACHEL TESKE:   Second shot I hit a 7 wood.

The second hole, I hit a 5 iron to about 20 feet, two putts for birdie.

On the 7th hole, I hit a 5 iron to 15 feet, made one putt for birdie.

On 10, I hit a 5 iron on to the green in two, and two putts for a birdie.

12, I missed the fairway left and had to chip out.  And then hit a 6 iron on to the green and two putts from about 20 feet for bogey.

15, hit a 4 wood on to the green and 3 putted from about 30 feet for bogey.
DANA VON LOUDA: Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT