THE NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 25, 2001
Rachel Teske
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
RACHEL TESKE:  My one birdie was on No. 4.  Hit the fairway and just hit short of the green.  I hit a good chip but it didn't run out as much as I thought and then had 2-putt.  
 
Q.  How far?
 
RACHEL TESKE:  About six feet, I guess.  That was it.  
 
Q.  Did you have many chances coming in?
 
RACHEL TESKE:  I didn't really give-- hit a lot of greens on the back nine but really didn't give myself realistic birdie chances.  Had a good chance on 18 and probably hit my best putt of the day there and didn't drop.  But yeah, just didn't really give myself good birdie chances.  I hit the greens but I always seem to be sort of the ridge and the pin was back or I'd be back and the pin was front.  I was sort of in between.  Just didn't get those bounces up.  .  
 
Q.  Can you give us a sense of what it was like trying to catch somebody who is playing virtually flawless out there not making any mistakes?
 
RACHEL TESKE:  Yeah, Annika played great and she did play flawless.  She hit a lot of good shots and a lot of good putts.  Around this golf course you just have to hit good shots.  And my goal all week was to hit if the fairways and make the most of the birdie chances I could give myself.  You just -- when Annika is on or you are not playing well like she is, you just have to play better.  It is tough to do.  So you just try to hang in there and give yourself the best birdie chances that you can.  
 
Q.  Is this the best you have ever seen Annika play?
 
RACHEL TESKE:  I haven't actually played with her a lot.  Today was pretty good.  She hit all her tee shots really well and her irons pretty much on except for a couple I guess.  But everybody misses a couple. She rolled the ball really well putting so you know, I don't personally if she has played better or not.  She played very good today very well very steady.  She seemed to time the ball very well.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT