THE NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 24, 2001
Rachel Teske
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
RACHEL TESKE:  The 1st hole I hit a 9-iron in to about 20 feet, made the putt for birdie.  No.  6, I hit an 8-iron to about six feet, made the birdie.  No.  6, I hit a 7-wood off the tee, yeah.  No.  7, I hit a 6-iron to about 15 feet, made the putt.  No.  12, hit a 7-iron to 15 feet, made the birdie.  No.  14, I hit an 8-iron to about six feet, made the birdie.  15, I hit another 8-iron to about 20 feet, made the birdie.  
 
Q.  No birdies at the par 5's.  Did you have chances?
 
RACHEL TESKE:  Let's see.  No.  2, I had a good chance.  Well, I was short of the green about 20 yards.  Really should have made it there.  No.  9, I was about 80 yards out for my third shot, and hit a pretty good shot.  Where else?  11, I missed the fairway there, so I had quite a long birdie putt there.  No.  18, I hit it past the hole, long putt there.  Probably 2 and 9 were my best chances.  
 
Q.  You've had some pretty good rounds at this tournament the last couple of years. 
 
RACHEL TESKE:  Yeah.  
 
Q.  Is this just someplace that you're comfortable?  Is this a tournament that you aim for at the start of the year?
 
RACHEL TESKE:  I really like the golf course here.  I just feel comfortable playing it.  You've got to hit your driver really well.  I feel like you have to shape the shots off the tee a lot.  I feel fairly good.  It's always a challenge to be able to draw and fade the ball, and I really like that.  You know, you just like the tournament, probably because mostly it's one of my favorite courses.  I feel like I can play really well.  When I putt well, you make a lot of birdies, end up with a good score.  You know, since I've been able to play this tournament, it's been one of my goals really to win it because I love the golf course, and I just love the setup of the tournament.  
 
Q.  Is this the first time you've been in this position in a major?
 
RACHEL TESKE:  Yeah, I think it probably would be.  I haven't really played well in any of the majors that I can remember.  I have a bad memory anyway.  
 
Yeah, I think it probably definitely is.  
 
Q.  Will it worry you tomorrow? 
 
RACHEL TESKE:  No. 
 
Q.  What is your thought process right now?
 
RACHEL TESKE:  Well, today it was, you know, to drive the ball well and hit it in the fairways and make birdies from there.  I think it will be the same tomorrow because the rough is thick, and you really have to hit it in the fairway to have a good shot at the hole, at the pins.  So tomorrow, you know, probably pretty similar mindset:  hit the fairways, make the most of my chances of birdie.  
 
Q.  When was the last time you had this good a putting round? 
 
RACHEL TESKE:  Let's see.  I had a couple of good rounds in Phoenix last week.  I think I had two 67s there.  I putted fairly well that week, as well.  
 
Q.  How have you been putting during the year?
 
RACHEL TESKE:  Putting pretty solid during the year actually.  I started putting well in Florida at the beginning of the year, then didn't putt so good for a few weeks after that.  Now it's coming back.  Sort of comes and goes.  I always feel like I putt fairly well.  You know, there's just days where I make a lot, and there's days where I hit a lot of good putts and they don't go in. 
 
Q.  Any impatience not having won last year after the two wins the year before?
 
RACHEL TESKE:  Not really impatience because I feel like my game has improved so much from when I won.  I feel like I'm going to be able to put myself  -- put myself in contention a lot more now because I feel I'm a better player now than I was then.  I know I'm going to win sometime soon.  You know, it will come.  
 
Q.  Did you approach today's round any differently from the first two rounds?
 
RACHEL TESKE:  From the first two rounds?  
 
Q.  Yes. 
 
RACHEL TESKE:  I guess today I was probably just really  -- I was really focused on playing well because Pat was out there at 6-under.  You know, I really feel since the off-season, this is one tournament where I really wanted to play well.  I feel this year I want to play a lot better in the majors.  I guess Pat being 6-under, I really had to get out and play well today.  I was really determined to do that, hit the fairways, give myself the best chance to do that.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT