MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY AIG
June 7, 2003
Rachel Teske
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.  Thank you for joining us.  I know it's been an interesting day.  Do you just want to talk about how you feel with today's schedule?
RACHEL TESKE:  Yeah.  I guess it's disappointing to have such bad weather today, and have it cancelled, today's round postponed, I guess, but I got off to a good start this morning, even though it feels like it was so long ago, it's only a couple hours, I guess. 
Yeah, and I played pretty solid, but you can't do much about the weather.  It's disappointing, because the course is in great shape, and I would have loved to get out there and play.

Q.  What do you mean  "good shape," is it playable?
RACHEL TESKE: No, it's not playable, but I mean, through the week the superintendents have had the course in such good shape, it's disappointing that the weather has come in and made it unplayable.

Q.  What will be the most difficult thing about tomorrow, trying to come in and finish the third round before the fourth?
RACHEL TESKE:  Probably just keeping your concentration for two rounds.  It will be such a long day.  And the course is playing so tough, that it's going to be tough to just be able to focus on every shot and stay patient, I guess.  7:30 a.m. tee-off's aren't really that much fun, either, 5 :00 o'clock wake-up call.

Q.  Rachel, when is the last time you played 30-plus holes in a day?
RACHEL TESKE:  I can't really remember.  I think we played like 27 in Atlanta at Chick-fil-A.  I can't think of two rounds in one day for a while, though.  I have got a really bad memory, I am the wrong player to ask.

Q.  You can just make something up, we won't know. 
You must have done this as a kid quite a bit, didn't you.
RACHEL TESKE: Yes, most of the junior events and amateur events are 36 holes.  Actually, the State team, when you played the Australian championships back then, you play 36 holes every day match play for like four or five days against the other state teams, which is pretty tiring.  I think, even now a lot of the junior and amateur events are 36 in a day.

Q.  Rachel, for the brief time you were out on the course today, what kind of things did you notice about the conditions, like was there water pretty much everywhere?
RACHEL TESKE:  Well, it was kind of a bit of a misty drizzle when we teed off so it wasn't that bad, the fairways were still really soft, but the greens, especially like number 3 and 4, I guess because they seemed to have a little bit of a drainage area down in the middle of them, so the water does tend to kind of fly down there. 
Even yesterday, that area of the green was getting really worn, just because it  -- a lot of people were walking up and down the hole, and so when I was on 3, I thought it's definitely looking like it could go pretty soon, and it was still only like a drizzle, and by the time I got to 4, the rain was a lot heavier, so I kind of knew that the course couldn't take much more.

Q.  Rachel, if the weather is a bit dodgy tomorrow, or the course conditions, and you guys can only get in the third round, do you think, this being a major, it's important to make it 72 holes and go into Monday?
RACHEL TESKE:  Well, I guess  -- I guess, you know, like the officials and the tournament sponsors and the superintendents have to get together and kind of see what  -- you know, what would work best, I guess. 
You know, you would like to see any tournament finish 72 holes, especially a major, and everybody is playing so well that, you know, if it's good weather, we would love to play, but there is so many different factors that kind of enter into making a decision, you know, kind of see what happens.

Q.  Do you think it should, I mean, assuming the weather is decent for Monday?
RACHEL TESKE:  I would like to play 72 holes because, you know, I am six shots behind.

Q.  How much would endurance be a factor if you do end up playing 30-plus?
RACHEL TESKE:  Tomorrow?  Yeah, it's  -- physically and mentally, is pretty important, because, you know, physically, like the course is soft and so it's harder walking, like at the end of the day my feet have been real sore just because it's a bit harder walking, and then the course is so tough, mentally, you can't miss a shot.  You have really just got to make sure you put your best swing and best thoughts into every shot.

Q.  Is it tougher staying focused mentally more than physically?
RACHEL TESKE:  For me, yeah, it probably would be.  Yeah, just because the course is tough, as well. 
Sometimes when you are feeling a little bit physically tired, you become mentally tired, too, so it's probably  -- I think you just have to be more aware of getting mentally tired out here.

Q.  When the conditions are like this and things are kind of up in the air, does that give any advantage to the person who is ahead who is trying to hold on, or does it help the pack maybe catch up?  Is there any edge either way?
RACHEL TESKE:  You know, it's kind of tough because you just never know.  Like today's round could have been cancelled, so all of a sudden the girls that have had a bad day, are thinking, oh, thank God I don't have to worry about my bad score, but the girls who are playing well say, oh, I have made all these shots, now I am back to square one. 
It's just really tough, because you just really don't know which way it's going to go, you don't know if it's going to be 54 or 72, you don't know if you are going to play 36 tomorrow, so I really don't think that far ahead.  Even today, I thought chances were we weren't going to be out there too long, but I really wanted to get out there and play like I was going to be out there all day.

MODERATOR: Okay.  Any other questions? 
Q.  Rachel, when play was suspended, were you on the number 4 hole  -- you were on the green.
RACHEL TESKE:  4 green, yeah.

Q.  Do you prefer starting tomorrow morning with a driver or starting with a putter?
RACHEL TESKE:  Putter is probably a little easier, but then the 5 tee, it's a tough par 3, as well, so that will be my first iron shot.  I guess you would like one of the easiest holes to start on, and I guess we are not going to be there, so  --

MODERATOR:  Okay.  Anything else?  All right.  Thank you, Rachel. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT