MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY AIG
June 6, 2003
Rachel Teske
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.  You brought it back on the back 9, so you must feel a little bit better heading into tomorrow.
RACHEL TESKE:  Yeah, I am.  I hit the ball pretty solid and three-putted 7, and missed the green on 8, and hit two bad chips and walked away with a double, so it was pretty disappointing but it felt like it was just a couple bad chips, and I was hitting the ball well, so by the time I got to 10, I just thought I would see how good I could play on the back 9 and see what would come of it.

Q.  Was it the rough that got you on those chips?
RACHEL TESKE: Yeah.

Q.  Whereabouts?
RACHEL TESKE:  I was probably level with the pin left of the green on the uphill slope.  And I played the wrong kind of shot, I was trying to play a bit of a soft shot up and sculled it to the outside of the green, and then I was in the rough and played the wrong shot again.

Q.  Did you make the green?
RACHEL TESKE:  For what shot? 

Q.  Second one.
RACHEL TESKE: No, I was three to the green, I went to the right side of the green.

Q.  But on the second chip, did you make it?
RACHEL TESKE:  I pitched to about 10 feet.  It wasn't a good chip, either.  No worries.  And my putting didn't feel all that good until probably the last four or five holes I started to get a better feel for it, but I really hit the ball pretty solid.

Q.  Does the course play any differently today than yesterday?
RACHEL TESKE:  It played pretty similar, really.  I guess it was  -- we didn't have as much wind, or it wasn't as cold, so  -- but, you know, off the tee the balls were still stopping right where they landed, and greens were still soft. 
And playing in the afternoon, the greens were a little bumpier, especially around the hole, it was pretty worn out, but other than that it was pretty similar to yesterday.

Q.  Going into tomorrow, obviously there is a weather issue, number 1, and there is also the issue of who is most likely going to have the lead.  What's your mind-set then?
RACHEL TESKE:  It doesn't really matter who has got the lead and it doesn't matter really what the weather is like because everybody is competing in the same conditions, especially here, it's a two-tee start tomorrow, so most likely we will be all playing in the same conditions. 
Somebody asked me if I like playing in the rain and I said, "We are sort of getting used to it because we have had a lot of bad weather recently, but it would be nice to play in nice weather because the tournament deserves a good turnout and good scoring," but hit the fairways, hit the greens, it's a priority this week no matter where you are because the rough is so thick you don't really have a chance unless you hit the green.

Q.  How daunting is it to try to make up four or five shots on Annika when, A, she seems fairly determined to do better in this major, and, B, she seems to be playing well?
RACHEL TESKE:  Well, you know, you have got to play your best, if she is ahead, I guess she will be four or five ahead, or whatever.  It's great to see her play so well, and it's great to see her motivating.  I think it helps everybody else bring out the best of their games, as well.  But, you know, as I said, like the fairways -- the golf course is playing so tough that the priority is to play as well as you can and focus on the fairways and greens and see how it goes.

Q.  Who how much do you know about Hee-Won Han?
RACHEL TESKE:  Not a great deal.  I just know that she has an Australian caddy.  That's about it.  She is a nice girl.  So no, I can't help you with her English.  She is a nice girl, though. 

Q.  Are you playing well enough to win?
RACHEL TESKE:  Yeah, I think so.  I feel pretty -- I feel like I am hitting the ball really solid, and I am able to work the ball both ways, which is an a really good thing for me, and then my putting feels really good, too. 

Q.  You played with Annika once, it was Trump, right?
RACHEL TESKE: No, I didn't.  I didn't play with her in the final round.  I played with her last week.

Q.  It just seemed like it was pretty much you two at Trump?
RACHEL TESKE: Yeah, she was in the group ahead.  I am pretty sure  -- yeah, she was in the group ahead at Trump on the last day.  I played with her last week.

Q.  But it was pretty much you two neck and neck toward the end?
RACHEL TESKE: Yeah, we were.



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT