MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY AIG
June 5, 2003
Rachel Teske
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.  We will go over your score card last, but if you could just talk about the conditions out there and maybe a little bit about the delay and how you turned it into a good round. 
RACHEL TESKE:  Yeah.  Well, the course is, obviously, pretty wet and soft, the ball wasn't running anywhere, which, you know, sometimes it's tough because you are not hitting it as far as usual, but with the rough as thick as it is, it actually helps a little if you hit a little wide, you are not going to sit soft wherever it goes.  So, the course is pretty soft, but the greens were nice and soft and receptive so you could fly it at the pin. 
And I started off, hit the ball well on number 10 and walked away with a 3-putt bogey, but I felt like I have been hitting the ball good and putting good, especially the last couple weeks.  It's just been a matter of being patient and hitting the good shots and having the birdies roll around.

Q.  How did you feel with the three-birdie finish there?
RACHEL TESKE:  It was good.  When you are doing it, you don't actually realize it, that you are making three birdies in a row, and I just felt  -- I am trying to think what hole it was.  I made a bogey on number 3, and then I thought, let's make a few birdies coming in, there weren't any low scores and it was playing pretty tough, so just really focused on hitting the fairways and hitting good shots and hitting the greens and giving myself opportunities.

Q.  How hard was it to remain patient today on a day like this when the conditions are so tough?  Did you find it hard?
RACHEL TESKE: No, because I have been working on it for awhile.  And you know, patience is a big thing.  Courses are set up a lot tougher and the conditions obviously were tougher today, so I have been working on my patience a little bit over the last couple years and getting a little better at it.

Q.  How did you find the greens?  Did you find they were getting a little bumpier as the day wore on?
RACHEL TESKE:  Yeah, they were getting a little bumpier.  I guess most of my putts, I really didn't have too many spike marks or anything I had to worry about, they weren't too bumpy, but I noticed around the hole a lot it was pretty spiky and pretty bumpy.

Q.  There are only about ten people under par today.  Are you surprised by that, or is it really playing that tough?
RACHEL TESKE:  Yeah, it is playing pretty tough, because, you know, the fairways are soft so you are not hitting it as far, and then even on some of the fairways, you don't have -- you know, it's not wet but it's kind of muddy and so it's tough to get good contact on the ball and control your distance a little bit, and then if you just have one shot off the tee or into the green, you know, you are really penalized because the rough is pretty thick.

Q.  You didn't play lift, clean and place today, did you?
RACHEL TESKE:  Lift, clean and replace.

Q.  What's the difference?
RACHEL TESKE:  Lift, clean and replace, you actually have to replace the ball exactly where it was.

Q.  So you put a tee down?
RACHEL TESKE: Yeah, you put a tee down and replace it.  You can clean it and everything and just replace exactly where the ball was.  It's kind of silly, lift, clean and replace.  You might as well have a little bit of room, especially when it's wet, because you can get foot indentations, you know, on the fairways.  




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT