NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: METS v CARDINALS
October 15, 2000
Timo Perez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Can you talk about what it means to you to have an opportunity like this considering that eight months ago you weren't even with a Major League organization?

TIMO PEREZ: I feel great with the opportunity I've been given and I'm just trying to give it 100 percent every time I get on the field.  I just hope to continue to keep on doing this job for the New York Mets. 


Q.  Can you replay for us the play on Shawon Dunston and your whole thought process on it. 

TIMO PEREZ: When I saw him getting ready to tag up, I tried to deek him a little bit, give him the confidence to go.  I guess since I'm a rookie, maybe he doesn't know me yet and I just made the throw and it was there. 


Q.  What was the feeling in the dugout before batting in the bottom of the first, and what was it like at the end of the inning?

TIMO PEREZ: Well, we started off a little slow, being down 2-0 in the first inning.  But we had a chance to rally and I think we hit six straight doubles.  I want to thank God for giving us the opportunity to be in that position and hopefully we can come out tomorrow and play the same type of baseball. 


Q.  All your teammates talk about how much fun you have out there.  Do you feel any pressure at all?

TIMO PEREZ: I don't feel any pressure because I'm playing with a great teammate, Edgardo Alfonzo, who's always giving me advice and helping me out.  I feel I'm able to relax and calm down and I'm just having a great time out there. 


Q.  If and when you continue to play like this, are you at all prepared for the fame and celebrity status that you're going to receive?

TIMO PEREZ: Only time will tell, because I'm still very new at this and I don't know everything that entails in fame.  So just time will tell. 


Q.  What made you throw the ball into the stands at the end of the game?

TIMO PEREZ: Well, I love the fans and all game long they're yelling at me and having fun with me.  They help us, they help motivate us and get us going when we need it.  So I just felt that they were asking for the ball, so I threw it out there so they could have some fun, too. 


Q.  You seem to be playing like you're trying to make up for lost time.  Is that an accurate assessment? And, also, how does it feel to be, after all you've been through, maybe one game away from the World Series?

TIMO PEREZ: It's always been a big dream of everybody's to reach the World Series, and I'm here in my first year, a game away from being able to reach my dream.  I just feel very happy and joyous to be able to be in this position right now. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT