NL DIVISION SERIES: METS v GIANTS
October 6, 2000
Timo Perez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  With limited experience, even though he's played in Japan, are you nervous at all in this post-season? 
 
TIMO PEREZ:   Well, I don't feel too nervous because I'm playing with Edgardo Alfonzo.  I see that he's so calm and relaxed and I kind of feed off his posture.  He gives me advice before the game and he's helped me out a lot.  
 

Q.  You've been called this year's Melvin Mora.  Do you agree with that comparison and are you familiar with what Melvin did in the playoffs last year? 
 
TIMO PEREZ:   Well, I think it is a great honor to be compared to Melvin Mora.  I know the job he did last year and being compared with him says they are happy with the job I'm doing and I know with more time, I can do just as good as he did in the playoffs. 
 

Q.  You are a big Barry Bonds fan.  Did you get to talk to him and what did you say? 
 
TIMO PEREZ:   No.  I didn't get a chance to talk to my hero, but he is a great player, and I hope that maybe tomorrow I'll get a chance to talk to him.  But I didn't get a chance to talk to him yet.  
 

Q.  Why is Barry Bonds your hero?
 
TIMO PEREZ:   Well, I've been watching Barry play since I was a young kid and for some reason, his style and the way he conducts himself has always attracted me to his style of play.  To this day, he has been my favorite player and he'll probably be my favorite player as long as I'm alive.  
 

Q.  Anything you experienced in Japan that compared with Game 2 yesterday, and what was it? 
 
TIMO PEREZ:   I have never had an experience like yesterday, but in Japan the fans are real loud and they are good fans.  So I'm used to the heckling and stuff and I try to block that out and focus on my job and that's what I did yesterday.  
 

Q.  Was it your own idea to bunt with two strikes, and if so is that something that you do frequently? 
 
TIMO PEREZ:   Well, you know, that's something that you have to have self-confidence.  I have self-confidence in myself to do that, to bunt the ball and not worry about it going foul.  I do that every once in a while to prepare myself to make sure that it goes fair. 
 

Q.  So it was your idea? 
 
TIMO PEREZ:   Yes, it was my idea.  
 

Q.  Are you comfortable now that the pronunciation of your name is now settled and you are Timo?  
 
TIMO PEREZ:   Yeah, I have the chance of making the decision to have my name shorter just makes it easier for everybody and I'm glad that everybody is calling me Timo and I'd like everybody to keep calling me Timo.  
 

Q.  After the up-and-downs in Japan and finally getting your release, what realistically were your expectations coming back to pro ball in the States?  
 
TIMO PEREZ:   I've always had faith in myself and I just wanted an opportunity to come play here in the States where this is the best baseball in the world and get the opportunity to make it work.  I just believed in myself and had faith in myself and glad that I'm here today.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT