NHL ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 5, 2000
Frank Mahovlich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. How did it feel?
 
 FRANK MAHOVLICH: It felt great. I have been playing a bit of old-time hockey. We were
in Russia about a month ago and I got some skating in, so I felt pretty good. 
 
Q. Can you tell the difference between guys your age and guys that are younger?
 
 FRANK MAHOVLICH: I think you can. It is the same as when you are 30 and a young rookie
comes up and he is 20, and then you are 40 and somebody comes up that is 30. You notice
it. There is a difference. 
 
Q. Which other guys out there would you almost think almost can still play?
 
 FRANK MAHOVLICH: I don't know. I think once they quit, they can't play anymore: They
look like they can, but over 90-game, 85-game schedule, it is difficult. 
 
Q. What was the biggest difference that you noticed this time when you went to Moscow
as opposed to when you were there so many years ago?
 
 FRANK MAHOVLICH: I think the appearance in Moscow. I found that there were more gas
stations there and was more advertising. There were more billboards. Elections. They had
billboards for people that were running for elections which they never had before. Big
Macs, MacDonalds all over the place, and more shopping. The people don't have the money
yet, but they still have the shops there. That is what I found the difference. There were
more cars, more cars on the road than there ever were. 
 
Q. What do you think of the Leafs' chances of winning the Stanley did you?
 
 FRANK MAHOVLICH: I think they got as good a chance as anybody. I think their team is
quite good from what I have seen. I haven't seen too many games. I don't know their real
weaknesses. But from what I can see, the games that I have been to, they play against
everybody fairly well and they hold their own. They could win any game from what I can
see. 
 
Q. What is your opinion of all this government business about helping the Canadian
teams?
 
 FRANK MAHOVLICH: Well, I think it was about a year ago or something I was interviewed
and I didn't think it was a good idea because of the way it would end up. It is very
difficult with so many teams in the United States. I think our teams have a problem
because the way the dollar is and then I hear last week, I think I read somewhere where
they are taxing the players that aren't Americans to pay for their rinks. Well, I think we
have to do something, you know, I am not quite sure what it is. But we are going to have
to look at it. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT