NBA DRAFT
June 27, 2013
Ricky Ledo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







RICKY LEDO
  Milwaukee, No. 43

THE MODERATOR:   Opening statement about your feelings about the process so far and we'll open up to any questions afterwards. 
RICKY LEDO:   I think the process went well.   I'm just blessed to be in this position to be able to play in the NBA.   It's a dream come true.   I'm just happy to be a part of this organization. 

Q.   Ricky, how difficult was it to sit there?   A long wait. 
RICKY LEDO:   It was difficult.   Me and my agent were talking a lot [] dining.   I knew I was going to get picked.   I didn't know where.   I'm glad the team picked me.   They're happy with their pick.   Had the rights to pick me.   It felt good enough about my game to pick me. 

Q.   How disappointed are you not to go in the first? 
RICKY LEDO:   I wouldn't say it's really a disappointment.   My whole goal is just to get to the NBA, and to show that I belong.   They gave me that chance, and that's what I'm here for. 

Q.   Talk about your opportunity with Milwaukee and looking to get minutes.   What areas in your game is going to help you get those minutes?   And also it's kind of a rebuilding team, too.   Looks like Monta Ellis isn't coming back.   So how can you fit in? 
RICKY LEDO:   I'm just looking to come in and be able to show that I can score and just fill a role whatever they need and just play and be that person they need to be in every situation. 

Q.   Probably have to show that you can make the team now, because it's not first round.   So it's summer league and training camp.   Is it just the challenge to do that? 
RICKY LEDO:   It's going to be a challenge, but I feel like my game is going to do the talking.   I feel pretty confident about making the team. 

Q.   Ricky, this has happened to a lot of people that have come into the room tonight:   You come in wearing one hat and somebody tells you there's talks you've been traded to Dallas.   Have you heard anything? 
RICKY LEDO:   Yeah.   I kind of heard that in the beginning.   I'm blessed that Dallas took the shot on me. 

Q.   And also, how do you see yourself fitting into a system like that?   They're a team that they have a lot of money in the off‑season, and they look to make a splash with some free agency.   You obviously have to make the team out of summer league now.   How do you see yourself fitting in? 
RICKY LEDO:   I see myself fitting in well.   At the two guard position.   They don't really have two guards right now.   So I feel like just me stepping in that position and showing that I can score and be a great player and great teammate in summer league and eventually making the team. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT