TMS MONTE CARLO
April 21, 2000
Cedric Pioline
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Did you know you were able to play in such a consistent manner during a whole match?

CEDRIC PIOLINE: Yes, but it has been a long time I didn't do it. Today it was really
very good. Almost from the beginning to the end I did what I wanted to do. I was able to
react to any type of shot he had and I was able to accelerate when it was necessary. I am
really very pleased.

Q. Are you surprised because of the fact that you had a difficult match yesterday?

CEDRIC PIOLINE: Do you mean that I played like that?

Q. Yes, you were very present physically.

CEDRIC PIOLINE: Physically I am pleased. I had a long match yesterday and we never know
how we are going to react afterwards. Besides, I have experience. But yesterday I didn't
play like I wanted to and he played a good match on his side. I tried to use that lesson
to be more present; not to let my opponent get ahead today and to hold on to the match.
What I wanted to do before I was able to do it today. It is all the most pleasant.

Q. To prepare well you said you were going to have a plate of pasta and red wine. What
kind of pasta did you have and what kind of wine did you drink?

CEDRIC PIOLINE: I had pasta with artichokes and a glass of Chianti.

Q. Only one glass?

CEDRIC PIOLINE: Yes, you must be reasonable.

Q. After a match like today do you need a lot of health care physically, massages and
is your body tired?

CEDRIC PIOLINE: The match was not very long today. But on the other hand, it means many
efforts. So I will have a massage to recuperate but normally. I am -- of course I am less
tired than a match like -- than after a match like yesterday. In fact, it is a
head-to-head. The others are not there. You could say whatever you want.

Q. On a match like this one are you close to your best level on clay or are there still
some parts of your game you can improve on?

CEDRIC PIOLINE: For this particular match, apart from the breakpoint I didn't make in
the second set, I couldn't do much better. We always want to do better, but compared to
the opponent I had and the conditions that were very good, I did well. I don't see what I
could have done more today. I am pleased.

Q. This morning during practice did you feel that everything was all right? Did you
have good feelings?

CEDRIC PIOLINE: I felt a bit heavy, but my racket was -- my shots were there.

Q. Sometimes the shots there are and then --

CEDRIC PIOLINE: Of course, if you are not close enough to the ball it is not enough, I
agree, especially with a player like him.

Q. What did you think?

CEDRIC PIOLINE: I believe he played well, but I also believed I played better than him.
Therefore, it was difficult for him. Each time he had opportunities I was able to
counterattack. Each time he let go I was present.

Q. I saw Kucera earlier and twice he told me that he was very surprised to see the
level you maintained during the whole match without any let-downs?

CEDRIC PIOLINE: This is specifically what has to be mentioned. I was able to hold on
the match from the beginning to the end. I was fearing a little bit to play against him.
He is not easy to maneuver. I had practiced with him before the tournament and he really
gave me a good correction so I was a bit afraid.

Q. What about the two men on the court now?

CEDRIC PIOLINE: I don't know what is going to happen. The match is not predictable yet.
It might go into three sets.

Q. Do you have a preference?

CEDRIC PIOLINE: In their own style they are good, both of them. Costa is maybe a little
bit more solid but I don't know if he will win. The main thing for me is to remain
concentrated.

Q. With pasta and a glass of red wine?

CEDRIC PIOLINE: Yes, maybe.

Q. Compared to the level you had in the French Open last year do you have the feeling
you have reached the same level or are you doing new things? Did you develop your game?

CEDRIC PIOLINE: It is difficult to compare. But it is true that I am playing well. I
have a good level on clay. I have to continue in the same direction. I have to monitor my
program to make sure I recuperate after my efforts and to make sure I will be ready for
the French Open. It is a good thing to have good feelings from the start, but it is true I
have really a good level right now.

Q. We already have the impression that you improved a lot your footwork. Are you
working on this with Pierre Cherret? In this match you were going at such a speed?

CEDRIC PIOLINE: I tried to take care of the beginning of the match. It is true that we
are trying to improve different things and this is one thing among the others. Sometimes
it comes immediately. Sometimes not. I try also to watch what other players do, like
Kuerten, he is a good player on clay. He is very light. He is impressive.

Q. Do you feel lighter than you were compared to last year?

CEDRIC PIOLINE: Well said. Yes, yes, this is true.

Q. From when did you start working on these new paths with Pierre, first tournament
this year and boom?

CEDRIC PIOLINE: It is true that for the clay court season we believed we had to correct
a certain number of things. It is the basics of clay court. We play more shots so if you
are not able to move well, it becomes difficult. So this was the optic for this season
2000.

Q. When did it start, in Brazil?

CEDRIC PIOLINE: It didn't start in Brazil because it was a bit short. I started my
preparation two or three weeks ago.

Q. Did you see that Becker was present?

CEDRIC PIOLINE: I saw on TV that he was there in the restaurant.

Q. Did it remind you of bad memories?

CEDRIC PIOLINE: He is part of those people who make noise while they are eating,
hitting with their forks and knives and things.

Q. He was across the net facing you on the court last time.

CEDRIC PIOLINE: Yes, everything happens.

Q. Did you see him before the match?

CEDRIC PIOLINE: No, I didn't see him.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT