TMS MONTE CARLO
April 20, 2000
Cedric Pioline
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Yesterday you wanted to us make you 10 years younger when we were talking about
confidence. Now do you want us to make you two years younger comparing this match with
what happened with Berasategui two years ago?

CEDRIC PIOLINE: Yes, it is true, it was in the third set with Berasategui, 5-1 and two
breaks also?

Q. Yes.

CEDRIC PIOLINE: It is true, but I believed he played well. Sometimes I was not being
fast enough to get organized. I believe he was playing well. He was taking many risks. He
took over the court, therefore, it was not easy.

Q. Compared to your former opponents he played a different tennis; he had a mixed game,
he went up to the net, you had problems reading his shots? 

CEDRIC PIOLINE: He plays very flat. It is not easy. When he does one shot after the
other we have the impression he is taking all the risks and it is always going into the
court. Therefore, it is not easy. He played a good match. Today I missed a little bit. I
didn't serve very well, but the important thing was the basic game. I tried to keep my
shots working.

Q. In the first set when you got broken what did you think?

CEDRIC PIOLINE: During that break he played well. He made good points. There is nothing
much to say. We can always say that we can do better, but he played well. After I indeed
thought I would be able to come back but each time I had opportunities I didn't push him
enough.

Q. Before he made the doublefault on the point of 5-1 did you believe you were going to
lose?

CEDRIC PIOLINE: I saw myself in a difficult position to be honest. He played well. Each
time he was playing good shots at me. I told myself if he continues like that the only
thing left to do will be to tell him he played well, or then maybe it will turn around and
it did turn around.

Q. When he won the two points for one set-all? 

CEDRIC PIOLINE: I was on a roll, so it wasn't dram dramatic. So it was not bad. I was
on a roll so it didn't really bother me. I was seeing that I was starting to be
dominating.

Q. In the third set it was strange, he won four games and after you won four games.

CEDRIC PIOLINE: With his game it is not easy. When I feel good, it is okay. But when I
let him do his thing, he takes many risks and it goes -- everything goes into the court.
It is a bit strange.

Q. Physically was it a difficult match, you had ups-and-downs, both of you. Why?

CEDRIC PIOLINE: Maybe there is a bits of let-down in the concentration and therefore we
make a few mistakes; we hit a bit less hard certain shots and this gives air to the other
one.

Q. Guy Forget is in Monaco. Did you schedule a meeting?

CEDRIC PIOLINE: Guy is here? I don't know, I didn't see him.

Q. Are you going to talk about France/Austria, about the choice of surface?

CEDRIC PIOLINE: Certainly we will discuss it. It is important to meet together and to
choose the best surface to welcome the Austrians. It is important that the captain and the
players discuss together.

Q. Do you have a preference as far as the surface is concerned?

CEDRIC PIOLINE: I believe a fast surface would be quite good.

Q. Apparently he is looking for an indoor stadium.

CEDRIC PIOLINE: I don't know, I talk to nobody except to you because I was already
asked that question, but I didn't speak with Guy.

Q. Talking about today's match again and comparing it again to the Berasategui match,
after that match in the Finals you were dead. There was not much left. Do you feel in a
better physical state today?

CEDRIC PIOLINE: Yes, apparently I am not too tired. Normally I am not exhausted. A good
plate of pasta, a glass of wine and it should be okay.

Q. Kucera has not a funny game?

CEDRIC PIOLINE: No, he plays well. Against Medvedev I thought he played very well. But
everybody plays well at this stage so you have to play well also.

Q. Do you have references against him on clay? 

CEDRIC PIOLINE: It must be a while we didn't play each other because if we played,
because I don't remember it.

Q. In Dusseldorf?

CEDRIC PIOLINE: I don't count the matches in Dusseldorf.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT