TMS MONTE CARLO
April 19, 2000
Cedric Pioline
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Cedric, it was like a boxing match from the baseline. Did you like it?

CEDRIC PIOLINE: When you win, yes. Indeed, it was very good. It was a bit like I
expected. He always played the same way. If you are able to contain him, he makes
mistakes.

Q. You seemed particularly fit, well placed on the court and you were hitting at least
as strong as he did?

CEDRIC PIOLINE: I have a better security margin. He always tries to make you knock out,
but on clay it is more difficult. If he was able to do it all the time, we would know
about it. I believe I tried to be patient, not to be put down, but not rushing myself
either.

Q. He started strong?

CEDRIC PIOLINE: He started immediately. He tried to asphyxiate me and I knew he would
do that, so I wasn't worried even if I was a breakdown.

Q. When we see you hitting, moving, we have the impression that you are fully
confident.

CEDRIC PIOLINE: I thought you were going to say that we had the impression I was ten
years younger.

Q. Yes, also.

CEDRIC PIOLINE: It was very pleasant.

Q. It is a good start for the season?

CEDRIC PIOLINE: I am happy to be in the third round, to have been able to win two
matches in two straight sets. I am satisfied. It is pleasant to know immediately that you
are playing well and that you are enjoying it. For those two matches I think I didn't
spend more time than I had to on the court.

Q. Would you like to play otherwise if you could? Are you forced to play that way
because of your opponent or would you like to play a more mixed game?

CEDRIC PIOLINE: On clay you have to be able to play that way. The opponents have the
possibility of sending back more shots, so you must be able to make it. When this will be
settled down maybe new things will come up.

Q. Against Dosedel it is going to be the same thing, I imagine.

CEDRIC PIOLINE: Yes, he has the same type of game. I know him. It might be the same
style. I have to be patient, but I have not to let myself be overcome either.

Q. Is it all the mental work you made with your preparation since December which is
starting to pay-off, like yesterday's match, the day before, and today?

CEDRIC PIOLINE: Well, this mental preparation is mainly to improve my contact with my
coach. It is not only aimed at to play on court. Of course, some little tricks are coming
out, but I didn't do anything really different today that I could do in the past.

Q. We saw that you were winning all your breakpoints and he only had one out of eight
or nine?

CEDRIC PIOLINE: I didn't make them all. I was up 40-Love at 5-2 and these are three
balls -- points I missed, excuse me.

Q. But just before that game you were winning three points, breakpoints out of three.
Therefore 3 out of 4?

CEDRIC PIOLINE: 3 out of 6, yes mathetmatics are an exact science. 

Q. Do you intend to enjoy yourself playing doubles?

CEDRIC PIOLINE: Yes, I will try. It is going to be funny - the two giants against the
two small ones. It is going to be funny.

Q. The draw is open with the other players who lost?

CEDRIC PIOLINE: Open, yes and no. Some players are less ranked, but if the good players
lost it is because they had across the net someone very strong. So the important thing is
to play well and to win your matches.

Q. We can say what we want, excuse me, but with your experience, do you feel you can
win this tournament?

CEDRIC PIOLINE: I will win on Sunday! No, we will see. You should not make prognoses. I
know that you like to do that. But my thing is to play, to be on the court, to play
Dosedel tomorrow and I will see if I will have the opportunity of having another round
after that match.

Q. But your feelings, your sensations are not bad; the level of game is present.

CEDRIC PIOLINE: Yes, but everything comes down to what happens on the court. The
sensations are good, but you have to exploit them on the court and play good matches. That
is it.

Q. A last question about doubles. You are playing with Rosset and Escude is playing
with Federer. Is it coincidence, a double Franco-Swiss situation?

CEDRIC PIOLINE: It is a coincidence. He was looking for a partner to play regularly
during the whole season after -- according to what I understood. So they are going to be
associated, both of them. I tried to find someone else, and by coincidence it was Rosset.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT