DAVIS CUP - AUSTRALIA vs FRANCE
December 5, 1999
Cedric Pioline
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
ITF:  Questions, please. 
 

Q. From the stands, we felt the guy across the net was on a cloud.  Was it your feeling also? 
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  Yes.  I believe he played incredibly well.  He tried for difficult shots on the lines, and he succeeded.  He was a bit lucky also.  But this is the game.  He was very lucky.  
 

Q. Paradoxically we share victory in Davis Cup, but on the other hand a loss is something you live by yourself individually. 
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  I think they supported me quite well after it was over.  Of course, there's a personal satisfaction when you win.  There's a lot of disappointment when you lose.  But it's true what you say.  
 

Q. When you have a victory, there's a generosity, you give it to others around you.  We felt that this loss you had to stand alone, more than a victory. 
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  It's half true because when we see how the crowd reacted, they were very demonstrative, expressive.  The fact that I was playing and I lost, it was Pioline on the court; it was personal.  Certain losses hurt a bit more than others. 
 

Q. Compared with the former matches against him, what surprised you in his game? 
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  I believe he's been very solid from the beginning to the end.  He attempted and took many risks.  He tried difficult shots, and was lucky, especially in important moments.  He tried, and he was successful.  It would have been necessary for me to go even further, to push him to make a mistake.  Apparently, I was not able to do that today.  
 

Q. Did you have enough energy during the whole match or did you have some moments where you had lapses of energy? 
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  No, I don't think so.  Especially in the last two sets, I think the score does not really show how close it was.  I was down 5-All, and I had the opportunity to break him. 
 

Q. How did you feel Mark played today, where and how he won it, how the Australians have played overall? 
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  I think Mark played a very good match today.  He was very good everywhere.  He was serving good, he was very consistent from the baseline.  Maybe sometimes he was lucky with the net or with the lines.  But I think he deserved the win today because he played a little bit better than me.  I think he played a big, big match today. 
 

Q. Was it easy to listen to Guy in the match?  Do you listen to what the captain says in that circumstance or do you stay within yourself? 
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  Yes, of course I listen to him.  It was a difficult match.  Guy was present all during the match.  We realized that Philippoussis played well.  He kept encouraging me and pushed me to play my best tennis.  I had no problems with that.  Very often I was down in the match and I was able to reverse the situation, so the important thing is to not believe that he plays too good for me.  You have to fight till the end, and that's what I tried to do.  
 

Q. Tactically, you made him move; you tried to serve-and-volley. 
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  Yes.  I tried to prevent him from being comfortable with his own game, controlling the rallies with his big forehand.  I made him run.  I'm quite aggressive myself.  I tried to answer by attacks to his shots.  
 

Q. What did you lack today globally?  The first serve was difficult.  If we analyze it set by set, not set by set, by globally, the whole match? 
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  Globally, when I had the opportunities, I should have done a bit more.  Some games I would have been able to be ahead in the score.  I would have made him doubt.  I would have pressured him more.  I don't know if I would have been able to win, but I would have had a better result.  
 

Q. Do you feel you had no power or else shall we believe that Philippoussis was very strong this weekend? 
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  There's no doubt he played extremely well this weekend.  It's not because you have an excellent player across the next that you have to feel you are losing. You have to continue to play your game, believe in victory, to try to reverse the situation, turn it around like the Australians did yesterday in the doubles.  You have to keep on believing.  Sometimes it works.  This is the basis of tennis.  
 

Q. Are you aware it was thanks to you that the French team was in the finals, or does the fact that you lost make you forget that? 
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  It's true that I gave many decisive points to the French team.  Finally I lose the decisive point in this final.  When you look back, when you step back, you will have to think about all that, and you'll have to digest this weekend, and keep on going.  
 

Q. Do you believe the match today really was decisive at the beginning of the third set? 
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  Yes.  It was an important moment.  If I had been able to do a bit more at that moment, a few better shots, or give away less points   - I don't remember what I did at that time   - maybe it could have turned around the situation.  Now, the beginning of the fourth set was the same story.  Every time he played well.  
 

Q. Tactically, we chose clay to give the Australians problems.  You had to play serve-and-volley to dominate him; isn't that strange? 
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  Well, clay indoors is always faster than normal clay.  It's part of my game to play serve-and-volley, to be aggressive.  I continue doing that.  Given the way he was playing today, I think it would have been difficult to have him down by staying on the baseline.  He was playing in the middle of the court.  I couldn't let him win his serves easily and rally a long time to win my own serves.  It wasn't possible.  
 

Q. Wasn't it too difficult to come on the court where France is down?  We always count on you to make up for the score.  It's certainly difficult to manage that kind of pressure.  Don't you believe people think you are only able to equalize the score and not more? 
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  Of course, there are many situations which I'm more comfortable in than that one.  But that's the principle of a team.  One of my friends lost one point, and this doesn't mean I have to give up.  I try to come back to an equal score and to give an extra chance to my team.  Coming into the court, saying, "We need this extra point," is not very pleasant, of course.  
 

Q. This tie, the key point was the doubles that was lost. 
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  Well, if you refer to the statistics, I don't know.  Certainly it's true that doubles play an important role in Davis Cup.  Even without statistics, we know it.  We saw it several times.  Certainly it might be the case.  
 

Q. There's nothing to say about the choice of the surface? 
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  No, there's no regrets about that.  
 

Q. With this year in Davis Cup, don't you feel your personality has a new impact on the public?  You showed your emotions, which you don't do, or didn't do before.  Do you believe the fact that people were supporting you is better for you?  Do you believe things have changed for you? 
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  The change is forever; things always change.  I said it already and I'm saying it again:   It's more pleasant for me to be appreciated.  I'm trying to continue with that thought.  I think people appreciate my game and what I do on the court.  I try to give it back to them by making them feel emotions, so they can be happy also.  
 

Q. And tears sometimes? 
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  Yes, sometimes tears.  
 

Q. What future do you give to the French team who went to the finals this year?  It was a small team in the beginning, and there were more players in the end.  Do you think it's going to attract younger players? 
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  Yes, I hope so.  What would be nice would be to have one, two or more players who improve a lot, who will be consistent during the whole year.  I would need someone next to me so I can use his shoulder.  I think among the new players, like Sebastien, Arnaud Di Pasquale, or others, Nicolas Escude, have a good future in Davis Cup.  Maybe this year they were still a bit young, but I believe they are going to be very great Davis Cup players.  
 

Q. The fact that you are the boss in this Davis Cup, does it give you the desire to continue next year and maybe become a captain one day? 
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  For next year I don't know.  As long as I have fun, as I please myself on the court, like it happened all year, and this weekend also, I will continue to play and I'll be competitive at a high level.  Then if one day the players call me and believe that I am someone who can bring something to them as a captain, why not?  But I think Guy did a wonderful job.  He's an excellent captain.  We have many other things to share with him as a captain and me as a player.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT