US OPEN
September 11, 1999
Cedric Pioline
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
USTA:  Questions for Cedric.  
 
 
Q.  What happened today?  You've been playing so beautifully up until today.  What happened?
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  I think he played too good.  He was reading very well the ball today, catching everything, very few unforced errors, serving big.  I mean, he was playing much better than me today. 
 
Q.  Is Martin's game good enough right now to beat Agassi or Kafelnikov?
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  I played a couple times against Todd.  I think it's the first time he's playing that way.  I never seen him playing like this.  If he's able to play that way tomorrow, yeah, I think he have a good chance.  
 
Q.  Did you have a specific plan going in, or strategy?
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  Not really.  I mean, he's good player.  He knows how to return, serve, play from the baseline.  I prefer to play my game and try to play like I played the other matches.  But didn't work.  
 
Q.  Now that this Open is over for you, can you look ahead to two weeks from now at the Davis Cup?
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  Yeah, it's the next big stop.  I mean, it's going to be interesting to play Belgium in France because we have to be very careful because we are supposed to win, you know.  It's always dangerous to be in that position.  But I'm sure the team will be very concerned about the match.  
 
Q.  Do you come out of this tournament feeling very good about what you accomplished here?
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  Yeah.  I have a good feeling.  I mean, I'm disappointed that I lost, which is normal.  But I have a good feeling about this year US Open.  I played a good tennis.  I beat a couple of top players.  I mean, it's very positive, you know.  
 
Q.  Did that first game have any impact on the rest?  It was so early, but you had so many breakpoints in the first game of the whole match. 
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  Yeah, I tried to make a good start.  I had a couple of breakpoint.  He made a big first serve every time.  I mean, I think he played good.  You can always say, "I have to do this, I have to do that."  But I think he played a very good match. 
 
Q.  How tired are you from these two weeks?  You seemed a little tired out there. 
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  Right now it's okay.  Maybe tomorrow and two days from now, it's going to be different because when you still in, you don't think about, you just play, try to keep your concentration for the next match.  You don't feel it.  But once it's finished, it's different.  I think I need a couple of days to be fine. 
 
Q.  When will you go to Po?  How much in advance?
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  Next weekend, I think.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT