TMS MONTE CARLO
April 15, 2002
Cedric Pioline
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  First question, please. 


Q.  How do you feel about your game now? 

CEDRIC PIOLINE:  Well, my game is there now, and it's good to put it all together point after point according to the score and according to the way things are going.  Otherwise, generally speaking, it's good. 

Q.  At 3-love in the third did you start to hesitate, or did he come back? 

CEDRIC PIOLINE:  I believe I played well.  He wasted a few shots, and I pushed him to make mistakes.  After that, he was able to come back in to the match well.  I believe he played well to come back game after game.  In fact, it was a matter of not much. 

Q.  You had two points?

CEDRIC PIOLINE:  Yes.  As I said, there was not much difference between us.  Once again, I experimented with the fact that the line is very thin between a positive and a negative result. 

Q.  In the end, maybe confidence made the difference?  Are you less confident these days?  Can it play a role? 

CEDRIC PIOLINE:  It's possible.  He was playing very well.  He's one of the best players since the beginning of the year.  Therefore, he has more automatic shots than I have.  This can play a role at a stage or at another stage in the match. 

Q.  But still you considered this match encouraging given what is happening? 

CEDRIC PIOLINE:  Yes, for sure. It's better than losing 1-1.  Now I would like to have opportunities to play more matches.  Last week I played Ferrero.  This time it's Novak.  Maybe with one match or two under my belt, I can start to win that kind of match - maybe. 

Q.  Wouldn't it be interesting for you finally to accept the wildcards? 

CEDRIC PIOLINE:  That's a bad idea (laughing).  I don't believe so, no.  It happened that I wasn't very lucky in the draw.  There are many other players in the draw who don't play as well as Novak, and I believe that the way I play, I can beat those players.  Winning a match, two matches, is good because after everything is underway.  Things are different.  But this is not a reason why I will have to refuse. 

Q.  Why do you play doubles with Mickael? 

CEDRIC PIOLINE:  Because I'm trying to play doubles more often, and the best thing to do is to play with French players.  Fabrice is playing with Henman.  And Mickael had nobody, so we decided to play together. 

Q.  Which tournaments are you going to play afterwards?  Are you going to ask for wildcards, or are you going to play less important tournaments? 

CEDRIC PIOLINE:  No, I'm going to continue with what I started and ask for wildcards and see if they want to give me one or not.  Maybe I will play some qualifications.  But playing lesser tournaments is not in my way of seeing things.  If I had been younger, I would have done it maybe.  But today it's not interesting. 

Q.  Today, where are you going to play for sure? 

CEDRIC PIOLINE:  Nowhere. 

Q.  You still made requests? 

CEDRIC PIOLINE:  Yes, but I have no answer yet.  For the wildcards, I'll wait to see what happens.  For the time being I have no answer.

Q.  Did you see Gasquet play? 

CEDRIC PIOLINE:  I watched one game when I was waiting before coming up here. 

Q.  What do you think about him?  He's a phenomenon.

CEDRIC PIOLINE:  In one game it's difficult to make yourself an idea.  But being able to qualify at his age in this kind of tournament, beating two good players! And he seems calm.  We have the impression he has many years of experience.  And the way he hits the ball, no doubt he has good potential.  You don't need to ask me to see it. 

Q.  Are you surprised he's so mature so young? 

CEDRIC PIOLINE:  Yes, it's very rare.  If he keeps that maturity and develops it, he has great potential and he can go very far.  Playing that way at 15 or 16 years old is a good sign for the future. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT