US OPEN
August 31, 1999
Cedric Pioline
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







USTA: Questions for Cedric.

Q. What did he say to you at the net at the end?

CEDRIC PIOLINE: Just ask him what was the problem because he seems like he wanted to
stop. He told me his shoulder was very sore, so he decide to stop. 

Q. Did he mention if he injured his shoulder when he fell in the second set, or did he
not mention anything at all? Just soreness in his shoulder?

CEDRIC PIOLINE: I knew since Indianapolis he had a problem with his shoulder, but I
think he played a long time during this match with a problem because he was not serving a
hundred percent. I think for two sets he had a problem, so you never know what's going on
in the brain.

Q. Did you get any idea at all that he was in that bad of shape? He was two points from
breaking you, serving for the match, very close. 

CEDRIC PIOLINE: Yeah, but the whole match was close, all four sets. I just try to keep
going, play good tennis, and just concentrate onto my game. 

Q. Were you disappointed in the way that it ended, because you seemed to sort of throw
your racquet down?

CEDRIC PIOLINE: Me? 

Q. Yes. 

CEDRIC PIOLINE: I mean, if I was sure to win, I prefer to play five sets, but you never
know. I mean, he's a very good fighter. He's a great player. It was very close. I mean, I
could play some bad shots and be break down. A win is a win. 

Q. Were you surprised that he was booed off the court? 

CEDRIC PIOLINE: Yeah. I think it's not fair because I think if he gave up it's because
he had a serious problem. I mean, he's defending champion here. He won the last two years.
He love the tournament. I think it's not fair from the crowd. 

Q. Your next opponent is Lars Burgsmuller. Have you ever played him before?

CEDRIC PIOLINE: No.

Q. Know anything about him?

CEDRIC PIOLINE: No, I have no idea. 

Q. The end of a long day: Sampras gone, Henman gone, Rafter gone. Does this open it for
someone like yourself to go a long way?

CEDRIC PIOLINE: Pioline is still here. It's good. 

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT