REPUBLIC NATIONAL MONTE CARLO OPEN
April 21, 1998
Cedric Pioline
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  What do you think of this match?  You started off well? 
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  It was a typical first match on clay.  I started off well, then I made some mistakes which allowed him to get back into the match.  After, in the third, it was a bit tighter.  He seemed to be quite tired in the end.  I could have lost, but I was confident because I was feeling well in what I was doing. 
 

Q.  You started floating a little bit.  There was an overhead where you were not on.  Does that kind of mistake take away your conversation?  Because after you had two, three mistakes in a row?
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  I missed two or three things, that's true.  He made a lob on the line.  He made two or three good returns under the tape of the net.  I missed the volleys.  This put him back into the match.  Instead of being up 4-2, it was 3-All.  This changes everything.  Of course, you think about it a little bit,  especially on this surface where you have more time.  It's slower.  You have more time to recuperate. 
 

Q.  You knew he was a good opponent at the end of the match?
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  I knew it was going to be a difficult match because he plays well on clay.  He's a solid clay courter.  He played well last week.  It's never simple against him. 
 

Q.  What did you do those past two or three weeks?  Did you have a break?
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  I had a little break and I also trained for this tournament. 
 

Q.  You were in Normandy?
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  No, I was in Paris. 
 

Q.  Why should you start competing again on clay in an important tournament like this one where there is more pressure than in Barcelona or Estoril?
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  I could have started next week, too.  Why not? 
 

Q.  Doesn't it bother you to start with an important tournament?
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  I did that before already. Sometimes it was a success; sometimes not so much.  Many players start on clay here.  There is a moment where you have to have a break.  In the beginning of the year, there  was the Davis Cup.  If I had gone all through it, I wouldn't have had time at all and I would have had only one week before Barcelona, which is not so good. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT