US OPEN
August 28, 2001
Cedric Pioline
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Questions for Cedric.


Q.  How did you play today?  I know the score, but how did you play?

CEDRIC PIOLINE:  I don't even know.  I mean, I cannot say I play good, of course, but I cannot say I played very bad.  I don't even know.  I mean, it's very strange.  I think Gambill played a good match, very consistent and solid match.  He's a good player.  But I'm playing too much up and down to have a chance to push him, you know. 
 

Q.  Is this your form in the summer?

CEDRIC PIOLINE:  Yeah, is my form since a long time I've been in this form.  I hope it will stop because it's one year I'm playing very bad.  I don't enjoy to play like this, even if I enjoy to play tennis and I love this sport.  This is very difficult for me to play like this.  To play this way, I mean, I have more ambition than this.
 

Q.  Are you considering your career now?  Are you considering the length of your career at the moment?

CEDRIC PIOLINE:  No, I don't know yet.  I mean, I don't play good, of course.  I believe I still can play very good.  I don't have thinking about stopping or whatever.  I think I can play good again, so I'm trying to stay there with the guys.  I hope is going to come back soon. 
 

Q.  You don't play doubles in this tournament. 

CEDRIC PIOLINE:  No.
 

Q.  Isn't that surprising, looking forward to the Davis Cup semifinals?

CEDRIC PIOLINE:  I don't have a ranking in doubles, so I cannot get in.  I mean, I never played double here.
 

Q.  There was no possibility of a wildcard? 

CEDRIC PIOLINE:  I don't know. 
 

Q.  Do you think you will play doubles in the Davis Cup?

CEDRIC PIOLINE:  You have to call Mr.  Forget to ask him.  I'm not able to say I will play or not.  I mean, is not my decision, you know.  If he calls me, of course I will be there and I will enjoy and try to do my best.  But this is not my decision.
 

Q.  Do you feel you can be as successful as you were in the past?

CEDRIC PIOLINE:  Yeah, of course.  Of course, even if I don't have so many years to play, I think I can play very good again, do some good results, enjoy to fight on the court, you know.
 

Q.  Have you lost anything physically through the years?

CEDRIC PIOLINE:  I don't think so.  I mean, one year ago I was playing very good.  I was already 31.  I was moving very well.  I don't think it's a physical problem, you know.  It's just to get all together again, just to get my game and my rhythm together, you know. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT