US OPEN
September 2, 1997
Cedric Pioline
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. What turned this match around? 
 
 CEDRIC PIOLINE: I think just the fourth set when I was leading and he tried to make me
run more and make me play more shots and I was tired and he played well. We had a couple
of games where we -- it was deuce and he won that game. After I was too tired. 
 
Q. How great is Chang's conditioning? It is obviously not a secret that everybody
didn't know before, but in a match like this you really learn about it.
 
 CEDRIC PIOLINE: Looks like he is better than me, so, I don't know; you have to ask him.
But he looks -- he is very -- I mean, everybody knows he is a very tough player to beat
because he is very consistent and he gets the right physics, so he show us today. 
 
Q. But you could have won it after leading 5-2 in the fourth and nobody would say that
he was better than you. So was it also a bit of getting nervous a little bit?
 
 CEDRIC PIOLINE: Whatever you want. I mean, I was tired and he played well and it was
very close; it was a very close game and he made that game. So, maybe that is why he is
No. 2 in the world and I am not No. 2 in the world. 
 
Q. Even though he is No. 2, the fact that Sampras is out of this tournament, do you
think the players think they have more of a chance, all the players left, think they have
more of a chance to win this with Sampras gone?
 
 CEDRIC PIOLINE: I mean, I am not in the race anymore, so I don't care. 
 
Q. Before you stepped on the court, did it encourage you to get into the quarters a bit
more knowing that Sampras was out yesterday?
 
 CEDRIC PIOLINE: Did you watch the draw? Because Sampras was at the top and Chang was
down. So, I mean, it is not because I am playing Chang and Sampras is out and I can win
the tournament. You have to be ready. I have to play one match. And, if I beat Chang, I
have to beat one more Top 10 player and it is very difficult. And I don't think about
being next Sunday without Sampras. I mean, you are really focused on Sampras, guys. 
 
Q. Is he, Chang, very difficult to play because he hits so many balls back?
 
 CEDRIC PIOLINE: Yeah. It is difficult, because today he show us again he can reach some
balls - I mean, than the other players doesn't reach - so it is very difficult, because
you never know if you have a point or not. I mean, it is more effort, you know; it is
different. 
 
Q. Is he perhaps the best conditioned player on the men's Tour?
 
 CEDRIC PIOLINE: I think he is one of the best, yeah. He is very consistent and you have
to -- I think you have to play better tennis than him and be strong as he is if you want
to beat him, like Sampras can do. But, it is only one Sampras. 
 
Q. Would you expect Chang to be now the favorite to win this tournament? Obviously, he
is ranked No. 2 and Sampras is out, but the other players who have come in here have all
mentioned other people besides Chang.
 
 CEDRIC PIOLINE: I don't know. You have to ask him. I am not Chang. Maybe he thinks he
has a good chance now, but he is playing Rios who is a good player, Top 10 player. I mean,
two more matches before final and one more step if he wants to win. So, of course he has a
big chance, yeah. 
 
Q. Can you describe how much fatigue there is playing the last set of that match?
 
 CEDRIC PIOLINE: I was starting cramping so, I mean, I don't know if you have cramped,
then you have an idea. I started cramping. I think he saw I was tired and he tried to make
me run, so.... And even with this, I mean, I had some two, three breakpoints, I mean, I
was playing the best I could do. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT