US OPEN
August 31, 1997
Cedric Pioline
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. The last two sets, what sort of turned it in your favor, Cedric?

CEDRIC PIOLINE: Sorry?

Q. The last two sets, what turned it -- how did you turn the match around in your
favor?

CEDRIC PIOLINE: I think, you know, for the third set, he won like 6-1. I let it go a
little bit, to be ready for the fourth set. I was dealing with my serve, so was no break,
but he was running after me. So I did just one break. It was 40-15 on his serve. I won his
serve, I break him. After, maybe he was a little tired at the beginning of the fifth. It
was good for me. I could break him two times. So, I mean, I was almost safe.

Q. Almost?

CEDRIC PIOLINE: Almost. Because he was fighting until the last point.

Q. Did you think the match would end in the fifth set the way he kept fending off match
point? 

CEDRIC PIOLINE: Yeah. He could come back, sure. Could come back. You never know. A guy
like this, you know, he looks like he's playing his life out there. He's diving like
crazy. I mean, why not? Why not? He can dive on my serve and make a winner return.
Everything can happen against him.

Q. Cedric, the Americans seem to like the new stadium. Can you tell me about the
European side, how you like it?

CEDRIC PIOLINE: The new stadium? I didn't see it. I didn't have the great honor to play
on the new stadium. Maybe I come back for next match.

Q. Does that bother you, even today they kind of stuck you out on court 11, like the
Juniors?

CEDRIC PIOLINE: It's not me who --

Q. Does it bother you?

CEDRIC PIOLINE: No problem. I'm ready for everything. I know it's tough tournament. I'm
ready.

Q. Do you think you deserve more respect, though, having been a finalist once?

CEDRIC PIOLINE: I tell you, I'm ready for everything.

Q. Doesn't matter?

CEDRIC PIOLINE: Don't make me say what I'm not saying, okay? 

Q. How is your game right now? Are you comfortable with the way you're playing?

CEDRIC PIOLINE: Yeah, yeah, yeah. I play good tennis. Today was a very close match. Not
so much rallies because he's playing a lot of serve and volley. But at one moment you have
to win the key point, you know, during the match. Doesn't matter if you play good or not.
I think I did it today, and that's very important for me.

Q. Going back to this respect thing that you don't want to talk about, is it almost
better for you to be forgotten? Maybe you're sneaking up on some people around here?

CEDRIC PIOLINE: Doesn't matter for me. I mean, I play outside court. I'm going to play
maybe central court if Chang wins, center or stadium one, two, they say stadium two. It's
good. It's good. I'm fourth round now. I'm looking forward.

Q. Did you anticipate such a tough match?

CEDRIC PIOLINE: Yeah. I knew it's going to be a difficult match against him because he
is like very pump. So it's always difficult to play against him because is going to the
net like crazy, is jumping, is like doing everything. I mean, I saw, I think it was last
year against Agassi, he played unbelievable for one set, almost two sets. I know a lot of
player can play very well for one match or one set or two sets, so just have to be
patient.

Q. When somebody saves so many match points like that, do you start to worry that
you've wasted your chances?

CEDRIC PIOLINE: If you miss easy balls, yeah, you can worry because you can say,
"Oh, maybe I'm not going to have a next opportunity." But the way he played, it
was on his serve, two ace, big second serve and good volley, first serve volley. I mean,
what can I do? Only hit a winner return, okay. But I didn't do it, so I was waiting for a
good one.

Q. How far do you feel you can go in this tournament?

CEDRIC PIOLINE: I don't know. Next round.

Q. Assuming he wins, what would your strategy be against Michael Chang?

CEDRIC PIOLINE: He's very solid player from the baseline. Now he's serving well also.
So it's going to be a tough match. I think just play my game from baseline and try to
maybe go to the net, you know, not waiting for his errors.

Q. How have you matched up against him in your career?

CEDRIC PIOLINE: I don't know. Something Love, something for him and Love for me.

Q. Any way you can compare your playing now to the year that you made the final here or
to even how you played at Wimbledon this past summer when you made that final?

CEDRIC PIOLINE: Compared to now?

Q. Yes. Do you feel the same at all with either Wimbledon or the Open?

CEDRIC PIOLINE: You know tennis, things come and go. I play good here. I'm not thinking
about what I did at Wimbledon or here at the US Open. I think I could play good tennis. I
think Chang is going to win, so it's a big match. I'm going to start this match with
thinking I have good chances, you know. That's it.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT