EUTELSAT MONTE CARLO OPEN
April 26, 1996
Cedric Pioline
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. The score is severe, but it wasn't so easy.
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  No, it wasn't easy at all.  What was determining is that I started off a lot better than he did.  I really tried even to exaggerate, to do everything in the beginning, to try to warm up, and finally it worked well.  After having won the first two games, there were four games where he was wondering what was happening.  He said, "It's late."  He started to cry for his mother a little bit.  After it was okay for me.  The second set was tougher. 
 

Q. We had the impression, even though it didn't last long, that at a certain time in the second set you seemed to be tired, you had a down period?
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  He played better afterwards.  He tried to have longer rallies, and he let me come up.  He played points for me to attack.  He was trying to counterattack me.  I was between two things:  I was wanting to go fast, and I was missing a little; or I wanted to wait.  Finally it was okay.  It was the game upside down. Everything depended on a few points.  Things could have  turned over in the second set, and we might still even be playing now. 
 

Q. It's the first time you're winning the quarterfinals at this hour?
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  Outdoors, yes. 
 

Q. Yesterday you said that it was a strange feeling and a strange atmosphere.  Was it the same today?
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  I can't even find the right word to describe it.  I don't know.  You find the word. 
 

Q. In the end, did you feel cramps or not?
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  Not at all. 
 

Q. Is it difficult to wait all the time like this?
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  Mentally, yes, it is.  We are waiting.  People tell us, "You're going to play on Court No. 2.  You're not going to play on Court No. 2, it's not raining any more."  At 8:30 we got back and we waited a long time.  We almost went on the court.  Then we came back to the locker rooms.  It's difficult, but once again for me it's a great improvement because I was able to overcome all that. 
 

Q. Why all those breaks in the second set?
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  I think it's due to everything I explained.  The conditions were extreme.  I had an opponent who was holding into the match in spite of a severe score. Myself, sometimes I didn't really know if I had to attack or  if I had to stay back.  We couldn't see very well.  All this explains that the match was not usual. 
 

Q. It was raining again a little bit in the end.  Was it bothering you?  You were wiping yourself between each rally.
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  It was more humidity, perspiration, and I had drops falling into my eyes. 
 

Q. And how is your nose?  You hit yourself with your racquet and we had the feeling you were bleeding.
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  Yes, I was bleeding.  I think it's due to the humidity maybe with the effort. 
 

Q. You made acrobatic backhand and we had the feeling that you hit yourself?
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  No. 
 

Q. Has it happened already this bleeding?
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  Yes, it happened already to me, but it's rare. 
 

Q. Do you believe you can recuperate for tomorrow without problem?
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  Yes, this is what we're going to tell them. 
 

Q. We heard that Costa would have preferred to play tomorrow.  Do you know about that?
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  Ask him the question.  I can't answer for him.  I wanted to play tonight, and that's what  is important. 
 

Q. According to what we heard, you wanted to delay the match on Court No. 2 because of the light?  You wanted the dark to come so you would not be bothered?
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  This is nonsense. 
 

Q. Did your first victory in the finals in Copenhagen make you play differently?
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  Yes.  My confidence is higher than in the past.  Yes, it helps me. 
 

Q. We have the feeling that compared with three years ago when you went to the finals, that you are more solid, that the boss on the court is you.  Do you also have this impression?
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  I try to show my power, and this certainly explains what you're saying. 
 

Q. Let's talk about the match against Muster.
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  First thing I'm going to see how I wake up tomorrow morning.  It's going to be difficult.  He has very few losses on clay during the past year or so.  I believe that I have to continue to play the same way.  I have to mix the game a little, wait until he gives me points that I can attack and I can go up to the net.  I don't have to ask too many questions to myself.  On top of it, I'm playing well these days.  I'm going to try to prepare myself properly, given the time that is left to me.  
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT