EUTELSAT MONTE CARLO OPEN
April 25, 1996
Cedric Pioline
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. What is your feeling about the whole match?
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  I can only be satisfied.  It was "Super Cedric Pioline" today.  I think so.  I can only say that.  It was difficult from all points of view.  I came out the winner with panache, and it was very good. 
 

Q. Physically it was difficult?
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  Yes, because we had to hit the ball quite strongly, and it was difficult for the legs and the top of the body because the balls were very heavy and you had to play many shots before you could win a point, therefore it was more difficult than normal.  You had to go further in your effort. 
 

Q. The conditions were very bothersome.  Were you asked at some stage if you wanted to stop?
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  A little bit in the beginning, but afterwards it was strange because neither one nor the other wanted to stop.  It was very strange -- a very strange atmosphere to play at three or four o'clock in the afternoon with light under that little rain, and the people who stayed, to see that haze on top of our heads, it was a bit  electric. 
 

Q. You were afraid that the rain would become heavier and that the effort would be interrupted?  It must be very difficult stop in the middle of a match like that.
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  I didn't really want the match to stop.  I felt it was tight, but I thought it was better to continue the effort rather than stopping.  He might recuperate and we would have to start on other basis. 
 

Q. How do you explain the difference between the first and the second set?  The first one was tight.
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  I made some bad choices at the end of the first set.  I was in a bit of a hurry, and he took advantage of it.  I still had some opportunities, 15-40 two or three times.  At 4-3 I had 15-40, at 5-4 I had 15-40, and I didn't win the games.  I thought I had to continue.  After things went by more easily.  I believe he let go slightly in the second set.  After that, it was tight in the third set again. 
 

Q. We had the impression that you were hitting stronger in the second set.  Was it just an impression or was it him who had a bad moment?
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  I tried to push him a little bit. The first set was tight, therefore I pushed him a bit more, and under the pressure he let go a little.  When he saw that he was down two breaks, he let go because he thought it was  better to start the third set. 
 

Q. You played a match with many breaks, you came back, you didn't panic.
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  It's often like that on clay. It's not like hard courts where a break is decisive for the set.  Here it's better to do it, but it's not decisive in the same way. 
 

Q. We have a statistic saying that all the breakpoints on your serve were not successful for you, whereas the breakpoints on your serve are more successful.  How do you explain this difference?  We have the impression that you are more comfortable on your own breakpoints.
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  I probably play well when I'm down.  I try to recuperate the situation.  Apparently I play well on those points. 
 

Q. It shows your confidence?
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  It's difficult to explain in that way.  Apparently I play well those points. 
 

Q. Did you change physically during the match?
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  No.  I think it was quite even compared with him who had good times and bad times.  I was quite constant in my effort.  I think it's one of the reasons why I won also. 
 

Q. Do you think that match might have consequences physically?  Do you feel tired? 
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  I feel tired as normal after such a match.  I will see tomorrow morning how I feel.  Normally I will be less fresh than this morning. 
 

Q. Santoro was saying that normally he has no pain in the arms, but since he's been here, he had massages on the top of the body.  Is it the same for you?
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  No.  We don't have the same size. 
 

Q. In the beginning of the third set, you were broken.
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  I was expecting the match to change.  I was expecting it after 6-Love.  It is obvious that he wasn't going to let go of the match without trying something, and it happened.  He started playing in a more opportunistic way, and therefore it was more difficult.  In fact, the whole match was played with those two or three games.  The following game, if he wins 3-1, it's completely different for me.  I had I don't know how many breakpoints, game points.  If he wins the game, it's completely different.  This doesn't mean I would have lost, but then he -- it was very bad for him to lose that game. In the following service game for him, he made four mistakes. 
 

Q. In the Hit Parade of your matches, where would you locate this match?
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  On the podium.  
 

Q. On the podium with a bronze medal?
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  Better than that. 
 

Q. After those difficult games in the beginning of the third set, we had the feeling that after you really hit the ball strongly, that you were hitting your first serve, that you were going up to the net.  You felt that the battle of the beginning of the third set had changed sides because after you hit really strong?
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  I felt that he was mentally down, and I tried to push him in order to put pressure on him.  I wanted to make him feel that he had lost these games, and it worked.  It's a good thing to push him, but you should not go too fast and rush. 
 

Q. Now you're going to play Costa?
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  He beat good players.  He had a shorter match today.  Apparently he's a good claycourter. There's a long time we didn't play against each other. 
 

Q. What are your head-to-heads?
 
CORINNE MILLIAND:  1-0 in 1992 in the first round, 6-3, 6-3. 
 

Q. The fact that Costa is an aggressive player is rather favorable for you or not?
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  They both have the same kind of game.  They are attackers from the baseline. 
 

Q. But he goes up to the net? 
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  Yes, he goes up to the net.  He has a complete game, and I will have to counterattack one way or the other. 
 

Q. Compared with the final you played in 1993, do you have the impression that you improved even more?
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  On clay it's one of my best matches because of the opponent, because of the conditions, the way the match turned out.  It's one of the best matches I've played during the past four years. 
 

Q. What do you do better than before?
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  What changed is the mental side because today it was very difficult, and the conditions were hostile.  I was able to maintain my game and to hold out for the whole match, even when I was down, and that's a great improvement. 
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT