EUTELSAT MONTE CARLO OPEN
April 24, 1996
Cedric Pioline
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. How did you find him on the other side of the net? He was saying that he felt a bit sick.  He wasn't like usual.
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  I only took care of myself.  Maybe he made a bit more mistakes than usual.  I thought I played also a very good match.  Now it's difficult to know whether he was making mistakes because of me or because he was sick. 
 

Q. We had the impression that during the first set you were both hitting well on both sides and, indeed, maybe you discouraged him for the second set.
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  Ask him the question.  I thought I played well.  I don't know how he felt on the other side of the net. 
 

Q. Compared with your other matches, did you change something or did you believe you should hit on one side or on the other side?
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  I tried to be more consistent, although I still have some progress to make in this field. All during the match I tried to have a good quality in my  game and it worked well. 
 

Q. Do you agree with Santoro when he said that the balls here are all right when they are new, but after they become bigger and they are very slow?
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  I like those balls.  I always played well with those balls, so I'm not going to complain. It suits me very well. 
 

Q. Were you feeling perfectly fit?
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  Yes.  Some games were quite tough, but I wasn't tired, and I'm satisfied with what I've done today. 
 

Q. In the first set you were exchanging your serves during four games in a row.  Didn't you risk to lose your concentration?
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  This can be the turning point of the set, of course.  I believed I had to remain consistent during the whole set, even the match.  It's a great improvement. 
 

Q. It's a nice victory?
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  Yes.  I had never beaten him before.  It's the second player I hadn't beaten this year, so it's very good. 
 

Q. When you played him last time, you had won the first set with a tiebreaker and the second set you had match points against him? 
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  No.  I lost the second set with a tiebreaker, and the third set was very tight. 
 

Q. Did you lose concentration because of the score of Boetsch Santoro?
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  I heard people making noise and I watched at 6-5 match point for Santoro.  I started thinking about it, and I almost lost my serve. 
 

Q. Did you serve well?
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  On the whole, yes. 
 

Q. Are you ready for next round, either Medvedev or Philippoussis?
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  Yes. 
 

Q. Did you play Medvedev this year?
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  Yes, in Key Biscayne.  He beat me easily. 
 

Q. Wouldn't it be better if it was the other one on the clay?
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  Yes, but I think things are not going well for him.  Before that, I had always beaten Medvedev.  Anyway, it's going to be a tough match because he's a good player. 
 

Q. He is playing well again, and you too.


End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT