TMS MONTE CARLO
April 19, 2001
Cedric Pioline
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 

THE MODERATOR:  First question, please.  


Q.  What happened at the end of the first set? We had the impression that you were dominating, and the tiebreaker started off very badly. 

CEDRIC PIOLINE: I took risks.  Maybe I wanted to start too fast, and in the end I lost the first points.  And when you are down 4-love, 5-love in a tiebreaker, it becomes very complicated.  I don't believe I was really on top of him.  It was quite tight. 


Q.  In the wind, you have to find the right balance between taking risks and playing safe.  Is that more difficult?

CEDRIC PIOLINE: Of course.  He played a better match than I did with the wind.  He was able to adapt his game.  I had to take many risks from my point of view to try to over-run him.  From the baseline, it's more difficult.  The ball moves a lot, and I made errors. It's complicated.  But on the other side, I had to play that way because it's part of my game. 


Q.  With him playing the rally and waiting for him to make the mistakes, you can't do it? You think it's lost before starting?

CEDRIC PIOLINE: It's lost for me with many players because it has never been part of my game and it's not today that I'm going to start to do that kind of thing.  I can try to hold the rally to find the opening, but I cannot hold the rally until he makes a mistake.  It's not my game. 


Q.  You felt good until the moment when you were broken in the very beginning, and then you came back?

CEDRIC PIOLINE: Yes.  It was not bad, but I made errors. As soon as I was able to accelerate, I missed.  As simple as that.  I missed or I'm not aggressive enough.  This is really something I have to improve on.  There's a major obstacle there. 


Q.  The other day when you were accelerating, the ball was staying in the court but there was no wind.  Maybe that's what made the difference?

CEDRIC PIOLINE: The other day there was no wind and I didn't have a rabbit across the net.  Today I had a rabbit across the net.  He was running a lot, he returned many shots, he played a good match given the conditions and given my game.  He really played a very good match. 


Q.  What lessons do you draw from this tournament? It's a rather good one all the same.  Don't you have the impression you are raising your game?

CEDRIC PIOLINE: Yes, it's a lot better now.  It's not as good as I would like it to be, but it's better, and I hope it's going to continue to improve in the following weeks because it's always a pleasure to find your game again.  I hope it's going to continue to rise, and I'm going to enjoy it even more in the following weeks.


Q.  Where will the following weeks take you?

CEDRIC PIOLINE: Barcelona, Rome, Hamburg and the French Open. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT