EUTELSAT MONTE CARLO OPEN
April 23, 1996
Cedric Pioline
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What do you think of your match, apart from the fact that it was a bit long?

CEDRIC PIOLINE:  Matches with interruptions are always difficult.  Each time you have to start a new match, you have time to think about what is going on, to speak with your coach.  Each time it's another match.  I am very pleased that each time I was able to control the match.


Q. Was it a bit difficult to start again with a service game?  Did it bother you in the second set?

CEDRIC PIOLINE:  No, not particularly.


Q. Were you informed of the length of the interruption by the weather service?

CEDRIC PIOLINE:  I had the impression that they are not very precise in their forecast.  I had heard about 1:30, and nothing happened.  In fact, we just saw they were uncovering the court five minutes before.


Q. You were not informed beforehand?

CEDRIC PIOLINE:  No, not at all.


Q. Is your confidence at the same level as your match point, where you really hit your return? 

CEDRIC PIOLINE:  With one break and up Love-40 on my opponent's serve, if I don't try something, it means that I'm really not confident.


Q. I have a small question which has nothing to do with sports.  There are new rules concerning clothes in tennis.  What do you think of that?

CEDRIC PIOLINE:  What are those rules?


Q. Apparently you need to have shirts with collars and special shorts.  Does that bother you?  Do you think it's a good thing to have those regulations?

CEDRIC PIOLINE:  Yes, I believe it's very good. Sometimes some players go too far.  I believe that it's a good thing to have a regulation and to have correct clothing just for the people you are playing for, for television, even if sometimes you can have something a bit special. Sometimes I believe it's a good thing that they be strict rules.


Q. So tennis retained its image of white shorts, white shirts?

CEDRIC PIOLINE:  That's the image of my sponsor. Things developed a lot lately.  For the past years we've seen plenty of different things on the courts.  It's a good thing, but anarchy is not a good thing either.


Q. What did you do after Davis Cup and you had two weeks' break? 

CEDRIC PIOLINE:  Mainly I rested.  A week in Davis Cup is always tiring.  I rested and I trained a little bit in Paris.  I came early here on Wednesday so I could play with other players belonging to the circuit because in Paris you don't have the same sparring partners.  It's good to train in the tournament conditions.


Q. You still have no coach?

CEDRIC PIOLINE:  What?


Q. These two weeks' break, did they allow you to think about your first victory in Copenhagen and the Davis Cup? Did this change anything mentally?

CEDRIC PIOLINE:  The main thing was the confidence.  It increased because I made a great step forward compared with my past that everybody knows.  It was the main thing.  Since the calendar allows us to play every week, we don't have much time to think about what happened. We always have to go forward.  Two weeks, it's long and short at the same time.  It goes by very quickly.  You always have to go forward, to think about the next tournament.  Now it's the claycourt season.  It starts with -- for me with Monte-Carlo.  I didn't have much time to think about all that.


Q. Your next round will be a good test to know where you are standing now?

CEDRIC PIOLINE:  Yes, it's a tight match. 


Q. You didn't have a lot of success against him?

CEDRIC PIOLINE:  Some matches were close; others not so close.  It's always a good test.  He's a top 10 player, so I will be able to see where I'm standing.  He lost twice first round, I believe.  He will want to do well here, I imagine, and me, too, so it can be an interesting match.


Q. Compared to the other times you played him, are you going to change your tactics or do you know exactly how to play him even if you can't succeed?

CEDRIC PIOLINE:  I try to draw the lessons from my defeats.  The last time I was quite close to winning was indoors in Rotterdam.  Anyway, if you want to hope to beat those kinds of players, you have to be very consistent.  My game is developing, is getting to a higher level.  I hope it will be enough against him.


Q. You never won against Kafelnikov.  Can you describe what happens in your mind when you meet -- when you play someone that you never beat before?

CEDRIC PIOLINE:  There's a psychological effect, no doubt.  When you go onto the court, you say to yourself, "I never beat him.  What is going to happen today?  Am I going to lose again?"  It's the basic reasoning.  Now, you have to go beyond that and believe that it's a new match.  Maybe the opponent has a bit of pressure on himself because he says,  "I always beat him.  Is it going to continue on not?"  So it goes both ways.


Q. Today we had the impression from outside that you knew what you had to do at the right moment, even if you were in a difficult position two or three times.

CEDRIC PIOLINE:  He has a brilliant game, but he is quite stereotyped, he does always the same thing more or less.  Once you know what he's doing, it's easier because you can anticipate.  Apparently I know what he's doing, and he can't do other things.


Q. Between this morning and this afternoon, did you find the surface changed a lot?  Did it become really slow?

CEDRIC PIOLINE:  It was heavier, more difficult to play winners.


Q. If the weather remains as it is, are you afraid that the claycourt specialists, the Spaniards, will be favored?

CEDRIC PIOLINE:  Yes.  I think it gives them a slight advantage.  They like to have long rallies with heavier balls and a heavier court.  It's going to help them in their game of wearing out the other player.


Q. And what about this surface, this kind of surface for you?

CEDRIC PIOLINE:  Today everything went well.  I live day by day. 


Q. Is Kafelnikov a problem for you?

CEDRIC PIOLINE:  No.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT