VOLVO MONTE-CARLO OPEN
April 18, 1994
Cedric Pioline
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  What was the main reason for your loss today?
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  I think -- I don't know.  I would like to know, but I think I played too short with the coming to the net, so I have a lot of pressure and I think that is the reason. 
 

Q.  Did you feel any pain in your injury?
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  No. 
 

Q.  It seems that we saw three matches in one match.  During the first set you were not present on the court.  During the second set you win.  After, on the third set, you lose the opportunity of making the break.  What happened exactly?
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  Well, in the beginning I started very slow into that match and I was not hitting well, the ball, and he was taking his chances.  He was hitting the ball very early and he was going up to the net with a lot of success and after I was well into the match, quite well, but although I was not doing everything I wanted to do, and after I decomposed myself, I was not able to start playing better again and it was difficult to come back in those conditions and this is why I lost the match. 
 

Q.  When you were answering in English you talked about pressure.  Are you very sensitive to that pressure?
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  I was talking about pressure because he was going up to the net and this pressured me because I had to make the passing shot.  When you are not playing very well, it is very difficult. 
 

Q.  Also the pressure of the first round?
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  It is always difficult to play first round for everybody.  For me, today, things didn't turn out well.  But I am going to keep on training and I hope for the next tournaments things will turn out better. 
 

Q.  How much training do you have behind you? How many days did you train?
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  Well, not much.  I started playing ten days ago.  I started training again, but some of those days, there was rain, so in fact, it is a bit less than that. 
 

Q.  He said that last year when he played you at Lyon you were much, much stronger.  He thinks you are better on hard surfaces than on clay surfaces.  Do you agree with him?
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  Not really because I played well on every surface, so I played very good last year here and I played Munchen very good, so I don't think I play a lot better on hard court or indoor. 
 

Q.  Are you able to forget a loss like this one? Do you think about all the points that are at stake in such a match?
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  Well, while you are playing the match, you don't think about those things.  There are more urgent things to do and winning points or losing points is our daily need in this sport anyway and I don't consider myself as a young player anymore so I got used to this idea.  In fact, I had many points to fight for this week and I will have many points next week too, but afterwards not so many.  In fact, the ideal things is to win as well as last year where you have points and  also to win better points where you didn't win them last year.  But during the match, you don't think about all that. 
 

Q.  When you lack concentration, what is the most difficult thing to do, to keep concentrating or is it from the physical point of view, is it the rhythm of the game?
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  No, I think the most difficult thing is the concentration and the mental aspect.  In fact, today I was able to dominate many times and in the end I am not the one who won the match.  So the important thing is to negotiate those important moments and also the moments right after that to be able to conclude on the advantages we can take, so I was able to have some advantages but they were not decisive, so it is more the mental aspect. 
 

Q.  We saw that in Nice also when you take the advantage instead of accelerating the game; on the contrary, you stay back.  Is it because of your concentration?
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  No, it is a matter of being a bit apprehensive of what will happen and of not being sure of oneself.  When you don't go through those moments several times before, you can't manage them well.  The idea would be to take the initiative, but very often it is the contrary that happens and then the opponent takes the initiatives and ends up winning the points. So you must go through those moments several times before to be able to manage them well. 
 

Q.  What is your program?
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  Well, always the same.  Munich, and then one week after then Rome; then Dusseldorf; then Paris. 
 

Q.  Your preparation this year, is it going to be something good or something bad; you wanted to play a lot.
 
CEDRIC PIOLINE:  In fact I wanted to play a lot.  So it is very good because I didn't play many matches lately, so I will be able to play every week afterwards.  I will do a lot of training and hopefully I will play matches and sometime the other things are going to start going well.  In fact it is a matter of training.  At one stage, you start feeling exactly what you do; whereas the minute before, you couldn't feel it properly.  And I am looking after this sensation now. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT