THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 13, 1994
Cedric Pioline
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q.  You seemed very, very relaxed today. Were you not at all
concerned about this match, or did you just want to work on particular
things?

 CEDRIC PIOLINE:  I mean, I didn't play so well the last tournaments,
so I tried to not put pressure on my shoulder, so, I mean, I was
supposed to beat this guy and he is a qualifier, that is it. 
I just took the match like he came.

 Q.  What has happened to your game since the U.S. Open?

 CEDRIC PIOLINE:  A lot of things.  I mean, after U.S. Open I
played very well, and during the winter I not so many times to
practice and when I -- I went to Australia, so after I lose a
bit, now I try to find it.

 Q.  I have been told that Dumont has been changing your strokes
a little bit; no?

 CEDRIC PIOLINE:  Not really.  Not really.  We work maybe some
things too early, too early.

 Q.  Do you feel like you are any closer -- do you even think
about the fact that you are ranked where you are and have not
won a tournament yet, is it a consideration at all for you that
you are one of the 15 best players in the world but you are still
looking for that first tournament win?

 CEDRIC PIOLINE:  No.  I mean, -- I reach one times the quarterfinals
in the beginning of the year, so -- but even if I played well,
it is not -- it is not my first goal, so -- I will be very happy
to win a tournament, but it will come when it come.

 Q.  Your opponent today is a well-known junior player from
south Florida.  What are his prospects for the future?  What did
you think of his game?  Is he going to be a good player?

 CEDRIC PIOLINE:  I mean, today I think he played not so bad,
but he did a bad start maybe because he was impressed about, I
don't know, the match, and after he was a little bit more relaxed
and he hit some good shots, but I think he have to work a lot
to progress on his game.  He has a good backhand. Forehand and
serve is less.  It is less good.

 Q.  Are you more recognized now since the U.S. Open?  Is life
different at all?

 CEDRIC PIOLINE:  Yeah.  Even here in the states, I start to be
recognized and it has changed the way I do things because when
I am going out and go around people are asking me some autograph.
 It is different also.

 Q.  Do you like that?

 CEDRIC PIOLINE:  Yeah, it is not bad.

 Q.  Thank you. 


  End of FastScripts....            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT