U.S. OPEN
September 9, 1993
Cedric Pioline
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Did you think he was off his game the first two sets or you were just playing really well?

CEDRIC PIOLINE:  Yes, it's true, he was off.  I mean, if-- at the beginning was both nervous and it was no winner points for us, but I got in before him, so that's why I took the two sets.


Q. How does it make you feel to be the first Frenchman in 61 years to be in the semifinals?

CEDRIC PIOLINE:  It is a long time.  I don't know, I just work so -- I don't realize-- I don't realize that I'm in the semifinal.  I mean, it is a fantastic week for me, fantastic two weeks and I'm very happy, and maybe I would like to not realize I'm in the semifinal, just keep playing and keep playing my game, and see if I can go-- go one more.


Q. Did you talk to your coach before the match?

CEDRIC PIOLINE:  Yes, before the match, yeah, I called him, and we spoke for-- I mean, 45 minutes, about the match, about all-- anything, everything.


Q. But he will stay in France or he will come here?

CEDRIC PIOLINE:  I don't know, I'm going to call him. Maybe he's coming back, we don't know yet.


Q. How close to your best were you today?

CEDRIC PIOLINE:  I think today it was very up and down. I mean, sometimes I played very well and sometimes I played bad.  But I keep my mind in the match, so that's why I was a little bit consistent, more consistent than him, and sometimes I played very good, but not like against Courier.  I was-- I played very well all the match.  Not today -- 


Q    What did you feel was working particularly well for you tonight that did make a difference?

CEDRIC PIOLINE:  My mind.  Not really my game, I mean, I played some good shorts, good forehand, good backhand.  Sometimes I made some mistake, easy, times.  I serve good, I was serving good, sometimes not, but I was very solid here and I was believing all the time I can win, I can win, I can win here, in my mind.


Q. What about the one point where he had the short balls, you were at the net and you returned those two hard shots, did that point convince you were going to win?

CEDRIC PIOLINE:  At the beginning of what set?

RICHARD FINN: I think you hit two real sharp volleys.


Q. Fourth game of the fourth set.

CEDRIC PIOLINE:  Yeah.  I mean, it was a good point, but not a special point.  It was very good.  Not special.


Q. What are your thoughts about playing Masur in the semifinals?

CEDRIC PIOLINE:  It's fun.  He was not expecting me, and me as him, so it may be strange.  But if he's-- he is playing very well and he's a very solid player, and if you want to beat him, you have to play much better than him.  If not, you lose.


Q. Andrei expressed some discontent of the food and the accommodations and the way things were going the past couple of weeks.  How have you felt?  How has the tournament been going for you; are you happy with the accommodations and the food?

CEDRIC PIOLINE:  It is a hard tournament because it's long away from the city.  The food is not so good, it's noisy, and the players' lounge is so small, with the Junior, it is a lot of things bad, but I mean, it's-- everything is the same for all, so, you have to play with this and try to keep your mind on the tournament.  It's disturbing, but it's like that.


Q. How have you been able to keep your mind off of all those sort of annoying things that have been-- you know, the lounge and everything like that?

CEDRIC PIOLINE:  I try to come just for my match and don't stay too long after and just practice and go away.


Q. He also complained about the scheduling, the fact that the men have to play the semis and finals on consecutive days.  How do you feel about that?

CEDRIC PIOLINE:  I think it is not fair because Sampras and  Volkov played yesterday, and now they get two days off and I have only one, and if it was raining tonight, I go play tomorrow, three straight days.  I think it is not fair, but, I think they have good reason to do that, so, I play.


Q. It must be a new experience for you to stay in a tournament of two weeks, the whole two weeks.  So, do you feel you can keep your strength still until Sunday, maybe?

CEDRIC PIOLINE:  After Saturday, only one more day, so, two weeks is long, but, I mean, I really enjoy my game this week, and I'm very happy to be here and so I try to do my best, and we see Saturday, and maybe we see Sunday.     


End of FastScripts....


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT