US OPEN
September 1, 2000
Cedric Pioline
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Questions for Cedric. 


Q.  How did that rank amongst your comebacks?  Have you done that many times before?

CEDRIC PIOLINE:  Not many, I think.  It's always something special to come back from two sets to love, save match point.  But the first two sets, I had so many chances to break him.  When I tried to just play, you know, point by point, it was a little bit better after.  I could return better.  I always hoped I could come back. 

Q.  Did you think you managed to come back because you weren't playing very well, making a lot of unforced errors in the first two sets?

CEDRIC PIOLINE:  Yeah, sure.  I didn't play for a long time.  It's difficult because Greg is a very good server.  You don't play so many rallies with him.  He's putting a lot of pressure on you, coming in always, all the time.  It's difficult because you have to have a good shot at the good moment.  Maybe it's why also I had a problem at the beginning.

Q.  When you hit the smash, was it an accident?

CEDRIC PIOLINE:  Yeah, I hit the smash because I wanted to finish the point.  I don't know why he came in because the point was over.  He was inside the court.  I don't know why he did that. 

Q.  You've had some epic matches here.  Is there something about the atmosphere here that you thrive on?  Obviously it's a major tournament. 

CEDRIC PIOLINE:  I love New York.  I really enjoy to be here because it's a good atmosphere, everything is a little bit crazy.  The people can make it crazy, like it was on the court.  They get involved in the match.  They try to support me or the other.  It's good ambiance.  As a player, it's very good because it's pushing me to play better, you know, so I like it.  I like to play here.

Q.  Did you have fond memories of last year?  What was your frame of mind coming in?  Were you thinking about last year?

CEDRIC PIOLINE:  Not really because I had a little accident, so I couldn't play during the summer.  When I arrive here, I didn't know what to expect.  I tried just to practice as much as I could and just play match by match because I didn't win this match because I played a good tennis, I know it.  I tried to stay in the match, tried to play also with my heart.  Maybe I can play a little bit better for the next match, I hope.

Q.  When you saved the two match points in the fourth set, did you sense that Rusedski was going to go down from there?  He looked tired. 

CEDRIC PIOLINE:  Since the third set, he looked tired to me.  He looked tired.  He was like slower.  I thought if I could push him to a fifth set, I think I win.  I mean, before the fifth set, you have to win the fourth (smiling). 

Q.  Was there any point in the match where you thought maybe you couldn't come back?

CEDRIC PIOLINE:  Of course.  During a match, it's very long, like this one, you go up, you go down.  You have to manage everything.  Yeah, when I serve for the set in the fourth, then I lost my serve, I was not happy about this.  I thought now maybe I lost my chance.  I had my chance, and I didn't get it. 

Q.  Were you aware that Greg had thrown away a two-set lead last year and maybe it was playing on his mind a bit?

CEDRIC PIOLINE:  Really?  I didn't remember.  That's bad luck. 

Q.  When you didn't hold your serve in the fourth set, maybe the match was going against you, when did you get the feeling back it was coming back your way?  When you saved the two match points?

CEDRIC PIOLINE:  Yeah, when I won the fourth.  I mean, when I serve the match point, it was only 6-All.  Tiebreak can go very fast one way or the other.  You have to stay concentrate, and it's what I try to do.  When I won the fourth set, I thought I had better chance then to win.

Q.  Any win any time is an enjoyable experience.  Are there some experiences that are more enjoyable than others at some stage?  Do you enjoy perhaps beating other players, different players?

CEDRIC PIOLINE:  Yeah, of course.  I try and win.  It's very tiring to play like this.  I played long match.  I know it was up and down.  I didn't enjoy my tennis, but I enjoy the atmosphere, the people, the comeback.

Q.  You seemed to be smiling from about the third set onwards. 

CEDRIC PIOLINE:  Yeah, because I know I don't play my best tennis.  I mean, you can go against (inaudible) be pleased because you don't do what you want to do, and then I think you grew up or you try to play with what you can do.  It's what I'm doing. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT