NASCAR CUP SERIES: COCA-COLA 600
May 24, 2020
Chase Elliott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: We're joined by tonight's third‑place finisher, Chase Elliott. We will go ahead and open the floor for questions. 

Q. What did Kyle Busch say to you post race?
CHASE ELLIOTT: He just felt bad for us. 

Q. When you're in the position of the leader, you have to make the decision, do you generally want to be the aggressor and stay out or pit and attack that way?
CHASE ELLIOTT: You just make the best decision you can based on the information you have. When you are leading the race like that, people behind you are going to do the exact opposite of what you do. 
That was the situation we were put in. Al made the decision, we stuck with it, and it didn't work out. 

Q. Is the feeling tonight similar to the other night? If it is different, how is it different?
CHASE ELLIOTT: It's a little different, for sure. 

Q. How so and why?
CHASE ELLIOTT: We were a lap and a half away from winning the Coca‑Cola 600. 

Q. How do you bounce back from tonight and this past week?
CHASE ELLIOTT: Just try again. That's all you can do. I mean, there is really no other option. I can't rewind time. There's no other choice.

Q. Would this be the toughest stretch you've had in your career, these couple races?
CHASE ELLIOTT: Yeah, this week's been pretty unfortunate. We've had some tough losses in my career, for however many years I've been doing this, five, six years, unfortunately. It is what it is. 

Q. A lot of speed tonight in your car as well as Hendrick. What do you take out of the night to Wednesday?
CHASE ELLIOTT: I couldn't hear you, but it's very unfortunate. I hate it for both myself and my team, our sponsors, the whole nine yards, unfortunate. 
But it is what it is. Can't help it. Those things happen, so... I've watched a lot of races unfold that way. Unfortunate to be on that end of it. It's one of those deals. 
Thanks, guys. 
THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Chase. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT