U.S. OPEN
August 25, 2014
Danielle Rose Collins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  S. HALEP/D. Collins  6-7, 6-1, 6-2   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   Q.  What's the turnaround like for you heading back to school?  DANIELLE ROSE COLLINS: Well, we'll probably try to look into flights and stuff tonight or tomorrow unfortunately.  So it's going to be a quick turnaround, and then first day of classes is tomorrow. I'll be in class this time tomorrow.   Q.  We already miss you.  DANIELLE ROSE COLLINS: I know.  Summer was too much fun.   Q.  Is that a jarring turnaround for you?  DANIELLE ROSE COLLINS: Eh, yeah.  Yeah. You know, I love UVA, but school's tough.  School is very tough.  So back to work for me.   Q.  It's not like you have had a lot of time to sit down and go over it, but what do you take as an experience, playing in Ashe and the second seed?  DANIELLE ROSE COLLINS: Well, I mean, it's obviously an incredible experience.  It was my childhood dream to play in a Grand Slam and to play in the US Open.  I got that off the bucket list. I obviously had a really good experience taking a set off the No. 2 ranked girl in the world.  I think there is a lot of positive things to take from it.  It can only go up from here for me. Obviously a big confidence booster.  You know, I don't think a lot of people were expecting me to take a set off of her, so overall, an incredible experience. I mean, that's something I'll never forget.   Q.  Did you enter with no expectations?  You had nothing to lose.  What was your mindset facing a player like that.  DANIELLE ROSE COLLINS: Yeah, I just kind of -- I think a lot of times people get a little bit intimidated if they focus too much on who they're playing against, especially if you're looking at it, like, oh, you're playing Simona Halep or you're playing the No. 2 girl in the world. I kind of threw all of that out the door and took the pressure off myself and just really focused on the things I could do and the things that I could control. I used that, and, yeah.   Q.  What was it like to have the stadium behind you?  DANIELLE ROSE COLLINS: Oh, it was awesome.  I have never played at that level and I have never played in a stadium like that. It was amazing.  I mean, I could get used to that (laughter).   Q.  Congratulations on making the US Open.  DANIELLE ROSE COLLINS: Thank you.   Q.  Can you talk about your run to the NCAA championship?  I'm sure it was a surprise for a lot of people.  DANIELLE ROSE COLLINS: Yeah.  You know, I think it was mainly surprising just because of a lot of the injuries that I was dealing with throughout the year. But, you know, I work with two really great coaches and they have always had a lot of confidence and faith in me.  You know, I feel like when you surround yourself with good people, it makes everything a lot more easier. So I was always really confident and believed in myself leading up to the end of the tournament, and so I went in there with the attitude, you know, I can do this and I can, you know, play with these girls and beat these girls. That was like the main thing that helped me and led me to winning.   Q.  Back to school.  Are you going to be playing any ITF events or anything after the college season?  DANIELLE ROSE COLLINS: Yeah.  That's going to be the plan, to play some more pro tournaments.  Maybe play a couple pro tournaments during the fall season. Fortunately we are allowed to do that, so that will be more experience I can get under my belt for the future.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT