UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 22, 2006
Travis Thomas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q.  Try convincing us this is just another game. 
 TRAVIS THOMAS:  It is just another game when you look at the schedule.  It's just another team.  But, you know, since it's the last game, regardless who it is, it's always the most important game because you want to finish out the season strong. 
 But, I mean, for them, for us, this game means a lot.  It carries a lot of weight.  Both teams are putting a lot into it.  You have nothing to lose really. 

 Q.  Your perspective on USC.  Obviously they weren't the power when you were a kid growing up they are now.  They do have great tradition, history Heisman Trophy winners.  What was your perspective growing up on them? 
 TRAVIS THOMAS:  Growing up, had a lot of tradition.  Guys like Marcus Allen, Willie McGinest, guys you've been watching all along come out of there, guys like Notre Dame Jerome Bettis and things like that.  Really similar in tradition and pride.  The rivalry is one of the biggest in college history.  When the two meet up, it's going to be a battle to the end. 

 Q.  The fact nobody here on this team has been on a team that has defeated USC, how do you use that?  Is that something you use as motivation? 
 TRAVIS THOMAS:  I think that's something you can use as motivation.  I mean, if you haven't beaten a team in so many years, you obviously want to end that streak.  It's something hard to go against knowing that the team sort of owns you. 
 Yeah, it's definitely something we use. 

 Q.  When Coach Weis came in, one of his first statements was that we were going to have a disciplined, in particular nasty football team.  To what degree do you think you accomplished that goal of being a nasty football team? 
 TRAVIS THOMAS:  I think we come a long way since Coach Weis has come in.  I really think we've bought into the system, you know, being the second year he's here.  I think everyone has a feel for what he stands for. 
 I think any team kind of takes on the role of their head coach and the mentality that he has.  I think we've come a long way, but I still think we have a ways to go. 

 Q.  It's a continuing process? 
 TRAVIS THOMAS:  Absolutely. 

 Q.  How would you interpret what 'nasty' means? 
 TRAVIS THOMAS:  Nasty?  Just physical.  I mean, you know, having a sense of swagger, arrogance.  Not necessarily arrogance, but just confidence, believing that you're going to win every game you play.  I think that's his definition of nasty.  Going out there and trying to dominate every opponent you face. 

 Q.  Maybe internal arrogance? 
 TRAVIS THOMAS:  Just confidence.  I'll say that's the most internal thing right there. 

 Q.  You talked about just it being another game.  Do you pay attention to the implications of this game, if not just for you guys but for USC? 
 TRAVIS THOMAS:  I think when you watch TV, it's plastered everywhere.  You have no choice but to be able to see it. 
 We all know the significance of this game, the weight it holds for the post-season BCS standings and everything like that.  It's not something you can kind of not see.  You can block it out and focus on what you have to do in a sense, but you're aware of it. 

 Q.  From watching tape of USC's offense, how have you seen John David Booty improve throughout the year? 
 TRAVIS THOMAS:  I haven't really watched him from beginning to end.  From what I've seen, he's a good quarterback. 

 Q.  How does he compare to some of the other quarterbacks you've seen? 
 TRAVIS THOMAS:  From other teams or USC specifically? 

 Q.  From other teams and from USC. 
 TRAVIS THOMAS:  I mean, he's different.  Every quarterback you face every week is going to be different.  He brings something different to the table. 
 Obviously he's new.  It's his first year as a starter.  He has talent.  He's a good quarterback. 

 Q.  You say every quarterback brings something different.  What is it different that you see out of him? 
 TRAVIS THOMAS:  I mean, you can throw different.  Just like every runningback has a different style, every quarterback has a different throwing style.  They run a different type of offense.  It's just different every week. 

 Q.  Has Raymond talked much about coming home this week?  Is that something he's been talking about a lot? 
 TRAVIS THOMAS:  No.  I haven't heard anything like that from him.  He obviously knows he's going back home.  He knows what's ahead and what has to be done.  This is not sort of like a rah-rah vacation trip.  This is a business trip.  We have a game to play and to try to win. 

 Q.  What for you is the first moment or play that comes to mind from last season's USC game? 
 TRAVIS THOMAS:  There's two to that come mind to thinking about it.  The long bomb with so many seconds left, fourth and like 20.  Obviously, the very last play, the quarterback sneak when Leinart was pushed into the end zone. 

 Q.  What went through your mind when that happened, that last play? 
 TRAVIS THOMAS:  When the clock had ran out, you know, Mo Stovall and I were on the 30 yard line jumping up and down thinking we won the game.  You had everyone rushing the field.  Then the refs called everyone back to the sideline, put so many seconds back on the clock.  That was a shock right there.  But we still felt we had a chance to hold them out. 
 Unfortunately, things didn't go our way.  They were able to pull it off. 

 Q.  Much different role this year.  Did you carry 18 times last year?  Was it that much? 
 TRAVIS THOMAS:  I think so.  16, 18, yeah. 

 Q.  I don't really have a specific question.  Just kind of a comment, how interesting that your role and perspective on this game is completely different than last year. 
 TRAVIS THOMAS:  It's a lot different.  You know, I'm watching the offense now as opposed to watching the defense.  That's different in itself. 
 My role on offense, I don't know exactly how large that will be.  That's something to look forward to and see how that pans out.  I mean, it's still a game.  It's still USC.  It's still that great tradition, great battle that I'm expecting, physical game play. 
 I'm just on the opposite side of the ball. 

 Q.  What do you think separates USC from everybody else?  I know they didn't win the national title last year.  They are the dominant team here for the last few years.  Obviously great talent.  There's a lot of great talent all over the country.  How do you think they've been able to separate themselves? 
 TRAVIS THOMAS:  Their ability to put the foot to the pedal, pull away in the end.  That really separates a good team from a great team, when they can come out in the second half and just blow teams away. 
 Their ability to, you know, play a whole ballgame is what separates them from a lot of teams. 

 TRAVIS THOMAS:  Thank you. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT