ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 4, 2013
Al Golden
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  


  


  MIKE FINN:   We now welcome Miami head coach Al Golden.   We'll bring on coach, ask for a brief opening statement, then go to questions.   
COACH GOLDEN:   Obviously a great opportunity for our program, a great setting, 12 noon at Sun Life against the Gators.   We're excited.   
Just finished our Wednesday practice.   Getting ready to look at some film now.   
So any questions, like to move to that if we could.   
   
 Q.   I wanted to ask you about the program importance of this game.   It's the first time you played Florida since 2008.   You know you probably go head‑to‑head recruiting against them in the state, especially in the Miami area a lot.   Can you talk about the impact this game has on reestablishing Miami's position in Florida as the premiere program in the state.   
COACH GOLDEN:   Well, I think they're all important.   As I said yesterday, doesn't hurt to win.   I don't think there's any question about it.   
In terms of us selecting the kids that we want to recruit, going after them, what Florida does, what Florida State does, any of the other schools, everybody has their own plan.   
At the end of the day, we're responsible for how we play and who we recruit.   Again, I think there's a lot of kids that think they can help the Miami Hurricanes and help us get back to where we want to go.   I'm sure there's some kids that feel the same way about Florida and Florida State and other schools.   
It's really about us building our program, sticking to our plan.   But, as I said, I don't think it hurts to win.   I think winning would go a long way for sure.   
   
 Q.   Any estimation of how many prospects will be on hand Saturday?  
COACH GOLDEN:   I don't.   I mean that respectfully.   I have no clue other than trying to get the team ready.   I have no idea what's going on outside.   We'll sit down Friday and get a list of who is coming.   It's a who's who from what I understand.   There's no seats left for everybody.   We've added two thousand seats to the stadium.   Running out of seats for former players, coaches, recruits, on down the line.   It's going to be a great atmosphere.   
   
 Q.   I wonder, you're coming off a pretty solid win over another Florida team.   With Florida looming, did you hold anything back going into that game?   
COACH GOLDEN:   No.   I mean, the biggest thing we found with opening games, to be honest with you, and it's a lesson, I'll going into my eighth year as a head coach, you have to heed each opponent.   North Dakota State beat Kansas State.   Eastern Washington beat Oregon State.   McNeese beat South Florida.   Northern Iowa beat Iowa State.   Eastern Illinois beat SanDiego State.   Western Kentucky beat Kentucky.   
Again, we played a really tough team, a team that was ready to play against us.   They exposed some things that we've got to get fixed, which is good.   We were 3‑0 at the end of the first quarter.   We were fighting.   Everybody was poised.   We learned a lot about our team, now we have to fix it and get better.   
I don't think you can sit there and say we're going to hold everything back based on next week.   Those teams have their hands full.   
   
 Q.   You said you found some mistakes.   What do you have to most correct?  
COACH GOLDEN:   Clearly we weren't as good as we need to be or we have been in completion percentage and on third‑down conversions on offense.   I don't think there's any question.   We'll throw and catch the ball better.   I'm excited about that.   We weren't as good on special teams as we needed to be.   
Again, hate to say that without giving credit to Florida Atlantic.   I thought they played outstanding on special teams.   There's a myriad of other things we have to do, in addition to getting some guys ready to play that are going to have to play more this week.   I don't think there's any question.   
MIKE FINN:   Al, thanks for being with us today.   
COACH GOLDEN:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT