ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 10, 2012
Al Golden
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


  COACH GOLDEN:   We're back home.   Had to play what I think is the hottest teams in our conference in NorthCarolina.   Explosive on offense, averaging 44 points a game and nearly 500 yards.   The offensive line is excellent, veterans.   I think they've only given up four sacks.   They have everything you're looking for in a tight end running back and wide receiver.   I think, obviously, Bernard coming back has added kind of a boost for NorthCarolina.   But A.J. Blue, the other running back that plays is excellent as well. 
I think their quarterback is doing a nice job now.   His touchdown‑interception ratio is tremendous, and he's really confident right now. 
On defense, athletic, fast, very strong up front, taking the ball away, being disruptive with tackles for loss and keeping opponents under 18 points a game and this is the most compete special teams unit that I've seen on film so far.   So great challenge for us from not only for a Coastal Division rival, but somebody that's playing really well right now.

Q.   Coming off that Notre Dame game, what is the emphasis for your defense in terms of how to improve and stop that high‑powered offense of Carolina? 
COACH GOLDEN:   Just to move forward.   We're really not a defense right now that's focused on other people as much as we are just trying to improve ourselves and execute ourselves.   We're hoping for some continuity now in terms of our lineups.   We have some guys growing up.   We really don't have too many guys that haven't been exposed to a college game now or this level of competition. 
We need guys to step up and play well.   And clearly if we're not good on third downs in the red zone against this team, it's not good.   So that's one of the emphasis for sure.

Q.   You talked last week about all the big concerns the Notre Dame defense posed for you.   How much do you just write last week off that we were playing such a good defense.   Or how much are you saying we need to fix this or fix that to get better on offense this week? 
COACH GOLDEN:   Well, we do.   I think NorthCarolina's playing as good as any team we've played so far in all three phases.   They're explosive on offense, can score in a hurry, also have the running game in balance.   They're disruptive on defense, and can take the ball away in their returning kicks and punts.   They have great coverage from their special teams.   This is a come pleat team, that's playing really well, with a lot of confidence right now.

Q.   We haven't had a chance to talk to you since your AD resigned and now you're looking for your third AD in four years.   How important is it for the program to get stability up at the time, something that Miami has had in the past? 
COACH GOLDEN:   Yeah, we need that.   I don't think there is any question.   One of the characteristics we should be looking for is someone that wants to be a part of the South Florida community and be part of the Miami community and be here for a long time.   It's important to all of the coaches, not just me, but guys like Jim Morris who have been here for a long time, and Katie Meier, and all of the coaches on our staff.   So it's critical that we find someone that wants to be here.

Q.   As a coach, is it concerning that you've had so much turnover here in the last couple of years? 
COACH GOLDEN:   No, it's not concerning at all.   Shawn is a good friend and a great AD.   He did what he thought was best for his family, and clearly that's different from how I feel or how Katie Meier feels or how Jim Larranaga feels.   We want to be here at Miami, and we want to build this program. 
Certainly from a football standpoint, I'm excited because we are playing so many young guys.   So right now the message for our team is invest, because we have so many guys that are going to be with us for a long time.

Q.   I'm sure you've got a hundred other things on your mind earlier this week, but one of your mentors, Al Groh, was let go at Georgia Tech.   Is it an awkward situation for you to know how to respond or when to respond or if you want to respond or call Al or whatever? 
COACH GOLDEN:   Yeah, I just think, again, you guys are involved in the stuff as it comes out, so we're so engrossed in NorthCarolina, that I couldn't even‑‑ I heard about it really quickly yesterday or last night.   I was shocked.   I don't think there is any question everybody knows how I feel about Coach and what he's meant to my career and the opportunities that he afforded me. 
But I'm not there.   I don't know what's transpired.   I know, Al, if he wants to continue to coach, he'll bounce back.   He's an excellent coach. 
From my standpoint, I think it's important to give him some time, and I'll reach out to he and Ann.   As I told him before the game, I'm grateful and thankful for all he's done for me and our family.

Q.   When you prepare for NorthCarolina, one of the things that Coach Fedora talks about a lot is the tempo on offense, the pass tempo.   How difficult is that to prepare for?   How much of that is a focus on your preparation? 
COACH GOLDEN:   Yeah, it's tough to prepare for.   It's hard to replicate that when you're trying to look at a card.   I think the thing that's making it all run is Carolina's in good on condition right now.   The other thing Coach would say is his trigger man is doing a great job with distributing the ball, with Tapley and Highsmith and Davis, and they have all the wideouts. 
I know there are other guys there too, but those guys jump out at you.   Renner's throwing it well, and then they have Bernard and Blue, and that's why they have the answers on offense.

Q.   You guys have won a few shootouts.   Could we be looking for another one Saturday? 
COACH GOLDEN:   You guys can look for it, I looked the other way.   We're the Cardiac Kings right now.   We're just trying to win.   I don't know what's going to transpire.   But if you're year is any indication, here's what we do know.   We know we don't know what's going to transpire. 

Q.   What does the film reveal about their offensive line and how it functions?
COACH GOLDEN:   Number one, I don't want to short change anybody, because all of the offensive linemen starting five are excellent in their own ways.   But the two guys that jump out is Cooper at left guard, this guy is as good as anybody and Williams at right tackle.   Those guys are as good as anybody at their position in the game and they play like it.   They're active, the can run.   They're knee benders and can play with leverage.   Very talented young men.   Excellent offensive line in terms of experience.   I think they go three seniors, a junior and a sophomore, and long and strong and obviously athletic.

Q.   I was going to ask you about Cooper, but you beat me to the punch there. 
COACH GOLDEN:   He is good.   Lot of respect for the way he plays.   The other guys as well.   It's a veteran line.   I don't want to short change Hurst and Bodine and Bond and all those guys.   They're good football players. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT