ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 5, 2011
Al Golden
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






		  
		   COACH GOLDEN: Clearly a great opportunity for our football program and our football team to go into Blacksburg this week and take on Virginia Tech. Clearly they have set the standard since joining the ACC and the benchmark. 
 It's a pivotal contest for both teams given that we're 0-1 in the conference, so really a great opportunity for us.

 Q. I asked Frank Beamer earlier about Lamar Miller, because this game features the two top running backs in the ACC. Let me ask you about David Wilson what problems he presents and what makes him such an effective running back? 
 COACH GOLDEN: Any time the running back is big enough and strong enough to be both an insider and is equipped with the speed to be a perimeter and the elusivity to be that kind of person on the perimeter, that creates a really complete running back and someone that's tough to deal with. 
 David's strong, a physical runner, can knock the piles back inside and get positive yards. He can also beat you with his speed and lateral quickness on the perimeter. 
 He does improvise in a positive way. He does improvise and make explosive plays, so clearly he has great vision. And can see the field.

 Q. Does he scare you more as a running back or as a kick returner? 
 COACH GOLDEN: For me, he's just an explosive player. As you go down the roster, he's a guy no matter what he's doing, he's a guy that has to be accounted for. But certainly as a running back, he has more opportunity to control the game and the tempo of the game, so that is something that we're focused on right now.

 Q. Coach, I wanted to ask you about Jacory Harris. Obviously at times last year he was great, and at times he throughout interceptions. What have you seen from him this year, this being your first year? Has he surprised you at all? Did you have any preconceived notions that he's thrown out the window with how he's performed this year? 
 COACH GOLDEN: No, I've thrown everything just since my relationship started with him ten months ago. I threw everything else out. If we just go by what he has done in the games that he's performed in so far. He's 70% completion percentage, he's six touchdowns and three interceptions. He's number one in the ACC in red zone offense and red zone efficiency. He's fourth in the ACC in pass efficiency. He's only given up two sacks in three games, and he's over 50% on third down. 
 Again, we're talking about a guy who just passed Christian Ponder for all time ACC touchdown list, and now he's tied with Ryan, so I think he's in pretty good company. 
 He's a young man that provides us with the leadership, and line of scrimmage protocol that we need. So I've been pleased with him, and I'm anxious for the opportunity he has on Saturday.

 Q. What did you make of Virginia Tech's offense? They struggled against Clemson on the scoreboard but they were able to run the ball. What did you make of their offense? What is your biggest concern going into this game defensively? 
 COACH GOLDEN: Well, number one, you've got to stop the run, so that is the first thing that jumps out. Again, I'm really impressed with their offensive line. I think they're big, they're rugged, clearly got some veterans there. 
 The Drager kid at tight end, 33, I think he does a great job both at the line of scrimmage and as a move guy. We're expecting maybe perhaps to see more runs from Thomas. So, again, if it's Thomas and Wilson, and then clearly Oglesby comes in too. 
 But we've got to make sure we tackle those guys well, contain them, and don't give up any of the X plays on the perimeter. Those are the issues, and I'm sure Coach Beamer would say after watching the tape that they move the ball very well, ran the ball very well, but kind of shot themselves in the foot in a couple of different areas. That's something that we're trying to fix on this side of the ball. 
 Certainly, if you're asking me to look at their offense against Clemson, I'm sure that's what they're saying as a staff and as a team that we eliminate some of those mistakes and we're going to be in business.

 Q. What do you attribute the struggles on the run defense to specifically? 
 COACH GOLDEN: Do you want me to give it away, Heather? Do you want me to flat out tell you? 

 Q. Yeah, I'll put it on the internet real quick. 
 COACH GOLDEN: No, number one, we need to tackle better. So really three things. Okay, Heather, number one, we have to tackle better. Okay. Number two, we need to force and contain the ball better on the second level. Whether that's linebackers or safeties or corners, we have to fit it accordingly and appropriately. Because if you don't do that, you lose force on the ball, and the ball gets to the perimeter or turns into a big run quickly. 
 Then the third thing is continuity and unity, to be honest with you. We all have to be on the same page, and in the same gap. There are too many plays where nine or ten guys are doing everything right, and one guy's not where he needs to be. 
 When you play good competition, that's where there's a breakdown in the defense. So I would say those are the three things without getting into too much detail.

 Q. Have you seen progress towards that end? 
 COACH GOLDEN: Oh, I don't see consistency yet, but I do think we see progress. Again, I'm hoping a lot of the consistency will come with continuity. With just having the same lineup for two weeks in a row. We haven't had that. 
 That's going to be critical here that we settle in with our lineup and develop some continuity and consistency. And clearly we've got to get this going by Saturday at 3:30, given Virginia Tech's rushing offense. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT