ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 7, 2011
Al Golden
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


   AL GOLDEN: Well, clearly we were disappointed in our opening game performance against Maryland. We spent the better part of the last day and a half just reviewing it and just got done meeting with the kids and trying to move forward and correct the mistakes that we made in the game. We have three days here that we're going to try to improve our team, and then we'll get ready for Ohio State coming into Sun Life Stadium.

 Q. You got a nice effort at running back from Lamar Miller. Just wondered how you assessed that aspect of your offense. 
 AL GOLDEN: Well, again, if we had stayed on schedule a little bit more and didn't have ten penalties on offense, he would have gotten more touches and we would have been able to stay with the ground game. We were left with too many 2nd and long and 3rd and long and had to abort some running plays that we had in mind because we got off schedule. 
 Certainly the penalties hindered not just our scoring output but hindered our running output, as well. 

 Q. With the guys who are eligible to rejoin the team this week, do they just move back into practice the way they were going during preseason camp? 
 AL GOLDEN: Again, each player is on an individual basis, so each player it's just a function of wherever they were at before this, and then also a function of how the players that played in their place played. But some got their hands full in terms of a competition, and others will rejoin the starting lineup. Much of that will be determined here in the next couple days. 

 Q. And of those guys who had opportunities, in that regard, did anybody stand out to you? 
 AL GOLDEN: Of the guys that had opportunities? 

 Q. Yes. 
 AL GOLDEN: Yeah, well, I think Streeter obviously -- Streeter and Hurns did a great job at wide receiver. I thought they were much improved, and it didn't look like the game was too big for them. Certainly, I think, on defense, Chickillo did a nice job in the plays that he was in, which was critical for us. There were other guys, but those are probably the guys that jump out the most. 

 Q. What's the mood of your team? What was it like when you came back after the loss, knowing there's a bye week and then Ohio State after that? How do you get in your team's head a little bit now?
 AL GOLDEN: Well, I mean, we've got a chance to just go back to just improving our team and just go back to the basics. I think they're usually disappointed, and again, you've got to give Maryland a lot of credit for the way they played and the way they executed, but from our standpoint, we had four turnovers, ten penalties, and we didn't get enough stops on defense on the 3rd downs. 
 In many instances we didn't take our training to the game. I think the guys are aware of that. I think it's something that we can focus on here the next three days. Clearly we played an inordinate amount of guys that were either playing their first college football or started their first college football game, and most of those guys were on defense. 
 On offense we have less -- there's less wiggle room there because we had more guys with experience playing, but clearly the penalties are something that we have to fix from the offensive standpoint.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT