RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
August 1, 2013
Camilla Lennarth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Congratulations, fantastic opening round.   Your first time at St. Andrews?
CAMILLA LENNARTH:   Yeah, first time at St. Andrews and first time at the British Open. 

Q.   How do you rate your performance?
CAMILLA LENNARTH:   I'm very satisfied, definitely.   I hit all the fairways and all the greens, and it went pretty smooth out there. 

Q.   What was the highlight of your round today? 
CAMILLA LENNARTH:   I actually think the highlight was‑‑ I made birdie on the first hole.   I felt like, okay, well, I'm at least going to make one birdie. 

Q.   So what was your mentality going out there? 
CAMILLA LENNARTH:   I've been very excited, ever since I qualified on Monday, I've been looking forward to this.   I'm just very happy I made it here.   No matter what happens out here, I'm just going to enjoy every moment and take it all in. 

Q.   Are you surprised you're tied for the lead?
CAMILLA LENNARTH:   Of course I'm surprised that I'm tied for the lead, but I know I can hit good golf shots.   It's just a matter of putting them all together at once, and I did today and I'm satisfied.

Q.   Did you have a local caddie or friend?
CAMILLA LENNARTH:   No, Markus, been on the bag since Holland.   So we have been doing pretty well, and I'm very happy that I have the same person on the bag all the time, because when I get nervous, he knows what to tell me and calm me down and when to talk and not, and he's learned my game pretty well.

Q.   Can you talk me through your birdies? 
CAMILLA LENNARTH:   The first one, I knocked them close, but not like‑‑ you know, they were in good birdie range.   But lately, last week in London, I started to putt well again.   So I just kind of carried that on to this week.
And putting well usually just kind of takes on a little pressure on the shots hitting into the green, because you feel like, okay, well, I'm rolling it well, and that makes you, you know, just kind of take your shoulders down a little bit and take a breather and you know you're going to have a shot at the hole at least. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT