NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 16, 2012
Montell Marion
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Montell Marion. 

Q.   Compare the two matches with him.   What did you learn?
MONTELL MARION:   Of first period, huge.   Can't let guys like that get a lead on you, start hanging.   I wasn't afraid to go down on him, but he rolled me out at Midlands.   I knew I needed to create more scramble and more motion on bottom. 
I took care of the first period, upped my pace second period.   I wanted to score during the duration of the match, didn't want to go in overtime.   But you win it how you can.   Better awareness, higher pace, better hand fighting, that's the difference. 

Q.   Can you talk about dragging him back to the center of the mat that third period. 
MONTELL MARION:   I remember a period in Midlands where I had him by the ankle on the edge of the mat.   We were taught to bring him back to the center the mat.   I didn't do that at Midlands, I did that here.   That was huge for me. 
Staying disciplined, staying smart, you want to be aware and not get ahead of yourself, finishing the takedown, getting your points. 

Q.   Can you describe how hard you had to work to get the takedown there. 
MONTELL MARION:   You got to try and get your offense opened up in the center.   When guys are playing the edge, sometimes guys don't wrestle to the edge.   I want to be a guy that continues to wrestle to the edge.   He was kind of playing the edge a little bit. 
But it's all about bringing them back to the center.   There's always going to be obstacles.   I view it as pretty much working the room.   I don't see any edges.   I wrestle through them. 

Q.   Talk a little bit about your journey from Iowa two years ago, NCAA finalist, then coming here last year, not doing what you wanted to do. 
MONTELL MARION:   I try not so much to think about the past, you know.   There's some things that happened last year where, you know, there was a lot of regret.   My first year in the finals, a lot of regret. 
Like I've been saying through this tournament, it's not about necessarily correcting those things from the past, but basically going out there and proving this year I'm the best.   That's what I plan on doing tomorrow, righting some wrongs.   That's just part of the journey. 

Q.   You got one more match tomorrow night.   Does it feel like it could be kind of a fairytale ending for your career if you were able to bring it home?
MONTELL MARION:   Oh, for sure.   Man, you know, I dreamt for a while being a national champion.   I've come so close.   If I cap this off tomorrow with a national championship, that would be a perfect ending.   I'd do it all for my family, my friends, people there in my corner. 

Q.   You talked about what you did to beat Maple.   Is it almost identical with Russell?
MONTELL MARION:   When it comes to Russell, different kind of wrestle.   Maple is more of a counter style wrestler, counter offense.   Russell is a scrambler, he's talented.   Got to go out there and put a hammer on him, protect my legs, getting my tie, getting my score.   The mantra:   get your tie, get your legs, get your score. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, good luck tomorrow. 
MONTELL MARION:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT