MONSTER ENERGY NASCAR CUP SERIES: COCA-COLA 600
May 26, 2019
Kyle Busch
Joey Logano
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Five solid hours of racing, and Joey Logano never gave up, kept it exciting to the very end. How did you guys overcome the issues with the car early just to have a plan and and attack at the end?  
JOEY LOGANO: Yeah, never‑quit attitude from the team here. It's a good job from them. I don't know, we just got thrown for a loop there the first few laps of this race, first two, three stages, just boy, we were junk. And the guys did a good job adjusting on it and got it to where we were competitive at least. I don't know ‑‑ we weren't fast enough to win, but circumstances could have played in the right way and maybe we could have done it.   
Dangit, we had the run there on that last restart, and if he didn't clear right in front of me‑‑ I needed to get to his outside. If he was ever‑‑ if I got to the bottom of him, I was never going to clear him. He was just going to stay on my door, on my quarter, and I wasn't going to be able to get the job done. I needed to try to get to his outside there the last couple laps, and he knew the same thing, and he just washed up the racetrack.   
He did a good job defending the position, and I wish I could play it over one more time maybe, but overall if you told me we were going to finish second the first two stages, I would have taken it. But when you're this close, you really want to win. But man, the Coke 600 is a big one. You hate to miss it. But a big weekend, Memorial Day weekend. Just want to thank all of our military members that fight for our freedom.   
   
 Q. What a night for Kyle Busch and the 18; several incidents and almost recovered to put that car in position for a win. When you think back on this night, are there missed opportunities, or what did you feel like you were missing to put that car in Victory Lane?  
KYLE BUSCH: I don't know, I thought that through much of the race we had a fast car. We were there. We led some laps, we ran around. The 4 was fast, the 19 was fast. 19 was the fastest car, so I'm not sure what they had different than us, but obviously we were just off a little bit, otherwise I felt like we had a race‑winning car capable of at least running second, I guess, but overall the red, white and blue M&M's Camry was fast, and we brought it home where we should have, close anyways, I think. So if you guys want to support the USO, go get you some red, white and blue M&M's bags, made through August. We're going to donating money, proceeds all to the USO.  
   
 Q. Can you take away any trends from tonight when you think back on the 600 miles?  
KYLE BUSCH: Loose in the daylight and then still loose in the darkness, and finally we got it tightened up there, and for some reason with this package for me, it's like, it's either way too loose or it's too tight. I can't find a happy medium where I need to be and I can't make up time when I'm either too loose or too tight. I can run laps with those guys and obviously when you're backing it in the fence, that's a lot harder to control than pushing up to it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT