MONSTER ENERGY NASCAR CUP SERIES: FORD ECOBOOST 400
November 18, 2018
Joey Logano
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Joey, coming into this race, there were 32 NASCAR cup champions. Now there are 33. You are exactly what you've always dreamed and hoped to be, a Monster Energy champion.   
JOEY LOGANO: It's just a dream come true to even hear those words, along with my name. It's just crazy. I'm not a champion. These guys are champions with me. We're not doing it alone.   
Here comes the best race car I've ever driven right here. Look at that thing.  
   
 Q. Who's bringing it in for us?   
JOEY LOGANO: That's Dan Lynch. That's my interior guy, who does a great job. My whole team does an amazing job. Our pit crew is amazing.   
Man, I don't even know how to put this in words. God is so good. It's crazy what life can throw at you sometimes. You get the cautions at the right time and let this team do their job and let me do my job, and next thing you know, here we are, NASCAR champions. I don't even know what to say.  
   
 Q. You've been in this position before, and we've talked about this, and I know you've answered this question a lot, but you're a different driver, a different person in 2018 than you were in 2014, 2016. Part of the reason, your wife Brittany and this little guy, not even a year old.   
  Hudson came up on the stage, and we said, Daddy's a champion. What does it mean knowing that and looking into his eyes?   
JOEY LOGANO: It's past his bedtime now. It's incredible. You do change a lot as you grow up and having to grow up in front of a lot of people and witnessing a lot of my mistakes I made in the past, but every one of those mistakes has formed me into who I am today and led me to the people that you see on stage now who surrounds me. So just a crazy, crazy feeling right now.   
Everybody that's supported me along the way, everybody from Connecticut from the beginning, when I was driving go‑karts around my dad's garbage company and hitting dumpsters to where we are today, with all of our partners at Team Penske and so many people here today.   
It's an amazing night. I know what second felt like, and I know how much it stinks. I didn't know what winning felt like, but it feels really, really good.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT