MONSTER ENERGY NASCAR CUP SERIES: GANDER OUTDOORS 400
October 7, 2018
Joey Logano
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: We have now been joined by Joey Logano, driver of the No.22 PENNZOIL Ford. Tell us a little bit about that race and ultimately the end of it. It was kind of a crazy last 10 laps there. 
JOEY LOGANO: Yeah, it really was. Just a crazy finish. It seemed like a pretty controlled race for most of us. Everyone was clicking off a lot of laps. We were able to score some good stage points, a second and a fourth in the two stages, so I was proud of that. That helped us a lot in our situation for going into Talladega. 
And then you think about there at the end, caution comes out, you make a big call with two tires, gain a spot, and then cars staying out and getting to the end like that, you know it's going to be crazy. Obviously the crash right in front of me, had a good miss there, near miss, but it was a good miss, then as we headed to that last restart, I really thought Chase was a sitting duck. I didn't think he could win on those older tires, but I guess that red flag cooled him off enough to where he took off and got that clean air, and the 11 couldn't do anything with him, which was surprising. 
I was back there fighting the 20 trying to clear him. 
You know, proud of the points we scored today. It's a big deal, and wish we could have won, but overall I call it a successful day. 

Q. Joey, can you just talk about how these first four playoff races have been pretty crazy and how that's going to just set things up and the mindsets going forward? 
JOEY LOGANO: They get crazy at the end, that's for sure. It seems like everything is controlled, everyone is doing good, and then there's something that brings out a late caution, you know, and they've all been real cautions. They've just been timed out to where the end of the race, everyone sees that checkered flag and they know what it means to get themselves to the next round, and the 19 capitalized on that today. So congratulations to them. 
But yeah, that's the way these races go, and I can promise you, Talladega will look fairly similar. It will be definitely a grudge match to the finish either way, whether there's a caution or not. That's going to be quite the battle. We've got to go there and have a solid day, and then we'll be looking pretty good for Kansas. Just got to get through 'Dega, which is probably the biggest concern of the playoffs for everybody. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT