NASCAR CUP SERIES: XFINITY 500
November 1, 2020
Joey Logano
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: We're joined by our third‑place finisher and Championship 4 driver Joey Logano.   
We'll take questions right away for Joey.   
   
 Q. It's got to be really exciting for you, given you kicked off the Round of 8 with a win at Kansas, now going to Phoenix, a good track for you. How excited are you to battle for your second championship?  
JOEY LOGANO: Yeah, of course we're excited. We're ready to go. This is a great opportunity. We were able to lock ourselves in a couple weeks ago, be able to breathe for a minute, get through these last couple races. What a crazy race it was today for those guys trying to get their way in.   
Glad we were able to Keep some momentum up, get a good starting spot. I don't know where we're going to be for next week yet. Hopefully it's a good starting spot. We'll fire away and try to get our second championship.   
   
 Q. You mentioned at Charlotte you have the competition right where you want them, that you wouldn't be the most favorite title contender, but you're in it. How would you say it's been to have this finish for your team?  
JOEY LOGANO: You guys told me we weren't the favorites in 2018, so...   
We'll believe what we want to believe and we'll believe in ourselves first. I'll tell you again we're the favorites to win this thing. That's how it is in my mind. I said that a couple weeks ago, doesn't matter what anyone else thinks.   
   
 Q. Obviously your win at Texas denied Harvick that win, then Harvick gets knocked out. How big a deal is it to have Harvick out of the Final 4?  
JOEY LOGANO: That's surprising, that's for sure. Obviously we know what Kevin's record is at Phoenix. We all thought he's got as good a shot as everyone. He's strong there. Finished second right behind us there when we were there in the spring.   
Yeah, he's going to be fast. I said this before. The top four cars, the Championship 4 cars, are all going to be racing for the win. That's one thing I think we can be pretty certain of.   
   
 Q. Do you like the system? Obviously it helps you this year. Everybody has a chance.   
JOEY LOGANO: Yeah, I love it actually. I mean, it brings these crazy moments. I mean, I couldn't imagine what it was like watching the race tonight with every possible scenario getting thrown out there with the 9, the 19 in the lead, then you got guys racing for points behind them, trying to get every point they can. It's all within a point. Racing all way to the checkered flag like that, that's crazy. That's absolutely amazing.   
I believe the system is very fair. It's just like any other sport, right? In the NFL you can have an amazing regular season, lose the first time and you're out. That's just what Playoffs are.   
I'm glad we have it in our sport because it produces some amazing moments. There will be another amazing one next week when you have four cars going for it.   
   
 Q. Going into the last hundred laps or so, seemed like the Penske cars were the dominant group. What did you see from Chase over the last run that let him sneak up on you guys?  
JOEY LOGANO: Saw his back bumper too much (laughter). Seemed like whatever they did to their car the last run, that thing took off. He definitely was able to find some speed there last run, get out ahead of me, ahead of the 19. He just kind of kept going from there.   
They made some good adjustments, whatever they did.   
   
 Q. You were in a luxurious position with your win at Texas. What did you learn about your car and team over the next two events? What lessons can you take into the finale at Phoenix?  
JOEY LOGANO: Really the past two weeks the advantage we earned was to be able to focus on our Phoenix car before everybody. That's the advantage we had. We get to go to these races not having our tongues hanging out trying to get in. Our batteries are charged up and we're ready to go. That part is nice.   
I think we proved that our pit crew tonight is absolutely incredible. They kept us up front all day long. I don't think there was one pit stop I didn't gain at least one spot throughout it. Our pit crew is strong. They'll be ready to go when we get out there.   
I think we've proven our team is definitely the team to beat. We're well‑rounded. I think that's something that can help us next week.   
THE MODERATOR: Joey, thank you for taking the time to talk with us. Congratulations on the Championship 4 berth and we'll see you next week.   
JOEY LOGANO: Appreciate you guys. Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT