NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 12, 2016
Trey Lyles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TREY LYLES: I just fell in love with it when I started playing hockey.   
 Q.  Are you still following it?  
TREY LYLES: No, I watch highlights every now and then on ESPN, but follow it game by game.   
 Q.  Do you have a favorite team though?  
TREY LYLES: No, no, nothing like that.   
 Q.  Can you still skate?  
TREY LYLES: I don't know.  I don't think they make skates big enough.   
 Q.  Did you catch (indiscernible)?  
TREY LYLES: Yeah, I watch Kentucky games all the time.  I watch some of them on TV.  He's making a lot of noise.  He's making himself look really good.   
 Q.  Do you think they're picking on him?  
TREY LYLES: I don't know.  He picked on everybody last year, so we'll see.   
 Q.  When you talk to the guys, are they surprised that so much talent comes out of his country?  
TREY LYLES: I don't think they're surprised.  The last few years (indiscernible), but starting to get used to it now.   
 Q.  You're a big Kobe Bryant fan.  Were you Kobe Bryant when you were playing in the backyard as a kid?  
TREY LYLES: No, I was actually younger and I was bigger than everybody else, so my favorite player was Shaq.  So I played Shaq.   
 Q.  So now you're a Kobe-Shaq hybrid?  
TREY LYLES: Yeah, trying to be.  A young Shaq.   
 Q.  Have you had some good times with the guys here?  
TREY LYLES: Yeah, I caught up with Karl a little bit yesterday.  And it was good to see him.  It's not competitive, so it's just us kicking back and trying to enjoy the weekend.   
 Q.  Are you guys saying some day we're not going to be the Rising Stars?  
TREY LYLES: Oh, yeah, that's the goal for all of us.  We know we've got to wait our turn.   
 Q.  The opportunities that you've had have allowed you to show off your game.  How thankful are you for that and to get where you are now?  
TREY LYLES: I'm really thankful for it.  I was following that role, and I was able to go out there and show a little bit of what I could do.   
 Q.  Has it given you a chance to experiment with your game in ways you might not have otherwise?  
TREY LYLES: Yeah.  I guess it could be kind of bad to say, but (indiscernible).  I was just able to go out there and let loose and just play.   
 Q.  What does it mean to be part of this weekend?  It's an honor to be chosen to something like this.  Are you having fun yet?  
TREY LYLES: Yeah, I'm having a lot of fun.  This is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity.  It's good to be going to All-Star Weekend.   
 Q.  You have an interesting background with your Canadian roots and your American roots.  You'll be ready for both sides, I guess?  
TREY LYLES: Yeah.  That's the team I'm playing for, so.   
 Q.  Hold were you when you left?  
TREY LYLES: I was seven when I left Saskatchewan.   
 Q.  Do you feel like you represent Saskatchewan in some ways?  
TREY LYLES: Yeah, I think I do.  Although a lot of people don't know where it's at.  So it's something I look forward to (indiscernible).   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT