NBA DRAFT
June 25, 2015
Trey Lyles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  TREY LYLES:   My thoughts on the Jazz?   I'm just thankful to be drafted.   It's a dream come true.   I think for the Jazz I can come in and contribute right away.   They have a young team, so I think I'll be fitting in perfectly.   
   
 Q.   Trey, can you speak about what it means to be part of a night like this for yourself but also your teammates at Kentucky.   A historic night, you could have seven of you guys drafted.   What does it mean to have had a season like you've had and have it extended here on draft night?  
TREY LYLES:   It's great, being able to be a part of this with six other guys that we've been with, that I've been with for a year of my life, and that this is the ultimate dream of all of ours, and just being able to be a part of it with them is great.   Everybody believes in one another and we all know each other are going to be successful no matter what we do.  
   
 Q.   Was it a bit of a swing there back to back, you have the hometown Pacers pick right before you go, they pick somebody else, and then almost immediately, though, you get the high of being picked next?   Was there a little bit of a swing there?  
TREY LYLES:   Not at all.   Like I said previous days and months ago, I'm going to be thankful for wherever I go, and it just happens to be Utah, so I'm very thankful about that.  
   
 Q.   How much have you been to Utah?   What sort of impression do you have of that area?   
TREY LYLES:   I've been to Utah a few times for different camps, and of course working out with the team.   It's a very small town, but it's a nice town, and it's very close knit.   They support the team out there, so I'm thankful for that.  
   
 Q.   I realize that you're 6'10" but you're able to put the ball on the floor.   How is someone so tall so versatile and agile at the same time?  
TREY LYLES:   Just a lot of work, years of work practicing, being in the gym, not limiting myself to just one position and being able to do more than one thing.   I have to thank my father for that for working with me when I was young.   
   
 Q.   Going to Utah first, what do you know about that team in particular?   Where do you feel like you fit in?  
TREY LYLES:   I know it's a young team.   They just drafted Exum last year.   I know Alec Burks personally.   He was one of my coaches when I was younger for a camp that I went to.   And then Gordon Hayward being from Indianapolis, too.   I know it's a young team, and I feel like me going to that situation is perfect.   I'm a guy that can step in and help contribute immediately.   
   
 Q.   You and Devin went back to back.   Where were you in the arena and did you see him get drafted?   
TREY LYLES:   Yeah, I was doing an interview but I turned around and I saw him, and then once I got done with another one, he was sitting down where I was.   So I said congratulations to him.   So it was cool for both of us.  
   
 Q.   How did that strike you, four lottery picks from one team?  
TREY LYLES:   It just shows that our team was special.   It was unlike any other, and we've still got three other guys that are going to go tonight.   
   
 Q.   A lot was made of the platoon system.   This spring Kentucky missed out on a few top targets.   People said maybe that was part of it.   But how much does tonight prove that that system worked?  
TREY LYLES:   Four lottery picks.   That doesn't happen very often for one school, and we've still got three other guys, like I just said.   It just shows that if you go to a team and, you know, you have a platoon like we did, but you care about the team and not just yourself, you're going to be successful no matter what.   
   
 Q.   You mentioned to me yesterday that for obvious reasons you're not going to be involved with the national team, but for the future looking forward, what can we expect from this team and how much can you contribute?  
TREY LYLES:   As far as the national team?   
   
 Q.   Yes, sir.   
TREY LYLES:   Looking forward to it.   Hopefully they can qualify for the Olympics next year and be able to be a part of that team.   Everybody knows Canada is on the uprise of basketball.   You've seen the last two years No. 1 picks with Anthony and Andrew.   So it's definitely a team that's going to be able to compete for medals in the near future.  
   
 Q.   And what were your thoughts on Jamal Murray's most recent commitment?  
TREY LYLES:   It's great, another Canadian going to UK.   I'm sure he's going to do great there.   
   
 Q.   Have you met Dante Exum?   And if not, have you watched him or just thoughts about him?   And if you have met him, what kind of conversations have you had?  
TREY LYLES:   I haven't met him but I watched him play obviously in the Hoops Summit two years ago and then last season.   I know he's a good guard and he's on the uprise.   He's a young guy but he's learning a lot and he's going to be a great player.   
   
 Q.   The one thing about Salt Lake City is everything is a long plane flight.   What are your thoughts on that?   Did Gordon ever mention the wear and tear?  
TREY LYLES:   No, they haven't, but anywhere you go it's wear and tear.   You're traveling all over the country every another night, so it's no different there.   
   
 Q.   What do you think are the best values you can bring to the team right away?  
TREY LYLES:   Being able to contribute offensively and defensively, just being a guy that goes out there and if they need a bucket, I'll be able to be a guy that can go and get one, and just being a high‑character guy that's going to fit in.   
   
 Q.   With so many of your teammates going in the first round, what kind of competition do you guys have set up for the Rookie of the Year this year?  
TREY LYLES:   It's between us all, but we haven't talked about it, but it's in each of our minds.   We want to be the best that we can be.   It's going to be a challenge.   I'm sure we're going to talk about it in the near future.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT