MOUNTAIN WEST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 8, 2006
Sherry McCracklin
Regina Miller
Sheena Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 COACH REGINA MILLER:  I'm really proud of the lady Rebels this afternoon and the efforts we put on the floor.  Our goal was to really guard the three-point line.  New Mexico is an outstanding three-point shooting team.  We knew they would stretch our defense.  We wanted to try to take some chances with difficult on Marsh inside.  She certainly made some plays.  I'd rather give up a two contested over a three.  That's a little less. 
 I thought we did an excellent job overall of guarding the three-point line.  We made some plays down the stretch.  New Mexico made a run at us in the second half, took the lead by one.  I was hoping that was their run for the game 'cause we really stepped it up at that point.  Our defensive intensity really paid off.  We got some deflections and steals, were able to get out on the open court, finish the game. 

 Q.  Sheena, could you take a moment and talk about Faye Muller?  She had a couple huge rebounds, which both resulted in baskets. 
 SHEENA MOORE:  Faye is able to use her size with her height.  She's long and she's skinny.  She's able to use her height and weight to get around.  Most people who try to box her out, it's hard to make contact with her because she's light on her feet.  Got a couple rebounds, tipped it out, a couple important tips.  She was just solid for us today. 
 Q.  Sherry, they hit a three-pointer about five and a half minutes left, which gave them a two-point lead.  You didn't allow a field goal the rest of the way.  What was the difference, the key to your defense down the stretch? 
 SHERRY McCRACKLIN:  Well, when they hit that three, that personally was my man.  We went to a timeout.  My coach was like, "That's it for them, they're getting no more threes.  If anything, they need to earn it."  We took that to heart and just said, "If we lose this game, we're going to lose it on our own.  No threes, nothing easy."  We just took everything to heart and said, "We're not going to let them hit any more shots on us." 
 Q.  People on press row referred to this as an upset.  Do you think of it as an upset? 
 SHERRY McCRACKLIN:  Personally, I don't, even though they are a ranked team.  We just beat them last week.  We knew coming into this game, there was going to be a lot of intense (sic).  They're ballers, just like we're ballers.  They're players, just like we're players.  We don't look at them as rank teams or nothing like that.  We just look at them as another team we need to go out and beat.  That's why I don't consider this an upset. 
 SHEENA MOORE:  Technically, if you want to look at it from that standpoint, they're ranked above us.  It would be an upset from that standpoint. 
 But, of course, now we didn't look at it that way.  They're a team.  We just beat 'em, what, last week.  We knew we could beat 'em.  We just had to come out and play this game.  We knew that this tournament, everybody starts out with a clean slate.  It doesn't matter what you did before.  One loss and you're gone.  It doesn't really matter what record or what you were ranked before. 
 Q.  Sheena, because you guys did beat them so recently, did that give you either more confidence or some better ideas of what you could do against them coming into this game? 
 SHEENA MOORE:  Yeah.  Since we played them so recently, we knew exactly what to expect.  We had confidence going in since we had won the last game against them. 
 Yeah, we just came in with a lot of confidence and ready to play, ready to beat 'em. 

 Q.  About Faye, a lot of times players can make a presence on a stat sheet, sometimes they don't.  She finished with seven rebounds today.  What a performance she gave you at key times. 
 COACH REGINA MILLER:  I thought Faye came up huge at that point.  I went with her in the second half.  I didn't start her at the beginning of the game.  But I thought she was playing well enough that I needed to stick with her, and it paid off. 
 Faye is an outstanding rebounder.  She has a nose for the ball.  She does a nice job anticipating where the shot might come off.  She's probably our best overall rebounder, Sherry is probably our most aggressive rebounder. 
 It really helped us today. 

 COACH REGINA MILLER:  You're too easy on me. 

 COACH REGINA MILLER:  I'd like to make one last comment.  I know we talk about rankings and so on.  New Mexico is an outstanding program.  They have an outstanding team, an outstanding program. 
 For our program, it was a great win for us today because, as I said, they worked all year to get to the point that they're at.  Obviously they'll continue to play into post-season.  It's just a matter of their seeding. 
 Outstanding players.  I think Dionne Marsh is one of the top players in the west.  They have some of the best three-point shooters we've ever played against.  Again, this was a great win for our program.  Certainly it will give us confidence going into our game against Utah. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT