OKLAHOMA CITY THUNDER MEDIA CONFERENCE
April 25, 2019
Hamidou Diallo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How did surgery go?  
HAMIDOU DIALLO: It went great.   
 Q.  How did you hurt it?  
HAMIDOU DIALLO: It happened over time, just a loose particle in my elbow.   
 Q.  Will you be ready for Summer League?  
HAMIDOU DIALLO: Yeah, 100 percent.  I'll be ready very, very, very soon.   
 Q.  What are you doing right now?  
HAMIDOU DIALLO: Just rehabbing, getting treatment on it every day, and it's been going well.   
 Q.  Is that a weird experience for you to have to go through that -- have you had any surgeries like that --  
HAMIDOU DIALLO: No, that was my first surgery ever, so it was definitely weird.  But it was all right.   
 Q.  What's the focus, because you said you were going to be ready for Summer League, so you are going to be participating?  
HAMIDOU DIALLO: Yeah.   
 Q.  What's the main focus?  For instance, last year Terrance Ferguson's was ball handling.  Is there anything in particular that you feel you need to work on?  
HAMIDOU DIALLO: Just going out there defending the best player every night and showing that I'm capable to do that at a high level, and just showing what I've been working on for the summer, and that's -- if it's ball handling, shooting, I'm going to work on everything in the summer, so just display a full evaluation of where I'm at I would say after all of the work that I put in in the summer.   
 Q.  Do you expect to be here most of the summer or take some time to go home?  Where do you feel like you'll find some opportunities to really compete and kind of get after it?  
HAMIDOU DIALLO: Yeah, I'll be here for most of the summer.   
 Q.  What's been the biggest adjustment you've had to make to being a professional basketball player?  
HAMIDOU DIALLO: I would say it wasn't really -- no real adjustment for me to make.  I would say it was a lot of things that I learned, but no real adjustment.  I feel like I adjusted well, and it was a smooth transition for me.   
 Q.  You've obviously been a huge part of teams from when you were a kid until through college.  What was the adjustment like when your minutes were decreased?  
HAMIDOU DIALLO: It was tough.  I mean, I'm a competitor, so of course I wanted to compete.  But in this league you've got to be ready for anything at any given time, and sometimes you face adversity, but you still have to learn how to fight through and learn how to push through, and that's what I did for most of the year, and I was fine, pretty much, for most of the year.   
 Q.  Has it hit you that you won the slam dunk contest?  
HAMIDOU DIALLO: Yeah.  It was a fun experience.  I mean, I'm pretty -- I really don't even think about it that much no more.  But it was fun while it lasted.   
 Q.  Early in the season this team kind of really established that defense-to-offense identity, being in passing lanes, being disruptive.  You were a pretty big part of that.  What do you feel like this team can do going into next season to kind of recapture that identity that at times maybe slipped a little bit during the season?  
HAMIDOU DIALLO: I would say just make it another focus point, which we probably will, and we're a team that relies on defense, so it's something that we're going to focus on probably, and just come back stronger and just come back ready to compete and come back with a chip on our shoulder.   
 Q.  Knowing you said you wanted to do Hami Day this time around bigger and better, have you started planning for that?  
HAMIDOU DIALLO: Yeah, I started planning for it a little bit.  Not too much because the season just ended, but we'll start planning here in a couple weeks and try to get things situated for that event in July.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT