BOSTON COLLEGE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
December 18, 2017
Isaac Yiadom
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Ike, I'm doing a story about you winning the McGillis Award.  Could you talk about your reaction when you learned you had received that honor?
ISAAC YIADOM: Yeah, I was pretty excited because the people before me that got the award like Justin and John, they've just all been great players.  That award means so much at BC as a senior defensive back because if you get that award that just means you've fulfilled all the characteristics it means to be a great player and great teammate on and off the field at BC.  So I was just honored and excited.
Q. Worcester's only about 50 miles from here, but it seems in terms of football it's a long ways from there to here.  Could you talk a little bit about that adjustment and development and what you've had to go through the last four years?
ISAAC YIADOM: Yeah, for sure.  Four years ago I came to campus.  I loved BC for sure, so I started my career here.  High school football in Massachusetts was a lot different from where everybody else comes from in Georgia and Florida.  But it wasn't that hard for me to adjust to it, but I've grown so much as a player at BC.  So I mean it's really set me up for the next level, hopefully.
Q. Can you talk about their receivers, Ike?  I'm looking at these numbers and they're pretty fantastic.  Six receivers with over 20 catches.  How do you protect against that?
ISAAC YIADOM: Yeah, they've got some pretty good receivers.  We've been watching tape on them like we do every week against all of our opponents.  But at the same time we play great receivers every week in the ACC.  So everything we do throughout the season is what we're going to do against them.  Just practice and study them and go out there and execute.
Q. What were your impressions from Nate Stanley from what you've seen on film?
ISAAC YIADOM: Sorry, who?
Q. The quarterback.
ISAAC YIADOM: Yeah, he's good.  He has a good ball, a great deep ball.  He stays in the pocket really poised.  He makes good decisions.  So we've just got to get him, pressure him, and make sure we just make more plays on the ball than their receivers do.
Q. So now you're playing December football and January football?
ISAAC YIADOM: That's right.  Yeah, I'm excited about that.
Q. Do you feel like it will be a chance for you to audition your skills and move on since you've see John Johnson and Justin move on?
ISAAC YIADOM: Yeah, I'm excited about that.  It just gives me another chance to show a lot of people who I am and how good I can play.  So I'm just excited to go out there and attack every day and let them see what I've got to do.
Q. How much has it helped that you guys have played top receivers in the ACC, that when you go up against this team it doesn't faze you as much?
ISAAC YIADOM: Yeah, like I said, we go against good receivers every single week in the ACC, so we know what's coming for us.  We don't stress about it.  We just know we're a good defensive back unit and we can cover anybody.  So it's nothing we stress about.  It's just we're playing this receiver, let's go out and do our job because that's what we're on scholarship to do.
Q. Do you allow yourself to say I'm going to be in Yankee Stadium or do you just say you know what, I'm going to get through this day because I'm a Boston guy and not have to worry about it.
ISAAC YIADOM: What do you mean?
Q. Being a Red Sox fan.
ISAAC YIADOM: Yeah, I mean, I'm not really a Red Sox fan or a Yankees fan.  I'm not really into baseball.  I haven't been to one baseball game in my life.  But at the same time I played in Yankee Stadium one time my freshman year.  It's a great place to play.  Anytime we play at Fenway or Yankee Stadium, the feeling of being on a baseball field is different.  It's a great feeling.  I'm definitely excited to play there, and it just makes everything way better.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT