NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: MIGHTY DUCKS v DEVILS
June 8, 2003
Rob Niedermayer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  (Inaudible)?

ROB NIEDERMAYER: It was a very big emotional lift for us.  I think when the hit happened, everybody thought we wouldn't be seeing Paul for that game or maybe not the next game, and I think when he came back onto the bench, it was a big lift.  When he played the way he came back, he scored a big goal for us.  It was a great lift for us.

Q.  What do you have to do to win tomorrow to get that first road win in the series?

ROB NIEDERMAYER: I think we have to come out like we did in Game 5 and the same way as we came out in Game 6.  I think in Game 6, we sustained it for the whole game, and I think in Game 5, we came out strong for the first 15 minutes or so.  We didn't stick to our game plan too well.  We've just got to try to sustain it for 60 minutes.

Q.  (Inaudible)?

ROB NIEDERMAYER: Well, I think it depends on who wins or loses.  I mean, the playoffs are a very emotionally draining journey when you go through it.  We both fought very hard to get to this point.  It's something that we're both dreaming of winning the Stanley Cup.

Q.  (Inaudible)?

ROB NIEDERMAYER: No, I think that was such a big thing that Paul did and come back from such a hit like that, and play well, and it was a very big emotional lift for us.  I think it does carryover a little bit to Game  7.  I think everybody is feeling confident out there, and that's what we need heading into Game  7.

Q.  There is so many players that never get this opportunity.  What does this opportunity mean to you?

ROB NIEDERMAYER: It means a great deal.  I've been dreaming my whole life of winning the Stanley Cup.  You pretend you're playing in Game  7 on the Pond when you're growing up as a kid.  This is a position that you look to get to throughout the career. 

Q.  Rob, did you know that Paul had that in him?

ROB NIEDERMAYER: I mean, Paul's a very competitive guy.  The reason he's captain, he's shown it throughout his whole career.  He competes hard, he gets in the corners all the time.  He's a big reason why we're here, and why he is the captain.

Q.  You mentioned there would be some carryover from that hit into Game  7.  Pat Burns said there might be hatred between these two teams?

ROB NIEDERMAYER: You never like to see one of your own teammates go down like that.  Game  7 is Game  7, and I think everybody is going to be up no matter what.  Both teams are going to be trying to win the Stanley Cup.  It doesn't get any bigger than that.

Q.  Rob, with the last two games being such a departure from the first four, what kind of game do you expect tomorrow night?

ROB NIEDERMAYER: I think both teams will be  -- play probably a bit more conservative game.  There was a lot of chances in Game 5 and Game 6.  I think both teams will tighten up.

Q.  (Inaudible)?

ROB NIEDERMAYER: Well, I think our team isn't a big screaming and yelling team as far as that goes.  We have a bunch of leaders in that dressing room.  I think a lot of them lead by example, and when something needs to be said, it's been a different guy all the time that's stepped up and said it.  I think you're going to see a lot of guys step up in Game  7.

Q.  (Inaudible)?

ROB NIEDERMAYER: Well, I think honestly it's something that you have to have that belief that you have a chance of making it to the Finals and winning the Stanley Cup.  You wouldn't be playing if you didn't.  I think that's what made us so dangerous in the playoffs is we had every guy in that dressing room believing it.  I think throughout every series we played, we were the underdog.  I think if we would have listened to you guys, we wouldn't have passed that round.  We still have the same belief, and that's a big reason that's carrying us over here. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT