NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: MIGHTY DUCKS v DEVILS
May 26, 2003
Rob Niedermayer
Petr Sykora
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Petr, how long did it take for you to feel like you fit in?  You spent so much time here and you go over there in the trade.  How long do you think it took for you to actually feel like this was home?

PETR SYKORA:  Well, you know, I think it took us 30, 40 games to get used to each other.  It's a little different system than I was used to playing here in Jersey.  I had to get used to playing with other players.  It was my first trade and first change.  I really got used to the guys very quick.  It was easier than I thought it was going to be.  Especially the second half, the team was doing great, and I was playing better too.  It did take me some time.

Q.  What's the "new style," Mike's coaching style?  Can you boil it down for us?

PETR SYKORA:  It's more up-and-down hockey.  Pretty much we always go up and down, kind of up the wall.  It was kind of a little different, but I got used to it very quick.  

Q.  Rob, you've played against your brother many times, but on the big stage, not before.  What are your thoughts of going up against Scott in the Stanley Cup final?

ROB NIEDERMAYER:  I think it's going to be pretty special.  I think it's going to be tough at the same time too.  I think we both realize that we both have a job to do, but I think after it's over, it's something we'll look back on.  It's going to be pretty special.

Q.  Petr, two questions:  One, are you getting a little bit of a special feeling being back here now and being on this stage, or is it all business-like for you?  And the other one is, are you still pretty close with Patty Elias and do you still talk to him also?

PETR SYKORA:  I'm still very close to Patrick.  We still talk.  When I look at the highlights, I always look at if Patty scored.  You know, it was kind of a tough season for him too.  I was following how many goals and what he was doing out there, and, you know, it was like for me getting used to new players, he was playing with other players too.  It was kind of a new experience for him too.  We keep in touch.  We probably talk with each other once a week.  Not really during the playoffs, it's a different time, but during the regular season we talk quite a bit.

Q.  Any special feeling coming back here playing in this building against the team you used to play with.  Now, you're the opponent here.  Is it a weird feeling, a special feeling being back here?

PETR SYKORA:  When you get traded, you always want to make sure that the team you get traded to, you do well.  I'm proud of my team, that they made it to the finals.  It feels very special to play against the team you got traded from.  It's a weird feeling.  If anybody told me before the season started we're going to be sitting here right now, I wouldn't believe him.  We earned a way to get here.  I think we played great.  It's not a fluke for us to be here.  We earned it.  It feels weird, but I'm going to just focus and play my game.  That's it.

Q.  Rob, can you talk about the last two years of your career, and also, to kind of back up, do you think you've kind of revived your career over, say, the last four or five months?

ROB NIEDERMAYER:  Yeah, I think, you know, once I got traded from Florida, I think I had I tough time adjusting at first in Calgary.  It was tough for me, but once Darryl took over, that was kind of the start of it.  I think I was playing a lot more and the confidence was starting to come back again.  I think that's where it all started.

Q.  Rob, you went to the Stanley Cup Finals as a very young player in 1996.  What did you gain from that experience, and how will that experience help you this year?

ROB NIEDERMAYER:  I think that was about my third year in the league when that happened, and I think at the time I didn't realize how special it was.  It was something I was young, and I thought this was going to happen, you know, every couple of years.  I think now I have been in the league ten years, and I know how tough it is to get here, and you want to take advantage of it when you get here.  I think just being in the finals, my first time, I think I just take that, just how much hard work it takes to get here.

Q.  Rob, can you go into the Calgary situation a little bit more.  Obviously, they didn't see this in you.  To what extent do you have satisfaction that you're in the Stanley Cup final?

ROB NIEDERMAYER:  Well, I don't really look at it like that.  It was something, you know, just another team wanted me more, and I was getting an opportunity in Anaheim to play in the playoffs again, and I think any hockey player will tell you that that's the best time to play.  I mean the playoffs are a lot of fun and this round has been very exciting.

Q.  Rob, I know you were already asked about playing against your brother, Scott, and the divide it may cause in your family.  Your mother's already been quoted as saying, "Scott's won two; give it to you."  Do you give him a call and say, "See, mom likes me best"?

ROB NIEDERMAYER:  I think both my parents are going to be in a tough situation.  It's nice to have mom behind you for sure.  I think it's special.  It kind of hard for them.  I know they have put a lot of hard work and time into our careers.  I think they're going to really enjoy it.

Q.  How much of the fact that Mike Babcock has such up-tempo practices is that going to help you because you were off the ice for so many days?

ROB NIEDERMAYER:  I think I was more tired after a couple of his practices I think than some of the games.  He was really putting us through our paces.  I think as far as being rusty or anything, I don't think that's going to be the case.  We all feel very ready, and, you know, being off for 11 days I don't think is going to hurt us at all.

PETR SYKORA:  Well, I think he said it all.  I think he really made sure we are going to play tomorrow.  I think there is no excuse not being in shape.  We skate very hard and we are ready.

Q.  You went through a contentious arbitration here.  There were some things here that you didn't like at the time.  How do you feel about the Devils' organization now when you look back at your time here?

PETR SYKORA:  Obviously, I feel very lucky that I was playing here.  On this team, you get the chance to, you know, be on a great team every single year.  I got a very big chance to be in the Finals twice.  Once we beat Dallas and the second time we lost.  When I look back, I'm very happy.  I spent four great years playing with Jason and Patrik.  On this team, everything is about winning.  I think that's what they try to do in Anaheim.  It's working for us.  I think we play in a pretty similar system, and I think everybody wants to copy New Jersey Devils.  It's been working for us this system.  I feel lucky.  I was here for seven years, and I've got no bad memories at all.

Q.  Rob, I've heard a couple stories where you were home in the summertime with Scott, and he had the Stanley Cup there, and you were reluctant to touch it.  Can you tell us what that experience was like?

ROB NIEDERMAYER:  I guess it's a superstition.  You don't want to touch it until you've won it.  Scott has had the chance to win it twice.  I've followed both times very closely, and I see what it kind of takes through his hard work, you know, and I guess the elation after he won both times.  It's something that -- the Stanley Cup, I think it's one of the toughest things to win in sports.  When you get this opportunity, you certainly want to take advantage of it.

Q.  Rob, Bryan Murray always says about you that you're a guy if you're given a definitive role, that's something you thrive upon; you don't have to worry about scoring.  Would you say that's accurate?

ROB NIEDERMAYER:  Yeah, I think as soon as I got here, Mike sat down with me, and he really explained what he wanted from me, what he expected from me, and I think that's when my game is at my best, I think, when, you know, I am given that definitive role.

Q.  Petr, how surprised are you that the Devils, without you and without Holik, how surprised are you that they're here in the Finals?

PETR SYKORA:  Well, when I watch them playing on the TV, I'm not surprised at all.  You know, when you have Marty in the net, you always have a chance to win.  The defense are the same.  They've a lot of experience, so it's no surprise for me at all. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT