AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 26, 2007
Cara Black
Liezel Huber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  Took a little while.  You won the first set, but it was very tight in the first two sets.  Because you don't know them so well, did it take you a while to get used to their style of play? 
 LIEZEL HUBER:  No.  I would say because it's a final, that's why we were so tight.  I don't think it mattered who we were playing against.  Just the occasion was why we were so tight. 
 And by far, if you had seen any of our other matches, this was really the tightest that we had played.  It wasn't until we lost the second set that we kind of relaxed a little bit and we could feel the tension going. 

 Q.  So that was the key to it, relaxing? 
 CARA BLACK:  Yeah, I think so.  I think a lot of expectation was on us.  We're the No. 3 seeds.  Definitely we didn't really know what to expect from them.  They're young girls.  We watched a little bit of their match yesterday. 
 But still, you know, you never know playing them for the first time and all of that.  But I think that was the key.  We definitely -- it was tight in the first two sets, but lucky enough -- I should have served it out there at 6-5, but things didn't go our way. 
 But we regrouped and stuck together, and I think that was the major part of today. 

 Q.  What is their potential?  They're only a relatively new pair. 
 LIEZEL HUBER:  Well, our potential is to win every Grand Slam we're in.  We're the No. 1 team.  End of story.  That's all we want to do.  We want to be together as a team and fight hard.  Doesn't matter if it's ugly like it was today.  That's what we're here for. 
 If I'm playing for the next three years Cara is going to be my partner, and vice versa.  We're a team -- with our husbands we're a team, and this is our business.  We're very serious about it, and that's all we want to do. 

 Q.  What about the potential of these girls? 
 CARA BLACK:  I think it's a great start for them.  They do show a lot potential.  It'll be interesting to follow them. 

 Q.  Is it a matter of them playing a lot of tennis together? 
 CARA BLACK:  No.  I think it's just, yeah, experience, that, you know, on the tour, and I'm sure they've learned a lot from these two weeks.  I think they'll take a lot from it. 

 Q.  Do you think you can win the Grand Slam of doubles? 
 LIEZEL HUBER:  Oh, definitely.  We're going try our hardest.  If we don't it's because we did something.  But I think if we play the way we can and stick together as a team and support each other and try our hardest, then it's quite possible. 

 Q.  What would be the toughest of the tournaments for you to win, of the other Grand Slams? 
 LIEZEL HUBER:  We were in the final of the French in 2005, we won Wimbledon.  So this is hard court.  US Open is hard court.  For us, we play match by match.  At the end of the week we look back and and we won, it's great. 

 Q.  On the court how do you complement each other? 
 CARA BLACK:  I think, you know, Liezel is the par hitter out of us, and I'm maybe just the finesse, like at the net, moving around a lot and try to pick off from her big groundstrokes and her serves that she pars in there. 
 Yeah, so I think that's one of our biggest strengths.  The fact that we can mix it up.  Liezel can serve and volley or serve and stay back.  I think that's a big part of it. 

 Q.  The ideal combination. 
 CARA BLACK:  Yeah. 

 Q.  Cara, you're just married. 
 CARA BLACK:  Yeah, I just married an Aussie.  So, yeah, it's nice to have my mother-in-law and brother-in-law and sister-in-law here, all the family.  It was an awesome two weeks.  We're actually staying out with them in their house at Wonga Park.  It's been excellent, yeah. 

 Q.  It's a good wedding present, huh? 
 LIEZEL HUBER:  Yeah. 

 Q.  There was somebody in the audience yelling "Liezel" at ever opportunity.  Did you hear it? 
 CARA BLACK:  That was David. 

 Q.  It was a female actually. 
 LIEZEL HUBER:  That must be David's daughter, Rebecca.  We have been staying with them since we didn't have any money to pay for a hotel.  Now they're like our family and we stay there ten years and they don't know anything about tennis but now they know lots because they follow every single match. 

 Q.  How do you think your father would feel if he were still alive? 
 CARA BLACK:  He'd be really proud.  Yeah, he'd be sitting back there at home very happy. 

 Q.  He must have taught you guys to do things in a special way to get so good at doubles. 
 CARA BLACK:  Definitely.  He encouraged us to come to the net and be aggressive players and mix up our game a lot.  There was a certain drill that we used to do on the wall, like fast volley drill, try and hit a hundred volleys as quick as we can and he would time us. 
 I think that's definitely helped all our reflexes.  Yeah, I would say that was like the biggest drill that's helped us. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT