WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 24, 2021
Harris English
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. How would you assess the match today?
 HARRIS ENGLISH:   Yeah, it's always weird playing a fellow Georgia Bulldog, a fellow good friend out here on TOUR.  We had a good time.  We pressed each other, I know we both didn't have our best stuff, I'm used to seeing him make a lot of putts, chip in a couple times, like I'm used to seeing him do that.  Kind of, luckily, he didn't do that today.  But it was fun.  It's always weird getting started in match play, we don't play a whole lot of this and kind of ease into the day and then turning to the back nine and it's a grind.  So I'm glad to get the W.
 Q. Does it help or hurt to know your opponent's game so well?
 HARRIS ENGLISH:   I mean, it helped me because I expect him to make a lot of putts and hole out a lot of chips.  Like anything really that he does I'm used to seeing from his college day, I mean he's done it for a long time.  His nickname was Grease T.  So I've seen that.  So even those putts coming down the last couple holes, like in my head I'm expecting him to make that, so it doesn't it -- I don't know, I just think he's going to do so well and make a lot of birdies, so it was a little bit of a pillow fight today, but it's always good to get that point.
 Q. Grease T?
 HARRIS ENGLISH:   Grease T.
 Q. What does that mean?
 HARRIS ENGLISH:   He's just a greasy game.  He's never out of the hole.  I mean, I knew coming into this B-Todd would be really tough, because he has such a good short game, he's a really good putter, so you're never going to be out of a hole.  Even if he misses a green, I mean, he can chip in.  I mean, he's got everything around the greens, so I feel like a guy like that is really tough to play in match play.
 Q. Did today feel any different than a normal event teeing off on a Thursday, where you kind of have the nerves right out of the gates as opposed to just playing a normal Thursday round?
 HARRIS ENGLISH:   It is, it is.  I mean usually, to me No. 1 on a Thursday, in a normal round, doesn't mean as much as one hole out here today starting off.  And every hole means a ton and can mean the match.  So you don't want to give an inch out here, you don't want to do something dumb.  I mean, instead of playing a 72-hole event, every shot, every hole means so much in a match like today.  I mean, coming down the stretch.  So it is different.  It's a different mindset.  I definitely don't get rattled as easily, because I know you got to stay in it, you got to think you can hole the next shot, think you can hole the next putt.  So I love match play, I've played this tournament two times before, playing NCAA at Stillwater, playing in the Walker Cup, I enjoy it.  I love the grind of it, I love trying to play one-on-one, beat your opponent, so it's a lot of fun to me.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT