THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 23, 2020
Harris English
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. The good news is, you beat everybody.   The bad news, one guy beat you by 11.  Just your thoughts on the week and playing with DJ and what he put up there, too?
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Obviously I'm really happy with the week I had.  I had a goal of 3-under per day out here, and I surpassed that.  Really happy with, really, all aspects of my game.  I played really well.
Years past, TPC Boston has not been a great track for me but I felt like I was coming in with really good form and I played really well.  Just Dustin played unbelievable golf.  It was solid ball-striking, putting, everything.  Shooting 30-under on a Playoff golf course like this is pretty incredible, and well deserved.
Q. Even more importantly, you locked in your spot at THE TOUR Championship with your finish.  Just your thoughts on being able to move on to East Lake, and now you're kind of playing for position rather than trying to get in.
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Yeah, it's huge.  I've been in that spot a lot of trying to get in THE TOUR Championship and only getting in once in my career.
So that was really the goal of working towards THE TOUR Championship all year long.  It feels really good to finally get back there.  Only an hour away from where I went to college.  Feel like I have good vibes there and I'm excited about getting there and having a realistic chance of winning the FedExCup.
Q. What do you take the most pride out of from this week?
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Just sticking to the game plan.  It's easy, especially with the scores so low.  I haven't been very good in the past of being patient, of letting the birdies come to me, and I felt like I did a good job today of getting off to a good start and making the putts when I needed to, and just kind of put it on cruise control.
The back nine played a little more difficult today, but feel like I stepped up when I needed to and I was obviously getting beat by Dustin by a good bit but kind of had my own tournament that I was playing.  I mean, really, the goal starting today wasn't necessarily to win.  It was to put myself in position to have a run in the FedExCup.  That's why we're all here.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT