THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 22, 2020
Harris English
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Two of your three bogeys today came on the closing three holes, but you had eight birdies, walking off the property feeling what, emotionally?
 HARRIS ENGLISH:   Yeah, feeling good.  Going in today, my goal score was 3-under and I had to change that a little bit after the rain delay when I was 4-under.  But felt good about it.  The wind was swirling a little bit, coming in and misread some wind directions, but overall, played my irons great.  Putted great.  Short game feels good.  So taking a lot of positives from today.  I'm in the hunt again and ready to come out tomorrow and see what happens.
 Q. You mentioned being in the hunt again.  Last fall, you had four top six finishes, putting yourself in the throes of competition on the closing nine.  That being said, as you try to win again for the first time in seven years, what attitude and mentality do you bring to the golf course tomorrow?
 HARRIS ENGLISH:   You've got to stay positive and you're going to have some up-and-downs in the round tomorrow.  Going to probably hit some poor shots, hit some poor putts, stay positive and know that you can come down the closing stretch and make a run of birdies.  So I've been feeling good about my game the last couple months, and I've definitely performed really well this week, and just looking forward to it.  It's exciting to be in that position again.  That's what I've been practicing for, preparing for, and just happy to be in the hunt again.
 Q. Looks like you're going to be in the final group.  How important is it to be playing with the guy you're chasing?
 HARRIS ENGLISH:   I haven't played in Dustin in a while.  Obviously he's playing some really good golf.  Feed off each other, make a run at it coming down the stretch.
 Q. Historically on this golf course, around 14- or 15-under par has been the winning score.  That's not going to get it done this week.  When a golf course is giving up this many birdies, is that something that helps you or something that you feel usually do better when it's a little bit more tough?
 HARRIS ENGLISH:   I do enjoy more of the U.S. Open-style of golf of around even par, a few under winning a tournament.  But you've got to adapt.  I could see this course getting firm and fast and playing really tough, as it was getting before the rain came in.  You've just got to adapt your game and stay positive.  Like I said, you're going through stretches where you don't make three, four, five birdies and you can't get down on yourself, feeling like you're getting the behind.
 So it's just stay within yourself, picking your spots where you're going to attack and stick with the game plan.
 Q. DJ just made a 40-footer for eagle, so the gap is five shots.  Does that alter your strategy at all?  Will you try to put pressure on, be more aggressive?
 HARRIS ENGLISH:   I wouldn't say it changes my strategy.  I've had a game plan the last three days that I have felt good about.  When I'm in a got spot on the par 5s, I'm going to go for it.  When I'm not in a good spot, I'm going to lay up.  Holes like No. 4 where I'm always going to go for it.  I'm not really basing way do off of what Dustin does.  Just got to play my game, try to make as many birdies as I can and see what happens.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT