THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 12, 2020
Harris English
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Fantastic start with a 65, and considering that the success has been limited here recently, what a great way to start this event, right?  
HARRIS ENGLISH: Yeah, I came in on some pretty good form this week. I know I haven't finished that well this week, but I know where to hit it out here, and it's all about execution. I feel like I executed well today. Obviously the golf course is pretty soft out there and really the most benign conditions I've played out here at Sawgrass. It's a course you could get this morning, and I'm happy with where I'm standing.   
 Q.  What was the point in the round where you felt like you could put something together today?  
HARRIS ENGLISH: Yeah, I birdied 11 and 12 and those are probably two of the easiest holes on the back nine, especially today, and got those, and felt like, hey, I can get through 16, 17, 18 rolling a little bit. Made birdie on 16, hit it in there close on 17, was a really good number. And the greens were just so receptive. You could hit it in the rough and get away with it and not be penalized so much. But had to play aggressive and get after it.   
 Q.  Your only bogey was at the 5th hole, but maybe that number could have been a little worse. It looked like you got a great break on the second shot that went left but ended up back in the fairway and you were able to make a 5 there.  
HARRIS ENGLISH: Yeah, that was a tough lie. I pulled the tee shot a little bit, but the ball was so far below my stance in the rough, I didn't really know exactly where to aim, so I tried to hit it at the flag and pulled it a little bit and got a good break. I don't know, that was a decent bogey, I guess. But you're going to get away with some stuff like that. It was nice to get some breaks out here. I'm happy with where my game is at, hit some really good shots today, and kept it under control from tee to green.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT