THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 12, 2020
Harris English
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  65 today. Super round of golf. The guys have been commenting about the ball striking of late, we know you've been playing great. Ball striking has been great, let's be honest. But 26 putts today. I'm going to show you one of the highlights. Just over over how well did everything matchup today?  
HARRIS ENGLISH: Yeah I've been playing really well and obviously I feel like I'm one of the best putters on the PGA TOUR, that's what I practice a lot. And a hole like number 8 I'm just hitting a 3-iron trying to hit it in the middle of the green and when you make putts like that it make it's so much easier out here. 30-footer, I'm stealing one on number 8.   
 Q.  Overall the last few years not gone your way at Sawgrass, some of your statistics as we compare the last few years to today. We know that a lot is how well you do ball striking, but today the putter was hot. Why do you feel like you haven't quite had the numbers you would have liked the past few years?  
HARRIS ENGLISH: I think you see the greens in regulation stat, I think that's huge out here. A course like Sawgrass is one of the tougher ones we play all year tee to green and if you're not hitting it well it's going to be tough to get around this place. And I feel like I found form, started well this fall and kept it going this spring. And I feel like I think I missed maybe three greens today and one was on the chip shot on No. 9. So when you're putting for birdies out here you're going to have a low score. So happy where the game's at. I mean, I like playing this golf course, I think it really suits my game, obviously it hasn't the past few years, but I feel like when I'm playing the game I know how to play and playing well then I like it.   
 Q.  It was fun to watch today. Got to just ask you, obviously the recent views, getting all the players' perspective. This is your ninth PLAYERS start. Specifically, no fans the next few days, but specifically the atmosphere around 16, 17, obviously the much talked about par-3. What is that going to feel like?  
HARRIS ENGLISH: Yeah, I've never done it before. I think I played one PGA TOUR event at Congressional maybe 2012 or 2013 where we didn't have fans on the weekend, big storm came through. So it's going to be weird here. Coming down the stretch, 16, 17, 18, like you said, the fans play such a big part of the atmosphere there and it's one of the best atmospheres in golf, so it's going to be very, very strange and only having a few people cheering or your playing partners, it's going to be different. But hopefully it will still be really good TV out there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT