ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 6, 2020
Harris English
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Back-to-back rounds under par here at Bay Hill. Harris, how would you describe the conditions early on a Friday morning?
HARRIS ENGLISH: Yeah, it was tough. Usually when you tee off at 6:45 it's pretty calm conditions, but it was blowing from the 10th hole today. It was tough. They had some really good pins out there. The par-3s are playing tough. Ripping 4-iron, 3-iron into some of those holes. So I'm happy shooting 2-under. The course is still playing tough out there. The rough's up. It's nasty. I'm happy to be 5-under par right now and looking forward to the weekend.
Q. We were just talking about you playing out of the 126 through 150 category. What has that been like for you trying to cobble together a schedule to get back out here full time?
HARRIS ENGLISH: Yeah, just knowing the tournaments I'm in I'm going to give it all I have. And to be rested for the tournaments I get in. I think that's the biggest takeaway I can have from it. The biggest positive, I guess, is I'm not going to be in as many tournaments as I was last year, but I'll be a hundred percent rested and ready to go.
Q. How much does that motivate you when you want to be back out here as a two-time PGA TOUR winner?
HARRIS ENGLISH: Yeah, it motivates me a lot. I had a really good off season, kind of kicked to the gut a little bit of not getting my card last year. But it's been good. I got off to a good start in the fall and I feel like there's still a lot more golf to play, a lot better golf to play and I'm looking forward to the challenge.
Q. Just talk about your second round out there today, 5-under 67. You're in good shape going into the weekend.
HARRIS ENGLISH: Yeah, I'm happy with it. Windy again today. It's playing tough. Got off to a good start. Birdied 11, which is a tough pin, had a really good number there and then hit it to probably 5 feet, made birdie. That's kind of like stealing one out here. But just played solid. Made some really good putts when I missed the green. Played the par-5s really well and that's what you got to do out here and played them 3-under today so I'm really happy with that and had everything going. I don't think I hit it quite as well as I did yesterday, but I still left myself in really good spots and that's what you got to do around here.
Q. Talk a little bit about your season so far. Playing out of the category of 126 to 150 and the difficulties that that provide you, and you've started the season particularly well.
HARRIS ENGLISH: Yeah, I mean, it kind of sucked not keeping my card last year, but kind of regrouped, had a really good off-season and played the fall really well, which really set me up for moving up in that category and getting into some more tournaments. It's kind of strange being in some of the bigger tournaments on the PGA TOUR schedule, like Bay Hill, PLAYERS, possibly the PGA Championship, and then having to get, to work on some sponsor exemptions for regular events. So it's a weird spot to be in, but my team and I came up with a good plan and I'm going to, it's kind of a built-in weeks off and I'm going to be a hundred percent rested and not just chasing a lot of events when I'm not a hundred percent. So it's a good time to be at home some in Sea Island and really get my game ready and be ready to play.
Q. Finally, just some thoughts on Mr. Palmer and having hosted this event, you played it a number of times, any interactions that you had that were super memorable for you?
HARRIS ENGLISH: Yeah, yeah, this is my, I think ninth year playing in this event, which is incredible. It's one of the best ones on the schedule for me. Mr. Palmer, I mean, he's such a legend and such a great role model for us. I mean, I've played a lot of golf with Sam and, really, out West at Tradition. Sam and I would go play some and Arnold would take his golf cart and follow us some and we would have lunch or some drinks after the round. And he's just so easy to talk to. I mean, I feel bad for asking a lot of questions and getting an autograph, getting a picture, but he is so gracious in everything he did and just such a good role model for me and everybody on the PGA TOUR, too. This is the guy who put us in this position to be on TV and having all these sponsors and drawing a lot of the public into watching golf.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT