WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
January 30, 2020
Harris English
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Just comments on the round and how things worked for you out there.
HARRIS ENGLISH: Yeah, I played pretty solid. Hit a lot of greens today, I felt like my speed on my putting was spot on. Made a lot of clutch putts. And when I did get out of position I made some really good pars. And that will keep the momentum going. Birdieing the last two was awesome. Hit a really good 8-iron into 8 and then hit a good pitching wedge just behind the hole on 9 and then made them both for birdie. So pretty excited about where my game is.
Q. After a rough 2019 season, what has changed in the fall that has gotten the momentum that you've had throughout this season?
HARRIS ENGLISH: I started working with a new swing teacher, Justin Parsons, down at Sea Island. We started working probably April or May. And it took a little while to get my confidence back and to start hitting it like I know I can. And I made a lot of cuts last year and didn't really finish in the top-25 a whole lot. So I finished 25th to 45th, 50th a lot and you don't get a whole lots of FedExCup points. So I made it to a lot of weekends, just didn't really finish it off. And I was pretty happy with finishing a lot of those rounds, goods tournaments off in the fall and getting in contention and pretty close to winning a couple times and looking forward to getting back to that this week.
Q. Now that you have that confidence, how much does that sort of change your game on the course? Do you play a little differently?
HARRIS ENGLISH: It's not as much pressure like leading up to weeks of knowing I have to play well to keep my card or to make it into the top 125 of the FedExCup. So I think the preparation is a little different. And the mindset, I mean, I still know when to shoot for pins, when to play conservative and out here when the scores are pretty low you have the green light a lot more than most weeks.
Q. What's the crowd like here? How do you deal with the crowds here?
HARRIS ENGLISH: Yeah, it's a lot of fun. This is a very unique week for us, very much of a Super Bowl atmosphere in golf. It's great for golf. I love the fans here. They're out here to have a good time and whatever it brings to have a lot more people come watch golf is great for golf and I like it. And that stretch from 15 to 18 is pretty incredible. Your adrenaline gets going for sure and it's a lot of fun, you got to embrace it, for sure.
Q. You mentioned you got to embrace it, because if you don't embrace this, it's probably not the tournament for you?
HARRIS ENGLISH: Yeah, if you let it get under your skin it can bug you, but you got to put yourself in their shoes, like if I was at a football game I would be trying to have fun and enjoying myself and that's what these people are doing.
Q. So it's okay. It's just one week.
HARRIS ENGLISH: Yeah, one week out of the year is awesome and Waste Management does a good job, the Thunderbirds do a good job of keeping it under control. We had a police officer walking with us today so I felt very safe and they have it under control.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT