A MILITARY TRIBUTE AT THE GREENBRIER
September 15, 2019
Harris English
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Harris, excellent week for you. Just get some comments on getting the season kicked off in a good way.  
HARRIS ENGLISH: Yeah, feels good. I was lucky enough to get in this week based on my number from last year. I feel like I've been playing a lot of good golf lately. Just hadn't put it all together. Been making a lot of cuts; just hadn't played well on the weekend. Finally put it all together this week.   
Still made a couple mistakes on the weekend, but putted well, hit it good. Feel like my game is in a great spot right now.   
 Q.  Where do you think you need to improve?  
HARRIS ENGLISH: It's just the little things. I mean, a shot, half a shot a day is a big difference. It's just the little things out here, especially when you're getting in the hunt like this. Some tough pins; picking the right club is tough, and executing.   
It's just the little things. At this level anything can be something that can put you over the edge.   
 Q.  You mentioned the weekend. Talk about the final round as a whole. Got off to a good start.  
HARRIS ENGLISH: Yeah, I did. I putted really well all week. Made more 15- to 20-footers than I have pretty much all year. It was nice to do that.   
You didn't have to be so aggressive to some of these tucked pins. Because if you miss it in the wrong spot it's really difficult to get up and down for par.   
It was nice to have the putter going and I could play a little bit aggressive, but to the right side of the pin knowing that my putter was working.   
 Q.  What does a good finish here over the weekend and particularly this final round do for you going forward?  
HARRIS ENGLISH: Yeah, it's huge. I've been trending in the right direction the last probably month or two. Making a lot cut, just hadn't had a top finish like this. It feels good to get in contention and have a chance to really go low today and press Joaquin a little bit. Feels good.   
I got two events coming up, Jackson next week and the Napa the week after, so I'm going to use this to put me in the right direction.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT