U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP 2017
June 16, 2017
Harris English
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What kind of number do you think 4-under is halfway through?  
HARRIS ENGLISH: Yeah, I'm happy with it.  The course is getting tougher by the minute out there.  The greens are drying out.  I feel like they're getting them right where the USGA wants it.  They're firming up, they're getting faster, and even with not a whole lot of wind, it's still a tough golf course.   
 Q.  Is this one of those you're kind of happy to be in based on what could happen the rest of today?  
HARRIS ENGLISH: Yeah, for sure.  I feel like we got a good draw with it being a little softer yesterday, and then coming out this morning it was a little soft on our front nine, and definitely firmed up on our back nine.  So it was getting tougher, and I'm glad to be done.  Now I have the afternoon to hang out.   
 Q.  William McGirt was saying some of the spots are definitely more difficult today.  Did you share that and do you anticipate that continuing through the weekend?  
HARRIS ENGLISH: Yeah, for sure.  If you're on the wrong side of the hole, it's a difficult two-putt.  With them getting so much faster, those three- and four-footers are a lot tougher.  So it's fun out there.   
 Q.  How much do you feel the course turning?  
HARRIS ENGLISH: How much?   
 Q.  How much do you feel it turning as they're finishing?  
HARRIS ENGLISH: Yeah, those last couple holes, the greens were firming up.  The greens were getting faster.  It's starting to get Augusta-like around the greens.  That's how they want it to play.  They want par to be a good score, and this afternoon it will be.   
 Q.  So what does that mean for the weekend, do you think?  
HARRIS ENGLISH: Yeah, hopefully it will stay like this, no rain, and keep firming up and getting dry and fast.  I think that's how everybody wants to play.  That's where we will see this golf course (indiscernible).   
 Q.  Is it the way you would prefer it personally?  
HARRIS ENGLISH: Yeah, I think this is how this course is meant to be played, firm and fast.  Bring it on.   
 Q.  Could they lose it?  
HARRIS ENGLISH: I don't think so.  I think with what's happened in the past, they'll know what's right.   
 Q.  I know they know what's right, the question is can they lose it?  
HARRIS ENGLISH: I guess they didn't, like Rickie shooting 7-under yesterday, so they'll keep reeling it back closer to par.   
 Q.  Do you believe them, Harris, when they say they don't care what the winning score is?  
HARRIS ENGLISH: I don't know.  I mean, they want to make it a good test, and I feel like the U.S. Opens I've played have been a good test.  I haven't played in one that's been unfair.  This looks the same.  We'll see what they do on the weekend.  But the last thing is fine.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT