WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 7, 2016
Harris English
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A flash interview with:   
HARRIS ENGLISH   
 Q.  You got off to a quick start today.  Little bit of a bobble there on 16.  Talk about your round a little bit.  
HARRIS ENGLISH: Yeah, like you said, I got off to a great start.  Had a good start on 1 and kind of got things rolling, off to a good start and tried to put as much pressure as I could on the leaders.  Got the putter going a little bit.  Been putting good all week.   
Yeah, shooting 5-under on Sunday is always good.   
 Q.  16th hole, what did you hit?  What was the number?  Definitely you carried it a little farther.  
HARRIS ENGLISH: Yeah, I was a little jacked up on 16.  Amazing how short that hole played all week.  I had 172 to the hole, and that's usually a pretty good 8-iron.  I hit 9-iron, flushed it, got up in the wind a little bit and carried it off six paces further than I wanted to.   
Got good a break on 15, got unlucky on 16 per se.  Overall, I'm very happy with how I played and how I putted.   
 Q.  What do you take momentum-wise not just from the week but especially with your putter?  The numbers were a lot better than what you had this season.  
HARRIS ENGLISH: Yeah, I feel like I have been putting in good work all year on my putter.  Stuck to my game plan and kept to my drills this week and really worked on speed.  It really paid off.   
I felt as comfortable with the putter as I have all year.  It paid off down the stretch.   
 Q.  That putt on 18, did you think you'd made it?  Did you give it a good look there?  
HARRIS ENGLISH: Yeah, I hit it right where I wanted to.  I thought it was going to drip a little left, come down the hill, and it ended up going just a hair right.   
Yeah, I mean, all you want to do is give yourself chances and I felt like I did that all day.  I can take a lot of momentum from this tournament.  I'm playing well right now.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT