PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2015
Harris English
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How important was it to get a good start?
HARRIS ENGLISH: The wind was a little down on the front nine, so it was imperative to get off to a good start and get some birdies.  Back nine it started getting a little breezy out there and it got tough.  This golf course, if you're on, you can get it, but if you're a little off, it makes for a tough day.
Q. How is this golf course playing or how was it playing this morning?
HARRIS ENGLISH: They set it up really good today.  Some gettable pins, some pins you got to be careful of.  I guess they're a little afraid of the wind picking up this afternoon, which can get a little dicey out there.  But, it's a great golf course.  Really good test by Pete Dye and visually it's intimidating off the tee, but it gives you some pretty good room off the tee.  But it's one of the great ones we play.
Q. Talking about a lot of players who compete in Major Championships and other PGA TOUR events, they say the first round is the most critical round because that sets the tempo for the rest of the week.  What kind of tempo do you think you set out there today heading into tomorrow?
HARRIS ENGLISH: It sets me up to be patient out there.  That's what this golf course makes you do.  You have to be patient out here.  Setting up 4-under par for the first day, I can be patient tomorrow and not have to go get it.  I can let it come to me and make a lot of pars and maybe string in a couple birdies every now and then, so I'm excited about it, ready to get after it tomorrow.
Q. How do you felt your career has progressed since the 2011 amateur at Erin Hills?
HARRIS ENGLISH: It's had its ups and downs.  I've been on TOUR, this is my fourth year now, so it's been pretty much everything I've been every where I could think of.  Obviously I'm more experienced player, I feel like top to bottom I'm a better player.  But it's just learning each and every year trying to get better and better and the more tournaments I play in, the more Major Championships I play in, I feel like I gain more and more experience.  It's learning more about myself and how to play these golf courses and how to stay within yourself.
Q. Are you happy with where your game is at right now?
HARRIS ENGLISH: I am.  I've had some mediocre finishes the past six or seven tournaments.  Made a lot of cuts, just haven't played too well on the weekend.  I feel like it's really close.  Did a lot of work last week on chipping and putting, and that's kind of what saved me today.  Coming into Major Championships, you got to chip and putt well to compete.  These golf courses are really tough, you're going to hit some bad shots and get in some bad places, but your short game can save you.  That's what I did today.  Made some 15 to 20 foot putts that really got my momentum going.
Q. Talk about that save at 18.  What did you hit into that bunker, first of all?
HARRIS ENGLISH: That hole is playing really tough.  It turned back into the wind.  I smoked a driver and had 3-iron in.  I had 220 flag.  Straight into the wind.  Pretty much to try and hit it center of the green and pushed it a little bit and luckily ended up in a decent spot.  You kind of never know missing around these greens, it's pretty rough.  You never know what kind of lie you're going to get and luckily I was able to draw a pretty good lie.
Q. You were probably, that was a hard shot, because it was over another bunker and big green hit it to four feet I think.
HARRIS ENGLISH: Yeah.
Q. There was a lot of elements there that made it tough?
HARRIS ENGLISH: It seemed a lot easier than from probably from your point of view.  But if you draw a good lie like that, if you draw a decent break, you got to take advantage of it.  You got to get it up-and-down.
Q. What does that mean to you when you're having a good round and you got your self in a position like that to make a save?
HARRIS ENGLISH: It's big.  It's big for momentum heading into tomorrow.  I know 4-under is a really good score out here right now with this wind picking up.  This golf course is tough.  Anything in the red is a really good day.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT