THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE
June 4, 2015
Harris English
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  HARRIS ENGLISH:   I've had some good memories from up here and hopefully can keep it going.  
   
 Q.   What does a round like this do for you?  
HARRIS ENGLISH:   It gives you a lot of confidence.   Anything under par on this golf course is really good.   Shooting 5‑under really tells me I'm doing everything well.   
I felt good in the practice rounds out here, made a lot of birdies and had some good games with friends.   It kind of got me in a competitive mode and I felt really good about it.   I felt really good about my speed out here and I put the ball in the fairway a lot, which leads to you being aggressive.  
   
 Q.   Was it something that got you jump started or was it just a good, steady round?  
HARRIS ENGLISH:   I think after No.7, my caddie told me I was being a little too conservative off the tee, I wasn't really firing at it.   He's like, "Come on, man, you've got to let it go."   
I ended up making a couple birdies.   Made a good birdie on 9, big swing, a 20‑footer, and kind of got it going.   I felt good all day, just felt really good about my round and the way I was swinging it.   So I'm very pleased with 5‑under and hopefully can keep that going.  
   
 Q.   Someone said these are the fastest greens you guys have played all year, but may be the truest.   Do you agree?  
HARRIS ENGLISH:   They're in great shape right now.   This is probably one of the best courses we've played shape‑wise all year.   Like you said, the greens are very Augusta‑like, with how undulating they are and how fast they are.   Even though they're pretty soft right now, I'm sure they will firm up over the weekend.   They're really quick.   You have to be very careful with some of your putts that you don't run four, five, six feet by, because those putts are tough.  
   
 Q.   You'll probably be a Buckeye fan before you leave, right?   I know we can convert you.   
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Come on, we haven't played Ohio State in a long time in football.   Hopefully we'll get the chance this year.   Being from the SEC, it's tough to pull for the Buckeyes sometimes, because they've had some really good years, and obviously last year had an unbelievable team.  
   
 Q.   Did you do anything specific coming into this week to get you prepared for what you were able to do today?  
HARRIS ENGLISH:   I took a couple of weeks off after the PLAYERS, didn't have a very good PLAYERS Championship, missed the cut.   But really worked hard in my off weeks.   
I felt good last week.   Didn't have a good last round at the Byron Nelson, but still took a lot of positives away.   I feel like I've been putting in a lot of hard work and doing the right things.   So it's good to see some results come out of it, and especially on a course like this and at a venue like this.  
   
 Q.   Reflect back on that win in 2011 here in Columbus, what sort of springboard did that do for your career?  
HARRIS ENGLISH:   It was amazing.   Just gives you the confidence that you can play on the professional level, even though the Web.com was a step below the PGA Tour.   When you come right out of college, you never know for sure you can play on the next level.   And it was huge.   I was playing with one of my buddies, John Peterson, who is on the PGA Tour, and it was like we had an inner battle between us.   And we weren't really worried about what everybody else was doing, we were trying to beat each other, which was a lot of fun.   
I have some good memories up here and see if I can spark some of that this weekend.  
   
 Q.   When you think back to a couple of years ago to where you are now with a couple of wins under your belt, do you pinch yourself at times and think I'm with the big boys now?  
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Yeah, it really does.   I was one of the young guys playing on the Web.com Tour and you don't really know if you belong.   It's cool now, seeing Tiger play, seeing Phil.   Playing with two‑time major champion Retief today, it's really cool.   You have to step back sometimes and say this is what I've been wanting to do since I've been 12 years old.   It's a really cool office to be playing in, and I'm trying to enjoy every moment.  
   
 Q.   Why did it take six or seven holes to realize, maybe I should get really aggressive here today?   Is it just maybe bad experiences in the past or you know how tough this course can be?  
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Yeah, exactly.   You know how tough this course can be.   You kind of, I guess, tip toe around it a little bit, because you kind of know where the bad spots are.   
But all in all, there's a hole up there and it's in there for a reason and you've got to play aggressive to make birdies out here.   And that's what I kind of saw early on.   There were some guys 3‑ or 4‑under after five or six holes, and it was out there.   You've got to play aggressive.   And that's what you practice for.   You don't practice to kind of lay up and play away from pins.   You practice all those long hours to hit it where you want to.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT