SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 18, 2015
Harris English
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Harris, a little different golf course.   It was actually the golf course we usually see here, and finally the first time you saw it on a Sunday and it was tough out there.   3‑under par.   Did you think that 3‑under par would really move that much today?
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Well, starting out.   You could tell it hitting balls on the range how windy it is, and I know from the experience last year being in the final group on Sunday, this place plays difficult, especially get a 10 or 15‑mile‑an‑hour wind.   It doesn't seem like much, but on this golf course it plays very difficult. 
I knew kind of starting out 3 or 4‑under would move a long way and it's seeming to stand up. 

Q.   Except for Jimmy, being a really good tournament.   The first six holes, really this golf course with the wind blowing like that, you gotta play attention or you're behind the eight ball right off the bat. 
HARRIS ENGLISH:   That's right.   It's a tough start out there.   You got a lot of good par‑4s.   You gotta drive it in the fairway out there and it's easy to get careless and make some bogeys.   But got off to a good start and didn't make a bogey on the front side and made some really good putts, good par saves.   It keeps you in the round. 
It's kind of like a boxing match, you kind of jab your whole way through and when you get a knock‑out blow, you gotta take your birdie chances, and that's kind of what I did and I'm very pleased with the 3‑under. 

Q.   It's a really good golf course to go into next week, because you know you gotta go low going at Humana. 
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Yeah, it is.   It's two totally different golf courses.   Playing at Waialae is one of my favorite golf courses.   It kind of reminds me of growing up in South Georgia, playing on Bermuda grass, firm and fast greens.   It's a lot of fun, but you gotta kind of regroup for the next week and start hitting the ball a little higher and start taking dead aim. 

Q.   I love the smile and I have the feeling you're ready to take some dead aim next week.   Great playing this week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT