OHL CLASSIC AT MAYAKOBA
November 13, 2014
Harris English
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Harris, it wasn't a good three‑putt there at 18, but you've got to feel pretty pleased with the way you played today. 
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Yeah, I kept the ball in front of me very nicely today, gave myself a lot of chances, which is really key out here.   Yeah, it kind of hurts, the last hole being my only bogey of the today, but I felt like I played some good golf today.

Q.   How did you feel out there today?   Obviously you come back as defending champion.   I know you want to get back to the way you were playing last year.   How did it feel out there?
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Yeah, it felt better.   I made some really good swings today.   It's getting closer and closer to what I felt this time last year, so hopefully I can get some momentum going and see some of those putts start going in. 

Q.   Are you surprised the way the golf course played today?
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Yeah, I've never played this golf course with this little wind.   Some of the shots were a little weird, starting it kind of dead center of the fairway instead of starting it left center or left edge of the rough, but that's why you saw so many low scores today.   I think the wind is supposed to pick up maybe this weekend, and this golf course should get pretty fun. 

Q.   Disappointing bogey on the last.   I'm sorry I even have to bring that up, but otherwise a really great round of golf.   How much confidence do you gain coming back to a venue where you had success last year?
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Yeah, it's a huge confidence boost coming in and kind of reliving all the good shots I hit last year.   I kind of felt that out there today.   I played a lot better.   Hit some really good shots out there and gave myself a lot of good chances.   But yeah, it hurt on the last hole three‑putting, but I'm still going to take a lot of positives out of today.

Q.   That's the great thing about this day, you have a great day and all of a sudden one bad hole, but speaking of your swing and your game, no top 10s since last summer.   What's going on with your game right now, and how close are you to getting back to the form you had last year?
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Yeah, I didn't really drive it well in the summer and in the Playoffs.   I feel like I've simplified things and starting to hit a lot more fairways and getting my driver going a little bit, which helps, especially out here.   Kind of turning some good driving into a lot of good birdie opportunities.   That's what I did today and got the putter rolling a little bit, made a good one on 17, and see if I can carry that into tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT