TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 20, 2014
Harris English
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Harris, that's a great day in the second round, 6‑under for you, great save of par at 18 also.   Tell us about this round.   You got into contention when you played today.  
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Yeah.   I putted really well this week.   I felt like I played really good last week at Oakland and didn't scramble very well, hit the ball really well and didn't putt as good, and I took a different approach and kind of changed my pre‑shot routine on my putts and tried to get a lot clearer, that and not try to over‑read putts.   That's what I was doing last week.   And just kind of get out of my own way, and I putted really well today.  
   
 Q.   How big is it for the weekend when you birdied two of the last four and had that great up‑and‑down at 18 to kind of push you into the final two days of the event.  
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Yeah, it's big momentum.   I played well all day.   I know the scores are going to keep getting lower and lower.   The greens are pretty soft and receptive.   And the wind was a little tricky today.   It was tough to judge at times, but made a lot of 15, 20‑footers.   That's what you gotta do.  
   
 Q.   You've had such a good season, top 10, FedExCup points at ninth.   This would be a great place to really make a statement on the weekend.   How do you feel about it?  
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Yeah.   Glad to get back in contention again and feeling good about my game right now, so see what goes on the next few days and keep making birdies.  
   
 Q.   Good luck, Harris.  
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Quicker, more reactive.   Not trying to over read and do too much with the putts.   Get up there and whatever I see, go.   
   
 Q.   It's working so far.   6‑under on Friday for Harris English.   Harris, how were you able to take advantage of the conditions?  
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Yeah.   It was a little cold this morning, the greens were receptive.   We had a rain a couple of days ago.   Fired right out of the hole.  
My putter got going, made a good save on the first hole of the day and made a 15‑footer for par and kind of jump started my round.  
   
 Q.   You told me you kind of changed your routine with the putter this week.   What's different?  
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Yeah, just being more reactive.   Like last week at the Open I was over‑reading putts, trying to see too much into it.   And now I've been working with my caddie, Smitty.   And just trying to be more reactive, getting up to a putt and kind of feeling what it does and get up and stroke it.  
   
 Q.   You're Top 10 in the FedExCup points race right now.   You've missed four of your last seven cuts.   How nice is it to be in this spot going into the weekend?  
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Yeah.   I've felt good about my game for a long time.   It's been really close.   Hadn't played well as of lately, but it's good to get back in contention and get the juices going again and it's good to finally get my putter going and make some putts.   
Yeah.   Putted really well today.   Made a lot of good par saves, 12 and 15‑footers to keep the momentum going and made some good longer putts for birdie, like on 17, made about a 25‑footer for birdie.   So that helps when you're getting the speed down.   I felt really good all day about my speed.   And kind of eased up on all parts of my game.  
   
 Q.   Do you believe that when you finish your round strong, that it can‑‑ momentum can take you into the next day or do you not believe in that?  
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Of course.   Of course.   Because you're kind of going to bed at night thinking about all the good stuff you did in your round.   At least that's what I do.   And I'll have some good shots to reminisce on tonight and have some good momentum going into tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Based on what you've seen today, how low do you think it can go on the weekend and what do you think this tournament's going to end up?  
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Yeah.   The greens are soft right now.   They usually firm up towards the weekend.   I think with this weather they can get firmer and faster and they'll obviously put some pins that are really tough.  
You've seen the scores be low here for many years.   So it all depends.   It all depends on the weather.   If the wind gets going tomorrow, I mean it could be into the 20s maybe.  
   
 Q.   People debate being the week after the U.S. Open whether that's good, bad or indifferent.   For the grind that is the U.S. Open, to come here, has it just become more fun again to be able to not have to grind out every shot every hole?  
HARRIS ENGLISH:   It has for sure.   Last week was my first U.S. Open.   It was a grind.   Every shot, it feels like you're on pins and needles and really grinding yourself into the ground, practicing.   It was mentally tough.   I took a day off on Monday, went to the beach, hung out by the pool to kind of get away from it, and came up here refreshed and ready to have some fun playing golf.  
   
 Q.   Has your game felt the benefits of that?  
HARRIS ENGLISH:   It has, yeah.   I mean I felt really close last week.   I played well, shot 1‑under on the first day.   I was in the Top 10, and didn't really get it going on the weekend, but still felt good about my game, and I knew I was close, and put some extra time and effort into practicing this week working on my short game and it's paid off so far.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel like that moment is close then for you?  
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Yeah.   Just gotta get back in contention again.   I've had a good year, but hadn't played my best as of late, but I feel like my game has been close.   It's just been a little off, and I realize that's just golf.   
Still putting a lot of work into it, and it's good to finally reap the benefits.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT