MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 9, 2014
Harris English
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  HARRIS ENGLISH:   I would come here every year in college, obviously this is different circumstances and a lot more going on.   So I've played a couple of practice rounds before I came here, but I think it will be a whole new world tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   What does an event like the Par 3 do to kind of help shake off your first time jitters?   Does it feel like a release?   
HARRIS ENGLISH:   It is, it is.   I was definitely a little nervous out there because people are standing so close on the green.   I don't want to hit people, but‑‑ I guess it will get the nerves out a little bit, I guess.  
   
 Q.   Your name showed up on No. 9 there as closest to the pin for about a minute until Louis beat by you about an inch or two over there.   Did you notice your name up there at all?  
HARRIS ENGLISH:   No, I didn't see it.   I mean, tomorrow it'll be pretty full.   I've seen it up there.   Actually playing in this tournament is unbelievable.  
   
 Q.   What is the pairings?   They put you with Russell, one of the Georgia guys?   
HARRIS ENGLISH:   It's really cool.   It will be good for the Georgia people.   A lot of 'Dog fans out here.   Obviously played with him a good bit.   Like him a lot, he's a great guy.   Couldn't be happier playing last off.   
   
 Q.   There is a lot of Georgia fans here and people like Bubba have won and played well here.   What is your interaction like with the Georgia fans?  
HARRIS ENGLISH:   It's been unbelievable.   Even today, a lot of "Go 'Dogs!"   Got a lot of friends and family here, so it's really cool being a part of this and actually playing golf.  
   
 Q.   Who did you have caddie for you today?  
HARRIS ENGLISH:   My mom caddied.   My dad was a little‑‑ he was going to caddie, but he was a little under the weather today.   So my mom ‑‑ brought the ranger in.  
   
 Q.   How did she do?  
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Yeah, she did good.   She don't know a whole lot about golf.   She handed me tees every hole and took my putter head cover off.   She did good.   This is an experience we'll always remember.  
   
 Q.   Does she play golf at all?  
HARRIS ENGLISH:   No, she doesn't.   I think she tried one time and that's about it.  
   
 Q.   I heard you had a hole‑in‑one on Sunday?  
HARRIS ENGLISH:   I did.   Not on a better hole than 12.   It's unbelievable.  
   
 Q.   Congratulations.   
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Thank you.  
   
 Q.   What was the story behind that?   
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Playing with Graeme, just hit a full pitching wedge and landed a little short and rolled in.  
   
 Q.   Did it give you a little more confidence when you get to Amen Corner at least to have some kind vibe?  
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Yeah, got some good vibes here for sure.  
   
 Q.   What the challenge of Augusta National?   You have been waiting for so long to be here.   What do you make of the challenge the course presents?   
HARRIS ENGLISH:   I think it's more like nerves and all the atmosphere.   I mean, it's unbelievable.   This is golf's stadium right here.   It's the tournament I always dreamed about playing and it's finally here.   
I feel like I've done a lot of preparation for it.   Just go out and have a good time and soak it all in and try to climb up that leaderboard and get some stuff going.  
   
 Q.   How do you feel about the state of your game and where it is right now?   You had two weeks off, right?  
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Yeah, little break.   I've played a lot this year, but spent two weeks and relaxed.   Last week, got my game ready and I feel good.  
   
 Q.   You hear about Fuzzy being the last first‑timer to win here.   Is it fair to think that that's possible, either for you or for any of the first‑timers?  
HARRIS ENGLISH:   There's 24 of us here, so I would say that's a quarter of the field.   There's a lot of good player in that rookie class.   Who knows?   I think it's possible and we'll see when it comes out on Sunday.  
   
 Q.   What was the interaction like with Fuzzy today?   
HARRIS ENGLISH:   It was awesome.  
   
 Q.   You guys were laughing?  
HARRIS ENGLISH:   He's a beauty.   I never met him before this week.   He's been a treat to play with.  
   
 Q.   Did he give you much advice for putting or just in general, with his experience?   
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Not really.   I mean, we were just trying to have a good time out here and enjoy the Par 3.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT