WGC CADILLAC CHAMPIONSHIP
March 6, 2014
Harris English
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  KELLY BARNES:     Please welcome Harris English, finishing at 3‑under tied for first with a couple people.   Want to take us through the day.  
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Yeah, it was tough out there this morning, as you could see with the scores not very low.   From that back nine, it was hard to drive it in the fairway.   The tee shot on 10, yeah, it's a par 5 but you really have nowhere to hit it because it's downwind off the left and I had to really drive and went through the fairway into the bunker.   
A lot of crosswinds today that were tough   and I was playing really well and 3‑putted 16, short hole and drive it in the bunker and 3‑putted.  
18, hit a really good tee ball and went in the left water and had 4‑iron in.   That was a really, really hard hole into the wind off the left, basically playing as a par 5 and I had 4‑iron in there and then turned around and played 1, which is a par 5 and had 7‑iron in there off my drive.   So birdied 1 and 2, and then had the rain delay, and then came out and birdied 6 and made a really, really good putt on 9.   
So very, very happy with the round.   
   
 Q.   Could you go through 18 one more time?   You lost me, tee shot, water?   
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Tee hot in the water.   I hit it good, though.   
   
 Q.   I'm sure you did.   
HARRIS ENGLISH:   (Laughter) it's just such a tee shot into the wind off the right, I was just trying to hit a little low cut there and hit it pretty much dead straight and barely went in the water.   
Then 4‑iron in, hit a really good shot about ten or 12 feet behind the hole and 2‑putted for bogey.   
   
 Q.   Great par.   
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Yeah, good par.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about the decision to putt out on 9?   
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Yeah, we were pretty much running to the tee on 9.   Joan as had just birdied 8 and he said he wanted to hit, and Brendon and I were very happy with that.   We could see pretty well.   It was getting really dark, very quickly, but I wanted to finish the hole, because it really changes the way you approach the day, waking up and playing one hole at 8:00 in the morning and then waiting around for three or four hours for your tee time is tough to do.   That way in the morning, we can have a normal day just like today.   
   
 Q.   At what point, if at all, did you cuss the golf course today?   
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Did I cuss the golf course today?   There was a couple times I would say.   It's just so‑‑ especially with the wind today, it's very, very hard to hit it in the fairway.   You can hit decent drives and I feel like if you miss it at all, you're going to be in a bunker and it makes it very difficult from there.   
I think they did a really good job re‑designing the golf course, although I've never played it before.   It's a tough golf course.   I know Mr.Trump wanted a very tough test on the Blue Monster and I think that's what he's got.   
   
 Q.   How would you rate the difficulty from previous days with the wind and the rain and everything factored into it?   
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Previous days I've played this golf course?   I definitely think that today was the toughest.   It was definitely the strongest wind, and the direction, south/southwest I guess we had today; a lot of crosswinds on the holes and with the fairways sloping, you've really got to hold a lot of shots into the wind to keep your ball from running out in the fairways and it made it very difficult.   
   
 Q.   I know you won in Mexico and what Russell did last week, you're a Georgia guy; do you want to keep that going?   
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Of course, we've got a pretty good right now, Bubba playing well, Russell playing well, Chris Kirk winning early in the year.   It's fun having a lot of those guys out here playing well and representing the Dogs.   
   
 Q.   What was the sense among the players, I think Hunter Mahan or somebody said that they expected to be done.   Were you guys figuring all along you would be back out?  
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Yeah, I went back to the hotel room and was kind of ready to take a nap and watch some TV, because the storms looked terrible.   Looked like some tornado‑like weather was coming through.   I think everybody pretty much packed it in and we were going to come out tomorrow morning.   
I think Jonas was one of five guys ordering a burger when he got the call we were coming back out, so he had to run back out here.     Yeah, it was weird, pretty much when they called it, we were all on putting green like, hey, we'll see you tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Did you smash one pretty good on 1 or was it all wind?   
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Yeah, I got that pretty good (smiling).  
   
 Q.   Speaking of having to come back to the course, seemed like a lot of guys bogeyed right off the bat, first hole back.   For you, I mean, did you feel okay?   Did you feel like you were ready to play again?   
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Yeah, I think so.   It's different coming off a rain delay, especially one that you're not ready to come back out or you're not thinking you're coming back out.   I was telling Smitty I think on No. 7, like, man, it's so much different out here right now, the wind is different, you feel different, a little softer out.   It's like the course just totally changed, and I'm sure it kind of threw some guys for a loop a little bit.   
It is what it is.   I guess you've got to adapt to the course conditions and the wind.   
   
 Q.   And no fans.   
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Yeah, it was a little weird.   I said, I feel like I'm playing junior golf again out here.   There's nobody watching our group.   You're just out there, you'd make birdie, nobody would clap.   Just like we were playing junior golf again.  
KELLY BARNES:     Thanks for coming in.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT