WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 1, 2014
Harris English
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   That's kind of a cruel way to end a very solid round of golf.   The cup spit it right back in your face for a bogey on 18.   
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Yeah, I thought I hit a really good birdie putt there.   It was trickling down the hole, and that putt was really going fast, not a whole lot of grass around the hole.   
Yeah, I hit a good par putt and it came right back at me.   But a lot of good positive things taken out of day and going tomorrow.   I still have a lot of confidence in my game and see if I can make a run.  
   
 Q.   How about the eagle you rolled home at the third hole, par‑5?  
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Yeah, that was pretty good.   I hit a really good drive off the tee and a perfect distance for me.   Really probably the longest putt I made all week.   
Tomorrow hopefully I'll get off to a hot start.  
   
 Q.   15, technically that would go down as a chip since it was off the putting surface.   That was a nice bonus, too.   
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Exactly.   That was tough right there on the slope.   Hit a good 5‑iron in there and hit it a hair left.   Tough bunker shot and hit it to 18 feet, I guess, and made it.  
   
 Q.   I thought you dropped a deuce out there at the 16th, as well.   What did you tell me?   It hit a pebble?   That ball got airborne.   It was tracking really well.   
HARRIS ENGLISH:   That green was also really fast.   Probably the firmest and fastest green out here.   I thought I made my first 2 on 16 out here, and it hit something and popped up in the air, but I had a nice little tap‑in there.   I wasn't too disappointed.  
   
 Q.   You will have a chance on Sunday to win your third PGA TOUR event.   How much have the past two wins helped you going into this final round?  
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Oh, it's helped a lot, especially that win in Memphis last June.   I've just become more comfortable out here on the weekend.   It's a lot different from the first two days.   It's a lot faster, a lot more people.   It's a lot different, but I will definitely get used to it.  
   
 Q.   Tough break to add to things on a 69 there.   What would you take away from today's round?  
HARRIS ENGLISH:   I played really solid golf.   It was playing tough out there.   You kind of saw it in the scores.   Nobody really took it very deep today.   
I felt like I did a lot of good things.   Even though I three‑putted 18, I feel like I have a lot of confidence going into the weekend.  
   
 Q.   How tough is it when you're in one of the final groups, these type of galleries, play slowing down, to get in a rhythm?  
HARRIS ENGLISH:   It is tough.   You have to slow down and talk amongst your competitors and kind of hang out a little bit, because there is a lot of waiting on the tee shots.   
It's tough.   I'm still trying to learn out to keep in rhythm because it is hard to go a couple of shots and stay in rhythm.   I'm looking forward to tomorrow, and I'm glad I'm in the spot I am.  
   
 Q.   You said you played well today in spots.   What are the positives you can take away?  
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Especially that eagle on 3 really helped out.   I had nice yardage out there.   I had nice 15‑, 20‑footer.   Try to hold on.   Back nine you can really get it going.   
   
 Q.   Your overall impression of the day?  
HARRIS ENGLISH:   It was very good.   I feel like I had a lot of good golf shots, a lot of good putts out there.   Didn't make a whole lot on the back nine, but I had a good one at 15, almost made one at 16 and obviously 18 hit two pretty good putts and didn't get it down in two.   
Looking forward to tomorrow and feel like I'm in a good spot.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT