WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
January 31, 2014
Harris English
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talk about going into the weekend.   
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Trying to attack the par‑5s and really get my driver going because that will set up a lot of birdies.  
   
 Q.   Where are you leaning towards on Sunday evening for the Super Bowl?  
HARRIS ENGLISH:   That's very interesting.   I'm a big Peyton Manning fan, so I will have to cheer for the Broncos, but the Seahawks have a great time.   Russell Wilson seems like an unbelievable guy.   
I'm just really looking forward to a good game and a lot of points scored.  
   
 Q.   The SEC connection?  
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Yeah, exactly.   Even though he went to Tennessee, I'm a Georgia boy, I actually got to meet him a couple years ago in Chattanooga.   He's an awesome guy, and I'm pulling for him.  
   
 Q.   How much was the wind a factor out there later in the round?  
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Yeah, it was tough.   I have been playing here for three years, and I have never played this golf course in that kind of wind.   Had some tough ones out there early, and especially with the wind, it made it really tough.  
   
 Q.   That being said, it's still a birdie fest out there for you, right?  
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Yeah, it is.   If you drive it in the fairway, you have a lot of wedges, these par‑4s and par‑5s are still reachable ‑‑ I mean, you saw Brandt shoot 7‑under today.   You have just to get the putter going, and that's what he did.   Low scores are definitely out there.  
   
 Q.   What about as far as the weekend is concerned?   Obviously scores are going to be low again, right?  
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Exactly.   This golf course yields a lot of birdies.   You have to go with the mindset to try to make birdies as often as possible and try to keep the pedal down.   That's what the guys are going to keep doing, and that's what I have to do.  
   
 Q.   I just said I don't know if you were aware of it, but 19 straight rounds under par for you.   Do you remember what it's like to play that kind of golf?   
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Now that you said it, I have no idea how I got that, but that's probably the biggest streak I have ever had.   It won't make me nervous or anything tomorrow.   
Yeah, I have been playing good golf, hitting the ball well, and did it today again and had a pretty good round.  
   
 Q.   Being long off the tee is crucial.   But you hit a lot of fairways and in turn hit a lot of greens.   What's the key for you heading into the weekend?  
HARRIS ENGLISH:   I think driving.   You just said it.   If I hit my driver well, get a lot of birdies here, really attacking the par‑5s.   
I had a couple of irons on the par‑5s and had some eagle tries.   That's the name of the game out here.   Attack the par‑5s and get a lot of wedges in.  
   
 Q.   Big sports town here.   You are from a big sports area with Georgia.   Do you have anything special planned for this Saturday?  
HARRIS ENGLISH:   I don't know about Saturday.   You mean the Super Bowl?   
   
 Q.   On 16.   
HARRIS ENGLISH:   I didn't know about that.   I don't have any Georgia apparel with me.   I might drop some golf balls or something.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT