WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
January 30, 2014
Harris English
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   A 6‑under 65 in Round 1, a little disappointing finishing with a bogey, but overall your round was pretty good. 
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Yeah, I played really well today, pretty much clicking on all cylinders, had the putter going early, and then I started hitting really good. 
Yeah, bogey hurts on the last hole, but come back tomorrow and see if I can get going.

Q.   How were the greens?   You were playing a little bit later in the day. 
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Yeah, I mean, they definitely get chewed up a little bit in the afternoon, but that's no excuse.   You still have to start on a line and do your lines, and I didn't hit my lines the last couple of holes. 
The course is in great shape, obviously green grass, greenest place on earth.   It was good.   A lot of fans came out today, so it was a good day.

Q.   You're one of the longer hitters out here on tour.   Is your length really helpful on this course?
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Yeah, I really enjoy this golf course.   It's my third name playing this event.   I   played well here as a rookie.   I think I finished 15th. 
I feel like the golf course sets up for me.   I'm looking forward to the next couple of days.

Q.   Same question.   You bogeyed the last one. 
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Yeah, I was rolling there on the back nine there pretty good.   And even 16 I hit a really good 8‑iron, and it was 180 to the flag, and I flew an 8‑iron just a little behind it, which is pretty unusual.   I guess I was a little juiced up on that tee, but I left myself with an impossible up and down and bogeyed there.   And so I guess you just take it. 
I really should have gotten the ball up and down on 17 and should have made par on 18, but I had no business going left of that flag.   I pulled my wedge shot a little bit, fell to the edge and off the green. 
The had some pretty good pins out there today.   They had some Sunday pins that you usually don't see on the first couple days.   I guess the scores are going to show it.

Q.   Tomorrow we see you in a nice spot, second round.   Somebody said when you're at the top and looking at the next day... 
HARRIS ENGLISH:   You really just keep playing your game.   I felt like I was really striking the ball well and had a lot of 15‑footers in for birdie.   You can give yourself a lot of chances, keep going well.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT