SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 10, 2014
Harris English
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Beautiful shot high above Oahu, round 2 of the Sony Open in Hawai'i.   Brian Stuard leads by one, but this man, Harris English, after his second straight 66, is now just two shots back, so 66 and 66.   How would you compare the two rounds?
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Yeah, they were totally different.   Yesterday I hit the ball really, really well and didn't putt so good, and today I was kind of all over the map and made some good putts on the back nine to help keep me in it.

Q.   Let's show you now some highlights.   Help us go through them if you will.   The 11th hole?
HARRIS ENGLISH:   I finally hit a good 7‑iron in there and I had a pretty good read from Charles behind me, pretty straight putt, going a little right, dead center.

Q.   Your second shot now at the 12th?
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Yeah, my wedges have gotten so much better since I switched to the Callaway wedges.   I had a pretty good number there.   I hit a little 52 in there and hit it pretty good, about five feet up the hill. 

Q.   Second at 14 now. 
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Yeah, I had a right‑to‑left wind, left pin, pretty good go, pretty good green light, kind of swung an 8‑iron in there, started a little right of the flag and swung in there and went a little past the hole.   Pretty tricky putt.   I actually thought I missed that putt to the right, and it hung in there and went in. 

Q.   We were standing on the tee box with you at 17, you weren't happy with that shot, but this one you were happy with, your second?
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Yeah, for sure.   Didn't hit a very good 7‑iron there.   Hit a pull, not a greatest shot, but made it up with that 58‑degree from the bunker.   That's what you've got to do, have par saves like that.

Q.   30 putts yesterday, 22 today.   You have the new putter in the bag.   Why did you make the switch?
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Well, I struggled last week in Maui with my putter.   I had a lot of trouble reading the greens and my speed, so I figured it's going to be a pretty good week coming here.   I putt pretty good on Bermuda greens.   I work with Johnny Thompson from Odyssey for a while on Tuesday, and he got a pretty good putter.   I'm putting with a two‑ball now.

Q.   You play one glove on the hand and one glove on the back of your belt.   What's up with that?
HARRIS ENGLISH:   I didn't realize I had that on there.   I was drying it out for a little bit and somebody told me.

Q.   You didn't realize it?
HARRIS ENGLISH:   I didn't realize it.   I was walking off 18 tee, and someone was like, you know you've got a glove in your belt, and I was like, why didn't you tell me that.   I've had that for the whole back nine.   I guess I was drying it out on 9 or 10 and left it there. 

Q.   Another good, solid round, 4‑under par 66, but maybe not quite as good a ball‑striking day?
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Yeah, it was a tough day today.   Kind of a grind it till you find it day.   It started on the range this morning, I was hitting pulls, which is not my normal.   My normal is kind of over‑cut it, kind of miss it to the right, and I started out just hitting pulls.   I missed a lot of shots, missed a lot of greens, which is not my normal miss.   So I had to really grind on the short game and get my putter going.   That's what I did, and I'm very happy with coming out with 4‑under today.

Q.   22 putts today, I guess you did have the putter going. 
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Yeah, yeah.   That's kind of a weird stat because I don't know how many greens I hit, but probably not as many as I did yesterday.   It's just those clutch like six‑ and eight‑footers for par that I made today that was the difference, that kept me in it, kept the momentum going.   That's really what it's all about.   I mean, obviously on this golf course it's really hard to hit the fairway.   You're going to miss some greens out here.   You've just really got to make those six‑ and eight‑footers for par.

Q.   I talked to a friend of yours, Hudson Swafford.   What's in the water down there at Sea Island?
HARRIS ENGLISH:   It's such a good spot.   We've got so many people down there that are playing on the PGA TOUR, and we're so competitive with each other and practice with each other and go play, and it's been a lot of fun.   I'm so glad I moved down there from Athens, and I'm loving it, and hopefully we'll get some more guys out here. 

Q.   You're now a two‑time winner on the PGA TOUR.   36 holes left, but you've got to go in with a lot of confidence?
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Oh, for sure.   I've been in these situations a good number of times the past couple months, and I'm so much more comfortable now than I was say last year at this time.   It gives me a lot of confidence going into the weekend that I can scrape it around, hit it not great today and still shoot 4‑under.   I'm going to go to work on the range this afternoon and see if I can hit it close to the flag tomorrow.   But yeah, it's just been a lot of fun out here, and I love being in contention. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT