OHL CLASSIC AT MAYAKOBA
November 17, 2013
Harris English
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Harris, your second win on tour.   You in second standing for the FedExCup points.   Good day.   How are you feeling? 
HARRIS ENGLISH:   It's awesome.   My first time at Mayakoba.   It's such a great tournament.   Had a great time this week.   Stayed down in Playa.   Had some great beach time.   Had some good golf course time.   Obviously it worked out in my favor.
Yeah, like you said, second in the FedExCup.   I mean, that's huge.   It's great for the FedExCup to be a part of this tournament and to have it on schedule for the 2014 season.   I'm sure ‑‑ I mean, the field strength was really good this year, and it's only going to get better.
It's awesome to see.   It's awesome to see Mexico kind of wrap around this tournament and be the country's tournament.   It's really cool.   A lot of people came out today.   It was awesome to see everybody out there and really enjoying golf.
That's what this is all about, is for the people of Cancun and Playa and all the surrounding towns to see the PGA TOUR and get acclimated to all the golfers out here. 
So it was really cool. 
THE MODERATOR:   You said once and again how much you enjoyed the course.   Tell us a little bit about your experience on the course.
HARRIS ENGLISH:   It's actually a pretty difficult golf course.   Especially with the wind, it makes this course really difficult.
I played in the morning on Thursday and it got pretty windy, and then all the storms came through.   Those mango trees.   I don't really know what they call them out here, but it's tough.   You got to hit a lot of straight tee shots out here.   When you have a lot of crosswinds it makes it really different.   You've got to flight the ball really well.
I kind of went back to my shots at the British Open because you got to keep 'em low and hit 'em really solid and not really hit full shots.   You got to grip down and really control your ball flight and control your spin. 
I really enjoyed it.   The course is in excellent shape.   They had a lot of rain this week.   The superintendent and staff did a great job maintaining the course and making it playable for us.   It was excellent. 
THE MODERATOR:   Questions. 

Q.   Congratulations.   I'm going to make the question in Spanish. 
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Okay. 

Q.   (Through translation.)   Your first appearance at the Masters.   Secondly, how important is it to you to be a Georgia Tech alum being in Georgia? 
HARRIS ENGLISH:   First of all, I'm not a Georgia Tech alum, I'm a University of Georgia alum.   Bubba Watson, Kevin Kisner, Chris Kirk who won last week, Brian Harman, Hudson Swafford, Russell Henley.   We've got a lot of alumni out here. 
But it was in Athens.   Atlanta is a probably an hour away.   But I'm good friends with all these guys. 
Going back to your first question, my first appearance in the Masters this April, I guess, I mean, it's been my dream since I was a little kid to play in that event. 
I remember going with my dad and some of my friends every so often.   I was there in 2004 for Phil Mickelson's win on Sunday.   It's very special to me, and it'll be special to be in Augusta, which is really close to Athens.   I'll have a lot of friends and family there and a lot of Georgia people to root me on.
It'll be a lot of fun. 

Q.   Congratulations, champion.   You have only 24 years old.   (Through translation.)   I am really impressed with how calm you are on the course every round, especially in the last round when you were just head to head with Karlsson.   Just impressed also by the scores, by the different rankings. 
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Yeah, I guess it started when I was younger about being calm on the golf course.   I used to get pretty mad when I was younger, and my mom used to get onto me how I need to stay calm and act like she doesn't know if I'm shooting 85 or 65. 
I've watched guys like Freddy Couples, Davis Love, Phil Mickelson, all these guys growing up, how they acted on the golf course.   They didn't really get down on a bad shot.   You couldn't tell if they were playing good or playing bad.   They were always smiling and having a good time and enjoying the game.
That's how I've emulated my upbringing, my golf game, is after those guys.   It's been awesome to have those guys to look up to and to bounce questions off of and to really get to know those guys. 

Q.   Do you think you can be a stronger player after winning the St. Jude Classic in a great tournament against big names like Rory McIlroy?
HARRIS ENGLISH:   I think so.   It's more about a comfort level for me out here.   My rookie year I was in the last group with Rory at the Honda Classic; I was in the second to the last group with Matt Kuchar at the PLAYERS, so I knew how they won the tournament and how they finished it off.   I watched it in person.
I think the win in Memphis helped me from a comfort standpoint coming down the last nine holes of being within one or two, three shots of the lead and being comfortable out there and knowing I can pull it off and to hit the correct shots and really be confident in what I'm doing.
Today I felt like I was very confident.   I hit a pretty bad drive on No. 2.   Hooked it left in the hazard.   My caddie kept staying, Let's stay calm, let's confident, keep doing our thing, and good things are happening.
I knew I was putting good all week.   That was the strength of my game.   I felt like if I could get it on the greens somewhere 30 feet or in, I had a really good chance of making it. 
So it really helped my confidence level coming down the stretch. 

Q.   What do you think the most relevant rounds or more memorable rounds of golf in your career have been?
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Has to be that final rounds of the Web.com Tour tournament that I won in Ohio State, and probably the final round in Memphis.
This round today will definitely go in the record books as well.
I really don't remember all the bad shots I hit in a tournament, but I can vividly remember all the good shots, especially those past tournaments that I've won or had really good rounds.
I know I'll always remember some the shots I hit today and some of the feelings I got from today's round. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT