VALERO TEXAS OPEN
April 4, 2013
Harris English
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Just briefly talk about your round today, especially after the start you got off to and how you were able to come back on the back nine? 
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Yeah, it was playing pretty tough on the front nine.   I hit it in the rocks on the first hole, chipped out and made bogey.   Then I probably bogeyed that par‑3 as well.   I only shot 2‑over on the front, but I was hitting it well and putting it well.   Me and Jim, my caddy, just kind of said, hey, I'm playing well.   Stuff's going to start happening. 
I made a good 12‑, 15‑footer on 10 and that kind of got the ball rolling, and it just started going in every time.   It's good to get on a streak sometimes and I kind of got on that streak on the back nine.

Q.   Speaking of going in, can you take me through your eagle? 
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Yeah.   It was downwind on that tee shot, so I was trying to get it short right of the green or right of the green.   I hit a really good one, and it kicked left off the bunker and went to probably 20 feet or so above the pin, and I just made a nice putt to dribble over the front edge.   That was my first eagle on a par‑4 in a while.

Q.   Is there anything different this week that you can attribute this to? 
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Not really.   I've been playing well the past couple of weeks.   I just haven't really put it all together, and I got some good rest these past couple of days.   I haven't really stressed myself out overpreparing, so I felt like I was rested today, and it showed. 
Even though I got off to a bad start, I knew that I was playing well and I knew if I had some stuff go well, I could turn it into a good round, and that's what happened.

Q.   Obviously, you're going to be playing in the morning now.   How do you take this confidence from what you did on this back nine and put a good round up tomorrow? 
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Yeah, just keep it going.   This is my 30th PGA TOUR event.   I've had a couple of these rounds before, and I've just got to keep it going.   When you're playing good, you've got to keep trying to make birdies, and that's what it's going to take out here. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT