TAMPA BAY CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY EVERBANK
March 15, 2013
Harris English
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Another really strong round, 25 putts.
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Yeah, I had the speed going again today.   Hit a lot of greens, and played the par3s really well.   I had four birdies on the par3s.   I had my irons going and all around, pretty good out there.

Q.   You birdied four of the five par 3, the only one you did not birdie is the 17th and you played the par5s in even par.   Just the opposite of what you would expect. 
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Yeah, a little weird.   These par 5s are pretty tough out here.   You've got to hit some really good tee shots out here.   If you hit in the rough, it's hard to get back in play.   Luckily on the par3s hit some good iron shots and made some good putts for birdie.

Q.   Talk about your putting, you have an unusual putting motion, you look like you're almost bowling with your right hand.   Is that just to get the feel?
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Yeah, just trying to be an athlete, just trying to picture like I'm shooting basketball or throwing a football.   That's really all putting is and I'm really just trying to simplify it and just feel it in there.

Q.   Warming up in the dark this morning and the cold, how was that?
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Yeah, it was a little chilly this morning.   I definitely haven't have enough clothes on.   Had a couple hand warmers going but it warmed up nicely and it should be a good day this afternoon. 

Q.   You've got a late tee time on Saturday. 
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Sounds good.   I'm looking forward to it. 

Q.   If you can elaborate on the weather, the way is shifted so much from yesterday to today and coming out cold this morning, how much did it hamper your play or help your play?
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Yeah, we definitely got the better end of the wave yesterday.   The wind died down a little in the afternoon, but you have to come out in the cold and play six or seven holes in 45‑ or 50‑degree weather, so you kind of get the best of both. 
It is what it is, and you've still got to play the golf course and hit golf shots.   I don't know if the scoring is going to be that much different, because this afternoon, you never know what's going to happen. 

Q.   Are you surprised 6‑under at this point has the lead? 
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Not really.   I mean, this is a tough golf course.   You have to hit it really straight and make a lot of putts.   The pins are real tough out here and if you hit in the rough, it's real hard to make par, and they have done a good job setting up the golf course and setting up the pins.   They know what they are doing and I think it's going to be a good weekend. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT