CHILDREN'S MIRACLE NETWORK HOSPITALS CLASSIC
November 9, 2012
Harris English
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Harris, solid play, man.   I know at the beginning of the year as a rookie you had a little checklist on what you wanted to get done this year.   I think you got all of them but one accomplished?
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Exactly.   I'd like to come out here and get a W this week.   That was kind of the plan all along in the Fall Series is try to win a tournament.   I have my card locked up, so I don't have to worry about that, but it would be nice to get in contention on the weekend.

Q.   No question.   Going in there and getting the pace of the FedExCup series and a little bit of the Playoffs.   Just growing and growing and growing and keep on going ‑‑ if you win this week, I think your name's going to be put on a special list, isn't it?
HARRIS ENGLISH:   I hope so.   This year has been all about experience and just getting comfortable out here and learning what to do and whatnot to do.   It's been a good year.   Like you said, I made a couple of Playoff events, didn't make it as far as I wanted to. 
Hopefully next year can keep it rolling.

Q.   I live out in the desert and I watched you play Q‑School, just casually watching you play, and just that week I talked to Brian Katrek on his show and I said, man, watch this kid.   He is going to be the Rookie of the Year on the PGA TOUR.   Thanks for making me look pretty smart.   You might not have that yet, but you are one heck of a player. 
HARRIS ENGLISH:   I appreciate it.   Like I said, it's been a good year.   A lot of good rookies have played well this year.   Seeing Jonas win the Frys.com gives me a lot of confidence that I can get out there and do it as well.   So it's been a great year.

Q.   Hard question for you maybe.   I really don't see a weakness in your game.   What for yourself do you think you need to improve onto take you to the next level this year?
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Definitely wedge game and scrambling.   I've been looking over the stats from this past year and that's what I'm weak in.   I feel like I drive the ball pretty well and I don't have a lot of wedges in the holes.   I put everything within 10, 15 feet every time.   If I can do that and work on that in the off season, hopefully I'll be there next year. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT