THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 3, 2012
Harris English
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  DAVE SENKO:   Harris, thanks for joining us.   4‑under 66 today, which was the low round of the day.   Maybe just some thoughts on your round, T‑2 going into tomorrow.   
HARRIS ENGLISH:   I played pretty well today.   Missed it in the right spot.   On my good shots, I made some good birdies I felt like on the back nine and really in the Bear Trap, I just missed in the right spots and kind of knew where I would have a shot of getting up‑and‑down from.   It's really tough in that wind hauling off the right, it's tough to hit it in there close, and 3 is good on those par 3s.   I felt like I did everything well today.   Really, really hit the ball where I wanted to, and putted well.   
DAVE SENKO:   How were conditions?   I know the wind‑‑ how much of a factor was that?   
HARRIS ENGLISH:   It was pretty tough.   These fairways are pretty narrow, and you've got to drive the ball well.   I felt like I was hitting the driver really well, and I'm not sure how many fairways I hit today but I felt like I was in the fairway a lot and didn't have to punch out of the rough which really helped.   I could be a little more aggressive going at some flags and trying to make birdies and that's what I did.   Luckily had some good chances at birdie.   
DAVE SENKO:   Birdies, No. 3 and 4, do you remember your shot sequence on that?   
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Yeah, on 3, hit the drive in the fairway and then hit a good 3‑wood on that front right bunker and got up‑and‑down.   These par 5s, you've really got to take advantage of, especially 3 that I can hit two good shots and get there in two.   I've got to go ahead and try to make an easy birdie like that, and that was what I did.   
Then 4, hit my hybrid in the fairway and then hit a wedge to about eight, ten feet short of the hole and putting uphill again, made it right in the center.   
DAVE SENKO:   Bogey at 5.   
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Yeah, that was a really tough hole.   That wind, coming pretty hard off the left and that pin kind of tucked left.   Hit a pretty good shot and went long over the green and chipped it to about six feet and lipped it out.   I hit a good putt and just didn't go in.   Fours on these par 3s are not terrible.   
10, that was kind of what got me going today.   Hit a good drive and a really solid 4‑iron that landed 15 feet short and trickled over the back edge.   I had a pretty delicate chip, I was really thinking about putting because it was a weird lie and I ended up chipping it in.   That kind of got me going.   Got me pretty excited.   
DAVE SENKO:   How far?  
HARRIS ENGLISH:   It was only about a 20‑foot chip.   That pin is back pretty far and I was just behind it, a little delicate chip, and made it.   
12, I played the hole well.   I hit another good drive on the fairway, and hit a knock‑down 7‑iron to eight, ten feet behind the hole.   Made another good putt on that.   From eight to 12 feet, I felt like I was putting really well and when I hit some good shots in there for birdie, I capitalized a lot.   
DAVE SENKO:   16 was your last one.   
HARRIS ENGLISH:   I hit a really good drive off the tee and had 167 yards in.   That's a perfect 9‑iron for me, wind down off the right.   Hit a really good shot about six feet and made it for birdie.   That was a really good number for me and I could go ahead and hit full.   
   
 Q.   You just turned pro last September; how big is this stage for you?   
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Oh, it's awesome.   The past year has been unbelievable for me, starting with making it to the finals of the NCAA Championship while at Georgia.   Unfortunately we lost that last round, but that kind of I guess kick started my summer and then working into Q‑School and then this winter.   It's been awesome.   
I mean, playing the Walker Cup was probably the biggest stage I've ever played on.   It was just really good for me.   I've learned a lot this past year, especially.   Hopefully I can keep learning a lot.   These veterans out here have helped me a good bit, and hopefully I can just keep learning and keep getting in contention like this and keep having some good experiences.  
   
 Q.   You won on the Nationwide Tour as an amateur; does that tell you that you're ready for this?  
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Yeah, that was probably my third Nationwide I played in.   Coming down the stretch with John Peterson was really good and I learned a lot about myself and how I play under pressure.   It was a really good boost for me, winning that tournament.   Kind of let me know that‑‑ I don't know if I'm actually ready to play and win a tournament yet but it kind of helped me get over that first hump of knowing I can do it.   I've been learning a lot these past five weeks, six weeks, playing on the PGA TOUR and I feel like I've learned a lot and had some good experiences and I'm ready to play tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Do you think it's odd that you'll be in the last group tomorrow with a guy who could go to No. 1 in the world and he's the same age as you?   
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Yeah, Rory is awesome.   I haven't had a chance to meet him yet but I've definitely watched him play the past couple of years.   He's got a great game and he deserves it.   I think he's the best player in the world right now, I mean, hands down, and I'm looking forward to tomorrow.   Not sure if I'm going to play with him, but he's very impressive.   
   
 Q.   Your West Coast results were decent but nothing really jumps out.   Coming back to the East Coast, do you think that helps you at all?   
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Yeah, definitely.   I mean, I grew up on bermudagreens, bermuda fairways.   Going out west was pretty tough on me because I had never seen those golf courses and travelling.   Never really got a day off, playing Monday through Sunday, every week, five weeks in a row.   It was really tough for me and I learned how to travel better and how to get my rest better and how to eat better.   
I had two weeks off after Pebble Beach and really got my rest and worked on my game some.   I came down here very prepared, and I definitely like these bermudagreens a lot better.   I feel like I can read them very well and get the speed down.   So it's been good for me.   Driving down here five hours was really easy.   I could pack a lot of stuff in my car and not fly, which was very easy.  
   
 Q.   Had you played the Champ Course out here?   
HARRIS ENGLISH:   I haven't.   I came down on Sunday afternoon and played the back nine and played Monday and Tuesday.   But I really like it.   It's one of the best Florida golf courses I've ever played and it's in really good shape and they have done a great job in this tournament so far.  
   
 Q.   What's the key to playing on Sunday with threesomes?   Is the longer wait time on shots, is that going to be tough to deal with?  
HARRIS ENGLISH:   From my experience on Sunday, it's going to be slower, anyway.   You've got to kind of pace yourself and know that it's going to be slow.   You can't get frustrated with hitting and waiting, hitting and waiting.   It's good.   I'm looking forward, threesomes or twosomes, doesn't matter to me.   You've still got to play golf and I'm just really looking forward to it.   
   
 Q.   Feel like you're ready to win?  
HARRIS ENGLISH:   I think so.   I mean, I just hope I'm there in the end in contention.   That's all what you dream about and what you practice for, and I think‑‑ and I've definitely been in that situation with that Nationwide win, and I'm glad to be in the position I am and see if I can hit some good golf shots tomorrow and put myself in position to win.   That's all I'm going to do.   I'm looking forward to it.   
DAVE SENKO:   Thank you.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT