THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 2, 2012
Harris English
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Good playing so far, a stumble in the middle of your round today; how did you feel about the first 36 holes?  
HARRIS ENGLISH:   It was really good.   I played well and kept my composure very well today.   Like you said, I had a stumble on my 9th, 10th and 11th hole, but I came back.   I played solid coming in.   But overall, I played well and happy to be at 5‑under for the tournament.   
   
 Q.   A solid West Coast.   How nice is it as an East Coaster to get back to Florida?   
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Oh, it's a lot better, only a five‑hour drive and I can pack my stuff in the car instead of hauling it on the plane, so it's a lot easier.   I'm used to this bermudagrass growing up in south Georgia, so just glad to be here.  
   
 Q.   Have you been looking at the leaderboards during the round and seen what your buddy is doing?   
HARRIS ENGLISH:   I saw on my 8th hole, I saw Harman was 6‑under for the tournament.   I knew he shot 3‑over today and saw he had a heck of a round going today.   Hope he can close it out.   Happy for him and hopefully we'll be playing together.   
   
 Q.   That is a possibility.   Assess the first two months of what should be a very promising PGA TOUR career?  
HARRIS ENGLISH:   It was awesome, I really had no idea what to expect starting at the Sony Open in Hawaii, I had never been to Hawai'i before and kind of got things going.   Played well there.   Didn't play good the last day but just kind of kept it going.   
A lot of these guys have helped me out, the veterans have helped me out, especially the Sea Island guys.   So it's been good.   I've enjoyed it out here and just love golf and love playing on the PGA TOUR.  
   
 Q.   One guy that's helped you out that you have to call "Captain" right now.   Have you had any conversations with him lately?  
HARRIS ENGLISH:   Yeah, we have talked.   He's helped me out for sure.   Just kind of keeping me going.   
I have to take it one shot at a time and one hole at a time and just keep going.   I'm happy to be in the position that I am and see if I can keep it going.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT