NEWSWEEK CHAMPIONS CUP
March 12, 1996
Carlos Costa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 GREG SHARKO:  This is Carlos's sixth career top ten win and first
of 1996.  Questions.

 Q.  Have you ever beaten Boris before in any of these top
10 wins?

 CARLOS COSTA:  I didn't play Boris.  My first time. 

 Q.  What did you think was the difference today out there?
Do you think the conditions bothered him?

 CARLOS COSTA:  For sure, the conditions are so bad today to play
tennis, but also for me.  I didn't play well.  He didn't play
well.  Maybe for him it is the first match and I played yesterday
and -- I don't know.

 Q.  What was your plan against Boris, your strategy?

 CARLOS COSTA:  I don't know.  Against Boris, if he play well,
it is difficult to have some tactic, know, but the thing, he missed
a lot of first serves and that helped me a lot and with the second
serves, I tried to put the serve to his feet and I don't know,
I think you have to play -- I was waiting for his attack.  That
is the only thing.

 Q.  Were you pleased with the passing shot, your passing 
shots today?

 CARLOS COSTA:  Yeah, I played very good passing shots backhands
and forehand, but I don't know, maybe that is the reason he can
go -- he didn't play well at the net, I don't know. 

 Q.  What was your feeling when you realized that it is very
windy conditions?  Did you think that it would increase your chances
or did you have it as much as Becker?

 CARLOS COSTA:  You never know.  Sometimes without wind, maybe
I play well, he play well and the match is much better for the
people, but you never know.  I think today was better for me.


 Q.  Why?

 CARLOS COSTA:  I don't know, because I won.  That is the only
reason.  Because he didn't play well.  I didn't play well.  But
maybe I was a little bit with concentration there, and I don't
know.

 Q.  What was your mindset?  What were you thinking when you
were down 4-1 in the second set?

 CARLOS COSTA:  Well, I just tried to win my service games and
the third game in the second set, I had two breakpoints 15-40;
then I was waiting for another occasion like that.

 Q.  Were you impressed to play him for the first time of your
career, with his reputation and his wins? 

 CARLOS COSTA:  I don't know - I think I am like seven years on
the ATP Tour and I like to play like these players and I am here
four weeks.  I played in Memphis, Chang and Philadelphia, Courier,
and I think finally I beat one of these.

 Q.  Are you pleased with your serve?

 CARLOS COSTA:  Yeah.  I think I served very good the first serve
and also the second, no, because -- but it is difficult to play
like this volleys, he is waiting to play chip and charge, but
it was difficult today.  Maybe without wind, he play better, I
don't know. 

 Q.  I noticed you are wearing a T-shirt from Scottsdale where
you lost in the first round.  I would think you would want to
forget Scottsdale. 

 CARLOS COSTA:  I don't understand.  Oh.  I like it.  It's a big
tournament.  It is a good tournament, but I don't know why I have
this T-shirt here now here. 

 Q.  Do you think you can be a factor a the French Open this
year?

 CARLOS COSTA:  I don't know.  We have to wait.  We played hard
court; not clay court now, and I play six tournaments this season,
I didn't play well.  I played some matches very good, but you
have to wait and I don't know in clay court, it is different,
very different.  We have many players like Bruguera, Berasategui,
Alberto Costa, Spanish guys, they play unbelievable clay court.
 So it is tough, I  don't know.

 Q.  Why does there seem to be so many good Spanish players
coming up recently?

 CARLOS COSTA:  In clay court? 

 Q.  Yeah. 

 CARLOS COSTA:  We don't have many hard courts in Spain.  We always
play in clay court that.  That is maybe the reason.  Now, this
year, we practiced in hard court, all the Spanish guys together,
and then I think it is good.  We play many tournaments in hard
court this season, and it is good.

 Q.  Is that something that you guys are trying to do, is to
play more hard --

 CARLOS COSTA:  Yeah, we have to because we have like Davis Cup
on hard courts, and we never play well there.  Also the big tournaments
are on hard courts, like Indian Wells, Lipton; all these tournaments,
$1 million are on hard courts.

 Q.  Did you play many hard court tournaments last year?

 CARLOS COSTA:  Not last year.  No, I played three or four.

 Q.  So this year you are playing more?

 CARLOS COSTA:  Yeah, every year I play like seven or eight, but
last year I didn't play.  I just played three or four. 

 Q.  When did you realize that Becker wasn't that confident?
 Was there any stage in the match early when you  realized it
was not --

 CARLOS COSTA:  I think he make a lot of mistakes at the net,
you know, when he serve and volleyed, but I think -- I don't know.
 Last tournament he played, he played was in Milan; he lost to
Ulihrach.  I was thinking about that before the match because
it is important when you come from one tournament; then if you
win or if you lose third round, it is important and for sure,
he started to play without confidence.  And I don't know, maybe
he start like this, I play well, I don't know. 

 Q.  You were in the top 10 a few years ago.  Do you feel able
to get back to where you were?

 CARLOS COSTA:  I hope.  I don't know.  When I was top 10 I play
unbelievable like ten tournaments and it is difficult to do that
now because we have many, many players like Muster, or -- it is
difficult, but you never know.  Tennis is strange and I am working
for that.

 GREG SHARKO:  Anything else?  Okay, thank you.

 CARLOS COSTA:  Thank you. 

 End of FastScripts........   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT