U.S. OPEN
September 3, 1993
Carlos Costa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. How do you feel now after having your match to your advantage?
 
CARLOS COSTA:  I feel great.  I didn't expect this match. 
 

Q. You didn't expect to win?  When you say you didn't expect to win, but you already beat him?
 
CARLOS COSTA:  It is different on claycourt.  It is very different on claycourt than hardcourt. 
 

Q. What made you dive for that ball at that point?  Did he ever win a point like that before?
 
CARLOS COSTA:  I dived because I had to get the point and there was a little bit of luck and I got it. 
 

Q. Could you talk about the tiebreak being down five nothing and coming back.
 
CARLOS COSTA:  I started tiebreaker very tired, you know, but then he gave me couple of opportunities; I took them, and he gave me opportunity to, you know, to continue and I took it and I won the tiebreaker. 
 

Q. How do you feel he played?
 
CARLOS COSTA:  I really don't know because I rarely seen him play on hardcourts.  My specialty is on claycourt, so I barely see him playing hardcourt. 
 

Q. Were you surprised he didn't come in anymore behind his big serve?
 
CARLOS COSTA:  Again, he doesn't have an idea how he plays on hardcourt.  I never played hardcourts with him or seen him that much.  My specialty is clay court, so I haven't had the opportunity to see Goran playing hardcourt that much. 
 

Q. Did you feel comfortable on hardcourt today?
 
CARLOS COSTA:  Yes, I felt very comfortable.  I don't play as much on hardcourts, but, yes, I do feel very comfortable. 
 

Q. Was it your plan to change speeds and keep him off balance?  That seemed to be what you were doing.
 
CARLOS COSTA:  Today than the other days? 
 

Q. Yes.
 
CARLOS COSTA:  Today I have much better serve and my first serve percentage was much better. 
 

Q. Playing on a court that is not your specialty, how did you find your game today; in the straight sets and in front of a grand -- front of an aces shooter?
 
CARLOS COSTA:  You know, played very well the.  He gave me the opportunities; I took them.  That is why I played well. 
 

Q. Are you going to celebrate your victory in any special way today?
 
CARLOS COSTA:  No, because I have to play tomorrow. After tomorrow. 
 

Q. You had such a great year last year; then had you some bad times.  Do you feel you are coming back now?
 
CARLOS COSTA:  I don't know.  Maybe.  I hope so, but I have to try to play the next year in the big tournaments claycourt; I have to play good and then to get points and go up in the ranking. 
 

Q. Thank you.     


End of FastScripts....
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT