ROSE BOWL GAME: OREGON v FLORIDA STATE
December 29, 2014
Mario Edwards, Jr.
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   I know you guys are excited, back to the Rose Bowl again. 
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   Yes, sir, yes, sir.

Q.   This time it's the Oregon Ducks.   What do you see on tape?   Tell me something. 
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   Definitely just how athletic Mariota is, his ability to keep the play going, his ability to scramble out of the pocket but still keep his eyes downfield and make a big play.

Q.   Trying to force him to throw the football, not use his legs?   What do you do?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   You can try to make him one dimensional.   But he's a great athlete.   You can only try to do that.   We definitely have to keep up with the hurry‑up tempo they have and try not to get too tired and out of whack.

Q.   One thing you guys have done is fall behind, but you always come back and win ball games.   What's it about these guys, and their system?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   Definitely, they're a different type of offense.   They're great with scoring points.   We definitely can't get behind or too far behind because they'll make us pay for it.

Q.   Tempo an issue here with Oregon?   A little bit different than what you've seen. 
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   Oregon is pretty fast.   They try to run hurry‑up tempo after big plays and things like that.   The only thing I can compare them to is when we play Auburn, hurry‑up tempo like that.   But after a while after the game goes on the tempo may slow down a little bit.

Q.   (Question about Marcus Mariota)?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   The challenging part is he's stronger than what most people think he is and arm tackles won't bring him down and also his ability to, our ability to contain him in the pocket and if he scrambles he keeps his eyes downfield and he can make a big play.   We have to try to contain Mariota and hit him early and hit him often.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   Altogether they work great.   Individually you have some that are better than others and things like that.   But at the end of the day they work together as a unit and they're really great.   What puts them above everybody else is how conditioned they are.

Q.   Have you seen any guys like that when you play in the ACC?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   No, not really, not really. 

Q.   What do you do in your free time?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   Anytime we get any free time we try to relax a little bit, watch a little film.   We try not to overthink about the game, because even though it's so hyped up now it's still just a regular game and we gotta go out there, play like we did all the other games.   We try to relax, hang out with some of the teammates or watch some film.

Q.   First time you stepped into the Rose Bowl stadium?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   I was definitely nervous.   Had butterflies, all the smoke and planes flying over the field, it was just like I was ready for the performance.   I knew I had to perform and it was a little scary at first, but once the first hit and the first kickoff went, I was good.

Q.   Were you able to pick one player from their team that you compare yourself most to?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   I haven't really watched the defense side of the ball.   So I don't know on the defense who I would compare myself to.   So I couldn't really answer that question for you.

Q.   (A question about declaring for the NFL)?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   Right now, I mean, it's not really on my mind, right now I'm trying to focus on our last two games, Oregon and if we win going to Dallas.   So I think I'll be able to make a decision probably after that, but right now I'm trying to focus on those games. 

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   Not that I know of.

Q.   How excited are you about this, to go against somebody (indiscernible)?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   Definitely.   You know, we get to go against a different pack and it's different because he's a Heisman winner.   You get to go against different talent, it's not the ACC or the SEC. You get to play against different people.   It's definitely fun to go out there and play against the whole offense because they're all athletic.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   Watching film on him he's a fast guy but I can only compare his athleticism to a Nick Marshall as far as speed‑wise but the difference between I would say him and Nick Marshall and speed is Nick Marshall is a 0 to 60 guy.   He can pick it up.   Mariota is more of a build‑up guy.   Once he gets started it's hard to catch him.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   It's not too bad.   It is all about, what you make it.   As long as they're not asking any crazy off‑the‑wall questions I can do it pretty good.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   No, not yet.   Not yet. 

Q.   No playing football for three weeks and up‑tempo.   Is it a challenge in your particular position to keep from getting guys (indiscernible)?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   It's been great.   We've had a good look as far as our practice squad.   They've been doing a great job.   And we've just been doing extra conditioning. 
Me personally, for this game, during the end of the season I started eating right and got in shape.   I'm entering this game at 278 where earlier in the season I was three bills easily.   For me I've been eating right and conditioning and preparing for the fast up tempo.

Q.   Coach always said don't use your program weight (indiscernible).   You saw what happened last year you had Jernigan, as good as he is.   Over time, he's gassed.   How do you‑‑ do you expect to have problems with the group up there?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   Definitely.   You expect to have those problems, but it's all about the rotation.   That's where the 1s, 2s, 3s come in.   If you can't go, get somebody else in there.   We trust and believe in each other and we know the second string and third string will come in, we won't miss a beat.

Q.   One thing about these games, they have four extra timeouts.   You as a defensive player, the breaks are more frequent and you get a chance to get‑‑
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   You know, all the big TV games they get the timeouts and things like that, you can catch your breath and things.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   That's even better for us.   That means we can call the timeout, if all of us is sluggish or tired.

Q.   (Indiscernible) teams got outside of you guys.   How much of an emphasis has that been?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   It's been a big emphasis.   We have to play our responsibilities and not get out of our gaps and you can't second‑guess them and really have to keep your eyes on him and things like that because he'll trick you and keep the ball in the run or extend the play by scrambling throwing downfield.   We definitely have to be disciplined in assignments.

Q.   You've been around great players.   But you can scout team and you can simulate it and you can watch tape.   (Indiscernible) in person, are you able to see how he is?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   Definitely.   When we saw him the other day at Disneyland, he looks taller in person than he was on camera.   So when I saw him he's a very kind of athletic build guy.   So I'm definitely ready to see how he plays in person. 

Q.   The last year, the teams you've played have been read option, where Georgia Tech is straight option.   Does that help at all in preparation for Oregon?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   Definitely.   They like to do that a lot, too.   That definitely helped us build up to this game.   But I mean it's definitely a different monster now.   Mariota and the different backs they have is different speed and different athletes back there.

Q.   Similar to what you saw from Auburn last year in the national title game?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   That's what I would say I would compare it to.   Mariota as far as athletic‑wise is more like Nick Marshall and the speed of the game and hurry‑up tempo is similar to Auburn.

Q.   Does a month getting ready help you guys?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   If you have a whole month, it's great for everybody.   Everybody can get better and you have more time to watch film.   You have more time to put in game plans and things like that.   So I think it will help us.

Q.   How much is helping Oregon is assignment, knowing where the ball is, finding it, doing your job, not doing too much?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   Definitely not doing too much.   Being assignment‑sound.   Don't get out of your gap and beat them back to the ball.   Stay with the tempo.   Don't let the tempo wear us out and definitely beat them back to the ball.

Q.   Teams that have beat Oregon have traditionally beat them on the lines.   Get penetration.   When you watch film, are you confident this group you have can do that?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   Most definitely.   I would think we have one of the best defensive linemen in the country and we have Eddie and DeMarcus Walker and myself.   And we're not getting Nile back.   So we'll do a great job of not letting them be physical on the offensive line.

Q.   What's the difference between you guys first half and second half, seems to be two different teams?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   If I had to answer that I would definitely try to make it better for us on the first half.   Sometimes I think we just go out there and think too much and then once we come in and make the adjustments we end up doing great.

Q.   Is there a sense of urgency, though, in knowing that if you start slow against Oregon you can get down (indiscernible) the lead on these guys?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   Definitely.   We're definitely trying this game not to get down or not to get down as much that's why we definitely have to play assignment sound on defense and try to contain Mariota.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   I mean, that's what everybody else thinks.   We try not to think like that.   We know inside that locker room it's all about us and that we're going to love, trust, believe in one another.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   I think so too.   They try to put a label on us.   They just want to find every way to kind of make us the bad guys.

Q.   That's what it seems like in the game, right?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   Yeah.

Q.   Is that fair?   Does that bother you?   Make you play harder?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   Doesn't bother me.   I tell everybody else it's a regular game.   Everybody is boosting this game up more than what it is.   But at the end of the day it's 60 minutes on the clock, four quarters and go out there and compete against another team.   It's really another game.

Q.   Perception of the guys‑‑
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   I don't even think of it like that.   We're Florida State and they're Oregon and we just want to go out there and have a good game.

Q.   (Indiscernible). 
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   I never really understood us being the underdog.   But I mean if that's what the world wants to call us, then that's cool.   We just gotta go out there, prove them wrong.

Q.   Take off your player hat, as a fan of college football, you have two Heisman Trophy winners.   What's the biggest part of the game for you?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   Just seeing both the trophy Heisman winners, who is going to be the best, who is going to make the most throws and best plays.   And really just seeing a great football game.

Q.   Marcus Mariota, does he remind you of anybody you've seen this year?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   Not really this year.   Athletic‑wise I keep saying he's more a Nick Marshall as far as how athletic he is, able to break tackles, able to change direction and his speed.

Q.   And do you guys think there's too much time between the ACC title game and this, or is it a benefit and help for you?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   I don't think it's too much time.   I think it actually is a benefit.   You get a whole month to watch more film, to critique them, put in a great game plan and go out and get a victory. 

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   Just my dad.   I have a second family that's coming.   My uncle's coming as well.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   No.   Some of them live in Texas and the other ones live in Mississippi.

Q.   Is your family coming out to the Rose Bowl?   What's it like knowing‑‑
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   It's great.   They get to come to a handful of games.   And for them to be able to make it to this game is definitely big.   I know I have my support system on the sideline with my dad and in the stands with my family.

Q.   You have a lot of players on the team whose families didn't come, disappointing part (indiscernible)?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   It is kind of disappointing, because most of their families is from Florida, and they're able to come to all the home games and things like that but coming out to Cali, some can't make it.   Want to play harder knowing their familiesisn't there.

Q.   How cool is it to be one game away from playing for a national title back in your home state?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   Man, it's definitely great.   That just means it's bigger for us to go out there and win and fight and come out with a victory so we can go back to my hometown.

Q.   What high school?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   Denton Ryan.

Q.   How many family members did you have for that game against Oklahoma State?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   I had a lot of family and friends coming from there.   I would say probably about 15.

Q.   Was it difficult going to Florida State?   What other schools? 
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   Originally it was Oklahoma, Texas, Florida State and LSU.   I almost kind of changed and went to LSU towards the end, but had made a commitment to Florida State so I'm glad I stuck with it.

Q.   Get back that chance at Cowboy Stadium, (indiscernible)?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   Couldn't write it up any better than that.   Our motto starting at the beginning of the season is Dallas is Dallas and to know we're only one game away from doing that is definitely exciting.

Q.   Are you guys surprised you're undefeated, defending champs what do you make of that?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   I never really understood it.   But that's the way the world wants to put us and things like that then we have to roll with the punches but come January1st we'll be able to go out there and prove them wrong.

Q.   What's the key for you guys to be successful?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   We definitely have to be physical as a defensive line.   Knock them off the ball.   Get penetration and things like that, but the biggest thing is containing Mariota. 
Easier said than done, just the type of athlete he is, his ability to look down field and scramble, make plays and extend the plays with his feet.   And he never takes his eyes down the field and he can make a third‑down play, where you think you're getting off the field, into a first down and you're still on the field.

Q.   Have you seen a team like Oregon's this year with all those weapons?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   Definitely not this year.   I keep comparing the offense or Mariota to like the national championship last year, the hurry‑up tempo with Auburn, the athletic quarterback with Nick Marshall.   The different type of running backs.   I compare that team to that just because of those situations.

Q.   In these three weeks of preparation, is Jimbo focused on tempo, conditioning?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   Definitely.   You can try to do it as much as possible.   But you know it's only going to be different in the game.   Because they do it every day.   They've been doing it all season.   So it's definitely‑‑ we can't get exactly how they've done it.   But I think we did a pretty good job of doing it.

Q.   Must be pretty cool for you guys to be able to play a team you've never played before, to be able to play a Pac‑12 team.   Uniforms, all that stuff, is that pretty cool for you guys to play a different team?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   Definitely.   We play all the ACC and then we play Florida and things like that in the SEC but definitely just to go to whole different league and play a different type of athlete, a different type of system, is definitely going to be fun.

Q.   What about the Oregon rushing attack, (indiscernible) is there and a lot of different weapons there.   I assume you key on that (indiscernible)?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   Definitely.   They have a couple of different type of running backs.   Some are speed and some power running backs.   You definitely have to see who is in the game and how you need to play them.   But ultimately they have tons of athletes that can touch the ball and go for 6 at any moment.

Q.   My understanding you lost a couple of pounds sort of thinking about the tempo. 
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   Not necessarily just for this game.   It was just for the best thing for me.   Earlier in the season I was about 312, 315 and in this game I was 277, 278 range so I definitely need to get in shape for this hurry up offense.

Q.   Does that make a difference?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   Definitely, I'm a lot faster, quicker and able to go for more plays.

Q.   Tell me about that again, that 300 pound thing versus‑‑
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   I was about 312 to 315 at the beginning of the season.   Now entering this game I'm about 277, 278, I feel a lot better.

Q.   It wasn't just for the‑‑
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   I got hurt a little earlier in the year with concussion, sprained my MCL.   I couldn't do the things I could do to stay in shape so that made me gain weight.   But once I got fully healthy I was able to trim down the way I needed to.

Q.   You were talking about what it feels like (indiscernible)?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   Well, not just Mariota but to stop the whole team but need to be physical from the defensive line point, knock the offensive linemen back, have penetration and try to contain Mariota.   You can only try to contain an athlete like that and his ability to look downfield and still extend the plays and make big plays.

Q.   Is there a part of you that's glad you guys are looked at as the underdog?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   I mean, we've kind of been the underdog I would say all season because everybody is doubting us and thinking that we're so close in games, that we're not blowing everybody out like last year, but if that's what the world wants to put us as the underdog then come January 1st we have the opportunity to prove them wrong.

Q.   Does it tick you off a bit defending national champs and undefeated and people doubted you?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   You're going to get pissed off a little bit but at the end of the day we know what we're capable of doing.   We know if we prepare right and we're ready I don't think that anyone in the country can beat us.

Q.   How much doing this last year like this right now?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   It definitely helps.   First year, last year, it was new to us.   So we were more excited about it and we didn't know how to handle it but now second year around easier to handle we understand what's going on and what's going to happen so we're focused.

Q.   I don't want to‑‑ I'm not trying to get in here, do you get a little sick of hearing about how nice Mariota is?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   Yeah, you do, but at the end of the day that guy's a great athlete.   He's earned everything that has come his way and now we're ready to go out play against him on the 1st.

Q.   Do you feel a little defensive of Jameis because people are comparing the two, Marcus is the nice guy and Jameis is the mean guy?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   They're both nice guys.   I'm around Jameis all the time.   I met Mariota yesterday.   I don't think Jameis is a mean guy or anything like that, I think people are making it one guy the good guy, one guy the bad guy to pump up this game more than it is.

Q.   (Question about preparing for this offense) what are you guys doing to deal with that and how has your linebacker, second tier done to take care of it?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   We're trying to start up front.   I think when you start up front everything trickles down from the linebackers to the secondary.   Up front we're trying to be as physical as possible, try to contain Mariota and keep them in the pocket and make him throw the ball more.   But he's dangerous because he's fast and he's athletic and he can scramble and keep the ball going.
But we've just been trying to simulate the hurry‑up type offense.   Of course you never can get as close to them because they do it every day and been doing it all year but I think we've been doing a great job of it.

Q.   When you compare Oregon what you've seen on tape to what you've played throughout the course of the year who do they compare to?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   I can't really put anybody this year.   This time I've been getting this question obviously more like an Auburn last year as far as the hurry‑up offense, the athletic quarterback, and the athletic guys that's on the offensive side that's able to take it for a touchdown at any given moment.

Q.   Talk about as far as that being you guys step out on the field what's it going to be like, the emotion?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   It'll be high adrenalin but the good thing about it, it isn't our first time.   First time last year I had butterflies, everybody had butterflies but this year it's our second year back so we kind of know we're ready for it, we know what to expect and we know what the Rose Bowl has to offer.

Q.   Talk about the experience factor.   How much will that help you guys going into the game and still being undefeated?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   That's definitely going to help us a lot.   We know what the Rose Bowl have to offer.   We've been there before.   This isn't our first rodeo.   We know what everything has to offer.   We'll be ready to go out there and play.

Q.   What makes you great?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   Makes me great?   I wouldn't put myself as great yet.   Because I still can get better. 

Q.   What are the keys to success?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   I would say the key to my personal success January1st is being physical, chasing the ball and being dominant.

Q.   On the field, is there anything you (indiscernible)?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   Just when the clock hits double zero and us losing, that's the only thing, but I feel like if we've prepared the way we've been preparing and we go out with the mindset we had all year we'll come out victorious.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   With all the roller coasters and the like, I don't like the feeling I get in my stomach it was horrible.   The Tower of Terror, that was my worst one.

Q.   Did you watch a tape of the Oregon/Arizona game and what did you‑‑
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   Watching the Oregon/Arizona game what I learned and saw was the defensive line.   It really starts up front.   If you're physical at the point of contact with the offensive line, you're knocking them back, it makes it harder for them.   So what I really saw was just the defensive line really putting pressure on the offensive line and making them block.

Q.   And Oregon struggled with the offensive line and what they've improved, did you notice that?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   Yes, of course.   They suffered a few injuries but they have a lot of great players back.   So we definitely just have to go out there and try to stick with their tempo and be physical.

Q.   Playing against Mariota, what makes him different than other guys you've played?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   How athletic he is first and his speed.   His ability to extend plays with his feet.   And he constantly looks downfield.   And where it's third down and long and you're thinking that you're going to get off the field with a nice little play, he's able to scramble out of the pocket, look downfield make a 15‑, 20‑yard throw in and you're still on the field.
So his ability to extend the plays and keep his eyes downfield.

Q.   Anything that you're going to concentrate in the pass pressure that maybe you don't have to focus as much on other games?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   Staying in our lanes, not giving him lanes to run through and giving him the ability to scramble and make plays and definitely just being physical.   You have to be physical with the offensive linemen and try not to get pushed past the quarterback because that's easy for him.

Q.   How do you stay in your lane?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   It's just all about being disciplined.   Coach has been telling us never get pushed by the quarterback.   If you feel like you're about to get past the quarterback sit it down and try to contain.   You get pushed past the quarterback you lost containment.
It's really about being disciplined and doing your job, really.

Q.   (Question about the mental approach)?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   I would definitely say what motivates us is just our coach.   Coach Jimbo.   He always tells us to love, trust and believe in one another.   Even though we've been down 20 points or 10 points or whatever we all listen to what he told us to do, love trust believe in each other and what motivates us the most is just really counting on the guy next to you. 
We know we're not going to let each other down because we're all we got.

Q.   Why do you think the team has bought into that?   You can tell you've got a trust.   But it's your decision whether or not (indiscernible) why do you think you guys have bought into it?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   Some of the guys‑‑ all the guys on this team now, the majority of them was here last year, and they saw that buying into what coach Jimbo said got us the national championship.   So basically the proof is there. 
So we've just been listening to coach Jimbo and he won't steer us wrong.

Q.   Obviously the difference this year is because of the playoff.   There's a little bit of a different setup to all that.   How would you say it's different before you get to the‑‑
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   I don't think the approach is any different.   We're going to approach this game like we approached all the other games.   It's not a bigger game.   Everybody is pumping it up to be more than it is.   But in reality it's 60 minutes, four quarters, gotta go out and play football.

Q.   You obviously went through this experience before being at the Rose Bowl.   Does it not feel the same last year when it was the National Championship?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   The only difference this isn't the last one, this isn't the big game.   And in order to get to the big game this is the game you have to win.   So I guess that's the only difference is knowing that it's either win or go home.   So that's the difference.

Q.   In terms of the approach, knowing that there could possibly be another game after this game, does it take away‑‑ normally this week it's about business, but having fun with the guys in California?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   Definitely, Coach Jimbo tells us when it's time to have fun, you have fun.   When it's time to handle our business, that's what we do.
Times like this, when we have free time to go to Disneyland or Universal, things like that, we have fun.   When it's time, when we walk over those white lines for practice and watching film, then it's business time.

Q.   What are you looking forward to?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   The most fun, the one that scared me the most was riding the Tower of Terror.   That was fun but scary at the same time.

Q.   Did you scream?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   Yes, I screamed like a little girl. 

Q.   When you approach a quarterback like Mariota, does a good job throwing the ball and running and escaping the pocket, what's the focus for you guys defensively?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   The focus on us defensively is keeping him contained, trying to contain him.   Like you said, he's an athletic quarterback.   He's able to extend plays with his legs and keep his eyes downfield, make big plays.   We definitely have to put pressure on him and hit him often.   Definitely try to contain him. 
If he breaks contain, he's able to go 60, 80 yards on you easily and able to get his eyes downfield.   If he can't make a 60, 80 yards, he can throw a bomb and score a touchdown.

Q.   What about Oregon's tempo?   They've been known to execute plays, fastest tempo in the nation.   How are you prepared to handle that tempo?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   Definitely a lot of conditioning and trying in practice trying to simulate their tempo.   Of course it will never be like theirs because they do it every day and all season, but I think we did a great job simulating how their offense is ran and I think we'll do good.

Q.   Based on Oregon's offensive line, been kind of a unit (indiscernible) all season, been healthy, what do you see from their line and their running backs as far as what you guys can key in on?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   Their offensive line, some are better than others, but ultimately as a whole, the offensive line grew.   They work great with each other. 
With their running backs, they have two, three running backs that are fast, strong.   So you really just have to key in on which particular running back is in.   That way you know what kind of plays you'll get and what to expect.   But you definitely have to be physical.   That's our thing, that's our motto that we've been doing this whole time we've been here, is be physical and beat them back to the ball.

Q.   Talked about the offense yesterday about their mindset.   You guys found yourself in some of those bowls and games this season, how about the defense, when you realize you can't afford to give up any more points, what's going through the huddle with those points?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   We listen to Coach Jimbo.   We love, trust, believe in one other.   And even though we've been down 21 points or 20 points, you never see the look in our eyes as if we're going to lose.   We always know if we can go back inside and make adjustments, we'll come back and we'll be good.

Q.   Does this Oregon team resemble anybody you played this season so far?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   Not this year.   The only kind of team I can compare them to is Auburn, the hurry‑up tempo and the athletic quarterback, and the athletes that's in the backfield that can touch the ball and go for 6 at any given moment. 

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   Jameis and Marcus, I mean, they're different as far as Mariota is faster than Jameis, but they both can make great throws.   I would just say that Mariota is faster. 
I can't really just separate them into two.   They're both Heisman winners.   They've definitely been doing something right.   But I don't like to compare the two and say who is better and who is not.

Q.   Does it help that you face someone who is so much like Marcus (indiscernible)?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   Definitely.   You know, everybody pubs up that he's won the Heisman, yet Jameis won the Heisman last year.   We've been playing against a Heisman winner since basically since we got here.   So I mean I guess it's okay and it's kind of helped us.

Q.   You said that three weeks of practice has really helped.   (Indiscernible)?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   Rod is definitely a grown man.   He's a freshman but a lot of people don't understand that even though he's kind of slim to be an offensive lineman, he's very strong. 
If he gets his hands on you, you can pretty much kiss the baby, you're not going to get loose or anything like that.   And going against him, he's definitely helped me a lot, just how athletic he is and how he's able to move his feet and get his hands on you.   He's actually gave me a good look for the guy I got up to go against come Oregon.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
MARIO EDWARDS JR.:   It definitely helps us a lot.   But the difference between our offensive line and their offensive line is their tempo.   So the only thing that I think that us as a defense have to worry about is their tempo.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT