US OPEN
September 4, 1997
Magnus Larsson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Nicklas, can you tell us how your back is? 
 
NICKLAS KULTI:  It's much better.  I had some problems with it over the weekend.  I had a couple days of rest and treatment.  I feel a hundred percent again. 
   

Q.  Jonas, do you consider this a little revenge, considering what happened one year ago when you didn't play on the team?
 
JONAS BJORKMAN:  No. 
   

Q.  Is it true that you were a little bit annoyed last year when you couldn't play?
 
JONAS BJORKMAN:  No. 
   

Q.  Jonas, is this just the icing on the cake for you as far as the season that you've had?
 
JONAS BJORKMAN:  Yeah, more or less.  I think it couldn't be a much better way to finish the year off, if I could be part of this team, winning the Davis Cup.  So that would be something special, definitely. 
   

Q.  Nicklas, can you tell us about your experiences last year, the match you played against Arnaud Boetsch, is it nice to be back, do you think about that final?
 
NICKLAS KULTI:  Well, I don't think about that  final.  It's nice that we're in the final this year again, have some revenge.  Hopefully we're going to win this.  I can't say that I just had good experience from last year because we lost.  We were close to winning it. But, I mean, overlooking everything, I mean, it was a great match.  It's not that bad to finish runner up in the Davis Cup.  Hopefully, we're going to win this year. 
   

Q.  Talk about your choice of a second singles player and about how you feel Jonas and Magnus stack up against Michael and Pete in the singles.
 
CAPTAIN HAGESKOG:  The choice of Magnus playing the second singles was, after this week's practice, Magnus has played well.  The matches against Pete and Michael, I think Magnus has a really good chance to do something big against Pete.  And Jonas has good memories from the Hannover match against Michael.  So we're going to discuss what he did well in that match and then go on from that. 
   

Q.  Magnus, does it matter to you psychologically, or how does it matter to you psychologically that you've beaten Pete twice this year?
 
MAGNUS LARSSON:  I think the most important thing is that I know what it feels to beat him.  Otherwise, it's  tougher in tight situations.  But, I know I can beat him in tough matches, which I've done.  And, he knows also that he can lose to me, you know, if he doesn't play a hundred percent.  So I will have that in mind.  I did a good match against him a few years ago.  I lost, but still I had a good match.  You know, I have chance.  I come here to take it. If not, I still hope we can win.  If I lose to Pete, I'll have another chance with Michael.  Hopefully, I can finish that one.  I'm looking forward to the weekend.  We have a great spirit on the team.  Going to be excited about it. 
   

Q.  How much do you think in a final the crowd home advantage can be or isn't it?
 
CAPTAIN HAGESKOG:  Of course, it's nice to play for a home crowd.  It's easier to feel at home and comfortable the week before when we are practicing.  So, yeah, it's going to help us, I think. 
   

Q.  Jonas.
 
JONAS BJORKMAN:  Well, like Carl said, it's nice to be back home.  You've been on the road for many weeks this year, so it's nice to concentrate back home.  The home crowd definitely will be nice to play in front of. 
   

Q.  Question for Jonas and Nicklas.  Do you consider  yourself the favorites in doubles or do you expect that Sampras might play?  For example, if you're leading two zero?
 
JONAS BJORKMAN:  No matter who is going to play doubles on the American team, definitely will be tough to beat.  But me and Nicklas has been playing pretty good the last couple months, and hopefully we can continue that. 
   

Q.  Jonas, what is it like to be all over town on these posters?
 
JONAS BJORKMAN:  Different (laughter). 
   

Q.  Could you have imagined something like this a year ago?
 
JONAS BJORKMAN:  No, not at all.  It's definitely a nice feeling, but a little bit unusual.  I'm not used to that, what can you say, only me up on the signs.  It's nice, but the whole team is here to win, and hopefully we can win it together.  It's not only a one-man show here.  It's just nice to do something, try to promote the Davis Cup as good as they can. 
   

Q.  Mr. Hageskog, can you give one or two reasons on why it is you feel that Sweden with a small population and not a very big budget is able to maintain its place at the top of the game, not only in Davis Cup, but you have six players in the top 40?  Could you give one or two reasons  why you think this is able to be maintained?
 
CAPTAIN HAGESKOG:  I think it's due to that we are a small country, and we have good support in the clubs.  If there are talents, we know all of them.  And we have a good system in the Swedish Association where they educate the players.  And also tennis nowadays is very popular, a very popular sport in Sweden, that makes the talented athletes choose tennis perhaps instead of soccer or ice hockey nowadays.  I think that also helps. 
   

End of FastScripts....Q. Magnus, the other Swede that made the quarterfinals here, Jonas Bjorkman, probably
would have played Patrick Rafter's service inside the baseline. You played him back behind
the baseline. Could you not have come in closer? Do you trust your feet to do that?
 
 MAGNUS LARSSON: Jonas and I have totally different games, so it's a bit hard to say. I
like it better to be back. Also I don't feel comfortable playing, hitting the ball early,
when it's kind of windy. He was playing well. I just didn't take my opportunities. 
 
Q. Did that hurt you today, because you had to play back so far?
 
 MAGNUS LARSSON: I mean, it was really gusty out there. It's the same for both players.
Really nothing to say about it. He was playing big points better first two sets. Final
set, I had no chance at all. Nothing more to do. 
 
Q. Were you surprised by the way he did seem to lift his intensity a bit second and
third sets?
 
 MAGNUS LARSSON: I think first set, playing well, especially from 2-All, really played
well. But the first two sets were so close. Think we won the same amount of points. Just a
few important points in the first set. One breakpoint each in the second set. Hit his ball
on the line when he had breakpoint. When I had breakpoint, I just couldn't make the
return. Small difference. 
 
Q. Was there a moment out there when you realized, "This isn't my day, isn't
happening"?
 
 MAGNUS LARSSON: Well, I mean, when started to play really well in the third, broke my
serve, 4-2, then it's getting tough. Before, that the first two sets were really close. A
point here, a point there can just make the difference. 
 
Q. Was the wind blowing all one way today, Magnus, or swirling?
 
 MAGNUS LARSSON: It was always had the wind with you at one side, but also a little from
the side as well. It was pretty gusty. I'd say the same for both players, we change sides.
It's in both favors. Nothing more than that. 
 
Q. Is he playing well enough to win the tournament?
 
 MAGNUS LARSSON: There are four guys left after tonight. All of them can win the
tournament. If he come that far to semifinal, you never out of the tournament. Everybody
can win. 
 
Q. Is there anything different about the way he serves and volleys, chips and charges?
Anything different about him compared to other players?
 
 MAGNUS LARSSON: I played a lot with Edberg over the years. I know what's happening, you
know. But he's really athletic, moves well at net. It's hard to pass him. He's picking up
his baseline game a little bit better every year. He doesn't miss too much from the
baseline. He's improved his game a lot the last few years. He's going to improve even
more. He could be a real danger. 
 
Q. What is the main difference between his game and Edberg's game, if you had to
compare the two?
 
 MAGNUS LARSSON: Seven Grand Slams (laughter). Maybe six soon. Still big difference.
Stefan was hitting the ball cleaner from the baseline, I think. But Rafter is moving
really well. He's not over the hill yet. 
 
Q. Difficult to pass out there in the wind today?
 
 MAGNUS LARSSON: Yes. But, I mean, it must be difficult for him to approach the net all
the time as well. He was really handling the volley well. Played a lot of good volleys in
these conditions, which is tough. So it's all credit to him.  
 
Q. Had you seen him playing against Agassi?
 
 MAGNUS LARSSON: I just sat a little with the TV that night. I didn't watch that much.
I've seen him play a lot of times. There were no secrets. 
 
Q. Are you going to play Davis Cup?
 
 MAGNUS LARSSON: Ask the coach. 
 
Q. Are you expecting to play singles or since there is you, Bjorkman and Enqvist, who
has more chances to play singles?
 
 MAGNUS LARSSON: I'm going to go there, practice with the team. Also Norman is ranked
before me. We have a lot of players ranked better than the Italian players, by the way. 
 
Q. We know it (laughter).
 
 MAGNUS LARSSON: We going to have a lot of thoughts in the next few weeks to see who's
playing. For sure, the best two players will. If that's me, Jonas, Thomas, Magnus Norman,
we'll see. 
 
Q. Is it important for you to play or you don't care that much?
 
 MAGNUS LARSSON: It's important to play, but most important is to win. We'll see about
that. We have a good team spirit. If I don't get to play, I wish the team support. If I
get to play, I'll do everything to win. 
 
Q. You look as though you might have been in pain. Are you okay?
 
 MAGNUS LARSSON: I've been in pain the last five, six years (laughter). I'm tall. My
body can't take that much. No, I have some back problems. Doesn't harm my game. When I
play a lot on hardcourts, especially last year I had to retire here first match with back
problems. Didn't harm my game. It hurts a little bit. 
 
Q. Have you watched Jonas enough in the last few months to judge at what level he's
playing right now singles?
 
 MAGNUS LARSSON: We live in the same town, played in the same club for ten years. I know
what he's capable of. He's really hitting the ball well. I think he's not done here yet. 
 
Q. Have you seen him play this well before at such a concentrated stretch?
 
 MAGNUS LARSSON: No, I have not. 
 
Q. Is it confidence?
 
 MAGNUS LARSSON: Not this many weeks. The whole year, by the way. He's been playing
really good. I think he's got some more business to do here before he's finished. 
 
Q. What happened to the first point of the match? Do you think the ball was good?
 
 MAGNUS LARSSON: Yes. I know the ball was good.  
 
Q. Why didn't you give the ball to him?
 
 MAGNUS LARSSON: I had a few bad calls before. On hardcourt, you never know. I would
like to see him serve it out. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT