US OPEN
September 2, 1997
Magnus Larsson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  Q. Magnus, just a victory or a great victory?
MAGNUS LARSSON: It was not a very good match, but it's a good win. Both of us made a lot of errors, missed a lot of easy points. I think both were thinking of the match we had the other week when it was a very tough game, one of my best matches this year, which I lost. I don't think any one of us wanted to run as much today as we did the other week. We missed much more today, but at least I was serving very well, so that was the key, I think.
Q. One week ago, did you think you would come to the quarterfinal?
MAGNUS LARSSON: Pardon?
Q. At the start of the Open, one week ago.
MAGNUS LARSSON: As it turned out, Enqvist got sick. I was supposed to play Enqvist second round, he got sick. Opened up the draw a bit for me. But I was playing well before in Indianapolis. Last week I was practicing; the week before I was practicing. I was hitting the ball really well, so I didn't doubt that I could play good tennis this week. But then you also have to win matches, so I'm very pleased with the way I play. Hope to go a few more matches.
Q. Do you think it changes the players' minds a little bit, attitudes, now that Sampras is out, that it's anybody's tournament now?
MAGNUS LARSSON: You can beat Sampras. I beat him a few times. Of course, it's easier now, you know, but he's still human, and anybody can beat him. Of course, it's a great win for Petr. The farther you go in a tournament, the harder it is to beat Pete. It opens up for sure, but still everybody can win.
Q. Do you feel right now that you can win this tournament?
MAGNUS LARSSON: I just take it one match at a time. There's eight players left, eight good players. It's anyone's Open this year. We will see. But I like the way I played. I hit the ball well. We'll see who I face next round. I hope to play a good match. From there on we go.
Q. Can you give us your thoughts on Rafter and Agassi, depending upon who you'll have to play for your next match?
MAGNUS LARSSON: I don't want to speculate on that. I'm sure it's going to be a great match. I think it's going to be a very good match. I might even take a look at it at home. Rafter is playing well at the moment. Agassi seems to be playing better every match. Hard to pick a winner out of that.
Q. Whose game does your game match up against best?
MAGNUS LARSSON: I played Pat the first time in Cincinnati two weeks or three weeks ago. I lost a very tough match, I think 7-5 in the third. It was a close one. I had a few tough matches with Agassi, as well, when he was at the top of his game. So we just wait and see what's happening. Different tactics whoever I'm playing. We just going to wait and see what's happening.
Q. They're very different players to play?
MAGNUS LARSSON: They're very different, yeah.
End of FastScripts….


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT