THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 24, 1995
Magnus Larsson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 MAGNUS LARSSON:  It would have been nice to win, but I still
think I made a good tournament.  I think I celebrate birthday
back home.

 Q.  How much confidence do you need to play against Agassi
and hitting the ball sometimes even harder than he does?

 MAGNUS LARSSON:  You just don't have confidence; just some power
in your arm.  But of course, I was walking into the match with
confidence and I have been playing well all year, so I thought
I had a chance to win.  I came close, but again, he was returning
too well in the tiebreaker.

 Q.  Andre referred to you as "lethargic" which means
sort of slow and ploddy.  Do you think of yourself as a slow ploddy
player?

 MAGNUS LARSSON:  Not really.  I don't know what you think about
it.  I don't think I am that slow.

 Q.  Well, he said you didn't have quick feet; you made great
shots, but you didn't necessarily have quick feet; do you think
that is accurate?

 MAGNUS LARSSON:  Yeah, I mean, I don't move as well as Agassi
does or Pete, but I am much taller. I have much more legs to take
care of.

 Q.  How is this match different than the one at the Grand
Slam Cup?

 MAGNUS LARSSON:  Grand Slam Cup it was fast indoor courts, I
was serving very well that match, and I think Agassi was more
focused on this match than the Grand Slam Cup.  Started off bad
in Munich, and I think he didn't give himself a chance to win
the match at that time.

 Q.  You look back at the game in the first set; you drew even,
5-All, then you had a very loose game right after that.  I mean,
that could --

 MAGNUS LARSSON:  I had a problem to serve in that side.  He broke
me three times same side and, yeah, I mean, I had to take a few
chances to beat Agassi and sometimes it worked and sometimes I
missed and it looks pretty simple mistakes, but that is the game
I have to play.

 Q.  Was it the wind that involved a lot in your mistakes?

 MAGNUS LARSSON:  It was a bit gusty, but no, I can't blame the
wind, actually.

 Q.  Do you think your the kind of playing Agassi today, gives
you good example for other players how to maybe beat him?

 MAGNUS LARSSON:  If you make 50 aces and make 50 forehand winners
you can win him.  It not so easy to do.

 Q.  It wasn't only that.  You had a strategy?

 MAGNUS LARSSON:  I was playing well, but as I said, not well
enough in the end, but I mean, I am not too disappointed with
my game.

 Q.  How confident did you feel going into the tiebreaker?

 MAGNUS LARSSON:  I felt confident.  I won a lot of tiebreaks
this year and end of last year, so I thought I have a good chance
to win the tiebreaker.

 Q.  Magnus, you had several strong service games in the third
set.  You were never threatened.  In the tiebreaker when you served,
you looked like a different player.  Did you get tight in the
tiebreaker?

 MAGNUS LARSSON:  Okay, I made one doublefault, but better other
two points I made on my service great returns, so I didn't feel
tight at all. But he just returned the ball well.

 Q.  What would you think -- what is the main strength of Agassi;
maybe mentally?

 MAGNUS LARSSON:  He got a lot better mentally from three, four
years ago, and when he came to Europe a few times, he lost very
easy matches, but I think now he has got a chance to be the No.
1 and he is not giving away any points or any matches, so it is
a lot tougher to play him.  I guess, I didn't play him before
Munich, but I think he is a lot -- he is a lot tougher mentally.


 Q.  How do you think the final will turn out?

 MAGNUS LARSSON:  I don't know.  It depends who he is playing.
 But probably a good final.

 Q.  If he plays Sampras?

 MAGNUS LARSSON:  It will a good final.  I won't watch it because
I am probably on my way home or I am home practicing for Davis
Cup next week, so we will see.  I hope the best player win.

 Q.  You like to -- you play mixing your pace up a lot.  That
is the way you always play, do you think you did that too much
today?

 MAGNUS LARSSON:  No, I usually mix maybe too much, but that is
my kind of game.  So, you know, sometimes a lot of pace off the
racket and sometimes not.

 Q.  Could you tell us just the book says 6-3, but how tall
are you.

 MAGNUS LARSSON:  6-4.

 Q.  Do you have to be very concerned about trying to come
to the net against Agassi?

 MAGNUS LARSSON:  No.  I didn't.  I mean, I felt I can play well
against him even from the baseline, so he has got a good passing
shot, so didn't really have much strategy to go into the net,
so I tried to play him from the baseline.

 Q.  What did you think of the line calls today?

 MAGNUS LARSSON:  Oh, I mean, we were both hitting pretty hard
and it is really tough to say if it's in or out.  But there were
a few close calls; some were against me and some were against
Agassi.

 Q.  He was complaining about that?

 MAGNUS LARSSON:  Yeah, it was a lot of those calls, but I think
they didn't favor me more than they favored him.

           End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT