THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 22, 1995
Magnus Larsson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
GREG SHARKO: This is Magnus Larsson's first ATP Tour semi-final
here in the U.S. Previous two 1993 U.S. Open -- well, actually
the '93 U.S. Open, he was in the quarterfinals and last week in
Indian Wells the quarterfinals.

Q. Let me start with the match today. Not that any match is
easy, but you weren't really tested. Is that a plus or a minus
going into the likes of possibly Agassi or Ferreira?

MAGNUS LARSSON: I don't play longer than I need to. I think it
is a plus because my arm is pretty sore so I need to rest it as
much as possible. But I was feeling good today and a little bit
in the end it was getting tight, and he had some chances to break
back, so I was lucky to get out that easy.

Q. I know you probably don't watch the radar gun, but a lot
of your first serves were anywhere from 105 to 126. Your second
serves were in the low 80s. Is that a concern if you don't get
a high percent in with someone like Agassi, a good returner?

MAGNUS LARSSON: Of course, I have to put a lot of first serves
in, but I can also speed up my second speed quite a lot, so we
will see, but first I have to serve probably over 70% to get a
game of it, so we will see. I will go home and practice serve
tomorrow.

Q. And you are satisfied with the way things are going now
at this tournament?

MAGNUS LARSSON: Yeah, great. I had no expectations at all to go
this far. I have just been playing pretty good all week. I haven't
had any great matches. Today was a great match, but I have been
playing pretty solid. And I haven't beaten any big names, but
I mean, I am satisfied with the week and whatever happens, it
is a great tournament.

Q. Will you watch tonight's match?

MAGNUS LARSSON: I don't think so.

Q. Any preference on who you play?

MAGNUS LARSSON: Well, Agassi is the favorite and yeah, I played
him once before; then I won in Munich last year, so I am 1 to
nothing, so -- and Ferreira is a good player. I mean, Agassi will
probably have a tough match to beat Ferreira, but we will see
and I am happy to make the semifinal and whoever I play, I try
to make a good match.

Q. One last question: You are going to play in Atlanta in April.
How do you do on clay? Is that your favorite surface?

MAGNUS LARSSON: Well, I was born on clay courts. I was in semis
in France last year, so I am not that bad. I was -- two, three
years ago I was playing much better on clay court, but I picked
up my game, so it really doesn't matter where I play.

GREG SHARKO: Thanks very much.

End of FastScripts..... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT