NEWSWEEK CHAMPIONS CUP
March 10, 1995
Magnus Larsson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.   Magnus, you beat him once earlier this year. And he had
beaten you so many times before that. Obviously you know his game
well enough.  What gave you the momentum tonight to -- 
 
 MAGNUS LARSSON:  I don't know, but we played, I think eight times
before and he won all indoor matches and I won all the outdoor
matches before this match.  I thought I had a good chance, just
hang in the match and just try to break him and actually, when
I broke him in the second set I had thought I might have a good
chance to win.

 Q.   Do you have any game plans for Becker tomorrow or strategies?

 MAGNUS LARSSON:  I didn't actually know I play Becker.  I thought
I should play Ferreira.

 JOE LYNCH:  It is Becker.

 MAGNUS LARSSON:  No, I beat Becker a couple of times before as
well, so I think I have a good chance to win if I play like I
did today.  I was hitting the ball pretty well.  If he serves
well it is hard to beat him, but I think I have a chance. 

 Q.   That third set tiebreaker that could have gone either
way tonight.  What made the difference for you?

 MAGNUS LARSSON:  He made a doublefault 3-All, 4-All -- 3-All
in the tiebreaker and it is so important to get a mini break,
to break first in the tiebreaker. I was lucky he had a ball in
the net.  It bounced back on his side.  I guess I was lucky in
the tiebreaker. On the other side, I think he was lucky few times
in the first set.  So I think it was quite even, the luck part.


 Q.   You seemed to have a lot of opportunities, breakpoint
opportunities in the breaks as he did.  You seemed to convert
more.  How is it that you were able to do that throughout the
match?

 MAGNUS LARSSON:  Good question.  I guess I have got a lot of
confidence playing important points, and more time you win important
points, the better the confidence gets.  It really doesn't bother
me to serve when I am like that.

 Q.   It was really fun to watch it because you were both complimenting
each other on good points and big shots?

 MAGNUS LARSSON:  Not too many times.

 Q.   More than normal, it seemed to me.  Is that  something
more often happen being the European players or do you find that
with all players?

 MAGNUS LARSSON:  I don't find it too often, though, I know Michael
pretty well.  We played a lot of times together and we used to
have pretty good matches, so I don't know, if he is playing well
shot, I can't do anything about it, it is too good.

 Q.   Your whole team was watching and applauding; did you
see that?

 MAGNUS LARSSON:  No.  I was looking around, but I couldn't find
them.

 Q.   Even Stefan Edberg came in just to watch it. I just wanted
to ask you if that gave you confidence, but you didn't see it.

 MAGNUS LARSSON:  I didn't see it.  Sweden is such a small country
and all the players try to support each other and I think that
is important.  We have a lot -- it is a small country and the
USA there are so many good players playing all over, I don't think
you have the same team feeling as we have, so it is always good
to have Swedish support.

 Q.   A lot of press going on about Davis Cup.  Is that the
same in Sweden?

 MAGNUS LARSSON:  Yeah, but we have no problems getting players,
but I think everybody in  Sweden wants to play, so Sweden, it's
an honor to play.  As I told you, Stefan always want to play Davis
Cup.  He has been playing like so long time and always wants to
play and I think that is good for the team spirit.

 Q.   You got all the same contracts?

 MAGNUS LARSSON:  Yeah, we get the same.  It is bad, but it is
fair.

 Q.   Why is it bad?

 MAGNUS LARSSON:  Actually we don't play Davis Cup for money.
 We play for its honor, and we basically get nothing paid, but
we have so -- I think to have the same contract it is good for
the team spirit as well. No one -- every match you win is -- if
Stefan wins, it is one point and if we win doubles, it is also
one point if I win, so everybody is the same.

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT