COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
December 10, 1994
Magnus Larsson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Are you surprised that your win was so quick?  
 
MAGNUS LARSSON:  I was surprised; it went  almost too easy from 4-All in the first set, then I  broke and it -- I just played great all over the court,  and I made him miss a little bit, but I think I  provided him to do the mistakes.   
 

Q.  Do you think you played well or Martin played  badly?  
 
MAGNUS LARSSON:  Maybe both, I played really  good and Martin maybe played not so good, but I beat  him in two times before in very important matches, so I  think he felt that when he walk on the court.   
 

Q.  What does it mean to you being in the finals  compared to Davis Cup?  
 
MAGNUS LARSSON:  It is two different things.  I mean, Davis Cup, that was what we were dreaming about  when we were small, to win the Davis Cup with Swedish  Flag and everything what it means, and it is a bit hard  to compare.  Davis Cup we play almost for free, and we  don't even think about money there, and here it is so  much money, I mean, you can't just ignore it.  It is  that easy.  I think it is very hard to compare. But  Davis Cup will be much longer in people's head than  this tournament.   
 

Q.  Are you satisfied with your season or what  was your biggest --  
 
MAGNUS LARSSON:  Yeah, I didn't play good  first couple of months.  We were practicing hard, and  always looked forward to next tournament, and even if I  lost first round, we were still positive and practiced  the same, and we really believed in what we are doing.  So now in the last three months, I have been playing  just great, and it is fun -- fun that it pays off the  hard work.   
 

Q.  What about your biggest success of this  season?  
 
MAGNUS LARSSON:  Davis Cup, for sure.   
 

Q.  You make a big party in Moscow; now it is  good practice for Munich?  
 
MAGNUS LARSSON:  Yeah, seems like that.  You  win Davis Cup once in a lifetime, of course, you  celebrate.  It was late, but we could still stand up  the next morning, so it was no problem.  And I didn't play until Wednesday, so, I  mean, that was no problem.   
 

Q.  What is the most important thing you need to  be among the top five?  
 
MAGNUS LARSSON:  I am 9 right now, and  hopefully, I can get better next year, but I really  don't say I want to be 10 or 5.  I just want to keep  improving my play and if I do that, it gets better  automatically.  So I don't really look at numbers.  Of  course, I want to get higher than what I am right now.  It is going to be hard, but I think I have a few ways  to improve my game, and I still think I can play  better.  I hope.   
 

Q.  What is your hobby?  How do you relax?  
 
MAGNUS LARSSON:  I am playing a lot of golf  in the summer.  In the winter, I watch mostly ice  hockey and when I am home, go out with my friends like  a normal human being, so when I am home it doesn't  really -- I am not that much different, I mean, I play  tennis a few hours in the day and in the evenings I am  with my friends.   
 

Q.  Do you think Swedish ice hockey team will win  the championship?  
 
MAGNUS LARSSON:  Sure.   
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT