COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
December 9, 1994
Magnus Larsson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Do you believe that you have an advantage  because you are tall boy, so that you can hit direct  against Pete Sampras and players like Chang, he must  slice his service ball and can never bring this  velocity --  
 
MAGNUS LARSSON:  My service, of course, is an  advantage to be tall because I can hit more angles with  more power, less power and -- but on the baseline,  okay, I can reach more balls, but I am not as fast as  the other guys, but I don't mind being tall.   
 

Q.  Do you believe that in the future the tall  boys more and more have a chance to win any  championship?  
 
MAGNUS LARSSON:  Yeah, of course, they have  chance like Agassi won Wimbledon.   
 

Q.  I mean, if you hit a ball with 200 kilometers  per hour, average velocity for 55 meter per second  roundabout.  And the time to react is very short.  
 
MAGNUS LARSSON:  Yeah, it is.  But I still  think that if you are very fast and have good  reactions, you can win a lot of tournaments.  Look at  Sergi Bruguera, he is playing great indoor tennis now  and also Chang and Agassi, they play good indoors.  So  of course, it is good to be tall if you can use it.   
 

Q.  Did you hear Andre swear at himself?  
 
MAGNUS LARSSON:  No, I didn't hear it, but  obviously he said it.  So the umpire and the referee  heard it, so what can I say?  It was a good point for  me to get.  Breakpoint, didn't have to play it, but it  is always boring when such things happen.  But I don't  know how he said it, or whatever, it is to be grateful.   
 

Q.  He asked for a default from the umpire.  Should he be defaulted if he --  
 
MAGNUS LARSSON:  If he gets a warning that  easy, and the point penalty that easy, and then after  that he hit the ball to the umpire, of course, he  should be defaulted.  But I think it was maybe a little  tough to give him a warning and the point at once, but  then I see no reason why not to default him.  But I  mean, I didn't -- it didn't matter to me, I mean, I was  just glad to win the game and try to continue playing.   
 

Q.  You played Sampras in Antwerp and now No. 2  of the rankings here.  What made the difference?  
 
MAGNUS LARSSON:  Between Sampras and Agassi?   
 

Q.  Yes.  
 
MAGNUS LARSSON:  Sampras had aces.  And when  I had breakpoints, Agassi doesn't ace, so that is the  difference between them.  But, yeah, well, Sampras for  me outstanding No. 1.   
 

Q.  Agassi is surely not unbeatable?  
 
MAGNUS LARSSON:  No, Sampras is not  unbeatable either, but he has got advantage when he is  a breakpoint down, he really usually put good service  in.  Agassi has to play the breakpoints, and Sampras  makes the serve; so that is the big difference.   
 

Q.  What happened in the third set?  
 
MAGNUS LARSSON:  For me?   
 

Q.  Yeah, for him, with him.  
 
MAGNUS LARSSON:  I don't know.  I got off to  a good start.  Served new balls first game; took it  pretty easy and I think when I broke him to 2-Love, I  think he played a little more desperate, and I got more  confidence, and it felt pretty good.   
 

Q.  He started serving on your forehand again.  That must have helped?  
 
MAGNUS LARSSON:  I didn't mind.  I don't  really remember that, but -- no, I played really good,  and I hit a few good winners from the baseline, and he  started to miss a little bit again.   
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT