COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
December 7, 1994
Magnus Larsson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  How special was it for you to beat Stefan in  particular?  
 
MAGNUS LARSSON:  It is always nice to -- just  beating him once before, so it was -- yeah, a big  relief to beat him.  I had my chances and I have been  playing very good on practice against Stefan, so I felt  I had a chance and so it is nice to win.   
 

Q.  Did the practice in Moscow have any bearing  on this match?  Did you learn anything that you might  have known before?  
 
MAGNUS LARSSON:  No, we know each other so  well, and when we practice in Sweden -- stay in the  same town, so we know each other very well, so there is  no secrets.   
 

Q.  Are you still on a high after the Davis Cup?  
 
MAGNUS LARSSON:  A bit, yeah.  It was just a  tremendous feeling to win in Moscow, and it is -- was a  bit hard to really focus on this match, but I think it  is the same for both of us.  And it was -- yeah, it was  fun to play out there today.   
 

Q.  Stefan was saying the celebrations were quite  memorable on Sunday.  
 
MAGNUS LARSSON:  Yeah, it was.   
 

Q.  Can you tell us what happened?  
 
MAGNUS LARSSON:  No, I think it is within the  team, but we had a good time.   
 

Q.  He mentioned some dancing around the  Kremlin.  
 
MAGNUS LARSSON:  Yeah, we were dancing around  the Kremlin arena in the hall.  So this was probably  the best weekend in my life, and it is hard to beat.   
 

Q.  There are also some problems with the Swedish  Davis Cup Committee.  
 
MAGNUS LARSSON:  Yeah, I heard.   
 

Q.  They all resigned.  Can you tell us something  about it?  
 
MAGNUS LARSSON:  Yeah. I don't know very much  about it.  Just all I can say, I am on Hageskog's side  100% and I think it was a kind of misunderstanding  between the board and Hageskog, I think -- I don't know  what happened or what he said, but I am sure it will be  no problem, and I think a few members of the board will  get a new chance.   
 

Q.  I understood they wanted to take Martin Bohm  as assistant.  
 
MAGNUS LARSSON:  I mean, I like Martin very  well.  He was coach for a long time, but as -- if he is  going to be the captain, Carl-Axel must have the right  to choose his closest man and he and John-Anders were  together for so long and also Martin and Carl-Axel are  very good friends, but I think Carl-Axel -- he has got  the right -- has the right to choose his assistant  which is right.   
 

Q.  Jarryd said --  
 
MAGNUS LARSSON:  They said, at the Davis Cup  meeting, everything about this.  So the guy that spoke  out for the press said, "did he know anything."  He  just wasn't at the meeting, so it is that easy.  But I  really don't want to say.  I am not involved in it, so  I can't say much.  I think the players were on  Carl-Axel's side 100%.   
 

Q.  Did the players have any vote in it at all?  
 
MAGNUS LARSSON:  We didn't know anything  about it.  But of course, we have been to the  Federation.  We spoke with the Federation already,  December, and they said, well, John-Anders is going to  resign, and who do you want for new captain?  And most  of the players said well Carl-Axel because he has been  around for so long and Davis Cup for ten years.  So I  mean, for the players no other choice.  So I really  don't know; I mean, how things came out. But the  players, I mean, we are prepared to put up for  Carl-Axel.   
 

Q.  Can you talk a little bit about today's  match?  
 
MAGNUS LARSSON:  Yeah, well, it was, I think,  a lot of chances to break, but no one could make the  final points.  But I was serving well the first two  sets; the whole match, and I was -- yeah, first set I  was lucky to win just with one break, and second set  Edberg also had a few chances, and tiebreak I got a  matchpoint.  But he made an ace so I couldn't really  say I lost the tiebreaker.  He won it.  I think 1-All  was pretty fair.   
 

Q.  Quite a long time between your first  matchpoint and the one you won the match with.  
 
MAGNUS LARSSON:  Yeah, I mean, it is always  hard to lose a set when you have matchpoint, but he  aced and I couldn't do anything about it.  And then  Stefan had played well from the baseline.  I think he  played forehand good and also backhand.  So really  didn't have to attack so much, very close.  And 5-All  he was up 15-40, I mean, two good serves, but it felt  the whole match that I had a big chance to win.   
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT