U.S. OPEN
September 9, 1993
Magnus Larsson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Did you find it difficult to follow-up your win the other night?

MAGNUS LARSSON:  Yeah, it was different match for me when I played against Becker.  No one expected me to do well.  I played a great match.  I felt a little more pressure on my serve today.  Couldn't keep up with it.  But Wally played good.  He mixed it up very well, and didn't give me any chance to win.


Q. Is Wally playing well enough to win it?

MAGNUS LARSSON:  I mean, he won five matches and two more to go.  I don't know.  The four players in the semifinal all can win.  But personally, I think, Pete is playing very well yesterday and he would be dangerous to beat.  But Wally played well today.  He didn't let me go.


Q. What gave you the most trouble, what he did today?

MAGNUS LARSSON:  I don't know, the conditions were different.  I played night match against Boris and little bit faster when I played Boris, and windy.  I didn't get any rhythm in my serve, and also Wally, he served very smart today.  He mixed it up, slow and hard, so I mean, I wasn't close to break him.  I had two breakpoints, maybe.  Put a lot of pressure on my service game.


Q. As you prepared for this match, was it difficult to put the Becker match behind you, I mean, yesterday were people talking about it, things like that?

MAGNUS LARSSON:  Yeah, but I tried to, you know, prepare as I usually do, it was a little bit difficult. But, I mean, I don't play -- Wally played better than me and he won the match.  But a lot of people talk to me and phone calls and messages, it was great, but I don't know.  It was a little harder. I felt a little bit more pressure on myself to go out there, and I saw the chance to make the semis.  I didn't.


Q. Does that mean you were more nervous going into this match than the Becker match?

MAGNUS LARSSON:  Yeah, I was more nervous today and I felt a lot of pressure today.  So I couldn't keep up with it, really.


Q. Overall, it has been a great experience, hasn't it?

MAGNUS LARSSON:  Yeah, two weeks have been just great. No one expect me to go to the quarterfinal, it has been great two weeks.  I am happy that I won. After all, I am very satisfied.


Q. Is there something -- I came in late. Is there something about Masur that like Morgan seemed to fall against him; then when it got tight in this match --

MAGNUS LARSSON:  Wally is very experienced man.  He is 30 years old and he has been on the tour for so long, I think he is much more experienced than I am.  So I think he won a lot of points, but -- I don't know.


Q. Was it strange playing against a 30 years old man?  You don't encounter them anymore, maybe your father or somebody like that?

MAGNUS LARSSON:  I mean, he is 30 years old, but he is playing very clever and smart and I mean, you see he has been on the tour so long.  He is playing very, very clever.  He was too good for me today.


Q. You mean he was surprising you with some of the things he did today?

MAGNUS LARSSON:  He was playing-- most of all, I got confused when he served.  Boris served very hard, but he doesn't mix it up very well.  Masur, he mixed it up and I didn't get in a rhythm on the return.  So that was, I think, the main thing.  I didn't get any chances.  He was always in front, he served easy games and I have to -- I felt a lot of pressure when I serve myself to keep my service games to equal the match.


Q. Usually when you get to a Grand Slam event, beforehand, the players will, say, well there is five or six guys who can probably win this thing.  When you are at this point and a lot of the names have fallen off, is it a different mentality; is it more of a wide open feeling?

MAGNUS LARSSON:  Yeah.  I think so.  I mean, today when I beat Becker, I said this is a great chance to go to the semis.  It might have been better to play a guy that is ranked top 10 once more, because today I felt -- I am ranked 60 and he is 25, but still I had -- I felt I had a great chance to win.  So he was playing very well, he surprised me.  I didn't have a chance to get back in the match.    


End of FastScripts....


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT