US OPEN
September 6, 1998
Magnus Larsson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. What happened in the second and third sets? 
 
 MAGNUS LARSSON: I got off to a bad start. I was thinking too much about the breaker I lost. Just didn't play -- I just played a bad first service game. It just slipped away a little bit too easy. But he played a little bit better. I was a little bit too defensive in my game.  
 
Q. Were you still confident when you were down two to one? 
 
 MAGNUS LARSSON: I mean, I'd rather be up two to one. I still felt I had a pretty good shot to win the match.  
 
Q. How did you regroup and get the game back? 
 
 MAGNUS LARSSON: I started to serve a little bit better in the fourth and fifth set. I think that was the key. I just tried to stay with him. Got off to an early break in the fourth. I got my momentum back a little bit. He started to miss a few more shots. I got off to a good start in the fourth. That was really the key, I think.  
 
Q. Did the fact that he had a huge contingent of fans affect your mind? 
 
 MAGNUS LARSSON: No. It was a great atmosphere out there. He had some fans. I had some fans. It was like a soccer match in the beginning of the fifth set. A really great crowd. That helps.  
 
Q. You seem remarkably sedate. You just knocked out the No. 2 seed, No. 2 ranked player in the world. You're remarkably sedate. Can you tell us how you're really feeling after that? 
 
 MAGNUS LARSSON: Doesn't really matter if it's No. 1 or No. 10. I've beaten him before. You know, he's still Marcelo Rios, even if it's No. 1 or No. 2. He's not unbeatable. We had some good fights before. I won some, lost some. Just don't have to think about the rankings, just go out there and play.  
 
Q. Are you capable of better tennis than what we saw tonight? 
 
 MAGNUS LARSSON: It was a bit gusty. It was a little bit windy down there. Every now and then there was a lot of errors. But I was hitting the ball well. In the end I also served well, which I feel I didn't do the first three sets. In the end I made some aces.  
 
Q. You seem to have a bit of trouble returning his serve. I know you can handle Pete Sampras' serve. What does he have on it? 
 
 MAGNUS LARSSON: He hits lefty, with the wrong arm. That's all. He doesn't serve that hard maybe. He has a pretty good placement on it. Usually I don't return lefties so good. Just try to put it back in the court. I don't think I returned worse than normal. It was okay.  
 
Q. Now will you play your next opponent. Do you know him, Gross? 
 
 MAGNUS LARSSON: I haven't seen him before. I haven't played him. It will be a good experience. It's a good draw in the fourth round. Both me and Oliver are probably looking forward to that match. One of us going to go to the quarters. We're both, I think, pretty happy with that.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT