DAVIS CUP - SWEDEN vs USA
November 28, 1997
Magnus Larsson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. How do you feel about the win generally, and is it disappointing to win somewhat by default? 
 
 MAGNUS LARSSON: Well, the most important thing is that we won the match. Of course, it's disappointing the way it ended. I think the whole Swedish team will take it. We move onto an exciting Saturday. It would be much nicer to win a five-set match, closer match, but this is the way it is. Nothing we can do about it.  
 
Q. Magnus, at what point, did you sense that Pete was hurt and no longer in possession of the same kind of mobility he showed in the first set? 
 
 MAGNUS LARSSON: Well, he took a timeout. After that, he really didn't move 100 percent. Didn't serve a hundred percent. It got worse. So I felt at the end of the second, if I win the second set, that I would probably win the game. But it's still hard to play. You don't know if he's going to play or not. I just try to be focused. The coach and the bench behind me, they really told me like, "Don't bother about him, just try to stay focused and go on." It was to play like normal.  
 
Q. Did you know that he had some kind of injury? Was it a surprise for you? 
 
 MAGNUS LARSSON: No, it was surprising. I mean, if he had injury before the match, I don't see a reason why he should go on court to play one or two tough five-setters. I don't know what happened or when it happened.  
 
Q. So, Coach, how are you looking at the Davis Cup right now? Do you think this is going to end up just being a three-game win, three-match win for Sweden? You have the doubles tomorrow, Nicklas and Jonas playing doubles tomorrow. Do you think this is going to go three matches or a tough year like last year? 
 
 CAPTAIN HAGESKOG: I think it's going to be a tough fight. But of course it looks easier when we are 2-O after Friday.  
 
Q. I'm going to mispronounce your city again, as it's been mispronounced so many times. Goteborg, am I close? 
 
 CAPTAIN HAGESKOG: That's good.  
 
Q. Coach, is there some sort of mystique about this place? You've won twice, you're now ahead 2-0. Sampras has defaulted by reason of injury. Do you feel particularly comfortable here? 
 
 CAPTAIN HAGESKOG: No. But I feel particularly lucky (laughter). Of course, we feel comfortable here. We have great memories. It's a nice arena, with a full crowd, 11,000 people. Of course, it's nice to be here and play the final.  
 
End of FastScripts.... 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT