AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 14, 2017
Agniezska Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Quick turnaround from Sydney over to here.  How are you feeling with all of the matches in your body through the first two weeks of the season?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, to be honest, I feel very good.  I think much better than in China after the first couple matches.  Of course, losing the match rhythm, your body not used to the matches last two months...   
I feel good.  Of course, losing finals always disappointing.  But still a good week.  Couple great matches against top players.  So hoping I can play the same good tennis here in Melbourne.   
 Q.  Your opponent in round one is a former world No. 31.  She actually beat you in your last meeting in the French Open.  What was your reaction when you saw she was your first-round opponent?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, well, it's a tough draw for sure.  We played so many times.  Obviously in Paris the last time, but we had a lot of good three-set matches I think on every surface.   
Well, the draw is the draw.  We'll see after the match.   
 Q.  Your performance in Sydney, you said yourself you couldn't have played any better.  You must be pretty confident heading in.  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yeah, I'm very confident.  I really hope I can play the same tennis, even the tennis I played in the final.   
Well, of course, every tournament is different story.  Especially in the tough first round.  Well, I still have two days to practice here, adjust to surface and conditions.  We'll see.   
 Q.  Pironkova can be a tricky opponent.  Does it help you kind of having the string of wins and the matches?  It's almost like you're mid tournament form instead of going in completely cold.  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yeah, for sure, tournament like Sydney is helping a lot.  Playing pretty much two, three days later against a good player for sure is better than playing as a first match.   
So, like you said, Pironkova is a very tricky opponent.  I'm expecting everything from her side.  For sure it's going to be a lot of running.  I'm going to really have to work on each point.   
 Q.  Have you had a chance to hit on these courts yet?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Not yet.  I just arrived like two hours ago.   
 Q.  With the heat in Sydney, it was a hot week there, how does that make you feel heading into the tournament?  Does that make you feel more confident with the conditions?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I was the lucky one playing in the evenings.  But it was still very humid and hot.  But, yes, well, that was for sure a very good warmup before here.  I know it's going to be hot as well here next week.   
We'll see the schedule.  Of course, playing second or third match isn't going to be easy.   
 Q.  Most people talk about your chances of winning Wimbledon, but you've had good success here in the past, semifinals last year.  What helps you in your game here at Melbourne Park?  What has been the challenge of making the final here?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, every Grand Slam is different.  We can see even different top seeds, different opponents.   
What is helping?  I really feel good on this center court.  I like to play here.  I like Australia.  I've been always playing good tennis here.  Two semis.  Of course, that's always very close till the end.  Hopefully I can do one step forward and play seven matches here.   
 Q.  Does Kerber and everything she did last year play on your mind at all in terms of being a player of that generation, being able to have that very unexpected breakthrough?  Do you think of that at all?  Is it a separate thing?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I think this is big inspiration for everyone.  Winning two Grand Slams the same year, other couple big finals.  That's for sure something amazing.  She really played unbelievable tennis whole season.  She just proved that she can do it.  I mean, two Grand Slams just from pretty much nowhere.   
But, well, I think in moments that's going to happen.  I think she just proved that last year, that she can really play great tennis, beating even Serena in the final.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT