NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 24, 2012
Rajon Rondo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What have been your impressions of Lin?  
RAJON RONDO:   He's worked hard.   A lot of people doubt him.   I think he's a product of hard work, and now it's paying off.   He seems like a pretty humble guy.   He seems like a good guy.   He's going to be here for a long time.   
   
 Q.   Sitting here right now, has this kind of been the craziest three days you've had in the league?  
RAJON RONDO:   Yeah, it's been jam packed, really, my schedule.   I've changed my schedule completely.   I didn't expect to be here.   I actually found out on my birthday.   It was a good birthday present.   I had to go back home and pack and I had to try to get a ticket situation going and a hotel room, who was coming, who wasn't coming.   But I'm glad I'm here, and this has been the quietest All‑Star I've had as far as people coming in.   I've usually had about 20 people come in, but now it's about five or six.  
   
 Q.   For the Skills Competition tomorrow night, I know Markieff lives here and Keyon lives in Florida.   Do you expect those guys to come out and support you?  
RAJON RONDO:   Yeah, I expect them to be there.   
   
 Q.   Being a competitive guy and having been to The Finals, what do you think of tying the home‑court advantage to the result of the All‑Star Game?  
RAJON RONDO:   No, I don't think so.   I think it's good the way we have it.   You can't base it off the All‑Star Game.  
   
 Q.   What's the toughest one‑on‑one match‑up in the league right now?  
RAJON RONDO:   Just any guard?   
   
 Q.   Yeah, anyone when you're watching, one‑on‑one.   
RAJON RONDO:   Probably Durant.  
   
 Q.   Why so?  
RAJON RONDO:   He's seven feet tall and moves quickly, and then he can draw the foul, then he shoots again.   He's got a good first step.   
   
 Q.   Who's the most clutch guy out there in the league right now?  
RAJON RONDO:   I don't know.   I might be biased, but Ray Allen, Paul Pierce.   If you need a guy to create a shot, Paul; if you need a guy to make a shot, Ray.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT