NBA FINALS: CELTIC v LAKERS
June 15, 2010
Rajon Rondo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 Q. From your perspective, how did the Celtics' chemistry change when Perkins got injured? 
 RAJON RONDO: I think we were a little bit focused on if Perk was going to come back instead of just continuing to play. As soon as halftime came, you know, we all just ran to the locker room and to the training room to see how he was feeling and if he was okay. Our energy went down a little bit, but for the most part it's not an excuse. We just came out and didn't have it.

 Q. How did the dynamics of the team change when he got injured? 
 RAJON RONDO: Perk is our enforcer. He's our biggest body we have to throw out there on Bynum. He clears the paint up for us. He does a lot of intangibles. He's a great shot blocker, rebounder, and he's the anchor of our defense. 

 Q. How does the way you guys lost this game affect your mindset going into the next one? And if Kendrick is not close to 100 percent, how does that affect the match-up?
 RAJON RONDO: That's why we have a lot of guys throughout the roster. We have Big Baby and Rasheed. Other guys have to step up. We've had injuries before all season and guys have stepped up. But I'm sure they'll be up for the challenge and ready to play.

 Q. But the way this game went you guys were never really in it. Does that matter at all?
 RAJON RONDO: To me the game is over. We have one game, they have one game; all or nothing. This is in the past. 

 Q. Perk is such a big part of rebounding, as well. How did that affect the rest of the game with you guys rebounding?
 RAJON RONDO: We obviously didn't. At halftime I think it was 30-12. I don't know what the final rebounding was, 52-39. But from the start they had an advantage, and obviously the team that has won the rebounds was won the game.

 Q. How out of character is that for your team?
 RAJON RONDO: That rebound number? Seems like it's every other game this series. 
 Like I said, it's one game, so we definitely have to get the job done the next game. 

 Q. I know you said this game is over with, move on, but are there any positives you can take from this game to help fuel the fire for Game 7?
 RAJON RONDO: We've got to watch film and try to get some positives. Obviously we're not down. We're not hanging our heads. It's where we want to be, 3-3, one game left. We're going to go home and watch the film, try to see what we do to make ourselves better and just play with more energy. 

 Q. Talk about the injury to yourself when you got hit with the elbow by Artest. And just talk about, like you said, everything on the line on Thursday night and what you guys are going to have to do. 
 RAJON RONDO: Well, the injury by Artest, he elbowed me in my chin. I don't think it was intentional, but it was definitely a foul, one of the fouls that wasn't called. But that's how it goes. You have to still continue to play the game. It didn't affect the way I tried to play. I didn't play much more after. The game was over obviously. 
 As far as going into Game 7, we just have to bring it. Now our backs are against the wall. I think they played like that tonight, and we didn't. But we have to come back. This is a little bump or hiccup for us, but we have to come back and still fight and try to get a win. 

 Q. Game 5, you guys on fire from the outside, shot 56 percent; tonight 33 percent. What did the Lakers do tonight in Game 6 that they did not do in Game 5? 
 RAJON RONDO: A little bit of both. We missed some shots. Rasheed had a couple looks that he usually makes. We didn't make shots tonight. Give them credit. They challenged our shots, but for the most part, I seen for myself, I missed a couple easy looks that I usually make. We didn't play well together as a team tonight, we didn't get in any rhythm on the offensive end. But we gave up 89 points or whatever points we gave up on the offensive end, even though they didn't shoot a great percentage. But the second-chance points killed us. 

 Q. Based on how close the series has been and how tight it's been between these two teams, are you surprised at all that it's going to take seven to decide a winner?
 RAJON RONDO: No. You know, it's Lakers-Celtics, the biggest rivalry in NBA basketball, seven games. It is what it is. 

 Q. It looks like with every game the physicality is more and more of an issue, the games are more physical, even brutal at some point. What do you expect from Game 7? To what level it can go? 
 RAJON RONDO: More technical fouls maybe. It's going to be a physical game. Everybody is going to give all they have. I don't know, it's hard to determine what's going to happen. But I'm looking forward to it, and I'm sure our other guys are looking forward to the challenge, and it should be a good match. Tonight the Lakers from jump to start, they dominated the game, and I'm pretty sure we'll try to get a different outcome next game, Game 7. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT