NBA FINALS: CELTIC v LAKERS
June 9, 2010
Rajon Rondo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Game 1 they did a better job than in Game 2 of containing your drives. Can you talk about what they did last night. Your penetration to the basket, having somebody come back and either pass it out or take a shot, with their length.  
 RAJON RONDO: They just played good defense.  
  
  Q. What's the mindset of the team tomorrow?  
 RAJON RONDO: I expect to win. That's what we want, but we have to play the game.  
  
  Q. How much do you feel for a guy like Ray having a tough night like last night?  
 RAJON RONDO: He's not the only one. I know myself, I didn't sleep well, either. It happens. Ray has been in the league so long, he's probably had not as bad shooting nights, but it happens, it's part of the game, and he'll be fine. He's a veteran guy. He can get through it.  
  
  Q. How would you assess the mood of the team after the game, frustrated, angry? How would you define it?  
 RAJON RONDO: Every loss, you're never happy after a loss. We felt the same as after Game 1.  
  
  Q. Tony was saying at halftime Doc was pretty animated, and it seemed to work, you guys made your comeback. Did you not have the mindset that you wanted to have coming in here for a Game 3 in your opinion?  
 RAJON RONDO: No, I think we did. We just got stagnant on the offensive end. We didn't move the ball, and when they made a 26-5 run, it's tough. We started the game with great energy, but we needed to continue to have the focus throughout the first and second quarter.  
  
  Q. After Game 1 Ray had a great practice, he was putting up shots, a laser-like focus. Do you expect that today and going into tomorrow?  
 RAJON RONDO: I'm sure he'll get it done. I mean, Ray had focus last game. He just missed shots. You're not going to make every shot.  
 It's funny, Ray, he went, I guess, 0 for 13, but he's still one of the best shooters in the game. It just happens. It's part of the game, and it went down like that.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT