NBA FINALS: CELTIC v LAKERS
June 8, 2010
Rajon Rondo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 Q. Talk about the defense that they came at you with tonight, the Lakers. And talk about Fisher's play and KG's play, too. 
 RAJON RONDO: They played great team defense. They got back in transition tonight. We started off with a quick run, but after that they seemed to do pretty good job of getting back in transition. Fisher played extremely well tonight. I think he was the key to their win tonight and KG finally got it going. That's a good sign. We've got to look towards Game 4. 

 Q. The way of Rondo in Game 2, you're in full effect. Tonight kind of slowed down numbers, were not as prolific. What did the Lakers do tonight that they did not do in Game 2 to slow you down personally?
 RAJON RONDO: I don't know. I mean, I wasn't as aggressive, I guess, tonight. But I was trying to get my teammates the ball. You've got to pick and choose when I want to be aggressive, and try to take over the game by scoring, but tonight I tried to get our teammates involved. We still stood a chance for the game. I'm not going to play great or have a triple-double every night. KG stepped up tonight, and we're going to try to continue to get him the ball. 

 Q. Doc was just in here, and he said it's one of those nights for Ray, you have a great night like the other night and it turned out like this tonight. Talk about when you don't have him hitting those threes. 
 RAJON RONDO: It's tough. Ray is one of our go-to guys, so we're never going to lose confidence and stop going to him even if he's 0 to are 20. He usually comes through in the clutch, but tonight was one of those nights. He didn't have it. Other guys had to step up. Tony did a great job defensively again. So we just have to come from other areas. 

 Q. What is the momentum for your team now, now that you guys have lost this game? The momentum has shifted to the Lakers. What do you have to do to pick it up and regain it?
 RAJON RONDO: I think we've got to do a better job of closing quarters and closing the game. I think we made -- all five guys out there made a mistake when the score was 84-80 and Fisher made a great play. We didn't get back in transition. That play, I think, simply won the game. He had a couple other big plays where he came off the screen with Kobe and hit a couple big shots, but that big play sealed the deal.

 Q. Were you guys intent on letting someone else beat you besides Kobe because Kobe typically closes out the game in that fashion but you guys left Fisher open. Was that what you guys decided to do?
 RAJON RONDO: No, that wasn't a decision, no. It just happened. He made plays. Our pick-and-roll coverage wasn't what it was supposed to be, and he capitalized on it. 

 Q. What did you think about Derek Fisher's performance at the end of the game?
 RAJON RONDO: He played big. Can't say enough. He definitely -- like I said, I think he pretty much won the game. Kobe and the other guys, kept them in it throughout the game, but when we made our run, he seemed to have answers every time. 

 Q. It just seems every game between the Celtics and Lakers, Lakers and Celtics is unique and singular. How do you project Game 4 to be because it's hard to really get a beat on each one? 
 RAJON RONDO: I don't know how to answer that question. You know, I think as a team we're just going to come out and play with a lot of energy, have a great focus. I think we lost our composure tonight in a couple possessions and that hurt us. You can't really write the story until the next game. You've just got to see for yourself. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT