NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CELTICS v MAGIC
May 18, 2010
Rajon Rondo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Boston Celtics 95
  Orlando Magic 92 
   
  Q. You look at this team two years ago when you won a championship and it was all about the Big Three. Now you're the quarterback of the team. Your game has improved exponentially as one of the best point guards in the NBA. What would you say is the biggest difference in your game from two years from now?   
 RAJON RONDO: Just continuing to grow. The Big Three made a big example and so far it pays off. Every day after practice I'm getting extra shots off. I'm just continuing to try to work hard. Growing as a leader. I'm maturing each year. Doc has been on me very hard these last few years. He has a lot to do with my development as well.   
  
  Q. Rajon, talk about going into tonight's game for yourself. I know offensively on Sunday, and also going against Jameer, someone kind of your size, too.   
 RAJON RONDO: My mindset was defensive mindset. I gave up 20 points to Jameer. He shot 8 for 18 last game. I just wanted tonight to make him take every shot, contest his shot. He got a couple easy looks tonight. Other than that, I think did I a great job on him.   
 I know he's going come out aggressive in Game 3. It's a long series. We're going to have our ups and downs, him and myself. Offensively for me tonight I tried to be aggressive. In transition we got some stops early. I was able to attack the rim. Guys made great passes. I was doing a great job of covering without the ball. It opened up for me in my lanes, I got to the line tonight. I didn't get to the free-throw line at all the last game. I got some calls tonight. I was able to do a great job on the offensive end tonight.   
  
  Q. Rajon, you always talk about looking at the second wave of defenders. How much does Dwight impact that when you drive? And were you able to come up with some better or more effective counters in Game 2 as opposed to Game 1?   
 RAJON RONDO: I think it was a credit to our bigs. Our bigs were in the right spot tonight. When Dwight did come, I was able to dish off to Baby, Kevin, Perk or Rasheed for lay-ups. I tried to mix it up as much as possible. A couple of floaters, he changed my shot. Other than that, I'm going to make him change his shot. He blocks shots best. At the end of the day I'm going to still be aggressive.   
  
  Q. You talked about going 45 minutes and you really can't pace yourself too much out there. How are you holding up?   
 RAJON RONDO: Paul played great post tonight. I played 45 minutes. Paul had a lot of isos tonight and he was very efficient tonight. So on the offensive end of the floor, I wasn't always making the play. Kevin made the plays, Ray Allen made plays as well. I don't want to take a night off on the defensive end. Offensively I didn't have to do as much as it may seem.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT