NBA FINALS: LAKERS v CELTICS
June 7, 2008
Rajon Rondo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. What's the definition of "Rondo"?
 RAJON RONDO: It's actually, I think, three different definitions, and it has something to do with him stealing the ball, just different aspects of the in between, moving between the objects. Like I said, it's three different commercials and there's three different definitions, so you'll just have to see for yourself.

 Q. Has it been catching on?
 RAJON RONDO: I think so. I mean, they even have a ringtone, I think.

 Q. Is that anything like what Pat Riley did?
 RAJON RONDO: I don't know. I'm not sure yet. I'm just trying to focus at this time on just winning.

 Q. Some of the commentary before the series started was that your coaching staff was kind of out of its league going against these guys. After Game 1, people have said it's amazing what a fine staff you've got and how well prepared those guys were. Do you have a sense that your coaching staff is really a whole lot better than people think and you guys are really well prepared to contend going on?
 RAJON RONDO: Definitely because we wouldn't have got this far. It's a combination of coaches and players. We have to do our job on the court and they do their job well in having us prepared. Like I said, we can't just go out there and play every night because we're not prepared. Our coaches don't get enough credit because we have the Big Three and we have a very talented team, but you still have to have the coaching side together and execute the offense. Like I said, everybody has to be on the same page, and they do a great job of preparing us as a team.

 Q. They wanted to keep you out of that lane in Game 1 and they weren't able to do that.
 RAJON RONDO: Like I said, they'll make adjustments. They've been playing this game a long time and they have some of the best coaches in the league, so like I said, they'll make adjustments. I'm still going to try to be aggressive.
 I'm just going to do what I've been doing all year, team has been getting me shots, I need to stay aggressive and take those shots, and I think I'll be successful. As long as I stay aggressive, we'll be successful.

 Q. Has their defense bothered you in the paint?
 RAJON RONDO: Not really. They haven't bothered me in the paint, between me and Perk. They send different guys at different times, Fisher, but like I said, it wasn't any different. Perk and I, we've been through this the entire year. Like I said, we have to stay aggressive, and we're learning from it and we'll continue growing from it.





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT