NBA FINALS: LAKERS v CELTICS
June 4, 2008
Rajon Rondo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. How much higher can you jump than you do on your jump shot? Do you think you jump about halfway?
 RAJON RONDO: About halfway. I'd say about halfway.

 Q. That's unusual in this league. 
 RAJON RONDO: It is, yeah.

 Q. But it's given you more force behind the shots?
 RAJON RONDO: Yeah, definitely. When you get tired, your legs go, but just practice having perfect form. That's what you condition for.

 Q. You're a quick jumper, aren't you?
 RAJON RONDO: Right, quick jumper.

 Q. When did this all happen with Ray? When did he have this discussion with you?
 RAJON RONDO: It was like a one-minute discussion, actually. He told me he didn't want to change anything in my mechanics, just to stay consistent and jump every time in your shot.

 Q. Was this back in the summer?
 RAJON RONDO: Back in the summer, yeah, back to when we first started, when the trade happened. He came in a couple weeks afterwards and got workouts in.

 Q. What do you make of all this, this massive media? It's not quite Super Bowl media, but is this kind of a trip?
 RAJON RONDO: It doesn't bother me. This is The Finals. It's what I expect, maybe more. But it's part of the game.

 Q. Is it starting to set in a little bit that this is the NBA Finals?
 RAJON RONDO: Not really. I'm just trying to look at it as the most important game of my life right now, but I don't want to put too much emphasis on it, not trying to get nervous or trying to do too much. Like I said, just trying to stay consistent and keep growing as a player. 

 Q. You talked about learning on the job week to week, month to month, game to game. What have you learned about playoff basketball in the short time you've been in it? 
 RAJON RONDO: There's a lot of ups and downs, trying to stay consistent, especially on the road, having more mental focus. It's very tough on the road. Like a lot of teams are struggling. We haven't won too many games in a row, but we won the most important road game of the year the other night. It's basically staying focused and being consistent.

 Q. How do you do that?
 RAJON RONDO: Getting your proper rest, eating the right foods and taking care of your body, icing and getting a lot of treatment. 

 Q. The men and women fighting in Afghanistan and Iraq are going to be watching. Could you give a message of support to them? They're going to be watching these games over there. 
 RAJON RONDO: Thanks for supporting us and continuing to watch the NBA Finals, and good luck to you guys over there. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT