NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PISTONS v CELTICS
May 25, 2008
Rajon Rondo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Game 3 last night, 11-0 run. How important are those quick starts for you?  
 RAJON RONDO: Very important as a team. They get our confidence early. The game is about runs, so teams are going to make those, but if you get on an 11-0 run that's a big cushion obviously.  
  
  Q. Now, you get out, you get Game 3, first game in Detroit. Any concern about a let-down in Game 4?  
 RAJON RONDO: Not really. It's too big of a series. It's either win or go home, so you know you don't want to go back to the house with a loss. So we definitely want to try to take advantage of getting another win here on the road.  
  
  Q. Can you tell whether Chauncey is 100 percent?  
 RAJON RONDO: I don't believe Chauncey is 100 percent. Like I said yesterday, I don't think nobody in the postseason right now is 100 percent. We're all getting banged up. He had a muscle, an injury with his hamstring, and it's unfortunate, but the guy is playing all the time. Chauncey is a great player. He still continued to play well. Game 2 he had 19 points, seven assists. He knows how to get the job done. He's a veteran point guard and he's a great player.   
  
  Q. You were at the podium for the first time ever on the road, was that pretty cool? Doc, as he was walking in said, Rajon and Perk, if you two guys are at the table that's a pretty good sign. What do you think about that?  
 RAJON RONDO: I guess it's a good sign. I guess more people want to hear what we got to say.  
  
  Q. It's a good sign because it means that you guys are spreading things around, and if you guys are spreading it around, it's hard to stop you?  
 RAJON RONDO: Yeah, I think me and Perk have become a factor throughout the game, and it's definitely tough for the team to sag off and chop off the both of us if we're out making plays.  
  
  Q. Obviously the team got its first playoff win this season. Your first playoff win in your career on the road, do you take something from that?  
 RAJON RONDO: I did and I didn't. Hopefully that won't be our last postseason win. In the fourth quarter guys stepped up and made shots. They made their run. We had our composure and continued to make ours, as well.  
  
  Q. Did you feel there was a giant monkey on your backs as one of the younger guys?  
 RAJON RONDO: I didn't feel it. Like I said, my mindset going into the game was we're zero and zero, new series, new team we're facing, and we tried to get the win on the road, and that's how we approached the game.  
  
  Q. How important was it for you and Posey, Perk, yourself, all you guys, Sam, as well, played well. You guys contributed along with the Big Three. How important was it to contribute to that?  
 RAJON RONDO: It had a lot to do with it, I believe, because in Game 2 I think the Big Three had way over the majority of our points. They need support, as well, with a supporting cast. So we have to step up at times, especially in the postseason.  
  
  Q. What did Doc and some of the older players talk about? Because you did come up to try to get two, it's not just about getting one. You don't want to get fat and happy.   
 RAJON RONDO: Definitely. We just spent an hour in film session showing that we definitely don't want to settle after last night's win. We want to continue to get better and just continue to execute and make adjustments, and I'm sure they're going to make adjustments, as well.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT