NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CELTICS v HEAT
June 7, 2012
Rajon Rondo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Miami Heat - 98
  Boston Celtics - 79 
  
RAJON RONDO:   LeBron was comfortable all night.   We didn't get into his airspace.   We have to play that as a team collectively.   I have to do better as far as taking care of the ball, getting into my sets.   I have to make it harder for him.   It was too easy.   
   
 Q.   Rajon, Ray said that after the game guys were angry.   Can you describe what it was that made you guys angry?   
RAJON RONDO:   I wasn't angry.   They won one game.   Now we have to go down and go to Miami and win a game.   We done it before.   Put this game in the past, and we have to look forward and not let this linger on too long.   I'm fine.   I'm ready to get going and play a Game 7.   
   
 Q.   When you miss an opportunity to close a team like this out on a place where you've beaten them 15 out of 16 times, what is that like for you guys?   
RAJON RONDO:   This is just one game, regardless of‑‑ you can't say 15 out of 16.   Each year there's different guys in lineups.   Maybe in the big three era we beat them pretty good here.   It's still a basketball game at the end of the day, no matter where each team plays.   We missed opportunities tonight.   Regardless of where we played, it's going to be a battle, it's going to be a fight.   We're very confident we can go down to Miami and get a win.   
   
 Q.   It seemed like at the end of the second quarter and the third quarter you guys were a couple of possessions from cutting it to double digits and just a couple of positive possessions and make it a game.   What kind of happened?   It seems like things got disheveled.   
RAJON RONDO:   We missed some easy shots.   We turned the ball over a couple of times.   Every time we tried to get over the hump, we just didn't.   We didn't execute, missed easy bunnies and they went down and scored.   Instead of it going down to eight, it went back up to 15.   Give them credit.   They did a great job of closing out each quarter.   They started the game off well.   
   
 Q.   What was your reaction to the Celtics fans' chant at the end of the game?   
RAJON RONDO:   It was unbelievable.   We've always said this, but that just shows we have the best fans in sports.   Not just basketball.   A lot of them stayed, and the chant was unbelievable.   It was a crazy feeling when you're down 20.   
   
 Q.   Was that the best you've ever seen LeBron play during your time in the league?   
RAJON RONDO:   From a scoring aspect, maybe.   I've seen him put up some great numbers.   Not just offensively, but doing a lot of other things.   Intangibles.   Tonight he shot very efficient.   But I don't base a great performance on just shooting.   He's had a lot of games where he's had triple‑doubles, chase‑down blocks.   He's a great player.   
   
 Q.   Just 14 assists for you guys tonight.   You guys have had a low number a couple of times this series.   Do you feel the ball is not moving around enough for this team right now?   
RAJON RONDO:   No.   You can't just look at a stat sheet and say that we only had 14 and say we didn't move the ball.   Guys missed shots.   When you shoot the ball well, if you make a couple of lay‑ups, that's more assists.   So we got a lot of pindown actions coming off a floppy, guys catch and shoot the ball.   We missed those opportunities tonight.   We moved the ball well.   We just didn't put the ball in the hole.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT