THE MCGLADREY CLASSIC
October 21, 2012
Tom Gainey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Tommy, what a day.   After three days where you were kind of treading water, what did you find?  
TOMMY GAINEY:   Well, I found a hot putter is what I found.   You know, I really putted pretty well all week, but today I just ‑‑ I mean everything clicked, man.   I mean I hit the driver, I hit the driver really good.   I hit the irons really good.  
I just made some putts.   I mean I made ‑‑ I don't know, like maybe on No. 3, I think it was maybe 35 feet, made that one and then made a couple other putts.   That chip‑in on 15, I thought that was pretty awesome.  
   
 Q.   Is that when you got it in your head, you know, maybe something special could happen because I know your mind works pretty quick.   You can do the math.   
TOMMY GAINEY:   Oh, no doubt.   Kind of, I think.   I had a chance at the end when that went in for an eagle I had a chance for the golf tournament.   But you know what, you got Jim Furyk out there, you got David Toms out there, you got Davis Love, III out there.   You got so many future Hall‑of‑Famers and Hall‑of‑Famers that's chasing me now, which I'm feeling pretty good about my position, but still, I mean anything can happen.  
   
 Q.   You've played an awful lot of rounds of golf at an awful lot of golf courses.   Is this the best round of golf you've ever played?  
TOMMY GAINEY:   You know, I've shot 59 before, but I tell you what, this 60 in tournament play and tournament conditions on a golf course that's pretty hard, I'm having it.   I'm loving it.  
   
 Q.   I hope we're talking to you later on.   Take care, partner.   
TOMMY GAINEY:   Thank you.   
   
 Q.   Tommy, quite a day out there.   Just get your comments, what it felt like.   
TOMMY GAINEY:   Well, it felt really good, but the last couple of holes I started getting a little nervous, you know, because I didn't realize I was 10‑under until I looked at the board after that eagle.   I think I looked at the board, what, 17, I think.   And then it had 10‑under and I was in first place.   And you know.  
But I found a hot putter today.   I mean 24 putts today, I made eight birdies and an eagle.   So I'm real happy with the way it ended up today.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT