WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 3, 2012
Tom Gainey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Do you want to just talk about your round and the highlights? 
TOMMY GAINEY:   Well, you know, I've struggled this year with injuries and everything else.   Now that I'm healthy, I'm starting to hit the ball better, starting to swing at it better, and I had a problem getting off to a slow start.   But today I got off to a fast start, and I was able to keep it going.   I three‑putted 18, which really didn't like.   That kind of ticked me off a little bit, but I was able to make that 15‑footer on 9 for a birdie.   So lunch is going to go down a little better right now. 

Q.   How do you feel going into tomorrow? 
TOMMY GAINEY:   I feel really good.   You know, I'm looking forward to it now.   I'm healthy and I'm starting to swing at it better.   I'm starting to hit the ball like I know I can, and I'm just making putts now.   When you make putts, you can shoot low numbers, and I feel like a low number is on the horizon for me.

Q.   You have a pretty good feel for this course.   What is it about the course that you like?
TOMMY GAINEY:   It's just the setup because I'm a firm believer, I think this course is a ball striker's paradise.   If you hit the ball good here, you can score.   You put yourself in all the right positions, you can have a lot of opportunities to make birdie, and I did that today. 

Q.   Can you kind of go through the health issues you've faced this year? 
TOMMY GAINEY:   Oh, my God.   Well, let's start in January.   My elbow has been bothering me since last year.   But I didn't think it was that big of a problem.   I didn't think it was that bad of a problem, either, until I went to the doctor in New Orleans, and he checked it out, and it was not good. 

Q.   New Orleans as in last week?
TOMMY GAINEY:   Last week.   So it's like a four‑month thing.   And then I've had‑‑ early this year, probably about two months ago, I had a wrist problem.   I had a pulling on my tendon, and it just felt like my wrist was broke.

Q.   Did you have to change your swing?
TOMMY GAINEY:   I think my body corrected.   The pain in my elbow and my wrist, I think the body just corrected to take some pressure off it.   But it's the nature of the beast out here, man.   You've got to play through pain.   I'm just one of the few ones that had a bad year so far.

Q.   Are you still playing through the pain?
TOMMY GAINEY:   Right now my elbow feels really good.   I know I've still got to be very cautious of it because I know it could turn into a serious problem, and I'm just trying to stick it out.   But I think it's good now.   I've just got to take care of it, do more treatment and ice it and give it some more rest, something I haven't done all year.

Q.   What was the diagnosis? 
TOMMY GAINEY:   He gave me a shot of cortisone in the top of my elbow, and he said that it was a lot of wear and tear, just overusage and kind of a lot of micro‑tears in the tissue or whatever on the top of my elbow.   He said four words, and I don't know how to say it.   In this language, the common language, he said it was tennis elbow, so that's never good when you're a golfer and you say, well, it's tennis elbow.   That means rest and a lot of treatment. 

Q.   Talk about coming back to play in the Carolinas with your background. 
TOMMY GAINEY:   Yeah, this is almost home.   Actually you could say it's pretty much home for me.   It's like two hours from my house.   I figure this could be a home game, and I'm definitely looking forward to continuing tomorrow and the weekend. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT