WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 20, 2011
Tom Gainey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Grinding it out around there. Talk about the day a little bit.  
 TOMMY GAINEY: Yeah. I guess one word sums it up, "frustrating". I hit it terrible to start with. That little delay we had, I think kind of helped me out a little bit.   
 I got the driver straightened out coming back out. Started hitting it better, starting hitting some fairways. And then I started hitting just a couple of bad shots here and there and, you know, when you hit a bad shot on 15 over there, on that par 5 and you make par, I mean you lose at least a shot to the field and as you seen Webb make eagle. So I mean I lost two to him.  
 So, I'm not real happy with -- it's better but it's not where I want it to be right now.  
  
  Q. The closing part, the up and down there got to make you a little happy.   
 TOMMY GAINEY: It will make dinner taste better but that's about it.  
  
  Q. Three days in and everyday you come here and told us you're hitting the ball like crap and you're still in the mix. Is there any kind of things you can take from that?  
 TOMMY GAINEY: Yeah. That's the only positive thing that I can take it right now, I still have a chance to win the golf course. That's all you can ask for teeing it up from Round 1 to Round 4.   
 That's what I'm going to take tonight and kind of chill-out and relax and try to get refocused and tomorrow, tomorrow is another day.  
  
  Q. What's your mindset going into tomorrow?  
 TOMMY GAINEY: Actually I'm excited, you know. I didn't make any putts until the last few holes except for last two I made two putts but, you know, now I didn't make any putt today. But I'm going to be excited because I'm hitting the driver better. When I can hit more fairways, to me that means more opportunities at birdie.  
  
  Q. Talk about that finishing stretch where you and Webb were still going back and forth and the crowd is into it, just that feeling.  
 TOMMY GAINEY: No question about it. It's a great feeling when Webb is playing that well because I mean I'm pretty sure he birdied what, 14, eagled 15, birdied 16, 17 and should have birdied 18.   
 That's golfing the ball right there. I'm just glad to be able to witness it and try to feed off of it. That's all you can ask for.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT