THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 5, 2011
Tom Gainey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Tommy, you had a good day overall, just one bad hole but that's what this course is, isn't it?  
 TOMMY GAINEY: I'm telling you, I played real solid for 14 holes, but I got on 15 and I just had a poor swing and out here, when you swing at it poorly, it doesn't take long for it to bite you, and it got me good there.   
  
  Q. And the irony is you hit the same club, 7-iron on 17, with a similar distance, and that one went long?  
 TOMMY GAINEY: Yeah, you know, when I think I hit it -- I hit it a lot better on 17 than I did on 15 and it was just a poor swing on 15 and it was a great swing on 17 and a difference of three shots.   
 It could have been so much better today than 1-over, but you know what, I said earlier that, you know, even par, 1-under, 1-over, not a bad score out here today. I'm still tied for sixth right now, even making triple so, that makes me a little more mad just thinking of it that way.   
 So I'll just try to play better tomorrow, and still not out of it, because whoever the leader is, still got to play tomorrow. I mean, he could have a bad swing and make triple or two bad swings and make double-double.   
 It goes for everybody. I mean, still anybody's game.   
  
  Q. That's the one good thing, if you have a hole where you make a triple, do it on the Saturday because then you have a whole day to make up for it just a little bit out there?  
 TOMMY GAINEY: I agree with that. But then I agree to disagree.   
  
  Q. It's hard after a hole like that, to come into the scoring trailer, and thinking you're in 50-something place, and you're in sixth place?  
 TOMMY GAINEY: That's what I was thinking, somebody just slap me upside the head, because making that triple, just a bad swing, and just didn't trust it when I took the drop. I was scared I was going to hit it in the water again and I just poured it into the bunker and just missed a fewer footer.   
 But I have to be pleased with the way it went so far, and you know, I've got a chance to maybe -- second, third place, Top-5 finish, and maybe if I get hot tomorrow and just light it up -- but this course is not accessible to low scores and I think the wind is going to be blowing just as hard tomorrow because there's some bad weather headed here tomorrow afternoon.  
 So you know, I've just got to stay with it and see what happens.   
  
  Q. You've got the right attitude, just give yourself the chance; if you get hot, you never know what happen?  
 TOMMY GAINEY: That's it. That's golf; one day, you can beat anybody and the next day, you can't beat nobody. .  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT