WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 7, 2011
Tom Gainey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Obviously not the way you wanted it to turn out, but you had overall just a great week. You've got to be pleased for the most part other than the one hole.   
 TOMMY GAINEY: Well, there's two ways to look at it. I mean, I played good. I was in contention.   
 But the other thing is you know, I had a shot to win this tournament, and to get a break like I got on 17. I know it was bad or whatever, it was pretty bad because the drop that I had to drop on the side hill, I was worried about the ball rolling back in the water instead of trying to hit the shot. I was just trying to get over it fast and just kind of get it on the green and just take a two-putt or whatever. But I was very worried about the ball rolling back in on a severe slope like that. That's what I was thinking about. And you see what I made on the hole; I made a 7. Next time it'll be a little different story.  
  
  Q. Overall you've got to be feeling really confident about the way you played.   
 TOMMY GAINEY: I played great this week. For three rounds I played excellent. The fourth round, not so great. You know, I'm not real happy with the fourth round, actually kind of pissed. But I guess I've just got to deal with it. You've got to win with class and you've got to lose with class, so I'm trying to deal with that right now.  
  
  Q. What do you take away moving forward? Are you going to be able to put that out of your mind?   
 TOMMY GAINEY: Oh, it's going to sting for a couple days. It's going to sting for a couple days. Hopefully I'll be ready come Thursday first round of Pebble. I should be ready to play. But for the next couple of days, this hurts.   
  
  Q. You keep knocking on the door long enough, you're finally going to break it down one of these days.   
 TOMMY GAINEY: I hope so because that door seems to get harder and harder to break down. For three rounds I played really good, and today, I don't know what to say, I just played awful.  
  
  Q. A brilliant birdie for you at the 15th gave you an opportunity and then a really tough hot drive on 17 took the opportunity away.   
 TOMMY GAINEY: You know, I don't know what to say about 17. Bad break, good shot, bad shot. I really don't know what to say. I didn't get to see it bounce. I didn't get to see where it landed so I can't comment on whether it was a good break or a bad break or just a bad shot or a good shot.  
  
  Q. It hit really hard just short of the front of the green, raced over, and then actually hit the red hazard stake and almost stayed out of the water, then tumbled in.   
 TOMMY GAINEY: I'll tell you, if it wouldn't have hit the red hazard stake and stayed up, that would have been a blessing in disguise. But I'm happy with -- I don't have any choice, I've got to be happy with the way I played this week.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT