WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 6, 2011
Tom Gainey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You're in a great position. You've been playing good golf. Tell me how you're feeling going into the final round. 
 TOMMY GAINEY: I'm a little upset because I just bogeyed my 17th hole. I three-putted there and I just missed like a 14-, 15-footer for birdie, so I'm not too happy about that. But I'm still in great position and just got to keep playing and see what happens.

 Q. You looked like you were having a good time out there and staying pretty confident. How are you able to do that?
 TOMMY GAINEY: I'm just enjoying the game, and that's what it's all about. I've been out here before, and I think I didn't have enough fun like I'm having now. My scores are pretty good, so I'm going to try to keep having fun and keep making birdies, and by the end of the day hopefully I'll have a W.

 Q. Looked like you were feeding off the crowd. Did they keep you going?
 TOMMY GAINEY: No question about it. The crowd is great. You couldn't ask for anything else. 

 Q. Three rounds in and you're still the leader. 
 TOMMY GAINEY: Well, I'm still the leader, but I just three-putted my 17th hole and I'm not too happy about that, but I'm still in great position. I've just got to keep grinding. It's not going to be easy because as I said before, out here it's the best players in the world, and as soon as you make mistakes, as you've seen Mark Wilson just capitalize on that last hole out there making birdie to get back within like one shot, I believe, I've just got to bear down and grind it out.

 Q. What's your approach going to be overall to close it out now? 
 TOMMY GAINEY: Well, my approach is just keep doing what I'm doing, just keep swinging. Don't try to guide the ball, just keep swinging. I think I got into trying to guide the ball earlier in the round, and I got away with some shots out to the right. I was able to get them up-and-down. So I'm just going to try to keep grinding and just stay aggressive. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT