WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 4, 2011
Tom Gainey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MARK STEVENS: We'd like to welcome Tommy Gainey. Long day today. I think you started on No. 3 this morning to finish the first round, but you got it to 11-under and kind of in a share of the lead right now through part of the second round. If you'd want to make some comments about today and what you expect tomorrow.   
 TOMMY GAINEY: Well, I'm just glad to be in this position right now. As you know, I think we played three tournaments so far this year, and I've missed the cut in all three, played absolutely terrible, and right now I'm starting to hit the ball like I'm supposed to. I'm starting to score. Putts are dropping, and everyone knows associated with this game, and you media people, once the putts start falling, you can shoot an unbelievable low number. It just so happens that I'm making putts right now, and I'm tied for the lead.   
  
  Q. Did you know -- first of all, how long did you have to enjoy that first round, about five minutes maybe? And did you know that you were the first-round leader at that point when you went back out and started your second round?   
 TOMMY GAINEY: Um, the first question is we signed the scorecard, we had to go straight to the tee, and my wife, she got me a Chick-Fil-A sandwich and a Coke, so I was trying to eat and drink on the run, which anybody knows that's hard to do.  
 But the second question, when I shot 8-under I didn't know I was in the lead because I noticed earlier that Dustin Johnson was at 7-under and there was one other player at 7-under, and I think somebody else was taking it a little deeper, so I didn't know I was in the lead at that time. But when I got to No. 11 for my second round, start of my second round, when I birdied that hole, then I knew I was in the lead.   
  
  Q. Did it help at all just go right into that second round and just kind of keep it going, whereas normally you'd be done for the day and looking at another round?  
 TOMMY GAINEY: You know, I think it did. I think it did. I'd have to say yes to that. I was in a groove. I just shot 8-under, 63 here, so I was ready to go right back out there. I was swinging at it good. I was doing a lot of great things out there during the first 18, so I was ready to get back out there and start my second round.  
  
  Q. What was sort of your mind frame this morning? You knew you were going to end up playing probably 25 holes or whatever you played today. What were you thinking going in? Were you a little concerned about playing that many or whatever you had to play, or were you looking forward to it?  
 TOMMY GAINEY: I didn't know. I really wasn't concerned. Not concerned about coming out and playing 20, 22 or 25 holes. My only concern was when I got out here how long the wait was going to be. I mean, that's something you can't prepare yourself for.   
  
  Q. How long was it?   
 TOMMY GAINEY: How long was it? I think we teed off at 11:00. Pretty sure we teed off at 11:00. You know, I got out here -- let's see. We were supposed to go off at I think 9:00, 9:30, so I mean, that's another hour and a half before we tee off. Obviously that's another -- I was out here like 8:15 because I figured that if it got 28 again that it would be another two- or three-hour delay. And obviously it was just an hour and a half. I guess we're lucky that it wasn't longer.  
  
  Q. And like for three hours or whatever in the morning, what did you do during that time?   
 TOMMY GAINEY: You know, I just hung out. You know, just ate some breakfast and just talked to some of the players, talked to my wife and some of the other players' wives, just chilling. I mean, that was about all we could do was just talk or go inside and watch TV, SportsCenter or the CNN news or Headline News, whatever they have going on.   
  
  Q. In the cold weather, does the two gloves serve a purpose, keep your hands warm, too?  
 TOMMY GAINEY: Well, you know, that's a good question. You know, I don't necessarily think it's an advantage when it's real cold, and I'll tell you why, because when it drops to -- like the last two holes, the temperature started dropping, I mean, my hands, even though I had the gloves on, they were still freezing. You know, the feel, I didn't have much feel in my hands at that time. So I'd have to say it's not really much of an advantage when it gets that cold because everybody -- wearing a glove or not, it's still freezing, and your hands are feeling kind of numb. And that's the way my hands were feeling, kind of numb.   
  
  Q. What do you think about the way the rest of this week is going to go? Looks like there's going to be play pretty much as soon as they can get out there until sunset the next couple of days and then finish on Monday.   
 TOMMY GAINEY: I'm hoping we don't finish Monday, but --  
  
  Q. They guaranteed you're going to finish on Monday.   
 TOMMY GAINEY: Okay, well, you know, I just stepped off the golf course in here, so I appreciate the heads-up on that. It's God's work. You know, he's the man, so you can't really go against what he's got planned for us. I'm like everybody else, just got to deal with it.   
 MARK STEVENS: Thanks a lot. Good luck tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT