TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 21, 2013
Tom Gainey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   That was an exciting round of golf, Tommy Gainey.   Six birdies on the day and you are right in the middle of this tournament, halfway through.
TOMMY GAINEY:   You know what, I made six birdies today, played pretty well, hit it well, putted it well, which myself talking about putting, I've putted terrible this year.
But it feels good to make some putts, but not real happy about 18.

Q.   Tell me about playing this course and maybe a comfort level, and maybe how it fits your game plan to play this layout.
TOMMY GAINEY:   I mean I feel like any course out here that all the players out here, their games should fit the course.   Doesn't matter if it's 7,000, 75, 65.   Doesn't matter.   I mean everybody's game should fit the course.   I mean we're the best players in the world.   So it should be that way.

Q.   Tell me your excitement to play on the weekend here and have a chance to contend.
TOMMY GAINEY:   Oh, no doubt.   I'm very excited.   I feel like I've got a shot.   The way I'm putting right now, I feel like if I can hit it just the way I'm hitting it right now and get some more putts to go in the next two days, I got a shot.

Q.   Awesome.   Keep it rolling, Tommy Gainey.   Good luck. 

Q.   Hit the greens today, huh?
TOMMY GAINEY:   I did.   I don't know exactly how many putts I had, but any time you make six birdies in a round, I feel like it's a good day.   I just had a couple minimal mistakes out there, couple bad swings, and I paid the price for it with a double on 7.   Paid the price there, but you know what, it's golf.
But I'm a little disturbed on 18, making bogey there.   I'm not real happy about that, but it's getting there.

Q.   It seemed like the course didn't yield the scores that it did yesterday, not as many real low scores.   Was there a perceptible difference out there?
TOMMY GAINEY:   Tougher pins.   Tougher pins.   I mean tougher pins.   You know, I just made some putts.   You know, it doesn't matter how tough they are, but if you can make some 15‑footers or 20‑footers, and I think today even on No. 1, I started out on No. 1, I think I made a 40, 45‑footer to start with.   Any time you can steal one of those during the round you're on the right track.

Q.   Especially when you start a round like that, what kind of a momentum boost is that?
TOMMY GAINEY:   Oh, it starts it.   It starts the momentum and you just have to try to ride it out.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT