PGA TOUR MEDIA CONFERENCE
December 5, 2007
Tom Gainey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


   STEWART MOORE:  First and foremost, I'd like to thank everyone for joining us today for this call with new PGA TOUR member Tommy Gainey.  Tommy has competed on the Tarheel Tour for the last four years, as well as some events on the Hooters Tour and the Gateway Tour.  A lot of you might know Tommy through his fame on The Golf Channel's Big Break series, where he was a participant in Big Break V and then was called back to the Big Break VII Reunion Series, which he won and gained some exemptions on the Nationwide Tour via that that win. 
 Earlier this year Tommy caught a lot of headlines through 54 holes at the Nationwide Tour's BMW Charity Pro-Am at the Cliffs, solo second through 54 holes, finished T30.  Later finished T8 at the Cox Classic in Nebraska on the Nationwide Tour. 
 So throughout the year of 2007 a lot of people knew this was probably going to be a big year for Tommy, which eventually it turned out to be. 
 Last week at PGA TOUR Qualifying School he finished tied for 19th, survived, as Tommy might put it, a final round 77 to gain his PGA TOUR card and will be a full member next year. 
 Tommy, maybe just talk to us about qualifying tournament, six grueling days.  Obviously you played great golf for five days and really hung on over the last ten holes. 
 TOM GAINEY:  First of all, I've got to say, let me tell you, Q-school is every bit as hard as they say.  You know, the last day is full of pressure, and if you don't handle it right and play solid, then all the horror stories that you've heard before are true.  I mean, it can happen to you, and it almost happened to me, you know, shooting 77 the last day.  But I have a good friend of mine on the bag, Scott, and he caddied for me this week.  He done a hell of a job for me, and as you can see, it paid off big dividends for me. 
 STEWART MOORE:  Everyone knows a little bit of your background, from rural South Carolina in Bishopville and the two gloves.  Talk a little bit about where the two gloves started? 
 TOM GAINEY:  You know, the two gloves, it started when I was playing baseball.  You know, I played baseball when I was nine until 11, 12, and I wore two gloves then.  And then when I started playing a little golf around 9, 10, 11, around that neighborhood, my dad, he was playing a lot at the time, so I just got his gloves and started using them. 
 And then I was just messing around with it, I didn't think nothing of it, because baseball was my favorite sport at the time.  But then when I turned age 15, I started making a lot of birdies, making a lot of big numbers, shooting some pretty good numbers at the time, and I thought, well, I might be able to do something with this.  I had a lot of people tell me, you might have some opportunities open up if you keep playing like this. 
 So I just gave up baseball at 16, started playing golf. 
 STEWART MOORE:  And then after high school, briefly take us through after high school until when you started playing mini-tours full-time. 
 TOM GAINEY:  Well, you know, when I got out of high school in '93 I went straight to Central Carolina Technical College to get a certificate in industrial maintenance because at the time there were a lot of jobs open, and back in '93 and '94, '95, you know, they had a lot of job openings in the paper for maintenance men.  So I thought that would be a good field to get into, you know, starting off at $14 an hour.  And like I say, that's 14 years ago.  I mean, $14 an hour, that's pretty good starting salary, or starting pay for an hour. 
 So I went into that.  And then all of a sudden, I did that and I was working at the golf course, Bishopville Country Club, at the time, and I got a job at A.O. Smith in McBee, South Carolina, and then I worked there as a temporary in the lab testing water heaters for eight months. 
 Then I got a job in the assembly line in the plant, and I was wrapping insulation for another eight months.  And let me tell you, it's as bad as it sounds, wrapping insulation, let me tell you.  You're talking about itching, scratching.  You name it, I was doing it. 
 You know, and then I met a friend of mine, Cliff Wilson, who said at the time there was this Teardrop Tour available playing all over the place, and it just so happened there was a tournament in Columbia playing at Woodcreek Farms in like early October back in '97.  He said, well, you know, Tommy, I'll pay your entrance fee.  He paid like $500 of a $650 entrance fee, and I took care of the rest. 
 And at the time I was working six days at A.O. Smith, so I really didn't have much time to practice.  So I didn't have no vacation, so I took two sick days at work, and I played in it and ended up winning the tournament.  You know, it took me about three or four days when I got back to work to realize, well, I think I want to try this. 
 STEWART MOORE:  Obviously a great story, and I guess at this point we will turn it over to some questions. 

 Q.  Did you do most of your playing back at Bishopville Country Club?  And also, I know you're self-taught.  Can you just talk about how your swing evolved? 
 TOM GAINEY:  Okay, you know, I used to play a lot of golf at Bishopville Country Club, and there was a few other courses around the area that I used to play a lot, too, starting with Hartsville Country Club, which is right down the road; in Columbia this golf course Northwoods, I've played there a lot over the years, and that's pretty much it.  That's pretty much the places that I played all the time. 
 And now you talk about my self-taught swing, you know, it's just like I said before, you know, I picked it up through baseball, and that's how I play.  I play golf just like baseball.  I grip the club just like I'm going to hit a baseball. 
 Just teaching myself to do it that way, I know it's unorthodox and a lot of people say it's kind of strange, but you know, look at Jim Furyk, the way he swings at it; isn't that strange?  I mean, he loops it or flips it, whichever way you want to say it, he brings it straight up, then he flips it right on play, and he's one of the best golfers in the world; nobody is laughing at him. 
 Just because the old saying, don't judge a book by its cover, I think I've got a lot of talent.  A lot of people feel the same way, and just proving it this year, my swing has held up, and I think it will hold up.  I'm just going to go with what I have and we'll go from there. 

 Q.  When you played here at the Wachovia Championship last year, that was your first PGA TOUR experience, and obviously you've played dozens, hundreds of mini-tour events, but what did you take from that experience and how much did that sort of reinforce the notion that this is what you wanted to do? 
 TOM GAINEY:  Well, you know, first of all, once you money qualify into a PGA tournament, or a Nationwide tournament, but you talk about the PGA, you're talking about the best players in the world, and just to Monday qualify to get in that tournament, which is I've heard a lot of players saying that's one of the best tournaments on the TOUR.  All the players rave about how well they're treated, what they get to do and things of that nature.  I was just happy to be a part of the field, just to get in. 
 You know, the overwhelming part about being in there was, you know, I'm out here playing with Tiger Woods and the best players in the world.  You know, maybe I kind of let that star-strike me a little bit, but I felt like I was going to try to do the best I can, not get carried away, who's right down the range from me, who's next to me hitting balls.  I didn't try to let that bother me. 
 There was a job to do, and my job was to get out there and play the best I could for four days, and it just so happened that I played good the first day and then the second day it just got away from me.  You know, I got to thinking ahead about making the cut instead of focusing on the shot at hand, and when you do that, I got a little carried away and it cost me for making the cut. 
 So I learned a very valuable lesson there, and I've tried to take that lesson from then on, that Wachovia Championship, until now, and I've learned quite a bit from that. 

 Q.  Congratulations.  I actually have two questions if that's allowed here.  What was the purse in that first win in the Teardrop?  And the second question, talk a little bit about the Big Break experience, especially playing with the girls.  It seemed like they had a little soft spot for you there, and have you heard from any of them? 
 TOM GAINEY:  First of all, the purse at the tournament I won on the Teardrop Tour back in 1997, it was $15,000.  You know, back at the time I'm just 21 years old.  Being at that young age, you know, I'm young and dumb, so to speak; don't know what to do with that kind of money when you come into it that fast. 
 But as far as the girls, you know, I look at it this way, man:  I like everybody in this world.  As long as they respect me for what I am, I respect them for who they are, and that's the way I like to be.  That's the way I was raised.  I was raised to respect others as you want to be treated, and that's the way I want to do it. 
 It just so happened that with Ashley and Bri, being the reality show the Big Break is, everybody reads into whether you and Bri are seeing each other, this, that and the other.  But you know, Bri was my partner, and one thing on that show is I had two things in mind going on that Big Break VII, to win the show and have fun doing it. 
 It just so happened that she was my partner, so the things that I had to do was I had to get close to her, find out what shots she liked to hit, what she didn't like, the advantages of her golf game, the disadvantages, and try to work together and get to the final group where it would be me versus her or whatever.  But that was the thing; we just had to work together instead of work against each other. 
 I consider her as a friend, and I consider all those players as a friend.  I mean, I've got nothing against none of them.  I wish them the best in their future and whatever it holds. 

 Q.  Have you heard from any of them? 
 TOM GAINEY:  You know, I've heard from Bri.  I haven't heard from Ashley because of her final stage, I think she's a little disappointed the way she played.  I've heard from Don Donatello, I've heard from Kelly.  I've heard from quite a few others, but that's just to name a few.  But I've heard from quite a few people. 
 I've heard from quite a few people in the Golf Channel, as well.  They wish me the best and they want me to succeed.  You know, I really appreciate them thinking of me like that. 

 Q.  Just a couple quick things.  One, when you were working as a furniture mover or as an insulation guy, did you ever watch TV on the weekend thinking what it be like to play on the PGA TOUR with the guys back then?  And also, what goals have you set for yourself in 2008? 
 TOM GAINEY:  The first question, you know, that's a good question.  You know, it's been a dream of mine since I was a little boy to -- once I started playing, that that would be cool to be on TV playing golf for a living, making the money they were making and having all the publicity and things like that.  That would be cool.  Who doesn't like to be on TV?  I mean, that would be fun for me. 
 Your second question, my goals for 2008, it's pretty simple.  I've accomplished a lot in Q-school.  I've got the Tour card.  That's just half.  That's halfway. 
 The other part is you get out there and you play solid.  You get the card secure for the next year, and that's my goal is to go out there, play the best I can, make a lot of money, get my card secured because this is my future is to be on the PGA TOUR, and that's for the rest of my life.  That's just not for one year or two year or three years, it's for the rest of my life, and I believe that's what you're going to see from me in years to come. 

 Q.  Just curious, you've been out there all this time, and I know the TOUR has been your goal.  What have been other close-calls?  How far did you get through Q-school before this?  And what was the difference this time that enabled you to get to the final stage to do what you did and get your card? 
 TOM GAINEY:  Okay, well, everyone should know.  If not, I'll say last year we were filming the Big Break VII.  The two weeks before I was supposed to go to the Hombre Golf Club in Panama City beach, Florida.  So I filmed the show and then I didn't get a practice round at the Hombre.  I flew in late that night, got in about 10:30, 11:00 o'clock, and I played the first round and I had a bad round.  I shot 80.  Out of four rounds, the first round I shot 80. 
 You know, I didn't give up.  I was real disappointed in shooting the 80.  But I had three more rounds, so I had to buckle down and get everything going, needed to get it back to a good number.  So I buckled down, practiced and got my game back in shape. 
 And the next three days I played well.  I ended up missing the cut by one shot.  I was at 5-over and the cut was 4. 
 You know, the good thing about that was shooting that bad round, I came back and just missed by one.  That is a great feat to try to overcome when you shoot that bad a score and you come back from it and just miss it by one.  I mean, that's a great comeback.  I didn't give up. 
 You know, the bad thing is, I was thinking, well, if I wasn't in the Big Break VII and I would have gotten a practice round or two down there, would the results be different.  And this year, you know, I made a switch from the Titleist golf ball to the Callaway golf ball early in the year right before the Wachovia, the Monday qualifier, and I got into the Monday and I got into Wachovia, and I started -- you know, this is good. 
 So basically I learned from that big disappointment last year and I took it this year, I said, I'm going to make 2007 my year.  I'm not going to fail like that again.  I'm tired of failing.  I want to be out there on the PGA TOUR with all these guys. 
 So that's what I done.  I feel like I belong out here with these players, the best players in the world.  And now as you can see, I've got this PGA TOUR card and I am now considered one of the best players. 

 Q.  Two things:  One, you had mentioned you learned a valuable lesson at Wachovia getting ahead of yourself and obviously missing the cut; and coming down the stretch during Q-school, the final round I'm sure wasn't the score you were looking for, but you got your card.  How much did you find yourself during that final round thinking ahead to getting your card and maybe getting ahead of yourself at all? 
 TOM GAINEY:  You know, I don't exactly think I was getting ahead of myself the final day.  What I was trying to do was I was trying to play a solid round and the conditions got pretty bad.  You know, at the time I was just trying to shoot a good number because I felt like even, 2-, 3-under was what I wanted to shoot because being at 20-under going into the last day, even I shoot 1- or 2-over, fine, I'm going to get the TOUR card without any problems. 
 But they always say that last round, that final round of Q-school, the pressure is so heavy that it affects a lot of players.  And I've got to tell you, I'm one of them.  I let the pressure affect me so much and the way I was playing that I wasn't really focused on shots.  You know, as you can see, the pressure got to me a pretty good bit. 
 I've heard all these horror stories that these players go through, and you know, it almost happened to me.  That's a great lesson to learn; just stay in the moment and try not to worry about the pressure, just play the game.  I just let the pressure get the best of me, and it just so happened that it was enough -- I played well the first five days well enough that I didn't have to worry about that 77 knocking my chances of that PGA TOUR card. 

 Q.  The other question I wanted to follow up on, obviously the 'Two Gloves' nickname, and now that you're on the PGA TOUR, you said your goal was to make a lot of money.  There are plenty of guys on TOUR that have endorsement contracts, and your unique nickname and the focus on wearing two gloves, I'm wondering if you have any endorsement deals out there, any glove deals or any other deals that you've signed since you got your TOUR card? 
 TOM GAINEY:  You know, my agent and I, Paul Graham is my agent, and our relationship is real close.  We're real close.  He's like a father figure to me when my father is not around.  I have to say that, you know, he told me one thing, and this is the only thing he asked of me, is "play golf and let me handle all the other stuff."  And that's pretty much what I do.  I play golf and he handles all the other stuff. 
 That way my focus is on what it needs to be instead of on trying to get these deals, trying to talk about these deals with these companies with him at this time.  So he takes care of all that and I just play golf.  I find, as you can see, it's worked pretty good so far, so why change that? 

 Q.  I'm just wondering, a little bit off the beaten path, but I had heard some story about an old girlfriend of yours or something and it provided some motivation because she didn't think you could make it and whatnot, and I'm just wondering about the history of that. 
 TOM GAINEY:  Could you say that again?  I didn't hear that part.  I'm hearing a lot of static. 

 Q.  I had heard a story about an old girlfriend of yours who didn't think that you could make it on TOUR and make a living out of golf, if maybe that was a little bit of motivation for you initially to try to make it.  I just wondered what the genesis of that is. 
 TOM GAINEY:  Yeah, you know, I have a girlfriend now, and I think -- this is the same girl, the story that you probably heard.  My girlfriend Rachel, you know, I think she got real jealous about that situation with Bri, what I said and what it looked like on TV.  She got it where she couldn't handle it because of everybody looking at her and saying, well, Tommy is with her, he's not with you anymore, so you're just not his girlfriend anymore.  He wants Bri, he doesn't want you, and things like that. 
 You know, that's one thing I want to kind of try to just settle right now since I'm talking to you guys.  You know, Rachel has been my girlfriend for four and a half years.  Anybody can say what they want.  I mean, I love the girl and that's my girlfriend and that's the way it is right now. 
 Bri, she's a good girl, nice-looking girl, she's a good player, but I'm happy with the girlfriend I have and I'm going to just leave it at that.  You know, everybody else just really gave her a hard time about it and she got upset, crying and things like that, so I just wanted to put a stop to anybody that's thinking that I'm after Bri or anybody else when I have a girlfriend that I'm in love with.  You know, I just want to go ahead and put a stop to that. 

 Q.  Just as a follow-up, since you got your card, I'm just wondering if you've daydreamed at all about that first event that you'll play as a fully exempt member of this TOUR and how maybe you might reflect on it and how unlikely your story might be to where you've gotten, if you can appreciate kind of the path that you've taken? 
 TOM GAINEY:  You know, I'm going to be honest with you.  I haven't really daydreamed or thought much about being in Hawaii for the first one because the ordeal I went through at Q-school, it really wore me out pretty good.  And if anyone had seen the interview that I gave to The Golf Channel, I mean, you could pretty much look at my face, and I mean, it said a lot.  I mean, I just was wore out, I was real tired.  It really drained me physically and mentally. 
 And what I'm trying to focus on now is since I've got this card, I just want to get some rest and get myself reenergized to get ready to start practicing a little bit before that tournament.  But I'd say in another week or so, I'd say next week, I'll start looking as far as daydreaming and thing like that.  It'll really start to sink in after this weekend, as soon as I get the rest that I need after what I went through. 

 Q.  I'm sure in the past few days a lot of people have reached out and congratulated you, calls, messages.  I'm curious personally which one meant the most.  And then second question would be before getting through the Monday qualifying for Wachovia and getting your card this week, what would you list as your biggest golf accomplishment? 
 TOM GAINEY:  Well, you know, the talk about all the phone calls and stuff, I'd probably have to say the phone call that I got from my dad and my brother probably meant the most of all, just because he's my father, love him to death, and my brother I love to death. 

 Q.  What did they tell you -- 
 TOM GAINEY:  It's a good feeling when you can just -- you know, he's living his life through me because he's played golf for I don't know how many years now, and he got me started, and now -- he seen the talent in me before I seen it.  And I'm really privileged that I can be on the PGA TOUR and let my father follow me and kind of live a dream, so to speak, that he had. 
 But you know, all the other calls, all the calls mean a lot because like I said before, my friends, they had the confidence in me to tell me that you belong out there on the PGA TOUR, before I believed in myself.  I just have to thank my friends for keeping the faith, and it turned out to be they were right.  They convinced me to believe in myself, and I just, like I said, I've got the best friends and the best family in the world. 
 And your second question was what about the Wachovia? 

 Q.  Before Monday qualifying at the Wachovia and before getting your card this week, what would you list as your biggest accomplishment? 
 TOM GAINEY:  My biggest accomplishment?  You know, I've really accomplished a lot.  But you know, I would have to say -- I mean, I would have to say my biggest accomplishment is to get to final stage for the first time knowing -- not knowing -- well, knowing of all the pressure but not going through all the pressure before at finals, not knowing what could happen.  You know, all the consequences, all these horror stories you hear, when you hear all these stories it kind of gets your mind to turning, this could happen to me.  I could be in good shape and then I could make an error or something like that on the last hole and miss it by one or miss it by two, and then look at it, postpone it for another year. 
 Really I just tried to keep my mind on my game and my caddie, my buddy Scott, he helped me through that, also.  He kept me in the right frame of mind.  You look at the results, and the results are that PGA TOUR card, and that's all that matters. 

 Q.  A couple quick questions if you're able to share this:  What does your dad do for a living? 
 TOM GAINEY:  My dad is now retired.  You know, my sister has three little girls, I've got three nieces.  One of them is five, the other one is almost four, and the other one is like 11 months, so he spends a lot of his time babysitting them because both my sisters work.  One goes to college, the other one works, she's like an RN or something like that, so her hours are all screwed up, so my dad really takes care of it.  My mother, she works like 10 hours, 11 hours a day, so she really doesn't have much time to look at them until she gets home.  So that's pretty much what my dad does, just babysits. 

 Q.  What's your dad's handicap? 
 TOM GAINEY:  My dad's handicap is about a 14. 

 Q.  And one other key question here, you've obviously come up through the ranks and you've done your apprenticeship through the minor leagues and the mini-Tour and ridden the buses, to use the baseball comparison.  A couple other players come to mind, like Arron Oberholser, for example, that struggled to get on the TOUR, but once he did, he succeeded.  Do you feel that maybe your potential for success is better now than had you gotten your card five years ago and maybe wouldn't have succeeded? 
 TOM GAINEY:  Oh, no question.  I feel so comfortable under the camera now, it's unbelievable, and I owe that to being on the Big Break.  The Big Break Series IV and VII, what the show is, you can hit a great shot and be kicked off that show.  But if you hit a bad shot in a TOUR event, you know, you just make your bogey and you go to the next hole.  But on that show you hit one bad shot, I mean, you're going home.  There ain't no second chances. 
 But you have a second chance when you're playing in an event because you have some holes left to get that back, to make up for it, and I mean, that's a good thing about a TOUR event.  You've got 18 holes.  If you bogey the first three holes, you've got 15 holes left to come back and try to get that back. 
 On that show, one bad shot and you're history; you're going home and that's it. 

 Q.  And is there a particular event you're really looking forward to playing in or a particular player that you're looking to play with? 
 TOM GAINEY:  Well, you know, I'm going to tell you, I'm looking forward to playing in the Wachovia Championship again this year, because last year the first day and the second day I really played terrible, but I'm looking forward to going back there this year because I'm more ready for it. 

 Q.  And how about a particular player? 
 TOM GAINEY:  The player, you know, I'd like to play with Tiger.  I'd love to play a practice round with Tiger just to see how he gets it around and how he prepares himself to play.  In the tournament, you know, playing with Tiger, you'd have I don't know how many fans out there, but he'd have the fans just flock to him.  You know, they should because he's a freak of nature, no question about it.  He's the best player in the world, hands down.  You've got everybody -- he's head and shoulders above everybody right now, and you can tell by the way he's played. 
 He's the only player I know that has changed his swing totally and come back with a totally different swing and he's still kicking everybody's tail.  I mean, that's a lot to say about a player when you can do something like that. 
 I'd say I'd like to play with Fred Couples.  I think Couples would be a good guy to play with.  He's cool, calm, likes to have fun.  You never see him get upset.  I mean, I think that would be a lot of fun to play with him. 

 Q.  I want to know when you worked in McBee, what were your hours?  And also, have you heard from any of the guys you worked with up there since you started -- since you got your card or even when you were preparing to get it? 
 TOM GAINEY:  You know, my hours, I had two different hours.  When I worked as a temp, I'd work from 7:00 to 4:30.  And when I finally got into the plant, I worked 6:00 to 3:30.  And then when we had to work overtime, it would be 6:00 to 4:30.  And then when we worked overtime on Saturdays, on the weekends, it would be 5:00 to 1:00 or it would be 6:00 to 2:00. 
 You know, when you get up that early, and I was like 30 minutes away from the plant, and when you're talking about starting work at 6:00 in the morning, you're getting up at 5:00, getting in the shower, getting there at a quarter 'til.  You know, when you have to start work at 5:00 you're talking about getting up at 4:00.  Let me tell you, back then I didn't care for that too much. 
 But I have heard from quite a few people that I used to work with.  They've called me and left me some messages and texted me some messages.  You know, it's good that I used to work there and I do miss the people because there's a lot of good people there.  You know, they have sent me messages and text messages, voice mail messages, and I really do appreciate that they still think about me and think about what I'm doing and support what I'm doing.  It means a lot.  It means that the friends that I made up there when I was there for two and a half years, that means they really do care.  And that means a lot to me. 

 Q.  So when you worked there you would only play golf on the weekends, or would you be able to squeeze in a few holes once you got home? 
 TOM GAINEY:  Well, I'm going to tell you, when I got through wrapping insulation, because that's what I was doing, I really didn't feel like -- when you wrap 1,400 to 1,500 something heaters a day with insulation, you really don't feel like doing too much when you get home but getting in the shower and maybe taking a nap, and that's pretty much what I did because it was six days a week, and then I played on Sundays.  I played just about every Sunday unless I was sick.  Let me tell you, that insulation really got the best of me.  I'm glad I don't have to worry about that anymore. 

 Q.  Just the itching part, or were you getting it in your lungs and that type of stuff? 
 TOM GAINEY:  What was that? 

 Q.  Was it just the itching part that was the tough part of that, or did it get in your lungs and that type of stuff? 
 TOM GAINEY:  Yeah, it was the scratching and the itching.  You know, when you're doing eight hours and nine hours, when you're doing 1,400 to 1,500 heaters an hour, y'all do the math.  I mean, that's almost -- that's probably like 175 heaters an hour.  I mean, that's no time for a break.  There's one coming right after the other on the line, and you've just got no time.  You're just trying to stay caught up with the line that's moving because if you ever got behind, it was hard to catch up without stopping the line.  If you had to stop the line, then my supervisor didn't like that too much.  That was how that went. 

 Q.  I was wondering, you know, playing Wachovia last year and you played Nationwide, you've been around, but what can you pick up from guys who have been doing this for a long time and have always played pro golf that you think could help your own game?  What's something that you saw out there that you think you need to incorporate or can help you coming up in 2008? 
 TOM GAINEY:  Okay, I'll tell you, the quotes that I've got from Chris DiMarco and Zach Johnson.  I used to play a lot of golf with Zach Johnson, and I just met Chris DiMarco when I got into Wachovia.  I asked Zach, "What's it like out here?"  He said, "Man, look, he said, all you need to do is just play golf.  It's just golf.  Play golf.  Have fun.  That's what you're out here for."  He said, "Play golf."  And coming from The Masters champion, I think that's advice that you've got to take and run with.  Would you not?  Would you not say so? 

 Q.  You're going to obviously get a lot of attention from folks because of your history and your background.  The last couple of years we've seen Boo Weekley, who won down at the Heritage this year.  He's got kind of a similar background.  He came up cleaning tanks out with high pressure hoses and stuff like that.  Do you look to him, I don't know, as a little bit of a role model or a guy who has a similar background and has succeeded?  And also the fact that the first time he went out there, he didn't make it and he had to go back and play the Nationwide Tour and work his way back up, do you think -- do you worry at all about having to start over from scratch if it doesn't work out this year, or do you think that that's not a factor? 
 TOM GAINEY:  No, you know, I really don't -- I look at Boo Weekley as he's a good guy.  He's been at the bottom, and he's worked his way to the top because he won a PGA tournament.  That's what it's about.  You know, he started from scratch, as you just said, and he got to where he needed to be as one of the best players out there, and he's been playing well ever since. 
 You know, it's good to look at people like that that have the same background that you can look up to because me, I would like to have somebody I could go to for advice, and what better person to go to than Zach Johnson or Boo Weekley.  That's my plan.  I plan on seeing them and trying to learn some of the ropes from those guys, and I'm sure they would be more than happy to help me out, so that shouldn't be an issue.  So I'm looking forward to that. 
 But you know, I said my goal a while ago was to just go out there and play solid.  I've got half of the battle whipped now.  I've got the PGA TOUR card.  All I have to do is back it up.  Just get out there and play like I've been playing, and everything will take care of itself.  I don't have to worry about this person, this company or anybody else; it's in my hands.  All I have to do is play the way I know I can play and the way I've been playing and everything will work out. 
 I mean, I'll be one of the best players out there and I'll have the money and I'll have my card locked up, and it just so happens if I do have a bad year, going back to the Nationwide Tour is not a bad -- that's not a bad step backwards, so to speak.  I mean, you're playing for a lot less money, but you've still got a chance to get back to the PGA TOUR. 
 You know, I don't look at -- I feel how everybody feels.  Everybody makes mistakes.  So if I do fail this year, it's no big thing.  I'll just go back and do what I have to do to get back to the PGA TOUR and it'll be a very good lesson to learn and I'll gain so much more experience which will help me later on in life. 
 STEWART MOORE:  Thanks, everyone, so much more joining us.  Tommy, thanks for taking time out of your day to speak with everyone, answer questions.  I'm sure you gained a lot of fans today, and we're looking forward to seeing you on the PGA TOUR in 2008. 
 TOM GAINEY:  Thanks, man, I appreciate it. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT