RBC HERITAGE
April 18, 2013
Tom Gainey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Walk us through 18. 
TOMMY GAINEY:   18, let's just say it was the highlight of my day.   I hit a good tee ball.   My caddie says, 184.   It's an 8‑iron for me.   And I just hit the shot.   I got a good bounce, hit on the green and just rolled right in.   So I guess it's a perfect shot.

Q.   You could see it roll in from where you were?
TOMMY GAINEY:   I could see it rolling close to the hole, but I didn't know until the crowd went crazy that it took a nosedive.   I was happy to hear the noise.

Q.   You said that was the highlight of the day.   How did you play the rest of the day?
TOMMY GAINEY:   I hit the ball pretty well.   I just had one bad hole, just making a double on No. what, 4?   Just can't go after the pin and I went after the pin.   I wasn't trying to hit it right in the hole in the middle of the green and let it come to it, if it did.   But I just made a mistake and I paid the price for it.

Q.   Obviously you'd love a better start, but you don't feel you're out of it at this point?
TOMMY GAINEY:   No way.   No way.   Especially with the weather supposed to be getting bad the next two days, the weather is supposed to be a big factor in how players are going to play.   I feel like I'm right in there.   Just see what happens tomorrow.

Q.   Seemed like the wind was up a bit today, did you factor that in?   Especially 16, 17, 18 or other holes as well? 
TOMMY GAINEY:   No doubt.   You know, I thought it played a lot of tricks on the front side more so than the back side.   Had a lot of trouble on the front side getting any good looks at it.   I had all my good looks on the back side. 

Q.   What is it about this course that suits you?   You're able to play so many rounds under par here. 
TOMMY GAINEY:   I don't know.   I just like the golf course.   Love it, actually.   I feel like I'm a good ball‑striker.   You've got to hit it good out here, because if you hit it bad, you're going to shoot high numbers.

Q.   On 18, was the wind a big factor in your shot or was it swirling at the time?
TOMMY GAINEY:   We were trying to determine if the wind was right‑to‑left helping or just right‑to‑left.   And my caddie told me it was helping right‑to‑left.   And I pulled the 8.   It went in and, man, that was nice to see.

Q.   It's very rare on 18. 
TOMMY GAINEY:   Well, you know, 18's the most trouble hole, especially with that new back tee box.   It's got to be 470ish, something like that.   So I'm pretty happy to have a deuce on that hole, which somebody has to work to get another one there.

Q.   You've hit a lot of good shots in your time, where does that rank?
TOMMY GAINEY:   Well, come Sunday afternoon if I win this golf tournament, I'm going to say it's right up there with the one in Atlanta when I chipped in for eagle. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT