CHILDREN'S MIRACLE NETWORK HOSPITALS CLASSIC
November 7, 2012
Tom Gainey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  DOUG MILNE:   Tommy Gainey, thank you for joining us for a few minutes here at the Children's Miracle Network Classic.   Just a couple weeks removed from a very, very special debut just north of here up in Sea Island.   Your final round 60 at McGladrey was good enough to break into the winner's circle on the PGA TOUR.   With that said, can you comment on how life changed for you and are you kind of getting back to normal and kind of just preparing for this week here?   
TOMMY GAINEY:   You know, it's good.   Life is good.   Many times.   I'm very lucky and very fortunate to have won, and now it's starting to set in a little bit with everyone congratulating me on a great week.   Winning the tournament and especially hitting 60 the last day.   I'm pretty psyched about that.   
Winning one is good, now it's time to turn the page and see if we can get No. 2.   
DOUG MILNE:   We'll take questions.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
TOMMY GAINEY:   The best thing that's happened to me.   Well, let's just say a lot of players coming up and saying great playing and congratulations.   They know how hard it is to win out here and now I finally won.   I know how hard it is to win out here and it was a long time coming because I think I played like 150 to finally get one win.   So it's hard.   And them saying well done, that means a lot.   
   
 Q.   Being a PGA TOUR winner and not having (inaudible), how do you feel about winning that and getting it?   
TOMMY GAINEY:   Well, I mean you have to congratulate him because he beat a lot of great players, and he deserves the opportunity.   But I feel like I deserve the opportunity as well.   And him being 14 he's young enough, he's got plenty of time.   But I'm 37.   So there's a lot of difference in age there and opportunity as well.   
But it's okay.   I never complain about a win.   Never complain about a win.   So it's hard for me to say, although I'm disappointed that I didn't get in Augusta, which I am, but I'll just have to win another tournament and get in that way.  
   
 Q.   (Question regarding winning on the PGA TOUR and getting into Augusta.)   
TOMMY GAINEY:   I feel like if you can win a PGA tournament, you should be in Augusta.  
   
 Q.   For a few days after you shot the 60, you didn't just win a PGA TOUR.   You won a PGA TOUR event by shooting a 60 on the final day.   Were there a few days where it seemed a little surreal even though you had the trophy and all of that?  
TOMMY GAINEY:   You know, it is kind of surreal because everybody, all my family and friends thought that whenever I won a PGA tournament it would be coming from behind instead of being in the lead.   I'm so aggressive and I always go after pins that a lot of players wouldn't.   
I would say I really haven't thought about the final round 60.   All I've thought about is it's starting to set in now that I won a PGA tournament.   Now I've got a two‑year exemption.   So that's what's going to take away for me.   So I'm looking forward to two more years out here and trying to get more wins.  
   
 Q.   Shooting 60, had you done that in other events, other tours?  
TOMMY GAINEY:   You know, I haven't shot 60 in another tournament, but I have shot 64 in a tournament back in 2008.   I shot 63 at Waste Management last year, in 2011.   So I shot 8‑under there.   So that's 63.   So I've shot some low rounds, and I know at any given time, since I just won the McGladrey Classic, that at any given time I can shoot a low number to come back maybe from nine shots back.   
   
 Q.   The score you shot here in '08, is there anything you wound up ‑‑ even though you wound up falling short, is there anything you can take and move on and use from that after shooting 60 the other week?  
TOMMY GAINEY:   Yeah.   Sticking with my game plan.   I'm aggressive.   Sometimes I try to lay back a little bit, but sometimes that gets me in trouble.   But aggressive is the way I play, and I'll continue to play that way because it's worked out pretty good at the McGladrey, so I'm going to keep with it.  
   
 Q.   In '08 you had another Top 10 finish here.   Is this the type of course that lends to your aggressive play and allows it to pay off?  
TOMMY GAINEY:   You know, I feel like most players out here, especially myself, I feel like if we're on the PGA TOUR, every golf tournament should fit your game.   If you're one of the best players in the world, you should be able to play any golf course at any given time and be able to shoot any kind of number you want to shoot.   
   
 Q.   How did you celebrate the win?   Did you do anything afterwards or buy anything?  
TOMMY GAINEY:   Well, really, we bought a house.   Right before the win, we had already bought a house in South Carolina, and we're just in the process of getting furniture sent in and that kind of thing, trying to move into the house now.   But hadn't really bought anything.   
No, not really.   I mean I haven't had time to celebrate, to be honest with you.   I've been busy with stuff, and you know, it's a big deal to win.   I'm not really one to celebrate.   I might celebrate a little bit this week, having my dad around, maybe have a couple beers or something like that.   But celebration is a good step for me to win.   Now, I think I'm past the celebrating.   I'm just trying to focus on winning No. 2 because it's more about winning.   It's all about how many tournaments you win and winning majors.   So my next step is to try to win a major and contend in majors.   Just winning this tournament here proves that I can win on the stage, and I just want to win majors.   When you win majors, you're doing something special.   
   
 Q.   Did it change your outlook on the year?  
TOMMY GAINEY:   Oh, it was definitely a relief.   I mean if you don't I'll tell you where I was.   I was like 106 on the Money List, and I was out of all the Invitationals.   So this win gets me in the Invitationals.   
   
 Q.   Just one year?  
TOMMY GAINEY:   Just one year.   I've got Invitationals that I was not in that now I'm in.   Especially, you know, the Hyundai Tournament of Champions, I'm in that tournament and that's free money.   I can just go there, if I can go there and light it up and win that tournament, then I get into Augusta.   So it went from a bad year making 800,000, thereabouts, to having a great year winning, because it's all about winning, no matter ‑‑ last year I made over a million dollars.   I had seven Top 10s.   I'll be glad to give up seven Top 10s for a win, any day.  
   
 Q.   Second place in 2008.   How big was that and also that got you into the 150.   For those who are fighting, we talk about 125.   How important is it that 150?  
TOMMY GAINEY:   It's very important, because you know, you're assured of about 12 to 15 tournaments, especially before this change is about to happen next year.   They're adding a few tournaments to the Web.com Tour, and it goes to show that if you're outside, because I was like 202 coming into this tournament back in 2008.   And I shot 64 the last day and that moved me to like 145.   That just goes to show you never count yourself out because you've still got a chance.   As long as you're in the tournament, you've got a chance.  
   
 Q.   You talked about last year you had a lot of confidence, you played very well in Phoenix.   You didn't quite close the deal.   But what was that coming down the stretch?   The leaderboard, compared to what you did at Sea Island.   How difficult it is for you to keep that lead coming down the stretch?  
TOMMY GAINEY:   You know, it's just very hard to win.   It really is out here, because everybody ‑‑ golf is a game.   The worst player can beat the best player any given day.   That's why it's such a special game because really, say like Tiger versus me or Phil versus me, any day I could beat those guys, and probably every day they could beat me.   But there's still a chance.   So it's a chance.   That's all you need is a chance.   Once you're in the tournament, you've got a chance.   It's just can you get it going, can you get it going low enough, can you be comfortable with your game and confident enough to know that you need to play well and just ride it out.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
TOMMY GAINEY:   A friend of mine passed away about two months ago or so.   He's had a real big impact on my life.   He was like a second father to me.   He was one of those guys that kept on me about never give up on your dream because he knew the dream about playing out here and winning out here was special to me, and he always kept a positive attitude for me about keep it alive, just keep going at it.   Sooner or later it's going to pay off.   He went in for a routine back surgery and one of his arteries ruptured.   I think after about three days passed, that was it for him.   So I miss him.   People like that have a big impact on somebody's life, you never forget them.   That's something I will always remember.   
DOUG MILNE:   All right.   Tommy, you mentioned you're hungry, so with that we'll let you go eat.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT