AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 22, 2018
Su-Wei Hsieh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. KERBER/S. Hsieh   
4-6, 7-5, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Just kind of thoughts on that match and what do you think the difference was?  You were playing so well for about two sets there.  
SU-WEI HSIEH: The first two game for me was not easy, because I was thinking, Oh, that's Kerber.  And I make a lot of mistakes on the first two games.  Then the third game I try to do my plan again, to forget opponent and try to do my shot, and then I come back a little bit and it was going well after that.   
 Q.  6-4, 5-4 up, 15-Love, was your mind already through...  
SU-WEI HSIEH: It's not easy that game because she was serving pretty well, and of course then it gave me some pressure when I leading 5-4.  I was thinking, Oh, I have a chance.  I want to hang in there and then get my shot.  Before that she was making some errors, she was winning easy on her serve.  I know it's not going to be easy.  I was thinking we gonna go into 5-All, tiebreak.   
 Q.  How much fun were you having with some of the crazy dropshots you kept pulling off and winners?  
SU-WEI HSIEH: Not just dropshots, we were running a lot, trying to make opponent to run full court.  It was fun to make opponent and myself to running all the time.   
 Q.  There were times she looked like she was going to lose her temper after seeing so many winners hit off your racquet.  Do you notice that?  Does it make you feel pretty good on court knowing that you're driving her a little bit crazy?  
SU-WEI HSIEH: I'm driving her crazy (smiling)?   
 Q.  Driving her crazy a little bit, yeah.  
SU-WEI HSIEH: Okay.  This is good you told me that.  Next time we try to do more (smiling).   
 Q.  Did you have a specific plan to play her or were you just playing your own game and freestyling?  
SU-WEI HSIEH: I don't have a plan.  Actually, my boyfriend was looking her game earlier this morning.  I forgot to ask him what she play, so, I actually have no plan to go on the court.   
So I was try to still going my Su-Wei style, you know.   
 Q.  Can you talk us through your technique?  You hit two backhands, two hands, have you always done that?  Has anybody tried to change that, a coach in the past?  
SU-WEI HSIEH: Yeah, my father try to change that, because when I start tennis I was very young, so I was using the adult racquet so he want me to play double hand, easier to hold the racquet.   
At the middle after few years, he want me to play forehand like this, and then backhand like this.  One of my brother, he play like this, he change.  But I didn't change.  I was, like, I feel uncomfortable, so I couldn't change.   
And one of my younger brothers, he played double hand also.  At the end he change one hand on this side.  So somebody change; somebody did not change.   
 Q.  And you feel comfortable?  It's almost like your right hand and left hand must be equally strong?  
SU-WEI HSIEH: You know, Shuai Peng, she can do one hand left and then sometime I can do my hand this side.  I was thinking maybe I need to try shot on backhand.  But I think maybe is tough.  Because you need to train a little bit more on this one, maybe one years to get really good because the level of the girls sometimes they hit really hard if you're not used to you going to get a lot of free points.  I was thinking, maybe not.   
I try to use this side better with my right hand.  So I try to do a little bit more slice and one hand right now.   
 Q.  In your last night match you were saving a lot of bugs from the court.  You kept bending down to pick up the insects.  Why were you moving the bugs off the court so much?  
SU-WEI HSIEH: I normally move the bugs.   
 Q.  You do?  
SU-WEI HSIEH: I normally do that, because I don't really like to kill them.   
Also, I don't like the ball if they hit on the bug, and then maybe moving any direction.  I think is not fun.   
 Q.  Did you notice how Radwanska was kind of getting annoyed by that?  
SU-WEI HSIEH: Not annoyed.  About me?   
 Q.  She said, you know, there are so many bugs.  Why are you cleaning up all the bugs?  
SU-WEI HSIEH: As long as she not annoying of me, it's okay.   
 Q.  You have been mentioning Su-Wei style to describe your game plan and what you do out there.  How would you describe to somebody who's never seen you play what Su-Wei style is?  
SU-WEI HSIEH: I call like to play freestyle.  Like today I go on the court.  If I don't have a plan, then I do whatever I can.  When the ball come, I decide at the last moment where to hit, so sometime the girls say, oh, I don't know where she hit.  But sometimes I don't know where I hit, too (smiling).   
 Q.  When did you realize how good your timing was?  You get so much timing and variety from the timing of the ball.  You were like that as a little kid?  
SU-WEI HSIEH: Yes.  You saying my ball has a lot of power?  Because, you know, people say my ball looks no power.  Looks slowly and going to the corner, like this.  So you are the first person now who say my ball looks like I have power.   
 Q.  I'm just so fascinated by how good your timing is.  
SU-WEI HSIEH: Ah, the timing.   
 Q.  A lot of people get power from great timing, in any sport.  
SU-WEI HSIEH: You know, that's why the tennis is so interesting, because all the girl have different timing, different game.  Western style/Chinese style.  One-hand, double-handed.  That's why it make tennis so fun.   
 Q.  Can you use this going forward now the rest of the season?  Because Kerber said, Watch out for Su-Wei in 2018.  What do you think?  
SU-WEI HSIEH: I'm coming (dancing).  So I will keep trying.  Thank you.   
 Q.  Do you think it means you'll have success now that you have these matches behind you and these big victories?  
SU-WEI HSIEH: You know, it's always good to come back after 10 years and you make fourth round again.  With this age, I thinking if I try to work a little bit harder maybe I can -- I hope I can have more success.   
 Q.  What's the best you ever felt in singles?  Do you feel like you're playing the best singles of your career right now?  
SU-WEI HSIEH: Hmm.  I can't say is the best, because normally when I play top-10 player, sometime was winning a lot, and then I couldn't (indiscernible) myself sometimes.  Like, gonna win.  Like a little girl.  Some other girl, they're like this.  Oh, I'm going to win.  Finally we tank.  This time I hang in there, so you could say best result, yes.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT