QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 28, 2020
Su-Wei Hsieh
Barbora Strycova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. HSIEH, B. STRYCOVA/G. Dabrowski, J. Ostapenko   
6-2, 5-7, 10-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Can you talk through the match a little bit, it got sticky there in the second set, but you rebounded well, obviously in the super-tiebreak.  
BARBORA STRYCOVA: Yeah, we start like 0-2 in two minutes, but we bounce back and we were playing really good, I have to say. We were crossing a lot, we were aggressive and it was 6-2 pretty quickly and then 4-1.   
And then it started to roll on the other side because I was missing three easy volleys and I was kind of very frustrated about it because we could lead even more. And I was thinking about it, so it got a little bit complicated at the end.   
But at the tiebreak I think we got together everything and we were playing really good tennis, I have to say, very aggressive, very doubles.   
So I am very happy, not just about today, but about these two weeks. We had really amazing two weeks, winning so many matches, winning so many battles and it showed us also I think that we are very strong mentally.   
 Q.  You were just the second team to ever win Doha and Dubai back-to-back, which is pretty cool. So what do you think has been the key of getting all of those wins the last two weeks?  
SU-WEI HSIEH: Oh, I don't know, I was keeping telling her, Just relax this tournament and then we win the first tournament in Dubai and then this tournament I say, Oh, just relax again. And then she helped the team to win the title (laughing).   
BARBORA STRYCOVA: Yeah, it also means a lot for us. It's not easy to always travel from Dubai, then here. You know, we play also singles, so it's a lot of like a lot of matches, but also like it's tough mentally and physically.   
And we got together and it's great, I mean we are the second team, like you said, so it's really unbelievable we should be proud of us.   
 Q.  You should. And Su-Wei, you will return to number one.  
BARBORA STRYCOVA: Again? That's cool. Nice. I was kind of surprised, last week we won the tournament, I dropped three places. I was like, Yeah, great, you winning the tournament and you dropping three places.   
SU-WEI HSIEH: Sorry.   
BARBORA STRYCOVA: But that's great. Congratulations again.   
SU-WEI HSIEH: Thank you. (Laughing.)   
 Q.  But I mean when Barbora got to No. 1 last year she credited and thanked you a lot in terms of helping her to do that. Now obviously your partnership with her this year has helped you get to No. 1 twice now this year. How does that kind of feel for you?  
SU-WEI HSIEH: Definitely Barbora helps a lot too because I was not thinking about No. 1 at the Australian Open or here, but once I get to No. 1 I was like, Oh, I'm back to No. 1, so thank you.   
BARBORA STRYCOVA: Feels nice, right? Yeah.   
 Q.  And then just 17-1 is your record this year as a doubles team. Just one loss. So, I mean, to start the year and have this level of success right away, how does that feel, Barbora?  
BARBORA STRYCOVA: It feels unreal, kind of. But I always say to myself that it's awesome, it's really great, it's a great effort what we are doing on the court, but we have to also appreciate it as well and not to take it like it's like normal whatever. It's not. It's really tough and every match is tough and everyone is playing against us really high level and we have to continue playing the high level for right now two weeks and we did that.   
So like I said, we should be proud of ourself and we have many tournaments in front of us and it can change quickly, but we are trying every single day to fight for it and to be motivated for it. And sometimes it's not easy, but we are, I think, handling it very good.   
SU-WEI HSIEH: Barbora, you know we cannot win every tournament, but if you keep winning you will become No. 1 too.   
BARBORA STRYCOVA: Okay. (Laughing.)   
SU-WEI HSIEH: No pressure.   
BARBORA STRYCOVA: No pressure. (Laughing.) No pressure. But it's also good that I think we both enjoy ourselves on court and it's the key to success. If you like what you do and you enjoying it, even though if it's hard times sometimes -- like for me was today when we were leading 4-1 -- so it's great.   
 Q.  It looked like fairly straightforward match in that you won the first set comfortably and you guys were up a break in the second set and then all of a sudden the momentum shifts and they come back, they win the second set. What did you guys talk about? I know you spoke to your coach as well during the second and third set. How did you refocus so quickly and come back so strong and win the match tie break 10-2?  
BARBORA STRYCOVA: Well, I exactly tell you what we talked about, to calm me down and gets ready for a tiebreak, because I was frustrated of the mistakes I did at the net. I went for it, but it didn't go through, the volleys, it was pretty kind of like easy volleys and I was thinking about it for too long. And the tiebreak can go really quick, so coach and Su-Wei tried to calm me down, which helped me. And then I got together and, yeah, so that's why we won, I think, that tiebreak.   
Because we were doing everything kind of right, but the small steps we were missing and it was just three balls kind of. So we didn't have to change anything, any tactic or whatever, we have to stick to the game, but being more positive.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT