BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL
January 11, 2020
Su-Wei Hsieh
Barbora Strycova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
HSIEH, STRYCOVA/Kichenok, Yang   
7-6, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: First question.   
 Q.  Congratulations. How does it feel to continue being very good at doubles in 2020?  
BARBORA STRYCOVA: It feels great, especially it's our, yeah, well actually it's the first tournament, but I think we are playing well already from the beginning of this tournament. And of course, there are some moments or strikes we can improve, but, yes, it's nice to see that we play well.   
 Q.  Was it an easy decision to keep playing doubles together in this season? Was it an easy choice for you to keep playing doubles with Barbara in 2020?  
SU-WEI HSIEH: Definitely, yes.   
 Q.  What makes her fun to play with?  
SU-WEI HSIEH: She always try very hard so I don't need to worry too much (laughing).   
BARBORA STRYCOVA: I didn't know that, that she doesn't worry.   
 Q.  What are your sort of goals together as a team this year now that you've -- you won a Grand Slam, obviously. What else do you want to do?  
SU-WEI HSIEH: Yes, we won a Grand Slam. Yeah, I think it will be a big focus to play very good on Grand Slams tournament. But every time we play we want to play as good as we can because I don't want to say like Grand Slams are the most important, of course they are on the highest rank, but just also enjoying playing and having fun is, it's important for our tennis.   
 Q.  Su-Wei, I haven't seen you yet this week. What did you do in your off-season?  
SU-WEI HSIEH: I was in Paris, in Warsaw, in Taipei, and then I was in Melbourne, so I was flying everywhere to have some fun and to see the apartment and to get my apartment ready in Taipei. So much stuff to do.   
 Q.  What were you doing with your apartment?  
SU-WEI HSIEH: I --   
BARBORA STRYCOVA: Cleaning (laughing).   
SU-WEI HSIEH: Yeah. I've been doing the work two years ago and then I haven't get it done to put all the furniture in, because I play a lot of tournaments. It's very tough to get it done.   
 Q.  What were you doing in Warsaw?  
SU-WEI HSIEH: I went to holiday for a weekend.   
 Q.  Nice. What did you do there?  
SU-WEI HSIEH: My boyfriend has a friend there so they make a little party in the room with the music, with the lights, so it was quite fun. And then we went out to walk in the city and I enjoyed the food there, so it was quite interesting to see the city when you are not in the tournament.   
 Q.  You guys play against Barty and Bertens in the final. What do you expect from them?  
BARBORA STRYCOVA: Well, Ash and Kiki, they are huge hitters and they are such talented players, especially Ash is great I think, she's playing great doubles, so it's going to be a big and tough match, we have to play really good and high level tennis to have chance even to win tomorrow. But it's going to be nice because the crowd are here and they are coming to watch even doubles, women's doubles, which is really nice, I like that, and tomorrow will be even more because it's Ash on court.   
 Q.  What did you think of the crowd today? It seemed really good for your match.  
BARBORA STRYCOVA: Yes, and I was very surprised that they stayed also yesterday last night. It was -- they are awesome. Like I said, it's really nice to see that and it's also, for us to play in front of such a crowd, which we are not used to normally for women's doubles, it's great, I liked it a lot. You can see that they appreciate it and also that they enjoy it as well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT