CITI OPEN
August 1, 2019
Su-Wei Hsieh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. HSIEH/V. Gracheva
7-5, 4-6, 7-6
Q. What are your thoughts on that match?  There were a lot of ups and downs in that match.
SU-WEI HSIEH: Yeah, it was not easy.  She was changing a lot in the match and she was improving when she was down, so it was very tough.
Q. How did you mentally stay on course?
SU-WEI HSIEH: I was not thinking too much, but I was thinking it's very important on 6-All because I was holding my service since after 3-2, the final set.  So I was like, yeah, I got a point, next one I make it, and I make it.
Q. She's obviously very young.  What about her game impressed you?
SU-WEI HSIEH: Yes, it was better than I think because I was trying to hit it a little bit harder and then she's not giving a lot of mistakes, and I just keep leaving it somewhere else, not in the court, so she giving me some pressure, and I give myself some pressure.  So I tried to handle the pressure on the court and sometimes she managed it pretty well and sometimes she get me.  There was so much up and down, like you say.
Q. She's a teenager, but when you were 15 you were on the Challenger circuit.  What do you think of all these young players coming up, and do you have any advice or wisdom for them?  What would you say to them?
SU-WEI HSIEH: The new generation was different than my generation because now they are more powerful and they have better assistants to help them, and you can see there are so many young girls coming on the tour that play really well.  They know every shot, they can serve with speed.  I don't want to see the number on the board.
Q. This is your first event since winning Wimbledon doubles; how were your emotions after that big event, and did that change your schedule?  Did that change your preparation, anything like that?
SU-WEI HSIEH: You know, after I have two Grand Slam doubles, I was thinking I would not get too excited after I win another one, but that was pretty exciting.  I don't know, but I was like surprised, and it was an amazing moment to win again with Barbara because we was helping each other and supporting each other and we were smiling on the court.  Everything was really, really good.  Even when we were not doing good, we would say, it's okay, we had fun, we enjoy it, and it was a lot of fun with Barbara, yes.
Q. Afterwards, Barbara went to No. 1, and you said when you were going to the court that you were thinking about that a lot, but when you stepped on the court and started to play, you forgot about it.  You didn't have any pressure.  You weren't worried about the No. 1?
SU-WEI HSIEH: Before the match, I was thinking, wow, she's going to be No. 1 if we're in.  But when I go on the court I was very focused, so that's very good.
Q. So you don't remember when you were No. 1?
SU-WEI HSIEH: That was a long time ago.
Q. Have you been to Washington before?  What do you think of Washington as a city?  Do you like it here?
SU-WEI HSIEH: It's pretty nice.  I went to White House, and they say you need to get the paperwork from the embassy, so I hope I can stay a little bit longer and go to the embassy and get the paperwork to go to the White House.
Q. Anything else you've seen in Washington, too?
SU-WEI HSIEH: Any suggestions?
Q. Yeah, sure.  I don't know if you like museums but we have a lot of free museums.
SU-WEI HSIEH: You have very good museums.  I see the Chinese girl, and they have a small Chinese girl, they do it with the Chinese guy, the beautiful woman with the clothes has a wing and flying on the sky and was like this big.  But it was a long time ago.  I think it's a very meaning one.  It was amazing.  I don't remember which museum.
Q. What are your goals for the hard court season, singles and doubles?  Any goals?
SU-WEI HSIEH: Sleep good, eat good, and I hope I can go to the museum and the zoo and try to find a steak to eat.  The steak is famous American food, right?  Steak, hamburger, french fries is not American --
Q. French fries can be.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT