MIAMI OPEN PRESENTED BY ITAú
March 25, 2019
Su-Wei Hsieh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. HSIEH/C. Wozniacki   
6-3, 6-7, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  It was such a tough tiebreak for you.  How did you turn it around to start playing so well in the third?  
SU-WEI HSIEH: At the third was just very fresh.  I don't know why.  I feel my leg, it was live, and it was feeling so fresh, and I just go on the court and play, and that's what happen.   
 Q.  Was it easy after having a big win over No. 1 to put that behind you and start over for a new match?  Because sometimes after players have a huge win they are still distracted or something in the next match.  
SU-WEI HSIEH: I don't have this problem (smiling).   
 Q.  Can you just talk through the match a little bit today?  First of all, with your preparation, what your game plan was against Wozniacki, and then what do you think you did particularly well to get the win?  
SU-WEI HSIEH: I was thinking to be aggressive, but mostly I was thinking she gonna make no mistake, she gonna catch all the balls, and she does.   
So sometime I was trying too much, you know, because with her game, if you go a little bit slower, she coming in and she can attack.  If you hitting the ball big, she still can catch the ball.  So sometime you don't win the point, and then you go a little bit more you can make more mistake.  And I did, as well.   
So I try to fix my, how to say the reason, and put my pace a little bit more in the court today.  This, it going very well today.  Yeah.   
 Q.  Having played and won so many matches this year, do you feel like that experience really helped you today?  Whereas maybe in the past it might have been a different story in the third set?  
SU-WEI HSIEH: I don't know.  You know, last year I have a very tough schedule in Seoul.  I play four match in 22 hours, including two singles and two doubles.  So every time (indiscernible) I will say nothing is worse than Seoul.  So I will be fine, I will be good, and I will feel fresh.   
 Q.  A lot of different players now have been talking about you and your game and how different it is.  Do you sense a different reaction from players now when you're coming to play matches against them?  They know you're going to be very difficult to beat?  
SU-WEI HSIEH: Okay, I will try to work hard.  Thank you, girls.   
 Q.  Up next you play Anett Kontaveit.  Anett said that you'd practiced and shared a coach at some point.  Can you talk about her as an opponent?  
SU-WEI HSIEH: Yes, a very, very lovely, nice girl.  She hit the ball different than other girls.  Maybe more like Naomi Osaka, because they both very aggressive.   
I don't know.  I will wait what my team, my brother and my boyfriend say.  So I cannot comment more right now.   
 Q.  This week you have beaten two players you have never beaten before.  How do you explain that?  Did you figure them out?  What happened?  
SU-WEI HSIEH: I think the worst thing, it just going to 0-4 or 0-5, so I have nothing to worry about it.  Yeah, so I never beat them before, so I have less pressure than them.   
As now I feel like when I go on the court, I feel more relaxed than before.  I don't know why.  Because before you go into the big court, I feel I'm a new girl and I never been to this court, and I feel like, Wow, I'm, like, 18 years old, I walk into this big court, and now I little bit get into the situation, so I feel better.   
 Q.  (Off microphone.)  
SU-WEI HSIEH: You feel I play better now?  How do you think?  Yes?  Okay.  Then I play better.  Thank you.   
 Q.  Just going back to Kontaveit, she said you were practice partners.  Was this during the off-season?  Can you give a little bit more explanation as to when that time was?  
SU-WEI HSIEH: Oh, that was a few years ago.  That's only time I practice with a girl I make three ace.  I still remember.  Because normally my game is not like ace, ace, ace, but that time was just practice, and she was hitting the ball so hard.  So I was thinking, okay, it's a practice.  So I gonna go super hard.   
So I remember the practice only the three ace, and she hit the ball very hard.  I don't remember other stuff.   
 Q.  Do you like practicing against players that are powerful like that?  Or do you prefer players who can catch a lot of balls?  
SU-WEI HSIEH: You know, I have a very difficult situation this year.  Since Australian Open or Auckland, I'm pretty hard to get one game in the practice.  So I was, like, Okay, I don't know what happen on the court.  Maybe it gonna happen like this on the court.  So I just go on the court.   
If I play really bad, I don't sweat (phonetic).  So I need to be patient and stay at the court and I hope I can smile if I play something really bad, and I do it very well, and then I win some matches.  So thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT