129TH PREAKNESS STAKES
May 15, 2004
Roy Chapman
Patricia Chapman
Stewart Elliott
John Servis
Sherry Servis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








STEWART ELLIOTT:  No, I wasn't worried.  I was a little concerned.  I didn't want to get him in a jackpot, I just wanted to have clear sailing for this horse, and I figured, you know, as long as we didn't get in a jackpot, we'd be fine.  As it worked out, he had me out in the middle of the track, but there was no chance of getting boxed out and I figure if he had me out there now, I may as well stay where I'm at 'til he get down the backside.  I figured I had the option of seeing Mike Smith, we get him back in.  If we didn't have it in by the next turn, I was going to go inside of him.  That's what happened.  The horse had plenty of horse.

STEWART ELLIOTT:  Like I said once I got down the backside, I was outside of Lion Heart.  I seen Mike looked like he had a little trouble.  He wasn't going to get him back in.  My only concern was to close this, I didn't want to have the rail left wide open, me getting carried out and them have clear sailing on the inside.  So it didn't seem to matter where I was on the track.  My horse was just, you know, running so easy, so I just took him to the inside and he did the rest.

PATRICIA CHAPMAN:  You take it, Chappy.  I guess, I really can.  Today a very tough race.  I just love sitting here listening to Stewart when he was getting aboard that horse in Kentucky.  I think somebody called him Stu Who, a novice rider.  You just heard a description of that race.  If that sounds like a novice rider, I'll kiss your you know what.

PATRICIA CHAPMAN:  Who can add to that.  Who can follow that?

JOHN SERVIS:  I was obviously concerned going into the race.  Somebody asked me in there if I was as confident as I was going into the Derby.  I said no, I'm not.  I think he's coming back in two weeks.  He was a little vulnerable.  I would like to have another week with him.  However, with that being said, he came out of the Derby so good, we elected to come to the Preakness.  I knew he had to come with his best game, and I was a little concerned about that and he, once again, everything I've asked him for, he stepped up to two plate. 

STEWART ELLIOTT:  No, I don't think so.  First, he handled the race very easily, galloped out strong and he wasn't even really blowing that hard after the race.  It didn't seem like, you know, it took much out of him at all.  And the mile and a half, I think he's just, you know, he'll do whatever I want him to.  So I don't think that will be a problem.

SHERRY SERVIS:  Just having all the support from everyone out there, I can get through anything just knowing everyone's on our side and backing us up.

JOHN SERVIS:  I think it's a real good day.  I think everybody in Philadelphia is happy.  I just like to say one thing back to the earlier question.  The fact that my wife made the sacrifices that she made for the last six months for my operation for the Chapman's, for the whole team, that says a lot about her character.  I love her for it.

JOHN SERVIS:  Twenty-three years.

SHERRY SERVIS:  I want to know if we can get the interest from all the ones they weren't able to give out.

JOHN SERVIS:  Blane was here with us.  Tyler was not.  Tyler was home back in Philadelphia.

JOHN SERVIS:  Again, you know, I have to see how he comes out of this race and how he's acting.  The fact that it's three weeks, you know, if he comes out of it, good.  I don't see any reason why we won't go to New York.


Q. What is different with Smarty Jones than all the other horses you've ridden?  I'll throw in a follow-up.  Are you going to be riding a four thousand dollar claimer on Monday? 

STEWART ELLIOTT:  No.  I tell you what, this horse is by far the best horse I've ever been on.  He just has so much ability and, you know, now he's learned to relax and he's push-button now.  He's just a great horse. 

STEWART ELLIOTT:  Yes, I was pretty confident.

JOHN SERVIS:  I know I said before I haven't been able to get him tired, just the fact like Stew just mentioned the fact that he's really matured and learned how to race, he has that tactical speed.  He has the ability to go to the next gear the way he does (in audible ) I think there's some room for improvement.

STEWART ELLIOTT:  I hope.  It would be nice.

PATRICIA CHAPMAN:  I pay the bills.  We discuss everything with John and Stew.  They're the experts.  That's why we have a trainer.

STEWART ELLIOTT:  Yeah, he did.  He told me, he said your horse looks pretty good on paper.  He said, I think you'll go all the way.  He says, you got the Derby underneath your belt.  Just go for it.  He said don't worry about nothing.  And he said just be confident and I'll be rooting for you.

STEWART ELLIOTT:  Sure.  The past, you know, I just think about the past and I look where I was and now the future look where I am.  So...

JOHN SERVIS:  I'll sit down with Mr. and Mrs. Chapman this evening.  We'll discuss that.  The original plan is to ship him back to Philadelphia late tomorrow morning.  We'll sit down, map out a plan, and see how he comes out of the race and decide what we want to do.   

JOHN SERVIS:  I've seen that every time.  I just really wasn't aware of it until actually reporter brought it up to me, said that Millie Turner made the comment and he saw Seattle Slew make a transformation in the stall.  He seemed like just a formal horse as he got closer to the paddock.  He seemed to transform into this great horse.  And as he's asking me this question, I'm listening to him saying it.  I'm saying, oh, my God.  That's my horse.  That's what he does.  The closer he gets to the paddock, the more he transforms into something special.

PATRICIA CHAPMAN:  I don't think he could hear.  There's so many people talking over here.  We're having trouble hearing.

JOHN SERVIS:  I can tell you I spoke to the director of racing yesterday in Philadelphia Park.

JOHN SERVIS:  He informed me what they wagered yesterday at Philadelphia Park on Smarty Jones and, quite frankly, I was in shock.  You know, and I was kidding with him.  I said, gee, thanks.  Sal put some more weight on his back.  But he's certainly a sentimental favorite, absolutely.

JOHN SERVIS:  The only change for me was in his training.  We did a whole lot less with him, and quite frankly, Stew and I talked in the paddock, and I told Stew, I said, it looks to me like it could be a lot the same race, and good luck.  He started talking about this, everything except for the race.  I let Stew ride the race, because I can't give him a bunch of -- I don't want to put too much in his head, number one.  Number two, you don't know how things are going to unfold out there.  When you got a rider like this, let him go out there and do his job.

ROY (Chappy) CHAPMAN:  Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes.

STEWART ELLIOTT:  I believe -- yes.  Yes.

ROY (Chappy) CHAPMAN:  I think I did pretty good, I really do.  I made my mind up I was going the try to stay a little calmer.  The Derby was a little nerve wracking.  Things were handled here perfectly.  I was perfectly taken care of Pimlico, my hotel.  We had the greatest police escort coming here you've ever seen in your life.  We had a heck of a good time.  I was really pretty calm.  I had to hold the tears back a little bit.  Really, emotionally it really hit me just how good this horse is.  I was like John, I didn't sleep too good last night.  There was a lot of good horses in this race.  You know, you hear about this, you hear about that.  I thought he might win, but I never thought he would blow them away like he blew them away.  I'm just happy.

JOHN SERVIS:  Again, it just -- I mean, that's Stewart.  You know, everybody's getting a chance to see the guy that I see ride races like that every day in Philadelphia Park.  I'm happy for him.  I mean, he's getting to know the notoriety he deserves.  Unfortunately, for my horses in Philadelphia, I think I'll be looking for another rider before too long.  I'm happy for him.

ROY (Chappy) CHAPMAN:  So am I.

STEWART ELLIOTT:  I'm happy to be sitting here, part of this team.  Very proud.

JOHN SERVIS:  Once we got back to Philly, things were so nerve wracking.  It took about 24 hours and my wife stepped in and she said, I could see what this is doing to you, and I'm taking over and I'm going to get an appointment book and I'm going to work it out.  You'll have everything scheduled so you can take care of your job and then go do your things.  And she's done a great job.  I'm sure she'll continue to do a great job the next three weeks.  That's why we're a great team.

SHERRY SERVIS:  We can (in audible). 

STEWART ELLIOTT:  There was a couple of fresh horses in there that were new to me and, you know, we had to run by Lion Heart last time going a mile and a quarter.  This was just a little bit shorter.  So you know, I had to kind of watch both sides of me, in front of me and behind me, but I was pretty confident as long as things went good and that we were -- we had a good chance to win.  I didn't think we was going to win by 11 and some lengths, but I thought --

STEWART ELLIOTT:  We took the lead just turning for home, just inside the quarter pole, and I never turned my stick over.  I tapped him like two or three times just to let him know it was time to go.  And that was all he needed.

STEWART ELLIOTT:  I wanted to be safe, make sure nobody was coming before I just got comfortable on him.

STEWART ELLIOTT:  Ray has been behind me 100 percent.  Things are great.  He's helping me get through this and, you know, things are just working good.

STEWART ELLIOTT:  When I asked him turning for home, he responded like he did, and then I peaked back and nobody was coming.  I knew we were winning.  

JOHN SERVIS:  I was looking around a little bit.  As far as I my horse goes, he might have been the calmest horse in the paddock in the post parade when they walked out.  People were screaming and hollering, the horses were bouncing on their toes.  I'm looking at him.  He's walking along like he's going around the shed.  We schooled him Friday morning.  Mr. Wagner, the starter here, knew I was bringing him over, was ready for him, put the lead up on him.  He walked right in.  He's been doing really good at the gate the last three or four weeks.   

ROY (Chappy) CHAPMAN:  I think so.  You could have gotten that before I won the race. I got a couple of sons here, deliver you a car right today.

ROY (Chappy) CHAPMAN:  First thing I said Mr. Rendell.  Do me a favor, send me some.

JOHN SERVIS:  No, I don't think so.  I watched them all.  As far as training goes, you know, every horse is different.  How I think he wants to train.  We'll continue (inaudible) 

STEWART ELLIOTT:  That's good.  That's very good.  That means he was just very comfortable.

STEWART ELLIOTT:  Yes.

JOHN SERVIS:  Yes. 

STEWART ELLIOTT:  There was nobody in front of me.  I was concerned if anybody was coming from behind.  Once I asked him, we straightened up and I asked him, I just exploded.  Then I looked back and see nobody was even coming, so I knew it was going to be pretty easy.

ROY (Chappy) CHAPMAN:  I want to make one announcement.  I love the press, but my wife and I are going to take up residence in Nome, Alaska in the next three weeks.  We'll see you in New York.

ROY (Chappy) CHAPMAN:  Go ahead.

ROY (Chappy) CHAPMAN:  What do I think it's done for racing? 

ROY (Chappy) CHAPMAN:  Is that the question? 

ROY (Chappy) CHAPMAN:  I really hope, I pray it helps racing.  Racing is a good sport, a clean sport, and employs an awful lot of people.  There's lot of people we find out.  We went to the track to meet the Governor don't even know how to bet on a race that were there, just to see the horse.  A guy can take his family, I don't know, down here, to the Philadelphia Park, park your car for nothing, nothing to get in, take your family let them play on a picnic you can take 40, $50 race, two dollars a race, six dollars a race, have a blast for the day.  A lot of people really don't know what that feels like to see your horse you bet on come running down that stretch.  I don't care if it's Smarty Jones or a 20 thousand dollar claimer.  It's a thrill watching a horse coming down that stretch and you got to bet on him.  It's a big thrill.

ROY (Chappy) CHAPMAN:  Did I what?  I just got that one.  I'm Jesus Christ, I am getting old.  I trained him what do you hell do you mean did I see him run?
ROY (Chappy) CHAPMAN:  John would have to do.  Two completely different horses Seabiscuit.  (inaudible)  We're going to put it off as long as we can.  That's all.

ROY (Chappy) CHAPMAN:  To me it does, yes.  Don't get me wrong I'm not going the send that money back to anybody it's not going if change my style of living my wife's style of living, not going to change my children's style of living.  Thank God.  We're doing okay I'm not going to turn the money out.  I sure hope it helps racing that's my big hope I really do.

STEWART ELLIOTT:  Well, I think I'm getting used to it.  I imagine it's going to be the same, but I'm handling it all right and we'll just deal with it.

JOHN SERVIS:  Well, I had it set up for the horses the leave at 10, and I just told Mike I'll meet with everybody after I get him on the van and get them on their way 1030. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT