WIMBLEDON
July 3, 2004
Miles Kasiri
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Good afternoon, everyone.  Miles Kasiri for you.  
 
 
Q.  Must be a bit overwhelming being in here with all these people, being a Wimbledon finalist. 
 
MILES KASIRI:  Well, yeah, it's not really overwhelming being in the final, because I expected it anyway before I even came here.  I'm just happy that I reached my goal and I'm in the final now.  
 
Q.  That's quite a high expectation to put on yourself before a Grand Slam. 
 
MILES KASIRI:  Yeah, that's true.  A lot of people say that.  But, I mean, if I don't set my standards high, then I'm not going to get very far.  I have to do that. 
 
Q.  Are we looking at the new Tim Henman from what you just said?
 
MILES KASIRI:  (Smiling) well, if I achieve as much as him in my career, then that would be amazing for me.  But, I mean, obviously I'm not trying to be like him or anything.  I'm my own player and my own person, so...  
 
Q.  How difficult was it having to go to sleep last night, knowing that you were still in a match mode? 
 
MILES KASIRI:  Same as any other night.  I didn't have any problems sleeping or anything.  I don't really get nervous before the match.  Maybe when I'm on the court a little bit.  But, no, I was fine.  
 
Q.  Have you been through that experience before, being held up overnight like that? 
 
MILES KASIRI:  Actually, no, that's the first time it's ever happened to me.  But it was fine. 
 
Q.  What's your plans for the Seniors?  Are you going to be moving up soon and playing on the Senior tour? 
 
MILES KASIRI:  Yeah, actually I'm playing -- as soon as -- after my final tomorrow, I have to go to Nottingham to play in some challengers on grass there.  So I'm hoping to do well in those tournaments, as well.  
 
Q.  Do you hope to come back next year and make an impact in the main draw?
 
MILES KASIRI:  Yeah, of course.  That's what I'll be working for, yeah.  
 
Q.  How did you feel after today's victory? 
 
MILES KASIRI:  Uhm, well, I was very happy that I actually got to finish the match, you know, because yesterday I took -- it was a long first set, but I took it 7-6.  I really wanted to finish the match before the weather came, but I didn't get to.  I was just happy that I was able to finish the match and now I know I'm in the final.  
 
Q.  You got Monfils in the final.  Have you played him before?  What are your thoughts on him?
 
MILES KASIRI:  Yeah, I've played him last year in the US Open actually, and I lost to him in the first round there.  I know he's a very, very good player, an extremely good athlete.  He's won the Australian Open and the French Open this year.  So, I mean, he's only lost one match this year already on the Juniors.  So obviously it's going to be the toughest match I've had so far, by far.  I'll just have to try -- if I want to win, I'll just have to try to everything the best I can.  
 
Q.  Is he sort of the Federer of the Juniors?
 
MILES KASIRI:  Yeah.  Well, he's kind of unbeaten, yeah, since before the Australian Open.  So, yeah.  
 
Q.  What do you think you'll have to do? 
 
MILES KASIRI:  I'll just have to, you know -- even if I'm behind, just try and stay with him, try and do all the things I do best.  Try and serve well, try and return well, and try and be consistent, as well. 
 
Q.  What did you feel you did well against Jenkins?
 
MILES KASIRI:  Uhm, against -- well, actually yesterday in the first set, I didn't really do anything well.  I don't think he did either, because the weather was just so windy that neither of us could really like -- even if you had a ball on top of the net, it was hard to put it away because the wind was swirling so hard.  It was just a horrible first set.  But today it was also very windy, but I think I was much more consistent than him on the serve and from the back and everything.  In the end of the day, I won the match because I was more consistent and he made errors before I did.  
 
Q.  Everyone in Britain is looking for the next Tim Henman.  How much pressure does that put on you and other Junior players?
 
MILES KASIRI:  Well, I can't speak for the other Junior players.  But for me, I mean, doesn't matter what other people are saying, I mean, it's good that they're looking maybe to me to do something in the game.  But the only pressure I feel is the pressure I put on myself.  It's not going to affect me, what other people are saying.  
 
Q.  Tomorrow will obviously be a big occasion, possibly a show court.  Are you going to approach it differently, the whole occasion of it?  Do you think you'll be nervous beforehand? 
 
MILES KASIRI:  I might be nervous, yeah.  Obviously, extremely excited as well that I'm in the final and I might be playing on a show court.  So, yeah, I guess I might be nervous when I go on the court.  But, I mean, I'll be very excited and having so much fun as well that it will probably go away. 
 
Q.  You think the situation and the occasion will inspire you?
 
MILES KASIRI:  Yeah, exactly, yeah.  
 
Q.  While you were in Florida at the Bollettieri Academy, did you come across Maria Sharapova?
 
MILES KASIRI:  Yeah.  I knew her about two years -- well, when I went there when I was about 14 and she was 13 or 12.  Yeah, we trained together a few times, with her father.  That was good.  
 
Q.  Did she seem outstanding then?  Did she seem like someone who at the age of 17, could be --
 
MILES KASIRI:  Oh, yeah.  Even when she was 13, she used to beat everyone, even the older guys.  And she worked extremely hard, so.  
 
Q.  It's great to hear you say as a Brit that you're trying to win your matches from your strengths.  Is that something that came through from Bollettieri, find out what your assets are and then build your game around that, don't worry about anything else? 
 
MILES KASIRI:  Yeah, I suppose I learnt -- that's the attitude they teach you over there.  But I think I had that anyway.  It's just natural to me to not worry too much about my opponent or who's on the other side of the court, but just whether I'm winning or losing easily or whatever, just try and concentrate on myself. 
 
Q.  There's been a lot of criticism over the years about the amount of money the LTA gets and the returns from the Junior players.  Coming back from being at the Bollettieri Academy, now under the LTA umbrella, what are the differences and your assessment of the LTA coaching assistance for Juniors?  Sorry, that's not very fair. 
 
MILES KASIRI:  Well, it's obviously different because, I mean, over there, obviously people are working a lot harder.  Yeah, it's a lot like, over there, they're not afraid to hurt you or to push you into doing something.  Even if at the end of the day if I was tired, if you're tired, and you don't want to do anymore, they're going to make you do it because they know it's good for you, even if you don't want to.  I know the LTA, since I've come back in September, it's been very good for me.  They're provided me with a very good coach and fitness training and everything like that.  So, I mean, it's very good for me.  Yeah, they don't have the same kind of work ethic.  So, I mean, that just comes down to me.  I just to make sure I work myself hard enough.  
 
Q.  What's more daunting for you, going out and playing tennis matches or having to walk into a room like this, sit and face a press conference like this?  Is this more daunting than actually going out and playing tennis?
 
MILES KASIRI:  No, no.  
 
Q.  You're quite comfortable?
 
MILES KASIRI:  Yeah, it's fine.  
 
Q.  When was a tennis racquet first put in your hand?
 
MILES KASIRI:  Actually probably when I was only a few weeks old.  I wasn't playing, but when I was like six months old, I have pictures of me with a tennis racquet because my parents were always playing before I was born.  So, yeah.  
 
Q.  Have you come from the hard side of life or the good side of life?  Have there been amazing sacrifices on behalf of your family or have you been financed quite happily along the way?
 
MILES KASIRI:  Well, yeah, I'm not really from a wealthy family or anything, but I'm not from, you know, like a family that goes through big struggles either.  I mean, but I've had a lot of, you know, help with all the finance since I was 12 or 13, because even when I was training in Bollettieri's, I was on a full scholarship there with Nick.  I didn't really have to pay for much.  But still obviously over the years, trying to bring someone up as a tennis player, you know, before you have sponsors, all the traveling and the racquets and everything, it costs a lot of money, so...  
 
Q.  You spend most of your time in America or over here?  Where are you based now?
 
MILES KASIRI:  I'm based here in Queen's now.  I don't go back to America anymore.  
 
Q.  What would you say your strengths are in playing the game?  What would you say are your strong points?
 
MILES KASIRI:  Well, I'm not -- you know, especially I've said on grass, I'm not someone who has a huge serve or great volleys like that.  But I think what I do well, I think I'm more of a baseliner, but I'm consistent from the back.  And I also use a lot of power sometimes, as well, and I can return well.  So I think some people see it as bad that sometimes I can get frustrated on the court, stuff like that.  But I think that helps me because it makes me more determined, you know, I care more.  I want to win more.  
 
Q.  Do you think your self-belief is probably your biggest strength?
 
MILES KASIRI:  Yeah.  Well, it's obviously a strength.  It helps me.  If I'm playing someone like tomorrow in the final, I'm playing someone who is an extremely good player and he's already been doing very well in the ATP tournaments, as well, so it's very tough.  When I'm playing people like that, I have to believe or I'm not going to do well.  
 
Q.  You say when you're out there, the comment you made was that "they make you work harder."  Are you putting yourself under sort of a trial period here in terms of comparing your improvement here as a result of being in America, and maybe the decision is open to go back if you feel that's going to level off a little bit?
 
MILES KASIRI:  No. 
 
Q.  Or are you here to stay?
 
MILES KASIRI:  I can't say what I'll be doing for the next few years.  I don't have any plans now to go back to the US.  No way.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT