THE 148TH OPEN
July 18, 2019
Curtis Knipes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Well played.
CURTIS KNIPES: Thank you.
Q. What was it like?  Are you pleased with your performance today?
CURTIS KNIPES: Fairly.  I played pretty solid.  It got pretty tough coming in, obviously we had a bit of rain.  And it's quite a brutal finish around here.  But reasonably happy under the pressure.
Q. Did you feel it?
CURTIS KNIPES: Yes.  I'd be lying if I said I didn't.  The first tee shot is probably the most nervous I've been.  Every shot out there you kind of think you settle in, and you do, but you kind of stand over a putt, so you do feel it the whole way around.
Q. What could you hear from the crowd?
CURTIS KNIPES: Yeah, there was quite a lot of support.  They like it when you roll a putt in, which is good.  That kind of gets me fired up a little bit.  It's really fun out there.
Q. By the end of the round, do you feel you've coped with the occasion pretty well?
CURTIS KNIPES: Yeah, I'd say fairly.  I could have played quite a bit better.  But reasonably happy.
Q. You're in contention?
CURTIS KNIPES: Yeah, it's not too bad.  I think for links you see your draw, and your first-round score sometimes doesn't really matter.  You could go out tomorrow, so you never really know.
Q. How impressive is it to see someone to go 4-under today?
CURTIS KNIPES: Yeah, that's fairly good golf.  Especially with the pressure.  It's impressive out there.
Q. So what's the goal?
CURTIS KNIPES: Obviously got my eyes on the silver medal.  Making the cut obviously would be great.  But silver medal is probably the one.
Q. What about friends and family out there cheering you on?
CURTIS KNIPES: Yeah, they came out yesterday.  We had quite a few guys from the club, a few friends, girlfriend, and family.
Q. Were they more nervous than you?
CURTIS KNIPES: Probably not, to be fair.  I don't know how that would be possible.
Q. Given how well you played when you're walking down the 18th and you saw those big yellow scoreboards, what was that feeling like?
CURTIS KNIPES: Yeah, pretty crazy really, pretty crazy.  Fairly happy with how I played, like I said.
Q. But the job is not done yet?
CURTIS KNIPES: No, you can't really be too satisfied, especially this early.
Q. Talk to us about the third hole.
CURTIS KNIPES: Yeah, the third hole, it was close to being pretty bad.  Just had a putt down the hill, and gave a roll and it went in.  And the crowd went pretty crazy.  Louder than I thought they would be.
Q. How long was that putt there?
CURTIS KNIPES: 15 feet, maybe.  It was just that pin was tucked quite close to the fringe.  So I was only off the green about 15 feet.
Q. Which was the moment for you during the round?
CURTIS KNIPES: It's tough to say, really.  I holed a few good par putts out there, one on 11.  I got myself into a little bit of trouble off the tee and had to lay up.  Must have been about 25-30 foot for par.  That was quite good.  And that kept me going, after having one on the front nine.
Q. How were the nerves on the first tee?
CURTIS KNIPES: Yeah, never felt anything like it before, to be honest.  Luckily I hit a pretty good shot.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT