NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS vs WARRIORS
May 30, 2018
Jose Calderon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Talk about how LeBron's IQ is so high.  Can you give us an example of how his IQ is through the roof?
JOSE CALDERON: Well, I think you see it in the way he plays.  I think you don't really see bad stats for him.  You don't have to force anything.  If he's going to be double teamed, he's going to pass to the open teammate.  That's little stuff like that, even on defense or whatever.  It's about reading, being comfortable on the court.  We're comfortable with him.  We know what he wants and how he wants it, and just try to work through that.
But I think it's not a surprise by now.  He's been doing this for years.  It looks like he's even getting better about everything.  But he's great.  He knows everything.  He feels comfortable.  He makes us feel comfortable out there, and that's what matters.
Q. Were you disappointed at all that you didn't get to experience what it was like to be with this team [Golden State] that's done so many interesting things?
JOSE CALDERON: I never like to think back and say what if.  I think that is a stat you can't control, and I couldn't control what happened.  I think it was great fit.  Both parts did our best to make it work.  That night when I was ready to travel, Kevin Durant got injured, and I understood they needed a bigger guy, and it's what it was.
But like I said, because of that, I went to Atlanta, I played minutes.  Maybe those minutes gave me the opportunity for Cleveland to sign me.  You never know what happened.  It could be great.  We maybe could be talking in a different way right now, but it is what it is.
I'm happy to be here.  It's my first Finals.  I'm trying to enjoy this experience and give everything I have for my team.  Staying ready if my name is called, and kind of that's my mentality right now.
Q. What have you seen from LeBron over the last month that exemplifies why he's been able to make it to eight straight Finals?
JOSE CALDERON: Only the last month?  The whole season he's been amazing.  Like I said before, it's about his preparation, his mindset.  It doesn't matter what kind of game it is, he's ready.  He takes care of himself, his body.  He works on the court.  He's the first one in the gym.  He's watching film or whatever he needs to prepare his mind, his body.  It is amazing.
For sure, the last month, and with all those two Game 7s and the way he played against Toronto and all that stuff.  But it's been great.  He's a great leader off and on the court.  Lucky he is on our side.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT