ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 27, 2019
Matthew Jordan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. A wonderful round of 64 at St. Andrews. Could have been lower. How do you reflect on it?
MATTHEW JORDAN: It could have been. I'm obviously going to take it. After that start, I wanted to keep momentum, because I knew I would have chances. Then just try and go -- and when I do get them, just try and go as low as possible because the scoring is so good. You can't make a few birdies and think, oh, I've done my job.
Q. Talk about that start. You eagled the third and birdied 5. What's going through your mind at that stage?
MATTHEW JORDAN: What's going on. I just, yeah, I was just trying to play on it really and just carry on as much as I could. I was just free-wheeling it really. I wasn't thinking too much which is probably a good thing.
Q. When anybody goes out in 29 in a golf tournament, we start thinking 59. Did it ever cross your mind?
MATTHEW JORDAN: It did once. I had my friends here and they were quick to tell me that they wanted the same on the back nine. But yeah, I mean, it was in my head but really I knew the rain was coming in, as well.
Q. Obviously playing most of your golf on The Challenge Tour at the moment. Playing here on invitation, Lou did that invitation come about?
MATTHEW JORDAN: Well, I've done quite well recently. I had one more invite and gave myself the luxury of thinking, oh, try and play this because the field, prize money, links golf, which I love. So I just asked my guys, my managers, and tried to sort it out because I really wanted to play it and I absolutely love this place. Yeah, try to make the most of it.
Q. How big a sense of opportunity now this weekend?
MATTHEW JORDAN: Yeah, sure. I've had it in my mind. Kind of felt it out because it all came about quite quickly and the week was over before I knew it. Now I'm in this position, I want to make sure I kick on and take care of my golf, as well, instead of having the whole experience be oh, my God, kind of thing.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT