ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 26, 2019
Matthew Jordan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Well-played out there. What was working well for 6-under for the day?  
MATTHEW JORDAN: Just grinding away really. I putted quite well and I kind of -- when I gave myself a chance, say, from a hundred yards in, I kind of scored quite well. Because I didn't actually hit it that good off the tee. I was kind of struggling, but once I got that part of it done, the rest of it was fairly free flowing.   
 Q.  How did you enjoy it out here at Kingsbarns? Was it a test for you with the wind a bit swirling? How did you find it?  
MATTHEW JORDAN: The wind is fine I think. There's not too much of it so you can kind of use it in a way that if you're in between a club, you can either use it to hit one less or hold it up against it.   
So if you're clever with it, it's not actually too bad. But yeah, the place is great. It's hard to get depressed around here. You just have to -- if you have a bogey, just look out toward the sea and all your troubles go away kind of thing. This course is one of the most scenic courses I've ever played. It's brilliant.   
 Q.  How are you enjoying the format as well, this week? Obviously with the amateurs, and you have one of the English cricket greats with you?  
MATTHEW JORDAN: Yeah, they are all fairly competitive, aren't they, as well. So their mood is dictated by how they play but it's always fun especially when they hole a putt and they come in really happy. It takes a bit of getting used to at times, but yeah, it's that added extra bit of fun when they do well, anyway.   
 Q.  Now, as well, looking ahead to the next few days, obviously the changing of the courses, how are you preparing to that to switch to St. Andrews tomorrow?  
MATTHEW JORDAN: I know what kind of shots or what I'm going to do around there, so just going to try to play a bit better and score, as well. I don't know, just try and play as well as possible and try to do as good a score because that's all you can do.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT