JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 11, 2008
Eric Axley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DOUG MILNE: Eric Axley, thanks for joining us again here in round two of the John Deere Classic, another great round today, 66 on top of yesterday's 65. Just obviously you've still got the momentum going. Just a few comments about the round today. 
 ERIC AXLEY: Yeah, today I got off to a good start. I think I birdied three of the first four. Started on the back, so 10, 11 and 13. I bogeyed 15, but then when I turned, I made some birdies on the front and also missed some good opportunities. I hit the ball really good on the front and missed about a five- or six-footer on No. 4 and about a two-and-a-half-, three-footer on 8.
 I think I still shot 3-under, so I left a few out there but played solid.
 DOUG MILNE: I don't know if you've heard yet, but the decision was made to go threesomes off two tees tomorrow between 10:00 and 12:00. Does that affect you in any way, or do you just go on and play your game? 
 ERIC AXLEY: No, we just play our game. We're pretty accustomed to playing threesomes anyway. We do it obviously every Thursday and Friday. It will be a little bit slower, but you can't help what the weather gives you, right? 

 Q. What's the approach? What's the mindset going into the weekend now with you in this position on the leaderboard? 
 ERIC AXLEY: You know, it's still -- we're only halfway through the tournament, so I'm just trying to play how I've played the last couple days, put the ball in the right spot on the fairway so we can be aggressive into the pins and just try to make a few putts. 

 Q. Going to have to continue going low, or do you think things are going to level out?
 ERIC AXLEY: No, I think you've got to keep going low. It may level off a little bit. With the weather coming in, it may soften up again and you may even have to go lower, who knows. If it gets soft, there's no defense out there. 
 If it firms up a little bit, the scores are going to get a little higher. But no, I think you've got to keep making birdies. 

 Q. If it does rain, is that going to make it harder to go low? I mean, obviously it'll soften the greens, but it'll also soften the fairways, make it play a little longer?
 ERIC AXLEY: Yeah, it may make it play a little longer, but you're talking maybe a half club longer. No, I think the softness of the greens overweighs the firmness of the fairways. I think it'll play a little bit easier with softer greens for the most part.

 Q. Do you ever get sick of this PGA TOUR weather? Seems like it follows you guys wherever you go. 
 ERIC AXLEY: No. Beats the alternative, right? I like my job. 
 DOUG MILNE: If you wouldn't mind maybe just running through your birdies and just giving us some clubs. 
 ERIC AXLEY: 10, I drove it in the left rough and laid up to -- I had a lob wedge and I hit it to about three feet and made it.
 11, I hit 3-wood and 9-iron to about I think ten feet right behind the hole and made it.
 Birdie on 13 was driver, lob wedge to about five feet I think it was, and made it.
 Bogey on 15, hit a bad drive in the right rough and couldn't get on the green and didn't get up-and-down out of the bunker, so made bogey.
 Turned to 1, and I hit 3-wood, sand wedge, made about a 15-footer there. 
 No. 5, I hit 5-wood, sand wedge to about three and a half, four feet and made it.
 And then 6, I hit 3-iron, pitching wedge to about eight feet and made it. 

 Q. Does it take a bold man to wear pink? 
 ERIC AXLEY: That's what they send me, so I'll wear it.

 Q. You have no choice?
 ERIC AXLEY: That's right. The closet is getting bare right now. I need to do laundry.

 Q. Who are you with?
 ERIC AXLEY: Sub Seventy is the name of the company. They're from London.

 Q. Kind of an Ian Poulter kind of pant thing you had on yesterday. 
 ERIC AXLEY: Yeah, they make a lot of what they call tartan, what we would call plaid. They make a lot of tartan or plaid pants and have a lot of piping on their trousers. A lot of people say that it's similar, but yeah.

 Q. Does that fit your personality?
 ERIC AXLEY: Yes, it does. 

 Q. In what way?
 ERIC AXLEY: Colorful. I like to have fun. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT