CHRYSLER CLASSIC OF GREENSBORO
October 8, 2006
Eric Axley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TODD BUDNICK:  You won two weeks ago, top 5 this week.  Is golf any fun?
ERIC AXLEY:  I'm playing well right now.  I missed a few crucial putts, 17, 18.
TODD BUDNICK:  Five birdies and an eagle on your round.  What were you thinking about coming down the stretch when you got to 15 under?
ERIC AXLEY:  I still not really thinking a whole lot.  Though guys behind us have a lot of holes to play and I was trying to make some birdies.

I felt 15 under, I wanted to get to it.  I just didn't get to it.
TODD BUDNICK:  Eric, great play this week, talk to you soon.
TODD BUDNICK:  You were 7 under through the first 13 holes and 2 over to finish it off.  What's the difference between the start and finish?
ERIC AXLEY:  Just the bad drive on 14, for bogey.  Missed    8 footer on 15 and missed the putt on 17.  Felt like I should have got it done.
TODD BUDNICK:  It's got to be tough.  How disappointing was it?
ERIC AXLEY:  Once you hold the lead at one point and the final round you feel like you want to finish it off.  Disappointing where I didn't today but all in all I played well and, you know, three more weeks.
TODD BUDNICK:  How much did that win a few weeks ago help you today?
ERIC AXLEY:  It helped a lot.  You always know you can play out here and get in contention each week.  You finally realize that you really can win and, you know, just think that little bit of confidence, just helps you to
TODD BUDNICK:  Were you comfortable today?
ERIC AXLEY:  Very comfortable.
TODD BUDNICK:  Way to go.
ERIC AXLEY:  Thanks.

Q    Eric, talk a little bit about your round.
ERIC AXLEY:  (Inaudible)    No. 1, I hit 3 wood, sand wedge and made about an 8 footer.  3, I hit 7 iron and made it.  (inaudible) on 5.  Hit sand wedge (inaudible)    to third shot and probably made    hit 3 wood, 9 iron on 10 to about three feet.  And 13, I just missed the green right and hit to it probably ten feet.

Q    Everybody wants to get a run like you've got going but do you have any idea where it came from?
ERIC AXLEY:  Well, yeah, I mean I've been playing well for 8 to 10 weeks and just making no mistakes.

I just got to stop making as many mistakes, you know, just kind of a stupid bubble here and there or making a bogey with a wedge in my hand.  I haven't been doing that the past few weeks and that's the only difference.  I'm not playing any better, just feel like I'm playing a little smarter and not making mistakes.

Q    Feeling just leave you at the end of the round, do you feel good you got so hot or do you feel like now that the putts didn't drop in?
ERIC AXLEY:  Right now, very disappointed.  You know, I put myself in a good position to win the golf tournament and I missed three putts coming down the stretch but, you know, very disappointed right now.

Q    Talk a little bit about 14.
ERIC AXLEY:  I was just trying to hit a draw and just got it    held the face open.  It wasn't that bad of a swing, just held the face open.

Q    Had you pressed a little bit to that point?
ERIC AXLEY:  We still kept our game plan.  My game plan for that pin all week was to not get it over the green if I could.  It's hard to hold that green downwind.  I did hit it over the green and chipped down for a very makeable able putt and just didn't make it.

Q    Were you looking at the scoreboard, the leaderboard?
ERIC AXLEY:  No, I don't study it.  No.  I mean I knew at one point I had a two or 3 shot lead.  I think, I saw the board as I walked off 13 but no, I did not study it at all.  I looked at it on 17 to see if the birdie on 18 would have gave me any hope.

Q    Given the way with the scoring, did you feel you had a two shot lead, probably 15 wasn't going to be safe and you needed more?
ERIC AXLEY:  Didn't know where Davis was or where some of the guys behind me stood.

I know they had two par 5s coming in, very reachable.  Hitting short, soft in front of the greens.  I didn't feel    who knows.  It may be good but I wasn't    I didn't know about 15.

Q    I heard you had family here, about how many?
ERIC AXLEY:  Mother, father, stepdad, wife, baby, her parents, her sister, aunt, uncle.

Q    They all drive in from Tennessee?
ERIC AXLEY:  Yes.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT