ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 23, 2009
Eric Axley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. I have to ask you about that shot on 18. Did you hear a rustling or what was going on there?  
 ERIC AXLEY: I was looking, that's for sure. The first time I went down there, I heard something, kind of backed out. I wasn't sure what it was.   
 I got pretty fortunate the ball stayed up. But got a good break and took advantage of it.  
  
  Q. Tell me about the round today. It seemed like the wind early on picked up a little bit?  
 ERIC AXLEY: Uh-huh, it did. I hit the ball great. I hit it really close the first couple of holes. I missed an 8-footer on one, and 3-footer on 2. Made a nice putt on 3, and missed it. Kept making it close, making birdies. It was just a good, solid round.  
  
  Q. Let me ask you about the putts. Pete Dye grains second week in a row?   
 ERIC AXLEY: Yeah, there were a lot of humps and bumps in there. They're really getting firm right now. So you have to be careful with your speed and your pitches as well.   
  
  Q. You struggled a bit lately. You're refining, regetting the whole thing. Your thoughts on where you feel you are right now in the state of your game?   
 ERIC AXLEY: I missed the cut by one last week. Got here early. Both my coaches were here on Monday. We did a lot of work, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday. Kind of got back some of the things I worked on in the beginning when I started working with them.   
 It's kind of clicked already. So just keep working on the same things we worked on. And I think everything's going to be okay.   
  
  Q. What happened with the club on 18 that got you in trouble?   
 ERIC AXLEY: Well, the bunker shot got me in trouble. I hit a bad fairway bunker shot. But the back and forth between clubs, he I felt the 4, I thought I would play it just to the front and it would probably go long in the back bunker.   
 We thought just keeping it short of the green, and hitting the 5 up there would be an easier up and in, than being over-the-air greens.   
 So just really surprised the wind didn't push the ball. I hit it right on the line I wanted to. It kind of stayed straight and, the wind never pushed it left of the hazard. Ended up making 5, which was very fortunate. It could have been worse.  
  
  Q. How was the conditions today? The wind picked up?  
 ERIC AXLEY: It was tough. It was tough with the clubs. It was tough to fit it on some of the fairways. The fairways start firming up and they bend around some of the bunkers. It wasn't easy as the fairways firmed up to keep it in the fairway.  
  
  Q. You came home from like 12 up, when was your last birdie?   
 ERIC AXLEY: 13.   
  
  Q. 13, and you just kept making pars. Good score.   
 ERIC AXLEY: Well, 14, you can't get to that pin. 15, I didn't want to hit driver. I thought it would go through the bunker. So I left myself with a 5-iron for my second to the back of the pin you can't get close to.   
 16, you know, it was kind of just tough pins coming in. And 18 was a good opportunity. Like I said, I just hit my tee shot up against that lip.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT