NASCAR XFINITY SERIES: NASCAR RACING EXPERIENCE 300
February 15, 2020
Dale Earnhardt, Jr.
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Noah Gragson is taking his time getting to Victory Lane. Junior didn't; you came running in here, you were so excited for your young driver. You gave him some advice; what advice did you give him, because it obviously played out well?  
DALE EARNHARDT JR.: We just sat down and talked about all the scenarios that you can find yourself in at the draft and what to do, what to expect and what to do with the cars and how they're acting around you, and we talked for a good while. Looks like he used some of that stuff, and I like sharing that information with those drivers, especially our guys. But really anybody that comes to me for advice I want to be able to help them.   
Just a great day for JR Motorsports, Black Rifle Coffee, Bass Pro Shops, True Temper. Man, Noah has been wanting to win so bad. He's working so hard. Got a lot going on in his life, and he's kept his head on straight. Great kid.   
   
 Q. Winning at Daytona, something as a driver you've done multiple times. As a driver or as a car owner, does it ever get old to walk into this Victory Lane?   
DALE EARNHARDT JR.: Never. Never gets old, man. You know, don't expect I'll ever do it again as a driver, so I'll take these whenever they're coming, right. If I can get in here as an owner or part of any kind of success like this, it's a great feeling. You've got a lot of people that are part of this, my sister and Rick Hendrick, all the guys, all the people in the shop and the guys on the team. It's just fun to be able to celebrate all this with our company. We've got a great company, man, so many people, and so it's good to be successful.   
   
 Q. Maybe your next lesson to Noah Gragson can be how to get to Victory Lane just a little bit faster.  
DALE EARNHARDT JR.: Let him have his fun, man. It's Daytona; you don't know if you'll ever get this win again or get a chance to celebrate here again, so do what you wanna do.   
   
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT