NASCAR SPRINT CUP SERIES: FEDERATED AUTO PARTS 400
September 12, 2015
Dale Earnhardt, Jr.
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Dale Earnhardt Jr. finishes fifth tonight at Richmond, but more importantly he's in his eighth Chase. Talk about tonight and how excited you are about winning the championship. 
DALE EARNHARDT JR.: Tonight was a great effort by the guys, the whole group. We started off okay, and we identified issues the car had and Greg went right to work, and I even had some ideas that worked, so that was great. 
We worked on the car all night, kept getting better and better, and they got real aggressive and I was asking them to be aggressive. We don't got nothing to lose. It's good to do that and sort of ‑‑ that's how you got to be in the Chase, I think. You got to take chances, you're not going to sit there and top 10 them to death. I think you've got to be aggressive, and I think that maybe we can curtail tonight into some good runs going in right into the Chase, start off with a couple good runs and keep going.

Q. Your crew chief Greg Ives has told me that your relationship now, it seems like you have that freedom to throw ideas out, to be wrong sometimes but to be right sometimes and talk about it after. 
DALE EARNHARDT JR.: We're growing. We've got a long ways to go, but we're getting a lot‑‑ I don't really like to, but comparing our relationship to the last one that worked with Greg Ives, we didn't take off great, we didn't run our best that first year. We were hoping when we got together just to get into the top 15 and we started doing that more consistently and then we changed our goals and got to be a top‑10 car and then we were a top‑5 car and then we started winning races. It's a process, man. We're trying to speed it up as fast as we can with Greg and myself, and I'm pushing him to communicate with me and us build that relationship. It's so important to get it working right. 
We'll get better, you know. Even after this year and the year after that, I mean, we're just going to keep getting better. He's going to be a superstar, as Greg likes to say, so I'm glad to be able to work with him, and once our relationship really gets some legs, we're going to be great. But we're going to try to do it this year. We've got a lot of confidence, and I think our cars are getting better. We were kind of uncomfortable with where we were a couple weeks ago, but it's getting there. The whole company is working their guts out, working really, really hard. Real proud of the effort and hopefully it's going to pay off for us in this Chase. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT