BIG 12 CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 7, 2012
BreAnna Brock
Christine Flores
Robin Pingeton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









THE MODERATOR:   We're now joined by Missouri.   We're delighted to have you here, Coach.   Congratulations.   Your opening comments, please. 
ROBIN PINGETON:   I'm just really happy for our players.   We just obviously got a big lead there with about 14 minutes to go.   It's been a long time since we've been in a position to have such a big lead.   I think they started celebrating a little bit early.   It was unchartered territory for us in this conference play. 
Happens all the time.   It's March Madness.   You see 20‑point comebacks all the time.   I thought at the end made some big plays, hit some big free throws.   I think Oklahoma State is a tremendous team.   Coach Littell has done a tremendous job for them.   But I'm really proud of our girls, and I'm happy for them. 
They continued to stay the course all year long.   We said in March records go out the window.   It's a new opportunity.   They're just such a together team, and they continued to stay very positive.   That's a hard thing to do when you haven't had a lot of success throughout conference play.   Very proud of them.   Very happy for them. 
THE MODERATOR:   Without further ado, ask the first question.

Q.   BreAnna, let me start by asking you about the physical nature, particularly in the second half.   Getting the ball inbound after the Cowgirls score, it looked like it was particularly a problem.   Really at both ends it looked to be particularly physical.   How hard is it to get in a game situation like that and still keep your cool when you're getting shoved around a little bit? 
CHRISTINE FLORES:   Honestly, we don't have a choice but to keep it cool.   It doesn't benefit us to keep going back and forth. 
We have to play hard and do what we need to do in order to avoid getting open or stop them from getting the ball in.

Q.   First for Christine and then for BreAnna.   Coach was talking about celebrating a little early.   Was it difficult to keep the emotions in check and be able to finish it out as the lead progressively shrank?     
CHRISTINE FLORES:   I think, when you get ahead, you get a little physical.   That's something we have to keep our composure and keep the momentum going.   I think the energy and the fight that we had, it was always there.   It kind of lacked a little bit for one or two minutes.   That's something we can't afford to do.   They're a very good team.   Obviously, they're going to take advantage of those one or two minutes that we take time off. 
BREANNA BROCK:   My thoughts on that, we have to expect to be there.   Obviously, that was an awesome position for us to be in.   Like Christine said, we did get a little lackadaisical.   At the same time, we picked it up and did what we had to do.   Oklahoma State is a very good team.   We just have to take it for what it is.

Q.   For Christine and then BreAnna.   Obviously, you guys are running off a lot of emotion.   For all the ups and downs you guys have been through in your careers, what did this mean for you guys? 
CHRISTINE FLORES:   It means so much.   It's something that we know that we can do.   I mean, day in, day out, we've gone into practice, and we have had that same energy every day.   And it's something that we see all the time.   So the fact that we finally produced and brought it to the floor come game time, it meant the world.   I mean, as a senior, that's something that you want. 
Of course you want it every game, but I'll take it right now. 
BREANNA BROCK:   This is just the position we worked for all season.   As Christine said, we worked for this the whole season.   We've had our ups and downs.   But at the same time, at the end of the day, we go back to practice and just work our tails off and watch film and do what we have to do. 
This is an awesome position to be in.   I mean, especially as seniors, as me and Christine have been here, we haven't won our first game in the conference tournament.   This is an awesome position.   This is just the beginning of it.   We just have to keep going up.

Q.   BreAnna, I want a follow‑up on something that you said and maybe have you stand on it a little bit.   I wrote it down.   We just have to expect to be there.   I was here five years ago the last time this team won in this tournament.   You were not.   This team won a couple of games in Big 12 all season.   Now, I've seen you practice, and I've seen you play, but I want you to maybe explain a little bit more for people maybe that haven't how this team could expect‑‑ you used that word.   How could this team expect to win this game? 
BREANNA BROCK:   We have to expect success from the start.   That's something the coaching staff has implemented throughout the whole season.   We have to go game by game, practice by practice, and we just have to expect. 
I mean, if we don't expect to be at the top, we're not going to get there.   We have to know that we're going to win.   We have to know that we're going to make that play.   We have to know that we're going to go out there and handle our business and do what we've practiced so hard for the whole season. 
THE MODERATOR:   Anything more for Coach or the student‑athletes?   Ladies, go get some rest.   We'll see you tomorrow.   Congratulations. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT