NIT SEASON TIP-OFF
November 27, 2013
Anthony Grant
Trevor Releford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









COACH GRANT:   Well, obviously disappointed with the lost.   You have to give Duke credit.   They did a really good job in the first half of being able to build the lead and extend that lead in the second half. 
I thought our guys fought and gave ourselves a chance in the second half but we couldn't make enough plays to come out with the win.   So give Duke credit, I thought their guys stepped up and played really well for them. 

Q.   Down 18, cut it to five, can you take something‑‑ it is November, so can you take something from that going forward? 
COACH GRANT:   You're right, it is November.   But I think for our team, you know, it's a tough lesson sometimes with a loss.   But hopefully what we need, it's always going to come down to consistency for.
Us.   We've got to step up and make some of the plays in the first half that we didn't make.   Obviously Duke had a lot to do with that.   But it's a learning experience and we're going to try to get better. 

Q.   Three quick fouls, did you appeal to Coach to put you back in after picking up the second, and what did you of the three calls and did you think they were officiating you tight in the first half? 
TREVOR RELEFORD:   Coach talks every day‑‑ you can't go back.   I guess go back and watch film.   Like I say, we can't change it, so got to learn from it. 

Q.   Eleven is obviously not what you're used to this season.   That's obviously a low output for you.   Did you ever feel like, considering you spent so much time on the bench because of foul trouble, did you feel like you adjusted your game in the second half?   Did you feel like you held back a little bit, or were you able to get into the rhythm of the game late? 
TREVOR RELEFORD:   My aggressiveness, they were guarding‑‑ couldn't be aggressive and do the things that I do.   But you've got to learn‑‑ and got to be better for my team. 

Q.   Can you just talk about what you guys did with all the pressure you had turning them over?   They had a season‑high in turnovers and you guys did a really good job of turning them over to get points out of it. 
TREVOR RELEFORD:   Just that's how we play, we play like that‑‑ get turnovers, and 40 minutes, just need to be more effective. 

Q.   Parker was a spark for you, as he has been for everyone this season.   Can you talk about the preparation of someone with that unique skill set, and someone as a freshman, who developed so early? 
COACH GRANT:   Yeah, he's probably, in eight years as a head coach, the most talented freshman I've seen just from his size, his physicality and his skill level.   He's able to make tough shots and free himself for the open shot and he's able to get himself to the free throw line. 
He's just a really, really talented player.   They have got a lot of really good players around them, as well.   I thought Matt Jones came off the bench today and really gave them a spark.   He played with great confidence and did a great job. 
And then I thought Quinn was outstanding today.   I thought he played really well and made some good shots.   We had a tough time with that combination in the first half, being able to limit some of their opportunities.   We were having a tough time converting on the other end. 

Q.   I saw you getting into it in the under‑eight time‑out in the first time‑out‑‑ what were your thoughts, in the double bonus pretty early, what were your thoughts?
COACH GRANT:   We know the emphasis of the officials.   Obviously Trevor picked up three charging fouls in the first half. 
But typically as a coach, you go back and you look at calls.   Those guys feel great and we have a lot of respect for the crew we had today.   I'm sure that‑‑ I talked to our guys about it at halftime, we had four charging fouls in the first half, and you know.
So obviously Duke did a great job of taking away some things that we have been able to be successful within terms of getting to the rim.   Their players did a great job of putting themselves in position where they forced the officials to make those calls.   So you have to give them credit for that. 

Q.   Can you just talk about the great job your pressure did against them?   They are a team that doesn't average a lot of turnovers and you were able to turn them over a season high. 
COACH GRANT:   Well, they had a pretty sizable cushion.   So I've got to go back and look at it.   I thought obviously, you know‑‑ we play to win. 
So we weren't able to be effective enough to win the game.   You know, you say, whatever the turnovers were, but they scored 74 points in the game, shot a pretty good clip from the field, got to the free throw line quite a bit.   I would say their attack against what we were doing was pretty effective. 

Q.   I don't know how much you saw on the first game, but thoughts on Drexel? 
COACH GRANT:   Well, I'm really familiar with Drexel, being three years in the Colonial and BCU and I know Bruiser and his teams always play hard.   They are always really, really competitive and they are a physical team and I know he's got some veterans on his team. 
I haven't had a chance to watch them play as of yet, but certainly, you know, I think he's a great coach.   Got a lot of respect for their program and I know we'll have to get ready for a very hard‑fought game on Friday. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT