U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 11, 2015
Cathleen Santoso
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Great shot you hit in there.  Can you tell me about that?  CATHLEEN SANTOSO: I just had a target in mind, which was the chimney, and that's all I really saw in my eyes, and just committed to my shot and heard claps, came up here, and it was a foot away.   Q.  So your first nine today you went 4-under par.  What was going right for you?  CATHLEEN SANTOSO: Just putting.  Everything was dropping in unexpectedly, and you just take it and accept it and celebrate, I guess, and move on.  Try and do the same.   Q.  Would you say putting was the biggest difference from yesterday to today?  CATHLEEN SANTOSO: Absolutely.  I just gave myself a lot more opportunities for birdies, as well, so that and then having the putts drop in, that's the biggest difference.  It makes or breaks a round.   Q.  You're currently in the top 10.  How important is it to have a top seed in this?  CATHLEEN SANTOSO: Really it's not a big deal.  I think the biggest thing I wanted to do this week was just make it into the match play and take it day by day there.   Q.  How does your mentality change from stroke play to match play?  CATHLEEN SANTOSO: You're only playing against one other player, so I didn't think -- you've just got to focus on your own game really, and hopefully that's better than your opponent at the time.   Q.  Looks like you've got a lot of support from the Ducks here.  Can you talk about that a little bit?  CATHLEEN SANTOSO: It's great.  I mean, I live -- I come from the other side of the world, but being in a home college town and having the Ducks support is unbelievable.  I almost feel like I'm playing at home.  It makes up for my actual family not being here.  I'm really appreciative of that.   Q.  Have you played this golf course before?  CATHLEEN SANTOSO: Yes, I've played here a few times.  A qualifier was here for the U.S. Amateur.  To have that opportunity was great.  Having a few rounds up your belt course management-wise, it helps a lot.   Q.  Is there something about this course that you really like?  CATHLEEN SANTOSO: It's just so beautiful.  It's just green, and I mean, it's rewarding when you hit the ball in the right spots.  It doesn't "disreward" you, I guess you could say, if you do hit a good shot.  The bounces are always predictable if you hit it in the right places.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT