SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 3, 2011
LaSondra Barrett
Van Chancellor
Adrienne Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		   THE MODERATOR: We're joined by LSU. We'll turn it over for an opening statement from Coach Chancellor. 
 COACH CHANCELLOR: Basically been a team that's made our living on defense. Today was a great example. When you hold an Alabama team to nine points in the first half... They got my attention. 
 I thought this was a great win for us. I'm really proud of our team. 
 I thought Taylor Turnbow did a great job on Jenkins today. Defensively had 12 rebounds. I thought Barrett and Webb were really great offensive sparks. Webb just kept plugging away, and Barrett did some really good things off of some plays we were running for her.
 I'm really pleased with this victory on this team. 
 THE MODERATOR: LaSondra your thoughts on this game today? 
 LaSONDRA BARRETT: I thought this was an important game for us. We were told by the coaches before coming into this game that last year's loss to Vanderbilt was the first time LSU lost in the first round. We kind of took that to heart and came out and played for our seniors, just wanted to get this first win. 
 Alabama was an important game because they've been playing really well towards the end of the season. To start off with a win, give everybody a chance to play, I thought it was great. 
 THE MODERATOR: Adrienne? 
 ADRIENNE WEBB: We started off pretty well. We came in here ready to play, getting what we wanted out of our offense, taking away Alabama's offense. 
 THE MODERATOR: Questions for the student-athletes. 

 Q. Could you talk about the 13-0 run to start the game, the mentality there. 
 LaSONDRA BARRETT: Defense is what we set out every game. Their three big threats were Jenkins, Horn, and Russell. The team goes through Jenkins and Russell. To stop them, not get them started, will give us the edge. That's the head of their team. We put that away, we pretty much took away Alabama's offense. 
 The 13-0 run, there were some points we couldn't score, we had to keep chipping away, just relax on their pressure defense, just give credit as a team effort, a team win. 

 Q. LaSondra, did you take it upon yourself to lead this team to an important win? 
 LaSONDRA BARRETT: Every game I take a big part in it, being a leader on this team, one of the primary players. 
 I knew coming into the SEC tournament I would have to show by example. Coach Chancellor tells me I'm the most influential person on this team. I know a lot of things start with me, the way I come out and approach the game. Gave a lot of energy. Maybe some people could feed off of me. And vice versa, I could feed off of them, too. That was my mindset, coming out the first 5 or 10 minutes, making a statement. 

 Q. Adrienne, when the rest of you see her playing that well, what does that do to your confidence level? 
 ADRIENNE WEBB: I believe it raises our confidence level. Every time she comes out, plays with a lot of energy, knocks down shots, every time we're feeding off of her also. 
 Whenever she comes out ready to play, everybody else is going to come out ready to play. She's one of our leaders on the team. 
 COACH CHANCELLOR: I thought Kathy Graham was on the defensive team. She did a great job on Ericka Russell. Russell only had 9 points on 3 of 10 shooting. I thought those two defensive stops were really big for us. 

 Q. How big do you think this game was? You're trying to play your way off the bubble, get in the NCAA tournament. 
 LaSONDRA BARRETT: We don't really look much to the NCAA tournament. Of course, it's important to us. Our main focus was getting this first win for the SEC tournament. That's the only thing we can control right now, just coming in and getting this first-round win and moving on to Kentucky. 
 We try not to put too much pressure or think about the NCAA. Just come out, take it game by game. Now our focus is Kentucky. 

 Q. (Question regarding Kentucky.) 
 ADRIENNE WEBB: It's a big game to play. We just have to come out with a lot of energy, play like we did today. If we play like we did today, we'll come out with a W. 
 THE MODERATOR: LaSondra, any thoughts on the Kentucky game tomorrow? 
 LaSONDRA BARRETT: Absolutely. Everything Adrienne said. They're one of the premiere teams in this league, in nation. It's going to be a fight. We have a sour taste in our mouth from Lexington. It's going to be a battle because they have tremendous athletes and they're well-coached. 
 Like I said, we're going to prepare back at the hotel, come out the way LSU does, hopefully just carry this momentum from this Alabama win over to Kentucky tomorrow. 
 THE MODERATOR: We'll dismiss the student-athletes and continue with Coach Chancellor. 

 Q. Talk about the importance of being able to give your starters some rest? 
 COACH CHANCELLOR: First of all, I thought we just had to win this game. That's all there is to it. We got to win. We brought in our subs and I thought they played really, really well. That let me let Graham and Lutley out longer than I would. I let Eason set out. That let three starters take some time out. That was really big. 
 Lots of time when you get a game under your belt in this tournament, you usually come back out and play pretty good. This was a great win for us today. 

 Q. You needed this win for the NCAAs. How important do you think that Kentucky game is? 
 COACH CHANCELLOR: I'm not on the NCAA committee. But if a UCLA win on the road, now won nine SEC games, have played Tennessee twice, Connecticut. If we're not an NCAA team, I don't know what it takes to be one. 
 I did think we had to win this game. But that's just my own personal opinion. Usually if you win eight games in this league, you can win a game at the tournament, that's a pretty good situation. 
 We do have a major-league road win at UCLA against a top-10 team. Name me another bubble team that's got one of those - and on the road, not at home. 
 I'm not on the committee. I don't run it. Just giving you my opinion. My opinion used to be 50 cents could get you a cup of coffee, takes $1.50, $1.75 today. That's one of the biggest things that's changed in my life, that and cell phones. But that's neither here nor there. 
 Next question. 

 Q. Besides the big run early, midway through the second half, you pulled away a little bit. That seemed to be a pretty good stretch. 
 COACH CHANCELLOR: I thought the two keys of the game, we opened up with a run. We didn't want to give Alabama any confidence. They've been playing really well. Had 92 against Arkansas. Had beat some nice teams. We didn't want to give them a start. 
 We went in at halftime and told them we had to come out at halftime and not give off any points, shut them down. We controlled the first five minutes of each half. I thought that was the difference in the game. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much. 
 COACH CHANCELLOR: Thank you. It sure is good to be hanging around another day. I'll tell you that right now. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT