NFL PRESS CONFERENCE
January 18, 2000
Paul Tagliabue
Robert Wood Johnson IV
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
PAUL TAGLIABUE: Our membership this morning approved the sale of the New York Jets to
Mr. Robert Wood Johnson. I am very pleased to advise you of that and to congratulate Mr.
Johnson and to introduce him to you. Mr. Johnson, congratulations. There is a football
here some place, the official game ball.
ROBERT WOOD JOHNSON IV: This is a pretty exciting day for me. Wow. Being approved, you
never know until it happens. Fortunately I was just approved about 20 minutes ago, but I'd
like to say a few things before I take some questions from you guys. The Hess family has
owned the team for more than 40 years. I'd just like to say while this bidding process has
been a rollercoaster and a difficult one, the Hess family has been so gracious. And I told
John Hess this morning I will try to take good care of the team that he and his father
started. I'd like to thank the NFL owners today for voting to let me consummate the
purchase of the Jets. I am very excited about it. I'd also like to thank Chuck Dolan, who
was also bidding for the team. He called me up from a family trip to congratulate us on
the purchase of the Jets, a very gracious guy, a worthy competitor. I am sure the Hess
family feels the same way. What I'd like to just say briefly, just a couple of remarks of
what we are planning to do in the coming months and weeks and days. One is to keep the
continuity of the Jets and trying to stabilize what is perceived as some instability in
certain ranks. And to put a first class management in place and to bring a championship
team to this area and really work very hard to develop that. We are committed to making
that happen, and I think I am pretty sure we can do it. There is a couple of things that
-- in terms of my relationship with the Jets -- that you should know, I think, and
basically there are two things that I have to do in a short period of time. One is to get
the operational elements in shape, and I have talked to Steve Gutman, who has been at the
Jets for over 20 years and he has agreed to stay on -- graciously agreed to stay on. He is
a terrific guy. He knows more about the NFL than almost anybody, and I am lucky that Steve
willl stay on with the operation. Now, regarding the coaches' situation. I have met with
or talked to Bill Parcells everyday except today. I had a long meeting on Wednesday. I had
a long meeting on Friday; three hour meeting. We discussed with Bill Parcells the world is
the only limit. He is a very unusual man and one that has brought a life to this team that
we haven't had for a while. He is a winner in every way. He is not the easiest person to
read; in fact, he is very difficult to read. But he is a quick study, very direct, very
honest. He will be a great coach to continue with the New York Jets. That is for sure. No
decision has been made. We will have a decision by the end of the week because the time
crunch is on. This is when a lot of decisions concerning next year's team and the draft
and everything are made. So we are looking at the role that Bill Parcells will play. We
hope as large a role as he feels like playing, because he is a proven winner. I think that
is all I have. I am just very excited by the opportunity to build this team into a winning
team, a championship team and no matter which way this goes, I think we are going to be
successful in doing that.

Q. Would you describe how and why you decided to get involved in this because your name
had not come up as the usual suspect. What brought you into this and why did you stay with
it and how did you justify the price?

ROBERT WOOD JOHNSON IV: I don't know if you can justify the price, but I have been kind
of a fanatical sports fan all my life. I played football, not well. I was second-string
tight end, dropped a lot of passes and I remember playing on days kind of like today, and
so when you hit the deck on a day like today, you feel it. But football is just to me the
greatest sport in the country. It is one that is enjoyed by millions, I guess hundreds of
millions of people not only in this country, but around the world, every Sunday. This
opportunity came up. I knew the Hess family and thought this was an area I could add value
to. That is basically it.

Q. You have stated your intent of interest of having Bill Parcells as head coach. Have
you asked him directly to stay on as head coach with the Jets?

ROBERT WOOD JOHNSON IV: We have had discussions and we have talked about what he wants
to do. Yes, I think he would be a great coach as he has demonstrated. Those discussions
are continuing.

Q. Where did you play tight end?

ROBERT WOOD JOHNSON IV: Milbrook School, (laughs), small school.

Q. Mr. Johnson, have you thought or talked to the Meadowlands about extending the lease
or breaking the lease yet?

ROBERT WOOD JOHNSON IV: No.

Q. Where do you think the Jets will be playing eight years from now?

ROBERT WOOD JOHNSON IV: I don't know. Eight years from now they will be playing
somewhere else. Because the lease expires. So we would have to depart that facility, I
believe. That is an area that I think would be very important ultimately for the Jets. The
Jets have never had their own stadium. Every game they played for the last 39 plus years
have been away games. They have never had the home-field advantage, so to speak. So I
think that is going to be a critical decision we look at down the line after we get some
of these other questions answered. 

Q. Do you want to play in New York?

ROBERT WOOD JOHNSON IV: We are going to look at all options I think is the best way to
answer that.

Q. Are you optimistic that you can get Bill Parcells back to coach your team?

ROBERT WOOD JOHNSON IV: I'd love to have him coach. Am I optimistic I can do it? We
will know -- I guarantee you we will know by the end of the week.

Q. He is keeping an open mind; is that where he left it with you?

ROBERT WOOD JOHNSON IV: We have had private discussions, I'd rather not characterize
them. But he is an impressive person, impressive coach.

Q. If the League decides that Bill Belichick's contract with the Jets is still valid,
what plans do you have for him?

ROBERT WOOD JOHNSON IV: That is a good question. The matter has turned into a
semi-legal and League matter; the way I understand it, it is in the Commissioner's office
right now and when the Commissioner opens the door for me to enter and help make decisions
on that, I will be available. But that is out of my jurisdiction. I really can't comment
on it right now.

Q. Have you been assured by Parcells that he will remain in the organization in some
capacity or another or is that still up in the air as well?

ROBERT WOOD JOHNSON IV: The kind of person Bill -- the kind of general leader Parcells
is, I don't think Parcells is going to desert the Jets. That is my impression.

Q. What do you expect to be the ultimate factor in Parcells's decision; is it going to
be financial, control of the team, what?

ROBERT WOOD JOHNSON IV: He already controls the team. I don't think it is financial,
because I don't think he works for -- despite what one reads in the paper occasionally --
I don't think he is motivated by money. This is something else.

Q. What was your reaction right after the Belichick news conference?

ROBERT WOOD JOHNSON IV: It was probably the same as yours (laughs). This is a volatile
environment. There is no question. So I think that my job, as involved with this thing
now, will be to provide the kind of management that is capable of handling these and
rolling with the punches. Steve is very good at it. I have spent the last week talking to
him almost every day, and I am very impressed by his view and his stability and optimism.
He is going to be a go-getter, believe me.

Q. You made it pretty clear that you are going to be out of the Meadowlands in eight
years; is that accurate?

ROBERT WOOD JOHNSON IV: Well, our lease expires in eight years, 2008. Eight seasons.

Q. Is one of the options to renew?

ROBERT WOOD JOHNSON IV: I don't think that is going to be one of our options of choice.
As I believe I mentioned the Jets have never had their own stadium. They have been in the
Mets Stadium, Shea Stadium and now this since 1984, and we want to do everything in our
power to provide them with their own stadium. Hopefully we can do that.

Q. Following up, are you aware -- you must be aware of plans that Mayor Giuliani has to
build a dome stadium on the west side. He has already indicated an interest that he would
like to sit down with you and talk to you; would you be willing to do that?

ROBERT WOOD JOHNSON IV: I would at some point. Not this week (laughter).

Q. Is there a chance that you will sit down with the Commissioner and try to reach a
settlement on the Bill Belichick thing?

ROBERT WOOD JOHNSON IV: I think I would be better prepared to comment on that after the
Commissioner kind of lays it out for us rather than now.

Q. Given your ties to the Republican Party, will you be talking to Whitman and Giuliani
about the new stadium?

ROBERT WOOD JOHNSON IV: I have talked to Governor Whitman and Governor Pataki. They
just called to congratulate us in this and just were very gracious. Does that answer your
question?

Q. Are you planning to talk to them about the possible financing of a stadium down the
line?

ROBERT WOOD JOHNSON IV: We haven't really gotten that far. We have been preoccupied
with trying to purchase and trying to organize what we consummated today for the last few
months.

Q. When is your next meeting with Parcells?

ROBERT WOOD JOHNSON IV: I will probably talk to him today.

Q. Face-to-face?

ROBERT WOOD JOHNSON IV: I will talk to him tomorrow face-to-face or the next day,
tomorrow or the next day.

Q. Once you were aware that you were one of the two finalists, were you also confident
that you had an advantage over Dolan as long as you kept raising your money because of his
conflicts, his problems with the --

ROBERT WOOD JOHNSON IV: I wasn't. I was not confident. No, I was not confident at all.
The only thing that gave me ultimate confidence was when John Hess walked in the room, and
I saw his hand kind of reaching in my direction. Because even this morning, this was not a
sure thing. Charles Dolan was very, very competitive all the way down the line and I think
would have been a fabulous owner.

Q. Last Tuesday you decided to go $10 million higher; what was the thinking there, that
that would be the ultimate that would get it for you?

ROBERT WOOD JOHNSON IV: It was just the strategy. We wanted to secure it and that was
our strategy.

Q. You mention stability, continuity. Are you suggesting that if Parcells doesn't want
to stay on, that for sure you guys would stay within the organization or is there still a
chance that you can go outside for a head coach? 

ROBERT WOOD JOHNSON IV: I think with any good leader selection, you have to look at all
opportunities. So we will be very careful in trying to assess what is best for the team
and the fans and our objective trying to create this thing. We will look inside and
outside. Address everything.

Q. How does that relate to continuity though, if you did go outside?

ROBERT WOOD JOHNSON IV: That is less continuity, but you know, you have continuity in
winning as well, and I think that is the continuity that at the end of the day the fans
like more than anything else. They want to see a product. They want to see their team
doing well. They have been doing well as of late.

Q. Say Bill does not coach, would you be inclined to go with what he recommends in
terms of would you kind of let him decide on the next coach?

ROBERT WOOD JOHNSON IV: I think Bill would certainly be -- I'd like to have Bill's
decision and his recommendation would certainly be listened to, maybe determinative,
because he knows this business.

Q. What would you be willing to do to get Mr. Parcells -- are you telling him one more
year? What are you saying one more years, uno mas?

ROBERT WOOD JOHNSON IV: In Spanish? Would uno mas work? (laughter).

Q. Would you give him --

ROBERT WOOD JOHNSON IV: I'd say that if it worked. Yeah, I mean, I'd love to have Bill
Parcells coach another year, no question. He is a great coach. He has got two Super Bowls
on his lawn, and that says it all.

Q. After your meetings talking to him, you must have a pretty good idea which way he is
going?

ROBERT WOOD JOHNSON IV: Have you met Parcells?

Q. Yes.

ROBERT WOOD JOHNSON IV: So you know the answer to that. He is not a guy -- if he
doesn't want you to know, you don't know.

Q. He hasn't told you?

ROBERT WOOD JOHNSON IV: No. No, he hasn't, but we have decided that by the end of the
week we are going to resolve this decision.

Q. Can you talk about where your role in the spectrum of ownership from Mr. Hess on one
end to Johnson and Dan Snyder on the other end, where do you see your role fitting?

ROBERT WOOD JOHNSON IV: I see my role as -- basically my No. 1 role now is selecting
leaders to take this organization forward. That is kind of the key to it. And adding value
in other areas where I think I can add a unique value; otherwise, you want a guy like
Parcells as the coach. He knows how to coach better than do I. That is what he is going to
do. So you want somebody who can make those decisions and run that area.

Q. Does having a guy like Parcells running the show equip you to take more of a back
role; would you feel more confident with a guy like that running your team? 

ROBERT WOOD JOHNSON IV: With a guy like Parcells there, yes. I think you do. You have
got a proven winner in the slot. Capable of making good decisions.

Q. After spending the money you did to buy the franchise, do you feel that Bill owes it
to you to coach?

ROBERT WOOD JOHNSON IV: No. No. No. I mean Bill has his own life. He is a tremendous
man, it's a free country, and I don't think there is any debt here that I know of.

Q. Do you have some history with the Jets in terms of following them or knowing about
them or attending games?

ROBERT WOOD JOHNSON IV: Well I have been going -- it is hard to get Jets tickets. I
just bought a couple of tickets last couple of days, but Jets season tickets are
impossible to get, as you guys know. I went to games with the Hess family. I have gone by
myself. I have gone with my kids. We love the Jets.

Q. Was there a particular thing that made you move forward? Was it because they were
the Jets? Had you ever considered doing this before or was this a moment that you wanted
to get into --

ROBERT WOOD JOHNSON IV: This is basically the moment that I had the stars lined up for
me to be able to do it.

Q. Have you had any conversations with Mr. Kraft concerning his interest in Bill
Belichick?

ROBERT WOOD JOHNSON IV: No.

Q. Did Bill tell you on Friday he doesn't want to coach and did you ask him to take the
weekend to think it over?

ROBERT WOOD JOHNSON IV: Well, Bill didn't say yes, he would coach, put it that way.

Q. Did he say, no, I won't coach?

ROBERT WOOD JOHNSON IV: No. We are going to continue to hammer this out one way or the
other to find out what role Bill wants to play on the team. And as I said, the bigger role
he wants to play, the better.

Q. It was reported that you made an offer of up to $5 million a year or tentative offer
to Bill Parcells to come back and coach. Would you be willing to pay him that much money?

ROBERT WOOD JOHNSON IV: I don't remember making such an offer.

Q. Would you make such an offer?

ROBERT WOOD JOHNSON IV: I don't want to get involved -- to get into the negotiations of
or the discussions, really, that I am having with Parcells.

Q. How hands-on do you plan to be in your ownership?

ROBERT WOOD JOHNSON IV: I think I am going to be pretty hands-on right at the
beginning. Helping select the new coach, and getting the football operations set up;
getting the operation element which is a huge element for one of these teams is where I am
going to be concentrating.

Q. From then on?

ROBERT WOOD JOHNSON IV: There will be other issues going forward. But basically I am
not going to go into the operation and pick the dixie-cup-holder-type-of-deal, or tell the
coach how to run his plays, no, no. 

Q. When you looked at the prospectus of the team were you surprised by the finances
there or did you expect that you wouldn't see a -- (inaudible)--

ROBERT WOOD JOHNSON IV: I am sorry, was I surprised by the --

Q. By the finances?

ROBERT WOOD JOHNSON IV: Not really.

Q. At that point did you think the team was worth what you now --

ROBERT WOOD JOHNSON IV: I think it is or I wouldn't have paid it. I think it is worth
what I paid for it.

Q. Do you foresee making money or is profit not a motivation that you --

ROBERT WOOD JOHNSON IV: I think ultimately you have to love the sport to be in the
sport. If you don't love football, don't buy a football team. But you have got to be able
to pay for the players and you have got to be able to pay the salaries of the coaches and
so on. So there is a financial engine that has to be adjusted.

Q. In that vein will you be looking for other investors as minority partners?

ROBERT WOOD JOHNSON IV: As limited partners we don't know yet. The answer is we don't
know that we will be looking for limited partners. We will decide that down the road.

Q. In terms of not the coaching aspect, but the direction of the organization, the
person in charge of running the football operations, does it concern you to be starting
off with somebody who is really working on a year-to-year basis and you might have to go
through this again in the near future?

ROBERT WOOD JOHNSON IV: Most managers I have worked with are on a day-to-day basis
because they are not under contract. So that doesn't bother me a bit. Steve Gutman is a
tremendous resource. He really knows this business. He is a great guy. I personally have a
great rapport with him. I think, hopefully, it is reciprocal. I think it is going to be a
good match.

Q. Have you met with Al Groh?

ROBERT WOOD JOHNSON IV: I have met him. I met him briefly.

Q. In the last week?

ROBERT WOOD JOHNSON IV: Yeah, in the last week. I wasn't allowed to talk to anybody
until last week.

Q. Have you ever explored the possibility of purchasing any other major sports
franchise?

ROBERT WOOD JOHNSON IV: We looked at a -- back when I was about 30 we looked at the
Tampa Bay -- which wasn't called Tampa Bay back then, but it was the Tampa expansion team
and we met with Rozelle - a great Commissioner he was - and didn't really carry the bid
very far. We didn't carry it at all. We didn't make a bid.

Q. Any other sports involved in?

ROBERT WOOD JOHNSON IV: Other than motor cycling? (laughter) no. No other sport, no
other franchise. 

Q. Mr. Gutman is staying on as team president?

ROBERT WOOD JOHNSON IV: Correct.
GREG AIELLO: We are going to have the Commissioner come up and answer a few questions.
We will have a complete transcript of this press conference shortly afterwards. We will
get it to you. Any questions?

Q. Earlier Mr. Johnson said some things about some areas, about the state of the team
-- (inaudible) do you see that this is in fact so (inaudible) --

COMMISSIONER TAGLIABUE: I don't see that it is a problem. The season is only over in,
what, two weeks. I think that the purchase is very timely and I think he is coming in
ready to make the decisions he has to make, so I think the team will be in good hands;
keeping Steve Gutman on board is a very positive thing and I think the Jets' fans can be
assured that the whole franchise is in good hands right from today forward.

Q. Will you attempt to get Mr. Johnson and Mr. Kraft together on the Belichick issue?

COMMISSIONER TAGLIABUE: I don't currently plan to do that, no. My current thinking
would be to try to resolve the Belichick arbitration by the end of the week. I have some
more to do here this afternoon with the membership so we will be tied up a good part of
today, so I don't expect to get to it until tomorrow, but certainly by the end of the week
I will expect to get to a decision.

Q. How much of a handicap do you see in two franchises sharing one facility?

COMMISSIONER TAGLIABUE: As Mr. Johnson said, I think it would be much better if the
Jets had their own facility, could be a part of multi-purpose facility here in New York in
the City as part of the convention complex. It could be other parts of the New York area.
It could be in New Jersey, but I think it is a big advantage in today's environment,
particularly for the fans who as Mr. Johnson said to our Finance Committee this morning
getting that last ounce of adrenaline out of the players onto the field sometimes falls to
the fans as the 12th man and he feels very strongly that if they had their own stadium,
that would be something that would energize the Jets' fans even more than they are
energized and give his team the advantage of the 12th man that we saw in the playoffs in
the last two weeks.

Q. I believe you have already ruled that the Jets' contract with Bill Belichick is
binding. Has there been any new evidence to make you rethink things, the reason it has
taken you a little while to make a decision?

COMMISSIONER TAGLIABUE: We said early on I think on the 3rd or 4th of January that
based on the contract we had and the circumstances that we were aware of, there was a
binding contract. Now we had the hearing last Thursday. We have had extensive submissions
on behalf of both sides, and once I go through it, by the end of the week I will know
whether there is anything new or whether it is what we had assumed at the beginning of
last week. 

Q. In that vein, anything new in Arizona, Philadelphia, Minnesota, and New Orleans? I
know there was talk with the legislature about redoing the lease....

COMMISSIONER TAGLIABUE: We are working with all four of those teams on their stadium
situations and in Philadelphia there was a recent announcement with the mayor elect.
Arizona, we are going to be talking a little bit about that situation here this afternoon.
So we are working on all four of those situations.

Q. And New Orleans also?

COMMISSIONER TAGLIABUE: All four of them.

Q. A couple of years ago we had the Parcells situation, New England, now we have
Belichick's situation. Do you see these as isolated incidents or are they a start of a bad
trend and do you think once this week or two weeks is done that the League needs to do
something proactive to fight against --

COMMISSIONER TAGLIABUE: No, I think they are isolated incidents. George Allen and
George Halas had a contract dispute during the '60s, so this is nothing new to sports. New
England Patriots and Chuck Fairbans had a dispute that ended up in the courts in the '70s.
So occasionally you have disputes and you resolve them.

Q. Did Mr. Johnson receive unanimous approval?

COMMISSIONER TAGLIABUE: Yes, unanimous.

Q. Any abstentions?

COMMISSIONER TAGLIABUE: No, there were two teams absent, Atlanta, and I think St. Louis
hadn't arrived yet. I noticed that Georgia Frontiere came in, but that was after the vote.
It was 29 to zero in favor; two teams were absent.

Q. Can you discuss some of the reorganization in your office that we have heard from
the owners?

COMMISSIONER TAGLIABUE: We are looking at a reorganization to take account of what
everyone is taking account of, which is cyber space and the telecommunications revolution.
I think the biggest challenge we have as a League and I think it is true of the other
leagues as well is to evolve our media, our television from the current broadcast
television and cable television distribution system into the digital era. I noticed just
this week David Stern made some organizational changes in the NBA; baseball is making some
changes with Bud Selig; we are looking at some changes that are primarily responsive to
that telecommunications revolution. We had made a number of changes in the early '90s
which I think were suited to the issues we faced then getting out of court with the
players, getting a Collective Bargaining Agreement; we completely reorganized our
Management Council function in the early '90s; brought in Neil Austrian to hold the
position of president and chief operating officer which we never had before. I think back
to many of the owners giving me advice that if you reinvent your organization every two or
three years you will be well served. We are reinventing it not every two, three years, but
we are certainly reinventing it now at the beginning of a new decade, but most importantly
of a new era and nothing more has punctuated this than the announcement last week, of the
AOL Time Warner deal; which I think is a signal that content providers are marrying
distribution systems and distribution systems are going to be looking for content
providers as partners. That is the No. 1 issue for sports that I see in the next decade.

Q. Have you spoken with Mr. Kraft at all about Bill Belichick's situation just in terms
of maybe he wants to expedite the situation and he is concerned about a timetable?

COMMISSIONER TAGLIABUE: No, he just asked me this morning when we had the Finance
Committee meeting what was my timetable. I told him what I had indicated to you earlier
today.

Q. In regards to the Belichick contract what would you be taking counsel from or
meeting with between now and your decision?

COMMISSIONER TAGLIABUE: Taking counsel from our attorneys and reviewing the material
that they developed. I was in the hearing for about an hour last Thursday, then it
continued for a number of hours after that; then we got lengthy written submissions which
I need to go over.

Q. Prices of franchises going where they are going, is there a concern that eventually
only corporate owners will be able to afford teams?

COMMISSIONER TAGLIABUE: I don't think so. This question comes up year in and year out,
but our experience in the last several years going back to Jerry Richardson and Wayne
Weaver coming in as the owners in Jacksonville and Carolina has been extremely positive
with individual owners. Since Carolina and Jacksonville we have had Al Lerna (ph), Bob
McNair, now we have Mr. Johnson. Other owners such as Mr. Glazer had a real positive
impact as evidenced by the fact that they are playing for the Conference Championship this
Sunday in Tampa -- I mean in St. Louis with Tampa Bay playing. So we feel that the
individual owners are not only interested and capable of purchasing NFL teams but they
make extremely good operators. That continues to be our preference.

Q. Do you expect the Ravens transaction to come up today?

COMMISSIONER TAGLIABUE: We had a brief status report from Art Modell as to just the
nature of the transaction. I think most of the owners that -- only read about it when it
was reported in the press. We had not given the owners any kind of a status report in
writing or otherwise. Mr. Modell gave that today, but it is not going to be taken up for
any action today.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT