U.S. MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 17, 2019
Nick Geyer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  First of all, how does it feel to be in the quarterfinals?  
NICK GEYER: It feels awesome. This is kind of, I mean, why I got my amateur status back in 2013. I think the USGA does an unbelievable job, and the feeling that you get being out here playing and competing, that's why I love golf, whether it's something small or something huge. Yes, it feels awesome.   
 Q.  The wind blew much harder this afternoon; how did it affect your match and how you played the course?  
NICK GEYER: The downwind holes played mighty short. I hit it greenside on 8 with 2-iron. I hit it -- I hit 8-iron off the tee on 14. It's just howling. So it just changes the golf course. It makes the cross and into the wind shots have a lot of teeth and the downwind shots are really, really strategic because the ball goes forever. It's firm, it's fast, and then it's going to start to fly. It just makes it just one more level of thinking.   
 Q.  Is there more math involved when the wind is blowing?  
NICK GEYER: I've got a lot of math going right now, between elevation, the heat, the firmness of the golf course, and then, yeah, wind. No shortage of math out here.   
 Q.  This match here you jumped out pretty good on the front nine.  
NICK GEYER: The front nine has been really nice to me. Max is a really great player. He's got an unbelievable pedigree. So yeah, I played really well and got lucky to sneak a couple past him on the front, and then the back was able to hit a couple good shots when I needed to coming in.   
 Q.  You birdied the par-5 7th to go 3-up. How did you do that?  
NICK GEYER: I hit a really good drive and then hit what I thought was a really beautiful 7-iron. It's so firm, and there's the kicker short right. I tried to use it, but it landed soft, and then I hit a really good pitch shot and cleaned it up from I think four feet.   
 Q.  And now that you're in the quarterfinals, what do you think that's going to be like? Will it be different?  
NICK GEYER: I've never been there, so for me it's all a new experience. I think I'm just going to stick with my mantra of kind of how would Coore & Crenshaw want me to play this shot. It's been really successful, especially when kind of the course gets different, and it's really fun. It's just been really fun between CommonGround being kind of soft and different, and then this place slowly getting really, really firm. Yeah, I'm going to have a lot of fun. Regardless of what happens, it's going to be a lot of fun.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT