HONG KONG OPEN
October 18, 2014
Jyoti Randhawa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What are your thoughts on being 8‑under, now having had the first round lead?  
JYOTI RANDHAWA:   I think I like it here.   Less pressure.   Three or four groups ahead, and like two or three shots, anything can happen on this golf course.   
But yeah, yesterday I was a little tentative, not being in that position for a long time, going into the second round, get a little nervy.   I started off not that great but I finished great, so I'm happy.  
   
 Q.   To have had that level par round kept you nicely in the hunt and nobody is moving away.   
JYOTI RANDHAWA:   I was pretty happy and satisfied when I finished par yesterday, because when I started, it was going all over the place.   But yeah, to have finished par, and 2‑under today, so I'm right there.   I like my chances.  
   
 Q.   Is there some satisfaction in consistency?   I know it's not a sexy word but that you can get it together over three days must be good.   
JYOTI RANDHAWA:   I guess my game, you can't wish for more, you can't wish for less.   Just play your game and whatever you get in the last round, do what you did in the last three days and see what happens.  
   
 Q.   When is the last time you felt this good about your possibilities?   
JYOTI RANDHAWA:   It's been a long time, two or three years back.   But to have come back and given myself a great chance into tomorrow, it's great.   
   
 Q.   Do you allow yourself to think of what is needed or just the unusual mantra of a shot at a time?  
JYOTI RANDHAWA:   Exactly, yeah.   I just need to do what I did the last three days.   If anything, maybe the start, I'm not that great on the start and finished well.   But let's hope I can keep the start going and finish, well, also.   
   
 Q.   Your arm is pretty meaty.   
JYOTI RANDHAWA:   My right forearm has been hurting me, there for a month.   Luckily this week it's getting better, so next week I should be full, fighting condition.  
   
 Q.   Doesn't harm your shots on the course?  
JYOTI RANDHAWA:   No.   It helps me don't jerk my arm.   It's like a shock absorber, so I need that.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT