JOHNNIE WALKER CLASSIC
March 1, 2008
Jyoti Randhawa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:  Talk us through your day.   
 JYOTI RANDHAWA:  I had two bad shots and one I got a replay; it was almost a certain bogey or double-bogey and I saved par.   
 So the way I played today I think I'm very happy with where I am.  4-under going into the last round, quite pleased with myself.   
 CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:  Quite interesting hole on the 18th, just talk us through that with the second shot onwards.   
 JYOTI RANDHAWA:  Yeah, I saw he hit his iron through the greens and I was thinking 5-iron and I took a 6-iron and I thought, you know, a little bit of head wind, I didn't want to lose a shot, and I hit it hard and came over the top and put it left.  The mere fact that 6-iron was enough club, I hit it hard and overpowered it and hit the cart path.   
 I wouldn't say it was a good shot.  It was just a bad shot and lucky to get away with par there.   
 CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:  Going into the last round, one shot, happy with where you are?   
 JYOTI RANDHAWA:  The way I played today, I'm still very pleased to be one shot behind.  I recovered well on the way back, so like I said, tomorrow is another day.  Let's hope I can keep it all together and play well.   
  
  Q.  You said you're lucky to be there.  You shot a 68, of course you got a lucky break, but you saved yourself.  What would you say is wrong or something you're not happy with?   
 JYOTI RANDHAWA:  I think on the 13th hole, I pulled my tee shot and got a reshot there.  I could have made par; from the fairway I could even have made birdie.  I hit a really bad shot on the 16 tee; it just cleared the hazard and I was lucky to make par there.   
 So all in all, I think quite a few weeks have gone by, when you're right there you want to make a shot and your mind is in the way.  Something I learned today, you have to really be focused on the shot and not before or after.  So let's see if I can take it up tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  You said that you've been on the seventh green and a lot of things are in your mind, but nevertheless you've been able to ease yourself in contention and as you said yesterday, you are knocking on the door all the time.  Are you discovering new limits for your own body?   
 JYOTI RANDHAWA:  Yeah, definitely.  I've never gone this far.  The mere fact that this golf tournament is in India, you try to focus that much harder and you try that much harder.  You are actually pushing yourself and pushing your mind and I think that's what I'm enjoying right now, going over the top and seeing to what extent I can keep going with the body and the mind.   
 I think I've got more and I've got to keep it going.  I'll let you know once I'm there.   
  
  Q.  Talk about being there.  I hate asking you this, and I would rather ask it tomorrow evening, but cannot resist the temptation.  Is the Top 50 in your mind, world Top-50?   
 JYOTI RANDHAWA:  I think it always comes to your mind, Top-50 or Top-10 or whatever the ranking is.  But you just go and you try and do your best and not think about the score and let that be for the press, for the media or for the World Rankings to decide.  You just go out there and play your game ask do your best.  Keep it simple and see where you finish.   
  
  Q.  Playing with Kiyota for 18 holes, do you know his game at all?  I see you talking to him quite a bit during the round today.  Are you familiar with him as a person or even as a golfer?   
 JYOTI RANDHAWA:  Well, this is the first time I've played with him, and I think Japanese people, anyway, are very disciplined, very friendly.  It was great playing with him.  I learned a lot.  His wedge shot is very good, even on last hole how he spun it and stopped it there.  I didn't have a great lie to do that.  All in all, he taught me what I need to work at, so I'm going to go on the range and do that.   
 CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:  Thanks very much for coming in and good luck tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT