JOHNNIE WALKER CLASSIC
February 29, 2008
Jyoti Randhawa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:  We have Jyoti Randhawa with us, a lovely round of 7-under par 65.  That must have been an enjoyable morning for you.  Talk us through that.   
 JYOTI RANDHAWA:  Yeah, it's a great round I think after  playing yesterday's round, and I'm really happy to be where I am today.  I was not feeling all that great when I finished my round yesterday, and I think I decided what to do today and I stuck with it.  You know, it paid off, so I'm quite happy to shoot 7-under today.   
 CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:  What was wrong with the game yesterday and what did you do to fix it?   
 JYOTI RANDHAWA:  I guess it's just expectations.  You're playing in your country people expect you to play well, you expect to play well and before you know it, you play and you start scoring and start seeing the leaderboard and before you know it, you could be 2-under or 3-over.   
 That's what I did today, I just tried to play the game.  I just wanted to go out there and have fun and do the best that I could with my game.  That helped.  That was great.   
 CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:  What was the key to today's scoring?   
 JYOTI RANDHAWA:  I think I putted quite well.  I hit a few iron shots good, too.  I think overall it was the putting.  Yesterday the putting wasn't that hot, and today the putter got hot, and I made a lot of putts.  That was the key.   
  
  Q.  You've been playing seven in a row; trying to get the energy going?   
 JYOTI RANDHAWA:  Well, I'm trying to keep up with Jeev, you know.  If one countryman can do it, so can the other.   
 This is the first time I've played seven in a row.  I've normally never gone over five.  I was speaking to Jeev and he said, "You know, you've got to test your body," and I like that phrase.  So I'm testing my body, let's see how far along or long I can keep going.   
  
  Q.  How are you feeling?   
 JYOTI RANDHAWA:  I'm pretty fit, so the fitness is not that much.  It's just that the mental lapses of concentration that comes in.  You know, I think that's something you miss when you are -- like yesterday, it was total mental lapse of concentration and I just couldn't play.  Today I got it back.  So I just want to see how long I can handle it mentally, also.   
  
  Q.  According to your card, you had seven birdies today, but how big was that par save at the 18th after going in the water?   
 JYOTI RANDHAWA:  Yes, I was looking at a sure birdie there, and I was thinking 5-iron or 4-iron and I tried to ease a 4-iron and I duffed it, actually, and went in the water.   
 I tried to score -- I tried not to see what I'm going to do.  I just tried to play shot by shot.  It bothered me a little bit when I was walking.  I didn't make all that good of a chip but I putted great.  As I said, putting helped me today and that's what made me score today.   
  
  Q.  How far?   
 JYOTI RANDHAWA:  Ten feet.  I made a big putt to save par there.   
  
  Q.  Great scoring, seven birdies, but only one on a par 5.   
 JYOTI RANDHAWA:  Really?  Oh, I didn't see that.   
  
  Q.  You missed the 18th and also the 14th?   
 JYOTI RANDHAWA:  Then I need birdies tomorrow on the par 5s.   
 CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:  Let's go through your birdies on the card starting with the 11th hole, the par 3.   
 JYOTI RANDHAWA:  Yeah, I hit a 7-iron there and I hit it you know, perfectly left of the flag.  I wanted it to be in -- you don't want to be on the wrong side.  The greens, if you get downhill, downwind, they get pretty fast so.  I wanted it left and I hit it there and I hit an aggressive putt and made birdie there.   
 15, I had a great humongous drive.  I was 40 yards from the pin and I chipped it, great chip, just went three feet right and made that putt.   
 17, I think 17 was a great second shot.  I hit a sand wedge and I thought I hit it a little bit too much but it spun back and came next to the flag.  It was about six or seven feet and made that putt.   
 2, second hole, the hit a 3-wood and 9-iron.  I hit a soft 9-iron to about two, three feet and made that putt.   
 5, I didn't have a great lie, so I hit a 9-iron and ran it up to the hole.  It was a 50-footer from the right and made that.   
 On the 6th, I hit my 6-iron, par 5, second shot, just on the fringe and made two putts from there.   
 7, I hit driver and a lob-wedge.  Again, I holed a good 12-footer.  So putting was good.   
 CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:  Obviously this is just the position you want to be in going into the weekend round.   
 JYOTI RANDHAWA:  Yeah, I haven't been able to hang on to it the last fewer tournaments.  Let's see if I can do it again.  It's good that I keep knocking on the door and sometimes it opens.  Just keep being patient and just keep doing it and see what happens.   
 CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:  Thanks very much and all the best for the rest of the week.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT