EMAAR-MGF INDIAN MASTERS
February 6, 2008
Jyoti Randhawa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   SHENTON GOMEZ:  Jyoti, thank you for coming to this press conference.  You must be quite pleased to be back here after winning two years in a row on this course.   
 JYOTI RANDHAWA:  Yeah, I mean, definitely.  This is a good golf course.  It's been lucky for me on the last few years.   
 So coming back to the golf course here, it does bring back a little high and you know when you play on a golf course and you know you can perform, it's good to be back and get your confidence up.   
 SHENTON GOMEZ:  How has the preparation been coming into this week?   
 JYOTI RANDHAWA:  Well, I had a good two months' break in the winter and then I went to the Far East and played three tournaments there.   
 You know, it was good that I went there and played there.  I was a little out of sorts, so playing there has got me back into the groove of tournament pressure and tournament golf.  So coming into the week, you feel good about playing in India.   
 SHENTON GOMEZ:  And what are your thoughts on the course this week, how is it laid out.   
 JYOTI RANDHAWA:  Frankly I'm not very impressed with the way the course is right now.  I guess the severe winter has hit most of the grass in the greens and the rough.  I have never seen Delhi Golf Club look this yellow.  It's always green; it's always lush; it's always very picturesque.  But unfortunately we've been very unlucky with the weather, and the thing that's most damaging are the greens.   
 The greens are good.  My regards to the greenskeeper, he has done a great job of it.  He's done his best that he could.  But you know, there's still a lot of improvement.  I wish this tournament was a month later.  It would be in good shape.   
 But, you know, saying that, it's the same for everybody.  The only thing that I feel is that Delhi Golf Club is not in it's best condition for the pros to come and play it, so I'm quite sure a few of them might be complaining.   
 SHENTON GOMEZ:  Still, you must be excited to be back playing in front of your home crowd.   
 JYOTI RANDHAWA:  Yeah, any time you play at Delhi Golf Club, and any time you play in Delhi, it's very special.  People come out and cheer you, and you know, it's good that people follow you and it's great for Indian golf and it's great for me.  It's great that we have this kind of golf tournament, and the first time a European Tour event is happening at Delhi Golf Club, so that says a lot.   
  
  Q.  Could an Indian win this week?   
 JYOTI RANDHAWA:  I think the Indian field is very strong. This golf course, it's one golf course that requires local knowledge, especially on the greens.  But this is a European Tour event and the world-class players are here.  You know, it's not that difficult for one to understand the golf course once you play on it.   
 But definitely, it's a very Indian field and the Indians are doing well in India and abroad.  That's a very good chance of an Indian doing well and probably winning the golf tournament.   
  
  Q.  Fancy your chances?   
 JYOTI RANDHAWA:  Well, I think my chances are pretty fair.  Golf is nobody's game; it's sometimes here, sometimes there.  I really want to do the best that I can, you know, try and not think about the golf tournament, not try and think how big the event is or what they are playing here.   
 You know, if I can just go back and play my game and bring the best that I can, so I'm quite sure I'll be right up there.   
  
  Q.  Good field this week, Ernie and Darren.   
 JYOTI RANDHAWA:  Ernie Els winning majors, it's great to have him here.  You know he's a great ambassador of golf.  Ernie and Tiger have really lifted this game up in the world.  So any one of those guys coming here and playing golf in the country, it says so much more what golf is doing in this country and how golf is developing in the country.   
  
  Q.  Do course conditions favour local players?   
 JYOTI RANDHAWA:  Well, the players seem to like it, because it's their first time here.  I've played this golf course when it was -- when it's been in it's greatest condition.  It's great right now.  I'm not saying it's not good.   
 But you know, the rough is dead, basically.  There's no rough around the greens.  The greens are, you know, quick, but they are not as true as they can be, because I've played this golf course in immaculate conditions, and you know, if Ernie is very happy with the golf course, I'm great that he is.   
 But having won tournaments here and having played golf here, I don't think that it can do much better.  It's 50 per cent of what it can be.  You know if it's good for the guys, it's great for us.   
  
  Q.  What do you think of the course changes?   
 JYOTI RANDHAWA:  I think the changes have been pretty good.  They make you think; it's not just pick-up-a-driver-and-hit anymore.  It's even more precise.  So the only thing I didn't like was that the fairways being too far back on No. 8, with that green you really can't hit a 3-iron.  Most guys might be hitting 2-iron into that hole.  But other than that, I think it's great.  The bunkers are very well placed and it's a great job done otherwise.   
  
  Q.  What would it mean for an Indian to win this week?   
 JYOTI RANDHAWA:  I think if somebody goes out and wins this golf tournament, it would be the greatest achievement for Indian golf having won a European Tour event in India.   
 So this tournament, coming into Delhi Golf Club, and beating the best field, it's going to be great for Indian golf, sure.   
  
  Q.  What's your schedule from here?   
 JYOTI RANDHAWA:  I'm playing this week and next week in Indonesia and then I come back and play two more weeks in India, Johnnie Walker.  Basically I'm going to try to play as many tournaments as I can on The European Tour, and take it from there.   
 If I can get into the Top-50 in the world, that would be gait.   
  
  Q.  Winning score?   
 JYOTI RANDHAWA:  I think it's going to be fairly -- anything between 14- and 18-under would win the golf tournament.   
  
  Q.  Lowest score ever?   
 JYOTI RANDHAWA:  Yes, I think there was a local event, I think I was 22-under.   
 SHENTON GOMEZ:  Jyoti, thank you very much for coming in and good luck this week.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT