HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 10, 2006
Jyoti Randhawa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:  69 today and 10 under par total.  You must be delighted to still be at the top of the leaderboard right now.
JYOTI RANDHAWA:  Yes, very delighted.  I didn't think I would end up leading the golf tournament after two days, especially in a field like this.  But I guess I played well and just happy to be here.
CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:  Must be especially pleasing, as well, with the way you started with two bogeys.  Just tell us about your start.
JYOTI RANDHAWA:  I guess I was a little excited going into the second round today, and I don't know why I went for those two pins.  I should have    well, I didn't know the pins were to tight.  I missed them this on the wrong side and couldn't get up and down and had two bogeys.  But I was lucky enough to have a few birdies after that, so that kept my round going.
CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:  Will you be looking at who is behind you on the leaderboard?
JYOTI RANDHAWA:  I just looked and saw Tiger Woods, 7 under, and that's something to be aware of.  I guess if I get to play with him, it would be an honour for me just to have a round of golf with him and just try to play my own game, see if I can play my own game the next two days, and see what happens.
Q.  You played great today, but I'm sure you must be disappointed with the way you attacked the par 5s.
JYOTI RANDHAWA:  Yeah, I think I made bogey coming in.  That was a bad tee shot.  And I didn't make any birdies on them, I didn't like that.  It's a tight tee shot on the par 5s to be able to go for the green in two.  I didn't really feel comfortable.  I hit the fairways, but then going for the green, one I hit in the water on 18 and I was lucky enough to make par and was happy with that.  I probably should have made one or two birdies, definitely.  All said and done, 3 under, I'm happy.  If I'm leader at the halfway stage, you can't ask for more.
Q.  Have you ever been in a position of leading after the first two round, and what happened in those tournaments?
JYOTI RANDHAWA:  I think on the average, say ten times I was leading going into the third round, five or six times I've come out winning 50 per cent of the time.  I don't know my average but I think that's about it.
Q.  So what will you take    obviously you have great experience from leading from the front.  What will you take leading from those experiences?
JYOTI RANDHAWA:  I think just try to play my game.  I did something to be in this place, to be leading the golf tournament, and that's all I have to do for the next two days.  If I can keep my mind on what I have done the first two days and keep doing it the last two days, I think I've pretty much done my job, and from there, I'll take it as it comes.
Q.  You mentioned earlier that you noticed Tiger Woods'  name on the leaderboard now and that you would be honoured to play with him.  But when you see a name like that, in your mind, would you prefer him to be there or not to be there?
JYOTI RANDHAWA:  Well, I think this is golf and the best player will come up to win the golf tournament.  So whether it's Tiger Woods or somebody else, somebody is going to come up and win the tournament, and it's going to be the best player that week.

Having said that, Tiger Woods is the No. 1 player in the world and he is in good form.  I think he's going to give it his full try.
Q.  You won the last two events you played in and you're leading at the halfway stage, what have been the key factors that you've played so well the last few weeks?
JYOTI RANDHAWA:  I think I've relaxed a bit on the golf course.  I started enjoying it more and try to accept the bad shots and the good shots.  You know, it's golf; you're going to hit bad shot; you're going to hit good shots.  As long as you accept them and move on and focus and have good concentration, I think that's what I've been doing, and I think that's what has made me play well.
Q.  You are a natural shooter.  Has shooting helped you in the game of golf?
JYOTI RANDHAWA:  Yeah, definitely.  I think every time you    you play any other sport, you excel in any sport, you learn a lot about your sport.  Shooting is one thing where it's all in the mind.  A missed shot or a missed bird, a clay bird, is a thought that comes in your mind and makes you miss it; so it's a lack of concentration.  Definitely that's what golf is all about.  If you miss a shot, you were not focused on that shot at that time.  It helps a lot and that's one of the reasons why I do a lot of shooting because it helps keep your mind focused.
Q.  Can you evaluate your overall result the whole year in 2006 so far with a few more events going, and what's your expectation and what's your plan for next year?
JYOTI RANDHAWA:  I think I had an above average year for 2006, because from the Asian Tour I've gone to The European Tour and playing full time there, and finishing in the Top 70 says a lot.  I finished strongly if the end.  And I'm pretty satisfied with the way I played in Europe because, you know, first year out and getting used to the conditions and getting used to the greens and the wind and the rain has helped me a lot and made me a better player.

So I think I'll improve on it this year or next year.
CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:  Thank you very much, Joyti, and all the best this weekend.
JYOTI RANDHAWA:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT