HONG KONG OPEN
October 16, 2014
Jyoti Randhawa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Happy with your start?  
JYOTI RANDHAWA: For me, it's really awesome because I've been playing decent in the last few weeks but haven't been able to putt up a good number.   Today I really putted my heart out, so I'm really happy with the way it went, and I'm glad I got the pace on the greens right.  
   
 Q.   You know this place well and you've come here for years.   It doesn't give up scores easily, does it?  
JYOTI RANDHAWA:   Yeah, the golf course is playing a little easier than past years because the greens are soft and the fairways are soft, so you know you can really attack them.   This is the first time I've played this golf course being so soft.   It used to be very hard when you play in November.   You have to lay‑up your shots and run it up.   
Right now you can go straight for the flags.   That does help a little bit, but the rough is up and if you hit it in the rough, then it's tough.   But you've got to putt, so I putted well and that's the score.   
   
 Q.   You'd better put the score in context because you've been playing pretty well on the Asian Tour, haven't you?   
JYOTI RANDHAWA:   Yeah, I've had some decent finishes, just trying to get four rounds together.   Hopefully this week, if I can do that, it will be great.   Leader in the clubhouse right now, I'm very happy with the way I played today.  
   
 Q.   And yet from a European Tour perspective, where have you been?   We haven't seen you for so long.   
JYOTI RANDHAWA:   I lost my card a few years back, and I'm just trying to get my game right.   You know, I think it's working right now, so let's hope I can put a few numbers together and get back on The European Tour.   
   
 Q.   I know you had some injury issues, as well.   Are they nicely behind you or something that you manage?   
JYOTI RANDHAWA:   Yeah, well, I'm not getting any younger, so I've got to keep fitter.   Injuries come, but I'm quite good right now.   
   
 Q.   Still plenty of ambition in this game, I'm sure.   
JYOTI RANDHAWA:   This is one game you can really play for a long time, so I'm hoping my better years are yet to come.   
  
 Q.   You talk about getting fitter; has your regime changed?   
JYOTI RANDHAWA:     Yeah, I've been working out at home, the three months I had off, so been working on my physical fitness with my coach.   He's in India.   We've been doing a lot of cardio and just legs, lower part, building my lower body.   
Because of the swing change, I'm a little better, swinging more from the inside than the outside and I have a more stable base, so my base was not that strong.   Still is not that strong, but I'm working on it.  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT