WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 7, 2009
Jyoti Randhawa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Thoughts on your round today?   
 JYOTI RANDHAWA: I have been struggling for the last few months and I guess came at the right time. So any time you shoot under par on this golf course, it's good, because you know, the way they tuck the pins, it's playing really tough and I'm very happy and very lucky to be where I am and let's hope I can carry on.  
  
  Q. When you find something after a few months of indifference, you sometimes find it's good for one day and not the next, so it must be pleasing that there's a consistency here?  
 JYOTI RANDHAWA: The thing is to stick with it and to be committed to it. So when it comes and you're not committed, it goes away. So luckily I've been focused and I've been trying to do that.   
 You have your bad shots, but you stick to it and you keep doing it. And in the end it pays off, so I'm hoping that it stays and I play well tomorrow.  
  
  Q. You're certainly keeping up a fine position on the leaderboard, aren't you.   
 JYOTI RANDHAWA: It's not easy out there. Like I said, guys are trying to get aggressive, make a few bogeys and suddenly you're out of the tournament. So I just played consistent golf, stuck to what I needed to do and made some putts.   
  
  Q. I take it excites you as well after the last couple of months to know that you're back involved in a tournament again?  
 JYOTI RANDHAWA: Yeah, it's been a long time. I was playing well beginning of the season, I won one and finished second in Malaysia and all that. But then I was trying to change a few things and I went back to the way I want to play, so lucky to be here.  
  
  Q. In it terms of Order of Merit you're safe and secure anyway, but this will do no harm?  
 JYOTI RANDHAWA: Yeah, a good one tomorrow and be good to go to Dubai and play that. Let's hope that I can do something.  
  
  Q. Bearing in mind that you are playing with a couple of American players today, I wondered if you had aspirations like some of your countrymen to go to the United States.   
 JYOTI RANDHAWA: I think it's a progression. I've played the Asian Tour, I've played the Japanese Tour and I'm playing The European Tour. If the time comes and if I'm ready, I'll go to the u tour.   
 But right now I'm in Europe and I need to make a mark in Europe before I can go there and I'm pretty happy playing in Europe.  
  
  Q. Were you picking the brains of Brian Gay and Pat Perez, asking what it's like?  
 JYOTI RANDHAWA: No, I enjoyed the game and pretty focused players, so I learned a lot from them today.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT