WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 6, 2009
Jyoti Randhawa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Two rounds, you're in good position. 
 JYOTI RANDHAWA: Yeah, I had a steady start and kept on making pars until the time I birdied one hole, and then I hit the ball not as good as yesterday. 
 But you know, I'm well focused and whenever I got a chance I took advantage of that and that was a good point today.

 Q. Playing two good rounds, to be up there, does this heighten your sense of focus and your sense of concentration? 
 JYOTI RANDHAWA: Yeah, already I could see that today. I was trying to move up and do good. So getting into good position in two days, it does help you focus better.

 Q. In terms of ball striking-wise, has it been good? 
 JYOTI RANDHAWA: I hit a few bad, ones but I also hit a few good ones. I know what I need to do and I'm focused on that and I'm confident that I'll do what I can do. 

 Q. Quite a few birdies on the back nine coming in. Were they good chances out there?
 JYOTI RANDHAWA: Yeah, I think the one that I got a chance, I converted. But I think two pars that I missed were 3-putts, I 3-putted. And on the par 3 on the back nine, also, I hit on the green and didn't make two good putts. 
 But having said that, learn from that and hopefully shoot better tomorrow.

 Q. What will be important for you to do over the weekend? 
 JYOTI RANDHAWA: I need to putt better than this. The greens are tricky but guys are holing putts. It's a putting contest now. Whoever makes a lot of putts is going to win because the greens are very tricky. 

 Q. When you have a week like this, do you forget all of the troubles that you've had in the past? Do you feel like a new man this week; is it a new beginning? 
 JYOTI RANDHAWA: Golf is the same, every week is a new week and you have to forget the past or the future and stay in the present and focus.

 Q. Is that hard to do?
 JYOTI RANDHAWA: Well, it's been hard for me the last few months and hopefully it should come on now, so waiting for that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT