NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: MAPLE LEAFS v HURRICANES
May 18, 2002
Paul Maurice
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Apparently you guys were breaking down video yesterday to see what you could find; did the video reveal anything?

COACH MAURICE:   Well, overall, it's going to be a lot quicker than a lot of the things we did and we have to recognize that.  Just recognize what we're seeing out there, forechecking, some basic stuff.

Q.  Possibly there are a few Leafs regulars coming back for Game 2.  Does that change any possibilities for lineups, that sort of thing? 

COACH MAURICE:   Well, you watch it early, but I don't imagine the style of the game is going to change at that point because of that.  I don't think you are going to see their team deviate a lot from what's helped them win their last three games with the guys that they have.  They may make a lineup that won't necessarily reflect changes in their system or the style of their game.

Q.  What sort of criteria do you use for switching Archie and Kevin? 

COACH MAURICE:   Mostly just feeling the net, if the guy is comfortable in there, getting the breaks.  Archie made some real fine saves and he was overworked in the last few games but he's been solid for us.  That's all done by feel. 

Q.  Any appreciation for the fact, an historical aspect, it's been 30 years since a team has successfully used two goaltenders in the playoffs? 

COACH MAURICE:   We've got some long numbers attached, since the last time it happened, when you attach that label, you get some pretty good numbers there. 

Q.  Do you guys do anything differently with Archie as opposed to Kevin?

COACH MAURICE:   No.  The big difference is probably for the other team's shooters.  Neither one of them is going to break the team out with the puck, and we've actually kind of assimilated in how they handle, so it's not a change for our defense.  When Tom Barrasso was here, there was a big difference and I think it took us a while to adjust to that but these guys are pretty similar. 

Q.  Do you expect to come out tomorrow with as much pressure early?

COACH MAURICE:   I think we played strong.  Except for Game 3 of the New Jersey series, we came come out strong and quick, and we'll try to maintain that through the course of the game.

Q.  Do you think you've got to get your speed back to get an advantage?

COACH MAURICE:   We are not going to look as fast this series as we did in the Montreal series; that's just the way we stack up.  We have to accept it's going to be a lot more of a grind along the boards than the last series. 

Q.  Is that any different than you would have expected coming here, knowing Toronto's situation with injuries? 

COACH MAURICE:   No.  Regardless of anything, they have gotten themselves to a position where they are comfortable with the game they are playing, and regardless of who is in the lineup they are not going to change that.  And with some of their top gun players back, that's not always a bad thing for the other team.

Q.  Losing Game 1 and home ice, the fact that the team is not panicking, what does this say about the team?

COACH MAURICE:   Well, we lost home ice in the Montreal series, and I don't think it's a major concern.  We've been a very good on home ice here, but we were a very, very good road team this season.  There's not a concern that you can't win on the road, even this late in the playoffs. 

Q.  What do you think has been the key for the Leafs?

COACH MAURICE:   I think their success was based on a five-man game.  They have gotten it done when they needed to all year.  At the end of the day, the decisions that you make on the bench are right or wrong based on players performance, and they have been great performers. 

Q.  Is it a surprise to you that here you are in the Eastern Conference Finals, having success sooner than expected?

COACH MAURICE:   I probably have a higher opinion of our team than other people do.  Certainly not surprised in any manner that they are here. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT