LOUISIANA STATE UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
January 14, 2015
Les Miles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 Q.   How does this strengthen your staff in terms of recruiting?   
COACH MILES:   I think it's a much more enthusiastic‑‑ I think there is a lot more energy in the room.   I think there is a lot to do.   I think there is an opportunity to certainly putting the defensive coordinator in place, the defensive line coach for the future, and both guys will go out and represent LSU extremely well.   
I think there's a lot, how much, I don't know, but I can tell you that these two hires will be met with great enthusiasm.  
   
 Q.   How much was that a key there in getting a fiery guy like Ed on this staff to maybe rock your boat and kind of spring some life back into the program?   Was it needed or was it just‑‑  
COACH MILES:   Oh, bring some life back into the program?   Give me a ball, I want to throw something at the guy.   
There are strengths and weaknesses of all of our coaching staff, and to bring on a guy that has great enthusiasm and energy, represents it in how he'll coach.   Represents it in really his every day.   If you get a leader as an assistant coach, it's always better.   It affects it.   He does more than his job.   He just affects the room.  
   
 Q.   Did you ever in the process consider adding an additional defensive coach through reconstruction of the staff, if you will, another guy on that side of the ball?   
COACH MILES:   We have four there now.   I think that's kind of how we're going to go.   No.  
   
 Q.   What is the status of Brick Haley.   You said you have four.   Where is he at now?   
COACH MILES:   Brick, first of all, has done a great job.   His contribution here is valued and respected.   But he's currently an intern for us, and we encourage him.  
   
 Q.   Is there any type of sales pitch for you?   I guess if you're in his shoes, what are the benefits of staying here and not taking an assistant or coordinator job?   
COACH MILES:   Well, certainly those are things that he would speak to, not I.   But the good news is he's in position to do the things that he wants to do.  
   
 Q.   With both of your hires, do you expect to consider a louder practice field, much louder?   
COACH MILES:   Yeah, considering occasionally we play music, I would think that there is plenty of decibels out there.   But I would have to say that there could be more noise.  
   
 Q.   When did you finally go ahead, and Ed said he was told to get here at 9:00 a.m., when was that told to him and when did you kind of lock him up?   
COACH MILES:   I want to say it was around 5 o'clock yesterday.   About 5 o'clock yesterday.   I would have to say we were fortunate to have that in a position where we could offer him an opportunity and have him come down the road.   He was not tied up with another team.   I had chased Ed around several times for other openings, and Ed and I knew each other.   We talked football.   I mean, we were well ahead in the hiring there and same thing with Kevin.   I kind of tried to get him on our campus except for an issue with a Clemson buyout; he had already been here for some time.   
But, again, that was fine with us.  
   
 Q.   5 o'clock yesterday is around the same time that Kevin Steele, the news was coming out about him.   How were these hires interconnected?   Were they connected at all?   You'll hire this guy, that means I'm going to hire that guy?   
COACH MILES:   I don't know necessarily that they were connected in any way other than it was what was best for LSU.   You know, we gave great thought to it.   It took a long time, the process.   And we're, again, really think these hires are just what we need.   We're a team whose goals are these:   To win the West, win the SEC, play in the tournament and win the National Championship.   These are the kind of guys that are motivated and really have the energy to attain those goals.  
   
 Q.   Coach, motivated and also great recruiters, of course, both of these, and you've put together some great recruiting classes recently.   What do you think about the idea of a recruiting dream team?   
COACH MILES:   Oh, yeah, that's a great idea.   Heck yeah, as long we have basketball stuff to wear.   We'll see if Malone will come down from northern Louisiana and we're all over it.   
Honestly, I think we're much improved and our staff did a great job.   I think here's what happens in a staff:   The assistant coaches all compete.   They compete for recruits.   They compete to make our team better.   What Kevin Steele and Ed Orgeron will bring, these are the things that ‑‑ in that meeting that we were all in both guys shared the personal theory, and both guys shared the knowledge of what was the lay of the land of recruiting in a particular situation.   It really was just what you wanted.   Again, I think these guys will show the way.  
   
 Q.   Is this the best group of recruiters you have in one staff?   
COACH MILES:   Yeah, I think these two guys really put us in a position to have just an excellent recruiting staff, and there is a lot to it.   First of all, you have to watch the film and make the evaluation.   That evaluation has to go through a staff.   Then to get to know the people, that family, that mother and father, et cetera.   So there is a great way that these guys have of doing that, and it would be sincere and real and it will be great for our staff.  
   
 Q.   Coach Steele, what makes you think he'll be a good game‑day defensive coordinator coach for you?   
COACH MILES:   He has really been an excellent coach every place he's been.   His wealth of knowledge, his ability to communicate the plan, his enjoyment for his players, the idea that there is a relationship there that is awfully important to him.   And we'll put him on the board, and he has some great answers.   He understands football.   Here's a guy that's coordinated and been the head coach and really been alongside some of the best defensive teams in the country for years for a career.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT