U.S. OPEN
August 30, 1994
Lori McNeil
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How good is this girl? 

LORI McNEIL: She was good. I would say she's a steady -- she's good. She's good, but I
don't think I played that well today. But I think she'd be -- she'd have better results on
clay. Obviously, she's more of a clay-courter, she stays on the baseline, she's not an
attacking player. She's more suited to clay, I would think. 

Q. It looked like she kind of took you out of your game. Every time you tried to go to
the net, she passed you. She was just getting to everything. 

LORI McNEIL: I thought it was just a matter of timing and sometimes I was running a
little bit to come in and the ball sits up a little bit more here, and the court is really
not that fast. So sometimes I was rushing a little bit. 

Q. You were struggling with your serve a lot today? 

LORI McNEIL: Yes, especially in the fifth -- sixth game or seventh game, first set. 

Q. Was there anything in particular? I mean, just a lot of first faults? 

LORI McNEIL: Yes, I would just say not a good day overall. 

Q. After the way you played at Wimbledon, how big of a disappointment does this become?


LORI McNEIL: It's always a disappointment when you lose a match. But I think since
Wimbledon I haven't played many matches and I think it showed. I only got to play one
tournament which was the Canadian Open and it is not the kind of preparation that I like
to have. But it was a challenge for me to go out there and play. 

Q. Is she the kind of kid who will be sort of a journey player all the way around or do
you see great things from her? 

LORI McNEIL: It's really hard to say right now. I think she has to add more weapons to
be a great player. But she's definitely a good player. But she needs to have a bigger
serve. She's just steadier and moves around the court well, big court coverage and her
ground strokes are good, a lot of spin, but nothing really to knock you off the court or
anything. I would say she's a good player right now. 

Q. What's your feeling about this surface and the speed it's playing at and -- 

LORI McNEIL: I mean, I like hardcourts. It's kind of a medium hardcourt. Some of the
courts are probably slower than others. I know that, like, Stadium or Grand Stand or 16,
definitely slower there and probably were resurfaced more recently then the others. The
others are kind of medium to medium fast. 

Q. Thank you, Lori. 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT