CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 23, 2018
Celeste Dao
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. First round in the books here.  How did you feel out there?
CELESTE DAO: Really good.  I started a little bit nervous 1st hole, but I could keep up and I was patient.  On the back nine I did pretty well.
Q. What was the game plan coming into today at the start of the round?
CELESTE DAO: Like I said, being patient.  That's my big thing to play well.
I knew in the back nine there were par-5s and par 4s waiting for me, so, yeah.
Q. Think your experience as the U.S. women's Open helped you today?
CELESTE DAO: For sure.  I was really less nervous than the U.S. Open and helped me enormous.
Yeah, I felt home, and everybody who was following me was just helping me to be less nervous, and I was really happy, too.
Q. Can you take us through that 1st hole.  I didn't see it, but the first shot went a little wide of the fairway.  Can you just walk me through?
CELESTE DAO: Yeah, I pushed it at the right and I thought it was (indiscernible), but I hit a tree and I was under a tree and then I miss.  I like hit in the (indiscernible) because it was like under the pine tree.
So I made a double, but I made a good up and down from the bunker to save my double, so I was pretty happy.
Q. You used a putter on that second shot you said?
CELESTE DAO: No, I used a 5-wood because I couldn't reach with an iron because it was really like a huge pine tree.
But it's fine.
Q. Okay.
CELESTE DAO: Yeah.
Q. That's really something, to get the up and down and put that out of your mind.
CELESTE DAO: Yeah.  I turned the page and I was ready to make birdies after.
Q. Some would say that's a sign of a mature golfer who has played a lot of golf.  Here you are, 17, and you're able to do that.  Can you tell me how you put a hole you don't want aside and come through for the rest of the round?
CELESTE DAO: Exactly.  So after I made a birdie I made like, I don't know which length, but it was pretty long putt.
Just put me more calm.  I was like, Okay, I'm ready to go.  It's going to be a good day.  I knew after that day I was good to go.  Yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT