MLB WORLD SERIES: NATIONALS VS ASTROS
October 29, 2019
Max Scherzer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Washington - 7, Houston - 2   
MAX SCHERZER: The cortisone shot worked. That relieved the pressure on the nerve, and then keep applying heat. Our chiropractor, he does amazing work, he was able to go in there and make adjustment. We did two treatments of it and really freed up the neck, the C5-C6 area, along with the trap, spasm, really felt like it subsided. And even when I was warming up tonight I felt really good. I'm good to go.   
 Q.  Why were you warming up tonight?  
MAX SCHERZER: Because there were scenarios where I was going to pitch tonight.   
 Q.  How long do you think you can go tomorrow?  
MAX SCHERZER: Should be good.   
 Q.  Normal start?  
MAX SCHERZER: It's Game 7. Let's go.   
 Q.  Two days or three days ago, whatever it was, you never could have imagined this. What are your emotions going into this just knowing you're getting a chance?  
MAX SCHERZER: I don't know. Everybody believes in each other in this clubhouse. When I couldn't even move my right arm the other day, when I was in severe pain, I just believed in the next guy up. I believed in Joe Ross that he could go out there and get the job done. Unfortunately we didn't win that game.   
But everybody had the belief in me, and the doctors and that if I could get right I can be ready for Game 7. Stras went out there and had the game of his life. We all believed he could do that.   
We're just playing great team ball and here we go.   
 Q.  You're a huge competitor. How much do you thrive in having this moment, Game 7 of the World Series?  
MAX SCHERZER: That's what you live for. For me, I need to get in my pregame routine right now, and that's where I'm at mentally, here we go.   
 Q.  What did you think of Strasburg?  
MAX SCHERZER: Unbelievable, just to be able to go out there and pitch like that. They came out aggressive against him, but the way he just executed pitches, it was unbelievable.   
It's tough for me to watch. I'm still kind of in game mode because I had to get locked in to get ready to pitch. It was tough for me to see all the pitches from the pen. The job he did for us, the effort, that's just world class.   
 Q.  How much did you pitch?  
MAX SCHERZER: Only a handful of pitches, just got off the mound, but not enough to affect anything at all.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT