NL DIVISION SERIES: NATIONALS VS DODGERS
October 6, 2019
Max Scherzer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. As of Friday night you weren't sure what is the plan was. What was the conversation like the last couple days to decide to go in 4 instead of tonight?
MAX SCHERZER: We talked after the game. Throwing Sanchez Game 3 and let me get an extra day would probably be the best thing for me and for the team. So that was Davey's decision and it's Davey's call.
Q. Practically speaking, can you describe what the difference that one day makes for you? Is it in terms of pitches you can throw tomorrow or is it just how the arm feels, what's the biggest difference?
MAX SCHERZER: Everything. I would say probably the number of pitches you can go in a specific day. I know if I can go tomorrow, I can probably give more. I don't even know what the number is right now. That's kind of out the door. It's just how you feel and communicate with the coaches on what you think can you do and stay within yourself and communicate where you're at.
Q. Your velocity is up this postseason not just compared to the regular season, but also previous postseason appearances. I know it's a small sample size, but is that something you've noticed and then also, how?
MAX SCHERZER: Yeah, I've noticed it. I've had some fun with the other guys in the clubhouse. Still the old guy, can still throw hard. But for me it's just a mentality of just going out there with everything on the line. The atmospheres I've pitched in, here with the Wild Card game and then there on the road in Dodger Stadium, I mean it's been intense. So you're going to get the best out of me. And there's no regular season environment that I can replicate that.
Q. You would have been teammates with Anibal for quite awhile and had a history with him. What have you seen in him this year that is anything different, has he changed or is he the same guy on and off the field?
MAX SCHERZER: He's the same guy on and off the field. He's such a great clubhouse guy. He has so much fun with everybody. What he can do on the mound, yeah, he's a little bit different than when I played with him a few years ago, especially now he can cut the ball and what he can do with the location of that, that's the biggest change in what he's been able to do since I played with him in Detroit. But he's always had the affinity to able to just change speeds on anything and he can change speeds on his changeup as well as anybody in the game. He's just a treat to watch because of, he's got a high intellect, a high baseball IQ of when to mix and match all of his pitches together and when to change speeds and when not. So that's the same Sanchie I've always played with.
Q. Can you envision a scenario where Nationals have the lead, it's the middle innings, you can go for a 2-1 lead tonight where you would say, you know what, let me pitch a couple innings tonight, worry about tomorrow, tomorrow?
MAX SCHERZER: No, because we have to play a game tomorrow no matter what, so I'm -- unless Davey got crazy and came to me and said, let's do it, so then I would say yes. But I just don't envision that happening.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT