WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC: 1ST ROUND POOL C
March 10, 2017
Giancarlo Stanton
Christian Yelich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Christian, the other day I think in an article you said you would have played in this tournament for free; didn't know you were getting paid.  Talk about how excited you are personally to be wearing USA colors.
CHRISTIAN YELICH: Yeah, I didn't know we got paid at all, so I was in it just to put the USA jersey on and represent our country, and it's an honor.  It is my first time being able to wear a USA jersey, so it's something I'm really looking forward to, and excited that we're getting it going tonight.
Q. I don't know if you were here last night, maybe saw the crowds, but the stadium was kind of electric.  Do you guys look forward to that?  You aren't even in your season yet but you maybe get that kind of a playoff atmosphere.
GIANCARLO STANTON: I wasn't here, I saw highlights and I was here last time, so I remember.  The buzz in here is incredible during this time, and I look forward to doing it again and having that atmosphere and set up for Opening Day, set up for the Mid-Summer Classic through here.  So it's going to be -- Miami's going to be popping for a little bit.
Q. For both you guys, curious, what have your interactions with Jim Leyland been like, and how cool is it to play for a guy like him?
GIANCARLO STANTON: He's been awesome.  Laid back.  He knows what to do to get our work done.  Be precise, be alert, be on time, be ready to go.  That's all we need.
Q. For either of you, how aware is the team really of the 10-10 record these last three times at the WBC, and how important is it to maybe make a better showing this time?
GIANCARLO STANTON: Yeah, I wasn't sure of the full record until right now, but yeah, it's great to be here, great to show up, but we're also here to perform and win.  So, we got to do it one step at a time, one round at a time.
Q. Do you know if you will be playing tomorrow in a hostile environment?  Because almost the majority of fans are from the Dominican Republic.
CHRISTIAN YELICH: It's going to be a great atmosphere.  I don't know if I would say it's going to be a hostile environment, but I think it's an environment that we're all looking forward to playing in and experiencing, and we got to take care of business tonight first, though.  We can't get caught looking ahead to that next game.  We've got to go out and play well tonight, and then I think everybody's kind of looking forward to that game tomorrow.
Q. You both play in the National League, what about facing a starting pitcher from Colombia that plays in the American League?  How is that?  Is it difficult to know the routine, the pitching form?
GIANCARLO STANTON: Yeah, American League we don't get to face too often, every four years or whatnot.  So, it will be similar to facing some of the guys on the teams we don't know that aren't in the league that we haven't faced before.  So the only thing we'll have more numbers and video on him as opposed to some of the other guys.  So, you just watch that, download the information, and go out there with what you've got.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT