NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: LIGHTNING v RANGERS
May 25, 2015
Marc Staal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What did they do yesterday that was different in the last couple games? 
MARC STAAL:   I think they're cheating a little less on the offense.   I think when we got our chances to score, they were still all back, they had numbers back in the zone collapsing. 
Other than that, they were taking lanes away and blocking shots a little more so than they have early on in the series, so it was making it a little more difficult for us to try to get one by Bishop.

Q.   When they're playing that way, is it about getting a shot quickly or is it about making an extra pass to get them off (Indiscernible)? 
MARC STAAL:   I think shooting pucks to the net.   When you think quick, maybe hit something, deflects off someone and just caused them to turn and react and start causing some panic on their end.   When you start throwing pucks to the net, it causes confusion, and we could have done a better job of that last week.

Q.   You guys have been in this position a bit the last couple years.   But does it get any tougher to have to be in this situation so many times? 
MARC STAAL:   No, I mean, it's playoffs.   You're going to have your back against the wall.   Like I said, we had a number of games where it's win or go home, and I think we have a lot of guys in our room that thrive on the situation where you've got to be at your best to win a hockey game, and that's the way we look at it. 
You've got to go in tomorrow night confident in the way we know how to play and just go out there and play our best game.   We're a tough out, and we'll give it our best effort tomorrow and try to get a win.

Q.   There are a lot of guys (Indiscernible) like you said.   Is Hank one of the best when the chips are down of being elevated? 
MARC STAAL:   Yeah, when we need him to close the door, he does that.   There have been a lot of games where it's one shot or one chance that can be the difference in the game, and he's come up big for us in those moments when we need him.   I expect nothing less tomorrow night.

Q.   There may be a chance too that the other guys are a young group, and a lot of them have never been here to a Cup Finals or almost none of them have been to the Cup Finals, maybe take advantage of the giddiness that might exist right before the game anyway? 
MARC STAAL:   Yeah, we know the feeling of having an opportunity to close out at home, and we know none of them want to come back to MSG for a Game 7. 
I think we go in there and play our game, play confident, set the tempo, and we'll give ourselves a good chance to win that hockey game. 
They're a talented, skilled group over there.   It's not going to be an easy game, but I think we're looking forward to the challenge.

Q.   You got a win here last time, do you feel confident going out on that ice? 
MARC STAAL:   Yeah, we've been a confident road team all year.   It doesn't change the way we play.   We enjoy the challenge of going into someone else's rink and winning a game, so that's not going to change tomorrow.

Q.   Is there a different attitude with this team in this type of situation now compared to in the past?   Are you guys calmer now in this situation than you were three years ago? 
MARC STAAL:   Yeah, I think so.   I think the more experience you have in these types of games, you can draw from it.   I think even saying that, once the puck drops, it's two teams trying to win a hockey game, and you have to figure out a way to do that on that night.   We've been successful the last few times we've had to do it, and we're confident we'll do it again. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT