NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: RANGERS v CANADIENS
May 28, 2014
Marc Staal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Maybe Montreal has a lot of life after a game like that.   Where do you guys go from being up in a series 3‑1?   
MARC STAAL:   Yeah, you win a game and things change in your locker room and you start feeling better about yourselves.   Yeah, obviously, we know how it feels coming back in a series like that, but it doesn't change anything in our room.   We were as confident as ever going into our building and looking forward to it.  
   
 Q.   How do you guys, when you're in Game 7s and facing elimination, how do you duplicate that urgency?   
MARC STAAL:   Yeah, hey, you've got to replicate that desperation.   I think our mood and attitude for the game, we were ready to go last night for reasons.   Crazy game, and we just couldn't get ahold of it.   We'll obviously regroup today and wake up tomorrow and get excited and relish that opportunity at home to try to win the series.  
   
 Q.   Last night, obviously, there were a lot of defensive break downs.   How do you, when you try to repair those in a game time, is it adjustments or is it a question of going back to the previous systems?   
MARC STAAL:   Yeah, I mean, it wasn't anything adjustment‑wise they were doing.   It was more just us, a lot of times during the game it's not being on the same page and not doing the same things over and over that you're used to doing.   So we just had to get back to the way we know how to play.   For a large portion of that game last night, it wasn't the way we were playing, so we get an opportunity to change that.  
   
 Q.   Obviously, you're focused on tomorrow night.   But the fact that Game 7 will be back here in this environment, does it feel like it's a really important game tomorrow?   
MARC STAAL:   We want to finish at home, obviously.   We've had the opportunity to do it last night, and we weren't able to.   Playing in our building, obviously, we don't want to come back here for a Game 7.   We want to have that desperation of a must‑win game and bring it into our building and get a win.  
   
 Q.   You've been around Henrik for a number of years now.   Obviously, being pulled last night, how do you feel he'll bounce back?   
MARC STAAL:   Yeah, he'll be fine.   It's the last concern of anyone on our team.   
   
  
  
   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT