NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: DEVILS v RANGERS
May 20, 2012
Marc Staal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MARC STAAL:   I think he's a pretty honest player.   He's been that way his whole career.   If you look back, he plays hard, and that was barely‑‑ I haven't really seen the hit yet.   But it's pretty necessary.  
   
 Q.   Coach was saying you take pride when you get hit hard, you spring back up, you don't try to sell it to the refs.   Do you feel a little bit of that is going on the other side in the series?  
MARC STAAL:   We pride ourselves playing hard between the whistles.   And we don't have guys on our team that dive or try to embellish when you're trying to play hard.   
And as far as other teams go, it's not for me to concern myself with.  
   
 Q.   Have you noticed the picks Tort was talking about on that power play to keep you guys from getting out to (indiscernible)?  
MARC STAAL:   Yeah, it's been a few times that kind of try to get him away from in front of the net.   So it's obviously something they talked about and they were trying to do.   And they did their best to try to get around that.   But sometimes you just can't because (indiscernible) for their team.   
But hopefully it's something that they'll keep their radar up.  
   
 Q.   Is it more prevalent with them than it is with other teams?  
MARC STAAL:   I think it's probably more noticeable against these guys, just in front of the net they try to tie you up.   And for us as D, we try to stay loose in case something breaks down and they get in your way.   
So hopefully some of it is stressed get their radar up a little bit.  
   
 Q.   Is getting the radar up the only way you fight through something like that or a tactic like that?  
MARC STAAL:   You have to be aware that's what they're trying to do and try not to get tied up with them and make sure you try to stay loose as best you can.  
   
 Q.   Don't want to look too far ahead, but you have a chance to get a jump in this series and protect yourselves against playing another extended series to help you down the road?  
MARC STAAL:   It's a big game, the next one.   And we want to come out with a good effort to try to get it.   It's a big one for us.   We know that.   We're going to go out there and try and get it done.  
   
 Q.   What are some of the things you've done over the course of your career to sort of improve the offensive side of the game?   Because the "D" man in the Playoffs has been pretty good for you guys.   
MARC STAAL:   Yeah, I think anytime in the Playoffs it gets so congested and tight defensively that if you can join and make them back off a little bit and get your shots through, it will help our forwards out big time.   (Indiscernible) help them out that way, it's been a lot of fun.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT