NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: DEVILS v RANGERS
May 18, 2012
Marc Staal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Marc, are you feeling any affects from that Bernier hit, your hand or just shaken up?   
MARC STAAL:   No, I got the wind knocked out of me, but it's fine now.   I'm good.  
   
 Q.   In the playoffs, how important is it to have the power play going the way it has been in the postseason?   
MARC STAAL:   Yeah, it's big, I think.   At times we've come up with some big goals.   Any time we can chip in one or two in a game, it's a huge help, and it boosts your offense.   So we'll try to get that going.  
   
 Q.   Do you think your game is back to where it was before you got hurt?   
MARC STAAL:   I feel good.   I mean, I'm trying to get better and better every game.   The playoffs, you have to be at your best, and I'm trying to do that.  
   
 Q.   When Tortorella benches Gaborik and doesn't play him for the first 11 minutes of the period is that a message to the rest of the team that you've got to make plays?   
MARC STAAL:   Yeah, I think it's the certain way we've played all year long.   I think obviously that situation is between Gabby and Torts, but everyone knows how they have to play and you want to be at your best.   You have to make sure you're at the top of your game or you'll be held accountable.  
   
 Q.   Were you guys in general annoyed at the way you played that game?   
MARC STAAL:   Annoyed?   
   
 Q.   Is there a better word for it?   
MARC STAAL:   Yeah, I don't want to say annoyed.   Obviously certain times in the first period we were out worked, and they were getting to more pucks fast in our zone and that's something that we don't like to have happen to us.   So we'll try to fix that next game.   
   
 Q.   Has there been any more space for the defensemen in this series to kind of come up and join or are you just doing a good job with what you're working and what you get?   
MARC STAAL:   Well, obviously they're forechecking hard when we can get out of our end zone clean, we're looking to jump in.   The key part of that is to get out in possession, or make plays and get involved in the rush.   So, that's a big part of it.   We're just chipping it, and getting in the forecheck, our forwards will do a good job getting in the zone and trying to help out.  
   
 Q.   How long or how deep into a series do you get before you're comfortable, exactly with what the other team is doing?   The Senators played a certain way and the Caps.   How soon before you get comfortable or you can anticipate where the open ice is going to be?  
MARC STAAL:   I think the last game was a good indication of how they play.   Like you said, the farther you go into the series, you get more comfortable, and you know where the ice is and where they're going to be.   So that will definitely help us going forward.  
   
 Q.   Was it nice to get away from the rink yesterday?   
MARC STAAL:   Yeah, it was nice to have a day off and get away from the rink, that's for sure.  
   
 Q.   Are you doing anything differently to handle the forecheck?   
MARC STAAL:   No I don't think.   So they dump a lot of pucks.   We know that.   They don't care to cross the blue line all too often.   We have to make sure that we just get back quick, and we're talking and trying to get out as quick as possible.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT