NHL ALL-STAR WEEKEND
January 25, 2008
Marc Staal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  After all those great commercials this year in the National Hockey League, I've got to ask you, has dad decided who is favorite yet?   
 MARC STAAL:  I don't think so.  I don't think he'll let that one go.   
 That's a pretty funny commercial.  I enjoy watching it every time.   
  
  Q.  I'm with, of course, Marc Staal from the New York Rangers.  And Marc, do you talk to your brother as much during the course of the year?   
 MARC STAAL:  Yeah, we talk quite a bit.  It's nice that we're all in the same conference, so we see each other quite a bit, too.  Which is not really normal for me.  The last couple of years I hadn't seen him all year.  But now we getting to go for dinners and things like that.  We always talk.  If we're going through a bad stretch or a good stretch, we always see what's going on.   
  
  Q.  I know your focus last summer was making the New York Rangers and adding another Staal member of the family to the National Hockey League fraternity.  But did you ever think about being in the All-Star Game, the All-Star event weekend?   
 MARC STAAL:  Not really, no.  Obviously in the summer that was my goal, was to make the team.  To try to play as well as I can to be able to stay and contribute.  It's huge for me.  It's an incredible honor to be there with all these great players.  So it should be a lot of fun.   
  
  Q.  I know your teammate Brandon Dubinsky, who we were just talking to was wiping his brow with a sigh of relief because your hockey club won last night.  So everybody left for the All-Star break with a smile on their face?   
 MARC STAAL:  Yeah, we know we need to get a lot of big wins down the stretch.  We're starting to play a lot better lately.  Last night was a big win for us.  And hopefully carries on to after the break.   
  
  Q.  Oftentimes think about your brothers and them breaking into the National Hockey League.  But there is no tougher position outside of goal to break in to a team within this league than that of defense?   
 MARC STAAL:  Yeah, I think there's a lot to learn as a defenseman.  You know, the coaching and the players and the team have been really great with me this year and being patient.  It's kind of let me figure it out.  Every day I'm learning something new.  Hopefully I can just keep improving and be a better player.   
  
  Q.  Pushing all the pressure aside of a young player in the National Hockey League, and being a rookie and playing in New York, one of the major spotlights in the National Hockey League.  Are you having any fun?   
 MARC STAAL:  Oh, yeah.  Obviously playing in the NHL is a dream come true.  I'm loving it right now.  It's unbelievable.  Hopefully, our team can keep winning and getting a good role.  It will even be more fun.  Yeah, I'm really excited about it.  It's been a lot of fun so far.   
  
  Q.  Marc, enjoy yourself for the next few days in Atlanta, and thank you for being with us.   
 MARC STAAL:  Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT