BREEDERS' CUP WORLD THOROUGHBRED CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 2, 2012
Thierry Delegue
Mikel Delzangles
Christophe Lemaire
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   We're now joined by the winning trainer and jockey respectively of Flotilla, winner of the Breeders' Cup Juvenile Fillies Turf.   On the left, trainer, Mikel Delzangles and winning rider, Christophe Lemaire. 
    Congratulations, gentlemen.
    Mikel, one win for one start, you will look to make it 2 for 2 a little later on and only the first mount for Christophe Lemaire.   Well done.   If you would, introduce the gentleman on your right, Mikel.
    MIKEL DELZANGLES:   Thierry Delegue. 
    THE MODERATOR:   Very well, the two of you, the winning jockey and trainer in the Melbourne Cup, you're taking your global success here to North America, and you will be sending out Dunedin, our Monday night, and it must be unbelievable? 
    THIERRY DELEGUE:   It's a world tour, but when things happen like today it's quite easy. 

Q.   Christophe, this is the first time you've written Flotilla, she didn't have a clear run in the Marcel Boussac, and there appeared to be times where you needed to steady her.   Take us through the journey? 
    CHRISTOPHE LEMAIRE:   She can be a little tight during the race, so the first thing was to relax her may be in the middle of the field and she was still a little bit on the bridle because of the slow pace, but she was racing very well, so I was not worried in the last turn because I knew she would be able to react very well down the stretch. 

Q.   Thierry, obviously this is phenomenal for the two year old, any races that you would point her to next year? 
    THIERRY DELEGUE:   We will see with all the classics and the mile in Europe. 

Q.   I was wondering about the decision to send her here.   I know she has been on soft courses all the time was it your thought that she would like the firm going and the tight turns? 
    THIERRY DELEGUE:   Yes, I don't know if she would like the tight turns, but she is‑‑ the tight turns help her to relax and definitely she is more bred to go on fast ground and even on soft ground she did very good races in Europe.   But we felt she might be better on fast ground. 

Q.   You went over the length at Longchamp, coming to Santa Anita, was it a long‑term target, or was it a target after the race? 
    THIERRY DELEGUE:   No, I wouldn't say it was a long‑term target.   We were happy with our race in Longchamp, she was a little bit unlucky, but the way she won was quite impressive and she was keen on coming to America, so we decided we should have a try. 

Q.   Mikel, obviously you need good horses, but you have had a nice run in your first Breeders' Cup start.   Is this a journey you would like to make more frequently in the future? 
    MIKEL DELZANGLES:   Well, I would be always very happy to have a horse good enough to come to America to run in the Breeders' Cup, obviously. 

Q.   Mikel, you say she does well on fast ground, bearing in mind you have softer ground in the spring, does that men she is a contest constant for the possible 1,000 Guineas? 
    MIKEL DELZANGLES:   We'll see, if she race in France and if she doesn't in England, we will see what is the best for her. 

Q.   Christophe, turning for home looked like you had a lot of horse, you needed to find some room and it turned out that you went behind Watsdachances, one of the leaders in the race, was that a chance by you or do you remember? 
    CHRISTOPHE LEMAIRE:   You go where you can.   But I knew that the horse in front of me was a good chance and he was traveling very well so instead of going wide outside I just kept following this horse and he found his improve a little earlier than me. 
    But after that I had plenty of space on the outside to come and to let my filly stretch and use a big strike. 

Q.   Mikel, give us itinerary.   Are you going straight to Australia from here or somewhere in between? 
    THIERRY DELEGUE:   No, I'm going straight to Australia. 

Q.   Leaving tomorrow? 
    THIERRY DELEGUE:   Tonight. 

Q.   Christophe, you have been riding for the Aga Khan, the second year, how good is the partnership, what's going on and have you been doing well? 
    CHRISTOPHE LEMAIRE:   Of course it a great pleasure to ride for the prince.   He's got wonderful stable, wonderful horses.   It's a big challenge for me. 
    But in the meantime the prince knows very well the races and he can analyze very well the races, so we work in very good relationship and I can ride very confident because the prince has confidence to me so it's easier. 
    THE MODERATOR:   Terrific win by Flotilla, Mikel, Christophe, thank you.   Thierry, thank you very much for being with us.   Great job by you and Flotilla.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT