U.S. JUNIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 18, 2019
Kelly Chin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  (In progress.)  Unbelievable shot there.  
KELLY CHIN: Yeah, so I was about 118 out and breeze was kind of tricky.  So I just hit kind of like a just a butter 50-degree to about five feet.   
Putt was actually really tricky.  Just a huge left-to-right slider.  Just picked my line and just stayed in the moment and just put a good stroke on it.   
 Q.  How exciting is it to come from behind in a match like this?  
KELLY CHIN: It's tough.  You know, I fought really hard out there.  I mean, I birdied three of my last four holes to get to all square.  So it's tough mentally to just stay focused, knowing that, you know, you still got a shot.  Just hit good shots every time, so...   
 Q.  He had you 2-down a couple times.  How did you work your way back in mentally?  
KELLY CHIN: Just knowing that I've finished really strong before.  I've had a future [sic] of making a birdie run towards the end, especially from last year's U.S. Junior Amateur from the Meadows.   
So I just believed in myself and just kept hitting great shots, and hoping to keep it going, so...   
 Q.  You made back-to-back birdies at 10 and 11 to even it up.  Tell me about the back-to-back birdies at 15 and 16 that got the match tied.  
KELLY CHIN: So I think it was on 11 to 12; is that right?   
 Q.  10 and 11 the first time.  
KELLY CHIN: Oh, 10 and 11.  Yeah, so on 10 I just hit it to like five feet, just drilled my putt there.  Then 11, on 11 I hit to like seven feet and drilled my putt there.   
It was just good iron shots that allowed me to make some more birdies.   
 Q.  And then you went back up 2 and then you birdied 15 and 16.  How did that happen?  
KELLY CHIN: So my caddy and I were debating if we should lay up short of the bunkers or just take out driver and just pipe it down the middle.   
If I hit driver I would have, you know, easier wedge shot in.  Mentally I was like, All right, you got to go at it right now.  So took out driver and piped it down the middle.  I got wedge in on both looks and was able to stick it and make birdie there.   
 Q.  Then obviously last year you lost in the round of 32.  So to have a comeback this year and get to the quarterfinals, what's that mean to you?  
KELLY CHIN: Yeah, last year was definitely disappointing being the No. 1 seed and losing in the second round.  I was really hoping I could advance as far as I am now.  I'm really pumped to be able to get this far.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT