ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 9, 2015
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. A round of 66 --GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, always disappointing to finish with a couple bogeys but some good stuff today.  I drove the ball really well.  Some nice iron play.  The putter was pretty hot sort of the first 11 or 12 holes and cooled off a little coming in but the greens were perfect out there today, really, really great scoring conditions this morning.  Yeah, I'll take that.  I'd have take that going out and I'll take it now.  Like I said always disappointing to end with a couple but if they had been in the middle of the round somewhere I'd be pretty happy with that.Q. Last week you said you had too much going on in your mind technically, did that clear out today?GRAEME McDOWELL: Trying to get back to basics a bit.  Sat down and we looked at some swings from four or five years ago and tried to sort of simplify my thoughts a little bit and I've narrowed up my stance and just trying to use my body to swing the clubface back to how I always used to swing it.  I've been getting a little too obsessed with kind of clubfaces and all these things.  Simplified it down a little bit today and really hit the ball much more solid than I have for awhile. These putting surfaces are about as good as it gets.  They are a little perhaps, I'd call them medium pace.  You really can be aggressive when you're rolling at them and you see that one hit the back of the hole pretty hard.Q. Four birdies in a row --GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, I was feeling really good.  My iron play was solid and I was seeing the greens really well and my speed was decent.  Like I say, putter was spicy enough early in the round and disappointed to cool off at the end.  But really taking a lot of positives away from today and I'm not going to let that disappoint me. Talking with Kenny and my team, just talking about how hard my schedule has been the last few months, it's really nice to get on a golf course -- I don't want to call this golf course easy, because if the wind gets up this weekend it's going to be far from easy, but benign conditions this morning on a golf course where if you hit it in the fairway you have some great chances.  I just needed a few low numbers to get my belief and my confidence back, and today will go a long way for that.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT