WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 9, 2014
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  GRAEME McDOWELL:   To be brutally honest, I didn't have my AGame all week.   And to be in a situation I was in, leading all week, going into the last day, the golf course just got so difficult this weekend.   The pins were evil at times and you really had to be on your iron play to have a chance to access them and I didn't play well enough, simple as that. 
The putter that was so hot early in the week kind of cooled off this weekend, and of course, disappointing, but to finish T‑3 in this type of field, not playing my best, I have to count myself fairly fortunate. 
Of course I'd love to be going out in that playoff there.   Had a decent putt at the last, over‑read it a bit.   Disappointed but I'll look back generally as a solid week.

Q.   Always a game of resilience, but you've been battling over the weekend?
GRAEME McDOWELL:   Battling my golf swing.   I really didn't hit it very well Friday; okay yesterday.   Today was kind of ugly.   I had the rights going.   I couldn't stop it.   I was battling on my swing and my caddie and I stood at the back of the 15th green, 16 green, and said we are not playing well, we are battling here, but still in with a shout.   We have an opportunity here and we should embrace that opportunity and see what we can do. 
I played the last couple holes okay, gave myself opportunities, but it was just kind of‑‑ the game just wasn't good enough to compete this week in the end.   Like I say, lots of positives take away, to be competing, to be up there in the business end in this type of field not playing my best, that's always good.

Q.   Good in terms of other things, World Ranking points, Race to Dubai on the horizon?
GRAEME McDOWELL:   Yeah, some nice World Ranking points this week of course and Race to Dubai points which I dearly needed, lots of good things.   I love this tournament and HSBC do such a great job here.   Everyone enjoys coming here.   This is a golf course I know I can win around.   Just want to put it all together some year.
Like I say, I didn't play well this week.   I have to be brutally honest, I didn't play my best.   Like I say, I'll take it.   I'm disappointed.   To finish third in the style I did, I'm disappointed.   To finish third playing the way I did, I'm pretty happy. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT