WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 7, 2014
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   67, 67, well played.   How does the game feel?   The putter looks like it's your friend right now?  
GRAEME McDOWELL:   Yeah, the putter was fairly hot today, let's put it that way.   I didn't play as well today as I did yesterday.   Missed a lot more fairways, which is a big key on this golf course.   You must find fairways to have a chance out there.   Got lucky a couple times today, some good scrambles, some good saves.   
When I did have opportunities, like you said, my putter is in good form and the greens are fantastic here at Sheshan and I managed to make some.   But like I say, not my best ball‑striking round today but hung in and right where I want to be going into the weekend.  
   
 Q.   A really good record around here, what is it about this place that you love?   
GRAEME McDOWELL:   I don't know.   I think it's the fact you don't have to hit it a long way.   You have to be accurate.   And I like these greens.   As far as in and around the greens here, I love the way this golf course sets up.   I read the greens well here.   
I've always putted well here and you know, it's just got such a good feel to it.   HSBC do a nice job here, always get good support, good atmosphere and the golf course is always so well presented.   I enjoy playing it.   
   
 Q.   You haven't got a WGC event on the CV, as of yet, what would it mean?  
GRAEME McDOWELL:   The WGCs are a special tier of events, there's no doubt about that and this has always been one that I've kind of had my eyes on, this one and Doral are the two golf courses I feel that I perform well on.   
This is a world‑class field.   They are bunching up behind me.   I've got to just try and get out there tomorrow and keep the pedal down and position myself for Sunday, and give myself a sniff on the back nine.   That's all I can do, and like I say, world‑class players, just have to keep doing what I'm doing.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT