VOLVO WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
October 15, 2014
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Excellent 3 & 2 victory, what pleased you most about your play?   
GRAEME McDOWELL:   Probably the way I putted.   These greens are outstanding considering how much rain this golf course has taken.   The surface here at The London Club are as good as any you'll see.   Generally if you hit a good putt, it will go in.   
Generally happy with my driving accuracy.   This is a tight golf course at times.   You have to keep it in play.   The way I putted‑‑ Alexander obviously coming off the win last week, I wasn't taking him lightly.   Very good young player, very quality and just didn't make as many putts as I did.   Very important to win that first match this week.  
   
 Q.   You know better than most, it's a long week.   To get to the final, it's six matches in five days, how nice to get your work done so early in the day and get a chance to have some rest?   
GRAEME McDOWELL:   Very much so.   The fewer holes you can play, the better, as long as it's on the positive side for yourself.   This golf course, although they are giving us a few shuttle rides here and there, it's a good, long walking golf course physically.   
Not that we can complain too much from a physical point of view in the game of golf but it's going to be a long week, and hopefully I'll have a good reason to be nice and tired on Sunday evening.   
Like I say you just have to slowly, slowly build on the week and the first match is important and getting out of the group stages of course and then really hoping getting to Saturday and quarterfinals and then we get down to the nitty‑gritty.   
   
 Q.   Good start to the defense, saw that long putt on 15 and the fist pump, did that sum up the round for you?   
GRAEME McDOWELL:   15 was key.   Alex was just getting back into it.   I made the mistake on the par5, missing the flag from the middle of the fairway.   And he made a great swing on 14 and I thought here we go and two great shots to 15.   
So the putt on 15 was key for me just to keep that three‑up cushion with three holes to go and nice to kind of get the job done on 16.   There's no easy matches out here.   We always say it in match play, there's 16 quality players here this week and you really can't take anybody lightly, especially a guy coming off a victory last week.   He's a really good‑looking young player and you know, happy to get the victory.  
   
 Q.   Did that make it even more important that you were able to build up a good lead?  
GRAEME McDOWELL:   Yeah, you know, historically here the last couple years, my match‑play record, I have been getting off to slow starts and you don't want to put yourself in the hole against good players.   
So getting off to the key start today was big.   He missed a 15‑footer on two and I missed a great par save on 3 to keep me hanging in there and then I got going with the putter and I was able to build a little bit of a lead.  
   
 Q.   Your individual record in match play over the last couple of years has been second to none, 16 matches in 14 wins, what do you put that down to?  
GRAEME McDOWELL:   It's taken me a little while to find my match‑play edge professionally.   I used to play a lot of match‑play when I was an amateur.   I was always a good match player.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT