THE RYDER CUP
September 28, 2014
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  GRAEME McDOWELL: I was surprised when he said to me that earlier in the week.  I always saw myself, since 2010, as a guy who plays further down the order.  I've had all week to kind of get ready for it. I'm very proud and very honoured and I'm very excited about it.  It's a very no-confusion, no-frills role.  You go out there, you do your job and I'm right up for.   Q.  I'm sure you've been a bit disappointed not to play more than two matches, but you've only played 30 holes.  How big an advantage is that to be going out so fresh?  GRAEME McDOWELL: Unbelievably fresh this afternoon going out this afternoon, no doubt about that.  Yes, myself and Victor were a little disappointed not to play Saturday morning with our performance Friday afternoon. The captain had a master plan this week.  He's executed it really well.  We're in great shape going into the day.  The afternoon performances from us have spoke volumes about having fresh legs and having players ready and fired up and willing to play, and we've got ourselves in a great position.  Now we've just got to go put our foot down and try and do the job today.   Q.  You know better than anyone, because it happened last time for your, that the away team can win from 10-6.  How significant is the fact that we had the boost of Poulter's finish and they've come off a 3 1/2 to a 1/2 defeat in the foursomes?  GRAEME McDOWELL: No doubt.  I think momentum, Justin Rose's par on 18 last night, that half match was just a little icing on the cake for the 10-6 going into the locker room last night. The Americans went in with nothing.  We stole that last little piece of momentum.  We had the momentum most of the afternoon, after weathering the storm Saturday morning. The team was buzzing last night.  I don't think -- it was like you say very different attitudes from Medinah a few years ago when Poulter kind of sort of awakened something inside of us all.  They didn't that last night. We're very aware of what can happen today.  We're ready to go.  We've just got to execute  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT