THE RYDER CUP
September 28, 2014
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  GRAEME McDOWELL: Doesn't matter where you are on the golf course, 5-up, 5-down, try and win the next hole and try and send a signal to your teammates because the crowd really are amazing, and that's what it was all about and that's what kept me going the front nine holes. He missed that putt on 7 to go 4-up, that was a massive turning point for me mentally and I managed to -- something clicked.  I found my golf swing those last sort of 10 or 11 holes, and I needed it.  The guy is a quality, quality player and I'm so proud to get that point.   Q.  Having played only foursomes golf the first two days, did that putt you behind the 8-ball in the early stages?  GRAEME McDOWELL: Very much.  So I had not seen the ball going into the hole enough.  I had not hit enough irons.  I had not seen this golf course enough. Yes, I was fresh, but I nearly didn't have enough tournament play under my belt this weekend, and that's really kind of what happened to me.  That was why I came out of the gates so slow, and like I say, something clicked and I got it eventually.  I holed a couple of putts and I made a couple of decent swings and away I went, and I needed that really badly.   Q.  I've rarely seen you celebrate as hard as you did once you holed that putt there on 17.  GRAEME McDOWELL: This tournament does something to you.  It's very, very, very special and we are all very proud to wear the European shirt and play for each other, and the special bonds that you form in the team room this week, you play for each other and it's very special.  You don't want to let each other down and I think that's why you see emotion from players that you don't expect to see this week.   Q.  And the Fergie influence as a Manchester United fan?  GRAEME McDOWELL: Not as big as the influence as our captain, Paul McGinley.  He's done a phenomenal job this week.  I really hope this Ryder Cup gets lifted for him because he's done an amazing job.  To be going against a captain like Tom Watson with his kind of credentials, Paul McGinley has been a superstar in the team room.  But I'm a big Fergie fan, though, what can I say.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT