RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 26, 2014
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What kind of day did you have? 
GRAEME McDOWELL:   Yeah, I didn't putt very well today. Let's just put it that way. Got off to a slow start on the greens today. I missed a couple of good opportunities. Three‑putted the par‑3, the 5th, and I just kind of continued on that vibe unfortunately, because I hit the ball well, put it in fairways, gave myself some looks, but the putter just didn't comply today, and we'll just have to regroup and get back out there tomorrow.

Q.   Did you notice on the first tee when you were introduced, the crowd, the way they reacted?   You know you're very popular in Montreal.
GRAEME McDOWELL:   Yeah, good people. They're really giving me great support this week. I enjoyed playing with Mike Weir the last couple of days. You can hear the crowds behind me there as Graham DeLaet comes on to the green. It's a lot of fun to play here. The RBC Canadian Open is a really special tournament and one that we're really trying to work hard to take it to the next level and put it back on the map as one of the premier PGA TOUR events. It's good fans, good people up here, good golf courses, and the support is really appreciated.

Q.   What was the story of today?
GRAEME McDOWELL:   Yeah, the story was the greens basically. I got off to a slow start. I missed a short one on 1, short one on 2, three‑putted 5. I just couldn't get it going on the greens today. I felt like they were a little quicker than yesterday. I didn't adapt to that. And yeah, just one of those days where I lost my feel on the greens and couldn't get it back a little bit. So disappointing. Jim is obviously putting himself out there as the man to catch, and I could have done with picking up a few coming in there to get myself back in touch. Disappointing, but tomorrow I've got plenty to play for. Second, third place is still well within my reach, and like I say, I'll regroup and come back tomorrow ready to go.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT