RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 24, 2014
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   A pretty good day for Graeme McDowell, who was 1‑over on your first nine and then the fireworks started:   Birdie, eagle, birdie.   11 is a harder hole than you made it look today. 
GRAEME McDOWELL:   Yeah, Mike Weir and I were having a conversation walking to 11 tee box talking about how 11 is one of the stouter par‑4s on the golf course.   It's about 430 yards or whatever it is back into the wind today, and I hit my Sunday best drive and I hit a 3 hybrid that looked nice when it landed, and always nice to get that cheer.   That never gets old.

Q.   You seem to play very well on hard golf courses.   Does this one qualify?
GRAEME McDOWELL:   Yeah, this golf course has got a great mix.   I think there's half a dozen easy holes here, half a dozen kind of middle of the road, and there's half a dozen real stout holes here, a couple of tough par‑3s, three or four really tough par‑4s, so this golf course has got a bit of everything.   16 and 18 here especially are really, really great par‑4s, and like I say, I really well‑balanced golf course.

Q.   You've got a lot going on personally, expecting a baby.   Professionally you're trying to make that Ryder Cup team.   What do you do to make sure you focus on each individual shot here on a day like this?
GRAEME McDOWELL:   You know, my focus for the last three or four weeks has really been on the bigger picture this summer, really trying to view the summer as one big challenge and really kind of take the emphasis off the importance of each shot and try and make sure that I'm focused and ready for everything that I play this summer.   I've paced myself so far this year to allow myself to be on top form, top energy‑wise coming into the summer, and it seems to be paying off so far.   I've got to be honest, I hit the wall a bit coming into the last four holes.   It's kind of my bedtime in the UK right now.   Typically I'd shake off this type of jet lag, but coming off the back of The Open Championship last week, it's been a tiring week. 

Q.   Talk about your round.   You must be happy with it. 
GRAEME McDOWELL:   Yeah, I am happy with that.   I got a little tired coming in I have to say.

Q.   It's normal. 
GRAEME McDOWELL:   Yeah, it's kind of bedtime in the UK for me right now, so last three or four holes I put some horrible swings on, but you know what, I'm 2‑under par, I'd have taken that kind of walking off the 9th green.   I thought it was tricky conditions this afternoon.   I thought the wind was gusting.   I thought the greens kind of scuffed up a little bit.   It's that type of grass.   It's that kind of matted type grass.   I think we'll get some really pure surfaces in the morning, so getting a couple under on the back and getting back out there tomorrow morning on some good greens, I'm pretty happy with that. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
GRAEME McDOWELL:   Yeah, I was pretty pleased with that even though I made a few ugly looking swings coming in.   It was my bedtime in the UK about an hour ago, and I swung the club like a tired man coming in.   Typically I'd shake this type of jet lag off a little quicker than I have this week, but I think coming off the Open Championship last week, I'm a little bit more tired than normal and really, really happy to get to the house today at a couple under par. 
I thought conditions were difficult this afternoon.   I thought the wind was gusting.   The greens were not maybe quite as pure as they were this morning.   They had a tendency to scuff up a little bit.   2‑under par is a good effort.   Looking forward to getting back out there on some good greens tomorrow morning.

Q.   They had some tough pin placements out there, as well. 
GRAEME McDOWELL:   Yeah, I think this golf course is a real good test of golf.   It's really balanced.   It's got six very difficult holes, three or four par‑4s, a couple par‑3s, six medium, and six kind of scorable holes.   It's a good, balanced golf course.   Really enjoy it.   Good crowds today.   Obviously playing with Mike Weir, good atmosphere, and looking forward to getting back out in the morning. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT