THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2014
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Lovely round today?  GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, good -- better stuff today.  Yeah, I hit the ball much better again yesterday, and continued that today. Got off to a slow start.  The first three or four holes were very wet and nasty.  I missed a short one on the first and bogeyed the second, kind of got off to a slow one.  And kind of went at the flag on 8 and plugged it in the bunker, and made the turn at 1-over again. Back nine has been kind to me the last two days.  Back at 5-under, the back nine.  Much more benign conditions.  The decision to play two tees kind of looks a little interesting now as the sun might be cracking the flags this afternoon, and there will be no one on the golf course, so that could be interesting.  Better to be safe than sorry, as well.  And easy conditions out there from the point of view of scoring.   Q.  What's possible for you tomorrow now?  GRAEME McDOWELL: It gives me a good shot at something tomorrow.  What am I, 5-under?  Not expecting sort of the lead to be coming back in my direction in any shape or form.  I mean, the back nine is playing very easy, three par 5s.  I expect the leaders to do some scoring.  So just a solid top 10, top five, maybe, with a good score tomorrow.  That's really all I can kind of hope for from here.  Just another low number.  Post something decent and take some good confidence from the last couple of days.   Q.  Is it the case of what might have been that little period in the first round when you hit the spectator and you had a bad bounce on the 10th and things went awry.  Is it a case of what might have been?  GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, I worked a couple things out between rounds 1 and 2.  Like you said, if I could have steadied the ship and shot a couple under on Thursday, I could have been there or thereabouts today.  But Rory's two 66s would've been tough to live the first two days.  But there's no doubt I'm ruing on Thursday, in probably the easiest conditions that we've seen so far this week. So, yeah, but, you know, can only look forward.  Look forward to getting back there tomorrow and seeing what we can do.   Q.  You said "interesting" in regards to the weather conditions.  Were you disappointed to hear that there was a two-tee start?  GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, I think I was.  Getting out a few hours in front of the leaders, a couple of hours in front of the leaders can often be an advantage if the wind was to get up.  As it's turned out really, it's probably not going to make that much difference.  I think the leaders would have gotten slightly more benign condition than the morning guys.  What time is it, 2:00?  The leaders wouldn't even be off and it's literally the best part of the day right now. In the end it's not going to matter that much, I don't think.  But conditions normally, you might get a little wind in the afternoon puffing up and get out there and the morning and try and post a number, but didn't really get that opportunity today.  Didn't matter much.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT