WGC CADILLAC CHAMPIONSHIP
March 9, 2014
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  GRAEME McDOWELL:   I didn't really have my AGame this weekend.   I guess I should be proud of myself to be competing in WGCs without playing my best. 
So I enjoyed the experience.   It's been great this weekend.   A lot of fun to be on the big stage on a golf course as difficult as this.   Go to Bay Hill in two weeks' time, another tough golf course like this one, and I feel happy where I'm at.   I've got a lot of work to do on things, but it's all ticking along nicely.
Yeah, disappointed, bogey, bogey, it's always going to leave a sour taste in your mouth, but over a 72‑hole event stretch, probably the best I've played all week was in the wind on Friday.   I didn't hit it great yesterday.   I'm a little off my game today again, and this golf course will do it to you, because it gets you a little defensive. 
I didn't quite‑‑ I didn't feel like I was playing well enough to take this golf course on very much, so I had to lay it back and play to my strengths a little bit. 
I putted well.   Putter just kind of abandoned me coming in there.   I hit a lot of edges coming in.   But stuff happens, we'll move on, generally happy the way I'm playing.   Like I say, to be competing at this level and not playing my best is a very positive thing.   So I'm very happy. 

Q.   No complaints about the golf course?
GRAEME McDOWELL:   No.   It was great.   I'd like to see more setups like this on the PGA TOUR in general.   This is my type of golf.   This is U.S. Open, British Open golf.   Bay Hill will be just like this; so this is me type of golf.   I'm not going to complain at all about the setup.   I quite enjoyed it.

Q.   Happy the way your game is at the moment heading into the Masters? 
GRAEME McDOWELL:   It's definitely a step in the right direction.   With the new Srixon driver, a step in the right direction, not perfect yet but getting there.   Driving the ball is the key to me playing well at Augusta.   So I've got my chipping and putting where I want it to be.   I've just got to get my driver in the fairway and go from there really.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT