AT&T PEBBLE BEACH NATIONAL PRO-AM
February 9, 2014
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   So, had a really nice round out there.   5‑under.   Can you describe how your round went?  
GRAEME MCDOWELL:   Yeah, it's been a fun week, obviously being here with my dad and stuff.   I played pretty well Thursday, Friday, Saturday, and just really made nothing on the greens.   And today the putter got a little hot.   So, it was nice to kind of come back here and play as well as I have, sort of today and post some sort of a decent finish after eight weeks off.  
So, really pleasing.   Some good stuff.   Some good stuff to work on here on my week off and just a pleasing way to finish the week.   A dream week, really, like I say, having the chance to be out here and play with my dad in this tournament, it's a dream come true for everyone.  
  
 Q.   Are there a couple key holes in particular that kind of got your round going?  
GRAEME MCDOWELL:   I missed a short one on 11, which is my second hole and I made a great birdie on 12.  
I birdied 12, 13, and 14, really, which sort of kick started the day.  
And sort of a careless bogey on 18.   I drove it right and caught a really bad lie in the right rough and didn't make my five there.   But I steadied the ship with birdies on 2 and 3 and some solid golf.  
Like I say, the putter behaved itself a little bit more today and I started to see a few more going in.  
  
 Q.   And describe your week, I mean just being here for the entire week out at Pebble Beach.  
GRAEME MCDOWELL:   Fun.   We have had some good people looking after us this week.   Played Cyprus Point for the first time.   A good friend of mine, Jerry Murray, hosted us over there and gave us one of his homes here at Pebble for the week.   And we had the whole family over, and just really had a fun week, and some good golf got in the way, as well.  
So, it was just one of those weeks.   My expectation levels were quite low and I was coming here just to have a good time and just enjoy myself and see where my game was at for the year.   And I managed to squeeze a good round out of it in the end and very happy with that, with the effort.  
  
 Q.   Tied for the low round of the day, so congratulations.  
GRAEME MCDOWELL:   Thank you.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT