DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 16, 2013
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Excuse me for being blunt.   Are you still in the race?   
GRAEME McDOWELL:   I think you could you call me‑‑ there's still a pulse there, barely.   I'm going to need something pretty special tomorrow.   
Henrik Stenson obviously in control of his own destiny right now and playing from what I hear, incredible golf.   Hats off to him the way he's came here‑‑ the way he went to Turkey last week, performed; and even going back to the weekend at the HSBC the way he performed; and just coming here and playing the way he's playing, can't argue with that.   
I've hung tough.   I haven't played my best the last three days but I've really hung tough and proud of myself the way I've done that.   
But yeah, I'm still alive and kicking and looking forward to tomorrow.   I'm going to need something special and I'm going to go out tomorrow and play aggressive.  
   
 Q.   What's your story over the last couple of days?   What's worked, has your fondness for the course changed?   
GRAEME McDOWELL:   You know, everything's been average.   I've driven the ball okay.   My iron play has been okay.   You know, cleaned it up better around the greens as the week has gone on.   I've putted probably the best I've ever putted here at the Earth Course in my four or five years here.   
Like I say, happy the way I've hung tough, considering I haven't played my best but the scoring's great, and I'm just kind of on the fringe of being in the tournament and just not quite there.   But perhaps there's a low one in me tomorrow.   
But no disappointment.   If it doesn't happen tomorrow, I'm looking forward to the World Cup next week.   And if it doesn't happen in the World Cup, I'm looking forward to the end of the season and coming back out next year, because I feel like I've made some big steps forward the last couple months and my game is in good shape.   Just trying to enjoy my golf right now.  
   
 Q.   You said perhaps; can you see a low one in you?   
GRAEME McDOWELL:   For sure, no doubt about it.   I got off to a great start todays are first six holes, burning edges, lipping out.   I just couldn't get the ball in the hole.   
I made one bad swing on the 7th, which kind of threw me off my kilter for a few holes and steadied the ship a little bit.   I played the back nine very well this week.   I'm three and 4‑under par for the back nine this week.   I just need to go out and play the front nine 3‑ or 4‑under par and then I can shoot a low one from there.  
   
 Q.   Was there a little bit of frustration that every time you seemed to get momentum that, it would slip away a little bit?   
GRAEME McDOWELL:   I think that frustrates you any week, not necessarily just this week.   But yeah, that front nine today, I was on the cusp of really getting off to a fast start.   Hit it close on 1, missed it.   Birdied 2, burned the edge on 3, lipout four, lipout 5.   Had it right in the middle on 6.   Middle of the fairway on 7 on the par5 and hit a terrible lay‑up.   From there, I kind of lost my way for a few holes.  
Yeah, it's frustrating that I've probably never did much better than 68 I think around this golf course.   I need to do it tomorrow though.   Worst‑case scenario, I need to try to catch Poulter.   That's the least thing I need to do tomorrow.  
The front nine is the key to my challenge tomorrow.   I've played the back nine fantastic every day.   The front nine has eluded me so far.   Level par today, after opening up with 6 1/2 holes of the best golf I've played this week, and you know, it's just not good enough.   I've got the back nine nailed.   I just haven't got the front nine worked out yet.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT