DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 15, 2013
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  GRAEME McDOWELL:   Played a little bit better all around today, just a little cleaner, a little tidier.   You know, seeing the greens better this year than I have in the past, making a few putts.   I wouldn't say it was my best tee‑to‑green performance that I've ever put in here at the Earth Course, but just tidy, cleaned it up well.   
Made a couple of key putts, great up‑and‑down on 10 and a great up‑and‑down on 12 which sort of kept me hanging in there and pleased with that.   Sort of one foot back in the building if you like and back in it here for the weekend, so all to play for.  
   
 Q.   Still hanging in there as far as The Race is concerned?   
GRAEME McDOWELL:   Yeah, absolutely.   I see Henrik 7 there and Ian is 5 and guys like that, but hopefully they will not get too far in front of me.   I'm going to have to play two great rounds from here to have a chance.   
But starting to see a way around this course.   Happy enough the way the game is.   It needs a little sharpening up, but the key thing is that I'm rolling the ball well on greens, and some low scores out there.   We saw this morning, Ross Fisher, Luke playing well, Miguel playing well.   So there are low scores to be had on this golf course, and I'll need a couple of them this weekend.  
   
 Q.   One other thing I wanted to ask you about.   Ted Bishop from The PGA of America was on the Golf Channel yesterday, and suggested that the first international PGA Championship, an excellent host course would be Royal Portrush.   What do you make of that?   
GRAEME McDOWELL:   Yeah, I did read that on the instantaneous media outlet that is Twitter.   Interesting.   I had heard that the PGA, US PGA Championship was looking to go global, which I think is a very positive step forward.   I think they have three major championships in America, with the global nature of the game nowadays, is a little too heavy‑weighted.   
Royal Portrush, it's always been a dream of mine to play The Open Championship there.   The US PGA would do nicely.  
   
 Q.   Bet you never dreamt of playing the US PGA there, though?  
GRAEME McDOWELL:   No, I didn't.   That's very bizarre, a very amazing statement.   I was expecting it to be Asia.   I wasn't expecting it to be the north coast of Ireland.   But exciting, exciting times.   If it never comes to fruition, you know, it's still a great boost for everyone in that area just to be mentioned in that breath.   Like I say, on a positive side of things, I think the PGA Championship going global I think is great for the game of golf.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT