WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 3, 2013
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  GRAEME McDOWELL:   Would he be better off taking the week off next week?   Who knows.   I'll be interested to see how he does next week.   
I'll be fresh.   I'll be ready in Dubai whatever happens, and you know, like I say, just trying to give myself a shot going into Dubai.   Proud of the way I played this week.   A little bit of work needed on the flat stick.   I can put better than I putted this week for sure.  
Standard of golf, it was quality out there.   
   
 Q.   He was 5‑under for five holes from the 13th.   
GRAEME McDOWELL:   Dustin was?   Yeah, his birdie, the putt on the par5 was massive.   Did he birdie the hole before that?   He did.   That just sums his game up.   13 to me kind of personifies Dustin Johnson.   He trenches one 350 down the middle and has the hands to hit that 70‑yard shot to the front pin and make the putt.   He's just a quality, talented, very athletic classy player.   
Yeah, he makes mistakes, but when you've got a game as good as him, you can get away with a few mistakes, like the double on 18 last night.   And to be honest with you, he kept the ball in play today.   He drove it phenomenal.   He's just got a great wedge game to go with just an outrageously good driving game.  
   
 Q.   I'm sorry, are you skipping next week for any other reason besides rest?   I know you just got married but‑‑  
GRAEME McDOWELL:   It's not so much rest but I don't want to be on the road for five weeks, because I'm going to play World Cup the week after Dubai.   
So it's really, I don't‑‑ I just don't want to be away from the wife and from the family for five weeks, you know.   It's just a tough time of the year.   I've done the last six, seven weeks on the spin stuff and just trying to be sensible.   Want to be fresh going into Dubai.   A few reasons really, but you know, I don't need to rest; I just had five weeks off.   I don't want to spend that long on the road.   
   
 Q.   Your thoughts on the way the week has panned out in the end?   
GRAEME McDOWELL:   Yeah, you know, obviously a pang of disappointment, but generally just very proud of myself the way I played this week tee‑to‑green, especially.   On the greens, room for improvement.   
But I didn't make a bogey all weekend.   I shot 14‑under on the weekend.   Hit the ball really quality.   Chasing some great players.   Dustin Johnson was in a different league off the tee and gave us a little bit of a sniff and then promptly slammed the door, so a lot of fun, really enjoyed it.  
   
 Q.   Shows the stature and standing and drama; all three in the last group shooting 66?  
GRAEME McDOWELL:   It was a lot of fun.   Bizarrely we all missed those putts on the last.   But there was a spell there where it was really just quality golf from about the 12th hole onwards and the way Dustin played 15, 16, 17, especially, he's just a quality player, very talented.   We know how good he is.   You know, just very impressed with the way he finished that off today.   
But like I say, happy from a Race to Dubai point of view, the way I played this week, cuts into Henrik's lead a little bit.   As long as Henrik doesn't do anything too unsensible next week in Turkey, I'll have a good shot going into Dubai.  
   
 Q.   You've improved, Ian Poulter has, Justin Rose has; bodes well?   
GRAEME McDOWELL:   It bodes well for the tournament.   You know, this is what we want going into The Race to Dubai.   This is what the Dubai World Championship is all about, having quality players with a chance to win, not only the tournament, but the Money List and The Race to Dubai for the year.   
So you know, just happy to have another opportunity to do that.   Jumeirah Estates Golf Course is one that I've slowly crept up on the last few years I feel like and looking forward to getting back there.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT