BMW MASTERS PRESENTED BY SRE GROUP
October 24, 2013
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  GRAEME McDOWELL:   Pretty happy, five weeks off, coming in here and not really sure on what to expect.   You know, hit it a little bit better in practice than I was expecting and today was a really tough day. 
It was just a real case of hanging in there as much as possible, very, very tough conditions.   Greens firm and fast, and windy, windy conditions and pretty happy with that to be honest. 

Q.   I know the leader has done something outlandish but yours is a very nice score in the conditions, isn't it? 
GRAEME McDOWELL:   Yeah, leader is 7‑under, level par is 14th; that kind of sums it up really.   Luke Guthrie is obviously a hell of a player.   I don't know a lot about him except that he's good.   And that was a great performance this morning from him. 
You know, another windy day ahead tomorrow, so just a case of trying to jockey for position, and the weekend looks set up a little bit more fair.   So really just trying not to shoot yourself out of it right now, stay in the mix, and like I say, very happy with that effort today.

Q.   Talk us through the eagle. 
GRAEME McDOWELL:   Yeah, the eagle was nice.   It was just one of those, kind of a bit of a bonus, really.   I knew I didn't want to hit it sort of long right there on my second shot, and I kind of held my 3‑wood up a little too much, and just crawled on to the front right edge.   Well, the putt was a good putt, but it wasn't‑‑ it was very fortunate to go in.   It was probably going to be six to eight feet by, and you know, it was a nice little bonus, shall we say. 

Q.   Can I ask about The Final Series, what is your take to this nice end of The European Tour season?
GRAEME McDOWELL:   Yeah, it's great.   These two events in Shanghai here have gone from strength‑to‑strength the last four or five years, and BMW have done a fantastic job here at Lake Malaren.
We have such a great run of events, and you know, nice to be coming back off of a five‑week break, coming in second to The Race to Dubai, great stuff to play for.   You know, just excited to be back here.   Like I say, this is a great event.   HSBC next week, AND I'm going to give Turkey a miss and I'm going to be fresh for The Race to Dubai.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT