PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 8, 2013
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   That was steady stuff. 
GRAEME McDOWELL:   Yeah, hit a lot of fairways, a lot of greens, which is what you're supposed to do on this golf course.   My pace was a little off down the first ten or 11 holes, a bit heavy‑handed on the greens.   Not sure if I just kind of subconsciously thought with the rain overnight they would be a lot slower.   But they putted well this morning, the greens.   I didn't make a lot of putts, unfortunately, but I was very happy with my general ball‑striking.
Like I say, hit about 15 greens, probably made my three worst iron swings of the day coming in there middle of the fairway on 7, 5‑iron, missed it dead right, exactly what you're not supposed to do.
Yeah, really happy with that start.   Some good scores out there this morning.   I mean, you'll not get this golf course any more straightforward than it was this morning:   Barely a draft of wind, receptive greens.   I'm not going to say it was there for the taking but it was a good score out there.

Q.   The scoring has been very good, very premature obviously, but a few whispers that it's been set up a little bit too easily. 
GRAEME McDOWELL:   Like I say, benign conditions this morning.   This golf course gives you a bit of room to hit good shots into the fairway, and if you do hit the fairway‑‑ receptive greens; the pins weren't brutal today.   There were a few accessible pin positions.   This golf course can easily be protected with pins.   I hope they don't go too hard on the course today, because we might see a few evil ones tomorrow, but like I say, they can soon tuck these pins away and make this a difficult test. 
A bit of rain overnight softened the greens and guys were able to take it on a little bit.   It firmed up a little bit yesterday but back to being receptive again today. 

Q.   You said you were swinging as well as you have for awhile coming into this week, and you had your four practice rounds, for want of putting it a better way coming in here at Bridgestone; did you feel confident coming in here today? 
GRAEME McDOWELL:   I executed correctly today.   I hit it very well, sort of in practice hit it well at the weekend in Firestone.   Hit a lot of good shots and a lot of quality iron shots today.   Attacked my targets well.   Hit the ball in the correct places.   Putted well; actually putted better than maybe my results showed.   Like I say, blew it through a few lines on the first few holes, but hit it very solid and very happy with the way I executed my game plan today. 

Q.   Do you expect it and do you want it to be tougher the next few days? 
GRAEME McDOWELL:   I expect it to be tougher.   This rough is getting nothing but thicker.   I know they cut it for the last time yesterday, so it's going to get thicker and thicker as the week goes on, more premium on fairways.   Pins will only get tougher.   You know, let's hope we don't get too much rain.   I'd like to see this course firm up just a tad, and just keep everyone honest a little bit.   But it's a good test of golf. 

Q.   Talk about that rough, you came in for a practice round and Tweeted out a picture‑‑ do you think it's that length still? 
GRAEME McDOWELL:   They let it grow, and then they seemed to, funnily enough, the morning after I Tweeted that photo, they were out cutting it.   So they sort of let it come up and then they just sort of take‑‑ they trimmed the top off it to make it more uniform and stand up a little bit and I know they did it for the last time yesterday.   So looking at this place getting pretty wiry as the week goes on. 
Like I say, if the place firms up a little bit, this will be quite a test as the weekend goes on, but very enjoyable. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT