RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 26, 2013
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Is it my imagination or as the round wore on were the conditions starting to‑‑ were you starting to notice it changing out there?
GRAEME McDOWELL:   Well, yesterday afternoon was quite tricky.   If you look at the dispersion in scoring yesterday I think it was pretty significant from morning until afternoon.   When I got here mid‑morning yesterday I looked at the scoring and there were guys 5‑, 6‑ and 7‑under par through 12 or 13 holes, and I thought, all right, great, score‑fest and let's go out and have some fun. 
We got out on the golf course in the afternoon and it was tricky.   I think this golf courses changes significantly as the day goes on.   The rough is quite moist and wet in the morning with a bit of dew and it and it plays a little easier around the greens.   As it gets kind of drier and stickier as the afternoon goes on, playing out of that rough becomes a little tougher, the greens get a little bit more growth on them, a bit more seed in that poa annua and they're tougher to putt. 
So this morning's conditions were significantly easier than the afternoon yesterday, and it seems like the conditions are going to be similar.   It might balance out now.

Q.   Were you noticing during your morning round that it was starting to change out there?
GRAEME McDOWELL:   I mean, it was pretty calm early doors this morning when we got out there.   It was beautiful scoring conditions.   That breeze wake up through about seven or eight holes of our round, and it was a tough pick out there, the wind coming in.   It's supposed to be an easterly going into a southeasterly, and it was kind of moving around a little bit.   So tricky finish in the wind, but all in all, very, very happy with my effort today after a disappointing 76 yesterday. 

Q.   You talked about it being fun when you saw it; it looked like it was going to be a birdie‑fest.   How much fun was it today for you to get out there and put some red numbers up?
GRAEME McDOWELL:   Yeah, it's fun.   When you play a tough schedule like I have the past few months, tournaments like THE PLAYERS Championship to Wentworth to the U.S. Open to the French Open to the British Open, tough golf courses, tough golf courses that don't give up many 6‑, 7‑, 8‑under pars, so it was a lot of fun to be 8‑under par at some point out there this morning so early, and just enjoying kind of the going low.   You lose that art form when you are playing tough golf courses, and nice to kind of get the birdie juices flowing and make some putts and make some eagles and have a little fun. 
I was happy to be here for the weekend.   I'm one of RBC's ambassadors.   I didn't really want to be missing the cut.   I've had great support from the fans, and I'm looking forward to two more rounds. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT