THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 21, 2013
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Tell us your thoughts on what looked to be a pretty
frustrating, disappointing day.
GRAEME MCDOWELL:  The same as yesterday.  Got off to a
real slow start.  I was kind of chasing after that little bit.
And just a combination this week really of not hitting it great,
not putting great.  And around a golf course like this you've got
to be on your game.  It was kind of one of those weeks.  Sort of
Thursday, Friday, Saturday were there or thereabouts, each day I
walked off could have been a few better every day.  It slowly
wears you down this place.  And got kind of impatient after my
start today and just one of those things, really.
Q.  Just how tough is it playing out there?
GRAEME MCDOWELL:  You know, it's funny, because after
Thursday afternoon the greens have not had the same sting to them
at all.  There's no doubt that they got away from them a little
bit on Thursday afternoon.  I putted okay Thursday, to be honest.
And since then my speed's been awful.  I barely haven't got a putt
on the hole.  I scared myself a little Thursday afternoon and ever
since then I've been putting a little tentatively.  So didn't make
much.
But it is very difficult.  The ball is going incredible
distances, 235 yard 7-irons and into 14.  A gap wedge from 175
into 15.  It's very difficult, there's a few tough pins coming in.
16 is a tough one.  14 is tough.
I'm certainly going to be watching with great interest
this afternoon.  I'm disappointed not to have contended this
weekend, but like I say, my game was just a bit off in most
departments.  I got a little bit of a left going on, which I need
to eradicate from my game.  When I'm playing well, I don't hit the
ball left.  But at the minute I'm hitting the ball left.  I've got
to do something about that.
Q.  Are you looking forward to your busy second half of your
season?
GRAEME MCDOWELL:  Yes, I have to remember I won two weeks
ago.  I'm not too disappointed with myself.  Of course I'd like to
have got a Poulteresque round going out there today, shoot 2, 3,
4-under par, but a tough golf course.  Very difficult to get the
ball close to the hole.  That kind of wears you down.  You've got
to play with a huge amount of patience.  You've got to putt well.
I didn't putt well.  And it was disappointing in the end.  A huge
month to look forward today.  I'm going to Canada for the RBC
Canadian Open next week and the Firestone PGA, and the FedEx
playoffs.  And then I might get married.  I've got a pretty busy
seven or eight weeks coming up.  I'm looking forward to them.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
GRAEME MCDOWELL:  Hindsight is 20/20, isn't it?  Listen,
I wish I had done a lot of things differently coming into this
week now.  But that's just the way it is.  You're dammed if you
do, dammed if you don't sometimes.  I was very happy with my prep
coming into here, winning the French.  Spent time here last week.
Would I have played better this week if I hadn't played the
Scottish Open?   Who knows?  I might have missed the cut.  So no
idea.  I'm happy with my schedule.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
GRAEME MCDOWELL:  I can't play them all.  Unfortunately
Castle Stuart was the one that got the chop, for no other reason,
apart from scheduling, really.
Q.  Is there a chance you'll be at Royal Aberdeen next year?
GRAEME MCDOWELL:  Very possibly.  But I'm going to run
into a scheduling issue, you know, U.S. Open, followed by the BMW
Munich, Irish Open, French Open, Scottish Open, British Open.  So
it's a very busy time of the year.  No doubt Royal Aberdeen is a
golf course that interests me a lot and could be fantastic prep
for the British Open.
Q.  Can you speak a little bit about what they're facing up
to, the back nine and what it's like to win a Major?
GRAEME MCDOWELL:  For sure, I think the British summer --
one of them going to win for sure.  It's been an outstanding
summer sport.  Both of them are exceptionally good golfers, good
people.  And they'll be great champions.  Like I say, I'll be
watching with interest.  They've got a very tough, arduous sort of
10 or 11 holes coming up, requiring a lot of patience and a lot of
good golf.  Obviously Lee does.  I just saw Ian bogeyed 16.  He
needs to birdie 17, which is very possible, and par the last.  I
think even par really could be a good number to post.  He wouldn't
want to be getting in his car and getting out of here if he shoots
even par.
Q.  What would you advice be to one of them (inaudible.)
GRAEME MCDOWELL:  Enjoy it, you know.  Tell me what it's
like to sip something out of the Claret Jug.  Just enjoy it and
it's busy, but it's great busy.  Adam Scott knows all about it the
last few months.  It's great stuff.
There will be a tinge of jealousy, for sure, but that's
sport, isn't it?  I wish them all the best.  It will be a great
afternoon sport.  And continuing an amazing British summer sport.
Q.  You'd tell them not to change, do anything different
(inaudible.)
GRAEME MCDOWELL:  I think, you know, in this game at the
high level it's tempting not to want to try to get better and
better all the time.  And with that can be pitfalls there, you
know, by trying to change things.  We've seen great players come
and go, and great players try to change things.  Speaking to David
Duval on the range, he's trying to get back to swinging it way he
was in the late '90s or early 2000s.  He swung a bit like me with
and he wanted to come watch me hit balls, because he wanted to get
himself back to where he was.
It really resonated with me because you hear a guy like
that, who was the No. 1 player in the world, and won The Open
Championship in great style at Lytham, the guy was awesome.  In an
attempt to try to get better, he made himself worse.
It's a funny old game.  It's a hard game.  And you've got
to really just believe and stick to the things that have got you
there in the first place, you know.
Q.  I think you said in Bulgaria that it took you a while to
get used to the feeling that you deserved it.  (Inaudible.)
GRAEME MCDOWELL:  Bunkers are tough this week, like I
said yesterday.  I'm not going to stand here and do anymore
complaining, though.  Like I say, it wasn't a complaint, it was an
observation.  The bunkers, they're a different type of penal.
They're not St. Andrews or Carnoustie penal, they're a very
different penal.  The sand is quite soft and there's quite a lot
of it and it's quite difficult.
A player like Lee, who's been there and done it and maybe
should have won one by now, it might not take him as long to a
acclimatize to that kind of -- as being a Major champion.  It took
me a little while, because it maybe happened quicker than I
expected.  And maybe it took me by surprise little bit.  It took
me a little bit of time to deal with it.  Let's be honest, it's a
great problem to have.
Q.  It's only ten days to the start of the next Major.
GRAEME MCDOWELL:  Yeah, you're right.  It's scary.
Q.  And the national championship you're going to play in
Canada, is that too much high-quality golf to expect guys to play
at that high quality level for that long?
GRAEME MCDOWELL:  It's a busy old summer, you know.  It's
the result of playing both turfs, you know, and that's my own
creation.  I don't have to play the PGA Tour, if I don't want to.
I guess, I don't have to play the European Tour, if I don't want
to.  But I want to play Ryder Cups and I want to play on the PGA
Tour or FedEx playoffs.  I want to play the best events globally.
It's a lot of golf.  Gets back to my comment with the
Scottish Open.  It's scheduling suicide for me to play last week.
I've got to pace myself next week.  The Canadian Open, it's a
corporate commitment.  I'm an RBC ambassador, and I'm playing
there.  And as part of that deal, you know.  It's not ideal from a
scheduling point of view.  But it gets me over to that side of the
pond and I'm looking forward to it.  Preparing well for the U.S.
PGA and it's supposed to be a great course and great event.
There's a lot of elements involved in scheduling, and
it's a very important thing to get right.
Q.  Could you see the PGA being moved to October after the
FedEx?
GRAEME MCDOWELL:  That would be kind of cool to spread
them out.  They come thick and fast, once the U.S. Open hits, it's
amazing how golf season feels like it kind of disappears.  Once
the U.S. PGA is over you're really starting to wind down.










END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT