THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 18, 2013
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Give us your thoughts on what seemed to be a bit of a
frustrating day for you?
GRAEME MCDOWELL:  Yeah, it was obviously a very tricky
day.  The greens were very slick and very tough to putt.
You know, I hung in there most of the day.  Two clumsy
doubles, double on 9 and then the double on 15 was particularly
frustrating.  I only missed that fairway by a yard.  My layup,
kind of got a shoot from the fairway, and ends up in the trap and
I missed a short one there.  I missed two short ones there.
I hung in really well with a putter most of the day.
Didn't swing the club well coming in, to be honest.  A bit
frustrating.  Very, very difficult conditions and really tough to
get the ball close to the pins out there.  And just didn't get the
job done, unfortunately.  But get back out there in the morning
and hopefully conditions will be slightly more scorable.
Q.  Are the pins fair?
GRAEME MCDOWELL:  Yeah, they're fair.  They just get so
glassy and crispy around the holes.  That's the only way you can
describe it.  You literally can see 300 footprints around the hole
from all the players and caddies and whatnot that have been out
there today.  They just get really shiny and really glassy.  And
the surfaces are fine.
You know, I couldn't single out a pin that I thought was
unfair.  But if you got on the wrong side of them, they could make
you look very, very silly.  That was kind of the only way to
describe them.
Q.  An earlier start for you tomorrow, hopefully better
conditions, better scoring, better for you?
GRAEME MCDOWELL:  Yeah.  I'll get back out there in the
morning.  I've got a couple of things to iron out with the golf
swing before I get out there in the morning.  Did the hard parts
well today.  Pace-putted very well.  Controlled my flight mostly.
I just kind of missed 9 fairway left; compounded the error by not
getting it back into play.  Missed 15 fairway; compounded the
error by not getting it back in play.
Unfortunately when you get in trouble around this being
golf course, you've got to take your medicine.  I tried to take my
medicine, but the fairways are so fiery that it's very difficult
to control your yardages, you know.  And I ran up against the
collar of the rough on 9 with my second shot, and left myself a
really tough third shot which I blew right and made double from
there.  Like I said, 15 got away with me, and I ended up in the
trap and a bad swing off the last tee box there.
But all in all, I feel like it's there where I can go and
shoot a score this the morning.  The greens were very tough this
afternoon.  They kept you honest.  Tiger played phenomenally well
for his 2-under par.  Really ground out well, did what he did
best.  And I tried to hang in there and threw a couple away coming
in.  But we'll be back at it in the morning.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
GRAEME MCDOWELL:  Just wait until they see them tomorrow
afternoon.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
GRAEME MCDOWELL:  Yeah, I mean, I think most of the
afternoon starters will be hoping they don't put too much water on
these greens overnight.  So that they can keep it balanced and let
the afternoon players tomorrow get what we experienced this
afternoon, which were, like I say, I'm not going to call it
unfair, because the pins were fairly puttable, if you were on the
correct sides of them.  Once you started getting on the wrong side
of them, they could make you look very silly.  They were very
glassy.  You go out and look at some of those holes later on this
evening and literally, you know, a few times you're scared to lean
on your putter, to remark your ball because you're scared it might
skid out from underneath you.  It's literally like an ice rink
around some of the holes.
But that's what the conditions are all about out here.
And that's why premium on accuracy off the tee.  You must keep it
in the fairways to have half a shot to position it.  It's position
off the tee to have a chance to position your second shot, to have
a chance to position your putts around the hole to get out of
there with par.  That's really what this course is all about.
Like I said, did that well.  The two doubles were just
killer blows.  Turned those into bogeys.  If I whip it around
there and 2-over today, and I'm not so disappointed.  4-over has
got a bit of a nasty taste to it right now.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
GRAEME MCDOWELL:  Yeah, I mean, yeah, this golf course
kind of gives you half a dozen chances where you don't have to
chase too hard if you play well.  We'll see what the pins kind of
have to offer.  You've got to attack when you can and play
conservative when you can.
By no means I'm out of this tournament.  The scoring was
pretty hot this morning, there's no reason I can't shoot 4- or
5-under par in the morning and get myself back into this.
If this golf course continues to get firmer and faster,
the way it's burning out right now, we're looking at a Hoylake
weekend.  I'm playing with the last British Open champion at
Hoylake, and he's pretty surprised at how firm and fast this golf
course is already.  If he's saying that, the weekend at Hoylake
already on Thursday, it's going to be interesting to see what this
place looks like in a couple days time.  It's going to be tough.
Q.  (Inaudible.)  Obviously they were expecting good scoring.
GRAEME MCDOWELL:  I don't want to stand here and
criticize the setup.  That would be wrong of me to do so.  There's
guys making a score out there.  Like I said Tiger's 2-under was
impressive.  Frankie Molinari is behind us and shooting 2-under.
You have to be very patient and very conservative and keep the
ball on the correct side of the pins.  Like I say, the only thing
I did wrong this afternoon was compound the errors when I did get
out of position, trying to be smart and just very hard to control
it out of this rough in these firm, fast fairways.  That was, like
I say, disappointing, I'll regroup and get back out there in the
morning.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
GRAEME MCDOWELL:  I hope so.  I don't think The R&A are
going to be too upset by any criticisms of the flag positions
today.  It is what it is.  They've got a fairly good balance of
scores out there, 4- and 5-under par, it's a good effort out
there.  I feel like this afternoon was potentially a little harder
scoring-wise.  Got the tough end of the draw.  But that should
balance itself out in the morning.  We'll see.


 
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT