ALSTOM OPEN DE FRANCE
July 5, 2013
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Second round of 69, how would you assess your play today?
GRAEME McDOWELL:   Fairly solid again.   I hit the ball really well for 18 holes yesterday. 
Came out, played the first ten or 11, a little solidly today.   A little scrappy coming in perhaps but all in all, I'm playing this golf course the way it's supposed to be played, fairways and greens.   Once you start hitting it off‑line around this golf course, it will punish you. 
I controlled the ball really well the last couple days.   Just haven't got the putter revved up yet but well in touch.   Shouldn't be more than three or four back going into tomorrow and right where I need to be. 
It's been a rough couple months for me.   Not really been playing the kind of golf I'd like to play, and the key this week was to come and try to get myself in the mix for the weekend and get some of the juices flowing again.

Q.   You've been working very hard on your game and you said you've hit more balls in the last two weeks than previously in the two months before that; how much are you benefitting from that work, and can you feel it coming through?
GRAEME McDOWELL:   I can.   We all know as golfers, when you're working hard, especially on some technique, that technique has to settle in and bed in before you can start to trust it, and you know, I've trusted my move really well the last couple days.   The ball has been doing what I expected it to do mostly and starting to see some nice shots. 
Excited for the weekend and excited to make the cut, really (laughing).   It feels like a step in the right direction right now, but you know, this golf course is one I've always enjoyed, and nice to be going into the mix going into this great weekend.

Q.   You mentioned making the cut, you've missed four of your last six, but the two that you've made, you've won both times, a good omen, isn't it? 
GRAEME McDOWELL:   I think a good omen.   You know, I certainly know what to do when I putt myself in these positions.   I just haven't had an opportunity to do it much lately.   Probably on one of my worst missed‑cut runs in a little while, I think I read, since 2007. 
So nice to break that run, first and foremost, and not just that; nice to be on the leaderboard. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT