BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 23, 2013
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  GRAEME McDOWELL:     I played okay.   Just typical Wentworth performance for me really.   Feel like I hang in, hang in, hang in, and then, you know, pulled my drive a little on the last there.   Didn't feel like I had a good enough lie to beat the ditch and splashed it out, and licking my chaps with 6‑iron all over the pin and just went nowhere knocked out of the sky made double on the last and battling all day, hanging in there. 
Just ducked the last‑‑ I don't play this golf course well.   I don't see a score around it well.   It needs to be sort of fiery for me to have a chance for me.   I find it kind of long and a bit of a slog really.   It's a tough golf course, let's be honest.   I knew anything around par today would have been a good effort.
A bit disappointed with 2‑over par but my ball‑striking wasn't bad.   I putted all right, let's be honest, the greens are slow.   It's been a cold winter here in Britain as we all know, and tough to get these greens up to speed.   But funny, I prefer them from the last couple of years, I would rather have sort of slow and bumpy rather than fast and bumpy. 
So I'm not blaming anything at all.   It's just, like I say, just a standard Wentworth performance for me really, unfortunately.   Not really my happiest hunting ground.   But nothing to do with anything but just lack of birdies out there.   I only made one today.   So it's not really good enough. 
Decent ball striking and we'll try and get after it tomorrow.

Q.   Is this a course that stops the momentum in a way for you? 
GRAEME McDOWELL:   It stops something.   I'm not sure what it is.   Do you mean generally this year? 

Q.   Coming down from the high. 
GRAEME McDOWELL:   There's no momentum stoppers for me.   I'm in great form.   I'm swinging the club great.   I'm feeling great.   Just sometimes you get to golf courses which don't fit your eye 100 per cent, but this is a huge event.   I want to be here, I want to perform as well as I possibly can and I'll come out and give it 100 per cent tomorrow and see if I can get myself back into it. 
Let's be honest, the way the weather is forecasted, the scoring is not going to go anywhere.   If I can get it back to around par tomorrow, get into the weekend, we'll have half a chance, but disappointed with the finish more than anything.   That's why I feel a bit beaten up right now because I thought my third shot was a good shot and it was 20 yards short of the hole; so, disappointing.   I feel like I have this conversation way too often in this part of the world right here. 

Q.   A performance like that isn't bad.   This was going to be a tough day always anyway. 
GRAEME McDOWELL:   Tough to get my head right the last couple days.   It's a busy place the last couple days.   It's not the kind of preparation, winning,     36 Saturday and Sunday coming in here, not as physically and mentally prepared as I would like to be for a big event like this one but such is life. 
Went out there this morning, swung the club great, felt decent and just couldn't get it going.   But it was a good, fun morning playing with the boys and looking forward to tomorrow.   Hopefully the forecast is incorrect and I will go get it. 
Great crowds out there, fantastic atmosphere, crowds, all of the above.   It's a big time field this week and raring to go tomorrow. 

Q.   Rory said you cleared the air the other day. 
GRAEME McDOWELL:   Yeah, we did, absolutely.   There was really nothing to be said.   There was a little‑‑ Rory read a few things that I had said, and after I explained to him where I was coming from with those things, you know, I was merely trying to speculate about speculation. 
I'm not in a position to be giving any official or unofficial confirmation of what's going on because to be honest with you I don't really know what's going on.   After I evidently plained to him where I was coming from, he understood and we have no problems.   We are very good friends.   The last thing I want to happen, whatever happens between Rory McIlroy and Horizon Sports is that him and I lose our friendship.   That's not going to happen.   We are very good friends and all is good.

Q.   It was great to see the two of you walking down the first fairway together. 
GRAEME McDOWELL:   He's a good kid, you know.   He's a great player and a great friend and that's not in jeopardy, let's put it that way. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT