VOLVO WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
May 19, 2013
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Fantastic performance from you today, eight birdies, no bogeys, talk us through it from your point of view?  
GRAEME McDOWELL:   I guess when you get to this point of this tournament, especially when conditions are like they were this morning, just absolutely perfect, the greens here at Thracian Cliffs have just got better and better by the day.   
And when you're playing a guy like Branden Grace you have to play well.   I played solidly today and hit a lot of quality shots.   My swing felt tighter and more together than it was yesterday and I putted better by the day and had to make some putts today.   Branden hung in there tough.   He was a tough guy to beat and thankfully I was able to get the job done.   
   
 Q.   Same pattern as other matches, getting ahead well; previous matches you've struggled to close out the big lead.   Today, different.   Why?  
GRAEME McDOWELL:   Just a little more focus on those holes and realizing that I'm playing a quality player in great conditions and there's birdies around every corner.   So I really had to keep the foot on the pedal if you like and big putt on 13, having just missed my eagle putt on 12; to roll the one in on 13 was huge for my own belief.   
Probably the first birdie I made on that hole this week‑‑ and to birdie 15, hit two good shots at 16.   Branden is a great guy, quality player and I'm really excited to be in the final in this great tournament again and Thongchai Jaidee will be a pretty formidable opponent.  
   
 Q.   Talk us through 12.   One of our guys said shot of the day.   
GRAEME McDOWELL:   You know, you really just have to pitch it anywhere around the front edge of that green there.   I had 200‑something front edge and turned a little 4‑iron in there just off the upslope and came out exactly how I pictured it and couldn't believe I yipped the putt.   Just couldn't read it but that was a really good swing.   
That was a key part of the round because like you say, I haven't played that part of the course well this week and to swing the club the way I did through the turn was nice today.  
   
 Q.   Players say they get more aggressive through the week because they have to; is that true for you?  
GRAEME McDOWELL:   I call it patient aggression.   In match play in the past I've been guilty of being too aggressive.   I'm just trying to play fairways and greens, attack targets when I can, when the pin allows me to, when my opponent allows me to and just use my putter to good effect.   
So aggressive when I need to be.   There's a lot of birdie chances out here now and conditions couldn't be more perfect.   Golf course in great shape.   
   
 Q.   Thongchai this afternoon; have you played with him much?   
GRAEME McDOWELL:   I have played with him many, many times in the past, great little player, great attitude for the sport.   He's going to be a tough guy to shake off.   He plays the game very similar to myself, fairways and greens, good short iron player, good putter.   He's got the right kind of game for match play, so I'm expecting a tough game.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT