VOLVO WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
May 16, 2013
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Five and three victory, how would you sum up that match?
GRAEME McDOWELL:   I played solidly.   Important to get off to a nice start.   You know, for the guys that lose today, it's not the end of the world.   They can still go out and try to win tomorrow again. 
To get the win under the belt today is very important.   To really kind of takes the pressure off, some, what going into tomorrow, but you certainly can't take it lightly.   If the game goes the other way in the morning, I still have a job to do tomorrow afternoon. 
But I enjoy the golf course.   It's very fiery, very linksy.   I think it suits my style of play, so I was happy the way I hit the golf ball today, starting to get my head around these greens and looking forward to some more good golf tomorrow.

Q.   IS your game plan for this golf course evolving day by day? 
GRAEME McDOWELL:   I think so.   It plays shorter every day you come out here.   Some of the clubs I hit off tees on Tuesday, they went further yesterday.   Some of the clubs I hit yesterday, they went further again today.   So your game plan certainly has to evolve; you're feeling your way into this golf course, it's a little bit of an unknown quantity for guys. 
But it's stunning to look at it; it's tricky; it's funky in places, but you've got to get on with it and if you hit good shots and place the ball well, you get rewarded.

Q.   A win at The Heritage but missed cuts at THE PLAYERS and the Masters.   Coming in here, how were you feeling about your play? 
GRAEME McDOWELL:   Yeah, I missed the cut at Augusta, but knew in my heart I played okay but just never really got it going.   To be honest, the missed the cut at THE PLAYERS last week, same thing, didn't play badly, just didn't clean up around the greens, didn't putt well.
So I come into this week knowing that my game is in good shape, ticking over, and you just have to take it week‑by‑week.   A week like this, you've got to know it's a little bit of a lottery.   So you have to go out and take every guy as it he comes and try to just play better than him and hopefully get into the weekend, get on a bit of a run.

Q.   You play Stephen Gallacher tomorrow afternoon and he will have played in the morning as well; is that advantage for him because he knows how the course is playing, or an advantage to you because you'll be fresh?
GRAEME McDOWELL:   A bit of both really.   The result of that game in the morning will define how I approach tomorrow afternoon.   If Stephen goes and beat Chris Wood, it means we are both through into the weekend and perhaps it's less of a pressure‑packed match.   But I'll still want to go and win that match for sure. 
It's funny, the front nine here is quite a physically demanding golf course and all of a sudden we get lots of cart rides and shuttles on the back nine.   All in all, it's an easier walk than we were expecting and I don't think the guys will have any problems playing 36 holes out here and Stephen will be tough to beat tomorrow afternoon. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT