THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 3, 2013
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  GRAEME McDOWELL:   You know, the Bear Trap didn't really have its claws out this week.   Played downwind out of the left.   Made 15 and 17 easier shots than they are in the past.   Any time it's back into the breeze here, as we found out the last two days, we got the PGA National winds back again, it always blows here.  
It's always a great test of golf and I've always enjoyed coming to this tournament.   These last two days were a real good test of golf.   Disappointed to bogey the last here like I did today, but I had a huge mud ball in the middle of the fairway, trying to make birdie, so be it.   Very, very happy with my performance this week.  
   
 Q.   Looks like you'll get a Top‑20 finish.   Is this something you can carry some momentum into next week's event at Doral?  
GRAEME McDOWELL:   Yeah, I feel like I've got some really nice momentum.   Played solid at the Match Play last week.   Happy with the progress I'm making, especially around the greens this week.   I scrambled extremely well.   My bunker play was sharp.   My putting was sharp and everything bodes well, it's early in the season, only three events in and I'm happy the way things look and looking forward to a test at Doral next week.   
Just as tough as yesterday.   Greens were getting glassier, drying out as we speak.   And it was tough.   The PGA TOUR didn't shy away with the golf course setup, I have to say.   I expected some of the pins to be a little easier than they were but it was tough.   It was a really tough course setup.   It was difficult to score out there.   You know, we acclimatized nicely yesterday.   It took me seven or eight holes yesterday to kind of find my groove in this wind and really happy the way I hit the ball the last 27 holes.   
   
 Q.   The field looks like a WGC Honda Classic at the beginning of the year, a lot of big names up there.   
GRAEME McDOWELL:   Yeah, it's good.  
   
 Q.   What does it say about the fact that we have got two young guys that are up there and kind of sticking in front of everybody?   
GRAEME McDOWELL:   This is a great event.   I love coming here.   It's always been kind to me, this golf course, I enjoy playing it.   It's a real good test of golf.   I think whoever wins it coming down the stretch here today will hit some shots really under the gun.   
There are some intimidating tee shots, 15 and 17.   Not as intimidating as they are in years gone by, but still you've got to play the golf and with respect to the young players, I know Michael Thompson, tied at the U.S. Open last year at Olympic and he's obviously got some game.   
Luke Guthrie, I don't know a lot about him, but players are coming out, young guys are coming out more and more ready for the TOUR than years gone by.   Whether that's something to do with the quality of amateur golf, the quality of college golf, something, but the guys are coming out more and more ready.   Great to see around a golf course this difficult.   
   
 Q.   Anything you can point to that separated you from being Top‑5 or whatever?  
GRAEME McDOWELL:   Yeah, stretch of holes I played yesterday when I bogeyed 4, doubled 5, bogeyed 6 and bogeyed 7.   That was a killer blow for me yesterday.   Like I say, just trying to find my groove in this wind.   
All in all, you know, I really‑‑ last 27 holes, a couple putts here or there, bogeyed the last, got a huge mud ball in the middle of the fairway, trying to hit 3‑wood and just went duck‑hook left.   Apart from, that I didn't leave a lot of shots out there.   I really scrambled well.   It was hard.   So like I say, there was a stretch of four holes yesterday just blew me out of the tournament.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT