THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 1, 2013
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Solid round out there today, how much different is it playing not having ball‑in‑hand today?  
GRAEME McDOWELL:   Funny enough, the front nine wasn't too bad.   I feel like the back nine I started to pick up a little bit of mud.   Not sure if the back nine is a little lower or closer to the water or something.   It's borderline.   
These fairways are kind of still wet.   It doesn't look like they will be able to get mowers on them, not the purest lie you'll ever see.   Some of them are a little kind of, a little iffy, but it is what it is.   
It's a good test of golf out here.   The greens are probably as good as I've ever seen them at this event.   The rough's penal.   So you've just got to hit the ball in play here.   
I've always enjoyed this golf course.   I think it rewards accuracy off the tee, good, aggressive iron play at times, and I'd love an opportunity to win this weekend coming down those last four holes, because they get your attention.   Whoever wins this weekend and whoever has won this event at this venue has to hit a few shots coming down the stretch.   It's never over till it's over here at this great event.   
   
 Q.   It is a tremendous event, and now you're going to have plenty of time for the golf course to dry out between now and the time you tee off tomorrow afternoon.   Talk about your draw, you didn't have any wind yesterday afternoon or this morning?  
GRAEME McDOWELL:   Yeah, I don't think I've ever played three days in a row on this golf course with so little wind.   Even the Pro‑Am on Wednesday was flat calm, and two calm days like you said, yesterday afternoon was beautiful and this morning was really nice, also.   
So yeah, like I say, not really sure if I've ever played this golf course quite so benign.   But you know, it's a good par 70 test of golf; and you look up at that leaderboard and no one is going real crazy, despite ball‑in‑hand yesterday.     
             A little more difficult today with the ball down, but you know, it's a good test of golf here.   Good, solid golf course, and you know, it really asks all the questions.   
   
 Q.   You wouldn't want to play this after non, though, would you?  
GRAEME McDOWELL:   You never want to wish any bad on your fellow compatriots there, but you know, you take the rough with the smooths when it comes to draws, and this one was not a bad draw, so I'll take whatever comes.   In decent shape going to the weekend, looking forward to it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT