THE RYDER CUP
September 29, 2012
Graeme McDowell
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  RORY McILROY:   We just sort of plotted our way around the golf course.   We made a couple birdies coming in but it just wasn't enough.   We got behind early again and then we tried our hardest to get back into the match.  
GRAEME McDOWELL:   It was hard, you know, very hard to ignore the red on the board.   It's hard to ignore the noise that's been made around the golf course.   We are trying to concentrate on our game and we are trying to get our job done.   We just had two sessions in a row now where we made nothing, and consequently, going to lose to great teams.  
   
 Q.   Four behind at this stage, is the team's chances for victory still alive?  
GRAEME McDOWELL:   It's absolutely still alive, there's no doubt about it.   We have a big afternoon ahead of us.   We have 12 big singles tomorrow, and it's happened many, many times from this position, we've got to play great but we can absolutely come back from here.  
   
 Q.   Playing this afternoon with Ian Poulter, first time without Graeme.  
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, it will be great, the intensity that he brings to it I'll really enjoy that.   I'll enjoyed feeding off him and we'll feed off one another and try to get a blue point on the board.  
  
 Q.   Hard to hide the disappointment on your face?  
GRAEME McDOWELL:   Yeah, I'm very disappointed a, to lose this morning and b, to the no be playing this afternoon.   It's been a cold two sessions on the greens for myself, especially, and you know, we just didn't get the rub of the green this morning.   We had a lot of great putts that didn't go in and two great competitors in Furyk and Snedeker.   Just disappointed.   We are in a bit of a hole and I'll be looking forward to supporting the guys this afternoon.  
   
 Q.     A battling performance nevertheless.   
GRAEME McDOWELL:   Yeah, we were always behind.   We got off to a slow start.   Just parring the place to death, which is just not good enough in this format.   We just couldn't get the ball to go in the hole.   Rory had a few putts in particular that burned some edges, and we just couldn't get any momentum going.   Then at the end, we thought, here we go, a chance, and I was sort of in‑between clubs on the last hole and should have done better really to give Rory a chance and didn't quite do it.   
   
 Q.   Why is the European Team finding it so tough to get momentum going at the moment?  
GRAEME McDOWELL:   This golf course, it's about momentum.   If you're seeing it on the greens, you can really get going with the putter, and if you're not‑‑ I think we struggled on the greens yesterday afternoon.   Obviously I haven't got any feedback on this morning, but Rory and I certainly struggled this morning on the greens, again.   
We are in a hole.   These guys, there's blood in the water and they are up for it.   They have got a head of steam up and we have got to try and stop it this afternoon.   
   
 Q.   Europe need a big afternoon.   
GRAEME McDOWELL:   Yeah, we need a big afternoon; 3‑1 is what we need this afternoon.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT