BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 8, 2012
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Graeme, the wind blew a little bit out of a different direction today, course was still soft; 69, how do you feel about it?
GRAEME McDOWELL:   Yeah, you know, it's there or thereabouts, I guess.   It really is a course of two nines here.   The front nine you can really see your way around.   I scored really well on the front this week.   The back nine all of a sudden the greens get very undulating, and it's a tougher nine holes.   Happy enough with that.   Playing here this week, needing to do a job, trying to get myself to the TOUR Championship, and I'm sort of right in touch now.   I've kind of got like a Monday qualifier tomorrow if you like.   Probably need to shoot 68 to perhaps give myself a chance to get to the TOUR Championship, which was kind of my goal coming into the FedExCup Playoffs.

Q.   You're learning a lot about it this week.   You're 33rd projected right now.   That's close. 
GRAEME McDOWELL:   It's close.   Like I said, I've got to go do it tomorrow.   It's a bit of a score fest out there.   Guys are going low.   It's amazing how aggressively these guys can play when it's ball in hand and the fairways and the greens are receptive.   These are the best players in the world, and they will go low when the course is set up this way.

Q.   Are you a scoreboard watcher?   Are you going to keep track of where you are tomorrow?
GRAEME McDOWELL:   I'm no scoreboard watcher.   I know I've got to play as well as I possibly can and score as well as I can.   I'm not going to watch the scoreboard.   I certainly won't be looking at my projected FedEx.   I'll be more concerned how I stand in this golf tournament, and if I can go and see if I can get close to the leaders at some point tomorrow, then I have half a chance of getting to Atlanta, as well.

Q.   What's the one thing that needs to get better tomorrow to make that happen?
GRAEME McDOWELL:   You know, I've actually been very happy with my game the last couple days.   I feel a bit off color today, a little low energy, and I just need to rest up tonight and get sharp tomorrow and feel good.   I'm driving the ball pretty solidly, and my iron play is not bad, so I just need to play aggressively tomorrow and hole some more putts. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT