PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 12, 2012
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How much better is Rory than everybody knows?  
GRAEME McDOWELL:   Yeah, he answered all the questions that were asked of him.   You know, his third round was a big round of golf, to go out and shoot 3‑ or 4‑under par, whatever he did, just to get the job done‑‑ to go out there today on this golf course extending a lead, which is always hard to do as we know, and just keep the pedal down, hit the shots, he's obviously putting well.   I haven't had a chance to see much of his play this week, but his score speaks for itself.   He's a hell of a talented player.   He's had a few months off by his standards, so you could say he's back to his game.  
   
 Q.   You're a major champion.   For years people of your caliber are sick of being asked questions and answering them about Tiger Woods.   Are we at that point yet with Rory?  
GRAEME McDOWELL:   It's tough to say that Rory is a Tiger Woods type player.   Tiger Woods is a once‑in‑a‑lifetime type player, and Rory McIlroy is at least a once‑in‑a‑decade type player.   He's that good.   I've been saying it for years how good he is.   He showed us at Congressional how good he is, by getting to No.1 in the world this year at the Honda Classic, how good he is, and here we go again.   It's been a lot of fun to be a golfer from Ireland and to be a golfer from Northern Ireland.   
   
 Q.   Does he push you?  
GRAEME McDOWELL:   He does push me, there's no doubt about it, he pushes me now.   I'll always have one up on me.   Every time he looks at that U.S. Open trophy my name is going to be above him.   But he's going to be a multiple major champion.   I don't want to snub the guy.   I don't think he can lose it from here.   He's going to be a two‑time major champion.   He's going to be a superstar of the game, which he already is, but he's a real superstar now.   Yeah, he pushes me for sure.   
   
 Q.   Is Rory going to become the standard for guys to reach?   
GRAEME McDOWELL:   He's going to be the player that kids look up to, you know, that kids measure their own wannabe games by.   Ten years ago it was Tiger Woods.   It still is Tiger Woods to a certain extent, but now we've got superstars like Rory McIlroy for kids to be looking at with the double‑hip snap or whatever the hell he calls it.   The action itself of the golf ball, chipping was just incredible, touch and feel and technique, and learning how to putt, learning how to score.   I mean, with a great attitude and great charisma and great character.   That's pretty much in a nutshell, he's great for the game, absolute breath of fresh air for the game of golf, plenty of superstars around the world like him.   
   
 Q.   Have you played with him?  
DAVID LYNN:   Yeah, we played a couple rounds at Lytham and we chatted a little bit.   Sometimes the ball ain't going to make you happy.   It's a fickle game.   Like I said, he's bigger and better than that, and like I said, intelligent enough to learn from his mistakes, if he feels like he's made any the last few months.   I can only tell objectively I haven't seen much in the last few months.   So like I say, this is a tough game, and you've got to learn.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk a little bit about your weekend, another top 10 at a major?  
DAVID LYNN:   Yeah, for me this is the week of should have been, could have been.   Would I have given Rory a game today, who knows.   I threw at least six shots away that I can think of off the top of my head, threw them away, and a couple basic little errors around the greens.   Not sharp enough on the greens this weekend.   Two doubles this morning, a couple sloppy ones early why the week, but all in all, a work in progress, positives, getting better all the time.   Great year, my best year in the majors bar none.   Forget 2010, this is my best year in the major championships.   Had a chance to win a couple.   Didn't get the job done, learned a lot about myself again, and very, very, very pleased with my effort in the four major championships this year.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT