PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 10, 2012
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  GRAEME MCDOWELL:   It's one of the toughest setups I think I've seen at a major championship in a long time.   They didn't put the tees very far forward.   The pin on 14 and the pin on 17, I'm not sure how you get within 20 feet of those.   It was just about setup.   It was a tough setup on a calm day, and with a 30 mile an hour wind across this course, you've got a serious test of golf on your hands.   75 or below is a decent score out there, I really believe that.   Vijay's 69, that's a serious score.   That's a serious score.

Q.   A reasonable course is fair to everybody.   Do you think it's fair to everybody?
GRAEME MCDOWELL:   Tough to say.   You know, I was very happy to get off that golf course, I have to say.   I'm trying to think of the last time I remember a golf course playing this difficult, because it's a links wind, blowing across a golf course which is super soft, with some of the most difficult pins on the course out there.   It's brutal. 

Q.   It isn't meant to be played in those conditions, is it?
GRAEME MCDOWELL:   I mean, this golf course is designed to be played in the wind, but the golf course is also saturated, as well.   All around it's a tough test.   Is it unfair?   I mean, this is the PGA Championship.   You've got to go out there and battle it out, and someone is going to win the tournament this weekend.   You've got to hang tough out there.   I'm actually quite proud of my hang today because I made one birdie, one penalty shot, I only made five bogeys out there in pretty tough conditions.   I holed out well for that because my pace putting was diabolical coming in.   I was giving the wind a little bit too much bias on the greens and just slamming everything by.   But the course is very, very tough setup today.   Someone will score, someone will score like Vijay did this afternoon, but there will also be certain elements of carnage out there.

Q.   In terms of your chances in the championship, though, would two more days like this maybe suit you?   Would you be happy with that?
GRAEME MCDOWELL:   It's a bit long for me out there in these conditions.   I didn't flight my irons quite as well as I would have liked to coming back into the wind there.   They were just ballooning on me a hair, something I need to address a little bit.   But I'm four behind Vijay right now on my side of the draw.   Just depends what happens this afternoon.   I don't see the lead going much further away than 4‑under par to be honest with you.   If it keeps up like this, that's what I'll be hoping for. 
Not meaning any disrespect to anyone out there, I need it to play tough this afternoon to keep me in touch.   If I'm within four or five going into tomorrow, game on, I'm right where I need to be going into another weekend of a major championship.   I've just got to play a little better than I played today.   I played lovely yesterday, putted well.   Today I only played average and I putted very averagely. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT