WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 3, 2012
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  GRAEME McDOWELL:   It was a little bit of the reverse of yesterday.   I got off to a good start yesterday and didn't finish the today, and today I got off to a slower start and finished strong.   I guess the front nine is a hell of a lot more scorable than the back.   That's really the bottom line.   A little bit of wind puffed up there for a while and I thought we were going to get a great draw, but I see it's laying down again. 
Great scoring conditions out there.   Greens are a little bit more receptive in the mornings and firm up big time in the afternoons, so it was definitely a big difference out there where you could attack a few pins. 
Yeah, I'm there.   I'm there or thereabouts in my game, just a little bit‑‑

Q.   Nice to see Lee Slattery on the board?
GRAEME McDOWELL:   Yeah, good effort for first time here.   Good to see Lee.   He's always been one of those guys you play with and wonder why he doesn't do better.   He's a perennial fighting for his card.   There's a lot of guys like that that are more than capable of doing it, and all they need is just a little bit of getting the experience and getting the confidence in themselves that they can do it on a big stage.   It's all about thinking big, I suppose.   You've got to think beyond 115th on the Money List, and getting into events like this will certainly help him expand his mind a little bit.   And he's obviously a good enough player, so great to see him up there.

Q.   Did you find anything last night or is it still a work in progress?
GRAEME McDOWELL:   I'm not really searching as such.   I'm just trying to bed in a few swing thoughts.   I'm a bit wishy‑washy with my thoughts in that I've got five different ways of doing the same thing, and I just need to pick one and stick with it. 
I was a little bit that way at the Open Championship where every evening I was going to the range just trying to get my thoughts together.   I think I found a couple of things on the course today, which there's nothing like competitive practice, and there's no doubt, I feel very flat this week coming off the back and competing at the Open and looking at sort of next week. 
It's amazing how this week can kind of‑‑ you can lose sight of the fact that we play for a lot of money here this week.   It's a very prestigious event because it's sort of sandwiched in between the last two major championships of the year, and it's very hard to not have one eye on next week.   That's why the key to this week is to try and get on the board Thursday and Friday because very quickly it just becomes a dress rehearsal for next week.   It's a prestigious event, this one.   You don't want to forget that. 

Q.   Would it be different if wasn't a no‑cut event? 
GRAEME McDOWELL:   I'm sure there will be guys who would like to be missing the cut right this second, I'm sure the guys right on the bottom of this leaderboard.   It's a death march out there this weekend for guys because of this field, the money and the World Ranking points are very, very top heavy.   We always kind of talk about having to play aggressively here because the difference between finishing 30th and 50th here this week is minimal in the big picture. 
I mean, listen, I know it's $20,000, $30,000, whatever, and that's great money, but I'm talking about the big picture, World Ranking points, Money Lists and get ready for next week.   You want to get yourself established on this leaderboard so you have something to fight for this weekend as opposed to chewing your shoelaces all weekend. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT