ALSTOM OPEN DE FRANCE
July 6, 2012
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  GRAEME McDOWELL:   Yeah, I hit the ball very, very good today.   Tricky conditions the front nine.   I kind of did the hard work early.   I shot 3‑under par on the front nine in a pretty tricky wind, and then the slightly more benign back nine there.   I left a few putts out there to be honest.   I burned a few edges.   I hit the ball beautiful on the back nine and just couldn't seem to get it in the hole.   3‑putted 16 after a great shot in there about 12 feet.   Then hit it to eight feet on the last and burned the edge again.   
Very, very happy the way I played and to be honest with you, right in the mix and right where you want to be.   Marcel, 6‑under par, that was impressive.   I look at myself at 3 shots outside of second, and you know, it's going to be a war of attrition this weekend and I'm really happy the way I'm hitting the golf ball.   
   
 Q.   To what extent were you affected by the conditions, the lightning threat?   
GRAEME McDOWELL:   I think if anything, the delay was a benefit to us, because it looked like it was going to rain pretty hard.   And it kind of took a little bit of the wind away, so I think that the delay was beneficial.   So it didn't really affect play in any way, shape or form.   
   
 Q.   Power was affected and the leaderboard was not updated; did you notice that at any stage during your round?  
GRAEME McDOWELL:   I noticed Lee Westwood was only thru 11 holes most of the day so I figured everyone had kind of headed home for a few glasses of vin rouge.   
No problems.   Obviously we are hoping to get everything up and running again.   Like I say, didn't really affect play at all.   It was pretty good.   
   
 Q.   In terms of being just a couple of shots outside second place, from this course, shots can come and go very easily, can't they?  
GRAEME McDOWELL:   For sure.   Looking at this leaderboard, 3‑ or 4‑under par can win this tournament from here.   It's U.S. Open‑esque tee‑to‑green.   The greens are fairly big targets.   The greens are actually bigger targets than the fairways are at this golf course, so it's a true story.   
You know, they are fairly receptive, big targets and the fairways are just of premium.   And actually hit it in a lot of fairways today and have to keep doing that this weekend.   Very happy with how I'm swinging it.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT