THE IRISH OPEN
June 29, 2012
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Going back to the early part of the round, after seven holes you're two shots outside of the cut line, how much pressure are you feeling at that moment?  
GRAEME McDOWELL:   Yeah, you know, I was fairly disappointed with my start today.   I hit it on to the first green and 3‑putted, and hit the wrong club on 3 over the back.   I was starting to get a little down on myself.   All of these thousands and thousands of people come out to support us and I wasn't really putting on much of a show for them.   
It was great to dig in the way I did and birdie 8, 10,11, 12 and pick one up on the last there.   I really wanted to make sure I was in for the weekend.   And not only that; I wanted to try to give myself half a chance.   There's certainly a low score on this golf course if you can get it going early doors.   Perhaps 5‑under is not quite out of the tournament yet, and like I say, wanted to try and dig deep for these great crowds.  
   
 Q.   You carried a scoreboard here in the British Amateur Championship in 1993 at 14 years of age.   Did you ever dream you would be out there today in front of that lot performing for them?   
GRAEME McDOWELL:   No, I always remind Iain Pyman, he won the Amateur here in '93.   I picked his match up around the quarterfinals and carried his scoreboard all the way in until he won it.   And I remember looking up and thinking, wow, maybe some day that will be me.   Little did I think that 20 years later, 19 years later, that I would be here playing the Irish Open and that would be one of the main reasons why I would be here.   
No, it didn't cross my mind for a second.   It's really a dream come true to be here this week.   It gives me a huge amount of pride to see all of these people that came here to support us and the way The European Tour and Royal Portrush, the job everyone has done.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel there are good scores for you this weekend?   
GRAEME McDOWELL:   I do.   I've actually played pretty good the last couple days.   Today was the first day that I really started seeing it on the greens.   So far this week, I've putted like a man who has never seen these greens before, and we know that's not true.   I've struggled a little bit with the speed of them.   
Obviously we have had a huge amount of rain here the last couple of months and they are just not quite as fast as we would like them to be.   You have to give them a bit of a hit, and I struggled with that.   The surface is good and I started to see the ball going in today.  
   
 Q.   Staying with your parents this week, how hard is it not to go down to the harbour and join in with the Irish craic?   
GRAEME McDOWELL:   Very difficult, very difficult, I have to say.   I was down there on Monday, had my couple of pints of Guinness with my food and kind of got that out of the system; well, tried to get it out of the system.   Believe me, I'll do well not to maybe sample a bit of Portrush's hospitality over the weekend.   
But hopefully the pressure is off me now and I can go into the weekend and free‑wheel it and try to shoot a couple of low ones and give it a run for its money, who knows.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT