VOLVO WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
May 19, 2012
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  STEVE TODD:   Thanks for coming in.   A battle out there today, taking Sergio out, it's a great result for yourself.
GRAEME McDOWELL:   Yeah, the result is a good result, no doubt about it.   But you know, after 15 or 16 holes this morning for us both, trickier conditions this afternoon, this golf course when the architect designed it, he didn't really envisage a 30‑mile‑an‑hour wind across.   As firm as it is, it's a really tough test.   As I said Wayne Riley there earlier, we are in Spain and it wasn't exactly El Classico.   Got the job done, and was disappointed there in regulation.   I didn't hit a great third shot but I thought I hit a decent first putt from off the fringe.   Miss‑read my second putt, and all of a sudden we are back to the 18th tee box. 
We both made two of the worst lay‑ups probably of all time on 18, mine from the sand.   There's no way I could stop the ball really from spinning away and Sergio hit a quality shot in there.   I watched him hit that 50‑footer and kind of resigned myself to the fact that I was going home and he misses it, and obviously I make my putt.
And it's a funny little pin position there.   I said to my caddie, Kenny, as he stood over the putt, I said, "This putt does not break left as much as he thinks."   I don't want to say thankfully I was right, 0062ecause like I say, you never pull against anyone, but I feel like I dodged a bullet a little bit there maybe in the playoff. 
It was a weird game.   We handed it back and forth to each other.   It wasn't a quality game of golf.   There were not very many birdies.   It was tricky.   We both hit it okay, but it was tough to make birdies on this golf course today. 

Q.   And now playing against Rafa? 
GRAEME McDOWELL:   I haven't played any golf with Rafa.   I know he's playing well this season; won in Dubai and he's obviously a quality player, hits it pretty long.   Another Spanish favourite to get through tomorrow morning. 
You know, I always believe in this format, you don't look at the name on the paper.   Whether he's a marquee name or not, these guys are all proven winners and they can all go out there and shoot 64 and you just have to go out there and control your own golf ball.   Very happy with the way I played this morning. 
This afternoon, like I say, tricky.   Like I say, just a long day out there so be resting up tonight and by tomorrow morning we will all have forgotten the ugliness of this game this afternoon and I'll be ready to go. 

Q.   Do you need just a bit of luck in this format? 
GRAEME McDOWELL:   You do, and I really haven't had many breaks in these kind of match‑play formats.   The WGC, I shoot my 67 and go home most years.   You know, this event last year, I kind of beat Rory on the Saturday morning, it left me a bit flat going into the afternoon to a hot Nicolas Colsaerts. 
Sometimes to win these type of events, you need stuff like what just happened to me on 18 to happen.   You need little breaks; your opponent to miss one.   Like I say, I count myself lucky to have scraped through.   At one point I thought I had it and at another point I thought I was going back to Portrush tonight. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT