WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 22, 2012
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Disappointed, obviously?
GRAEME MCDOWELL:   Disappointed.   This is my fourth year here, and I feel like ‑‑ I made six birdies today.   I played decent golf.   I ran into a man that played extremely well.   I felt like I had to follow him all day long, and I did most of the day, but he didn't put a foot wrong.   That's the beauty of this tournament.   It's not the beauty.   It could be the beast of this tournament, as well.   You just run into the wrong guy on the wrong day, and you have got your work cut out.   I had my work cut out today, and I didn't take care of business, so disappointed, yeah. 
I'm going to go and pack my bags here.   What time is it?   It's five past 11:00 on Wednesday, so ‑‑ I hear they are leaving this golf course and going somewhere else, so I'm not going to be sad to see the back of this place.   I love this resort.   They take care of it beautifully, but this golf course has not been good to me.   I just ‑‑ it doesn't inspire me to make a ton of birdies.   To win ‑‑ what have I won three matches here in four years?   That's disappointing.   I have played better than that every year I have been here, but, you know, that's just the way the cookie crumbles with this tournament.   I feel like I've had this conversation way too often standing right by this water fountain here.   Disappointing. 
You know what?   It's start of a great run of golf.   I'm very happy where my game is at.   I made some great clutch putts out there today.   Everything is taking over.   This just gives you nothing, this tournament, if you run into the wrong guy. 

Q.   It's annoying because you stood here speaking about your defeat to him last year, didn't you? 
GRAEME MCDOWELL:   Absolutely.   He beat me last year, and he seems to have my number a little bit, you know.   I have a tendency to bring out the best in guys around this track for some reason. 
Listen, you can't expect guys to go and play badly.   You have got to go and play well.   You can never sit back and play badly.   The second you start doing that, they will destroy you.   I didn't do that today.   I have to say I went out there and we had a hard fought match.   The big turning point was a missed put from inside him on 7.   We had great shots into 7.   He made it from 50; I miss it from eight feet.   Then I kind of miss it in the wrong place on 9, and I lose that.   So from being all flat to two down. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT