ABU DHABI HSBC GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 29, 2012
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   A hole‑in‑one, hitting the grandstand at the last and making birdies; give us your point of view. 
GRAEME McDOWELL:   That pretty much sums it up really.   Bit of a slow day.   Holed my tee shot on 12 with a 7‑iron there and that kick‑started a nice day really. 
Chip‑in from the fringe on 13.   A few missed opportunities, and then the worst lay up in the history of lay‑ups on the last there followed by a thinned gap wedge which ricocheted off the grandstand to six feet and just a regulation birdie. 
So it was an eventful nine holes and nice to give myself half a sniff.   But there's a lot of good players up there with chances.   Obviously I'm two behind, but it's a tough finish; who knows.

Q.   How do you feel about your chances? 
GRAEME McDOWELL:   I'll not be running away too far but I know Rory's got 15 feet on 17 for birdie and Rocky has got a two‑shot lead.   But it's a tough finish.   I won't be running too far away but I certainly don't expect to win. 

Q.   Pleased with this tournament today, the last nine holes? 
GRAEME McDOWELL:   Yeah, of course.   Any time you come back in 31 shots on a Sunday, semi in the mix is always a good day's work. 
It was certainly an eventful last seven holes with a hole‑in‑one and a nice ricocheted off the grandstand at the last.
I've certainly been playing golf a long time and a couple of things that have never happened to me this week; I've never broken my driver in the course of play like I did on Thursday and I've never saw a ball coming off the grandstand to six feet like that. 
But a lot of fun and I always enjoy this tournament.   HSBC do a great job and it's nice to start the season strong.

Q.   Talk about the ace on 12. 
GRAEME McDOWELL:   It was a front right pin there.   I think it was the third ace there this week so obviously they are going to have to do something about that hole, it's obviously a little too straightforward. 
A front right pin and I cut a little 7‑iron there and it pitched right in the front fringe and just trickled up there and disappeared.   I think it's my ninth hole‑in‑one in my golfing life and they are all pretty sweet. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT