ABU DHABI HSBC GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 28, 2012
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What's your thoughts, Graeme? 
GRAEME McDOWELL:   Yeah, solid day.   Good day.   Drove the ball fantastic.   Gave myself some opportunities.   Still haven't got really smoking hot on the greens.   Leaving a few out there. 
But in the mix for tomorrow.   It's exciting, first event back of the year, and you know, I'm very, very happy with the way I've hit the ball and my iron play especially has been sharp.   And like I say, I've actually driven the ball fantastic the last two days.   Maybe this broken driver has done me a favour. 
Yeah, very happy.   Positive stuff.   I'm excited to go and see if I can compete tomorrow. 

Q.   Maybe every cloud does have a silver lining. 
GRAEME McDOWELL:   Yeah, I've actually driven it better the last two days than I drove it on Thursday. 
So like I say, I've been testing this Cleveland driver pretty hard in practise, and it's forced me to put it in play, and I've liked what I've seen. 

Q.   As you say, you're maybe not quite on it, but you're still in the mix, so that's encouraging, as well.
GRAEME McDOWELL:   For sure, I don't feel like I've lit it up on these greens.   These greens are subtle here at Abu Dhabi Golf Club.   They are hard to read.   Surfaces are perfect, though, but they are frustratingly difficult to read, and hopefully I'm saving them all for tomorrow. 

Q.   Does it matter what the other scores are, your strategy for tomorrow, or do you just concentrate on what you have to do?
GRAEME McDOWELL:   You can't really attack this golf course from the rough.   You have to put it in play off the tee;   that's the No. 1 goal.   And if you do put it in play off the tee, there are areas of the golf course you can attack, yes. 
So I just have to keep playing my game and give myself opportunities and hopefully take a few more of them, and who knows.

Q.   When do you look at the board? 
GRAEME McDOWELL:   I keep my head down through nine holes and see what's going on really.   Maybe pop up and have a look at, say, 10.   Might be a decision to be made 10 whether to go for the green or no.   I know what I have to do on this golf course.   Like I say, you have to position it off the tee to have a chance. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT