WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 6, 2011
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Presumably when you reflect on this week, that was a good one? 
 GRAEME McDOWELL: For sure. Four very solid rounds of golf. Much more the kind of golf I expect from myself. Great to bounce back from probably one of the worst weekends of my career. So good to come here. This is a quality golf course. You've got to strike the ball properly here. I've been very happy with the way I've played. And especially the way I putted, you know, I putted horrifically last week and putted much, much more solid this week.

 Q. Presumably you felt you had a chance out there?
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, I mean, if Martin Kaymer had not skipped the last couple of holes, we might all have had a chance. 
 He's an unbelievable frontrunner; when he gets a sniff of a win -- he's pretty prolific and very clinical when it comes to finishing. You know, hats off to him. He's a classy player and he was impossible to catch out there today. 

 Q. From your perspective, putting those red figures up; I guess a couple more could have gone your way?
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Just nice to be in the mix in the back nine on a Sunday. I feel like I conducted myself pretty well and made some nice putts. No complaints from my end really. I'm just happy with my overall ball striking and ball flight control this week. 
 My short game and putting, especially, they were much sharper this week.

 Q. Amazing how quickly this game can turn around sometimes. 
 GRAEME McDOWELL: It's a horrible game sometimes and you have to stick with it and believe in yourself. I had a lot more belief in myself this week. Last weekend was just a blip in the radar. That's what Valderrama can do to you, and I still love the golf course and I'll still be back. But it was an embarrassment, yes, and it was great to bounce back the way I did.

 Q. Does it help in a sense to have hit that low, and you know things can only get better and it clears that mind a little bit. 
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Things can only get better, it was a great song. This is a nice spark that I need going into these next five weeks. Midway through my Sunday round at Valderrama, I wasn't particularly excited about the prospect of another six weeks out there. 
 But you know, this will give me a bit of MoJo hopefully going into next week, and I've got a lot of great golf ahead of me and just very happy with my general play this week. So you know, bring on Singapore. 

 Q. A lot to play for still, isn't there?
 GRAEME McDOWELL: We play for probably close to a third of our season from a monetary point of view in this seven weeks, and you can certainly take a very average season and turn it into a good one. So that's what I'm trying to do.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT