ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 2, 2011
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Rory was pretty disappointed not to get it done; same for you?  
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, I always disappointing when you're in the mix and can't quite get the job done. But when a guy plays like Michael played come down the stretch, you can't have any complaints.   
 I hit a fantastic putt on 15 which didn't go in which was probably the key for me. If that putt had had dropped, perhaps I had a chance coming down the stretch. But 16 and 17 are very tough par 4s, tough to make birdies there.   
 You know, disappointed with my three-whack on 17 but apart from that, very happy with the way I struck the golf ball today. No one lost the tournament today. Michael Hoey just played fantastic down the stretch.  
  
  Q. Do you feel like the tide has turned for your golf game? You said you had been working with Clive Tucker a little bit coming into this week.   
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, great things are ahead. Momentum is only one step in the right direction. I've taken a few steps in the right direction, the last six weeks or so, so I'm much happier with my game.   
 I've got a great schedule ahead of me towards Christmas, and some great stuff to look forward to. So happy with that performance, and of course, I would like a couple more but that's golf, and just kick on from there.   
  
  Q. Great to see Michael get his victory?  
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, he's a talented player. I've always known how good he is. I grew up playing golf with him, and he's one of those guys you wonder why he doesn't play well every week. Fantastic today, he missed a few short putts. Hung in there with his second shot to 16 and his second shot to 17 were top shelf. He's a world-class player, congratulations to him.   
 I didn't get the job done but Michael played fantastic. His second shot to 16 was out of the top shelf, and no complaints. A 3-putt at 17, yeah, but you know, you head to the front edge of that green and you're going to 3-putt sometimes.   
 The green speeds had me the last two days, they were very wet and very slow but that's St. Andrews and that's links golf. I just could not quite get the ball to the hole. No complaints. I'm very happy.   
  
  Q. Certainly gave yourself plenty of chances and a great step in the right direction.   
 GRAEME McDOWELL: For sure. It's been a frustrating season for me, no doubt about it. But I've turned the corner. I absolutely believe that. Today was a reward for some really good, hard work, and I know I'm on the right path now and I have a great schedule ahead. Looking forward to it.   
  
  Q. As for Michael, you did say moving into the final round just how classy a performer he is and you go back a long way; great to see him clinch one, isn't it.   
 GRAEME McDOWELL: For sure. Happy for him. I know how talented he is and I know how hard the Tour is. He's probably been an underachiever for how quality of a ball-striker he is, and he showed some class today. Hit some outstanding golf shots.   
 Like I said his second shot to 16 and the second shot to 17, really, the whole back nine, you hit a driver off the deck on 14, which had us all just kind of going, "wow." He's that good, and fair play to him.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT