PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 11, 2011
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Your reaction to the day, tough afternoon?
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, just didn't really happen for me. Drove the ball very averagely. Kind of had the rights going off the tee. These bunkers are so penal. The sand in them, the ball sits right down. So it doesn't give you much of a chance, so typically any time I hit it in them, I made bogey. 
 Made a lot of good putts that just didn't go in. And like I say, just couldn't really get it going. I hit a lot of decent shots. But just didn't really have any momentum out there. You know, like I said, the driver just wasn't behaving itself at all.

 Q. Is there a sense that you can bounce back with something a lot better tomorrow, make the cut, and then mount something at the weekend? You said that Top-10 would be something you'd be pleased with at the moment. 
 GRAEME McDOWELL: For sure. You know, if I can get the ball in play, my iron play is such that you know, I know I can make some birdies. And like I say, I felt like I putted well today. I know I can putt better on these greens. Yeah, I can go low tomorrow morning for sure. 

 Q. The characteristics of this golf course, they have thrown up an 85 for Ryo Ishikawa, 63 for Steve Stricker, almost a major championship record; it is a strange scenario today the way the scoring has been so diverse?
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, it's that kind of golf course. There's a lot of water on this golf course, so you can make a number. You know, you can get in big trouble. You can make doubles and triples, and you know, if you stay out of those, there are a lot of birdie chances, no doubt about that. You have to play those last four holes well. 
 There's a stretch whereby seven or eight holes on this golf course that you have to play well. Typically 2, 3, 4, and 14 through 18. Those are the key holes on this golf course, and if you can play those in or around par, then the other ten holes give you a chance to make some birdies. So that's really the key. 
 Staying out of the water, and just out of the bunkers; these bunkers plug, not very nice. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT