THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 15, 2011
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Take any positives away from this week? How do you sum up today?   
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Today was -- you know, I didn't even swing it my best this morning, to be honest, but I hung tough this morning. This afternoon I make a bomb on 5 to really get going. And I stand up on 6 and adjust make a negative swing and hit it in the right trees there. I stand up on 7 and react to the right shot and hit it left to the water, you know.   
 At that point I just felt the life kind of drain right out of me. My energy levels from 8 to a 10 or 2 to a 10. I'm chasing it on 9 to make bogey there. So it's just one of those days. Everything I tried just went wrong. I just made a few sour-looking swings coming in there.  
 But, yeah, a lot of positives to take away. I said I was going to take the positives away whatever happened this weekend. I said I was going to stick to my guns. It's going to hurt for a few hours, but it was a tough task today. The golf course and the wind got up. It was tricky, and I just didn't have it.  
  
  Q. Any actual physical fatigue? Maybe not fighting like you need to?   
 GRAEME McDOWELL: There is an element of physical fatigue, but I think it was physical fatigue brought on by a few bogeys at the wrong time. Long day out there. I just couldn't seem to get any momentum. You need a little momentum out there, and I couldn't seem to read the grain. I wasn't reading the greens the way I've been reading them. Couldn't hole anything. It was just a bad day at the office.  
  
  Q. Did what happened at 18 this morning have any impact on the round?   
 GRAEME McDOWELL: I went back to the hotel and tried to reset. I felt a little bit flat after 18 this morning, I really did. But I tried to pick myself back up again. I got off to a decent little start. Hung in there, hung in there. And like I say, the bogeys on 6 and 7 just killed me, killed my momentum completely. I just couldn't pick myself up.  
  
  Q. The old swing problems seep in in the afternoon?   
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, there were a few tired swings coming in there for sure. My legwork was pretty sloppy off the back nine there. Yeah, it was a pretty ugly finish. Like I said, I was just trying to get out of the boys' way a little bit. But you feel it's a bit of a lonely place up there.  
  
  Q. Were you trying to draw the ball on 6 or what were you trying to do?   
 GRAEME McDOWELL: 6? Well --  
  
  Q. Where you put it in?   
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, I was trying to hit a little draw up there. And the last thing we talked about before going into the ball was don't hit it left. So I certainly didn't do that. It was just a negative thought and a negative swing. Kind of ended my day, to be honest.  
  
  Q. What do you think of 17 here as a playoff hole? That's where they're going right now. If it ends there, what do you think of that?   
 GRAEME McDOWELL: It just depends how it ends. Obviously Paul Goydos a few years ago against Sergio, it's kind of a flat end. But that's where all the crowds hung out as well. So I guess in a way it's a great spectacle, No. 17.   
 Is it a great golf hole? Yeah, yeah, it's not an unfair hole by any stretch of the imagination. KJ had a magnificent shot in there in regulation, just a great golf shot. You've got to take your hat off to him. And David in the last round, fair play. Two quality players. Tough to pick a winner.  
  
  Q. Talk about the field of the US Open and your schedule the next few weeks now as opposed to going into this tournament?   
 GRAEME McDOWELL: I feel better, a lot better. Two weeks ago I was in pieces with my golf game, and I found it a little bit this week. Yeah, that last round was up there in my top 10 worst last rounds ever. So, you know, that's going to hurt a little bit, of course.  
  
  Q. How do you respond to that final round and put it in context of the week that you contributed much to this tournament?   
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Try to respond positively. I'm jumping on a flight to go to Spain tonight, and I'm taking a good game with me. Like I say, it was disappointing out there today. Probably my first time under the gun in a little while. So first time we played in front of a crowd that big in a little while, you know. So it's kind of getting back into the old vibes again.   
 Didn't quite have it out there. I was a little flat today. Energy levels weren't where I need them to be. But we live and we learn and we'll be back.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT