THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 12, 2011
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Graeme, you talked at U.S. Open media day about working on your swing. Today was a good sign. Is that just from the work you've been doing? 
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, I had a great week there at Lake Nona. My coach Pete Cowan came over. I've been working hard the last three or four weeks and not getting anything out of my golf swing. 
 I felt like the light switch came on a little bit over the weekend. I found a couple things that just hadn't been making any sense to me. I started seeing the golf ball behaving again. So I'm not trying to say I was expecting to do great things this weekend. I felt like I was on the beginning of -- I felt like I was back on the right path again, and I was just coming here this week to try to really start things off, start the summer going, start off on the right foot and get a clear mind and get patient again. 
 Just that's a great way to start the week. I hit some good shots today and made some good swings. Like I say, I haven't really been seeing that lately so it's good to see.

 Q. Were you feeling good in practice rounds or did it just kick in today? 
 GRAEME McDOWELL: I wouldn't say I've been playing good, but I've been feeling better. I've been playing some pretty dismal golf the last three or four weeks. New Orleans especially was awful. New Orleans was the straw that broke the camel's back, really. I knew I couldn't continue swinging it the way I was swinging it and I had to do something about it. 
 So Pete and I got together last Saturday. Went back to basics and tried to build the swing back up from scratch. I found a couple little feelings that were different, and off we go again. 
 That's just the nature of this game. Sometimes if it comes too easy and you take your eye off the ball, you know, the little parts of your golf swing that maybe you worked hard on to get you to that point. Sometimes you've just got to go back to basics and that's where I'm kind of at right now.

 Q. Little mental too? Just trying to decompress, put the bad behind you? 
 GRAEME McDOWELL: For sure. I've been beating myself up a little bit. You know, it's frustrating because we put pressure on ourselves. We want to play well every week that you can play well. But I expect to play better than I have been playing, that's for sure. 
 There have been some frustration levels in there. I've been beating myself up, and probably been tough to live with for the people around me as well, caddie's and agents, et cetera, et cetera. The mind feels a lot more clear the last couple of weeks. 
 I'm looking forward to it. It's a busy summer, so that's about the right time to start getting the head screwed back on again. The last six weeks has been tough, but it's been a little bit of a wake-up call as well.

 Q. The wind seemed to come up in the afternoon. It seemed like it was much more difficult. How would you compare your round to some of the numbers posted in the morning? 
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Tough to compare. I was on the putting green this morning about 11ish. It seemed to be blowing pretty hard around 11. This golf course is strange in that certain parts of the golf course feel windy and other parts feel sheltered. So you've really got to stay on top of the wind directions out there and really commit to your shots. I drove the ball well today, which is the real key to this golf course. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT