MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 7, 2011
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Thoughts on the day?
 GRAEME MCDOWELL: A little frustrating day, actually. I played pretty well. I 3-putted 10, 3-putted 13, 3-putted 14, 3-putted 15. And that was kind of my day summed up right there. 
 I was in control of the ball pretty well. But when I 3-putted 13 it knocked the stuffing out of me a little bit. I made a few ragged swings coming in. 
 But frustrating because I did everything right, put the ball in positions, just couldn't quite get it going on the greens. And if I get two of those four 3-putt I'm actually at level par and I'm happy with that. But 2-over's a little frustrating the way I hit it today. 

 Q. It can be like that at this place. 
 GRAEME MCDOWELL: Yeah, very much so. 

 Q. It can catch you. 
 GRAEME MCDOWELL: Very much so. I hit it on the shelf on 13, left it in decent position. Blew it by, blew it by, made about a 6-footer come back for my 3-putt. 
 And two good shots to 15, leave it short and miss it. And it's frustrating. 
 I mean 10, 10, I missed the fairway right there and played the smart shot, hit it front left, slightly heavy handed pitch, six feet by, blew it six feet by, missed the one back. So I mean compounding errors. I just was a bit ragged on that back nine, especially on the greens. 

 Q. Did the course play to a 65 that Rory shot?
 GRAEME MCDOWELL: Yeah, I think it did. I think it did. It's a hell of a score, don't get me wrong, but the pins were setup for scoring, the fairways are running quite slowly, which really helps around the greens, because the ball stays on the up slopes. 
 There's no doubt that that was on today. But you have to play great golf. You have to hole putts and you know if you got out of position it was a difficult golf course. But it was there for the taking today. 

 Q. Contrast, the lines here aren't that hard to get, but the pace is so hard to get. 
 GRAEME MCDOWELL: The pace is my problem today. Pace is my problem. The first nine holes I could barely get a putt to the hole. And then I sort of overreacted and started blasting everything on the back nine. It's funny, this golf course, you get it below the hole into the grain and they're incredibly slow. Just don't tell anybody in a Green Jacket that I said that. 
 You get above the hole down grain and they're ridiculously quick. There's such a big differential. 
 And I felt like maybe the first seven or eight holes I left myself generally below the hole and I couldn't get it there and then on the back nine I just started smoking everything, so but it's a bit disappointing.

 Q. You've had enough experience now in Major Championships to know that you're not where you necessarily wanted to be, but you're certainly not out of it. 
 GRAEME MCDOWELL: For sure. For sure. I just can't afford any mediocre rounds from here on in. I just got to play good now this weekend. I got three rounds ahead of me, and I've just got to shoot in the 60s all three times to have a shot. But by no means did I play myself out of the golf tournament today. 
 I mean, I'm nine behind a great 7-under par score from Rory and I've just got to go low from here. But I know I'm playing well enough I can do that. And I just got to get back to these greens, I just lost it a little bit today. I've been putting great in practice, so it's a little bizarre. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT