ABU DHABI HSBC GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 23, 2011
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. How satisfying is this week?
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, very good, very good. A lot of positives to take out of my game. To start the new year off, these two events, Srixon equipment in the bag, answered the questions and take some really good positive stuff into this four weeks -- I was saying into the off-season, but these four weeks off I have and get ready for a big summer hopefully. 
 I'm very, very happy the shape my game is in everything is moving in the right direction and I know what I need to work on. So it's all good. 

 Q. Tied third isn't too shabby. Didn't look likely at one stage, but very good finish. 
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Very happy to have dug in the way I dug in today. Yesterday was a frustrating day for me. I wanted it to badly yesterday. I was chasing too hard and sometimes when you try too hard, just can't get it done. 
 So today I tried to come out and relax a little bit more and try and make some nice birdies and just enjoy it a little bit more. 
 Martin Kaymer has played fabulous this week, deserves everything he gets around here. He seems to own this golf course, and you know, would he have taken some catching, had I been 100 per cent on my game this week.

 Q. Any surprise at the scale of his performance and the scoring he's managed across the week?
 GRAEME McDOWELL: No, he's a world-class player. He'll move to No. 2 in the world this week, and you know, just great for European golf to have No. 1, No. 2 in the world as European players, and I'll slip in there at No. 4 which is very satisfying, also.

 Q. And this off-season, what do the next few weeks hold?
 GRAEME McDOWELL: I've got four weeks off. I'm going to be in Orlando. First couple of weeks I'll rest up and just relax and try and eat good and rest really. The following two weeks will just be about getting my game back in shape and gearing up for a very busy spring and summer. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT