CHEVRON WORLD CHALLENGE
December 2, 2010
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. 6-under 66 today. What got you going?
 GRAEME McDOWELL: You know, it was just perfect scoring conditions. The greens here at Sherwood Country Club are unbelievable. You just have to get the ball rolling, and if it's on line it's going in. Just a lot of fun to play with Rory out there today. We kind of fed off each other. He got off to a good start and I kind of got going then, and like I say, we just kept making a lot of birdies out there, and it was fun scoring conditions.

 Q. Six weeks you've played in a row, three different continents. How are you feeling? 
 GRAEME McDOWELL: I'm feeling surprisingly good I have to say. Jet lag has been a little tough this week. I've been waking up at 3:00 a.m. every morning just getting ready to go. It's been a busy five, six weeks. We had the Race to Dubai last week, and I'm happy to be here playing Chevron World Challenge this week, but I've got a little bit left in the tank this weekend, but I'm looking forward to some time off and some cold beers, that's for sure. 
 Great day out there. It was perfect scoring conditions. Fun to play alongside Rory, one of my good mates. He got off to a good start and I kind of fed off him a little bit, and we birdied most holes out there between us, so it was, like I said, very good scoring conditions. The greens here at Sherwood are magnificent. You just have to get the ball rolling, and if you pick the right line, they go in.

 Q. How important is it to end the year on a good note? 
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, always important to -- it makes Christmas dinner taste a little better if you can finish strong. It's been a long six weeks for me, a lot of traveling. This is just nice. This is such a relaxed format here at the Chevron World Challenge, good bunch of people, great players, golf course is wonderful, and like I say, you couldn't ask for better scoring conditions out there when it's calm and the greens are pure.

 Q. The bogey on 18, are you still happy with your round?
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Absolutely. 6-under par is never a bad score anywhere in the world, so of course very happy with that and looking to try and build on that as the weekend goes on.

 Q. How about dealing with the host here because he's rolling right now. 
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, obviously the host, he's in good form. He's been looking like he's starting to play well the last couple months since the Ryder Cup, really, he looked ominously good, and great to see him up there. He does great things for this tournament, and of course we'll be trying to catch him this weekend.

 Q. You've got to get a vacation in somehow here before the real season starts again. 
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, I'm taking a pretty relaxed start to the year next year. I'm not going to play a huge amount of golf. Of course the season is never ending nowadays. Of course it's a good problem to have. Chasing the Race to Dubai the last few weeks and be here at the Chevron World Challenge this week, these are all good problems to have. But some time off is definitely in my future.

 Q. Are you going into the new year with a different mindset knowing that you're a major champion now?
 GRAEME McDOWELL: The mindset doesn't change. Every time I tee it up I'm trying to win golf tournaments, and I just needed the confidence and the belief that I've gained this year and pour it back into my game for next season. I'm feeling great, but of course I'll kick back and reflect on a great season at some point. But I'll be looking forward to next year, as well. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 GRAEME McDOWELL: I hit two great shots at 13, the par-5, and it just rolled over and left myself a tough up-and-down. You know, I just kind of -- just didn't really hit it close coming in. The pin on 15 was quite tight; I had a couple mud balls on 16; 17 was a smelly pin and 18 is a great hole. So no disappointment, fast start, but obviously just a great way to begin the week and hope to build on it as the weekend goes on.

 Q. Assuming the weather conditions change (inaudible)?
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, golf course is well set up for scoring. The greens are soft, very receptive, and they're very fast and pure. The whole golf course is very well set up for scoring, and if the weather remains like this, yeah, guys will go low. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT