UBS HONG KONG OPEN
November 18, 2010
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  First Round 65 -5

 GRAEME McDOWELL: Good start, I played really well today. I think the only green I missed was the last hole, which was the 9th hole. I played great. I mean, greens here at Hong Kong Golf Club are tough to putt. They are very grainy, tough to read. I had a lot of chances, chances that I could have made, but all in all, 5-under is a pretty solid start. 

 Q. Going along very nicely, blemish-free, until --
 GRAEME McDOWELL: 9 is probably the toughest hole on the golf course without a shadow of a doubt. 3-wood and didn't get it up past the corner and had to hit a hook around the trees and didn't quite get on the green and gave myself seven feet for par and missed that. 
 I would have taken that at the start of the day and definitely feeling good about my game.

 Q. It's only day one so it doesn't matter too much at moment, but you came in, looked at the TV, with that man who is just behind you in the World Rankings, Rory McIlroy just putting out at the last?
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, he likes this golf course a lot. He's very confident at the minute, and you know, he's making plenty of birdies. I'd love to have a chance to go head-to-head with him on Sunday. That would be nice. I mean, I'm feeling very good about my game, as well, and I like this golf course, too. 
 But he's definitely a bit of a specialist around this place and he's definitely a man to keep close to this week.

 Q. You're obviously looking after your own game but you look over your shoulder and see what he's doing?
 GRAEME McDOWELL: It's tough not to. You know he's right behind us there today and obviously Poults is there, too. You definitely are trying to measure up and see how you're doing against these guys and this is only positioning at this point. 
 You know, I'm very happy with that, 7-under is a great score, Rory, and he's the man to stay close to this weekend.

 Q. Carry on at this rate you'll have a lovely score?
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Three more of those and I'll take my chances. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT