UBS HONG KONG OPEN
November 17, 2010
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. I don't need to ask any questions, do I. 
 GRAEME McDOWELL: What do you need to know? 

 Q. I need you to tell me about the Hong Kong Open. It's got that special attraction for you I think, hasn't it, always a visitor here?
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, I've been here, I think this is maybe four years in a row I've been coming here. Obviously Hong Kong as a city, this is great. We stay downtown and eat in some great restaurants and have a great time. It's really a good atmosphere and a good week. 
 Something about this golf club, as well. It feels like a real golf club. You know, you're sitting out on the veranda there, and it's just got a really good feel. 
 The golf course is a course where I've played pretty well in the past. I've not really, I think a fifth or sixth is maybe my best return around here. But it is a golf course which I feel does suit me. You know, you have got to think your way around. You have to position your ball in the fairways. And I've just got to putt well. 
 This week, the scoring is low, so you've got to hole the putts. It is a golf course where -- which will give you a lot of opportunities if you play well.

 Q. I seem to recall that there have been some considerably low rounds for you here. 
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, I've had some low ones here. I've actually hit the ball pretty well there in the Pro-Am there today. Just trying to get to grips with these greens. They are quite tricky to read and quite flat surfaces sometimes, and you know, you've really got to pick the grain.
 But that was a good practise round and I'm feeling good about the week. I think the course is probably in as good of shape as I've ever seen it, and the weather is set good, so there's going to be some low scoring.

 Q. You're actually feeling good? You sound snuffly. 
 GRAEME McDOWELL: I feel good. I feel good. I do have a little bit of something going on, a little stuffed up, but no, generally I'm surprised how good I do feel for the fourth week on the bounce. And obviously from tomorrow onwards, I'm making a big punish now towards Dubai. 
 This week is important and next week is huge. From here on out, it's hard work and really trying to -- like I say, get the balance right between working hard, staying physically fresh and getting ready for next week, as well.

 Q. We saw that push with the victory at Valderrama, and then the move, third place last week, so the form is staying alive?
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, the form is good. I set out on these five weeks really to put a shine on the season. I could have easily have kicked back and put the feet up after The Ryder Cup and said you know what, a year. 
 But I wanted to come into this round and like I say, try to finish off strong, because that will make Christmas dinner taste even better if I can push Martin all the way to the line next week. Whether I go past him or not; just give myself the opportunity to win The Race to Dubai, considering the type of season he's had, feels good. 

 Q. You can see him in your sights, you can feel that you're reeling him in?
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, setting out on this run, I really had doubts whether I could get close to him. But to play as well as I did at Valderrama and win there, and obviously a third place last week, and you know, he has not had the best three weeks. 
 So you know, I figured if he kept playing the way he was playing, he would be uncatchable, but he's given me a little chance.

 Q. Into the horse racing? 
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, I'm going to it into. I like going across to Happy Valley. A cool beer and gambling, that's my scene, believe it or not.

 Q. In terms of the racing, I guess you've timed your run perfectly, on that home stretch. 
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, exactly. He was many lengths clear with a couple of fences to go, but like you say, we have a few couple furlongs left and I'm coming up the rail fast. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT