ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 9, 2010
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. How much does your finish change how you feel about your day? 
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Of course, I mean, you know, bogeying the last two holes, that always leaves a bit of a nasty taste in the mouth. To be honest that last nine holes is a little frustrating. I birdied one and horseshoed on 2 and lipped out on 3 and I had multiple chances, 3-putt at 6, birdied 7 and finished bogey, bogey.
 So it was kind of one of those days that could have been, but that's golf. I really can't complain at the minute. Things have generally been going in the hole lately. 

 Q. With all of the demands of last week and the media and stuff you've had to do this week, are you surprised to be going as well as you are? 
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Absolutely. I had zero expectations coming in here and to be honest, mentally, I have not put myself under any pressure. I've been out there trying to enjoy it and my dad and the guys I've been playing well and really just playing sort of free and loose golf. You know, it's actually worked pretty well. I putted well the last couple of days and really kept myself in there. I was really surprised to be going as well as I was perhaps.

 Q. Do you feel as if you can go out and have a real pop at it? What approach do you take? 
 GRAEME McDOWELL: St. Andrews, depending what the weather does obviously, St. Andrews has a low score out there. I'm going to have to go 64,65 to have any kind of shot at this thing tomorrow. The two bogeys at the end are even more so disappointing because it takes me out of touching distance of the leaders a little bit. No biggy. We'll go out there and give it a rip out there tomorrow. 

 Q. How pleased would you be for Lee if he were to get to No. 1?
 GRAEME McDOWELL: I would love to see Lee get to No. 1 in the world. I think it would cap what's been a great year for European golf, European Tour golf. To have him as No. 1, I believe -- I fully believe he's the No. 1 player in the world form-wise. If it was not for this injury, he would be No. 1 already, I truly believe that. But it would be huge for European golf and just give us a continued boost. 
 It's been a dominating year for us, and you know, that would really under score it. 

 Q. After the U.S. Open, you took a little bit of time to find your form again, are you quite pleased at how well you've gone on from The Ryder Cup?
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, of course my form was quite difficult to find after Pebble, because you know, I didn't really have any head attached at all, and it was very difficult to deal with my -- just what have I achieved, really? Mentally I was quite drained. I played quite a heavy schedule. I didn't really give myself time to rest and time to reflect but it was difficult, by the time I got to the US PGA, I was feeling pretty beat up. I had four weeks off and performed well in Austria and performed well in The Ryder Cup and performing well this week and trying to get myself in positions to be physically and mentally ready for a big, big end of the season and The Race to Dubai. 

 Q. What are the logistics of Bermuda?
 GRAEME McDOWELL: I think it's a three-day event, Monday Pro-Am, Tuesday, Wednesday, I think it's stroke play, I don't even know. I haven't even looked.

 Q. You're playing Portugal as well? 
 GRAEME McDOWELL: No, I'm not playing Portugal. I'm taking two weeks off with the Grand Slam in the middle of it. 
 Yeah, I'm looking forward to it, it's going to be a lot of fun to be out there with two of the major champions and Ernie Els, it's kind of a top-heavy prize fund and one of those, it's worth playing well and looking forward to it. A relaxing two weeks and a bit of time on the beach and semi-competitive golf; I'll be ready. I'm really looking forward to going to Valderrama this year, that will start off a run of five great events for me leading up to The Race to Dubai which I'm targeting as a very important run for me. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT