ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 8, 2010
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Contrasting conditions from yesterday, how chuffed are you with the 68 today?  
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, pleased with that. Like you say, I felt like we were on a different plant today. The sun was shining at Kingsbarns yesterday and today was like playing golf in the clouds.   
 As always at St. Andrews, it's a game of two nines. The outward nine, we got wind assisted most of the way out and you could make a bit of a score. On the way back in, the course was playing incredibly long. I've never seen some of the holes play as long as they were. The 13th, I hit driver, 3-wood short of the green and things like that. 17 was playing as tough as always, but 68, pretty pleased with it.   
  
  Q. What's it like being you this week, so many handshakes, so many pats on the back, tell us what it's like?   
 GRAEME McDOWELL: It's fantastic. It's nice to be me, I have to say. I'm really enjoying everything that's gone with the last three or four months. I mean, the response from people have been overwhelming. Especially when you come to a place like Scotland where people are so passionate about their golf and so educated and knowledgeable about the game.   
 You know, I've been getting great responses everywhere I go, as we hear from Captain Montgomerie behind, as well. We have been getting some amazing responses. Just everyone has just congratulated me and the Ryder Cup Team this week, means a lot to us.  
  
  Q. Does it feel like you're dreaming, in position to win The Race to Dubai, U.S. Open, Ryder Cup?   
 GRAEME McDOWELL: It does. It's been a very surreal year for me, and, you know, of course I've dreamed -- I've always had goals of achieving great things but had they eventually come along, you achieve two of your wildest dreams in the space of two months, it's crazy. I've been waking up in the middle of the night not being able to sleep, so excited about what's going on in my world.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT