THE RYDER CUP
October 4, 2010
Darren Clarke
Luke Donald
Graeme McDowell
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DARREN CLARKE: They played fantastic today, they really did. When you get a Ryder Cup coming down as tight as that, that's what it's all about. That's what you play for.  
  
  Q. What's it like trying to concentrate on your own match and knowing, in essence, it might not have anything to do in the end with your match?   
 DARREN CLARKE: That's the tough thing. You know, that's the tough thing in Ryder Cup. Sometimes when you have a lead, you look up at the board and you think he might do it, he might do it, and sometimes you might forget about your own game. We tried to talk to the guys last night and everybody playing their own game but the Americans came out too strong. They did it in Brookline a few years ago and they came out and played great on Sunday and they came out and played great again today.   
  
  Q. Luke, you did not play the last time because you were out with a wrist injury. How much does this mean to you? It has to be a tremendous feeling -- it was awfully close today.   
 LUKE DONALD: It was. You know, the hat's off to the Americans. They pushed us all the way. You know, Graeme's birdie on 16 was pretty special. You don't like to see what happened to Hunter on 17, but we'll take it anyway we can, and we got 14 1/2 points. It wasn't easy, but this is an amazing feeling, and let the party start.   
  
  Q. Thoughts on going back to Medinah next time, hometown for you, that's very nice. You will potentially go and be back there for your next Ryder Cup.   
 LUKE DONALD: Yeah, that would be great. Obviously it's a long way off. I'm going to celebrate this one.   
  
  Q. Lee Westwood watching the sell penetration, saying he has not had a drink in seven weeks.   
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, throwing it over Luke's head. What's wrong with the people.   
  
  Q. Knowing the significance of going out first, the captain told us this morning, in essence, it was the first three groups that were going to determine these matches better happens.   
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, very much so. We wanted to get off to a quick start again but Steve was just too strong for me today. I got off to a nice start but he was strong from the back nine, he was about 5- or 6-under, I felt a lot of points -- as all Ryder Cups are, very close. Incredible.   
 The onus was on the American side to come out and be aggressive and attack because they are three points behind but at the same point, it's not that much, not that big of a lead as it appears, especially when we need to win more points for starters because they need 14 to retain it.   
  
  Q. Can you give us a sense of what it's like for you as an athlete to be able to celebrate in front of your home fans?   
 LEE WESTWOOD: It's incredible. You never see scenes like that on the 17th green like that. It got a little bit out of control, but you can't blame be everybody. It's been such an up-and-down week with the weather and the scores and the U.S. Team were leading after the first session and we came back and they came back and we came back. It's been one of them Ryder Cups that's had everything.   
  
  Q. What's bigger, this or winning the U.S. Open at Pebble?   
 GRAEME McDOWELL: I don't know, they are different. This is crazy. I've never felt as nervous on a golf course in my life as I did out there. I mean, trying to do it for my 11 teammates, trying to do it for all these people, trying to do it for Monty, trying to do it for Europe, it's a lot of pressure, it's amazing. I wouldn't swap any of the two, but this feels amazing right now.   
  
  Q. What's the inspiration the team took from hearing Seve this week?   
 GRAEME McDOWELL: We tried to win it for Seve. Seve is everything that is European golf. He's our icon he's our hero. If he draws any positives, any energy from this win; we did it for him this week, we really did.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT