WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 6, 2010
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   GRAEME McDOWELL: To be honest, I just kind of missed a few too many fairways today, just put myself a little bit out of position. I wasn't missing them by much but just sort of a few yards here and there, just making it difficult to make birdies. I just didn't scramble very well. I kind of left myself too much, eight, ten feet kind of a little bit and just really didn't make a lot of putts. Yeah, a bit disappointed with 73. I kind of had it going around the turn and just finished badly.

 Q. How about the driver, is it still working for you?
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, I drove it good again today, but like I say, instead of catching edges of fairways I was just missing them by a couple yards here and there. The rough is just thick enough to pose a little bit of a problem out there. It was one of those runs that could have been 67 and could have been -- well, it's a 73. 

 Q. You seemed pretty confident based on what you said last week in Ireland about your chances at next week and so on because of the confidence you got from the Open. Do you feel that way still?
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, I feel really good about my game. 

 Q. Do you feel that way still?
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, I feel really good about my game I have to say. Like I say, just played the last five, six holes badly, but yesterday was probably the best I've played in about six weeks. Everything feels like it's working pretty well, so I was a little scrappy out there today, and like I say, just didn't quite get on top of things.
 All in all the game is in great shape, and this week is a great week to get ready for next week really. I just need to get my putter heated up. I putted badly. I putted badly at the Open. I putted badly last week in Ireland, and I just played like that out there today really. Just need to work hard on the putting stroke this weekend, and that's what I did really well at Pebble, holed out well, and I feel like I've used them all up since. But I just need to get back to rolling the ball well on the greens. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT