3 IRISH OPEN
July 30, 2010
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   GRAEME McDOWELL: Early morning, golf course is there for the taking but the way the pins are tucked away, they are tricky. Although Ross Fisher is not finding them too tricky back there, but impressive score from him. 
 I've just had a less on the last two days on how to get the ball in the hole from the two boys there. I struggled horrendously on the greens and I had to stand there and watch chip-ins and bombs and all that kind of stuff going on. At times I felt like I was playing better golf, but the score certainly didn't reflect that and golf is not all about fairways and greens, you have to get the ball in the hole, too. 
 Frustrating from my point of view, probably amplifies my frustrations because I hit it okay. Just putted abysmally the last two days, kind of similar to how I putted at St. Andrews. I need to have a look at that and see what's going on. The greens are tricky and the pins are tucked away but hopefully I can slip in for the weekend and get a couple of rounds under my belt and get ready to go the next few weeks.

 Q. Do you think Ross Fisher was a bit unlucky? He's out there playing at the moment and it's got quite difficult the last couple of holes; the opportunity of going for a 59, the weather seems to consider conspired against him. 
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, 16 was tricky, the wind came up and was right into the wind. 17 is a tough pin and 18 is no pushover obviously. Yeah, the conditions are conspiring against him a little bit, but what was he, 11-under par? I'm sure he's not too annoyed. 
 Great score. It was beautiful this morning between the light showers, and like I said the course was there for the taking if you got the putter hot, and fair play to him. I hope he tries to birdie the last here. 

 Q. Entertaining on the last? 
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, like I say, you've got to respect that guy behind me there. He knows how to scramble. He knows how to handle himself. Like I say it was frustrating for me because I felt like I played okay golf, but it was a lesson. I got a lesson out there the last two days on how to get the ball up-and-down and I need to take heed of these lessons. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT