DUBAI DUTY FREE IRISH OPEN HOSTED BY THE RORY FOUNDATION
July 7, 2018
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Give us your assessment of round three.  
GRAEME McDOWELL: More of the same, really.  Just frustrating a little bit.  I actually did kind of what I said I was going to do yesterday, which is go out there and hit some more fairways today but couldn't seem to make them count, unfortunately.  Conditions were fairly benign again this morning, but this golf course continues to elude me.  I've been here, you know, in the past and don't remember it being quite this tricky.   
The firmness of the golf course is making it very difficult to keep the ball in play off the tee and stay out of these bunkers and it's also making it very difficult to get close to the flags, as well.  Scoring is tricky, even though we couldn't really be having this golf course any easier than we're having it.  Like I say, continues to frustrate.   
 Q.  Disappointed, I'm sure, that it stalled in and around the turn when you were going pretty well?  
GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, it's happened to me on the ninth green the last two days runs now where I've 3-putted from close-ish range today and missed a short one, and then drove it in the bunker on 11 and that stalled the round, really.  Felt like I was battling a little bit from there and couldn't seem to get it done.  Hit a wedge over the back of last there and made bogey to finish my day off, as this rain is coming on.   
I felt like it was one of those mornings if you could have posted an Andy Sullivan-style round, 3- or 4-under par would have gotten you back into the meat of the tournament.  I'm going to be out early tomorrow morning and just going to have to go as low as we possibly can.   
 Q.  Staying positive?  
GRAEME McDOWELL: Trying to.  Trying to.  My game is close but just a cylinder missing at the minute.  Not quite sure what it is.  I've been playing a lot of golf the last three or four months.  Perhaps it's a little fatigue in there.  When something like 9 or 11 happens to me, knocks the steam out of me and the fight is not there.   
We'll be back tomorrow morning.  Love to finish with a low one here and take some momentum into the summer because like I say, game's not far away.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT