THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 5, 2010
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Talk us through what happened on 18. 
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, it all happened so fast obviously. Hitting out of the water is not something we get much practice at. I just felt that perhaps I had turned on my club on the way back, as I made my backswing and as soon as I did it, I kind of felt like something was up, and obviously I mentioned it to you (Dottie Pepper). A ruling like that, it's always very difficult to know what's going on, but the guy showed me it inside and I've had a pretty good look at it, as well. I'm pretty happy that it was me that caused the water to move and it was a two-shot penalty. 
 A bit of a bittersweet end to the day, but I'm glad it's Friday. Could be Sunday and it would hurt a lot more. I've got all weekend to repair the damage, and I'm playing well. 

 Q. Talk us through the highlights, now that we have gotten over the low points of the day. You played an awfully good round of golf. 
 GRAEME McDOWELL: I played good today. I hit it in the fairways. The course was a little more straightforward today than it was yesterday. I'm liking these greens. A lot of pitchmarks and stuff. This course gets a lot of play; wonderful place, and I'm seeing the lines well and my feet feel good and I'm making some putts. 
 I played lovely today. Driving has been a little in and out. I didn't drive it well yesterday. That tee shot on 18, that was a horror swing; so I was making six at best when I thought it went in the water. Took my seven, go hit some drivers here and get ready for a good weekend. 

 Q. Certainly a run of emotions on that last hole, the only loose shoot you hit all day was the tee shot and I thought you were going to escape after that brilliant second shot. But given that second shot you immediately came up to Dottie Pepper and myself and said, "I think I clipped the water on my backswing." Run through the whole process. 
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Sure, hitting out of the water is not something we get a lot of practice at for sure. It all happened so fast. Right before I took the club head away, I felt like I had just caught a tiny drop of water that made my backswing. And I wasn't 100 percent sure of the ruling but I was pretty confident that it was going to be a penalty of some description. 
 The guys from NBC took me inside, showed me the video replay and there's a pretty big ripple there as I took the club away, and it is what it is. It's a disappointing way to end the day, but, hey, it could be worse, it could be Sunday. I've got all weekend to repair the damage. It's disappointing. I played great today but 67 is a pretty good return on this golf course.
 I holed some nice putts but I also hit some putts that didn't go in, as well. I hit some good putts that didn't go in. These greens are a very tricky and there's a little bit of grain on them. I'm seeing the lines pretty well, my speed is good and I'm giving myself a ton of chances. I did, as well, yesterday, give myself a lot of chances. 
 I'm confident going into the weekend. Three off the lead is always a decent place to be on a Friday evening. Like I say, it's a weird way to finish, but that's what the Rules of Golf are therefore, they are there for everyone's protection and sometimes you get on the wrong side of them and sometimes they are on the wrong side of them. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT