THE VIVENDI TROPHY WITH SEVERIANO BALLESTEROS
September 27, 2009
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   GRAEME McDOWELL: The more blue I saw on the board, and my game was tighter, I thought this is going to be a bit more important than perhaps we first thought, and let's get the job done. Thankfully I did. 

 Q. What do you think has been the deciding factor in this victory?
 GRAEME McDOWELL: We have ten, young, hungry players that are right up for it. 
 Paul McGinley has done an unbelievable job this week motivating the guys, keeping everybody in the loop, asking the guys where they want to play, who they want to play with. He's been a really, really good motivator. You know, they have the best team on paper, no doubt about it, but we were up for it. We wanted to come here and play as a team and play together, and we probably had ten guys who are really good friends before this week and we really played together as a team. 
 We played some phenomenal golf and it's going to be a sweet victory. I hope the guys can turn some of the games down around the list and see if we can really post a big victory because that's what we deserve. That's how well we've played this week. 

 Q. You've played again extremely well, so you must be very proud to bring this 15th point to your team?
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, very happy, very happy. The Europeans were rallying a bit with us this afternoon. Feels very good. Obviously a good friend of mine, Rory, winning the first point and me securing the second point, so it's a great day's work. The front nine holes especially I played some great golf today. Robert Karlsson is a fantastic player, No. 1 in Europe last year. I realised I had my work cut out today and it was a very sweet victory. 

 Q. You've played on your own really well, but the team you've made with Rory was just incredible. Would that be a good team for The Ryder Cup?
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Well, let's hope so. I think we have both got a lot of work to do between now and Wales next year. If we both make The Ryder Cup Team, I would love to tee it up on the first tee with them at Celtic Manor. Like you say it's been a great pairing this week, we won three of our four points and both of us won our singles. 
 Rory is one of the most talented young players in the world right now and it's been a pleasure to play alongside him. I've been very happy with my own game this week, four from five points I'm very pleased with and the team victory which is more important. We have played together as a team this week and we have ten guys who are really, really up for this. 

 Q. You obviously carried your form on from Valhalla last year this week. 
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, team golf has been something that's always appealed to me for some reason, I don't know what it is. I love match play. I've always loved match play. And when you play together with nine great friends and playing together as a team, I mean, I don't know what it is about match play. I'm sure this guy feels the same way. You can kind of play more aggressively. I think it suits maybe my type of game. 
 I played unbelievable the first eight holes today. I was 6-under par. Robert hung in there, hung in there. When I went back to 1-up, I looked at the board and there was so much blue on there. I thought, you know, I've got to get the job done here today. 
 There's no point, we are not going to hide about and wait for the guys behind us. We have got to win. Rory pulled his match out of the bag obviously and I made a mistake on 14 and Robert threw a couple of mistakes back at me 15 and 16. 
 So very happy to get the job done. Great team win for us today this week. The guys have played fantastic. Paul McGinley has been unbelievable as a captain, great motivator. He has really put the team together very well and he's had us up for it every day.

 Q. Do you see Paul as a future Ryder Cup Captain perhaps? 
 GRAEME McDOWELL: I think Paul would make a great captain. He's very methodical in his preparation and he understands what players need and what players want. I think he will make a fantastic Ryder Cup Captain. I think Monty is going to be very much in the same mold. I think Paul and Monty are very intelligent and articulate guys who will put a great time together and motivate the guys well and can communicate with the guys on a personal level and like I say, know what the players want, and that's the important part. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT