THE VIVENDI TROPHY WITH SEVERIANO BALLESTEROS
September 24, 2009
Graeme McDowell
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   RORY McILROY: It was good. Paul wanted us to go out and do a job and put a bit of red on the board early and we were able to do that. Got off to a really good start, and never let them back in it really.   
 So we both sort of dovetailed pretty well, pitched in whenever the other was maybe not in for birdie or whatever. Yeah it was a good fourball display, and you know, we had a lot of fun out there which is the main thing, and you know, able to get a good point.   
  
  Q. You played a lot together; you must have known that you would compliment each other and it would be a good partnership.   
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah we practiced a lot together. We are a very good combination, both very good driver of the ball, Rory is obviously a little longer but we hit our irons very similar yardages so we can kind of bounce off each other.   
 We really dominated the game today. We were never really out of control. If he could have made a few putts early on we would have really been in control. The guys played as well as they could and we took advantage. Like.  
 Rory said it was good to go out first and get some red on the board. We talked a lot in the team room this week about momentum and getting off to a fast start. Team golf is all about momentum, so I think we've done a good job today.   
  
  Q. Having played in one of them, a future Ryder Cup combination?   
 GRAEME McDOWELL: I would certainly like this to be a future combination down the years. There's nothing I'd like better than to play with this man in The Ryder Cup. I think we certainly have great chances to be on the team next year and it's a good chance obviously to show that -- obviously we are great friends, but that we can gel together on the golf course. You know, that's key to a partnership. Obviously you've both got to play well as well. Doesn't matter how good of friends you are, you have to play the golf, as well, and we showed that today.   
  
  Q. Did you ask to go out first?  
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Paul asked us if we would like to go out first. I'm not sure what he said to Rory but Paul's been fantastic. He really has been talking to all the players, really getting their opinions and feelings as to where they want to play down the order.   
 He asked me, would I be happy going out first and leading the team out and I think he had a lot of confidence in the partnership. So I was up for it and I'm sure Rory was up for it, too.   
  
  Q. Do you see this being the start of a long partnership?   
 RORY McILROY: I hope so. Yeah, it was great to get off to -- we got 100 percent record, so we'll try and keep that up.   
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Clarkey and Westwood might have something to say about that.   
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, this is true.   
 I have no idea, hopefully in the future next year this Wales and looking further on than that, you know, as Graeme said, we get on great on the golf course. We gelled well together and our games do compliment one another. As long as we stay fit and healthy, I see no reason why we can't have a good partnership for the next ten years.  
  
  Q. With Clarke and Westwood, you obviously play fourballs a lot together.   
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, we do, the last few months at the U.S. Open and US PGA, we had a couple grudge matches if you want to call us that, and the two boys beat us up pretty good, but obviously we were a bit more prepared and a bit more serious about it today. We were not taking quite as much schtick as the two lads we were playing. It's always hard to play against Clarke and Westy when they are on form.   
 But watching Rory's game develop over the last couple of years, he's a pleasure to play alongside.   
  
  Q. Today was it a case of Rory's good iron play and your good play --  
 GRAEME McDOWELL: One of the keys Paul has been trying to bang into us a little bit especially in better-ball play is two balls is always better than one. I think there's always a chance in better-ball if one guy hits it in the fairway, the other guy can give it a lash. One of the keys today is we both drove the ball very well and both made the putts at the right time and just kind of kept the pressure on.   
  
  Q. On a frivolous note, have you both had hair makeovers? You both look different somehow.   
 GRAEME McDOWELL: No hats. That's what it is. Lack of head ware.   
 RORY McILROY: I got a little trim before Switzerland but that was it.   
  
  Q. It looks black --  
 RORY McILROY: What are you trying to suggest? My hair is this colour. I think because it's a little shorter, obviously when it's a bit longer the sunlight gets a bit of it more. I'm not quite like my dad yet, he's a true silver fox.   
  
  Q. Søren's ball on the third, you saw that chance to do that?   
 RORY McILROY: I was amazed he didn't mark it. We had a bit of a giggle about it and I holed the putt as well.   
 GRAEME McDOWELL: We were talking about it, it was a key point in the match, as well. We had taken our chance on 2 and all of a sudden we are in trouble on 3 and it was very funny, actually.   
 RORY McILROY: I said as soon as I hit it, I said, "Oh, thanks, Søren."   
 GRAEME McDOWELL: I returned the favour on 8. My ball was directly behind the hole and Rory gave me a nudge and said, "You're not going to mark that." And Søren was over his bunker shot. Thankfully he didn't need it.   
  
  Q. It was not a lucky start, but fortune wasn't with you on the first --  
 GRAEME McDOWELL: I hit a decent little shot in there and made the putt from 20 feet.   
 RORY McILROY: I was going to hole mine.   
 GRAEME McDOWELL: My partner was inside.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT