PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 15, 2009
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Good week so far. How would you characterize just what you experienced over three rounds, because you've been in the thick of it?  
 GRAEME McDOWELL: You know, I would just say the golf course has been very changeable. It's been tough to get very comfortable out there. It's been up-and-down gusting a little bit. It's been hard to get comfortable. It's a tricky golf course.   
 Not too demanding off the tee. Although I haven't driven the ball particularly well. It's tough going into the greens because if you miss in the wrong places the rough around the greens is particularly nasty and I certainly haven't scrambled that well when I got out of position.  
  
  Q. This is something you've spoken about before in major championships that the difference has been in the past your short game between being someone who really could be in the Top 10 on a regular basis. Is that still the case?  
 GRAEME McDOWELL: I've been disappointed with my short game a little bit this week. But we're talking high tough shots here, not straightforward stuff. I putted pretty well this week, which has been nice. I'm continuing to improve on the greens. I'm not getting down on myself on my short game this week. It's been particularly difficult. I have to say the rough, it grows in all sorts of different directions and you get some horrible lies.  
  
  Q. Do you feel you're so close to becoming a major player who cannot just aim for a Top 10 finish but aim for the Top 5 and just be there for the last nine holes and you're getting close to that?  
 GRAEME McDOWELL: I'm getting close. I'm just trying to improve, really. I see this -- I probably don't have a chance to win tomorrow so I see this as another great opportunity to post a great finish in a top tournament.   
 I guess Wanamaker trophies and all those thoughts are out of my mind now. I'm just trying to build and have a good day tomorrow, move on and looking forward to the rest of the season, continuing to play some good golf.  
  
  Q. What is a good day tomorrow? A nice round in the 60s obviously is a good day, but a good finish for you and a good day for you, what is that?  
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Depending on what the weather has in store for us, if it's another blustery day for us, anything in the red is a pretty good effort. Like I said, the wind is gusting and depends on where the U.S. PGA puts the pins. I thought they set up the course very well this week. I've enjoyed it. I'm going to go out and play tomorrow the way I played today and see where that leaves me and take a lot of good stuff away from the week.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT