PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2009
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You had a great chance for a while there and you were in the lead and obviously things didn't turn out that way towards the end of the round, but what happened out there to get you in the lead and then what happened after that?  
 GRAEME McDOWELL: It got off to an interesting start. I kind of rode my luck a little bit, missed a few fairways, got away with it, holed a couple of putts. Caught up with me a little bit in the middle of the round a little bit.   
 Unbelievably difficult out there today. Every time I seemed to miss a green, I seemed to miss it in the wrong spot and get a horrible lie and I just got on the bogey train out there a little bit which wasn't great.   
 You know, leading tournament on Friday, it's neither here nor there, you know, kind of jockeying for position and trying to give myself a chance come Sunday afternoon and I'm certainly not out of that.   
 Obviously the guy at the top of the leaderboard, he's a pretty good front-runner. I feel like I'm playing well enough go post a number tomorrow and give myself a chance on Sunday. Yeah, I'm disappointed with 75 with a good start, but room for a low one tomorrow.   
  
  Q. When you got into the lead at 4-under after six holes in your round, did you look at the leaderboard and see that you were in the lead with Woods and Harrington?  
 GRAEME McDOWELL: I wasn't really too focused on the leaderboards. I was really just trying so hard to control my ball out there, it was extremely difficult. Fairways and greens were priorities, like I say I wasn't falling in love with the leaderboard. I was really just trying to get my job done and I played some really nice stuff, even when I was on the bogey train, I felt like I was hitting some decent shots. Got myself out of position a couple of times and paid the price.  
  
  Q. You had a lot of experience in the majors now, over the last six majors, you've been Top-20 four times, you have a chance here to get Top-10 at least and maybe even beyond that, what would satisfy you?   
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, a Top-10, Top-5, something along those lines would be a nice weekend performance, but at the minute I'm just trying to regroup. Like I say it was a tough day, very mentally demanding, and like I say trying to regroup for tomorrow. Try and go post 4- or 5-under par tomorrow and see where that leaves me come Sunday.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT