PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2009
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Must be lovely to compete in any round of a major championship without a bogey but also to come in with a 70, very competitive?  
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, I hit 16 greens in reg today and felt like I left a few out there on the greens, but they are a bit chewed up, a bit tough to make putts on, not as pure as Firestone last week.  
 But I enjoyed the way I played for sure and gave myself plenty of chances and have to take the positive as way and build on that for the weekend.   
  
  Q. You were probably the last man off the practice ground Tuesday night; is there something that you've worked on that's clicked?  
 GRAEME McDOWELL: I haven't been 100% happy with my full swing of late, just chipping away at it, just waiting for that one little thing, that one little cog to fall into place and I feel very, very close to playing well. I hit a lot golf shots out there today, and I've got a bit of work to do this afternoon just to try and bed some changes in that I'm making, but I'm close.  
  
  Q. You've had this sort of mixed season, a slow start but when you come to a major, certainly you've been in great form.   
 GRAEME McDOWELL: I feel like my season, the results haven't shown, maybe some of the good golf I've played this season. It's been -- obviously I'm frustrated and disappointed at the lack of results, but I guess you've got to focus more on the process and that's really what I'm trying to do.  
 I'm excited about the rest of the season because I'm feeling fit and healthy and I feel like I'm starting to play well. So I've got a lot to play for here from September onwards, obviously with the Ryder Cup points kicking in and I'm really focusing hard on those. I was really coming in this week focusing hard and looking forward to the weekend.  
  
  Q. You're getting used to running in the front of the pack in a major now and there is a good start; how about pushing into the Top-10 and beyond?  
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, for sure, I said Top-10 in a major was certainly one of my goals. I've given myself three great chances at it, not quite got the job done. I'll give myself another chance this week after a great start again. I just have to keep the accelerator down. This golf course, obviously it's a real test, it's a real brute length-wise. I've got to really try and stay patient with the driver, keep it in play and just trust my iron play and chipping and putting really.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT