U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 22, 2009
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, it's kind of a relief it's all over. But that wasn't quite what I had in mind, last round 74. Left some putts out there, missed a few fairways on the back. Didn't have my A-Game this week, especially off the tee.   
 Kind of fell off for me a little bit. The wind came up. It was tricky right there. Looking back, obviously I've been ruining some chances. Had a chance to win this tournament.   
  
  Q. The greens, back and forth, more speed than others.   
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, some of the greens are better than others. That was affecting the speed of them a lot and I felt like I lost my speed around the turn today.   
 I really kind of felt defensive on the greens. I left a couple short.   
 It wasn't a great putting day for me.  
  
  Q. You didn't feel you played your best game. You've got to be proud the way you got it around and doesn't seem you're far off.   
 GRAEME McDOWELL: It's very close to playing good. Got out there, scrambled well. Friday, Saturday, especially hung in there, and that was a trickier day.   
 Sunday was a measure. And it was more difficult to do. And maybe my game caught up with me a little.  
  
  Q. Final thing. When you look back on the week after you have time to assess, you're moving up that ladder in major championship play.   
 GRAEME McDOWELL: You know, the more times you put yourself in the mix, the more experience you can gain from that, and you can kind of learn from that experience and sort of analyze the weaknesses in your game. Work on those and come back.   
 I want to win majors very soon in my career, and I'm slowly becoming the player I want to become. So just got to keep working at it.  
  
  Q. How do you recover from a week that's been so long and so tough like this? If I heard you correctly you're going to play again?  
 GRAEME McDOWELL: I'm not playing this week. Plenty of rest, obviously. Just try to get some rest, and I don't play for a couple of weeks. It's like a big week off this week just to recharge the batteries, really. It's been a fun week. Pretty demanding week and obviously mentally demanding. And glad to be through it and relieved it's over, but disappointed at the same time. A week off for rest for me.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT