BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 23, 2009
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   GRAEME McDOWELL: I'm struggling around, I have to say. Walking is very uncomfortable, quite a lot of pain out there. I've got a pretty tight sort of footballer-type strap on my foot and ankle and I'm on some painkillers. Thankfully it's not affecting my golf swing as much. That's the frustrating part; I'm hitting the ball really nicely but it is painful shot-to-shot and it's affecting my concentration a little bit.

 Q. You had the scan on Thursday, and essentially it's no stress fracture which is good news. 
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Essentially it is going to take time and it's going to take a bit of rest and I'm going to stay off my feet as much as possible. 
 Keen to play golf at the minute, this week, next week, and this is very experimental this week and see how the strap and painkillers work out, and hopefully I'll be okay by next week. 
 Obviously happy enough with my effort this morning. Played, like I say, it's not affecting my golf swing, and hitting some decent shots and nice to shoot 68 this morning. 

 Q. Is that all the advice that you can give, there's no further treatment?
 GRAEME McDOWELL: There's compression, icing, like I said, painkillers, and that's generally it. Stay off my feet as much as possible. It's kind of one of those frustrating ones, it's a tear and just has to heal itself, not much I can do about it, just soldier on.
 It's really just the forward flexing in the foot. Any time there's weight going forward on to the foot, especially coming downhill, that's no fun. Walking uphill is actually heavenly to be honest with you. When I'm standing still or standing over the ball, it's never putting any sort of pressure on it or pushing off on it, that's when it becomes difficult.
 When I get to the ball, I'm fine. No problems with my golf swing. It's just a little painful between shots. But, hey, you know, just need to soldier on. It's frustrating for me right now, but this will pass hopefully.
 I didn't think me being front of the field was maybe the ideal scenario with the way I has hobbling around the pace but we managed to keep in front of the boys. A lot of fun playing with Ernie, good crowd and well supported as usual and BMW have done a great job. The sun has come out and the weather has been kind to us, so it's been a great week. 

 Q. Looks a little more gentle than it was the second day. 
 GRAEME McDOWELL: We got nine holes of some flat, calm stuff. Wind was picking up on the back nine.
 As usual, difficult to work out where it was coming from. You're never really quite sure what's going on sometimes. The guys have got a very similar day in store. The course is firming up, it's playing short, but, at the same time, it's tough to get a ball close to the pin because the greens are firm. Greens are nice out there this morning. I have to say I rolled the ball a bit better and interesting to see what happens this afternoon. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT