BALLANTINE'S CHAMPIONSHIP
April 23, 2009
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MICHAEL GIBBONS: Henrik, thanks for joining us. Maybe start us off with your overall impression of a great first round 68. 
 HENRIK STENSON: I was happy with the day obviously, and coming back strong on the back nine; shot 4-under on the front nine, which was my back nine. And it's always good to take it home in 32, and I think it's a good start for me. 

 Q. Any particular highlights today?
 HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, I birdied 17, and got a fine piece of whisky there, 17-year-old Ballantine's, so that's obviously a highlight. I don't know, if Jude is going to drink ten per cent, then I'm going to drink 90 per cent, might be a rough evening.
 No, it's always nice to make a birdie there, and the four birdies on the front nine is always nice and 32 is always taken on a nine. 

 Q. Is there any extra pressure on you this week as the highest-ranked player in the field?
 HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, I think when you are coming into a tournament and you are among the top players, you always feel like there's a little bit of pressure on you to perform. I'm no different. 
 I expect myself to perform, and 68 is a good start, so I'm pleased with that, and I'm looking forward to the next three days and going to try my best to have a really good tournament. 

 Q. Right now the weather is beautiful, so I would like to know, what would you think the winner will record in terms of under par? 
 HENRIK STENSON: Well, I think if the weather would stay like today, you know, it might be creeping close to 20-under, something like that perhaps. But you know, 15-, 20-under. 
 But if we are expecting some strong winds and cold weather and so on in the weekend, it's obviously going to bring the scores back. So like Graeme said yesterday at the gala dinner, he took his chances on 12-under, if it was going to be tougher weather, and with the course playing a little bit tougher with the rough and so on. 
 We'll see. Between 15 and 20-under, but as the wind comes up, it might come back down a little bit. 
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: Henrik, well played today. Good luck the rest of the week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT