OMEGA MISSION HILLS WORLD CUP
November 27, 2008
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   GRAEME McDOWELL: Tough finish at last but the today as way tricky day. The wind was all over the place and we gelled well really. I didn't do my part on the last by hitting the tee shot in the water. Tricky little finish, but today was just about pocking ourselves and able to position ourselves quite nicely. 
 I think this tournament is mostly about the foursomes from what I gather. Obviously it's my first one, but Paul has obviously got quite a lot of experience in this tournament, yeah, we are both disappointed with the finish but a lot of good golf out there.

 Q. We would not normally concentrate on a negative, but in this sort of format, I suppose you don't expect to have any blips on the card, do you?
 GRAEME McDOWELL: You don't expect to be making bogeys, certainly not double-bogeys. You know, like I said, I kind of dumped it a little bit with my tee shot, and Paul had the bail-out of the right and pulled an awful lie, and an awful lie for his third shot, as well. I tried my best to make five off my second ball, but like I say we are not going to focus on the negatives. 
 We made a lot of good birdies out there and a lot of good stuff going on, both playing nicely. Two tough games of foursomes to come, and another better-ball, and I think our games are very well suited for foursomes.

 Q. In general terms, how are you enjoying this day in the World Cup?
 GRAEME McDOWELL: It's fantastic. It's a great event. We don't get a chance to play team golf very often and something I do enjoy. Obviously have a great partner this week and we know each other's games very well. 
 We are enjoying every second of it out there. Obviously the last was a little painful, but generally enjoyed the day. The golf course was tricky, firmed up a little bit and the wind was gusting all over the place and it was quite difficult to pull clubs out out there at times.

 Q. I take it does have a different feeling, turning and having a partner on 18. 
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, means that you can have the odd hole off which is nice. When your partner hits in there close, you get to take the rest of the hole off and conserve the energy a little bit. It's a lot of fun. 
 Team golf is different. You don't have to finish every hole yourself so it takes the pressure off a little bit and it's nice to throw in a few birdies and hit in a nice eagle here or there, and you can play a little bit more aggressively, as well. 
 So when Paul has hit a good shot in there, obviously I can be a little bit more aggressive and take shots on a little bit more and try to hole bunker shots and chip shots, and it's a good format. 

 Q. I think most people have said that it is about fun, until the nitty-gritty perhaps on Sunday, or certain moments, it's about being a bit more relaxed at the end of the season despite the importance of the event. 
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, I think better-ball format, no one is really able to run away with it. No one is ever going to sort of go five, six, seven shots ahead really. Foursomes is the key. Get out there tomorrow, play as solidly as we played today, knock it around a few under par, and keep ourselves well in the tournament. Like I say, a couple shots at the last are gone, but 7-under par I would have probably taken on the 10th tee today.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT