PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 16, 2008
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. What club?  
 GRAEME McDOWELL: 9-iron. My caddie tried to talk me out of it. It was right on the level for me. It was 149 yards, a bit of a horse 9-iron, but perfect really. Ken didn't like it but I did.   
  
  Q. Great sight, isn't it?  
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, it's always nice to get off to a nice start. Obviously made the turn at level par, and Alvaro, saw he shot 6-under, so thought I'd better get going. The first nine, my timing was a bit out and just skanked it around and made a few putts and hit it much better on the last nine holes actually.   
  
  Q. Guys always say, plenty of gas still left in the tank this time of year?  
 GRAEME McDOWELL: To be honest with you I think it's a funny time of year because I think if guys make a couple bogeys, it's easy for their head to go down. Everyone is tired and it's been a long year and everyone is ready for some rest.   
 If you don't get off to a fast start on these kind of weeks, it's hard to find the energy to compete. Obviously to get off to a good start, it's good for the energy and gets the adrenaline going and keeps you going for the week.  
 Guys have had a long year and there's no doubt everyone is running on fumes at this point. This is my first time, so I realised obviously the scoring was very low last year and the course has been toughened up substantially and the rough is penal in places. You've got to hit fairways if you are to have any chance out there.   
 It's quite fair, obviously super thick in places but a real premium on accuracy obviously.  
  
  Q. 5-under, you have taken your game to a new level?  
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Hope so.  
  
  Q. Do you know what you're expecting?   
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Well, it's just been a great season. I'm hopefully -- it's important for me to continue building on what's got me here. I've got to keep doing the things and keep working hard and doing the things that have got me to this point in the season. I'm not going to be sitting back resting on my laurels. I want to keep kicking on, and get ready for the off-season and come out firing next year. We all know how fickle this game is. You have to keep grinding away at it really.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT