QUINN INSURANCE BRITISH MASTERS
September 26, 2008
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   GRAEME McDOWELL: Wait and see. It's going to be very close.   
  
  Q. Have to wait till tomorrow to find out.   
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Absolutely, 100 per cent correct.   
  
  Q. You don't like missing cuts, though, do you.   
 GRAEME McDOWELL: I'll probably excuse myself this one. No, of course I don't, no. A bit rusty and didn't really play my best golf the last couple of days. I thought I hung in there well and hit a good shot at the last and just run over the back.   
 The greens had me a bit confused really. They were quick downhill and slow uphill. They are tough and very undulating obviously.   
 I'll be disappointed to miss obviously. A couple more rounds this week would do me nicely getting ready for next week.  
  
  Q. Could have taken the week off but decided to play.   
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, figured I'd be going through this same feeling next week again so it's good to get it out of the system I suppose. I don't really know how to deal with this sort of come-down feeling and something I've got to get better at in the future. So playing this week and getting it out of the system this week and be ready to fire on all cylinders them week.  
  
  Q. When you're in quiet moments by yourself, still thinking about last week?  
 GRAEME McDOWELL: It's hard not to, because every player I meet, every caddie I meet, every buddy I meet sort of asks me about it and sort of saying well played and stuff. It's tough to obviously forget about it.   
 At some point I'll move on from it. Like I say, I hope I'll scrape in for the weekend. I'd like to play another couple rounds just to generally get my game ready for next week. Today I felt a bit more rested but actually didn't play particularly good today.   
  
  Q. If you don't play the last two rounds, what will you do to prepare for next week?  
 GRAEME McDOWELL: I'll just go home and rest and practise a little bit back in Portrush. I've got a company day Monday and I'll be in Scotland Monday night ready to go Tuesday morning.  
  
  Q. Safe to say you haven't gone through anything like this before?  
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Of course not. Obviously it's a massive high last week. Obviously it's disappointing and a bit of an anti-climax in the end but it was a massive high from my own point of view. It was a new experience and obviously a massive adrenaline rush for three days.   
 You know, I played my heart out really and gave it a hundred and 20 per cent and really obviously playing four of the games, pretty tired. A bit of partying Sunday night, a bit of letting off steam and you come here and you feel pretty tired and it's tough to get yourself back up and going again.   
 I'm not saying last week was tough because of the defeat, but it's tough to get over such an adrenaline rush for a few days.  
  
  Q. Lee, what he's doing, leading, what's the difference, temperament or more Ryder Cups?   
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, probably more Ryder Cups and he's learned how to deal with it a lot better than I have. What's he played, four or five Ryder Cups? He's obviously learned how to deal with things a little bit better than I have. I'm not standing here saying it's a tough thing to deal with or anything. It's a great thing to deal with.   
  
  Q. But you gave so much last week, didn't you.   
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Like I say, it was my first one and I sort of really enjoyed it and put my heart into it. Yeah, you have a little bit of a high from it for a few days. Like I say, all of my friends and peers and colleagues are congratulating me and patting me on the back.   
 Obviously I felt like I had won a tournament last week, just the reaction I've been getting from people. So obviously we didn't win, but it's been a great response from the guys. I've really enjoyed it, and like I say, it gives me a lot of personal satisfaction.   
 Obviously I'm trying to move on. I'm trying to get ready for the rest of the season because that's important to me. I've had a great year but I really want to try and finish stronger if I possibly can, and obviously I wasn't wanting to write this week off, but had that potential.   
 Physically I'm not there but definitely mentally my focus -- if I was an 11 focus last week, I've probably had 5 out of 10 focus last two days. I was trying my best to get myself going out there but never could really get myself a kick start. Made plenty of birdies the last two days but made too many silly errors and too many silly mistakes and that's the case when I'm not 100 per cent focused.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT