THE EUROPEAN OPEN
July 6, 2008
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   GRAEME McDOWELL: It wasn't the start I dreamed of. It was the start which woke me up in the middle of the night. Conditions were really brutal for the first 11 holes and four over for the first four was not what I had in mind at all. I cracked the whip and got me going and I managed to make a couple of birdies and snapped out of it. 
 I had to reassess at the turn as suddenly I realise Garcia was having a great day and guys were going past me. Not only was Ross out of reach but second and third were becoming a battle for me. But I was pleased how I turned it around and dug deep and pleased with how I played those last 13, 14 holes.

 Q. It is a good year so far?
 GRAEME McDOWELL:I am moving in the right direction and have said that a lot in the last few months. I was disappointed not to give it a better run today but Ross played fantastic golf these last two days, drove the ball great and holed every putt he needed to. He would have been a tough man to catch even if I had been on my game the last couple of days.

 Q. How are you feeling ahead of the next two weeks?
 GRAEME McDOWELL:I am feeling great. I am excited about my schedule as I am playing Loch Lomond, Open, Bridgestone and PGA, the next four tournaments I play are the biggest on the planet and I am feeling fit and well and playing well, putting in performances on a regular basis and I am excited.

 Q. The form is running deep?
 GRAEME McDOWELL:It is good. The weather was tough and shame we didn't get a chance to play good birdie golf this weekend although Ross didn't take any notice.

 Q. What does it say about you mentally being able to turn it around?
 GRAEME McDOWELL:I have worked hard not to get disappointed, frustrated and when you are four over after four trying to win a tournament it is very hard not to get down but I have a very good caddie on my bag. Thankfully I managed to get some birdies on the card and give myself something to play for on the back nine. I had some great chances coming down the stretch and hit two of my best shots of the week coming to the last. Positives I can reflect on later and take away and put them into play the next few weeks.
 It was a four into the last, four iron out of my boots. I executed a good shot. I wasn;t expecting to be holing the last putt of the day and was trying to clear the stage for Ross but he did that. I really enjoyed playing with him the last two days and he is a worthy winner. He played great and one to watch for the future.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT