THE EUROPEAN OPEN
July 5, 2008
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. That was a great duel with Ross out there?
 GRAEME MCDOWELL: Yes we had a lot of fun out there. By no means is it match play yet though but we both played solid golf today. But obviously I'm disappointed with my finish there. I had a very simple up and down on the 16th which I made a mess of and then on the 18th Ross kind of pull hooked his drive and I proceed to do the same and obviously I'm not quite as long as he is and I didn't get away with it.

 Q. When you both made eagle on the 15th it was like a little bit of match play though?
 GRAEME MCDOWELL: Yes it was I suppose. I am good mates with Ross and I know him very well and I enjoy playing with him and I enjoy his company and we both played some solid golf out there in very tricky conditions. Putting was very difficult but we both hit it solid. Ross drove the ball fantastically well and I look forward to playing with him tomorrow.

 Q. Two young players duelling for one of the European Tour's biggest titles, it is an indication of how fresh and vibrant the European Tour is right now?
 GRAEME MCDOWELL: Yes I think we have seen this coming for quite a few years now and it is great to be involved in it and playing top class European golf at this stage and it really is good times.

 Q. What are your thoughts on the challenge of the final day ahead of you?
 GRAEME MCDOWELL: Things can turn around very quickly out there with it being so windy. But I get to see the leader up close and personal tomorrow, see what he's up to and if I have to get involved in a little bit of a match play scenario with him then I will but first and foremost the first five or six holes out there are tough and you have to control your own ball and play the golf course. It is what I did today and I am happy with that plan for tomorrow.

 Q. You could go a long way to securing your Ryder Cup place tomorrow even if you didn't win, so is that in your mind?
 GRAEME MCDOWELL: It wasn't really in my mind until you said it but of course I realise the outcomes of potential finishes tomorrow and this is not the last chance saloon for me this weekend. I'll be going out there and trying to relax and play my own game out there but there are more tournaments coming up. There will be enough pressure on me tomorrow without overly thinking about that.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT