BALLANTINE'S CHAMPIONSHIP
March 14, 2008
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  GRAEME McDOWELL:  Happy with that.  Maybe not my best ball-striking round but seemed to keep the ball in position most of the day and gave myself a ton of chances and the greens are pure.  Really enjoy putting on these greens and we got lucky with the weather this afternoon.  It was blowing 30 miles an hour probably when we teed off; so much so that I drove it on the first green and mysteriously, the wind just dropped.  It was amazing.  Probably got the best of the day in the end.  We were very happy, obviously fortunate and nice to play well and give myself a chance this weekend. 

 Q.  Good to play alongside Thomas who is firing the shots in as well? 
 GRAEME  McDOWELL:  Always nice to play with Thomas.  We were both putting really, really well today and he's a fantastic player.  We've been helping each other out a little bit in and around the greens this week, practising a little about the together and gave me a bit of a bunker play lesson today and gave me tips on my putting on Tuesday, so he's been great.  It's been nice to be playing with him. 

 Q.  What is the putting tip? 
 GRAEME  McDOWELL:  Just a very small setup adjustment, with the way my feet were kind of angled, just told me to square my stance up a little bit so helped me a lot. 

 Q.  Are you excited about the weekend now? 
 GRAEME McDOWELL:  Absolutely.  Just striving for consistency this year, trying to give myself as many chances to play on the business end of tournaments as possible, and I think this is probably five from seven in 2008, giving myself a chance on the weekend, so that's really all I can ask for. 
 Yeah, obviously 64 today was very pleasant, and I feel happy with what I'm doing.  Certainly feel like I'm putting well enough to compete this weekend and have to keep doing more of the same.  Obviously a lot of golf to be played. 

 Q.  Talk about the race against time at the end. 
 GRAEME McDOWELL:  Yeah, the sun was dropping pretty quickly.  It's great, the lads are all pretty helpful.  The front group were trying their best to get going, and everyone was calling everyone else up coming in and trying our best to get done.  It's pretty dark out there right now and the last group will have a lot of fun on the last green.  It was difficult enough for us to see to be honest, but it was great to get done obviously. 
 It's a massive help in the morning to be able to have a little bit of a lie in and just prepare for a late tee time as normal and having to come up and finish and now you have to hang around waiting for last few groups again in the afternoon.  It's a massive advantage. 

 Q.  Is it difficult to keep the focus racing between shots? 
 GRAEME McDOWELL:  Yeah, it is tough to keep the focus.  But I think when you're playing speed golf like that, it takes the brain out of play a little bit, which is never a bad thing for us really.  The less time we get to think, normally the better we are I think. 
 Obviously it's great to play with a player like Thomas, he's a phenomenal ball-striker.  He's been there, done.  I mean, what a player. 
 Yeah, it's always nice when everyone in the group is playing well and going low and making birdies.  It keeps everyone going. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT