EMAAR-MGF INDIAN MASTERS
February 9, 2008
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   GRAEME McDOWELL:  Scoring was very difficult out there today.  The greens are getting really, really crusty as the week goes on, and yeah, I didn't really hole a ton of putts today.  Sort of lost my feel on the greens a little bit, but it's very tricky out there.  Par is still a great score.   
 In hindsight, I haven't played myself out of the tournament and I'm right there in the mix.  That's all you can do, one back going into Sunday, it's prime position.   
  
  Q.  Kick yourself at the last, that looked like prime position to score something?   
 GRAEME McDOWELL:  Yeah, I hit a really good 3-wood for my second, and it looked like I hit soft and didn't quite chase all the way up there.  I thought I hit a decent little chip-and-run but it just tailed off and kept going and caught the edge of the putt.  That's kind of the way things have been going the last few days.  It is difficult.  The greens are tricky and crusty and tough to make putts on.  I think it's the same for everyone really.   
  
  Q.  Aside from the crusty greens, the swirling and blustery wind over the tree line; is that causing problems?   
 GRAEME McDOWELL:  Very difficult to pick the wind out there.  You know, we're scratching our heads a lot of the times.  The wind channels down fairways and around and all over the place and you have to try and trust it, play it how it feels sometimes and try and commit to your shots as much as you can, and that's really all you can control.   
  
  Q.  Chatting to Ernie Els early in the day, he shot a fine 69 and you're actually thinking, he wanted 6-under just to get involved and he's only four back now, so it points to how attritional it was out there.   
 GRAEME McDOWELL:  Yeah, 69 is a fantastic score and gets him right back in the mix.  I didn't figure there would be too many scores under 70 today and he might well be the only one.   
 As I say, 73 keeps me in the mix and that's all I can do is control my ball.   
  
  Q.  Any target for that final day?   
 GRAEME McDOWELL:  If this wind is going to blow again, one, two, 3-under par is a fantastic score so have to wake up and see what it looks like tomorrow morning and see if I can hole some putts on the greens.   
  
  Q.  Last week in Dubai, looking at Stenson, Els and Tiger on the leaderboard the final day, but the appetite is there regardless of who the names are around you.   
 GRAEME McDOWELL:  There's plenty of guys want to go win tournaments and the attitude has to be exactly the same.  You have to go out there and try to control your ball and hopefully be the last one standing come late tomorrow afternoon.   
  
  Q.  Does last week's experience help with that?   
 GRAEME McDOWELL:  I think being in the mix for a weekend, obviously gets the competitive juices flowing.  I know I'm playing well enough.  Yeah, I think last week should stand me in good stead tomorrow and I've just got to keep doing exactly what I'm doing.  I think I'm playing well enough.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT