DEUTSCHE BANK PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP OF EUROPE
July 29, 2006
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You made it look easy out there today?
GRAEME McDOWELL:  Yes I played pretty well today, gave myself a ton of chances. Actually I didn't feel like I made all that many putts out there, even though I made two eagles which got the round going. But I hit the ball well today, put it in the fairway and gave myself chances on the greens, probably the best I've hit it tee to green all week. But I just struggled on the greens a bit. I realise that I will have to watch the field go past me this afternoon because there are a lot of birdies out there but I can't really complain with a 65, I'd have taken that before I went out.
Q. Is the course a bit different today?
GRAEME McDOWELL:  Well there is a little bit of a wind picking up and I think it has been playing a bit longer with a bit more moisture on the fairways and the greens but generally if you hit the ball well you are going to give yourself a ton of chances. There are a couple of smelly pin positions out there but in general there is a low number to be had.
Q. You should have done that yesterday, playing with the Ryder Cup captain?
GRAEME McDOWELL:  I really should have but I thought I'd leave the stage clear for him and I'm looking forward to seeing how he does this afternoon. He struck the ball unbelievably well over the past few two days and made some putts. But he produced some stellar iron play and he has still got it, no doubt about it. All the best to him.
Q. How much is the Ryder Cup a motivation to you now?
GRAEME McDOWELL:  I wouldn't say it is much of a motivation for me any more. I have pretty much given up my quest for the Ryder Cup as such. I have played a lot of golf over the past three months and I am taking the next two weeks off because I need to recharge the batteries. I have been a little bit fried over the past while and haven't been firing on all cylinders so I really need to rest up for a while and get myself right for the US PGA and look for a strong finish to the end of the year and get myself back up the world rankings again. It is not nice to say for me that the Ryder Cup has gone but I think it has because I haven't played well enough over the last couple of months.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT