BRITISH MASTERS SUPPORTED BY SKY SPORTS
October 15, 2016
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How do you sum up the day?
GRAEME McDOWELL: You can't let a finish like that disappoint you too much.  Trending in the right direction.  Obviously through ten holes I'm in really good shape.
Coming into the tough part of the course, 11 through 14, maybe got a little tight, maybe got a little conservative, didn't stay aggressive enough and had some great chances coming in.
Had a great chance on 15, had a great look at it and a great look on 16.  Couldn't quite make them.  At the last hole I left myself a very difficult bunker shot from short there and once I left the bunker shot, leave myself a really difficult 2-putt.
I was always in the mix, but it was a day where I positioned myself where I need to be, and I've got a sniff tomorrow.
Q. A couple of highlights, at 10, wonderful wedge shot.
GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, I was actually expecting this to spin a little bit more than it did and there's a little bit sort of a downslope behind the flag and I was hoping I was going to backup and be a little bit more pin-high.
Really feeling good on the greens today.  Made some nice putts early on and couldn't get them to go in at the end and looking forward to getting back out tomorrow.  Great crowds, great support and the weather is behaving itself, as well.
For this time of year, the greens are top, top-notch.  England, October, you're not really expecting this level of world-class greens and the grove have really put on a great display this week and the facilities are fantastic.  It's easy to have good speed when the greens are this good.
Q. You've got a real spring in your step.  Most excited you've felt about golf in a long time, would you say?
GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, for sure, I'm kind of on the other side of some life stuff, and I mean, great life stuff:  Getting married, having babies; it's great life stuff.  I took my eye off the ball a little bit and sometimes you don't realise that until you're in the middle of it.  I feel like life is starting to stabilise now.  I'm really, really happy where I'm at.  I'm feeling physically as good as I have in a long time and mentally I've got the hunger back on the golf course.
Just a case of being patient, not getting too disappointed with a six at the last like today and coming back out tomorrow and executing my game and we'll see what happens.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT