ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 5, 2016
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Great celebration of links golf?  
GRAEME McDOWELL: Of course, I mean, listen, when the weather is anything above average here this week, it's one of the best weeks of the year, let's be honest.  I've always enjoyed this tournament.  I think playing with a partner, playing with a an amateur partner, a lot of guys really enjoy it and embrace it, and you nearly take some focus off your own individual event.   
And you're kind of -- I always kind of immerse myself a little bit in the team event and kind of help my partner out and I enjoy that kind of thing and it kind of, like I say, takes the pressure off what you're trying to do yourself and can lead you to play well yourself.   
And Sir Anthony McCoy, a good little warm up this morning.  AP looks like he's playing well.  He's probably the most competitive man I've ever met.  He'll be taking it more seriously than I will be this weekend and that's saying something.  He's great fun to be around and obviously played with him last year for the first time.  Enjoyed his company a lot and like I say, extremely competitive and we'll be having some fun out there.   
 Q.  Your own game?  
GRAEME McDOWELL: My own game is in good shape.  Watching The Ryder Cup at the weekend was obviously great fuel for my fire, motivation.  A little bit of a kick in the rear, as you need, from time to time.  It was disappointing for me to be sitting home watching that and two years from now, I don't want to be doing that.  I'm starting my quest to be on the team this week really.  It inspired me to go hit a lot of balls the last couple weeks, not being on the team and I'm as motivated as I've been in a long time.  It was good in a lot of ways, I subjected myself to as much golf as I could at the weekend.   
I thought it was phenomenal TV and I loved every second of it.  Even down to the Patrick Reed celebrations.  That match with him and Rory was just off the charts.  It was an amazing game to watch.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT