WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 20, 2016
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  30 feet above the hole.  Kind of hesitates. Suspended in air there and comes trickling back.  That was unbelievable.  
GRAEME MCDOWELL: Yeah, it was.  It was one of those balls I saw it rolling up the green.  There's a slope behind the flag and I was hoping it was going to come down but I wasn't going to complain.  I was coming out of the left rough with a flyer lie.  I was happy to see it anywhere on the green.  Robert hit his shot in and I started walking up towards the bridge up on to the next fairway and I started hearing the crowd cheering.  They're either watching TV or else my ball had come down stiff.  Thankfully the later.  Nice way to finish.   
 Q.  Four birdies in a row to finish.  Puts you right in the thick of things.  
GRAEME MCDOWELL: Similar to my finish yesterday.  I played the last four 4-under yesterday.  I really needed it again today, you know.  It was good round.  Kind of let it slip away, 4-under par through kind of 9 holes and tough stretch of holes, 10, 11, 12.   
I got a flyer out of the right rough on 11 exactly where you shouldn't be over the back there and 12 from the front pin I came off the front and didn't get it up and down.  Felt the day slipping away.  Nice to dig in and make some birdies coming in and give myself a shot tomorrow.   
 Q.  I've seen you play your very best, the very best.  Where are you now heading into tomorrow, where is the game compared to where it was two, three years ago?  
GRAEME MCDOWELL: It's close, you know.  Driving the ball better this week.  Made a few changes kind of to the bag set-up.  Generally, you know, I've kind of -- kept saying my game is not far away.  I'm doing a lot of good things.   
You know, it's nice to get the juices flowing a little bit tomorrow.  I came here for a couple of reasons this week.  Obviously as a bit of a warmup for next week going into the Playoffs with Atlanta being my big goal this season and partly to try put myself back on the Ryder Cup radar.   
So, I'll need a big day tomorrow to maybe keep my fingers crossed but we'll go out there and play loose and anything happens, it's a positive.   
 Q.  Wonderful round of golf, 64.  How much confidence at this time of year do you have knowing that you put a number up like that?  
GRAEME MCDOWELL: You know, it is nice to come to golf courses where you feel like you can make scores.  I feel like sometimes, you know, the last two, three years playing on both sides of the Atlantic on both Tours you kind of end up especially cherry-picking the toughest events and toughest golf courses.   
Sometimes 64s are not really in your psyche.  Kind of level pars and a couple under is a great scores at your Bay Hills and your Honda Classics and stuff like that.   
Nice to come here to the Wyndham, first time here for me, playing a golf course where I feel comfortable and I feel like it kind of offers up some birdie chances if you play well and does good for your confidence.   
 Q.  Lot of guys come here with a lot of different goals in mind.  Coming into this week, did you have specific goals or just about momentum going into the playoff?  
GRAEME MCDOWELL: Just about kind of sharpening the game to go to Bethpage.  I never played the Tour Championship in Atlanta.  It's massive golf for me the next four weeks on a lot of levels.   
A, because I really want to play it, B, for my schedule next year and all the things that the Top 30 gets.  So, came here this week to limber up, get my game ready.  Perhaps an outside shot of putting myself back in the Ryder Cup picture.   
Big day tomorrow.  Who knows?  More importantly I can say just trying to get my game ready for the Playoffs next week.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT