ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 8, 2016
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Your thoughts on shooting 69 to be in a lovely place at 5-under?  
GRAEME McDOWELL: Happy with that effort obviously.  No doubt that we were on the correct side of the draw, if you like.  The guys yesterday afternoon and this morning certainly got the tougher part of the draw.  But the wind looked like it was going to subside around lunchtime but it didn't.  It kind of switched directions slightly and got strong again.   
I didn't think it was particularly easy this afternoon.  But they moved some tees forward and given you an opportunity in places, and I controlled the ball well and hit a lot of fairways and hit some nice shots.  I was pretty happy the way I played.   
 Q.  Is there something about a switch, just turning things on in links golf?  
GRAEME McDOWELL: I like links golf.  I grew up playing it.  I feel like I adapt maybe quicker than some other players do.  Like I said yesterday, the weekend I spent in Troon after the missed the cut in France was big for me on a lot of levels.  Like that third shot to the last from 99 yards, it was a 9-iron and a shot I was working on there at Troon at the weekend, stuff like that.   
It's very hard to tune into that type of golf, hitting a 9-iron from a hundred yards.  You don't see that often.  You don't play shots like that very often, and getting some practise is really very invaluable.   
 Q.  17 seems like a typical links shot, as well.  
GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, 17 was a nice little chip shot.  I was trying to hold a 4-iron off the tee, and the wind is so strong, it's tough to control your ball flight, and you know, it was a nice chip there.  I thought I had made it.  That would have been sweet.  But all in all, happy with 3-under par there.  Would be nice to maybe pick one up on 16 but happy the way I played today.   
 Q.  You're wonderfully placed.  
GRAEME McDOWELL: Nice to be going in there tomorrow afternoon sort of in the last few groups I suppose.  It's the kind of stuff I need right now, going into a big four weeks of golf here this week, and then to next week and the two weeks beyond.  So plenty of golf to play and nice to, like you say, having juices flowing going into the weekend.  Be looking forward to it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT