DUBAI DUTY FREE IRISH OPEN HOSTED BY THE RORY FOUNDATION
May 22, 2016
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Not the final round you were hoping for?  
GRAEME McDOWELL: No, absolutely not.  Started the week off well.  Felt like I was playing well.  My struggles on the greens kind of just ran through my game a little bit and frustration kind of kicked in this week, and combo that with some wet conditions.  Obviously it's the same for everyone but I just didn't deal with them very well and obviously disappointed by my weekend's performance.   
Came in here feeling confident, trying my best to maintain that confidence going forward.  You can't let a couple of days kind of knock you for six, and we'll be back.   
 Q.  This tournament has been badly affected by the weather; would you be in favour of possibly looking to move this event --  
GRAEME McDOWELL: To Spain?   
 Q.  That would be one idea.  Later in the year.  
GRAEME McDOWELL: Of course.  It's early in the year for golf courses here in Ireland, as we know.  We've been very unlucky with the weather.  It's been well supported, even with the weather conditions.  I mean, great to see people out here supporting us.   
Like you say, if this event could go a little later in the year, I'm sure Rory and The European Tour are working on that and it would be great to see.  Great to see some sunshine and dry golf courses and showcase Ireland for what it is.  It's a great golfing country.   
 Q.  How do you sum up your final day?  
GRAEME McDOWELL: I could use a lot of words for them but none of them would be particularly good and not okay for TV.  No, look, disappointing weekend.  Opened the week playing nicely.  Struggled on the greens all weekend, and it eventually kind of went through my game.  Really, the frustration level kind of cranked up as the weekend went on and I just couldn't get anything out of this golf course.   
Like I say, good weekend last weekend at THE PLAYERS, and I can't let this weekend disrupt my confidence and my momentum.  I've got a big summer ahead.  So I've got to keep the head up and keep going.   
 Q.  Today was pretty disruptive.  Did that affect things?  
GRAEME McDOWELL: The weather can't really -- I couldn't blame the weather for my performances.  Disappointing to see the disruption in the tournament.  Looks like they are going to get done which is great.  Going to be an exciting finish.  The crowds have really supported this despite the bad weather and fair play to them.  It's been a really well-attended event and a really well-hosted event, and hopefully we can get an Irish winner.   
 Q.  Not too long to go until one of your favorites, the U.S. Open, good memories from that.  How much are you planning to do before that?  
GRAEME McDOWELL: Obviously I'm going to play Wentworth next week.  Whether I throw another event in before the U.S. Open, but of course love going to Oakmont.  I was there the last time we were there in 2007.  It's a good golf course for me.  It's a pure U.S. Open course.  Looking forward to it.   
Like I say, busy summer ahead and can't let this horrible weekend performance dampen my mood and my spirits.  I have to keep my confidence level up.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT