THE HONDA CLASSIC
February 28, 2016
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
GRAEME McDOWELL: A little jittery, a first time on the stage this year, and I suppose this golf course will kind of do it to you a little bit.   
Missed a few key fairways.  Scrambled well around the turn.  A good up-and-down 9, good up-and-down 10, good up-and-down 11 and I left some putts out there.  It was kind of one of those days that I'm happy with 1-under, but it could have been a couple course, could have been a couple better.  I guess 1-under is maybe about fair.  Made some good swings down the stretch.   
Fun to play with Rickie.  He's obviously one of the hottest players in the world at the minute and great to be out there on the big stage playing with guys like that, so I enjoyed it.  It was tough, I was a little jittery, but hung in there pretty well.   
 Q.  You have next week now.  
GRAEME McDOWELL: That's a few steps in the right direction, both in the World Ranking, I can count Doral in now.  It's big to be there, World Ranking points to play for on a course which I like, yeah, one step in the right direction.  We'll keep grinding.  Nice to be back kind of where it happens and I really am very positive about a lot of aspects of my game, the way I'm driving the ball, my iron play.   
I just need to clean my short iron play up.  It's not where it needs to be and that's one of my strengths.  I'm just not quite dialed in with the short irons but everything else is really, really in good shape.   
 Q.  Big picture, I know a shot here, a shot there, but big picture, all those things you talked about --  
GRAEME McDOWELL: In this game, we talk about process a lot, but we need results to back up the processes to tell us we're on the right path.  So I've been hitting it unbelievably in practice, and it's nice to take it on to the course and get some reward out of it.   
Yeah, you need that little bit of legitimization of what you're doing to keep you working harder, as well.  Like I say, really happy with a lot of things I've got going on.  I feel like I can really have a big year from year.  Like I said to you guys early in the week, just stay patient with it and I did a good job doing that this week and I'm going to keep working on that going forward.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT