TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN
October 30, 2015
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How good was that round of golf?  
GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, I played very solidly today.  Big key today was probably just drove the ball that little bit better than I did yesterday.  I kind of leaked everything a little right yesterday, and today I drove it well.  Gave myself a lot of opportunities.  As you guys saw from the scoring yesterday, in very benign conditions here today, you can really go low on this golf course.  It was nice to make some putts and make some birdies today.   
 Q.  Have you got a sense that your game is building right now?  
GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, it's been building really sort of since the beginning of August.  I took some time off after the PGA Championship and just cleared my head a little bit and I've really been enjoying this run of golf I'm on.  I feel like momentum is building.  I've had a few knock-backs on back nines on Sundays, but getting to those back nines on Sundays, that's been the key and that's been the part that's missing.  So taking the odd hit is not a bad thing really.   
I'm really happy the progress I've been making.  It's been a tough year but looking to finish strong and moving to 2016 with some good vibes.   
 Q.  How important was it to get off to a really fast start in The Final Series?  
GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, listen, there's lots of points up for grabs here these next four weeks.  I've got a lot of catching up to do and this would be a perfect opportunity to have a big weekend and get myself sort of back up in The Race to Dubai.   
But this is a great set of four events.  First time in Turkey for me.  Really enjoying it.  This is a great golf course and the weather is great.  Hospitality is lovely but looking forward to the weekend.   
 Q.  Is there one little thing that's clicked into place that you feel like, oh, I've got that bit back?  
GRAEME McDOWELL: My driver has been a little bit of a problem this year.  That's normally one of my weapons, as you guys know.  It's been putting a lot of pressure on my putting at the other end and I haven't putted well consequently.  But that's more to the fact that I've needed the putts too badly.   
But driving the ball in the fairway has been a little bit of an issue, and I'm driving it much much better here the last couple months, so especially on a golf course like this, you have to keep yourself in the short grass.   
 Q.  What are your thoughts on shooting a lovely low score to get into contention?  
GRAEME McDOWELL: I played nice today.  A big key is I drove it in the fairway today.  I didn't do that we well yesterday.  The rough is fluffy out here, and you get a lot of jumpers and flyers if you don't hit it in the fairway.  Obviously ball-in-hand in the fairway, it's key to get it in the short grass and give yourself some opportunities to attack flags.   
So I did that better today.  I'm enjoying the way I'm putting, so if I can give myself some opportunities, I can make some birdies.   
 Q.  There have been plenty of steps in the right direction of late.  So is this one of those further ones that you feel more and more competitive?  
GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, nice to shoot low numbers always, even though this golf course is offering up some low numbers as you saw yesterday.  Still, you've got to go out there and do the job and hit the shots, and you know, 7-under par is certainly good for the confidence in general and see if I can keep the pedal down this weekend and compete and get myself there back nine on Sunday and get the old juices flowing, it will be fun.   
 Q.  Not bad for a first taste of Turkey, is it, to get involved in an elite event like this.  
GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, makes me wonder I didn't haven't come here in the past.  Just hasn't fit the schedule.  Needing some golf at this point in the season as I do, this has been fun to come down here and see how good the facilities golf course are here and really enjoy being in Turkey for the first time.  I'm definitely enjoying it.   
 Q.  Given that it is The Final Series, are you conscious of making one last push?  
GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, I'm 64, 65 in The Race to Dubai list right now.  Not in HSBC next week.  So this is a very, very important week for me.  I need to put some points on the board to make some sort of a dent in this Money List to give myself something to play for at the end.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT