UBS HONG KONG OPEN
October 20, 2015
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How close are you to being in top form?
GRAEME McDOWELL: I think I'm really close.  Been hitting it much better the last few months.  Sort of there or thereabouts at the Dunhill Links, there or thereabouts the British Masters.  Just some bad back nines on Sundays.  I feel like I'll really close.  It has not been the kind of year I'd hoped for but that's the game of golf.  You've got to take the rough with the smooth.  Got to keep working and keep trying.
So I feel like sort of turning the corner and the motivation, the confidence is coming back to me, and looking forward to being on leaderboards very soon.
Q. Last few weeks, been playing familiar venues with familiar people and playing with friends I guess.  How much does that help, as well?
GRAEME McDOWELL: It's helped.  I think, you know, I had 11 rounds under par in a row since coming back to The European Tour.  I think that helps with the confidence.  Like you say, familiar players and familiar venues, and just feeling comfortable.
So it's been great.  It's sort of what I needed I suppose from a mental point of view is just to kind of see some low numbers, and feel good about what I'm doing.  Here in Hong Kong this week, a golf course I feel like at Fanling where I can compete, and would really love to be in contention going into the weekend here.
Q. Playing in the States, playing on long bombers' courses, how nice is it to play on a course where you have to think?
GRAEME McDOWELL: I think when you're playing both sides of the Atlantic and trying to keep both cards, you end up cherry-picking the best events all the time, and the best events sometimes mean the toughest events.  You're playing tough golf courses against the best fields, and if you're not on your game, you can get beat up pretty quickly.
So it's nice to come to a golf course here at Hong Kong Golf Club.  It's more strategic, a little bit more of a thinking man's golf course.  Got to put it in the fairway and you've got to grind.  I've competed at this tournament in the past and I'd love to give it a rip this weekend and be there or thereabouts.
Q. I can't say your young family around with you.  Does that mean you get a chance to enjoy Hong Kong in the evenings?
GRAEME McDOWELL: Well, you know, no wife and kids with me this week.  It's a long way to bring them to the other side of the world.  Our little baby is 14 months here in a couple days, and not really fair to kind of drag her all the way to Hong Kong.
So I'm not sure I'll be taking in the Hong Kong night life per se, but certainly get an opportunity to eat some good food and have a glass of wine here or there.  But obviously business face on here this weekend trying to compete and trying to play well at UBS Hong Kong Open.  So I'm certainly very motivated this weekend.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT