ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 1, 2015
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








GRAEME McDOWELL: Played quite difficult early on.  The front nine, it was cold and breezy, and I think the late tee time worked out quite nicely because it's quite mild coming in there.  It was nice.
I was really happy the way I played.  I left a few out there on the greens but I had a couple of really big par saves, as well, especially the one on 17.  So I think all in all, 4-under is a fair result and very happy with it.
Q. Good start to take to Kingsbarns?
GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, Carnoustie one of those courses, it can get away from you.  You certainly are going to win it around here but you can't lose it around Carnoustie.  We've got the two good scoring opportunities at Kingsbarns tomorrow for sure and over to St. Andrews for a couple days.  More than happy with that start.
AP cut me a couple times and he took nine holes to settle down but he actually played really well and putted well.  I think this was probably the hardest course for him to score at as well with his handicap, so he'll be looking forward to tomorrow.
Q. Look forward to coming to coming to an Open Championship venue like Carnoustie?
GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, I think Carnoustie suits my type of game.  You have to be disciplined off the tee and I like this golf course a lot.  It's really good.
Obviously the pins are fairly benign out there.  They are not Open Championship pins by any stretch of the imagination, but this is great warm-ups for Open Championships in the future, because when you come back here, you know what you're doing off the tee and you know your strategies and you feel comfortable.
St. Andrews was the one I practised least at because I feel like it was just a few weeks ago when we were there, so I know what I'm doing out there.  This course and Kingsbarns I know less and I spent more time on both of those.
Q. Heck of a shot into 17.  What was it?
GRAEME McDOWELL: I hit 3-wood off the tee into the water and I hit a 3-hybrid.  That was good.
Q. Shot of the day?
GRAEME McDOWELL: Saved Kenny's bacon, that one, saved my bacon.  It was a funny tee shot, 17, for me, because 5-wood is not enough and 3-wood is nearly all too much.  I tugged it about five yards, but that was a key shot, big key shot that one.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT