WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 8, 2015
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. At the 8th and hit the wall.  All in all, 1-under 69.  How would you describe the day?GRAEME McDOWELL: It's kind of been that way all week.  I've played the front nine well and not played the back nine well.  Today was my best ball striking round by far this week.  Putter went a little cold on me.  My speed was great all day.  I burned the edges, I felt like, all day.  Got a little frisky on the last there and blew it by and missed the one back. All positive stuff.  I'm really happy with the leaps I've made the last few weeks.  My game is really turning the corner in a positive way.  So I'm really happy. This is a testing golf course off the tee.  I haven't hit enough fairways, but it's getting there with the rest of the stuff.  Pretty pleasing.  All bodes well for tomorrow, looking forward to it and going into next week.Q. Have do you attack tomorrow knowing there are some things to catch up.  This is a golf course where you don't necessarily just go out guns a-blazing?GRAEME McDOWELL: For sure.  We've seen how tricky the golf course can play this week.  Conditions were a little bit more benign this afternoon.  That little overcast conditions kept a little more moisture on the greens.  It didn't quite play as fiery as I thought it was going to play today.  It was there for the taking.  Like I say, I felt like I played good golf today, just couldn't get it in the hole. I'm going to be five back going into tomorrow.  Anything can happen.  This front nine is very gettable.  If it you can get off to the right start, you never know.  I'm just happy to be there to have an opportunity.  Looking forward to the challenge.Q. Rory was out at Whistling Straits today getting ready for the PGA.  What are your thoughts on the world No. 1 teeing it up in the year's final major?GRAEME McDOWELL: It's just great to have him back.  He's a special player, and like you said, the world's No. 1 player, defending champion.  He's the kind of guy you want to have next week.  Obviously wish him well, and we'll be interested to see how he's looking and how he's playing.  Exciting to have him back in the tournament.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT