WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 7, 2015
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  How was the course conditions out there?  It seems like it's playing very tough out there.  GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, pretty difficult.  I think the greens are getting drier and drier as the weekend goes on.  That 9th green, for example, my last hole of the day, was starting to look pretty brown. I don't think I've ever seen Firestone this tricky.  The fairways are effectively playing much more gnarled than normal because of the bounce.  It's firm.  Once you start hitting it offline, it bounces further into trouble.  It's playing tricky.  You've really got to be disciplined when you get out of position.  If you do play well, though, you can attack.  It's a good bounce.   Q.  Assess your day a little.  GRAEME McDOWELL: It was an up-and-down day.  The first nine holes, which was the back nine, I could have shot anything there, anything from 37 to about 42.  But I managed to hang in there and really shoot a really great grinding level par on the back nine, my first nine holes. And then my second nine, the front nine, I started to hit it a little better and give myself some chances and kind of made a couple silly mistakes. So that's golf.  I'd have taken 71, I think, six or seven holes into the round, and happy enough that I'm hanging around for the weekend, which it's always nice to be thereabouts.   Q.  Graeme, do you feel this is the round in the tournament where you have to survive and get through, and now you just kind of reset going into the weekend?  GRAEME McDOWELL: I think so.  Any time I've won or competed, there's always been nine holes or 18 holes where you just hung in there, you grinded, and you look back and say to yourself, that was a key round of golf.  So definitely was a big hang in there for me today.  It could have easily got away from me the first nine holes or so. I was really happy with my short game the last couple of days.  I'm going to have to keep that going because this golf course is getting trickier and trickier.   Q.  Graeme, what's going good for you these first two days that you're real happy with?  GRAEME McDOWELL: A bit of everything really.  There's been some good driving of the ball.  There's been some nice iron play, and there's been good chipping and putting.  It's been indifferent at times, as well.  This golf course, the fairways are very narrow.  It's tough to hit a lot of them.  When you miss fairways, it's very hard to get it on the green surfaces. I like the fact that I've worked out every aspect of the game these two days and just got to put it all together this weekend.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT