AL DIVISION SERIES: YANKEES VS INDIANS
October 7, 2017
Carlos Carrasco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Carlos, what is the difference between this year and last year?  You weren't available for the postseason last year.  You are right now.  How does that make you feel?  How do you feel coming into this postseason after not being able to play last year?  
CARLOS CARRASCO: I think it's a big difference.  Last year, my team went to the postseason, the World Series, so I was with them last year, but I couldn't pitch because of my injury to my hand.   
But now I'm available to enjoy my team this year.  I think this is going to be my first time, and I just want to enjoy it.   
 Q.  Last year, you overcame so many injuries.  The same with this year, with Brantley and Kipnis.  How do you think you guys are going to react now with Encarnacion going down last night and not being available?  I mean, really, no one knows when he's going to be available.  
CARLOS CARRASCO: You know, it happens on every team.  So it happened yesterday with Encarnacion, but I always remember when Tito said someone's going to come up and step up for him, and that's pretty much set.   
So last year, we had the same situation and a couple guys came in, they did the job.  And the good thing, we have a lot of guys, so they can do the job and really happy for it.   
 Q.  Obviously, Carlos, there's a lot of pressure on Tanaka.  It's an elimination game for the Yankees.  How do you view this, being up by two games?  
CARLOS CARRASCO: You know what?  We're up two games, but the only difference it's same baseball.  It's only two different, regular season and postseason.   
So I think tomorrow it's going to be the same game, the same guys.  We're just going to go out there tomorrow, no pressure, nothing about that.  So just go in there and pitch the way the way that I've been doing the whole year.   
 Q.  Just following along that way of thinking, you're up two games to none.  You know the type of offense and the type of team the Yankees are.  Is it imperative, as far as your team's concerned, to win tomorrow and not wait for Game 4 or Game 5?  
CARLOS CARRASCO: We will play really good and really hard, too.  So up two games, you never take it easy.  Those guys, they're going to come tomorrow, play hard tomorrow.  They're down two games.   
But the only thing I can say, just go over there, feel like it's the first game.  Never give up.  But I think really important is just go up there and do the same we've been doing the whole year and what we've been doing the last two games, too.  No pressure, nothing like that.  Just go over there and play good baseball.   
 Q.  Carlos, you had kind of an up-and-down Spring Training.  You were hurt, you had to go home for a while.  What did you -- when you started the season and this is probably your best season, you didn't miss any time, were you expecting that?  Did that surprise you that you were able to pitch so well during the whole season after having the elbow problem in Spring Training and everything like that?  
CARLOS CARRASCO: You know what?  Yes, I have my elbow problem in Spring Training, end of the Spring Training, so I didn't know if I was going to make my first start, but I did make it.   
And from there, I just built on myself.  You know, I went five innings, and the next game I think it was seven.  But is what it is.  Each year is different.  So this year is one of the best years that I've had in the major leagues.  But like I said, you know, we have some up and downs and that's what happened with me in Spring Training.  I thought it was going to be more than that, but I'm glad everything's come out good.   
 Q.  What is it about pitching at Yankee stadium?  You've had some success here.  Also, I think you're 11-2 on the road this year.  What's allowed you to pitch so well away from home?  
CARLOS CARRASCO: You know what?  I try to ask myself that question every day.  Like you say, yes, 11-2 on the road.  And home is 6-4, 7-4, something like that.  It's still the same baseball.  I have success on the road, so I don't know what I can say about that, but I just want to take advantage about that.  And tomorrow I'm going to pitch here in New York.  Then a couple years ago, I'd been pitching here, my last couple starts, they've been good.   
But tomorrow I think is a really important game and I'm just going to go with my best stuff.   
 Q.  Do you like the atmosphere here?  Do you like pitching at Yankee stadium?  
CARLOS CARRASCO: You know what?  I love to pitch everywhere.  Home, here, other stadiums.  You know what?  It's the postseason.  It's going to be a lot of people tomorrow.  This is going to be my first time, but I always say, it's the same baseball.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT