CURTIS CUP MATCH
June 13, 2010
Holly Clyburn
Mary McKenna
Danielle McVeigh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  RHONDA GLENN: Mary McKenna and your team, you're to be congratulated. It was a great effort, great try. Nobody gave up. I'm terribly sorry you didn't win, but we sure are happy to have you here on these shores.   
     MARY McKENNA: Thank you.   
     RHONDA GLENN: We can't wait until you come back.  
     MARY McKENNA: Thank you very much.   
     RHONDA GLENN: Please tell us a little bit about your overall reaction to today's results.  
     MARY McKENNA: Well, today's results were superb. I have to say the girls were very upbeat this morning knowing that we had to win practically the full eight or seven of the matches, and they just went out and they tried their hearts out. And I think to share singles with the U. S. team is absolutely superb.   
     So we certainly go home very positive. And with that said, we will rise again.   
  
  Q. Can you comment on Danielle's match with Jennifer Song? I think that was the featured match.   
     MARY McKENNA: It was the featured match, and her job was to lead the field and to be sending back messages of being ahead, which we had hoped would filter down to the girls when she has played absolutely superb golf all week, and she just continued it today; and I'm really, really proud of her.   
  
  Q. Is there anything overall that you could tell a difference between your team and the U. S., strengths that maybe the U. S. had overall?   
     MARY McKENNA: They probably strike the ball a little bit farther than us, and they probably hit it slightly higher into greens, which is maybe kind of -- but it's not a huge amount.   
     I think yesterday morning certainly the putts dropped better for you guys, but overall maybe the fact that they play on fast greens maybe more often than we do probably is a help, too.  
  
  Q. Rhonda, I have a question for Danielle.   
     RHONDA GLENN: Okay. I will introduce Danielle McVeigh who made, two-and-a-half points for GB&I.   
  
  Q. First of all, can you talk about the whole experience of being here this week and what you take away from it?   
     DANIELLE McVEIGH: It's been a great week. I didn't really know what to expect. I heard a few different stories from past players. Everybody had their own experiences.   
     I had a great week. We had a great team. We got on great. I played well, which I came here to do, and I'm glad I did.  
  
  Q. Maybe add what it means to win your match today?  
     DANIELLE McVEIGH: That's what I went out to do. I went out to play well, beat my opponent, as Mary said, hopefully send signals down to the rest of the team. And I mean I tried my best, but there's no "I" in team. We all have to come together.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about that 5-iron shot on 5?   
     DANIELLE McVEIGH: It was 175 to the pin. I hit 5-iron and it kicked right, and that was a great putt.  
     RHONDA GLENN: And we also have Holly Clyburn, who won her match against Stephanie Kono today, 2 & 1.  
  
  Q. Can you talk a little bit about your expectations coming into the Curtis Cup and what will you take away from this week?  
     HOLLY CLYBURN: It's been a great week this week. I expected to have great fun with the team, the captain, the manager and the team.   
     I heard a lot of stories from ex-players, like Helen Dobson who played a couple of years ago who said it would be great fun and that I would have a great time and experience of a lifetime; and it was, and I've had a great time. And it will be a memory for the rest of my life.   
     RHONDA GLENN: Danielle, after you captured your point and you knew the USA had won one point, what were your thoughts and your emotions?   
     DANIELLE McVEIGH: Well, I tried to maintain the belief in them very much so that they would play their own game and if they managed to pull it out, that would be brilliant for them. There was nothing that I could do. I was just watching and cheering them on, but I had 100 percent belief in them that they could do it.   
     It was unfortunate they came against a very strong side, that left a lot to do on the last day. The U. S. team is very hard to play against. They don't hit too many bad shots.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about this experience, you've been captain now the last two times and obviously all your experience as a player, what will you impart to the LGU or to whomever down the road to try to actually help end the current streak that you are on? Is there anything that you picked up over the last couple days that you all can do to try to make some referendum?  
     MARY McKENNA: I don't think there's an awful lot we can do. We would love to hold them back for another couple of years from turning pro, and I think that's been our -- over the four years that I've been involved with GB&I team we have lost, you know, probably 10, 15 of our top players.   
     It's the experience that they have gained -- I mean this team if they were to come out next year, would be far stronger, far superior because they've had so much experience, and they know what they can do. They know that they can take on the Americans. And I mean I would just hope that we can keep as well the fact that they are all so young, that we may get another two years out of them.   
     And I think that's probably at the moment for us is the hardest because we don't have the depth in numbers that they have in the U. S., but you know, I think the objective of the four unions is to keep encouraging more juniors and more junior girls so that we will hopefully have stronger teams or to keep up the strength of the teams. I think that's our biggest problem at the moment.   
  
  Q. Having mentioned that, I was wondering if Danielle, the old woman on your team, would be planning on turning pro or what your plans are.   
     DANIELLE McVEIGH: I'm not quite sure. I just want to get my dinner tonight and then rethink it all.   
     I haven't thought too much ahead. I've got one more year left at university at home which I plan to finish and we'll see what happens. I haven't closed any doors or opened any more.   
     RHONDA GLENN: How about Holly?   
     HOLLY CLYBURN: Not just yet. I'm not ready. I want to be on the top of my game when I go to turn pro and be on the top early. There's no rush. I want to be here in two years' time to try and get the Cup back to GB&I.   
     RHONDA GLENN: Any other questions? All right. Thank you so much. You all were so gracious.   
     MARY McKENNA: Thank you very much. Thank you, Rhonda. Thank you to all the press, too. You've been great. Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT