SAN DIEGO STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 12, 2018
Parker Baldwin
Kyahva Tezino
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Air Force - 17, San Diego State - 21   
 Q.  What did you do to pass the time?  
PARKER BALDWIN: We were relaxing for a little while, just kind of stretching out because we figured it would be a short break, 30 minutes.  Then we went back out and they told us it would be another 30 minutes.   
It was kind of dead in the locker room, so played some music and danced around a little bit.  Got the guys going a little bit.  I think that led us -- you know, we came out a little slow after the break but I think we got it going after a little while.   
 Q.  Did it helpfully that you went through this last year to face that this year?  
KYAHVA TEZINO: Sort of.  I guess this is starting to be like a trend now I guess when we play Air Force.  We just relayed it to last year, just have to come back out there and just win the game and we did.   
 Q.  It's always a hair pull with these guys.  You can't ever let your foot off the gas, ever, it seems like.  They are always going to keep coming and coming.  What kind of rivalry has been established here, because this has become a pretty good rivalry.  It was a some pretty good game.  
PARKER BALDWIN: Playing against those academy schools, they never give up.   
The way we play football, we want to try to be the most physical team out there on the field and obviously that's what the academy schools want to do.   
So I think any time we play an academy, it's going to be a good game and it's going to be a battle just because the way we play ball, and that's just how it is and that's what happens here tonight, too.   
 Q.  Did you ever get comfortable?  Can you ever say, it looks like we dodged a bullet?  
KYAHVA TEZINO: No.  I mean, Coach Long's been preaching throughout the whole week.  These guys are never going to give up.  Doesn't matter if you're up by 30, they are still going to keep coming at you.   
We knew it would be a fight at half-time and obviously that little break they had.  We knew these guys, it's not in them.  It's not in their personality to give up.  And that's something that we look forward to also is not giving up, mental toughness.  That's just what we're coming out looking forward to.   
 Q.  How were you able to be all over the field?  It seems like you're everywhere?  
KYAHVA TEZINO: I just give credit to these guys right here.  They go open holes for me and I go make them.  I can't do it without teammates and God obviously, but I just thank everyone for just recognizing that.  I mean, that's a good honor or whatever.  But we got San Jose next week, so I'm looking forward to that.   
 Q.  Obviously you guys are on the other side of the ball but how impressed have you guys been with what your quarterback has been able to do?  
PARKER BALDWIN: I mean, it's been great.  He's my roommate, so we spend a lot of time together and talk to him and he's been ready for this moment, came from a big high school in Texas and he's been ready for this moment for a while.  He's showed up and he's been clutch in this last few games.   
All the credit in the world to him and offense coming through at the end.  You know, we shouldn't have let up -- I feel like we shouldn't have let up any points in the second half and they come through and saved our butt.   
 Q.  Can one of y'all talk about how big the recovery by Trenton was at the end in the first half and how he was able to score a touchdown and what that gave you guys coming into the locker room?  
KYAHVA TEZINO: That gave us a lot of momentum.  Obviously, you get a touchdown, right before half, especially on special teams, that's a big momentum changer.  Now they have to start worrying about all phases of the game, even special teams now, so that was real big.  I mean, Trent and Caleb did a great job on that play.  They just gave us momentum.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT