UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
December 21, 2009
Lamarr Houston
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
  Q. Talk about the BCS?  
 LAMARR HOUSTON: It's the biggest stage of college football.  
  
  Q. How pumped up and excited are you for this?   
 LAMARR HOUSTON: I'm very excited to get the opportunity to play for the National Championship. And to get a chance to play against the number one team in the country is amazing. It doesn't get any better than that. If you're not pumped to play this game, you shouldn't be playing football.  
  
  Q. Are you excited to have the best defense against the best defense playing in this championship?   
 LAMARR HOUSTON: I'm excited about it. You know, we get to play the Heisman running back, doesn't get any better than that.  
  
  Q. What do you think about Ingram?  
 LAMARR HOUSTON: He has great reasoning, great feet. He misses a lot of guys after contact, especially while he's receiving the ball. You have to wrap him up, be physical, and use your technique. You can't just go at the guy with the arm tackle.   
  
  Q. Obviously, being from Colorado Springs, kind of what you went through there coming here, can you tell us how excited you are to be here now?   
 LAMARR HOUSTON: I never thought that I'd be playing for a National Championship as a D tackle. But I'm excited. It's a blessing. I couldn't ask for anything more.  
  
  Q. Do you kind of want to take that back to Colorado Springs?   
 LAMARR HOUSTON: You know, would I take the National Championship back to Colorado Springs it's going to be a great day. I don't think anybody from Colorado has ever won a National Championship.   
  
  Q. Talk about Alabama's quarterback?  
 LAMARR HOUSTON: They're great. They have a great quarterback. A lot of people don't give him a lot of credit. He's only thrown four interceptions all year in the SEC, and that is amazing. Playing guys like Joe Hayden and Major White, and different defenses like that. Throwing no more than four interceptions, that's unheard of.  
  
  Q. Has Coach Muschamp talked to you about the defense of Alabama?   
 LAMARR HOUSTON: I mean, obviously, he was under Saban, and the student faces the teacher. So we all know that.   
  
  Q. When the talk is about their D-Line, is that in any way motivation for you guys, the fact that that's who they're going to be talking about out there? All those All Americans on Alabama's D-line? Is that motivation?   
 LAMARR HOUSTON: You know, that's fine. They have All American D tackles and All American linebackers. But, you know, it doesn't help you get the W.   
  
  Q. How much does playing running back in high school help your quickness?   
 LAMARR HOUSTON: My quickness has just helped me be able to run better and be more mobile and have better foot work than a lot of other D tackles. But other than that, you know it's a slight advantage.   
  
  Q. What's maybe been your favorite part of all of this?   
 LAMARR HOUSTON: Playing for the Big 12 Championship and going to the National Championship is like a dream. It doesn't get any better than that. That's just something I get to keep for the rest of my life.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
   
   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT