NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINAL: PENGUINS VS SENATORS
May 25, 2017
Guy Boucher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Pittsburgh-3, Ottawa-2
Q. Guy, if you can, put into words the emotions you're feeling right now.
GUY BOUCHER: I don't think I can.
Q. What do you have to say about this group of players, these men that you've coached here over 100 games this season?
GUY BOUCHER: Do you have two hours?  That's how long it would take to talk about everybody and everything that these guys have had to go through and endure -- a lot of the stuff that is known and some stuff that is not.
They gave it their all.  They put their soul into it, and it's really tough.
Knowing from the inside how much they deserve to get credit for how wonderful these individuals have been and how resilient and how together this group was.  It was a real special, special group.
Q. You have said all season long that it's about them.  I would guess that a sense of pride is maybe one of those emotions that stands out.
GUY BOUCHER: I think it's beyond pride, to be honest with you.  It's a lot more than hockey this year.  Obviously, hockey-wise they have a lot of going through adversity, a lot of building, a lot of individuals grew to a level that, I'll be honest with you, I never thought they'd get there in a few months.
And you get to the end, and to see them grow and to see them push together, I wish I could have done something more to help them.
Q. Coach, despite not getting the end result you wanted, was Craig Anderson the best player in this series?
GUY BOUCHER: You know, I think when you start pointing guys out, you're forgetting about the most important.  This was a real team.  The reason why we're here is because it was a team, and every player at some moment or another had a terrific contribution, whether it was on the ice in terms of results or it was inside of the room or it was off ice.
How they've supported each other and how they were able to pull through and a lot of people thought they weren't going to be able to.  So him and the entire team, I think, have displayed a lot of courage, a lot of resilience, and a lot of caring.  And I think it started with the caring, and that's why it's very tough.
Q. Guy, what do you say to your team after a game like this one, a team that's so close, that bought in the way that they did this whole year?
GUY BOUCHER: That's something we keep to ourselves.  It's one of those conversations that stays within.
Just before I go, I want to congratulate the Pittsburgh Penguins for what they've done all year.  It was a terrific opponent, and they deserve to win.  Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT