NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINAL: PENGUINS VS SENATORS
May 19, 2017
Guy Boucher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Pittsburgh-3, Ottawa-2   
 Q.  Coach, what did you see tonight that led to your club falling behind 3-0?  
GUY BOUCHER: I saw a lot of urgency on the part of the opponent, which was to be expected.  You know, Stanley Cup champions, and they bounce back in every series.  So that was to be expected.   
I found that we fumbled a lot of pucks, and we didn't look sharp at all in the first two periods, and we gave a push, we always do.  In the end, their third goal is a puck that bounces off our skate and goes in our net.  And at the end there, we hit the post.  We could have tied it there, but they were the better team tonight for two periods, and they deserved the game.   
I mean, we deserved two games, and we got two games.  They deserved two games, and it's 2-2.  That's how it is.   
 Q.  Can you explain the struggling power play and what needs to be corrected for improvement?  
GUY BOUCHER: Same as five-on-five.  If you can't handle the puck on five-on-five, you're not going to handle it on power play either.  They had good pressure, and our support and speed wasn't good enough on five-on-five.  It was the same on the power play.   
You had guys isolated on their own having to deal with pressure, and we didn't handle it well.   
 Q.  Heading back to Pittsburgh tied up.  You've already taken a game there.  What needs to be changed going into Game 5?  
GUY BOUCHER: Oh, my goodness, we'll talk tomorrow and before the game.  Right now we've got a lot of things to look at, like we always do.  We assess what's important, and that's what we target for the next game.  There will be things for sure, but clearly our puck management wasn't very good, and I found that our legs, we didn't generate the speed that we normally do.  Especially the last game, we saw what our speed could do, and I thought it took two periods before we could see our legs.  Is it because we had less, or is it because they had more?  I think it's a combination of both, which gave them a 3-0 lead.   
Obviously, we'll have to be better next game.   
 Q.  Guy, we saw a couple of your players go back and forth to the dressing room during the game.  Your early indication is everybody came through okay?  
GUY BOUCHER: Yeah, I think everybody's okay.   
 Q.  Outside obvious injuries, what percentage is everyone at?  What does it start to feel like this deep in the playoffs, just the toll of the physical games?  
GUY BOUCHER: Well, obviously Burrows wasn't playing today, but the rest of the guys were there.  They're healthy in a battle and that's why we're still in there.  That's why it's still 2-2.  If we were losing guys, there's no way we could compete against those guys.  We know their depth, we know they're a quality team, and the star power they've got.  They've got the most star power in the league.  If we would lose guys, we wouldn't be able to compete against them.  That's why our players are in the lineup, and that's why we're able to do so.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT