NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINAL: PENGUINS VS SENATORS
May 15, 2017
Guy Boucher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Pittsburgh-1, Ottawa-0
Q. Guy, if you were to sum up that game, what would you say?
GUY BOUCHER: I thought we managed the first period really well, and the second period was fine.  Our third period wasn't good enough.  Theirs was really good.  They were surging.  They were pressing.  And we didn't manage it as well as we could.
Q. Was there pressure at all?
GUY BOUCHER: No, just they've got some really good players that turned it on, and they were hard to manage.  I thought we didn't manage the puck well on our breakouts at all.  We gave the puck away a lot.  We threw the puck away, and it created some momentum in our zone for the opponent.  Yeah, I think, when you look at the two games, we played five good periods out of six, and the third period cost us the game tonight.
Q. Coach, the first goal in playoff games always seems to be maybe the most important of the game.  Given the type of style that you're trying to play, do you think the first goal for your team is even more important?
GUY BOUCHER: Not at all.  It hasn't been all year.  It makes no difference for us.  We've had tons of games we don't have the first goal and we win, and then you have the opposite too.  So for me, I never make something out of the first goal.
Q. Guy, a lot of the conversation as that game was going along, sort of on Twitter and stuff, was it was an ugly game.  Did it look ugly to you?
GUY BOUCHER: I don't read Twitter.  I never read that in my life.  I don't know even how to get on it.  I don't pay attention to it.
Q. Was it pleasing to watch?  How did it look to you, I guess?
GUY BOUCHER: I'm not watching it.  I'm coaching it.
Q. Guy, a couple of your players said tonight that you guys weren't able to generate nearly enough based on your ability to get in on the fore-check.  They couldn't get a second guy in.  What did you see as the reason why you guys weren't able to have as much zone time tonight?
GUY BOUCHER: A lack of support.  A lack of support with our puck carrier.  Usually, we're really good at supporting each other when we've got the puck, and it's the same with our breakouts.  I thought we didn't support close enough.  So, when we were challenged, we didn't have another guy close to take the puck and continue what we normally do.  So we were having problems keeping it in the O-zone.
I thought the first period we did that fine, second period too.  So it's really the third period that I think they stepped it up one notch and we didn't, and we gave them the puck too many times.  You can't expect to beat a team like that when you're constantly giving them back the puck.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT