NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: LIGHTNING v BRUINS
May 27, 2011
Guy Boucher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Sean Bergenheim looked a little bit better out there at least to us out there this morning. How optimistic are you that he'll be available for you in Game 7 tonight?  
 COACH BOUCHER: I wouldn't say optimistic for now. It's better. He might try the warm-up. We'll see. I've still got to talk to my therapists and doctors. There's been some improvement. So to what extent, we'll have to wait and see, but doubtful.  
  
  Q. Guy, with what's at stake tonight, Game 7 is one thing in the first round. Do the emotions become a little bit more harder to control and deal with considering what's at stake in a Game 7 tonight?  
 COACH BOUCHER: Well, to say no would be a lie. But I think that's the challenge is to be able to control these emotions. And we didn't want our players or ourselves playing the game last night or this morning or this afternoon. It's our job to make sure that we stay focused on what we've got to do, not the hype of everything else that this game means. And we feel that we can be better than the last game, definitely.   
 We've done some good things. We want to keep those, but I think we need to focus on what we need to improve for tonight.  
  
  Q. Back to Bergenheim for just a second. What has his absence maybe caused you to do in terms of maybe some slight of hand, kind of masking his absence, making up for it?  
 COACH BOUCHER: Well, obviously you want to think of your own team. But at the same time, when you look at the Bruins' depth, it does make a difference because instead of equalizing things, it has a tendency to give them a little upper hand on that, because they've got Seguin on their third line and Ryder. And Kelly is doing really well. And they've got Peverley on the fourth line. First-line guy from another team on their fourth line, and that's where Bergenheim became extremely important for us in the previous series and this series where their line with Downie and Moore played like a first line.   
 So right now, we're trying to find chemistry with some other guys. I tried things two games ago. I tried things the last game. Some of it worked, some of it didn't work.   
 It makes me juggle a little bit to try to find some chemistry that is absolutely crucial in any of these playoff games.  
  
  Q. Speaking of finding that chemistry on that line, Blair Jones has stepped in there a little bit. What have you thought of what he's shown you in these Playoffs, because seems there's been a lot of improvement over the course of the season?  
 COACH BOUCHER: What I like about Blair right now, is what's different than before, is when we brought him up, he was good the first game. Pretty good the second game. Then they would kind of fade away a bit.  
 I think the last times we brought him up, he maintained his level of play. And so that's what I find really interesting right now. He's working so hard. He's a warrior. We knew that. But I think he's maintaining the level of play that we're expecting out of him. And he's brought a lot of grit.  
 We knew he had that. He's one of those guys that's got enough skill, but has got a lot of grit, pays the price, backchecks extremely hard and finishes his check and is first on puck. So I think that's a great recipe to have a good playoff.   
 So I think for him, what I like about this player is that he likes the challenges. He's on the bench and he's looking at me with those eyes: Put me out, I'll do the job. It's always fun to have those guys.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT