NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: LIGHTNING v BRUINS
May 22, 2011
Guy Boucher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Guy, how much thought have you put into overnight your goaltender situation? Have you come to any decisions on that for tomorrow night?   
 COACH BOUCHER: I don't feel like we've got a situation. We've got a goaltender that has taken us here. He's played really well, and he's getting prepared for tomorrow. We've got a goaltender that came in relief and it's -- he's done really well. So every time we ask him to come in, he's played well, and we've got a goaltender that has taken us here that knows how to win and knows how to bounce back. So don't feel there's a situation there.  
  
  Q. Roloson?   
 COACH BOUCHER: Roloson is getting ready for tomorrow.  
  
  Q. You talked to us about Teddy yesterday after the game about how he is showing you things, that he can do what he's done at other levels here. Is that something you don't have any sense, I assume at the start of the Playoffs, what you're going to get from guys like that, because they don't have a good track record? Is it exciting for you to watch guys like that take advantage of this?  
 COACH BOUCHER: Obviously you feel good about your players feeling good about themselves, yes, but I think the reality now is that every game, we get a different hero, and we want to focus on the fact that only 12 games, it's 2-2. And today is a new day, and whoever played great last game, if they don the next game, we're moving on and getting better. So we want to get better for the next game.   
 And yes, we're happy some players stepped up. But we can't be satisfied with anything or anybody. So after the game last night, if you would have asked me, I was very pleased and today I'm very calm.   
  
  Q. Can you give any update on Downie, how he's feeling, if he might be available tomorrow night?  
 COACH BOUCHER: It's day to day. And we'll see tomorrow. We have to wait.  
  
  Q. Just curious what you thought of Tim Thomas's comments about they're basically guaranteeing that they're going to win the series, and I guess he also implied he's (indiscernible)?  
 COACH BOUCHER: Well, I heard about that. Well, we heard that we were easy to play before last game. And, well, I guess we should have stayed home.   
 You know, there are people are allowed to think what they think and we're not going to pay attention to that. Hopefully our players are staying focused and that's what we're focusing on.   
  
  Q. You mentioned Downie before. Just curious if you had any thoughts on Nathan (indiscernible) kind of looming over him and giving him an earful after he (indiscernible)?  
 COACH BOUCHER: I'm sorry, I didn't get that at the end.  
  
  Q. When Nathan was kind of in Downie's ear after he had hit him, I was just curious if you had any thoughts about a player doing that to one of your guys.   
 COACH BOUCHER: Oh, there are things that are surprising and there are things that are not surprising. And there's a lot of things that go on in the playoff game, and they're trying to win and we're trying to win and everybody is trying to fight for the space they've got. And that's a situation that, right now, we have no control over and we want to make sure that we control what we need to for tomorrow, which means our attitude and our emotional level and control starts today. So no, it doesn't bother me.  
  
  Q. Several of the goals yesterday, both guys were involved in turnovers. Are you noticing at all in the series that have things been magnified where there's less room for error on that?  
 COACH BOUCHER: Yeah, our first period yesterday was a record for our entire year for turnovers. So certainly, that's not something we want to reproduce. We gave away 10 turnovers in one period, and obviously that's going to kill you. So they capitalize on 3-0s, and luckily they didn't capitalize on more than three.   
 We felt that we had legs. We felt we were flying. We got some opportunities in the first 10 minutes and then we didn't manage the puck in some certain areas, and certain instances. And you play a really good team that's got some skill, and if you're going to give them that many, it's going to hurt you.   
 So we felt that in the first period, we just took away the turnovers, that our legs were in that game, contrary to the previous game where we were flat, and we would have some opportunities ourselves. And we felt that we would just grind it out one by one.   
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT