NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINAL: PENGUINS VS SENATORS
May 21, 2017
Guy Boucher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Pittsburgh - 7, Ottawa - 0   
THE MODERATOR: Questions.   
 Q.  Could you begin by offering an update on players who didn't finish the game, your captain, Derick Brassard?  
GUY BOUCHER: We wanted them out so we'd rest them, just like we did against the Rangers the fourth game.   
 Q.  All are good enough to come back if they need be?  
GUY BOUCHER: Yes.   
 Q.  Can you offer sort of an explanation or offer an opinion on what you saw today?  
GUY BOUCHER: Fine start, but then, you know, they got going.  We weren't able to push back.  They basically served us what we served them our first game at home.   
Yeah, it was great for them, it was a bad one for us.  Got to move on.   
 Q.  Bobby Ryan called this a flat-out spanking.  Your team has been a great bounce-back team all year.  Does a game like this, as lopsided as it was, does that leave a mark?  
GUY BOUCHER: Did it leave a mark on Pittsburgh when we did that to them at home?  They won the next game, so...   
In the playoffs, just like the season, your ability to rebound from a great game or a really bad game is necessary.  We've done it all year.  We've done it in the playoffs.  After the fourth game against the Rangers, we were supposedly done, so...   
Rebound, get ready for the next one.   
 Q.  Just trying to change momentum, taking out Anderson, putting Condon in, taking him back out.  
GUY BOUCHER: Yeah, you know what, you want to keep your timeouts, you might need them later.  I thought just trying to stall things, without taking a timeout.  Then put him back in because he's my man.  I have total confidence in him.  I want him to know that.  I want him to go back out there.   
When I saw where the game was going, he didn't have to live that for the rest, so...   
 Q.  With respect to the Penguins, they came out and pushed, but did you give yourself much of a chance today?  
GUY BOUCHER: I thought we were okay in the first minutes, but then they got that first goal.  You know, I think the second goal gave them a lot of wind.  We weren't able to push back.   
 Q.  When you have a situation like that in the first, you take Craig out, did you say something to him on the bench to be ready to go back in?  
GUY BOUCHER: Yeah, yeah.  I told him.  I just need to stall the game a little bit, I'll put you back in.   
 Q.  In your experience, what's the best way typically for a team to move past this kind of game?  
GUY BOUCHER: There's two things.  First, right now, move on now.  Don't wait another day.  Don't waste any energy on it.  It's our job as coaches to come in and make sure that we go back on the things that made us successful in the previous games against them and the other teams, to make sure we put our strengths on the ice for the next game.   
It's certainly not going to be about our weaknesses, it has to be about our strengths.  We didn't have that today.  There's no way we can rival the best team in the league and the Stanley Cup champions.  It's about putting our strengths on the ice, and they weren't there today.   
 Q.  You had Colin White in the warmup and Borowiecki, you were considering them for this game.  What can we expect for those two guys for Tuesday night?  
GUY BOUCHER: I don't know because I got to go back and see what's happening with the injuries.  That's why today we weren't sure who wasn't going to be able to go.  Whitey could have played.   
 Q.  Will you go back to Craig for Game 6?  
GUY BOUCHER: Oh, my God.   
 Q.  Got to ask the question.  
GUY BOUCHER: I know you do, but you should not.   
 Q.  Just wondering how you explain in a game that means so much...  
GUY BOUCHER: I don't know.  Happened to the other teams.  They can't explain it either.  It's not about what it means, it's where the players are.  Some days they have it, just like a plumber wakes up one day, is having a great day, the other day he's not having a good day.  Just one of those bad days.   
It's not lack of preparation.  The guys are giving everything they've got.  That's what they had today, and it wasn't good enough.   
 Q.  But are you concerned the last two games you've been beaten by a better team?  
GUY BOUCHER: We know they're a better team.  Everybody knows that on the planet.  They're the Stanley Cup champions.  They're the best team in the league.  That's no secret.   
We know to beat that team, we need to be at our very, very best.  And we were not.   
Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT