NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINAL: PENGUINS VS SENATORS
May 21, 2017
Guy Boucher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions for coach.
Q. Any change up to your lineup today?
GUY BOUCHER: Same goalie.  We have to wait after warmup for defensemen and forwards.
Q. Because of injury or because...
GUY BOUCHER: Different things.
Q. Thinking of making a change?
GUY BOUCHER: No.  Different things that we have to manage.
Q. We asked you this yesterday, but now that you watched a little bit more of Friday night's game, what needs to be changed or cleaned up going into this afternoon's game?
GUY BOUCHER: Our start was a lot better than I thought.  It was outstanding, actually.  First ten minutes we had five scoring chances to zero.  Had some high-end, quality chances.  Their goalie made some big saves on it.  We could have had the same start as the previous game.  But those were good saves.
I think after I would say the last five minutes of the first period, started to slowly get away from made us successful in that part.  Whether that first goal deflated us or not, I don't know.  But we didn't have a very good second period.
We had a good third period.  But the last 10 minutes were outstanding.  The first 10 and last 10 were very, very good.  In the end, the winning goal is a puck put in the net by our own skate, so...
It was much better than I thought, to be honest with you.  I have to be fair to the players.  They came out really strong.
I knew we had started well, but we started great.  Their goalie made some key saves, kept them in the game.
Q. Is Borowiecki possible today?
GUY BOUCHER: No.  We decided not to.  He's closer, but we thought every day we can buy time, we will.
Q. On him, what element do you miss when you don't have him?
GUY BOUCHER: I mean, he's the number one hitter in the league.  He's a heat-seeking missile, that's what he is.  So, you know, it usually puts the opponents on their heels.  It's better for the tough players to get some ice around him.  He's one of those guys that creates fear in the opponent.  That's what he did all year.
I mean, we're missing it, but at the same time we're getting something else from other players.
Q. (No microphone.)
GUY BOUCHER: Oh, yeah.  Oh, yeah.  It's really close.
Q. You guys have had success in the afternoon starts during these playoffs.  Is that a coincidence or is there something about that that's working?
GUY BOUCHER: To be honest with you, I don't think that there's a magic potion there.  I just think we come to the rink and play.  Not much to think about.  When you have a whole day to mingle in your mind, try to focus on your game, it's a long day on a normal day.  When guys just get up, eat and go, there's less things to worry about.  There's less, I guess, nervousness.  You just get going and you play the game.  That's the good part about it.
Q. Is Borrows one of your game time decisions?
GUY BOUCHER: No, he won't be in.
Q. He's out?
GUY BOUCHER: He's out.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.
GUY BOUCHER: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT