UBS HONG KONG OPEN
November 16, 2012
Christian Nilsson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  CHRISTIAN NILSSON:   Yeah, it's been pretty much the same the whole year, just struggling big time.   I did this week, as well.   Especially my long game has been pretty bad all year. 
So, missed a lot of fairways, missed a lot of greens.   So it's been a tough year.   Now it's over and I don't really know what to do.   It's Q‑School I guess.   Yeah, I'll see tomorrow what happens. 

Q.   I guess you came here with the last roll of the dice knowing the game was not in perfect condition, but hoping something would click. 
CHRISTIAN NILSSON:   Yeah, you are always hoping of course.   It can turn around very quickly in both directions, I know that.   There's always hope and it felt pretty good coming into the week, but I didn't really find my game.   So struggled again. 

Q.   I take it there's been a lot of searching for that game across the season? 
CHRISTIAN NILSSON:   It has.   I've been practising really hard with my coach back home and I've been practising hard myself.   So I'm trying to find some kind of feeling, something to hang up the swing on.   But it's been tough.   I haven't really found it. 

Q.   And it's unlike you because we got so used to the consistency and particularly in recent years, you were in the Dubai World Championship in the final last year and your game had really come on song. 
CHRISTIAN NILSSON:   Yeah, I have no answer.   My game last year was really good.   My iron game was improved big time.   But something happened this year.   I don't know what happened.   And the confidence, of course, went down during the year. 
So it was pretty tough the last couple of weeks, and especially during the middle of the season, as well. 

Q.   Sounds like you're going to go away and think about it rather than automatically go to Q‑School?
CHRISTIAN NILSSON:   Yeah, I'm going to think about it and see what I'm going to do.   I don't really know at the moment but probably Q‑School, yes. 

Q.   Are there other options? 
CHRISTIAN NILSSON:   I don't know yet.   I'm going to think about it tonight and tomorrow and Sunday, and then make some kind of decision I guess. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT