ALSTOM OPEN DE FRANCE
July 5, 2012
Christian Nilsson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How pleased are you with the first round?
CHRISTIAN NILSSON:   I'm very happy.   It's been a struggle this year for me so far, so I really needed this score today, and especially on this tough course.   It's good for my confidence.   It really, really helps.

Q.   Pretty special?
CHRISTIAN NILSSON:   I think so.   I think the course plays quite tough even though it's calm conditions and beautiful weather, but still a tough course.   Really, really pleased with 6‑under par. 

Q.   What has made the difference if you have not been playing particularly well?
CHRISTIAN NILSSON:   I don't know.   I've been very patient I think.   So I've been practising on things I believe in and just waiting for something to happen.   Finally looks like it did.

Q.   Was it a case of something wrong, it needed a fix?
CHRISTIAN NILSSON:   In the beginning of the year, my long game was pretty bad and my short game has been all right all year.   These few last weeks, the long game has improved and the putting seems to work, as well.   So today everything clicked.   So a happy round. 

Q.   Not the first time when you've performed well on a tough track.   You seem to knuckle down when you have to. 
CHRISTIAN NILSSON:   Maybe.   I like tough courses and things like that, and I like this course.   I have been playing quite well here before.   That maybe helps.   

Q.   Elaborate, if you would, on the difficulty of this course, what makes it so hard. 
CHRISTIAN NILSSON:   It plays quite long and the rough is up this year, so you really need to hit the fairways, which are quite narrow I think. 
So you really need to strike the ball good and hit the fairways and good irons into the greens, and the greens are firming up.   So it's getting tougher on the greens, as well.

Q.   And I take it you met most of the fairways out there?
CHRISTIAN NILSSON:   I think so.   I played pretty good off the tee, which is important as I said.   My driving and my 2‑iron worked good today, yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT