PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 14, 2011
Christian Nilsson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Tell us how you managed to shoot a round of 64 today.   
 CHRISTIAN NILSSON: Mostly because of my putter I guess. My game from tee-to-green has been good for two days but yesterday I didn't hole that many putts. But today I holed a lot of long putts and made nine birdies today.  
 Especially there was a few on the front nine. I made four or five straight birdies in the end of the front nine and holed a few good putts there, and especially on 6, that was probably the longest putt of the day, my 15th. 15-metre putt through the green. So it was fun. It's all fun when the putts are dropping, so today was a good score, and a good game.   
  
  Q. Best round for a little while?  
 CHRISTIAN NILSSON: I think so. I had a similar round at the Dunhill Links at Kingsbarns, 8-under, and that was probably the two lowest rounds of the year.  
  
  Q. Austria you seemed to get it going; a little bit of frustration when something went awry?   
 CHRISTIAN NILSSON: I had a tough finish in Austria and didn't finish that high up. But my game has been pretty good the last month or so. So it feels all right and I'm planning to enjoy it.  
  
  Q. What are your thoughts towards the end of the season? I know it's still a long way off and still a lot to play for.   
 CHRISTIAN NILSSON: My goal is to get to the Top 60 of course, to reach the final, and I need a few good finishes to get there. So this is a good start and hopefully I can have two more good days and get something going.  
  
  Q. Are you relaxed about that or determined?   
 CHRISTIAN NILSSON: Something in between I guess. I really would like to get there but I'm trying to take it calmly and trying to enjoy the game and see what happens.   
  
  Q. I take it here, you're bound to enjoy it, quality golf?  
 CHRISTIAN NILSSON: Yeah, it's very nice, the course is lovely and the weather is beautiful. So it's a beautiful place to play golf.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT