AEGON CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 17, 2015
Dominic Inglot
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







PEYA‑SOARES/Murray‑Inglot
  6‑4, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How do you think that went?
DOMINIC INGLOT:   For the first kind of tournament back, not so bad, but for my own personal goals, obviously disappointed.   You know, I think everyone who kind of comes back from some time out, you know, is just expecting it to just be like it was a couple of months ago.
So I have to be realistic and know it's not going to be like that.   You know, I'm not happy with everything, but at the same time I probably put in ‑‑ my first real hit on the grass was on Thursday before this, as in first proper session.   So given that I've got maybe five days under the belt, really, it's hard to expect it's going to be phenomenal.
But, you know, the key is to get as much practice in in time and as possible before the Davis Cup.   That's always been my thought in terms of what I wanted to, you know, be ready for. 
I'm not trying to say that Wimbledon or Queen's or Nottingham isn't ‑‑ you know, the earlier I can get back, the more matches you can get in in those kind of competitions against the best guys, I've got to kind of keep my eye on the prize.   But in the short term I would say I'm disappointed because I would have liked to have done a bit better. 

Q.   You were hurt immediately after the Davis Cup?   Is that right?
DOMINIC INGLOT:   Well, theoretically it was actually ‑‑ before Davis Cup is when I started feeling it.   Obviously it gradually got worse.
So, you know, in Davis Cup, last stages of the match I started feeling‑‑ it started coming on even more, and then when I got to Indian Wells it was at a bad point already there.   Then Miami was literally just playing on one leg.
I'm kind of quite happy with how Indian Wells went, considering there were a couple of matches almost on one leg, and Miami it was ‑‑I couldn't even push up off my serve.
Yeah, it's been a long time since then.

Q.   What are the strengths of you and Andy as a partnership, would you say? 
DOMINIC INGLOT:   Yeah, I mean, I was just talking to Andy.   You know, I was saying to him, It's a bit of a shame our first outing together has to be when I'm not quite, you know, full sharpness.
You know, the time that I was last fully healthy obviously was around Davis Cup time and I would have loved to have been playing like that with him today.   But I think that the good things are that‑‑ you know, obviously Andy is a brilliant shot maker and he reads the game, you know, better than most.
I think that, you know, myself as a doubles player, you know, I can have a big game as well.   Sometimes people can think that they're not quite sure what to do.   I know that a lot of doubles players are very much about, you know, covering the percentages, being solid, making sure there are no errors, knowing how to kind of play the court in their best interests, but sometimes if you're playing against guys who can hit such good shots that that doesn't really matter.
A perfect example of that would have been last year when Sock was playing and Pospisil played against the Bryans.   The Bryans, they know the court coverages really well, but when you have a guy who can dip the ball however he wants with his forehand, that goes out the window. 
I like that idea that me and Andy can, if there is a time we play again together, that ‑‑ you know, doubles players can be worried that there is shots that we can hit, that doesn't matter.   If your court coverage is the right thing, you can still be in trouble for them.

Q.   Was this pairing this week arranged by yourselves or did Leon have a part of it to have a look at you together?
DOMINIC INGLOT:   Leon definitely spoke to Andy and me.   You know, he was thinking that it was a good idea to try and pair up.   I spoke to Andy before. 
But obviously Andy has got to look after his career aside from Davis Cup, and, you know, he had said to me before some time ago that he was going to wait until the last moments to decide whether this was the right thing for him.   It's nice the stars aligned, so to speak, and we were able to play.
I'd like to know if Leon, you know, was helpful in that or if Andy wanted to play, anyway.   You'd have to ask them.   I'm not sure.   Andy seemed very keen to play.   I was really grateful to have the opportunity.

Q.   Will you play with Andy in Davis Cup?   Can we expect that for next month?
DOMINIC INGLOT:   Who knows?   Who knows? 
I think Leon's thought was ‑‑ you know, he obviously likes to have as many options as possible.   You know, the thought is, okay, obviously me and Jamie played the last Davis Cup together.   We've got that under the belt.   I think that would be nice to call upon. 
But as you know, anything can happen.   Sometimes people can get injured or, you know ‑‑I don't know.   Sometimes you have to be thrown in with what you have left.   I think, you know, I'm not sure if that's his first idea or if perhaps playing with Jamie with Andy is the first.   But at least he now knows he's got a lot of bases covered. 
I'm just talking about between us three, because obviously I might not even get selected.   I don't know.   I think a lot also depends upon Wimbledon if the likes of Colin Fleming and Jonny Marray, if they do very well at Wimbledon, it's going to be tough to rule them out, as well. 
But I'm saying between the three of us, it's nice for Leon to have the option of, okay, well, Dom's played with Andy, so he's not completely ‑‑ Dom's played with Jamie, Jamie's played with Andy.   It's nice for him to have that.   I think he was very keen for us, for me and Andy to play here so that we had that dynamic.   At least we had one, potentially two if we had gone further, to call upon that kind of experience.   So that's always a good thing.

Q.   Were you nervous playing with Andy or just because it was the first match back?
DOMINIC INGLOT:   No, I think it was more the first match back.   It wasn't so much ‑‑I wouldn't call it nerves.   It was more to do with just things going a lot faster than I was expecting.   I mean, when you come back, everything is like, whew.   I caught myself doing this, I was like ‑‑not there. 
You're trying to pick it up as you go along.   I thought as the match progressed, we started coming along a little bit better and you start maybe seeing a return maybe   just a little bit better.
I would have loved that match to have lasted a little bit longer, because every moment I thought I was feeling a bit better.   Obviously I still missed a few returns, but I think that's to be expected.
I don't want to make that an excuse, like, oh, that's okay, I can walk out of here happy.   I'm not, because I know there is still a lot of work to be done before the next tournament, before Wimbledon, before Davis Cup.

Q.   As a doubles specialist, playing with Andy, do you think I need to tell Andy what to do?   Or do you trust his instincts as a player and previous doubles experience to get on with it and know he'll know how to play?
DOMINIC INGLOT:   You know, Andy‑‑ it's not like Andy is not capable of doubles.   He obviously knows how to play.   He's won a fair few tournaments in doubles.
I'm not going out there being like, Hey, Andy, by the way, this is how you play dubs.   That's not happening, let me tell you. 

Q.   But when you play Peya‑Soares, for example?
DOMINIC INGLOT:   He's played them a few times.   He was saying he played them in Munich, played with Colin in the final in Montreal.   He's played against those guys, so he's aware of that. 
But I think the biggest thing is understanding each other and strengths and weaknesses, and, you know, trying to fit that kind of that puzzle together, jigsaw, so to speak.
So obviously he started off serving and volleying, and then towards the end he served and stayed back, because he realized not just only his strength but in terms of what I was able to do.   And I think given that had I been obviously a little bit more into it in terms of a few more weeks into it, then maybe I would have been covering the net a bit better so he wouldn't have felt as maybe isolated coming in after his serve.
And that not happening, I think that's why he served and stayed back, he was thinking, Dom's not helping me out as much as maybe he was hoping I would.   Then he felt a bit isolated.
Yes, we can say we went through the game plan, and I'd be like, Listen, I think this is going to happen.   And this is what did happen.   I felt Peya got a bit shaky a few times.   We went at him a few times and he started missing a couple.   Little tidbits like that. 
But it's not really to do with, you know, game plans, because I think he knows those guys and learning how to play doubles, he doesn't have to learn.   He knows.   It's just a question of trying to figure out how our strengths can align in the best way.

Q.   Does Wimbledon have more significance for you this year than normal because of the implications for Davis Cup?
DOMINIC INGLOT:   Yeah, absolutely.   Every match counts.   If I had been, you know, carrying on as I think you were alluding to, if I had been playing since Miami, I don't think it would have mattered as much. 
I really think that that position for the Davis Cup is really up for grabs, because I think anybody can right now step up, and if they have a good tournament, it's going to be tough for Leon to say, Well, I can't rule that guy out.
You've got the likes of, I think, you know, Jonny Marray, I think he might be playing with Freddie Nielsen.   So they obviously have done well before (laughter).
So, you know, let's say he has another good run.   Colin Fleming I think is playing with Butorac.   Butorac is a very good serve and volleyer.   I think they could do well on that grass.
I think I may be playing with the enemy, with one of your French boys (laughter).   So I might have a good scouting report, but so will he.   Roger Vasselin. 
But as I said, if anyone has a good run, it's going to be a nice headache to have for Leon.   I think he's hoping at least one or a few of us is going to do well.

Q.   How do you feel Andy is looking coming up, having practiced with him and playing with him today?   Is he in good shape?
DOMINIC INGLOT:   I think so.   You know, I think he looks really relaxed on the practice court.   He's hitting the ball pretty big.   I can vouch for that. 
Yeah, I think he's been ‑‑he looks to me like he's playing well.   I can't say, you know, compared to other players.   I don't train with Andy that often.   So I can't say compared to this tournament, you know, he's hitting the ball better right now.
But I think he's got, compared to last year, you know, obviously at the tail end he was doing better, but I'm sure that coming back from that back surgery and so on he wasn't quite physically there, and having a good offseason has really helped him and he looks confident.
Obviously he knows he can do well on grass and the hard courts, and I think having good results on the clay is something that can really give him that confidence and probably has given him that confidence, because maybe he didn't expect to do as well.
I don't know, but I mean, that's just only guessing, but I think he looks pretty happy and pretty good.

Q.   Have you forgiven Andy for the Davis Cup incident?
DOMINIC INGLOT:   Yeah, I mean, it's all a bit of fun and games which sometimes can go a little bit different way that you thought it was going to go, but at the end of the day we are all good friends so it's all good. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT