CHICK-FIL-A KICKOFF GAME
September 2, 2017
Nick Saban
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Alabama - 24, Florida State - 7   
NICK SABAN: Well, this was obviously a great team win for us.  We have a tremendous amount of respect for Florida State's program, their coach, Jimbo, and their players.  They've got a great defensive team.  And it took everything that we had in all facets of the game, the way we played defense, the turnovers that we got, the difference in special teams in terms of blocked field goal, a blocked punt, as well as a turnover on a kickoff return that gave great field position.   
I think field position was controlled a lot by special teams in the game, which was very good.  Obviously some of the areas that we probably weren't as happy with is consistency on offense, didn't make a lot of explosive plays, had some opportunities, whether it was a lack of protection, quarterback didn't have an opportunity to do what he needed to do, but we didn't have any turnovers.  We didn't have any penalties.  We've got to do a better job of executing on a more consistent basis, but very, very proud of our players, to come and -- first game of the season, you could always pick out a few things that were a little ugly, but I'm really proud of the way they competed.  They played really hard in the game.  It was a tough, physical game, and hopefully we'll focus on improving and do the things that we need from here on out to try to get better as a team.  We certainly know where we're at right now.   
 Q.  Can you just talk about the process in the off-season of what you guys do as a team to capitalize on your opponents' mistakes because that seems to be characteristic for you guys, and especially now in the first game where you're trying to work out kinks, you're trying to figure out things, and again it was on display?  
NICK SABAN: Well, they didn't do a whole lot of stuff that they haven't done in the past, so I think our coaches did a really good job of preparing our team to take advantage of some situations in the kicking game.  The blocked punt was good scheme based on their protection and how they protect.  Should have scooped it and scored it instead of falling on it, but sometimes freshmen are freshmen.   
But we continue to try to look for ways to help our players be successful in all facets of the game, and we're going to continue to do that, and I think they believe in it, buy into it, are committed to it, and practice it so that we can make plays in the game, and it always reinforces their efforts when they do.   
 Q.  What is the status of Rashaan Evans and also Terrell Lewis?  
NICK SABAN: Rashaan Evans has a groin.  They'll have to check it out.  He couldn't play in the second half.  Terrell Lewis has an elbow injury.  His status is very questionable.  Christian Miller has a biceps injury, very questionable, and Anfernee Jennings has a sprained ankle and could not play in the second half.  So we had four linebackers, three outside backers and an inside backer that didn't play much in the second half.   
 Q.  If you could comment on Damien Harris and his play tonight.  
NICK SABAN: I thought Damien did an outstanding job.  He's practiced really well, had a good camp.  The combination of he and Bo, maybe we'll get Jacobs back, Najee Harris, I think all those guys can contribute at that position.  But Damien had a really good night tonight, made some big runs for us.   
 Q.  Was the plan going in to play both Trevon and Levi at corner and what did you see from Levi in particular?  
NICK SABAN: Those two guys have been competing at that position all fall camp.  We busted a couple coverages.  We were really lucky early in the game.  We cut people loose two or three times, not just Trevon, we just made some mental errors, and Levi has got a lot of experience.  He's been in the system for a long time, played very well when he had the opportunity to play.  Very smart player.   
 Q.  I know you haven't seen the tape yet, but how would you evaluate Jalen?  
NICK SABAN: Well, I thought Jalen did a good job.  He did what we asked him to do.  I think a lot of the things that could have been really good plays for Jalen didn't turn out so well because we didn't protect very well.  Now, he will tell you that sometimes he's responsible for that because he can redirect the protection, but there were other times where he made mental errors up front and didn't block them, and we had people open but couldn't get them the ball.   
So the whole deal on offense, we have to do a better job of executing, especially when it comes to the passing game.  They're a pretty good front.  We could complain about running the ball better, but we probably ran it good enough if we could have had the kind of balance that we wanted in the game and been able to protect so that we could make some plays and make some throws down the field.  But I thought Jalen did a good job in the game.   
 Q.  What did you tell them at halftime, and what was the biggest adjustment you feel like was made in the second half?  
NICK SABAN: Well, look, we make a lot of adjustments based on what the other team is doing, but mostly what we go over is the mistakes that we made, and I didn't feel like we executed very well in the first half.  We made a lot of mental errors on fundamental things, and I challenged the players to execute better in the second half, which I think we did.  And I also told them that this was going to be a 60-minute game.  It was going to be a tough game and everybody is going to have to check their hold card to see if they have the kind of will to hang in there because it was a physical game.  We had a lot of guys banged up at halftime, and we had some other guys step up and do a good job for us, so I was really proud of the will to win, the will to hang in there, the perseverance that the players showed, especially in the second half.   
 Q.  You held Florida State to 40 yards rushing.  Was that something that you expected out of your defense, and can you speak on the play of your linebackers?  
NICK SABAN: Well, we had a tremendous respect for Florida State's offense.  The balance that they usually create running the ball and passing the ball and making explosive plays, I think the combination of them only making one explosive play in the game and their inability to consistently run the ball was probably something that was a real benefit to us.  Early in the game, they were moving the ball against us because they were running it three, four, five yards.  We were getting in 3rd and 3, 3rd and 2.  Our plan was to try to pressure the quarterback, could never do it in those situations.  So we started creating more negative circumstances on 1st and 2nd down, which put us in a better position on 3rd down.  When we got into that rhythm, I think we played a little better on defense, but I was very pleased with the way we stopped the run.   
 Q.  At the end of the day, it's a week one win, but did the game itself feel bigger as far as the atmosphere goes?  
NICK SABAN: It was a great atmosphere.  I think the Chick-Fil-a people here do a marvelous job.  The city of Atlanta is very -- the hospitality that they afford us is really appreciated, and we love playing over here.  Our players love playing over here.  I think this Mercedes-Benz Stadium is a fantastic venue to play in.  It was a great experience for our players to have the opportunity to play here, and we played a really good team.  A lot of good things.   
But it's one game.  We have a long season.  We're going to have to get other players ready to compete at a high level that don't have as much experience if we're going to continue to improve as a team, and that's the focus that we have right now is what's ahead, not what's behind.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT