NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINAL: PENGUINS VS SENATORS
May 16, 2017
Mike Hoffman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. (No microphone)?
MIKE HOFFMAN: I mean, those are the opportunities that, you know, it's all we can really ask for.  It's just a matter of executing them.  We scored on plays like that in the regular season, but it also doesn't happen every single time.
We generated chances.  I mean, it's just a matter of bearing down and capitalizing on them.  We've had some open nets, two-on-ones, posts, mini breakaways and stuff.  It's not like we're not getting chances.  It's just a matter of capitalizing on them.
Q. Have you been able to figure out what has to be done to generate more opportunity?
MIKE HOFFMAN: I think, obviously, the more you play in the offensive zone, the better it is.  So we can do a better job at holding on the pucks and trying to make plays and make it tough on their defensemen.
Also, we want to get in front of Fleury.  He's playing really well right now.  Any time we can kind of get in his way is going to make it that much more difficult on him.
Q. Is it a case of what you guys didn't do or what Pittsburgh was able to do?  It seems like they had a huge territorial advantage in Game 2.
MIKE HOFFMAN: Yeah, I mean, we tried to keep it close the whole game and give us a chance to win over the 60 minutes.  That's what we did.  We allowed them to one goal.  They're a very good team.  For us to do that two games in a row is definitely a positive sign.
I think our offense is going to come.  We're going back home, and it's going to be a fun time.  The building is going to be roaring.  So hopefully, that can generate some offense for us as well.
Q. Did you know you guys went 15 minutes without a shot on goal in the third?
MIKE HOFFMAN: I had no idea, no.  We were talking about it afterwards, having a meal here at the hotel.  But, yeah, obviously, that's not what we plan on doing.
Q. At the same time, you've got to be a little bit more anxious to sort of relieve some pressure that maybe your goaltender is feeling as well in tough games like that?
MIKE HOFFMAN: Yeah, he's played really, really good, though, these past two games.  It's unfortunate that we couldn't score a couple more goals for him.  Andy's been solid all year.  He's a big reason why we're here today.
Q. Mike, the way you guys fore-check, is finishing hits still an emphasis for you guys, as much as, say, Washington and Columbus (inaudible)?
MIKE HOFFMAN: It depends.  I don't want to give away too many secrets here, but if the hit's there to make, then, yeah, we do want to play that way.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT