U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 2, 2008
Eduardo Romero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







FULLAUDIOINTERVIEW

  
Q. Another fantastic round. 
 EDUARDO ROMERO: Well, I'm playing great today. I think it was the best round so far all year, because I played very solid, very concentrated, and then I played with a great player like Fred Funk, and then, well, I played fantastic, very solid, very solid.
  
Then I make a couple of mistakes on the back nine and I missed a short  
putt, but that's okay. I'm very happy with my game, especially  
my driver, my putter is working. And then, well, it's one more  
round to go.
 
  
Q. You seem to be out-driving most of the guys, how much of an  
advantage is that?
 EDUARDO ROMERO: Well, I'm playing a completely different golf course, I'm hitting driver and sand wedge and lob-wedge all the way, every hole.
  
And then also the par 5, I hit an 8-iron -- No. 3, I hit an 8-iron and  
No. 9, 7-iron. It's a completely different golf course.
 I  
think the driver is unbelievable. I use the FT-5 and I changed  
my driver, and it's unbelievable. I hit it longer than ten years  
ago when I was younger. I think it's fantastic. I played  
very, very good today, and then, well, tomorrow is another day.
 
  
Q. Fred says he really enjoys playing with you. Do you  
enjoy playing with him as much, and why?
 EDUARDO ROMERO: Yes, always, because you know, playing like with friends, Fred is one of the best players in the world. Playing with him, it's very nice, it's very nice and I really enjoy to see every shot and he's a good putter, too, good driver, and I really enjoyed it. I really enjoyed it.
 
  
Q. Does he bring out best in your game?
  
EDUARDO ROMERO: When I play with a good guy, I play better. 
 
  
Q. Do you feel sorry for him when you walk by his ball each time? 

  
EDUARDO ROMERO: No, no. (Laughter).
 
  
Q. Would winning the Senior Open give you bragging rights over  
Angel after he won the U.S. Open?
 EDUARDO ROMERO: Yes, Angel won the U.S. Open last year, and then, well, it's a good combination for South America, for Argentina, as well, and it's basically for me. It's a dream to win the U.S. Open, yeah.
 
  
Q. And this week? 
  
EDUARDO ROMERO: Yes. 
 
  
Q. Texting or calling?
 EDUARDO ROMERO: Yes, Cabrera called me last night and said to me, "Eduardo, I'm waiting over here." I don't know if he was in America or not. He pushed me. He's a great friend.
 
  
Q. There were a group of Argentinians on No. 10 and they said  
you were a genius in Spanish. Do you remember that? 
  
EDUARDO ROMERO: Yes. 
 
  
Q. Did that pep you up some? 
 EDUARDO ROMERO: Well, yes, when the people say -- when the fans say something good to you, it's very good. I feel very nice. And then it's a lot of -- I don't know if it's Spanish, but I heard a few words in Spanish from the gallery, and that's good. 

 
  
Q. So what do you think it's going to take to win this open  
tomorrow?
  
EDUARDO ROMERO: Tomorrow I have to make three -- between 3- and  
4-under and I win the tournament. I need 3- or 4-under. 
 
  
Q. Seeing the low scores, did that spark you at all or really  
motivate you to have to really go low today when you saw the early  
scores posted?
 EDUARDO ROMERO: Yes, tomorrow is a completely different day, completely different day because it's last rounds. Everybody will play very carefully tomorrow, and I will try my best tomorrow. I come here to win the tournament and I'll try my best for tomorrow.
 
  
Q. How will you prepare for tomorrow's round tonight? 
 EDUARDO ROMERO: Today I go to the Argentinian restaurant and eat a big steak and then sleep, and then just practice a lot tomorrow before I start my round. I think that's the way to do it tomorrow.
 End of FastScripts 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT