THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
July 26, 2008
Eduardo Romero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   EDUARDO ROMERO: I am happy with today. I played well, driving, putting.  
 This year my putter is working very nice and I'm a completely different player this year. I think it's my week. I will do my best tomorrow, exactly the same as yesterday and today, put the ball in the fairway and make the putts.  
 All the Argentines, we are bad in putting, except Andres Romero. I changed to the belly because before that it was a disaster: 36 putts, 34 putts. And first time I used the long one, I take one week off and then putting every day, four hours, putting, putting, putting and that give me a lot of confidence, and coming to America, and I win the tournament.   
 It's hard work I think. I'm putting four hours a day and I feel it gives me a lot of confidence, especially the putting and my driving and all my game.   
  
  Q. You've been practicing putting back home in Argentina?  
 EDUARDO ROMERO: Yeah, I'm back home in Argentina and then I have good greens over there on my home golf course over there. It's a very nice green and I'm putting a lot and practising a lot and still working.   
  
  Q. What do you think will be the focus tomorrow?  
 EDUARDO ROMERO: I think tomorrow it all depends on the weather. You never know what happens over here. But if the weather stays like this, 7-under, 8-under can win. Especially Tom Watson, he's very dangerous, you have to watch him.   
  
  Q. Why are the Argentines bad putters then?  
 EDUARDO ROMERO: Worst putters, I don't know why. Probably because we have bad greens over there, I don't know. But when Roberto De Vicenzo said to me, I never saw the Argentineans making good putting, and now Andres Romero is one of the best putters, and now Eduardo Romero, too.   
 Cabrera and Gonzalez and Vancsik -- I don't know why; I don't know.   
 STEVE TODD: Thank you, and good luck tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT