THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
July 25, 2008
Eduardo Romero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   STEVE TODD: You said yesterday this could be your week, and so far, so good. 
 EDUARDO ROMERO: Yes, and today was a little more difficult than yesterday. The wind is more hard today. Still the key for me is the putter. I'm still putting good, very good. My game is not what's good today. 
 But my putter is very, very good. It gave me a lot of confidence and missed the shots and it's no problem because I'm putting good. When I'm putting good, I play very relaxed. Still 1-under, and it's good. Still happy I'm in the red group. 
 STEVE TODD: You said 17 was quite tricky today. 
 EDUARDO ROMERO: Yeah, it's very difficult to catch the distance. I hit it 205-yard 9-iron, and then I just leave it short for 15 yards to and to make a bogey from there. 
 And No. 11, I hit an 8-iron 225 yards with 8-iron, which it's difficult to control the distance. It's very, very difficult but, well, it's the same for everybody. I make a mistake and it was my fault today but it's still 1-under, it's okay. I'll be there. 
 STEVE TODD: The way the scoring is going, 1-under is looking good. 
 EDUARDO ROMERO: Yeah, I said to my caddie, if we still finish with red numbers, it's okay, because today's a little more difficult and it's true. 3-under is leading now, but a lot of holes to play, especially the back nine is more difficult today. 

 Q. Inaudible? 
 EDUARDO ROMERO: Yes, I think it's the wrong tee, if you put the tee to the left on No. 11, it's much difficult, too, but you can see the fairway. From there it's not a driver hole. I think I hit a 6-iron from the tee. Woosnam played in front of us, hit 5-iron; Sam Torrance, 5-iron; and it's very difficult to drive that hole. I think today the most difficult hole was No. 11, for sure, many bogeys today. 
 Exactly what I say, I feel more tired today than yesterday and there's still more days to go. Yesterday I was tired but today I'm dead (chuckling). Two more days to go, it's very hard to be there and concentrating. 

 Q. After Greg Norman's performance last week --
 EDUARDO ROMERO: Exactly. That's what he said when somebody tells me, you think Greg Norman played good last week, I don't think he's ready for this week, too. You know, it's very difficult to concentrate when you're very tired, of course. 

 Q. With Argentine players doing well now -- how did that work? 
 EDUARDO ROMERO: We're working hard. Many years ago when it started playing, we worked with young players over there. The Argentinean PGA did a very good job over there to make tournaments for the young players, and then it was not so bright for me. I see Andres Romero, and Rafa Echenique, Daniel Vancsik, and Rodolfo Gonzalez, he's 45, 43 years old but good younger players coming, because we're working hard. And then Cabrera after he won the U.S. Open, the golf in Argentina, it was completely different, it's going up and up, and now you see 24 hours a day GOLF CHANNEL over there. This is very important, not just for Argentina, but for South America. It's very important. 

 Q. Inaudible?
 EDUARDO ROMERO: I think Fernandez is older than me. 
 STEVE TODD: Thank you, Eduardo. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT