THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
July 24, 2008
Eduardo Romero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   STEVE TODD: Well played today. You've obviously got a fondness for this Championship, having finished well in the past and started well today.   
 EDUARDO ROMERO: Yeah, I love this tournament. You know, last year and the year before, I just missed by a couple of shots, and I love playing here. I've played for 30 years in Europe, and when I come here, it's like home. And especially this tournament, the British Open for me is a very special tournament. I will try my best to win this tournament, and I started very good today. IT'S the first round, but there's three more rounds to go. I'm still in the top group and I'm very happy.   
 STEVE TODD: You come in in good form having won in New York three weeks ago.   
 EDUARDO ROMERO: Yes, I won a tournament over there, it was my second tournament after two years. I win a tournament in 2006 and then three weeks ago in New York, and then I come in in good form, especially my putting. In the last few years I've been putting better now and I'm working hard; and my putting, it's 24 putts, 25 putts, 27 putts, it's very good and the scores are low, but I think the key is the putting.   
 STEVE TODD: Just the one dropped shot on 6 today.   
 EDUARDO ROMERO: No. 6, the par 5, I made a mistake there and I hit the driver into the bunker and had to lay up just two yards from there and chipped and putted green and 2-putteded.   
 But I made a mistake with the tee shot. I had good concentration and I know playing links golf course, you know what happens, bogeys and double-bogeys are normal. I think 3-under is very good in the first round and I'm very happy.  
 I think the best hole today was 17 when I made a birdie. I needed 9-iron 20 one hundred and something yards. It's downwind and -- I think 205, but it's unbelievable, downwind, and my caddie said between 8 and 9. 9-iron? Well, it was 9-iron, just by the flag and made a good putt for birdie, but it was very hard today.   
 And then, well it's typical links golf course.   
  
  Q. How long was the putt?  
 EDUARDO ROMERO: Probably between 12 and 15 feet.   
  
  Q. When you come here to Troon this week, is that what's in your mind, that you like to be here?  
 EDUARDO ROMERO: Yes, the last time I was here was the regular British Open and I played very good. I played very good and I played with Tom Watson in the first round and I played with Sandy Lyle in the third round, I think I finished Top-10 there, I can't remember, but I played good.   
 And Troon is one of my favourite golf course, I don't know why, but when I see Seve over here, I missed the cut and I followed Seve the last two days and I have in my memory every hole, Troon. And when I come to Scotland, Scotland are like the Argentine people, very similar, and I have a lot of friends here and I really enjoy coming here.   
  
  Q. How far do you normally hit a nine iron  
EDUARDO ROMERO: It was 205 to the flag and just past ten yards. Normally it's 145.   
  
  Q. Sandy Lyle did the same and said he felt like Tiger Woods --  
 EDUARDO ROMERO: Yeah, me, too, unbelievable, 210 yards with 9-iron. And then also, the 16th hole, I laid up 280 yards to the water, 4-iron, and it's into the water. It's crazy.   
 And then I made a good putt there, but I'm playing with 4-iron and I go into the water 280 yards, and then the wind is down, it's very difficult to control the distance.   
  
  Q. It's getting harder every year to win this tournament because more players are coming on, like Sandy Lyle this year, for instance; is it more difficult?  
 EDUARDO ROMERO: Of course, and I think Loren Roberts and Jay Haas, two good players, and O'Meara is here, Langer is here, Woosnam is here, Greg Norman is here, and I think it's more difficult than last year and a couple years ago.   
 But I'm in good form and I feel strong and I feel good and I feel happy. Probably it's my week. I think it's my week. (Chuckling).  
 STEVE TODD: Thank you for coming in.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT