U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 6, 2007
Eduardo Romero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  I know it wasn't as easy as yesterday but --   
   EDUARDO ROMERO: Yeah, it was just today I don't feel good. Yesterday after finishing I go to the practice range and then I hit a bag, and then my back, it was hurt, but it is okay now. I don't play very good today; I just make triple bogey on the last hole and then it was a big mistake.   



 Sometimes it happens with the golf.  But I'm still 1-under and there is two more rounds to go, and then I have to play good on the weekend.   
 But it's -- today I think that I don't feel very good, but it is okay.  Two more rounds to go.   
  
  Q.  What got you into trouble up there on 18?   
   EDUARDO ROMERO: The bad tee shot and then terrible lie in the bunker. I had to drop it and then hit another bunker there and then into the water, and then to the green and 2-putted, but something happened. But I make a good triple bogey. Because I think that quadruple bogey was right there for me. But just 7 it's no good for a finish. But there's two more days to go.   
  
  Q.  Is your memory such that you can forget that one pretty quickly?   
   EDUARDO ROMERO: Oh, yes, of course, of course. Tomorrow is another day. There's two more rounds to go. And then probably my back is better tomorrow and then see what happens.   



 But it's two more rounds to go.  I'm still there, just 1-under.   
  
  Q.  I saw you earlier putting something on your back.  Tell me about your back?   
   EDUARDO ROMERO: Yeah, some cream, to see what happened. But the pain is still there. Especially when I hit the driver I feel something painful in the back. But it is okay. But I go to the physician now and see what happens and I'll be ready for tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  Did you take an unplayable in the bunker?   
   EDUARDO ROMERO: Yes, but it was without penalty because I'm -- yeah, there was a sprinkler in the middle of the bunker and I dropped it without penalty. The penalty was in the water over here on the third shot. And sixth shot on the green and 2-putted. Two 2-putts, sorry.     
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT