U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 5, 2007
Eduardo Romero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Eduardo, let's start with a great round.  You really made it happen almost all day. 
  EDUARDO ROMERO: Well, I'm playing very good today. I'm playing fantastic today. And then I make a good putt. And then I have a good lucky shot also. Because sometimes the nerves are a little unlucky, but I played good. 



 I had good concentration, I put the ball in the fairway and I'm swinging good.  I'm swinging fantastic.  I changed a little thing just before today and I swing fantastic.  Very confident.  A lot of confidence with my swing. 

 Q.  The wind wasn't -- well it's kicking up now, but how was the wind today? 
  EDUARDO ROMERO: It's not a lot this morning. It was perfect this morning. But I love to play with wind. I like to play courses like this because I'm playing for 22 years in European then Venezuela is similar to links golf courses over there and then a lot of wind and big rougher and long golf course. And it's good. Today was a very nice day. 

 Q.  You hit a lot of putts today.  How confident are you with the putter? 
  EDUARDO ROMERO: It was a lot of confidence with my putter. Just missed a couple good ones, but I make a good one, long one. But, you know, I'm very happy with my swing, my game and I know it's a long way to go, it's three more rounds, but I'm still there. I'm still there. 

 Q.  Can't let you go without talking about that eagle.  I know it was going pretty hard when it hit the hole, but -- 
  EDUARDO ROMERO: Yeah, it was. I know it was very hard. But it was a lucky putt. Hit in the middle of the hole and made it. But if not, it's probably off the green. But it's just great. I make eagle and it's good. 

 Q.  And obviously you played the last two weeks you've been talking about your friend and now we're spending a little time talking about you and your game. 
  EDUARDO ROMERO: Yeah, that's good. It's good. I'm probably -- I tell the guys, if you win two U.S. Open in one month it was very fantastic. But this is a long way to go. I don't want to say that, but I'm still there. I'm still there. 

 Q.  6-under par, do you think that's what's going to have to keep going here? 
  EDUARDO ROMERO: Oh, yes. And, well, I played great today. I missed, I thought I missed a good putt, but I made a good one. But it's just started, it's a long way to go. But my swing's good, my concentration is good. I come here to win this tournament. I'm prepared for win this tournament. And then I see what happens this opening round is good. 


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT