SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 27, 2007
Eduardo Romero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   KELLY ELBIN:  Eduardo Romero, ladies and gentlemen, the runner-up in the 68th Senior PGA Championship.  Eduardo finished today with an even par score of 72.  For a 281 total, two strokes behind the champion, Denis Watson.   
 Eduardo, thoughts on your round.  Obviously everything seemed to hinge around what happened on number 14 today.   
 EDUARDO ROMERO:  Oh, I've been there.  I missed two shots this week.  It was at 13 and then at 14.  It cost me a lot.  It cost me a double bogey there.  Then he made birdie and then that's three strokes in one hole is too much.   
 But the -- I played good, I was just unlucky and played bad for one hole and then I just lost the tournament by that.   
 I'm very happy with my game.  Very sad for no win this week, because I feel very strong, I feel I was playing fantastic, but the golf it's like this.  Sometimes you win, some time lose.   
 But I'm very sad, I'm very sad.  I think I should have won the tournament, but golf is like this.   
 KELLY ELBIN:  Thank you for joining us.  Could you go through your birdies and others today, please.   
 EDUARDO ROMERO:  Yeah, I make the first birdie today was number 3.  Driver and 8-iron and 1-putt from three feet.   
 Then the second birdie was on the par-5.  Just a driver and 5-iron and good chance to make eagle.  But just miss putt from 10 feet for eagle and make putt, make 2-putt for birdie.   
 Then 11 hole is another good shot driver and 6-iron for second shot and 2-putt from 10 feet for birdie.   
 Good birdie No. 12.  I hit a good driver, a 9-iron and then 1-putt from two feet.  No, more than that, five feet.   
 Then I bogey the 13th.  Just pulled the second shot into the, off the green, off the left, and then it's impossible to make a chip and putt from there.  Good bogey.   
 And then double bogey on 14.  I hit good 5-iron, but pulled it.  It was unplayable in the bunker.  And then no chance to hit it from there.  And then unplayable.  And I make double bogey and I think the tournament's gone there.   
 I try to make birdie on 16, but I think the tournament it was the 14th hole there.   
 But it was the only shot that I missed was 14 today.   
 Then I make 14 was double bogey and then all pars.   
 I can't make birdie on 16.   
 And I miss a good chance for birdie at 18.   
 But I play good.  I played good all week.  Just missed two shots today and I lost the tournament.  But it is okay.  It is okay.   
 KELLY ELBIN:  For the record, Eduardo played the par-5s in 11-under par this week.  Open it up for questions, please.   
  
  Q.  When you pulled the tee shot on 14, did you know it was going to plug and what did you think when you first saw it?   
 EDUARDO ROMERO:  No, I know it's a plug.  Because I saw from the tee.  I know when the ball is going there it's for sure it's go there and that's all.  I saw the ball was hit there and it never came down and I said that I know from the tee.  I walking and thinking to make four is good.  But make double.   
  
  Q.  Can you explain or describe the lie that you had after the drop, because on television it looks like it kind of nestled down a little on you?   
 EDUARDO ROMERO:  Well it was terrible drop also.  Terrible.  And the ball is plugged again.  And then it's a shot from 30 yard, but the bunker is on the way there and I have to pass a little bit, because it was very, very difficult shot.  But okay, I make, I hit a good shot and then just missed for bogey.  But what can I say?  Nothing else to say.   
  
  Q.  Just out of curiosity, you said you pulled the shot the second shot on 13.  That didn't happen to be the same club, did it?   
 EDUARDO ROMERO:  No, no.  It was perfect lie.  But I -- but it's downhill, it's, the water is in back of the green.   
  
  Q.  What was the club you hit into 13?   
 EDUARDO ROMERO:  13 second shot was 6-iron.   
  
  Q.  Can you just talk about your play in the Majors, you obviously have got a great record on the Champions Tour in the Majors, and despite not winning today, it's still a very high finish.   
 EDUARDO ROMERO:  Yeah, it's very good.  I'm very happy.  I love playing in the Majors.  And there is one more to go or two more to go, U.S. Open and British Senior Open.  And I'll try my best, you about I love to play the Majors, because the courses are challenging, especially this one.  And I love to play the Majors, yeah.   
  
  Q.  As well as you played through 13 holes, 12 holes, were you surprised you couldn't shake Denis?   
 EDUARDO ROMERO:  Yeah, Denis played very good.  Denis is a great champion.  Very fantastic today.  Fantastic.  And then he make good putts for pars and good putts for birdies.   
 But I'm, I look to Nick, I'm watching Nick.  But I never, I wasn't thinking of Denis.  But when Denis make birdie and birdie and was close to me and I thought well, now it's Denis.  But I'm watching Nick.   
 But Denis played fantastic.  He's a great champion.  He's a fantastic player.   
 KELLY ELBIN:  Eduardo Romero, runner-up in the 68th Senior PGA Championship.  Thank you.   
 EDUARDO ROMERO:  Thank you, guys.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT