SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 25, 2007
Eduardo Romero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   KELLY ELBIN:  Eduardo Romero, ladies and gentlemen, in with a 2-under par 70, the leader at the midpoint of the 68th Senior PGA Championship at the Ocean Course at Kiawah Island Golf Resort.  Two round total of 138, 6-under par. 
 Eduardo, it must be a good feeling to be in front halfway through. 
 EDUARDO ROMERO:  Yeah.  Well, today I'm playing different than yesterday.  Today my swing is, when I start, it's not too good.  But after nine holes, my swing has come back and then my concentration has come back.  But it is okay.  I played -- 2-under is a perfect round for today.  And then I start for the tournament.  But I didn't start very good. 
 I make birdie on No. 11, par-5.  I hit a fantastic driver again.  And then I hit a 5-iron.  And then 2-putt from 10 feet. 
 Then another good birdie on No. 12.  I hit a driver, a pitching wedge, and 1-putt from three feet. 
 Then the next one I make bogey on the par number 14.  Just missed the tee shot and my ball is unplayable in the bunker.  But just chip it on to the green and then 2-putt for bogey. 
 I missed a good chance on the 15th hole, just missed a putt from two feet for birdie. 
 I made another good birdie on No. 16, the par-5.  Hit driver, lay up, and then sand wedge and 1-putt from 10 feet. 
 Then bogeyed the 17th.  Stupid bogey, just missed the green to the left and missed a putt from three feet for par. 
 Then -- well I finished there 1-under there for the first back nine. 
 Then I started with all pars except on the number 7, the par-5. 
 Then I hit a fantastic driver today I think the best driver today, 380 something yards.  And then it's a downwind hole, of course.  And 7-iron for the second shot and missed a putt for eagle from 10 feet.  And then 2-putt for birdie. 
 Good putt on 8. 
 I missed another chance for birdie on No. 9.  But I played good.  Very solid. 
 And then the first nine was, I don't know what happened, my swing, my concentration, but after that I'm recovered completely and then I start to play good. 
 But 2-under is okay.  It's two more rounds to go and tomorrow is the third day and I know everybody, it's a very important day for everybody tomorrow, the third round is very important.  I'll try my best for tomorrow and then see what happens for the last day. 
 But I continue good.  I'm very relaxed and I'm concentrating well.  And I'll just wait and I'll see what happens. 
 KELLY ELBIN:  Very good.  Open it up for questions. 

 Q.  Is a two stroke lead on this course with these conditions kind of like a four or five stroke lead going into another round? 
 EDUARDO ROMERO:  Yeah, I think so.  I think it's -- well it's not the scores easy, you have to be very careful on this golf course because when you lost the concentration for couple seconds you can make a double or triple bogey like that quickly.  Like Dana Quigley today on 17 made 8.  He put a ball in the water.  And then also Ben Crenshaw made double bogey. 
 I know this course is very difficult.  You have to be very patient, very quiet.  I know two strokes is nothing on this course is nothing.  You have to play it very careful. 

 Q.  Did I understand correctly you said on 7 your driver drive was 390; and if so, what yardage did you have left into the green and what club did you hit there? 
 EDUARDO ROMERO:  Well, from then I have 178 yards to the front and plus 13 more.  But I hit a 7-iron.  Normally I hit it 180 yard with 7-iron.  But it's downwind and I hit a good 7-iron and just past the flag for seven feet. 
 But I hit it 380 something.  385.  I think it was the most longest drive on the week today.  Fantastic.  Perfect.  Good line over the bunkers, just perfect. 

 Q.  Apparently you weren't lying to us yesterday when you said you enjoyed playing in the wind.  Would you like to see these conditions continue? 
 EDUARDO ROMERO:  Oh, yes, of course.  I cross the fingers for continue like this (Indicating).  Because that is, I know it's very tough, but I love to play with the wind.  Yesterday I told you normally I play in this wind in my country in Argentina and also in England and Scotland, and I love to play with the wind.  I love it. 

 Q.  How much benefit is your power week to week and on a course like this, to be able to rip a 380 yard drive downwind, but still. 
 EDUARDO ROMERO:  Yeah, you know, all the also the golf course is very hard.  The ball just, I hit the ball low ball and then the ball is running and running and running.  For example, on another course probably I have less distance than today or this week, because the course is hard, very hard. 
 But it's, normally I'm playing the hard course normally in Argentina, in Ireland.  When the course is like this, my distance is unbelievable. 

 Q.  You talked about how difficult this course could be, how have you avoided any of those big numbers that you, that some of the other competitors have put up there, really good competitors have gotten stuck with some triple bogeys and double bogeys and you've avoided all that. 
 EDUARDO ROMERO:  Well, I tell you, this course, it's very tough.  I say to my caddie today, you have to play very careful because the double bogey and triple bogey is waiting for us behind the green.  You know, we have to be very concentrated, you know.  I know just Ben Crenshaw and other good players make double bogey easy.  It's very difficult.  I know that.  I have to be very careful. 
 Today I'm playing the fairway, try to put ball in the fairway, put it on the green, and 2-putt and let's go.  Come on let's go.  Just make par and let's go.  That's how I play like this today.  Tomorrow probably just do the same. 
 KELLY ELBIN:  For the record, over the 36 holes Eduardo has only two scores of fives, all the rests are threes and fours. 

 Q.  You used the word patience in playing out here.  Nick Price was in, he used the same word several times, patience on this golf course.  Is patience normally a good attribute of yours, are you normally a patient player? 
 EDUARDO ROMERO:  Exactly.  Exactly.  Because not all the golf course, for example, this golf course especially, it's, you have to be a lot of patience, because you can make double bogey easy.  But you hit, you play the ball in the fairway and then very carefully.  Patience.  I have a lot of patience, of course.  I've played courses like this many times. 
 KELLY ELBIN:  Eduardo Romero, midway leader at the Senior PGA Championship.  Thank you, sir. 
 EDUARDO ROMERO:  Thank you.  See you tomorrow. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT