SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 24, 2007
Eduardo Romero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   KELLY ELBIN:  Eduardo Romero, ladies and gentlemen.  The leader at this point of the 68th Senior PGA Championship.  In with around of 4-under par 68.   
 Eduardo, congratulations, some thoughts on your round today.   
 EDUARDO ROMERO:  Yeah, I played good today.  I think I just make no mistake except the last hole.  I bogeyed the last hole.  But I played all day very good.   
 I hit the driver in the fairway, good putting, good concentration, very solid.  And it's very good for me to start like this.  Because normally I'm just a bad starter in all the tournaments and then I get better and better, but it's tough to do.  But 4-under is perfect.   
 Today I make five birdies, just one bogey on 18.  Stupid on that.  I missed short putt for par.  But it is okay.  Because the day was perfect today.  Very nice.  Very nice.   
 KELLY ELBIN:  You had all 4s and 3s on your card up until 18.  Could you go through your birdie and bogeys, please.   
 EDUARDO ROMERO:  Well, I was starting on No. 2 there.  No. 2 is a par-5.  I hit a good driver and just lay up and then just chip and one putt from two feet for birdie.   
 The second birdie was number 7.  Another par-5.  Hit a driver, good driver, 5-iron, chip and 1-putt from two feet for birdie too.   
 Then number 10 it was a big, huge driver on number 10.  And then hit a sand wedge.  I think it was 80 yards short from the flag.  360 something was the driver.  Then just sand wedge or lob wedge and make one putt from three feet.   
 11 hole, par-5 also.  Fantastic driver and then 5-iron for the second shot and 2-putt for birdie from seven feet.   
 16, another par-5.  Good driver, lay up with a second shot, 9-iron third shot, and then 1-putt from five feet for birdie.   
 Then I make good par on 17.   
 And then make bogey on the last hole.  Just I think it was wrong club on the second shot into 18.  I hit an 8-iron and it was probably 7-iron into the wind, because it was uphill.  But okay.  But just play good.  I missed a good putt from one feet, one feet and a half or so for par.  But I'm very happy with my game.  I'm very solid, very good and I concentrated and I think it's a good start.   
 KELLY ELBIN:  Very good.  Open it up for questions.   
  
  Q.  With a 68 today do you think this number will hold up for the rest of the day?   
 EDUARDO ROMERO:  Yeah, I think 68 is fantastic round.  This morning I talked with my caddie and I said, "What score would you like for today?"  My caddie said, "71, that's perfect."  But I make 68.  It's much better.   
 But I think it's, and you know, especially when you start this morning and it's not wind and now there's a lot of wind.  Especially the back nine with the very tough very hard holes coming in, 16, 15, 16, and 17 and also 18.  But it is okay.  I'm playing fantastic today.  Very good.   
  
  Q.  Tell us about playing 17 today.  Do you think it's the hardest hole on the course according to the stats?   
 EDUARDO ROMERO:  17 I think is the more difficult hole on the golf course today.  And especially with this wind.  I hit a 4-iron, full 4-iron.  And I hit it 215, 220 yards with 4-iron.  And then I think it was 188 to the flag, but the wind is hard and I hit a full 4-iron.  Just pulled it a little bit.  Just my chip was good.  But I think it's the more difficult hole today is the 17.  Especially with this wind.  It's very scary standing on the tee.  Very, very scary.   
  
  Q.  How did you handle the wind?  So many players are talking about how it affected their game today, it didn't seem -- it seemed like you hit a number of good strong drives despite the wind being there?   
 EDUARDO ROMERO:  I think normally when we live in Argentina, the wind is like this all the time.  Also I'm playing in Europe for 22 years and this is just like England, the England, the Scottish courses.  And I feel very comfortable with this wind.  I'm playing a lot of times in this wind.   
  
  Q.  Would you like to see it continue?   
 EDUARDO ROMERO:  Oh, yes, of course.   
 (Laughter.)   
  
  Q.  Besides the fact that you have experience playing in the wind, what about your game makes it particularly suited?  Are you a low ball player, what do you do with your game to make it work well in the wind?   
 EDUARDO ROMERO:  My normal swing especially I hit a low ball all the time.  When I have to hit a high ball I have to change my swing.  But today with this wind I nothing to change in my swing.  It just was very normal for me with wind like this.  I never changed nothing today.   
 Normally when it was without wind I go to the practice and I have to try something new to try to get the ball more high.  But not today.  Today was normal swing and it was perfect.  With this wind, for my swing, it's perfect.   
  
  Q.  Was it a wind you had to adjust to constantly or was there something you could pick up and say, it's going to be this for all of these holes going down wind?   
 EDUARDO ROMERO:  It's very difficult to hear you with the wind.   
  
  Q.  Was it a wind that you made one adjustment or were you constantly having to make adjustments as to what club and how much club to play?   
 EDUARDO ROMERO:  It's very difficult to be concentrating with this wind because every hole is different.  Sometimes it's into the wind, downwind, cross wind, you have to be very focused, very concentrated to play.  But I tell you, we play with this wind for 20 years.  For us it's normal wind like this.  And raining also and more cold too.  English weather.   
 KELLY ELBIN:  Eduardo, what would it mean to win this championship for you in your career?   
 EDUARDO ROMERO:  Oh, it's a dream.  To win this PGA for me is, I think it's one of the more important things in my life to win a PGA in America, fantastic.  I will try hard.  I'm very concentrating this week, I'm trying my best, because it's very, very important for my career to win the PGA.  Of course.   
 KELLY ELBIN:  Eduardo Romero the leader at the 68th Senior PGA Championship.  Thank you.   
 EDUARDO ROMERO:  Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT