SENIOR BRITISH OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 28, 2006
Eduardo Romero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








EDUARDO ROMERO:  I was a little lucky also because I missed a couple shots but I had good luck, and then, well, I'm happy with my game, yeah.  I played fantastic today.  You know, just I think I'm playing only nine holes.  (Laughter).
STEVEN FRANKLIN:  Maybe tell the guys, you said that obviously putting has been your weakness this year and you've been trying to work on it psychologically?
EDUARDO ROMERO:  Well, I'm doing yoga.  Many people know I'm doing yoga for five years and I take a rest this year.  I just don't do yoga this year because I want to rest for one year.

But I'm doing for five years, and then just I focus on the putter because my big problem it was the putter all the time.  All my life it was the putter.  Sometimes when I win a tournament, because I have a good week with the putter.  I'm working hard with the putter just trying to concentrate.  It's very hard.  I have to work hard to concentrate with my putter, you know.  But I'm doing very well and then when I concentrate with my putter, it is much easier.
STEVEN FRANKLIN:  Well, you stopped the yoga, so you're using all your concentration for the putter.
EDUARDO ROMERO:  Normally people say when you're doing yoga for a couple years you have to rest at least one year, so I'm doing five years, so that's what I do.
Q.  Have you always struggled with the putting?
EDUARDO ROMERO:  For me, the putter was a terrible club.  It was; not now.  (Laughter).
Q.  Inaudible?
EDUARDO ROMERO:  I have a lot of Scottish friends and this is very similar to courses in Argentina, very similar, very similar.  I feel like home, yeah, especially when my family is coming to see me over here and I feel really, really at home.
Q.  Inaudible?
EDUARDO ROMERO:  Yeah, I rented a house in Peebles (ph) over here, just several miles from here and, wow, it's like home.
STEVEN FRANKLIN:  We'll do your card, Eduardo.  We'll get the details.  We have a few to get to.
EDUARDO ROMERO:  4, the par 3, 7 iron and one putt from    no, 8 iron and one putt from two feet.

7, the par 5, driver tee shot and just lay up and fantastic chip and then one putt from one foot.  2 under for the first nine.

11, long putt, 9 iron and one putt from ten feet.

12, driver and 9 iron and one putt from five feet.

13, I just hit the tee shot into the bushes and laid up and made the putt from four feet.

14, good birdie.  It's a driver and 9 iron and one putt from seven feet.

17, the longest drive, 379, unbelievable.  But I never hit that distance before, never.  Then I hit sand wedge 110 yards to the hole, sand wedge, I made three, fantastic three.
Q.  How far to the hole?
EDUARDO ROMERO:  125.  The putt, it was four feet for eagle.  It was a fantastic three shots, driver, second shot and the putter.

18, just a little luck, hit the ball, the second shot    it found the green and ran up and one putt from two feet.  Really, I feel very, very strong today and very confident, very confident and very happy with my game.
Q.  Is there a big difference
EDUARDO ROMERO:  Oh, I'm still    but if you win here, I don't like to say before but if you win a tournament, I have to change my play, you know.  I have to play in America and probably move to America and then win a couple tournaments.
Q.  Would this rank as your best round ever?
EDUARDO ROMERO:  Well, I think he's one of the best.  I have made 62 in Argentina on my home course, but 63 in Europe, I think one more time it was in Loch Lomond I think, second round, or Switzerland.
STEVEN FRANKLIN:  What would winning the event mean, the actual event, winning the title here, how would that rank?
EDUARDO ROMERO:  Well, I think this is my first big, big event on the Senior Tour.  It's different, different, you know.  But it's very important.  It's very important for my career, for my life.
Q.  Inaudible?
EDUARDO ROMERO:  Well, I remember the last time we played here, Jesper Parnevik missed a second shot on the last hole and made eagle on the 17th and    won by one or two.  I played at that time but I don't remember if I made the cut.  I remember watching on TV, I remember that hole, the big mistake Jesper Parnevik made.  Every time they come to the 18th hole, I think, don't forget Jesper Parnevik missed to the right.  (Laughter).
Q.  Inaudible?
EDUARDO ROMERO:  No.  I think, well, you know, sometimes the tournaments    what's the difference between this tournament and other tournaments.  This tournament is particularly because another part of my life, you know.  I win one tournament last year.  But to win the British Open for me    it's the British Open, senior or British Open, I try my best.  But I haven't won yet.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT