SENIOR BRITISH OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 22, 2004
Eduardo Romero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  That was a nice start to your first senior event?
EDUARDO ROMERO:  Oh yes I am very happy with that. It's my first tournament and I can see my old friends that I have known for a long time. I really enjoyed it and the company. I played with Ben Crenshaw, who is my hero. I played a fantastic golf course today. It was good today, I hit it very solid. I put the ball in the fairway which I think is very important. The scores is 69 today but I think the key was to keep the ball in the fairway from the tee. I am very happy with my opening round.
Q.  How were the conditions?
EDUARDO ROMERO:  The condition of the golf course is fantastic. The greens are a little bumpy but it has been okay. I have never been here before but Darren Clarke and Paul McGinley told me it was the best course in Northern Ireland. When I see the golf course and play it I see that it is fantastic. It's very, very nice. Especially the back nine there are some very tough holes. With this wind, the cross wind, and it is very difficult to control the ball. It's a fantastic golf course.
Q.  How many practice rounds did you play?
EDUARDO ROMERO:  On Monday, Tuesday in the Pro-Am and yesterday. On Monday I played just played three or four holes. I have played about 40 holes before the start of the tournament. I am really enjoying it on the Senior Tour. It is a little strange. I missed a couple of tee shots, on the back nine on the 15 and the 16. If you go to the rough you are dead. It's good, it's typical of the links golf course. All the links courses are like this. In the bunker you are dead.

Did you feel different on this Tour?
EDUARDO ROMERO:  You know everything is new for me. The locker room, the guys. When I walk on the course, I like to see Tiger Woods for example but I don't see that. I see different guys but I really enjoyed it. I am very happy to be here.
Q.  Did you feel nervous at all?
EDUARDO ROMERO:  Yes I was a little bit nervous. It's unbelievable. I turned to my caddie and said I feel nervous. Come on my caddie say why you feel nervous, I don't know. On the first shot today I was very nervous and the second shot. I don't know why. It's all new for me. I really enjoyed it today.
Q.  Did you bring your own caddie with you?
EDUARDO ROMERO:  Yes, yes, it's my caddie, my new caddie. He is caddying for me this year, my old caddie retired last year. He is Rodolfo Rodriguez. He is a professional in Argentina. He has decided to take my bag for one year to see what happens.
Q.  Were you more relaxed out there compared with normal European Tour events?
EDUARDO ROMERO:  It was very good from yesterday's practice round when many people followed me. I am in Ireland. It is a very good country.  I have a lot of friends here, very nice people and friendly people. I really like to play in Ireland. When my mother told me you have to play in the Senior British Open I say where is it being played she said Ireland then I said I will go.
Q.  Is this going to be your only senior event this year?
EDUARDO ROMERO:  I don't know. I have to play on the regular tour. I will play this one and then go home for maybe one or two weeks and then go to the PGA in America and then back to Europe. Maybe I will play one more. Then I have to go to the school in America. If I win this week maybe not.
Q.  How do you become exempt for the school?
EDUARDO ROMERO:  I am not thinking of the senior school right now, I am thinking of the regular tour. After this week,  I will see what happens. I don't feel 50; I feel 35. I feel strong. I am still hitting it 310 yards with the driver. It's unbelievable. I am very surprised.
Q.  Did you use the driver today?
EDUARDO ROMERO:  I used the driver one time today and I hit it 335 yards. It was downwind but I hit it long.  I used one iron most of the time. I think I have to use it many times this week.  All week.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT