VOLVO PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 24, 2002
Eduardo Romero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MARIA ACACIA: Eduardo, well done.  68, 4-under, 9-under for your total.  Was it that bad the first shot on the eagle, the 11th?
EDUARDO ROMERO: Yeah, it was a lucky shot.  I hit it terrible but -- not terrible, but good shot from the tee.  I just -- the ball hit on the tree, come just near the tree one meter and then 135 yards from there.  Hit a 9-iron, just run up, just pitch on front of the green.   It was perfect shot because -- lucky too.  Ball go a little to the left, then come in.  But I played very good.  Good concentration today.  I know when the wind is hard, I need more concentration than normal day.  I play very good today, very solid, very concentrated.

Q.   How good was Montgomerie's 64 yesterday?
EDUARDO ROMERO: Yesterday?  It's fantastic, the score.  64 is fantastic.  The course is not easy.  While the rough is not too bad, I think it's more easy than last year.  But the course is still one of the toughest courses in Europe.  Greens very difficult to read.  
Colin is playing good last week.  I think one of the players to beat over here is Monty. 

Q.   Talk about playing with Tiger last week.
EDUARDO ROMERO: I played with Tiger last week.  It was really enjoyable.  After playing with Tiger, he said I can win in Europe again.  It give me a lot of confidence in my game.  And it's good.  I really enjoyed.

Q.   Did he say that after the second round?
EDUARDO ROMERO: Yeah.  After the second round, yeah.

Q.   Did you get a lot of comfort outdriving him on a lot of occasions too?
EDUARDO ROMERO: What did you say?

Q.   You outdrove him a lot of times.
EDUARDO ROMERO: Yeah.  Well, I think it is the new driver, ERC.  I used it in Qatar.  I used the old one before.  But I think this driver is unbelievable.  It goes 35 or 30 yards further than the others.  I am really happy with it.  Really happy with that driver.  I am like more younger, 24, more younger. 

Q.   Were you disappointed at all with your finish yesterday?
EDUARDO ROMERO: No.  No.  Because while I make par on this yesterday, 17 and 18, but I think if I  -- good first start.  I finished very happy.

Q.   Do well here before?
EDUARDO ROMERO: Yeah.  Well, you know, I tell you the history last night when I make yoga last night, and, well, yoga helped me a lot.  Today he was working very nice.  I am very concentrate.  Today I think the key for today was the concentration.  I think it was for the whole week is the same.  

Q.   You were in Germany last week.  Did you slip back a bit the last two rounds?
EDUARDO ROMERO: Yeah, I think I make a mistake the last round, I am playing with Santiago Luna, but I think I feel tired, after I played with Tiger two rounds I feel very, very tired.  But I am still in contention.  I am very good.  I am very happy with my game. 

Q.   Have you had any dealings with Colin over the years, any contests with Colin?
EDUARDO ROMERO: Yeah, I think  -- I think  -- I like to play with Colin.  I am playing before, of course, but I like to play a lot with him very much.  I really enjoy to play with Colin.  Maybe I am playing tomorrow and Sunday too.  You never know.

Q.   Any memorable head-to-heads?
EDUARDO ROMERO: Well, I think  -- you know, how do they say, for me playing with the top guys, it's completely different than playing the other guys.  I try my best when I am playing with the better players and I try my best also.

Q.   You only won in Switzerland a few years ago.  You stayed in the same hotel.  Went to the same restaurant every night.  Ate the same meal.  Are you doing that sort of similar sort of routine this week?
EDUARDO ROMERO: Oh, yeah.  I am staying in the Crown Plaza over here and go to the Chinese restaurant every night.  Maybe I will go back tonight.

Q.   Where is the Chinese restaurant?
EDUARDO ROMERO: Holiday Inn just in front.  It's not my hotel, just across the road.

Q.   You have been to the Chinese restaurant four nights now?
EDUARDO ROMERO: Three nights in a row.  You want to come with me?  (Laughs).

Q.   You have got your wife here?
EDUARDO ROMERO: Yeah, why not. 

Q.   Small table for two?
EDUARDO ROMERO: No, we're four.  Cabrera come with me.  (Laughs).

Q.   Do you have the same meal in this restaurant?
EDUARDO ROMERO: No, no. 

Q.   There are no Argentinian restaurants around?
EDUARDO ROMERO: Probably in London, but not around here.

Q.   Did you know or had ever met Sam Snead who died last night?
EDUARDO ROMERO: No, I never meet.  Well, I like him, but never met him. 
  



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT