WGC EMC WORLD CUP
December 9, 2000
Angel Cabrera
Eduardo Romero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








ANGEL CABRERA:  Yes, I was  -- when we started off, El Gato, he was in trouble, so I thought about it.  But I have great confidence.  I have great confidence in my game, so things came out right. 

EDUARDO ROMERO:  We know that the United States is ahead of us, which is  tough.  We know who we have in front of us, but I think that today we were not very lucky, that we had very many putts that should have gone in that went out, and we can change that.  Tomorrow, we are going to play to our full capacity.  We know that we will try to get the trophy; but otherwise, we think that Argentina shouldn't be anything other than in the first three teams. 

Q.  The birdie on the 9th hole I think was a little bit elaborated because you were working your way through, and finally on the 9th hole you got your birdie.  Do you plan to have the same strategy tomorrow as the one that you had yesterday?  

EDUARDO ROMERO:  Compared to yesterday, tomorrow is a different format.  I don't think we are going to play the same way we played today.  Tomorrow is a totally different story. 

Q.  For both of you, are you going to tee up on the same holes that you did yesterday?  And to Angel in particular, did you think about making the double eagle? 

ANGEL CABRERA:  As far as how we are going to play tomorrow, we are going to analyze it with El Gato later on.  And yes, I was able to shoot a double eagle once in Cordoba, playing a Skins game together with El Gato.

Q.  On the 16th hole, Eduardo told you: "Just lead it on."  How do you feel about having El Gato giving you advice and supporting you? 

ANGEL CABRERA:  He is supporting me because he knows that I am not putting real well lately.  So on the 16th hole, when he told me just to lead it on, just to let the ball roll, I understood what he meant, but I wasn't able to follow his advice.  

Q.  You had more wind today than in the other two days.  Does this affect your game? 

EDUARDO ROMERO:  No, we played like we played the last two days.  I think that the main difference was that today we didn't make any putts. 

Q.  Which is your motivation for tomorrow, to win the trophy, to beat the No. 1 golfer, to defend the colors of your flag, or to beat the No. 1 team? 

ANGEL CABRERA:  I think that we are defending our flag already.  And I think that we're going out there just to get the trophy, because we have many players  -- the No. 1 player, the No. 4 player  -- many players.  We beat a lot of players and very nice golfers, so what we need to do is just win the championship. 

Q.  Taking into account your kind of play and the way the Americans play, what were the conditions, and what conditions would you like to have?  More wind?  Or anything special that you think will favor you more than the other team? 

EDUARDO ROMERO:  As long as it doesn't rain, we can play with any kind of temperature, with or without wind.  Our main concern tomorrow is to beat the United States, rather than what the weather is going to be like.

Q.  Does it make any difference when you start playing, and after the 5th hole, you have not made any birdies compared to the first round when you had six birdies after the first six holes.  

EDUARDO ROMERO:  No, in my case, I have a lot of patience, and I know that just as well as you can make six birdies in a row , you can miss six birdies, but you can make six birdies in a row right after that.  I wasn't really worried.  I knew that we were not the only ones that were not going to make any birdies and that we were going to make only pars. 

Q.  What do you think about tomorrow?  Do you think that you will benefit more from having to play with the United States or do you want New Zealand to play with the United States?  And what things must happen to shorten that difference? 

EDUARDO ROMERO:  What is really important to us is whether we  -- I mean, it is to win.  Whether we play with the United States or we play with New Zealand, it is the same.  What we need to do is just break that difference of three strokes and try to win.  There is no other technique than to make birdies, birdies, and birdies.  That's all. 

Q.  The information that you have on the leaderboards is not very good.  How are you going to play tomorrow, just watching your own game or checking the leaderboard every now and then to make sure what the other ones are doing? 

EDUARDO ROMERO:  Yes, we are  -- I mean we are not going to check the leaderboard.  Let's say only in the last four or five last holes.  But we cannot just hit the first shot in the 1st hole and try to see what the other ones are doing. 

Q.  You two were little humble boys from Cordoba, and you both dreamed of being professionals.  But did you ever dream about playing together and representing Argentina in the World Championships?

ANGEL CABRERA:  When you are a kid, you always have expectations.  When you see the big players walking down the course, you always think that you would like to be like them.  You always have expectations as a kid. 

Q.  El Gato just said that you didn't have very much luck on the greens; but on the other hand, you said that you are not playing very well, your putts.  So which version should we stick to, the one that you didn't have much luck or the one that you are not playing so well? 

EDUARDO ROMERO:  One thing feeds the other.  If you play wrong, it comes with bad luck, as well.  Even if you hit it wrong, the ball goes in; I'm sure things start changing. 

Q.  The strategy for tomorrow, does it have anything to do with who you are going to play with or the weather?  What is your strategy based on? 

ANGEL CABRERA:  Like we did yesterday, when we get to the club tomorrow before the tee time, we'll discuss and check out the weather and decide who plays on the 1st hole. 

Q.  Taking into account that after the first two rounds you are first, now you are behind the United States, what do you feel?  Disappointment? Anger? 

EDUARDO ROMERO:  We have the same confidence and the same enthusiasm as the first day.  The tournament ends tomorrow on the last hole and the last putt of the last hole.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT