WGC EMC WORLD CUP
December 8, 2000
Angel Cabrera
Eduardo Romero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








EDUARDO ROMERO:  You started with a drawback, but then we started to get us  -- our game is doing fine, and we started to get better and better, and we finally finished in good position.  We apologize to the people for making them suffer a little, but we saw them happy afterwards, and that's okay.

EDUARDO ROMERO:  I think that the eagle on the 9th hole is what made us go back into the game.  And also, it helped, the birdie on the 10th; but really it was that eagle on the 9th hole. 

Q.  There were very different scores between yesterday and today.  Do you think the format for tomorrow is going to mark the difference of the tournament? 

ANGEL CABRERA:  No.  Tomorrow is another day.  I think the tournament will be defined on Sunday.  And also, the format of the game is a little more difficult. 

Q.  Eduardo, on the first five holes, we saw you a little accelerated, a little anxious.  Did you feel that way? 

EDUARDO ROMERO:  No.  We were not anxious.  What we were trying not to do was to start a fall and to make bigger mistakes.  We just tried to recover from the place where we were in that moment. 

Q.  Congratulations on the recover.  And what happened in the water? 

ANGEL CABRERA:  Well, what happened on the 17th hole is that sometimes I want too much of it.  I tried to hit it to the hole. 

Q.  We would like to know if with this format of play you are more anxious, because we saw you going too fast to the ball.  

EDUARDO ROMERO:  I don't know, I wouldn't call that anxiety.  What we tried to do is to leave our partner with the shortest, easiest shot.  So maybe what we are doing is concentrating harder, but I would not call it anxiety. 

Q.  When did you make up your minds on who was going to start in the odd holes and who was going to start on the even holes?  Was it only a matter of distance, or what are the factors? 

EDUARDO ROMERO:  Well, we made up our minds on one hour before starting.  First, we thought that both of us were going to play two par 5s, but finally we said that in hole 2, it was better for Eduardo to play, because we know that the start could decide the whole round. 

Q.  How did you encourage each other?  How did you ask each other for advice? 

ANGEL CABRERA:  Well, all the time, even the caddies played, because we know each other's games perfectly.  So we were all the time asking each other for advice. 

Q.  Tomorrow is a key day for the tournament.  Would you have preferred to play with the United States? 

ANGEL CABRERA:  There are still two rounds to be played, and we are ready to play with any team that we have to.  We have no problem  -- we are mentally prepared for that. 

Q.  What ball did you play today? 

EDUARDO ROMERO:  Each one played with his ball.  He played with Titleist, and I, with Callaway. 

Q.  Did you feel any difference when you had to hit your shot? 

ANGEL CABRERA:  No, because we practiced throughout the week. 

Q.  Well, we see that you have improved a lot; that you were hitting the ball very well and there were many balls that you were just about to take them out of the hole. 

ANGEL CABRERA:  Well, I'm playing more aggressively, and I'm very comfortable with El Gato (Big Cat), and we are playing very well.  And so many balls hit the hole, some didn't, but we definitely played much better. 

Q.  How did you feel after the 9th hole? 

EDUARDO ROMERO:  I haven't been so moved for a long time, and it was not on the 9th hole or the 18th hole.  It was yesterday when we stood on the first tee and we heard all of the people.  That was really moving. 

Q.  You've got quite a special relationship with the 9th hole.  Today you hit a driver to the left.  But do you think you are settled with the eagle today? 

EDUARDO ROMERO:  Well, it's difficult when you have hit a bad shot on the previous day to just stand there and not to think about it.  Today, I remember, and I almost did the same thing; but, well, finally that pitch made me even with the hole.  So that's exactly what I said. 

Q.  When I return to the 9th hole, you were not doing very well before that pitch.  So what were you thinking about, and how had you made up your mind, to play aggressively? 

EDUARDO ROMERO:  Well, my game is based on my game around the green.  I am much more confident when I am around the green than when I am actually on the green.  I have won many tournaments from holing from outside the green, and I always have like a 90 percent possibility of holing it. 

Q.  Congratulations, and thank you for yesterday.  El Gato, next time if you can do an eagle, please do it again. 

EDUARDO ROMERO:  Muchas gracias. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT