WGC EMC WORLD CUP
December 7, 2000
Angel Cabrera
Eduardo Romero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 EDUARDO ROMERO: We are very connected -- we said that we are very connected to each
other, especially regarding today's round. We were very nervous, especially on the 1st
hole, because we started watching and listening to cameras going off and sounds. Even
though we made a birdie from then on, we just kept making birdies, and that really calmed
us down.  
 ANGEL CABRERA: Yes, like Eduardo said, we were -- I especially was very nervous on the
1st hole. Having the people cheer for us was very important. But all in all, people
behaved very well. People are not used to having Tiger Woods and people of this magnitude
playing here. But I think that everybody behaved well, and I feel good about today.  
 
Q. If somebody told you today that you were going to shoot 15-under, would you sign it
--
 
 EDUARDO ROMERO: No.  
 
Q. The course was presented in a simple way. Can you say that while given the
conditions, without wind, and with this format, can you say that it is easy to play this
course? 
 
 ANGEL CABRERA: No, I don't think so. It is a very complicated course. And I think that
you have to play really concentrated, because if you lose concentration, you can shoot
wrong, and that can really cost you a big deal.  
 
Q. Now that you are in the first position, does that force you to have a more
conservative point of view for tomorrow, or you're going to play to win? 
 
 ANGEL CABRERA: No, we're going to play our game. And we'll see, as we start the day, if
we are going to attack the course or we're going to play conservative. It all depends on
how things are set right from the beginning.  
 
Q. For both of you, you were playing with Tiger, but it seems like you felt no pressure
because of this. Were you under pressure? 
 
 EDUARDO ROMERO: We knew that we had to play against the United States at some point.
When we realized or we found out that we had to play against the United States on the
first day, we already played with Tiger, and everybody feels pressure when you get to play
with Tiger. The difference lies on the fact that we knew how to handle this pressure.  
 
Q. Not everybody is able to shoot 10-under or 10 birdies in one round. In this case,
how does it feel, having been able to do so, especially between 20,000 people and in your
own country? 
 
 EDUARDO ROMERO: I didn't think about Eduardo Romero playing and making those 10
birdies. This is a team. Actually, I just found out that I shot 10 birdies. I played for
the team, and I tried to make as many birdies as possible for the team.  
 
Q. How did you find the course, and when you found yourself beating the United States,
how did you feel at that moment? 
 
 EDUARDO ROMERO: This is just the first round. I think the tournament hasn't even
started yet. There is still a long way. We have to be concentrated to play in the same
level we played today, and I think we are capable to do that.  
 
Q. Roberto De Vicenzo said these kind of tournaments are played in four days and four
nights. What are your ideas for tonight? 
 
 ANGEL CABRERA: Like any other night, I think we're going to have dinner, and then we're
going to sleep. I think that we are used to these kind of nights, maybe Romero a little
bit more than myself.  
 
Q. I'd like to congratulate you, just thank you for all of the happiness you gave us
today. 
 
 EDUARDO ROMERO: This is the first nice question I've been asked today. (Laughs.) 
 
Q. Angel, do you know who is going to start on the first tee, who is going to play the
odd holes and the par holes?
 
 ANGEL CABRERA: No. We are going to get together with El Gato (Big Cat), and we are
going to analyze in our game who is going to start tomorrow.  
 
Q. You play with different balls. Have you decided which kind of ball you're going to
play tomorrow? 
 
 EDUARDO ROMERO: No, because we exchange balls. So, each practices with the ball the
other one plays, so there's no problem with that. Before that, we play with whatever, any
kind of balls. (Laughter.) 
 
Q. You seem to be in good spirits and with a lot of good energy. Do you think that on
Sunday we're going to have a big Cordoban festival?
 
 EDUARDO ROMERO: We are very confident in our game. We are not saying that today, but we
have been saying this for some days now. So many journalists asked us, "Why are you
so confident?" As if they were scared or frightened by our words, because we were
playing fine and we were playing well. And that's why we said it. And we keep on saying
the same thing.  
 
Q. What happened on the 9th hole? Was it unplayable? 
 
 EDUARDO ROMERO: There was a ball that was not mine, and we couldn't find the other one.
But Angel was right in the middle of the fairway, and he was about to hit a 9-iron, so it
wasn't really necessary for me to find the ball.  
 
Q. Angel, how did you feel on that hole when you found yourself all alone, and what did
you try to do on the 15th hole? 
 
 ANGEL CABRERA: All I thought about was to get on the green. I mean, I had a 9-iron in
my hand. I just had to hit the green like I would do it on any other occasion. And as far
as the 15th hole is concerned, I saw Eduardo was really close to the pin. So while I had a
very complicated shot, I gave it a chance. Maybe I could have left it really close to the
pin, myself.  
 
Q. Eduardo, was there any possibility of playing the ball on the 18th hole? 
 
 EDUARDO ROMERO: No chance.  
 
Q. Today was a very hot day, and there is a possibility of playing with a lot of wind
and some rain. Which are the best weather conditions possible for your game? 
 
 EDUARDO ROMERO: Of course, a day like today. But if it rains and there is a lot of
wind, we are quite used to playing under those conditions in Scotland and in England, in
general.  
 
Q. For both of you, were you disturbed by the fact of playing with Tiger, who was not
comfortable with his own swing today? 
 
 ANGEL CABRERA: No, because we were placing special attention to what we were doing; we
were not paying attention to what our competitors were doing.  
 
Q. What did you think of the putt on the 16th hole? How valuable was it for you? 
 
 EDUARDO ROMERO: It's a right cross.  
 
Q. Angel, what can you tell us about the difference between the last two World Cups in
which you played with different partners, and this one? On those occasions, you started
first, as well, and then you changed and you move on into a different position. How do you
feel today after starting this way? 
 
 ANGEL CABRERA: They are different tournaments, different places. We are playing here in
Argentina now. In 1998, we were almost able to get the trophy to go to Buenos Aires. It
didn't happen, as things don't happen in life, but we played well. Last year, we almost
got the trophy, as well, with Romero, but it went away as well. This year, it is another
story. And we are here to try and win the trophy.  
 
Q. Big Cat, New Zealand said that they felt the shouting of the crowd as a goal made by
Maradona in a futbol match. How do you feel about it? 
 
 EDUARDO ROMERO: Exactly the same. 
 
Q. In a press conference, you said that if the No. 1 player of the world decided to win
this tournament by himself, he would be able to. Do you still feel the same?
 
 EDUARDO ROMERO: No. Because tomorrow is a different format. Tomorrow each one of them
is playing a different stroke, an alternate stroke.  
 
Q. What is the difference between playing with 5,000 people around you and today? 
 
 EDUARDO ROMERO: It is exactly the same, but with more feelings, because I am
representing our country today.  
 
Q. Today, Eduardo, you played some putts in a very aggressive way. They went right into
the hole. Do you think that is the way you play on your own; that has anything to do with
the way you play alone?
 
 EDUARDO ROMERO: I have improved my putter a lot in the last year. And in this system,
it is much better, because I know that I have a partner that is supporting me, and that's
why I can play so aggressively. I don't usually play this aggressive when I'm playing
alone.  
 
End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT