WGC EMC WORLD CUP
December 5, 2000
Angel Cabrera
Eduardo Romero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








EDUARDO ROMERO: We are very happy that the World Golf Championship is coming to
Argentina. We have waited for the event to come here for over 30 years, and we're willing
to have the trophy stay here in Argentina. We are well prepared for this. We have had a
very good year, both of us. We have practiced the course, and we expect, also, to have a
little bit of luck on our side, as well. Par and to be able to, as I said before, be able
to win The Cup. 
ANGEL CABRERA: I am very proud to be here playing on behalf of Argentina, and we are
doing everything possible to stay here in Argentina, where we believe that it should stay.

ANGEL CABRERA: We are conscious and well aware that at some point we had to play
against them. I think that the best thing that could have happened to us is to start,
playing against them.
EDUARDO ROMERO: I believe that because of the way that we are playing that we are not
affected by the co-competitors; because as I said before, that we are well prepared for
this tournament, and that's why we are here. 

Q. Vicente Fernandez and Roberto De Vicenzo said that you could have extra doses of
pressure because of being local players and playing against Tiger Woods. How are you going
to deal with this?

EDUARDO ROMERO: We are used to playing under pressure, actually. And for me, I think I
have more pressure 15 years ago when I had to play; I only had 2 pesos in my pocket, and I
had to play for 150,000 pesos.
ANGEL CABRERA: I think that you feel the pressure, but everybody is going to feel it.
Everybody wants to win; so everybody is going to be under pressure. 

Q. Angel Cabrera, I would like to know if the first tee, the first drive is very
important on this course? 

ANGEL CABRERA: I think, yes, it's very important to keep the ball on the fairway. If
you keep it on the fairway, things can be much simpler. 

Q. This new kind of play, foursome and four-ball, is it going to be in your favor? 

ANGEL CABRERA: I think, yes, it can be something in our favor, because we know how each
other plays; so that can be an asset in our case. 
EDUARDO ROMERO: We have been practicing together for over five years. In our Open, we
played together. And for this reason, we know, I'd say kind of perfectly well how each one
plays. 

Q. Like you said before, you have been waiting for 30 years to have this tournament
being played here. Now do you think that you are in a way responsible or guilty for this
enthusiasm that people show towards golf in Argentina now? 

EDUARDO ROMERO: This has nothing to do with us. This comes from a long way. Roberto De
Vicenzo, Vicente Fernandez, there are many players, Florentina Molina who have been
opening the way for us. And I think this is what we've been looking for, for a long time
to, give South American golf a place that we think it deserves.

Q. Why are you so self-confident? Is it because you are very well prepared for this, or
is it because the conditions are in your favor at this time?

EDUARDO ROMERO: My confidence doesn't come because I am Eduardo Romero, but because I
have statistics that prove my good golf at this moment. And it's the same thing with Angel
Cabrera; we both have been playing very good golf this last year. And I say this because
Argentina hasn't had two players with such a good level of golf like the one we've been
playing lately. 
ANGEL CABRERA: I think that it is basically because we know each other very well and
because we have been playing very well this past year that we have a very good chance.
That's where our confidence comes from.

Q. Mr. Romero, which is your preference, to have foursome or best ball, and will this
system be in your favor playing in Argentina? 

EDUARDO ROMERO: Like I said before, we have a very similar golf, or kind of way of
playing golf, so that we know that when we have to play a game like foursomes in which
each one of us has to play alternate shot, it's like just one player would be playing. I'd
rather play best ball because that's the kind of game I like best, best ball. 

Q. What things do you take into consideration when you say that the best thing that
could happen to you is to start with playing with Tiger Woods and David Duval? 

ANGEL CABRERA: Like I said before, we are very confident and we have to play against
them at some point. I think it is better if we start, playing against them, and if we make
-- if we shoot a good score the first day, that's going to give us much more confidence
for the rest of the tournament.

Q. Do you see any other team besides Argentina or the United States with possibilities
to get the trophy, to obtain the Championship? 

EDUARDO ROMERO: Yes, of course. Everybody is here to -- I mean, they came here to win,
but in my mind I think I have four candidates: Ireland, Spain, United States and
ourselves. 

Q. I'd like to ask both of you if the support of the people, of the public, is an asset
in your game?

ANGEL CABRERA: Yes, in my case, I think that playing in your country with people
supporting you gives you much more energy and in my case, when I am not playing so well,
having people support me gives me a much better chance to make a better round. 

Q. How do you play this course if you have a lot of wind? 

ANGEL CABRERA: It's going to be very difficult. We are going to have to play with a lot
of patience and very concentrated. Otherwise, it's going to be very tough. 

Q. After playing today, what do you think are the main characteristics of this course?
Padraig Harrington just said that the bunkers had a lot of sand, but the greens were the
right speed. What is your opinion about it? 

EDUARDO ROMERO: Yes, I agree with that. The bunkers do have a lot of sand. But that's a
problem for the people that go into the bunker. For us, for the rest, the course is in
excellent condition, and the greens have a very good speed.

Q. What did you ask, exactly, to Mr. Fernandez? 

ANGEL CABRERA: As I was walking down the field, I asked Vicente Fernandez how he played
the 18th hole, because I think it is quite difficult and it can complicate things,
especially if you are defining a tournament, that hole. He says that he plays that hole
with a lot of respect; that he usually plays an iron from the tee, even though then he has
a very long shot to the green, but he feels more comfortable that way. 

Q. For both of you, the 17th hole, especially the 17th green, doesn't fall behind as
far as difficulty is concerned. How do you see it? 

EDUARDO ROMERO: I think that the 17th hole is not as difficult as it looks, because it
is a par 5. What does influence is if the tee is moved about 40 or 50 yards and you can
reach the green in two strokes, that's when the hole can turn into a difficult one.
Otherwise, if the tee remains where it is right now, the hole will not be so difficult.

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT