CHARLES SCHWAB CUP CHAMPIONSHIP
October 29, 2009
Eduardo Romero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DAVE SENKO: Eduardo Romero, 36, 31, and 67 to open the 2009 Charles Schwab Cup Championship. You were plus two after four holes and then made a very nice recovery the rest of the way. Beautiful day to play golf out there.  
 EDUARDO ROMERO: Fantastic. And the golf course is fantastic. Good shape. I think it's one of the best tournaments so far we playing. This year it's fantastic shape.   
 Well, I started with a good birdie on the first hole. I make a putt from 20, 25, 30 feet. Make a good birdie there.   
 Then bogey at the 2nd hole, par 6, and hook the driver into the rough. I move the ball one yards from there and then hit a 3-wood on the front of the green and chip and miss a putt for par.   
 But it was a good par for No. 3. Just miss a birdie from ten feet.   
 And then No.4, the par-3, I make double bogey. It was terrible there. I don't know what happened. Just pin high, and then just chip in short of the hole and then make three-putt from there. It's stupid. What's a stupid bogey it was.  
 And then, well, I'm started on No. 6. A good birdie. Good driver. I'm driving very good all day long today. I make birdie on No. 6, driver and lob wedge, and then one-putt from ten feet for birdie.  
 No. 9 was fantastic driver, and then another lob wedge. I put close to -- about five feet from the flag and then make birdie.   
 No. 10, also driver, lob wedge, and then one-putt from seven feet.   
 No. 11, good driver again. Lob wedge again, and then one-putted from seven feet for birdie.   
 Second one I miss, No. 13, it was fantastic driver again. I hit a 4-iron on there, second shot, just put pin high for eagle. Then miss a putt for birdie and two-putt for birdie. It was 12 feet for eagle and then a miss.   
 Another birdie was No. 16. 16, another par-5. Hit a fantastic driver again. 5-iron second shot pin high for eagle again, and I miss again and two-putted.   
 Good birdie the 17th. I hit pitching wedge and I make a putt for 12 feet for birdie.   
 Then I miss a good chance No. 18. Driver, fantastic driver. I think it was the best driver today. 105 yards to the flag on No. 18, and then just good lob wedge and miss a putt from seven feet for birdie.  
 DAVE SENKO: I looked it up, and this is your best starting round on the Champions Tour since May at the Regions event in Birmingham. Tell 'em a little bit about how your year has gone.  
 EDUARDO ROMERO: Well, I'm start the season very good. I win one tournament, Toshiba Classic, and I feel very comfortable.   
 After that, I don't know what happened. Just I'm trying to make -- I hit good. I hit good, but I can't make a score. Play good, but 73, 72. I never recover that. I don't know why. Just was good concentration, good swing.  
 And also last week I started terrible in San Antonio, 4-over and 3-over the first two rounds. I don't know.   
 One more week, but I love this golf course. I'm playing very good in the couple years ago in this golf course because it's straight, long, good greens. It's just is fantastic golf course, you know, and I love playing this golf course.  
 DAVE SENKO: Well, you tried for fourth here in 2006 and tied for fifth in 1007.  
 EDUARDO ROMERO: Exactly. Yes, I have a lot of confidence with this -- I don't know why, but probably maybe is the last tournament of the year, of the season. Then I want to finish the season very good.   
 Well, it's good start. A start like this is perfect. Give me a lot of confidence for the rest of the week.  
  
  Q. A little drier than last year?  
 EDUARDO ROMERO: Oh, yeah, yeah. The weather is fantastic. Today it was, whoa, what a day for play golf. Fantastic. Like Argentine. (Laughter.)   
  
  Q. About the golf course, this is a golf course that I call it the old school design, because you really have to shake your shots. Harding Park is where the event will be played next year. Is that the type of golf course you like to...   
 EDUARDO ROMERO: Yes. Yes, I'm waiting all year long to play in this tournament in this golf course. It's fantastic. I love this golf course. For me, it's one of the best so far in the season. You know, it's fantastic golf course. And then the place and the clubhouse and everything is fantastic.   
 But, I'll tell you, it's not easy. It's very difficult around the green. The rough is very tough. But it's good start for me. Three days to go, and then we'll see what happens.  
  
  Q. Do you find some of the greens back in the corners, they have kind of a break?  
 EDUARDO ROMERO: Yeah, yeah, and I think the green is more faster than last year. If you pass the hole, jeez, it's very difficult to come back. It's okay. It's okay. Ti's the same for everybody.  
  
  Q. What do you think about the Olympics coming to South America, and specifically golf being part of it?  
 EDUARDO ROMERO: It's fantastic. Yeah, yeah. It's a very good, because we waiting in South America for an event like that, you know. It's magnificent, especially for Argentina. And then we talk with (indiscernible) many years ago, like ten years ago, and say, Why the golf is not Olympic game?   
 They say we talk with the people, and they say, Well, you have to wait. I don't know. Now finally it's coming. In 2016 it's in Brazil. It's fantastic.  
  
  Q. How much do you think it'll affect the growth of golf in South America?  
 EDUARDO ROMERO: Well, I think now in South America the golf is, if not No. 1 -- of course soccer is the No. 1 sport in South America, but now the golf is second game for sure.   
 Because it's great to bring a lot of big tournaments over there, like U.S. Open, Masters, and also myself win the U.S. Open, Senior Open last year. And couple younger players in Europe win a couple tournaments, and then the golf is going up and up and up in Argentina.   
 We have 125 golfers only in Buenos Aires so far. That's very good. Ten years ago, only 70 or 75. Now it's 125 golfers. It's fantastic.   
  
  Q. Are there any venues, any golf courses you think that will be selected in South America for the Olympics, or will they construct a golf course for this?   
 EDUARDO ROMERO: Yeah, I think that we have to contract the golf, because now in Rio de Janeiro it's fantastic golf course, but I don't think it's championship, you know. They need to make some changes.   
 Yeah, I think we need to make some change over there. But the weather and the golf course is fantastic, yeah.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT