WGC ANDERSEN CONSULTING MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 25, 1999
Eduardo Romero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








EDUARDO ROMERO:  Well, I think it was today.  I played really good today, very consistent, very solid, very concentrate. I know it is a very, very tough match today.  I am playing with Norman, you know, it is a tough guy.  But yesterday I am -- I feel good feel for today after win to Lee Westwood.  But I am very happy.  I know it is Match Play.  You never know in Match Play what is coming on.

EDUARDO ROMERO:  No, I still have to fight, and say to my caddie 2-up, 3-all to play, you never know.  Then 3-all and that bring the extra hole, but -- I think the key was on No. 18 when I hit the second shot.  Put just one foot from the hole.

EDUARDO ROMERO:  7-iron and with little fade, left-to-right, perfect, perfect; so I think it was the best shot in my life.

EDUARDO ROMERO:  Well, it was different.  Completely different.  Completely different feel.  Well, tomorrow I know it is 36 holes and it is a Match Play.  Never know.  I will wait and still concentrate.


Q.  Take us through the 20th, the second extra hole.

EDUARDO ROMERO:  Yes, I lost -- I think I lost a good chance for beat the match after 20, 20th hole when he go out-of-bounds left with the tee shot, and then -- well, had to make par for win the match, but I hit a terrible second -- terrible third shot or fourth shot.  Well, I missed the putt for par for the match.  Well, the 3rd hole was fantastic.  Good shot, and I make birdie from four -- seven meters.


Q.  Did it look like he was get interesting, just over the last few holes, when you were coming back that the match (inaudible) -- 

EDUARDO ROMERO:  No, no, no.  I don't think so.  I think it is a Greg Norman, never -- but I think I am still with chance because I like the match playing.  I am very hard guy when playing the Match Play, I know, and I have to try my best.  And the last three holes -- and then I think it was perfect.  The last three holes I played fantastic.


Q.  You face Phil Mickelson next.  What are your feelings about playing Phil Mickelson?

EDUARDO ROMERO:  Well, it is like Norman.  It is a good player, one of the best players in the world.  But I will tell you, it is a Match Play; you never know.  It is a golf; it is a game.  I play good.  I beat two very good players, and -- I don't know.  I am still with the same confidence.


Q.  Have you ever played La Costa before, and if you haven't, are you surprised?

EDUARDO ROMERO:  No, it is my first time.  I played in San Diego, but not on this course.  But it is the first time I play here.  I like the course.  It is very similar to Europe.  I am playing my home course in Europe, it is very similar golf course and my game is perfect for this golf course.


Q.  A good show in this tournament might get you down to below the Top 50 in the world, and that would get you an invitation to Augusta.  Was that in your mind when you came to this tournament?

EDUARDO ROMERO:  I never know that, but if we play in the Masters, it is my dream.  I never play in The Masters.  If you can play in the Masters it is fantastic.  It is one of my dream.


Q.  Will you go through the last four holes, what happened, you hit good shots, he hit bad shots?

EDUARDO ROMERO:  Yeah, I think so.  I hit, I think, I see Greg miss a tee shot and then I got more confidence when I see him miss the shot, but I think he miss a good chance for beat the match in the 17, he was good putt.  Number first hole too, but I will tell you, it was lucky for me.  Very lucky for me because he miss a good chance for birdie too.


Q.  You said you played the last three holes in regulation fantastic.  How did you play them?  Did you hit the ball close?

EDUARDO ROMERO:  Yes.  I put the ball close to the hole and then tried to put the ball in the fairway from the tee.  I am very concentrate on the tee to the green and then, well, when I see when Norman miss a shot, I got more confidence and, well, I tried to beat him.


Q.  What distance was the 7 iron on the 18th?

EDUARDO ROMERO:  It was 169 to the flag into the wind.


Q.  Have you ever played with Norman before?

EDUARDO ROMERO:  Well, -- no.  I think Match Play I think it was in the Dunhill Cup, but it was ten years ago five -- nearly ten years ago.


Q.  Have you ever played Mickelson?

EDUARDO ROMERO:  No, never, never.  Never played with Phil.  I know he is a tough guy, one of the best players in the world, but tomorrow is another day.

EDUARDO ROMERO:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT