U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 29, 2009
Eduardo Romero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, welcome. This is Eduardo Romero the 2008 U.S. Senior Open Champion. From Argentina, Eduardo is playing in his third Senior Open. Eduardo is an eight-time winner on the European Tour, a five-time winner on The Champion's Tour, and won earlier this year the Toshiba Senior Classic. 
 Eduardo just joined us from England after the Senior British Open. How are you feeling right now with your game? 
 EDUARDO ROMERO: I feel very good. Good morning everybody. I feel very good in morning. 
 Then yesterday, Monday, I arrived from England. Then yesterday I practiced 18 holes, then I saw the golf course for the first time. The first time I'm walking on the course I say, "I've been before here. I remember this hole." Then my caddie said, "Maybe you played in 1991 when John Daily won." It was true. Yeah. I played there. I don't remember that time. 
 But the course is fantastic, fantastic; I think one of the best courses we played this year so far. Fantastic. Good condition. It's long, and I like long golf course. The green is fantastic. The rough is perfect. I think it's very good. I'm really happy.
 THE MODERATOR: Questions?

 Q. Is it different coming to a tournament you have won? Do you have a different approach to it -- not approach playingwise, but mentally, is it a little bit different?
 EDUARDO ROMERO: Well probably not, you know, when the major is coming, I am a completely different player. I don't know why. Some friends say, "Why do you play different game in the major than the other tournament?" 
 Really, I don't know. I don't know. But probably because I saw the field. It's a very, very good feel for playing this week, and all the majors. Then mentally I prepare differently than the other tournaments. 
 I love the majors. I love the majors. Especially after last year when I won this tournament. It was fantastic, you know. I feel when the U.S. Open is coming or the British Open is coming, I feel like a different player, probably because I like it. I like the majors, yeah.

 Q. You're one of the longest hitters in the field, maybe the longest. How big an advantage -- they call this a "bomber's course." How big of an advantage is length here?
 EDUARDO ROMERO: Yeah, I think it's very important, very important to have a few extra yards this week. And but, I think, the course is a fantastic golf course from the tee to the green. I have to play chip good, putting good, then you have to be full game in good condition. Because if you hit a driver in the middle then putt terrible, it's not a good combination. 
 But I'm ready. I'm ready. I know I'm one of the longest hitters this week, but I think it's very difficult golf course. We have to be very concentrated all week. Drivers, putting and bunkers and every shot, because every shot counts this week. It's a very, very important week. Then it's a very strong field for this week. Then we have to really concentrate. 
 But I know I have an advantage over another players but you never know. You never know.

 Q. How does it feel when you are announced on the first tee as the Senior Open Champion? Does that do anything to you?
 EDUARDO ROMERO: It's very good. I feel happy. I feel -- when the other tournaments, like any tournaments I'm defending, the champion of the Senior U.S. Open, I feel very good just like a movie in my head. When I start to play golf I'm thinking of my town and my family and everything. But I have to concentrate. But it's very good feeling. Very nice. Very nice.

 Q. You do more than 100 tournaments all over the world. Where does winning this one last year rank?
 EDUARDO ROMERO: Oh, it's the first one, of course. It's my favorite tournament. I think it's the more important tournament in my life. Then when I win last year I'm saying, I can do it, I can do it, I can do it because I win a major. I tried to win a major in the main Tour, but it's the Senior Tour now, but the U.S. Open is very important for me, for my career, for Latin America, for Argentina. It's very good.

 Q. What has been the response in Latin America and in Argentina with two Argentinian major champions so close together?
 EDUARDO ROMERO: It's unbelievable. It's great. It is fantastic. Probably a couple years ago the first game in Argentina it was soccer, and now it's golf. Golf is going up and up. There's a new golf course in Argentina. I think we have 125 golf courses only in Buenos Aires. Then I have a project in Argentina I'm working on, then the golf is amazing now in Argentina. The people are crazy about golf. You can see now on one golf channel it's golf 24 hours a day, and that is fantastic. 
 You know you see the kids in the school practice, make a swing in the school. That is very nice.
 But I think we're doing a good job. I think I'm in the group, but I think the job started with Roberto, Sanchez, Fernandez, then me, Cabrera, Gonzales, another Romero. I think we're doing a very good job in the golf, you know, put the golf in the right place in Argentina and Latin America, of course.
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you for your time.
 EDUARDO ROMERO: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT