UBS HONG KONG OPEN
December 2, 2011
Panupol Pittayarat
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What's your verdict on the day? 
PANUPOL PITTAYARAT:     I mean, honestly, it's a lucky day.   I scrambled around the course very good.     Hit a lot of good putts.   Got the lines right.   I mean, the result came out good. 

Q.   Which means you played well, as opposed to just luck?
PANUPOL PITTAYARAT:   Yes, I played well.   Yeah, overall, my score came out great, and I had a good feeling about it.   I was confident with my game today.

Q.   Anything special about the eagle and then followed up with a birdie on that back nine? 
PANUPOL PITTAYARAT:   Well, I had a bad drive.   I pushed it on the right, but I hit a really good second shot with my rescue, and, well, I see the line and I just see it, and hit it and then, well, it got in. 
So I was happy.   I was happy and then the next hole, I had a good second shot and to my caddie, well, our line wasn't the same, but then I trust and it came out good. 

Q.   Well, what are your thoughts on your position on that leaderboard?
PANUPOL PITTAYARAT:   Well, I haven't thought I would play well this week.   I just barely got in on Tuesday.   Well, my goal was to make the cut, and well, I'm up here now.   So I'll try to keep it up on the weekend and I'll try to finish well the rest of the week.

Q.   Does it help having no expectation going into an event? 
PANUPOL PITTAYARAT:   Yeah, it helps a bit.   I take a lot of pressure out of myself.   I'm really happy playing in such a big event and it's my first year on the Asian Tour and playing the co‑sanctioned tournaments. 
I really want to play well every week, and some weeks I just put too much pressure on myself, and it came out good.

Q.   You mentioned it being a debut year, how has it been?   Have you enjoyed it?
PANUPOL PITTAYARAT:   Yes, I love playing here, I've always enjoyed the Asian Tour and I hope to climb up to play better.

Q.   Has the season been everything you expected? 
PANUPOL PITTAYARAT:   No.   I haven't expected this.   My goal in the beginning of the year was just to hit up Top 60.   If I finish well this week, then I will probably climb up to the top 40.   It's not what I expect. 

Q.   Having said about no expectations coming into this event, and now you're in the position that you're in, what are the thoughts going into the weekend? 
PANUPOL PITTAYARAT:   Still, I keep on my plan, I still play with my plan and stick with my plan, and whatever happens, happens. 
But I try to do my best every single shot. 

FA


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT