SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 2, 2015
Shawn Stefani
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  SHAWN STEFANI:   Man, it was great.   Got off to a good start, made a good par save on No. 2.   After that, just hit some really good shots and capitalized on the good shots.   It's always good to get off to a good start and take advantage of your opportunities, you know.   Had one little hiccup on No. 15 with a missed 3-footer for birdie.   Rolled it in on the next hole.   Kind of take what you can get on a day like this, and it's always nice to get off to a good start here in Houston.

Q.   Talk about your comfort level on this golf course.
SHAWN STEFANI:   Yeah, I've got a little comfort here.   I played a lot of golf here.   In my off-season I come out here and practice a lot and get a lot of work done.   You know, obviously coming off last year, it was nice to get off to -- it was nice to play well here last year.   So, you know, just to come back here and to play and have my friends and family, which is great because lot of positive energy out there, always nice to come back to Houston and play here.

Q.   How much did it help your confidence -- last year you came here you needed that Top-10 finish to keep your card.   How much confidence do you feed off of that one?
SHAWN STEFANI:   You know, I've actually been playing really well all year.   So, you know, if I would have come in here playing not so well, it may have been a little different, too.   You kind of have to ride the waves of playing well.   So, I'm going the keep trying to do what I'm doing, you know, and keep playing the way I'm playing.   I really haven't been putting a lot of pressure on myself to play well.   I think that's the key to my good play.   I'm going to keep having fun and enjoying it.   As a kid I dreamed about playing in the Houston Open, and now this is the fourth time I've gotten to play it.   I'm really happy to be here and just glad to be playing some good golf.

Q.   Talk about the balance on Tour this year.   I think there's been multiple winners like maybe twice.   Low number, you got a new winner about every week.   Anybody can literally win out here.
SHAWN STEFANI:   That's the good thing about this Tour.   There's a lot of young kids, especially the graduating class from the Web.com Tour last year.   Lot of young great players coming out here.   It's nice to see the game in good shape and just tells you how strong the players are out here.   Anybody can pretty much win every week.   I think that's good for golf.   I think for a long time we saw Tiger dominate the game.   He was always a multiple winner every year, probably three, five, six, seven times a year he won.   It's good for the game to see a lot of diversity in winners and guys that are young, guys that are old.   I think it's kind of neat.

Q.   Is there one facet of your game that's been working as good as the other or just the overall game?
SHAWN STEFANI:   Here this year I've really putted the ball really well.   I've been rolling it nicely and, you know, on top of that I've been hitting it okay.   I probably hit it a little bit better last year.   Today I really -- I worked on one little thing at the beginning of the week.   It wasn't a swing issue, just little basic fundamental part of the game.   And it's just helped a bunch, and it was nice to go out there and hit some shots to where I was hitting.

Q.   Shawn, a lot of people playing at home might feel pressure.   You think that kind of relaxes you more.   Can you talk about the --
SHAWN STEFANI:   There is a little bit of pressure.   It doesn't really matter if I'm playing at home or anywhere else.   I'm just trying to enjoy the game and play it.   And I've been playing well, so it's not -- there's no sense in putting any extra pressure on yourself.   But I think at home it's just nice because you have a lot of positive energy.   Everybody is always clapping, no matter if it's a good or bad shot.   So, it's nice to have that, you know.   And I think that's why guys like Phil and guys like Arnold Palmer a long time ago, they had those big crowds and could feed off that energy.   My crowds aren't quite as big as Phil's or Arnie's.   It's nice to have energy out there.   I think that does help.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT