OHL CLASSIC AT MAYAKOBA
November 15, 2014
Shawn Stefani
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You were leaking oil a little coming in on 16 and 17.   How nice was it to be able to roll one in on 18?
SHAWN STEFANI:   It felt great.   I kind of walked off the green on 17 and said, just try to hit one in the fairway, hit a good shot in there, and just tried to make birdie to end on a positive note. 
16 and 17 were just kind of some mental errors.   Just kind of getting tired late in the day.   You can't do that.   It happened.
But I stayed positive, walking on to 18 tee box, and hit a couple good shots and knocked her in there.

Q.   What do you take away from your performance overall today?   You still post a solid number. 
SHAWN STEFANI:   Really, what I would take away is patience and just kind of staying there in it.   Not getting too frustrated. 
The weather was kind of bad, we had rain on and off and then it was not.   Then the wind was blowing, then it was not.   So it was kind of a tough day all around. 
Really, the thing that kept me going today was just a patient mindset.   And I'll do the same thing tomorrow, because I know it's going to be another tough day.   Might have some bad weather or something.   So go in there tomorrow and keep doing what I'm doing and see where we are.

Q.   Mentally, how big a jump is that?   You're three back on the 18th tee and now just a stroke back going into the final round. 
SHAWN STEFANI:   Definitely, you want to close that gap as much as possible.   You don't want to give the leaders too much of a gap going into Sunday.   Because, as good of a player as Jason is, and as well as he's been playing, you can't give him too many shots. 
So, all I can do really tomorrow is focus on going and playing the best I can and staying patient and really not worrying about what he's doing.   But we'll see what happens.   It's going to be a lot of fun.   I can't wait. 

Q.   That was a really big birdie you made on the last hole. 
SHAWN STEFANI:   Yeah, it was.   I had to hit it pretty hard, I know that.   That rain that we had kind of softened things up.   It got the greens pretty slow. 
But I knew if I hit it really hard I was on a good line.   We actually read it right.   When I first looked at it we thought it was going to go right.   But we looked at it a little bit more and kind of figured out it was going to go left. 
I saw, I guess I saw Jason hit his, it was kind of slow.   I knew the greens were getting slow because, after the putt I had on 17, I knew going up that hill it was slow and I knew I had to hit it hard.   It just felt good to kind of close on a positive note after bogeying 16 and 17.

Q.   I thought that was really good that you could bounce back after unfortunate 5s on the card, as you mentioned, on the previous two holes. 
SHAWN STEFANI:   Yeah, this game will throw you all kinds of loops.   I played really well all day.   I made some ‑‑ I made the putts when I had to and hit some good shots when I had to. 
Kind of lost focus on 16 green and 17 tee and you can't do that when you're coming down the stretch.   But I'm really excited about tomorrow and was pumped that I could make that putt on 18 and have some positive energy going into tomorrow.

Q.   When I talked with you earlier this week it was all about ending the year and getting ready for some hunting down in Texas.   You got a little something to play for on Sunday now. 
SHAWN STEFANI:   Yeah, I do.   But I'm still going to try to go out there and play golf and not worry about it too much.   We, obviously, all play to win golf tournaments, but there's also more to live than golf.   And I'm not saying hunting is more important, but I'm just kind of looking forward to having some time off, kind of rejuvenating and working on my game and getting ready for the 2015 part of it.

Q.   Of course it would always be nice to go out on a winning note.   Good luck in the final round. 
SHAWN STEFANI:   Yeah.   Thank you.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT