OHL CLASSIC AT MAYAKOBA
November 14, 2014
Shawn Stefani
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   17 out of 18 greens for Shawn Stefani on Friday.   You seemed really comfortable out there.   How did you get into a good rhythm?   
SHAWN STEFANI:   You know, I've been hitting the ball really well for quite some time now.   The last few days really has been credit to my putter.   I kind of figured something out on Wednesday and just kind of focused on that.   I've kind of come from slow, kind of grainy Bermuda greens, which these are Paspalum, but I've kind of grew up on this.   I felt really comfortable on the greens and therefore I made a lot of putts.   That's kind of what's put me where I am today.  
   
 Q.   Not that you have to fully reveal your secret, but what's been your focus on the greens that's been working through 36 holes?   
SHAWN STEFANI:   I try not to focus too much on the stroke and just letting it happen and freeing it up.   You know, we sometimes try too hard and get in our own way.   That's kind of what I've been doing here lately, trying to make a lot of putts.   I just said forget about it.   Let's go out there and try to stroke it the best we can and focus on what we can do.   That's really worked.   So I'm really going to do the best I can in the next few days to go out there and have a good time and do the same things on the putting.  
   
 Q.   Well done.   Following up a good opening round with a good second round.   What was the key to the round out there?   
SHAWN STEFANI:   All putting really.   I kind of looked at my stats last night and saw that I had hit a bunch of fairways but not as many as I have been here lately.   Out here if you can keep the ball in play, obviously not in the hazard, you can still have some pretty good lies around there.   But the key to my good play in the last few days has been the putting.   I've just made a lot of putts and it's nice to finally kind of see the ball going in the hole.   Because I've been playing well lately and it's nice to see something coming out of my rounds.  
   
 Q.   The breeze was up more this morning than yesterday.   How did that change how the golf course played?   
SHAWN STEFANI:   It made some of the holes a little easier today.   But for the most part it didn't really affect us too much this morning.   It was up a little bit, but not too much.   I think we kind of got the better wave with there being light winds yesterday, and I think the wind is going to pick up this afternoon.   I didn't think it played too difficult this morning.   Obviously when you're playing well that kind of shadows a lot of stuff too.   But I don't think the weather was too bad this morning at all.  
   
 Q.   You're one of the few players that was able to get through that medical extension and get your status back.   How are you feeling now as you head into this season?   
SHAWN STEFANI:   I feel great.   I'm actually kind of‑‑ I've been a little bit tired the last few events but excited this week because I know it's the last event until January.   I'm just kind of looking forward to some time off, but my body has been feeling good and everything.   The only thing is you get a little mentally tired from playing so much.   But really looking forward to next‑‑ well, it's already next season, so I'm just really looking forward to getting off to this year.   Steve Tims gave me that exemption back in Houston for my last medical start, and it's been great.   
I know what happened to Steve Stricker when he gave it to Stricker in 2006 I think maybe.   I've just been feeling good and playing good, and hopefully just keep it up.  
   
 Q.   This is a great place to rest this afternoon and go out and enjoy the beach?  
SHAWN STEFANI:   That's what I'm going to do.   Go eat some lunch and get to the hotel room and maybe take a little nap because we got up early and go to the beach and enjoy it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT