SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
November 7, 2014
Shawn Stefani
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You've got to be delighted with that. 
SHAWN STEFANI:   Yeah, you know, it was good.   I didn't think the scores were‑‑ I didn't know how low the scores would be today because it was kind of chilly this morning and a little bit of wind.   They had some good pins out there.   But I managed to kind of miss it in the right spots and get up‑and‑down when I missed a few greens.   All in all, it was a really solid day today.

Q.   Just the one bogey, bounced back on the next hole, 14 greens hit, two days in a row you're ball‑striking has got to give you a lot of confidence going into the weekend. 
SHAWN STEFANI:   Yeah, my ball‑striking has been great all year, really.   I've just kind of struggled with the putter.   I'm just trying to simplify some things putting.   I know if I can just putt halfway decent, I'll be able to contend each week. 
I feel great about the ball‑striking and just when you give yourself a ton of opportunities each day, it's hard to make all of them, but if I can get a few to go this weekend, we'll definitely be in good position.

Q.   Tell us a little bit about the course.   It's an interesting combination, some very hard holes and some very scorable holes. 
SHAWN STEFANI:   Yeah, there's a few holes on the back that are kind of tough and a few on the front, but you just have to really be patient around here because where they put the pins on some of these greens is really tough.   If you try to go flag hunting, you put yourself in a bad spot and you can't get the ball up‑and‑down.   The greens are just so perfect this week.   They're fast, they're firm, and if you put yourself short‑sided, it's hard to get them up‑and‑down.   If you can put yourself on the fat side and give yourself opportunities and be patient, I think you can roll a few in and always manage a good score out here.

Q.   Just a couple of small layers, no problem for a man as tough as you?
SHAWN STEFANI:   Yeah, it's funny because I actually woke up, my lower back was really tight this morning.   I went in the trailer and stretched out a little bit, and I didn't really know how today was going to go.   It's funny how sometimes when you don't feel your best physically, you play good.   I think it kind of takes the expectations of playing really well out, so you just kind of go out there and play and see what happens, and maybe my back will be bothering me the next few days, too. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT