WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 2, 2014
Shawn Stefani
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Back nine first and birdied four of your first five holes.   That's the way to start the second round of the Wells Fargo Championship. 
SHAWN STEFANI:   Yeah, it was nice, man, I started out hitting some good shots, hit a couple close and actually rolled some really good putts.   Man, it was nice to get off to a good start like that and to make a bunch. 

Q.   Can we talk about that putt on the 4th, from 40‑plus feet away?   You had to come across the green and you rolled it right in. 
SHAWN STEFANI:   I was trying to get a line and get the best putt I could, and if you get close, great.   You don't want to leave yourself too long of a second putt, and I hit it and the about 10 feet out.   I thought, man, that looks good, but it's got a lot of speed, and it hit the back of the hole and it was nice to see it go in. 

Q.   I know you haven't played a lot of tournament golf so far this year, and can you update the folks on that and what you have been doing to produce a good two rounds. 
SHAWN STEFANI:   I was injured last year, had a minor medical for this year, had a couple tournaments to get it back and Steve Timms in Houston was gracious enough to give me a sponsor exemption in Houston, and I played well there.   It was nice to get back out and play. 
I've been playing well all year, and I just haven't had the starts, and I wanted to pick and choose where I was going to go and play well, so it was nice to play well in Houston and retain status out here, but like I said, I've been playing well.   It's just a matter of getting back out here and getting some tournaments under my belt. 

Q.   Finished fifth in Houston.   We will see what the weekend holds for Shawn Stefani. 
SHAWN STEFANI:   Thank you. 

Q.   Shawn, off to a hot start.   Talk about your second rounds. 
SHAWN STEFANI:   Today was about patience, and I started off really hot the beginning of the round, and in the middle of the round I started making some bad swings, and I told myself to make adjustments and stay patient and see how the rest of the day went.   Luckily for me I started making better swings and made a long one on No. 4 on the back nine, so it was a great day.   I had a lot of fun out there. 

Q.   You played well on the back nine here.   Is there something you like about the back nine? 
SHAWN STEFANI:   No, nothing in particular.   You know, you're going out there and playing, and seeing what you can do.   I did the best I could today, and maybe the back nine suits my eye better, but I don't think there is any rhyme or reason to it. 

Q.   You're going to be going out a little later tomorrow.   What do you need to keep doing well this weekend to have a nice finish on Sunday? 
SHAWN STEFANI:   Smile, have a good time.   That's what we play for.   We try to put ourselves in a position to win, and I know tomorrow is Saturday, but this is the position you want to be in and I'm going to go out there tomorrow and have a good time and keep doing what I'm doing and see how well I can do it. 

Q.   Outside of that blemish obviously finishing up, what a great round for you today.   Can you talk a little bit about the fact that you're right there heading into the weekend? 
SHAWN STEFANI:   Yeah, it was a great day.   I started off really well, had some great shots, rolled some good putts in and in the middle of the round started hitting crooked but made a little adjustment and started hitting better shots and giving myself better opportunities.   Unfortunately, on 9 I hit it in that fairway bunker, but it was such a great day, and to play solid on Friday and give myself a chance during the weekend is where we want to be. 

Q.   What's it going to take this weekend to be at the top of it going into Saturday and Sunday? 
SHAWN STEFANI:   It's hard to tell.   The scores were obviously good yesterday and today.   We've got some great weather.   There is not much wind.   Obviously yesterday afternoon there was a lot of wind for the guys but right now the conditions are pretty benign, great for scoring.   The greens are perfect and the course is in great shape, and I know when you have great weather on a great golf course like this, the guys' attitudes are really good.   Good scores are yielded when everybody's attitude is pretty good. 

Q.   Are you able to relax at this point?   Obviously you know you're in a great position.   Is it going to be difficult to sleep going into Saturday?   Or are you just confident with how you're playing right now? 
SHAWN STEFANI:   No, I can't worry about when I tee off and what the situation is.   I've put myself in position a few times going into Saturday and Sunday.   It's been a while, since last year but, you know, all we can do is build off of it and try and go out there and have a good time and learn from it and do the best I can.   That's all I can do for the next few days. 

Q.   With the weather being the way it is and the course, all the guys seem to love the course, does that make it fun? 
SHAWN STEFANI:   Definitely.   Obviously you gotta have a good attitude coming in, but, you know, when you have weather like this and a golf course like this, it's just awesome.   What they've done here with the changes are great and the greens are pretty impeccable, for being only a year old.   It's nice to have the weather this good and to be able to play a golf course in this good of shape.   







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT