SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 4, 2014
Shawn Stefani
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  SHAWN STEFANI:   I finished well.   Made a pretty big bomb on No. 8 from about 60 feet or so.   Honestly was just trying to get it close, you know, and luckily for me it went in.   So, it was nice to end the day that well, and, you know, the whole day was good. 
I stayed patient out there.   We had a lot of winds out there out of the north which was a totally different direction than yesterday.   But, played very solid.   Hit the ball well and even putted well.   So, obviously when you have conditions like this, short game is very important and making good putts to keep momentum.   I managed to do that all day.

Q.   What do you think going into the weekend tied for second place; is that right? 
SHAWN STEFANI:   I guess.

Q.   What is it going to take to elevate your game up to the next level? 
SHAWN STEFANI:   Keep doing what I'm doing.   I've been playing great all year.   Haven't been putting great all year, but got a quick lesson from Dave Stockton yesterday and it really had helped.   Kind of make the putting more natural and kind of use your ability and your talent. 
So, you know, if I just keep doing what I'm doing and stay patient with the process of everything, then I think this weekend will be a good deal.

Q.   So the wind didn't affect your game at all today?
SHAWN STEFANI:   There was a few shots I didn't hit great.   Made a few mistakes and kind of hit it in the water, hit it in the hazard.   On a day like today it's going to happen.   You got to stay patient, like I said, and keep doing the best you can and hitting the best shots you can and see where you end up at the end of the day.

Q.   What does it mean to have this kind of performance on this kind of stage?
SHAWN STEFANI:   You know, it's really nice because as a kid you dream about playing in your home town event.   First of all, you dream about getting on the PGA TOUR and playing in your home town event and playing well.   So, growing up I played the HGA tournaments.   What Steve Timms has done here with this tournament and you know what they do for the HGA is amazing, and I'm just glad to be a part of this event, because growing up I've played Junior Golf since I was ten years old here, and it's just nice to be able to come out here and play well at home.

Q.   Do you feel more pressure being at home?
SHAWN STEFANI:   Not so much.   I mean honestly, if anything, it's probably more positive energy because you got all your friends and family out here, you know, supporting you and, you know, sometimes that's a good thing.   And I'm just trying to do the best I can anyway.   And, you know, whatever I do is really the best I can, and it's all going to work out no matter what.   So, you just go out there and play and see how it goes.

Q.   Physically how are you doing?   You've had some neck problems in the past, right?
SHAWN STEFANI:   Yeah, I had herniated C-6, 7 in my neck last year that was pinching a nerve.   Missed a couple of events coming down the stretch last year which was kind of crucial to keeping my status.   Unfortunately, I didn't and lucky the Tour gave me a couple minor medical starts this year to make up that difference.   I used one at Torrey Pines and didn't play so well, and coming into here I've been playing well, so I was looking forward to this event.

Q.   How many more exemptions do you have?
SHAWN STEFANI:   Gave me two.   This is the second one.

Q.   Your last one?
SHAWN STEFANI:   Yes. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT