U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 16, 2013
Shawn Stefani
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   (No Microphone.)  
SHAWN STEFANI:   I didn't know what to do but jump up‑and‑down for joy.   
   
 Q.   Kissing the ground?  
SHAWN STEFANI:   We're in Philly.   There's some great fans up here and I know they can be tough on you and they can love you forever.   So I'm sure they appreciated me going to the ground and kissing it, because obviously the ground is where the kick started and the ball kicking right and going on the green.   
   
 Q.   (No Microphone.)  
SHAWN STEFANI:   No.   Enough said on that.  
   
 Q.   Obviously the shot you hit, are you expecting that shot where it was going to where it would go in the hole?  
SHAWN STEFANI:   Not at all.   I was just ‑‑ I was actually trying to hit the left side of the green and cut it.   And then I kind of pulled it.   I pulled it about five yards.   And the wind was kind of down off the left and it really didn't help at all.   It didn't move it to the right.   
And honestly I think I've seen a bunch of balls that week kind of not kick to the right and I was really surprised to see the ball kick to the right.   And then once it did kick, it kept rolling and I was like, well this could be good.   And the fans stood up and then it kept getting closer and closer and then when it went in, I was just super excited because it's the first hole‑in‑one I've ever had in a tournament.  
   
 Q.   You've had others, but not in a tournament?  
SHAWN STEFANI:   Just one other.  
   
 Q.   Which is?  
SHAWN STEFANI:   I was 13 years old.   Goose Creek Country Club where I grew up playing golf on No. 16.   
   
 Q.   Goose Creek?  
SHAWN STEFANI:   Country club.   
   
 Q.   In?  
SHAWN STEFANI:   Baytown, Texas.   
   
 Q.   Incredible atmosphere around that 17th green because you've holed it in front of one of the biggest stands on the golf course.   But up by the tee there is no one there.   You could only celebrate with your caddie and your playing partner.   
SHAWN STEFANI:   Yeah, it was kind of funny because I jumped up and really didn't know what to do.   Because I never made one in a tournament before.   But obviously all the guys that were around, gave them high‑fives.   Kyle Stanley and his caddie and my caddie and then Scott Van Pelt was over there and I kind of walked over to him, I go, that's probably going to be a No. 1 on Sportscenter tonight.   Which would be kind of cool.   But nobody knows what's going to happen after that.  
   
 Q.   What have you done with the ball?  
SHAWN STEFANI:   It's hiding right now.   I'm going to save it.   I'm going to save the ball.   I mean, obviously I got to get a plaque or something from here and then put it in a little case.  
   
 Q.   So you have the ball or it's going to the USGA?  
SHAWN STEFANI:   I do have the ball.   Unless they want it.   Depends on what they want to do with it.   
   
 Q.   I think Merion would want it.   
SHAWN STEFANI:   Well, there's a price for everything.   
   
 Q.   So we're not going to be able to see the ball.   
SHAWN STEFANI:   Sure.   Bring me the ball.  
   
 Q.   Talk about, from a U.S. Open experience, for your experience, and just to be able to end on that and to go out of Philly and just have that memory, what's that like?  
SHAWN STEFANI:   I actually had a great week.   It started last week when I qualified for the U.S. Open and started the week off really well and played solid.   Played solid the first two days.   
Unfortunately, I had a rough day yesterday, which you start hitting it crooked out here and that can happen.   And I just kind of went out today with the attitude of just go have some fun and enjoy it.   
And to end the way I did with an ace on 17 and to have the crowd go crazy, the fans go crazy and everything was just, it was definitely a very positive experience at the end of it.   
   
 Q.   What club was it?  
SHAWN STEFANI:   The club was a 4‑iron.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT