WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 20, 2016
Shawn Stefani
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Ace at 16.  Everybody wants to know what club you hit.  How did it happen?  
SHAWN STEFANI: I had 153 yards just over the bunker.  I wanted to make sure I cleared the bunker.  I didn't know exactly which direction the wind was coming out of.   
So, I had 153 hole, 146 cover.  Let's get on this 9-iron.  I just striped it right at it.  It was nice to hit it solid, honestly, because the pin is not in a very good, easy spot even though you have a 9-iron in your hand.  To see it go in is just a bonus.   
 Q.  Better though a 66 just like you did on Thursday, 8-under and right now you're right there, you're 126 in the FedExCup Points.  
 How do you approach tomorrow?  You need another 66, I think?   
SHAWN STEFANI: I don't know what I need.  I just need to go play golf.  That's the first thing I need to do at this point.  I'm looking at like I don't have anything to lose.  I'm outside the number.  All I can do is go out there and play.   
I know it's cliche, "One shot at a time", what everybody says but at the end of the day that's all I can do and if it works out, great.  If it doesn't, so be it.  Just life.   
 Q.  Great round of golf and great shot.  Thank you.  
SHAWN STEFANI: Appreciate it, guys.  3rd ace on Tour.  I had one Hole-In-One before I got on Tour and I've made three in the last three years.   
 Q.  The one at Merion.  
SHAWN STEFANI: Merion, Palm Springs, I can't remember if that was in -- it was the -- it was last year, '15.  So, yeah.  Here today.   
 Q.  What was the one at Palm Springs, what club?  
SHAWN STEFANI: 5-iron from like 202 and LaQuinta on No. 3.   
 Q.  Merion on was like a 4-iron.  
SHAWN STEFANI: Pull hook, double cross.  Got a good bounce and went in.   
 Q.  What about this one?  
SHAWN STEFANI: 9-iron from 153.   
 Q.  Right on spot?  
SHAWN STEFANI: I hit it pretty good.  The 5-iron I hit last year was good, just a good, solid shot.  This one was good as well.  The 4-iron, the one -- probably the one at Merion is probably the most memorable obviously, a US Open and nobody ever made one there in a tournament like that.  It's a double cross one, pull hook it and make it was even better.   
 Q.  This one did you know pretty quickly it was going to be at least close off the club face?  
SHAWN STEFANI: I just hit it well.  All I was trying to do was get on that ridge.  The pin, you miss it left, miss the green left, tough up and down.  Miss it right, it's not an easy two-putt.  I was just trying to put it on the ridge and not leave myself a long putt.   
 Q.  No vacations for life.  
SHAWN STEFANI: I don't know.  I'm going to have to talk to Mark Brazil and the guys at Wyndham.  At least get a week vacation somewhere.   
 Q.  What about Quicken Loans and giving another person --  
SHAWN STEFANI: This is great.  This is the third time I've made a Hole-In-One on Tour, third time I've gotten somebody a mortgage payment for a year.  I mean I'm just a giver, Royce.   
That's just the way I am.  And I'm just a generous guy.  Everybody knows that about me.  And, hopefully, I'll make another one tomorrow and give somebody else, some lucky fan another mortgage free for a year.   
 Q.  How much are you coming into the week looking at scenarios of things like that?  
SHAWN STEFANI: You know, obviously we all know I've got to play good.  That's all it boils down to. If I play good, I do.  If I don't, I don't.  That's just how I'm trying to approach it.   
Obviously there's stress and pressure out there.  I try not to focus on that.  I'm trying to hit the shot, each shot the best I can every time and just be patient.  Today I stayed patient out there all day and it worked out well for me in the end.   
 Q.  What do you think you've done well this week?  Anything stand out or anything gotten better?  
SHAWN STEFANI: I didn't putt the ball as well today but I struck it well.  I didn't finish very good yesterday.  I'm not feeling a hundred percent.  My allergies -- I don't know if it's allergies, cold or whatever.  But, you know, I'm just trying to not burn a lot of energy and then from there on just play golf, you know, and see what happens.   
 Q.  Is it that usual, "Beware of the sick golfer" because they stay within themselves kind of thing?  
SHAWN STEFANI: I don't know if I'm sick or just allergies.  I really don't know.  I wish I was a doctor, I would tell you.  I got my temperature checked yesterday, I wasn't running a temperature but I'm -- I feel more like it's something in my head, like sinus congestion than it is allergies.   
I'm going to keep taking some allergy medicine and sleep like nine hours a night and see what happens.   
 Q.  What was the first ace, you had one before Tour?  
SHAWN STEFANI: No. 16 at Goose Creek Country Club.  I was 13 years old, long time ago.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT