JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 11, 2015
Shawn Stefani
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  SHAWN STEFANIQ. Shawn, 7-under, 64 in the third round, obviously a lot of birdies out there today.SHAWN STEFANI: Yeah, there was.  It was pretty soft, you know, obviously with the rain we had this morning, but you know, when you get the greens like this and the course is playing soft, you can kind of fire at the flags and take advantage of it.  So these last couple of groups we did that and it was kind of nice.Q. Was this the best day of the tournament for scoring so far?SHAWN STEFANI: I mean I guess so, you know.  The golf course has been kind of soft all week, but today was just a little bit softer than the first two, and it was actually kind of starting to firm up a little bit yesterday, but with the rains we had this morning, it softened up a lot. But you know, the greens are rolling really good, and typically when you've got really good greens and they're soft, you can kind of attack, and you can make a lot of putts.Q. Delayed tee time didn't matter to you at all?SHAWN STEFANI: No, it didn't.  I mean you know, we just kind of hung out in the locker room, took it easy.  Everybody was kind of shooting the breeze in the locker room, kind of having a good time. You know, I was actually happy that I got to tee off late because I didn't have to play in the rain.  Last week I had a couple of tee times in the rain, so it didn't bother me at all to kind of wait it out today and get a late start.Q. Good round out there today.  Talk about that and how it went.SHAWN STEFANI: It was great.  Just hit some really good shots, drove the ball really well today and gave myself a lot of opportunities for birdie and capitalized on most of them.  Missed a few opportunities that were very makeable, but it's going to happen out here.Q. What do you need to do tomorrow?  You're going to be three shots back, it looks like.  What do you need to do tomorrow?  Be aggressive or what's going to be your strategy here?SHAWN STEFANI: No.  I'm going to play conservative and not go for any of the flags and hopefully I don't catch Jordan.  (Laughs). No, I'm going to go out there and play aggressive, just keep doing what I'm doing.  I struck the ball really well today and gave myself a lot of opportunities and that's kind of what I'm going to have to do tomorrow. I mean Jordan had a great round today.  I was playing behind him all day, and he had a lot of fireworks out there, a lot of good things happen to him and he's going to come out firing tomorrow, and I'm going to have to do the same. You know, being aggressive is going to be the key, and try to make as much as I can happen.Q. Not being in the same group is probably going to help you out a little bit do you think, being ahead of him?SHAWN STEFANI: I mean yeah, theoretically it helps, but you know, it's a lot easier to play with the leader and know what they're doing and that way you can kind of dictate what you're doing.  I'm just happy to be up here in contention.  That's kind of what I play for, we all play for.  And to give myself an opportunity tomorrow is where I want to be.  So we'll go out there tomorrow and try to have those fireworks in front of him like he did in front of me today.Q. Sean, you found seven birdies out on that golf course today, including one at the 18th.SHAWN STEFANI: Yeah, it was nice, man.  I struck my golf ball really well today and gave myself a lot of opportunities.  I actually missed a few putts today, but you know, it's a solid round.  I mean 7-under on any day out here is a great day and was very happy with the way I struck it, and if I can keep hitting it like that tomorrow, I'll definitely give myself a chance to win this thing.Q. Had a pretty good seat to see the Jordan Spieth fireworks, too.  You were one group behind.SHAWN STEFANI: Yeah, it's amazing.  Every hole we would hear a loud roar, and we would say, well, Jordan made that putt or well, nice par 14, and then he holes it out on 17 and we're like, well, good 3 three.  It was kind of funny at the same time as being kind of motivating.  He's obviously making a lot of birdies out there and you're trying to catch up or stay around him, and what he finished, I don't know, 2, 3.Q. 61.SHAWN STEFANI: Yeah.  You can't beat somebody who's finishing 4-under the last three.  So I gave it my best and played a great round today, and if I give it my best tomorrow and give him what I know I can, we'll definitely have a chance to win this thing.Q. Yeah.  You didn't need to beat him today.  You need to finish ahead of him on Sunday.  I know you have a chance.  Thank you.SHAWN STEFANI: Yeah, thanks, Fred.  Appreciate it.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT