WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC: 1ST ROUND POOL C
March 11, 2017
Nelson Cruz
Manny Machado
Starling Marte
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Dominican Republic - 7, USA - 5   
 Q.  You got revenge.  When you go to bat, were you thinking of that?  
NELSON CRUZ: That's a pitcher who can strike you out.  So simply I wanted to put the ball in play.  Thank God the ball stayed up and was not a foul ball, and what you live through at that moment there are no words to express it.   
 Q.  I wanted to ask you what does a win like this mean to you, in a short tournament where every win is important?  
NELSON CRUZ: We feel very confident, a renewed confidence, to be able to defeat teams such as the U.S. team, with the relievers that we have.  There are many things that we can do as a team.  Manny woke us up with that home run, and we as players and the fans as well.   
 Q.  Machado, describe that sensation, to connect, to help the guys.  
MANNY MACHADO: The other team was playing one heck of a game, so I was trying to do something for the team, to get it started.  I know that we are a better team, but we started bad, but our fans gave us their support and we kept going ahead non-stop after that.   
 Q.  Nelson, when you saw that home run, and you see those fans, what did you think when were you rounding the bases?  
NELSON CRUZ: Even in Little League when you are a little kid you get so emotional that you don't know what to do at that moment.  First you have to keep calm in situations like that and to thank God, because he gave me the opportunity to hit that home run.  For us as players and for the fans that are here, but maybe for the whole of the Dominican Republic, I know that they were with us.  The whole country stopped and is watching us.  So in the end it was huge.   
 Q.  Several times you hit 40 home runs in the Major Leagues.  With which home run can you compare this one that you hit for the Dominican Republic?  And Manny, this was your first home run for the Dominican Republic.  Precisely what crossed your mind when you saw the ball go over the fence?  
MANNY MACHADO: Something special.  To begin with, wearing this uniform, I'm proud.  I thank God that I was given the opportunity to be part of this team and represent the Dominican Republic and all the fans in the Dominican Republic is a great pride.   
NELSON CRUZ: Maybe a game against Detroit, home runs in the World Series, but I think that the flavor, the taste of this one is most special, is more special because you're playing for your country, no matter what team you play, the people are supporting you.  In the U.S. when you play the game, it is like a business.  When you leave people, forget about you.  But when you play for the Dominican Republic, the fans always support you.   
 Q.  Nelson, things were not working out at the beginning, there was a play that you couldn't achieve, and then you had an opportunity that you could not take advantage of for the DR.  Did you feel you had a debt to the Dominican Republic?  
NELSON CRUZ: Yes, I'll say as a player you always have debts, since the first turn at bat.  It doesn't matter the situations or the game, what have you done or not done, every at-bat is important and we try to focus each one at a time.  God made it that way.  Only in a movie or a dream can you describe what happened today.   
 Q.  Nelson, 0-2 in that at-bat, a slider, a slider, you went looking for a pitch.  Were you expecting it?  
NELSON CRUZ: He's a pitcher that everyone knows that if he says his slider is coming, it's difficult to hit it.  The first pitch I wanted to see, to see the rotation.  It was a very difficult pitch.  On the third one that I hit, I wanted to get the ball flying, but my goal was to hit the ball.   
 Q.  Two things:  There are two home runs in the same inning.  Your home run just went put you over the top, what was that sensation?  And then physically, how do you feel?  
STARLING MARTE: Well, first of all, Miller is a very difficult pitcher.  You cannot focus on the pitching -- you have to focus on the breaking ball, his best pitch.  But I simply I saw the ball coming and my reaction, an inside-out and I was able to put a good swing on it.   
 Q.  (No microphone).  
STARLING MARTE: It bothered me, but I can play.  I can play.   
 Q.  Manny and Nelson, there is a video that became viral this week in which Manny was telling that Nelson sent him food on the first day in his Major Leagues, that he called him dad.  How do you feel being a dad, and from the father to the son with the home run today?  
MANNY MACHADO: There is nothing to say.  The feelings are all pride of knowing him and having him as a fellow player, and especially a good friend that who has helped me a lot.  We are playing for our country and that's what he's teaching me.  Not only for us, but also for the Dominican Republic, and that we will always be Latin.  We will always be Dominicans.   
NELSON CRUZ: Well, when I sent it to him, I did not know him.  I heard about him as a player.  I like Dominican food, and it's so hard to get it when you are on the road.  So there was no better welcome than to send food to Manny, and since then we became friends when I had the chance to play with him in Baltimore.  All the things that I knew at that time, I had tried to teach him and Jonathan (Schoop).  So he has enough talent.  You don't have to tell him many things.  He can do everything on the field easily, not only bat or play defensively, and not only as a good player but as a good young man, respectful and he always plays hard.   
 Q.  For the three of you, you were losing 5-0 early in the game.  Was there any type of strategy in the dugout to be able to come from behind the way you did little by little, the way you did it?  
STARLING MARTE: Yes, well, the game is not over until you have 27 outs.  Even when we did made error in center field, someone pulled me to the side, there is a lot of game left.  Stay positive and do what you know how to do.  Forget about that, and from then on we focused on the pitching, we got to see the ball well, and that's how the game -- when you have 27 outs, we came from behind, we gave our best, and that was the result.   
 Q.  Your first participation in the Classic, you got hurt, you couldn't play in the first game.  Wearing the Dominican Republic jersey for the first time, and then an error that could have been costly.  What crossed through your mind?  And then you had a double, home run.  What did Peña tell you in the dugout to help you perform like that in the game?  
STARLING MARTE: Well, it is difficult when you make an error and it costs runs, but I placed my mind where it needed to be.  I kept my spirits came up, I continued to play ball and that's why we could come from behind.  Anybody can commit an error, you have to continue to play hard and give the best of yourself.   
 Q.  In addition to the home runs that you hit, I saw you running through the bases visibly excited.  How much did that impact you, playing for the Dominican Republic, when you're running around the bases?  
NELSON CRUZ: As I said, in the Little Leagues it's the only place where can you have so much fun in situations like this when have you a home run.  I think that you saw the fans, whoever did not feel that experience, is dead or ought to have a checkup.  The simple fact of playing, it already motivated you because the fans never left the game, and I know that there are many people who traveled from many parts of the Dominican Republic and from the United States just to watch this game and I'm always thanking God that he gave us the opportunity for them to leave happy, that their trip was worth it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT