WIMBLEDON
June 23, 2009
Georgie Stoop
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 V. ZVONAREVA/G. Stoop
  7-6, 4-6, 6-4 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Can you sort of sum up how you're feeling right now.   
 GEORGIE STOOP: Feeling pretty down. But on the other hand, that was a great experience for me today. I fought as hard as I possibly could, and I thought I gave a really good performance.   
 Obviously I'm a bit disappointed because obviously I would love to have won.   
  
  Q. You were so close in the final set. Do you think maybe experience...   
 GEORGIE STOOP: I definitely think the experience was probably the key factor at the end of the match. But, uhm, you know, she's 7 in the world for a reason. I think that's probably the reason why.   
  
  Q. What did you do last night?   
 GEORGIE STOOP: I was okay actually. I left here about 10:00 and went straight back to my house, ate and went straight to bed.   
  
  Q. You didn't dream about what might happen today?  
 GEORGIE STOOP: No dreams (smiling).   
  
  Q. What was your mindset coming into today? Was it completely nothing to lose, or were you starting to feel that you could win it?  
 GEORGIE STOOP: Of course, you have those feelings of, you know, I could possibly win this, having come off last night, you know, having made it a set all.   
 To be honest, I was still out there with nothing to lose. But you still want to win, so...   
  
  Q. What were you listening to on the iPod?  
 GEORGIE STOOP: I was listening to Spin Doctors.   
  
  Q. Vera was struggling with her ankles. Did you know in advance that would be a problem for her? Having seen how she struggled, coming back today, did you have a tactic to try to move her around the court?  
 GEORGIE STOOP: Yeah, I did feel that. But on the other hand, when you're playing against people who are injured, it's sometimes even tougher to play your game because there's always -- you're always thinking maybe at the back of your mind, Are they really fit? Is everything okay?   
 But to be honest, I don't think anything was -- nothing in my game changed today. I did everything I possibly could to win.  
  
  Q. Did you find it easier because she was ranked so far above you in world?  
 GEORGIE STOOP: No, not at all. I think I went out there and I played as well as I could in the situation I was in, to be honest.   
  
  Q. But after last night, there were a lot of people out there would have hoped you could do something special today.   
 GEORGIE STOOP: Yeah, no.   
  
  Q. Did you feel any of that pressure?  
 GEORGIE STOOP: Of course I felt a little bit of pressure, but it was more a case of wanting to win so much.   
 But, no, I think she -- like I said, I think she's ranked No. 7 in the world for a reason.  
  
  Q. Taking into account where you were this time last year and where you are now, are you then confident that next year you can come back and build on this?  
 GEORGIE STOOP: Yeah, definitely. I think I can take a lot of confidence out of today. I think there's a lot of positives I can take back to the drawing board as of this afternoon.   
 You know, I think to be here next year is a massive goal of mine, and hopefully on my own ranking.  
  
  Q. You seemed to be reading something I think yesterday when you were 4-1 down at the changeover, and again today. Can you tell us what that was?   
 GEORGIE STOOP: It's a personal thing. But it was just something to remind me of a few things I needed to do.   
  
  Q. Have you spoken to any of the other girls? It's not been the best couple of days so far.   
 GEORGIE STOOP: No, I haven't spoken to any of the girls. We generally keep ourselves to ourselves. You know, we all take our losses differently; therefore, I just get on with my own thing.  
  
  Q. Have you followed the other results?  
 GEORGIE STOOP: I followed them. But most of the time the matches have been on at the same time as me; therefore I haven't been able to watch them. I haven't really been there to do anything with them.   
  
  Q. 'Cause this was supposed to be a great chance for British women's tennis.   
 GEORGIE STOOP: Yeah, no, I think British tennis, women's tennis, this year especially, I mean, the men are doing better, and we are as well. I think, you know, everyone comes into Wimbledon with these expectations, but I think this year's been an unbelievable year, for the women especially.   
  
  Q. What's the biggest thing you've learnt from this?  
 GEORGIE STOOP: That I can compete with the highest girls. I mean, it's been an amazing experience for me. Like I said, I just want to be back here next year. I feel that there's not that big a difference. I think one massive thing is the experience.   
  
  Q. Did you not feel that before this match, before here?  
 GEORGIE STOOP: Yeah, you do. But I think the more you play against these higher-ranked girls, the better they are, you get to realize actually they're not actually that far ahead of you, so...   
  
  Q. Are we wrong to wait for Laura Robson to turn 18, 21, and win something big for Britain? Are there others a bit older than her among the movers and shakers?  
 GEORGIE STOOP: I think there are a few of the same or similar age. I think Laura is a very, very good player, to be honest. I think she can be very good.   
 Same with the girls a little bit above her. I think they could be very good, as well.   
  
  Q. Was there a part of you that just thought, Drat, it got dark. I know you can never know, but it did feel like you were in the...   
 GEORGIE STOOP: I feel I had the momentum going with me. I felt really confident going into the third set.   
 But to be honest, I think to see the ball was really difficult last night. Even at 3-All when I looked at the sky I was struggling, and therefore went to the chair umpire.   
 She said, No, we have to carry on until the referee of the tournament comes out. I think it was for both of us. You know, she obviously didn't want to carry on because the momentum wasn't in her favor.   
 But either way it didn't really bother me.   
  
  Q. How do you feel the crowd helped you both last night and also today?  
 GEORGIE STOOP: Oh, it was a fantastic environment. To be honest, I've never played in a situation like this before, and I felt really good out there. To have so many people behind me was an amazing experience.   
  
  Q. Where do you go from here? What's next?  
 GEORGIE STOOP: I'm playing doubles with Laura Robson. I think it's tomorrow. And then hopefully we'll win a couple of rounds maybe.   
 And then, uhm, after this I think I'm staying in Europe for the rest of the summer before the US Open.   
  
  Q. Have you had a chance to play with Laura much in the doubles yet?  
 GEORGIE STOOP: No. We've actually got a practice this afternoon.   
  
  Q. You're playing another British pair in the doubles. Might add a bit of extra spice.   
 GEORGIE STOOP: It's funny, I played doubles with Anna Smith last year when we played Wimbledon main draw last year, so we sort of know each other quite well. We all train pretty much together.   
 So, yeah, I mean, it's gonna be a great match, and hopefully we'll come out on top.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT