THORNBERRY CREEK LPGA CLASSIC
July 3, 2019
Gabbrielle Lemeiux
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: All right, we're here inside the Thornberry Creek LPGA Classic media center with Gabby Lemeiux; ou are one of the sponsor invites this week.  How are you feeling after coming out of your pro-am round?   
GABRIELLE LEMEIUX: Not too bad.  You know, even though it was three hours I feel pretty refreshed.  Looking forward to what's going to happen tomorrow.   
THE MODERATOR: Is as professional golfer, as a Native American, being a professional just when it comes to golf, what has it been like since turning professional and representing your tribe on such a huge level?   
GABRIELLE LEMEIUX: It's been really exciting just because just being one of the only women professional golfers who is Native American you get so much I guess feedback from other tribes as well.  Doesn't have to be just my transcribe.   
Basically Indian Country is so supportive.  They're behind me 100%.  There are a couple people that I've talked to and they're like, I follow you on Instagram.  It's exciting to see where you're going.   
So it's nice to see that.   
THE MODERATOR: You have a pretty special connection here, too.  You were in last's Thornberry Classic.  What was that experience like for you?   
GABRIELLE LEMEIUX: Really nerve racking I think just coming from college and having this be my first professional event.  I think I let the nerves kind of get to me.  I think overall it was a great learning experience.   
I've taken all that information that I've learned and carried it into the whole next year.  I think it's helped me.   
THE MODERATOR: What have you learned from what maybe you did last year on this course to this year?   
GABRIELLE LEMEIUX: I'm definitely not going to end up in spots that I was in last year.  I think just being more comfortable out there is going to help me this year.   
THE MODERATOR: What are some of the best memories you've had so far being a professional and being around here again in Wisconsin?   
GABRIELLE LEMEIUX: I would have to say kind of like the spotlight.  I feel like the LPGA is always in the spotlight in terms of kids are wanting to come and get your signature and get to know who you are.   
I kind of like it just because I'm kind of a person that wants to talk to kids and say, You can do this.  Just be positive with them.   
THE MODERATOR: Has this always been a goal for you, to get on the LPGA Tour?   
GABRIELLE LEMEIUX: Yes, it's always been a goal.  You know, just to be able to be here and have my mom and my husband here with me, too, it's been an amazing, amazing thing.   
THE MODERATOR: When was it that you realized that you could take this golf talent with you and make it a professional living?   
GABRIELLE LEMEIUX: I would have to say when I was in college, when I reached No. 1 in the country at some point during my college career.  I think that's when it really hit me like, Okay, maybe I am you allowed -- like not allowed, but able to take this to the next step and try and make this a career.   
THE MODERATOR: What are your future goals for after this event and also some expectations going into this weekend?   
GABRIELLE LEMEIUX: I think my expectations for this week would be to have fun.  I think I took it a little too seriously last year just trying to perform as well as I could.  I think just this year coming out here having fun, hitting shots I know I can hit is I think going to help.   
Overall I don't think I have any expectations for the year to come.  I think just going out there and trying my best and getting through Q-School and all that I have to do to hopefully get on the LPGA full time.   
THE MODERATOR: With your friends and your family that are here this week, how much more special is this event and what does that do for your confidence level going into tomorrow?   
GABRIELLE LEMEIUX: Well, I have my husband on the bag so that helps a lot.  I'm able to tell him if I'm nervous or not.  He's able to give me that comfort.   
For my mom, this is the first time she's ever been to a professional event.  Ever.  Even PGA or LPGA.   
As or friends, it's just nice to see everybody and being supportive.   
THE MODERATOR: Your mom, when did she realize that this could be a professional living for you and what did she say when you decided to turn professional?   
GABRIELLE LEMEIUX: I think my mom and dad both knew that maybe this could be a career choice for me.  They've always been the ones to support me and want me to reach for higher goals.   
THE MODERATOR: All right.  Any questions out here?  Just in general, this is a huge event.  This is such a community-driven event.  Have you seen anything in the community that maybe strikes home to you as well?   
GABRIELLE LEMEIUX: I would say just this past weekend going to the pow-wow.  Absolutely loved that.  Everybody was like, Okay, yeah, you're native.  We want to support you no matter what.  Having that feedback and feeling like it's home was really, really good.   
THE MODERATOR: What's the relationship been like with the Oneida Nation?  They've done a lot for this event obviously.  What has this relationship been like for the past two years?   
GABRIELLE LEMEIUX: It's been honestly really good.  I've met a lot of amazing people that are willing to say, Hey, here is my phone number.  If you ever need anything, give me a call.  That feedback is awesome.   
THE MODERATOR: How special is it to realize you have the support of not just your tribe, but also just so many that have come to support, as you were saying on Instagram, or whether it's meeting you at an event?   
GABRIELLE LEMEIUX: I think it's just awesome to see that they're paying attention to upcoming Native American athletes in general.  I mean, I see people who talk about other native athletes who do basketball or Lacrosse or whatever it may be.  They're always supportive.   
THE MODERATOR: All right.  I think that does it for us here.  Thank you Gabby for coming through and best of luck this week.   
GABRIELLE LEMEIUX: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT