NBA DRAFT
June 28, 2012
Quincy Acy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Your thoughts on being drafted by Toronto?   
QUINCY ACY:   I'm blessed to be in this situation.   I really worked hard to put myself in this position, and I got my passport ready.   So I'm happy.   
   
 Q.   You were up in Toronto earlier; what did you think of the city when you were in Toronto?  
QUINCY ACY:   It's a beautiful city.   There's a lot of construction going on so they are building a lot.   It's beautiful out there.   I have a teammate, a former teammate that's from Canada and Toronto, so I mean, you know, he told me a lot about the city.  
   
 Q.   That's Brady (Heslip)?   
QUINCY ACY:   Brady Heslip.  
   
 Q.   What has he told you in particular?  
QUINCY ACY:   His uncle is part of the team and just great connections there.   When we got a chance to go out there this past summer, I got a good chance to look at the city.  
   
 Q.   What do you think you'll bring to the Raptors?   
QUINCY ACY:   Competitiveness and toughness.   I mean, I can be an exciting force off the bench; compete, be willing to do all the dirty work and help my team put themselves in a position to win games.   
   
 Q.   Tell me about your growth and development, you go to Baylor, kind of like an obscure school, and then all of a sudden you get the big‑time star in girls basketball and then you get the Heisman Trophy winner and then there's the basketball team that has some serious controversial issues but then you were part of the group that brought that back.   Tell me what that means to you.   
QUINCY ACY:   It means a lot.   That was the goal I set out when I chose to go to Baylor was to help to turn things around.   And to be in this position that I'm in now, it just means that I set a goal for myself and I achieved it.   It feels good to walk around in public and see guys wearing Baylor shirts.   It's just amazing what we've done with ourselves.   
   
 Q. As a youth yourself with opportunity, do you have certain things you would want to do in terms of a foundation or community service to say, I'm in that position that I can personally give back?   Have you thought of anything?  
QUINCY ACY:   Definitely.   Growing up, I know there was times I didn't have shoes.   So I always told myself if I was in a position to help others, that I would, and I've been thinking about that since I've been in college.   
So yeah, definitely, with the time that I have outside of basketball, I'm going to definitely do my job of giving back to the community.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT