ROLEX MONTE-CARLO MASTERS
April 18, 2019
Pierre-Hugues Herbert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
B. CORIC/P. Herbert   
6-4, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.   
 Q.  Did you have a pain on your thigh?  Can you confirm this?  Because we saw you having a massage in the second set.  
PIERRE-HUGUES HERBERT: Yeah, I had a little pain on the thigh, because I run a lot on the court during the last days, and I just asked for a warming cream on the thigh, on the left adductor.  But otherwise, nothing serious.   
 Q.  Was it not really bothering you?  Because at the end of the match, you served underhanded.  Is there any link?  
PIERRE-HUGUES HERBERT: No, I just didn't know where to serve anymore.  I hadn't been able to win any point on that side, so I tried a ridiculous shot.   
 Q.  Well, why not to serve underhanded?  
PIERRE-HUGUES HERBERT: I tried that because I couldn't manage to score any point with my serve, and the thing is that when you serve underhanded and you manage to put the ball in, then you're hero, a champion, but when you fail, you are just a dummy.  This is what happened at that point.   
 Q.  Are you really disappointed?  If you had to score the level of your disappointment, what would you say?  Or despite everything, this is positive because you have won already two matches during this tournament?  
PIERRE-HUGUES HERBERT: I'm always disappointed after a defeat.  I'm not smiling as much as I was yesterday.   
Then as regards the scale of my disappointment, it is true that this one was not as terrible as others, because he was the best player out there and I didn't find any solution today.  He played better placing the ball in the right angles at the right time all along the match, so I have to admit that he was the best.  I have to congratulate him for that.   
 Q.  What's the problem with him?  He's a real fighter?  He's very strong?  What is difficult against him?  
PIERRE-HUGUES HERBERT: Well, he's a very complete player.  He's got a good serve, good forehand, good backhand.  He has an excellent backhand.  I don't think he has made many mistakes on that backhand.  He hits the ball deep in the court.  They're heavy.   
On clay, he's a very physical player, and the way he played today was really difficult for me.  He took his chances at the right time, and that's it.  So things didn't turn out well for me.  I couldn't find solutions for that.   
 Q.  What did you think of the conditions today?  It was very windy out there.  
PIERRE-HUGUES HERBERT: It was definitely not the same conditions as the last two days, and it is true that these conditions make it harder to take any risk because the ball moves a lot.   
I served better on the other days because there was no wind.  So you have to make the decision of playing on the safe side, because the ball moves a lot.  And then when it doesn't work anyway, you say to yourself, Well, I should have done something else.  In any case, he was better at facing those conditions than I was today.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT