ROLEX PARIS MASTERS
October 31, 2017
Pierre-Hugues Herbert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








F. LOPEZ/P.H. Herbert
7-6, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please, in French.
Q. It was a difficult match today.  How did you feel on the court?
PIERRE-HUGUES HERBERT: Well, it's never easy to play Feliciano.  I didn't feel good on the court today from the start.  I was tense and I was not used to that court and I made mistakes that I didn't make last week.
So I started thinking too much and I didn't feel good.  And congratulations to him because he played better and better and didn't let me play my game.
Q. How were the conditions today?  The speed of the ball?
PIERRE-HUGUES HERBERT: It's difficult to say.  I thought it was pretty fast, but I was inefficient when I was trying to be aggressive.  So I would say the surface is fast, but it didn't help me today.  Anyway, the slice goes well on this surface.
Q. So what is the situation at the end of the year for your singles season?
PIERRE-HUGUES HERBERT: Globally, it's difficult to say.  I would need to think about it.  I wouldn't give myself an 8 nor a 7.  I think I deserve a 6 1/2 because I had some very good weeks.  6 1/2 out of 10 I would say.  It's not much.  And the 6 1/2 is generous.
Fortunately, I played well last week.  I think I deserve even less.
Q. What would you need right now to play better?  Maybe more energy?
PIERRE-HUGUES HERBERT: No.  I was full of energy today, but when I play against a player like Lopez, I am not efficient.  It's up to me to make some progress and be more competitive, more than today anyway.
Q. You were talking about being tense.  What was the reason for it?
PIERRE-HUGUES HERBERT: Well, here it's in Paris and we always want to do well.  And at the start I didn't play that well.  So it's supposed to be a positive tension because we went to do well, but when things go wrong, then we start losing confidence.
So, in fact, it didn't help me play better at all.
Q. A few words on Paul-Henri Mathieu, he lost his doubles with Benoit Paire today earlier.  What do you remember from him as a person, as a player?  And what would you say to him?
PIERRE-HUGUES HERBERT: What I remember is that we are both from the same region.  He was an example to me and it's thanks to him that I'm where I am today.
The most beautiful memory I have from him -- well, there are two of them, in fact, is when I was watching him play in Strasbourg in Davis Cup and I remember I was in the stands and I was sick, I had gastroenteritis, and I went to watch him on the Friday and then on the Sunday and he won the lost point for us to win.  And when I came out of there I was totally cured.  I felt good.  I had stars in my eyes.  It was wonderful.
And the second memory was when he came back after he was told he could never play tennis again and he came back.  So then I watched him on a regular basis and I saw him play against Isner on center court in the French Open.  It was an incredible match, fantastic match.
And this was great and he is one of the people in tennis that gave me the greatest feelings and emotions and I'm very sad he's stopped playing now.
Q. What would you say to him?
PIERRE-HUGUES HERBERT: I would tell him thank you for what you did for French tennis.  And I wish you now a good life, a normal life.  Because until now it was maybe not that normal.
Q. You played a beautiful shot between the legs in this match.  Is it just an anecdote or was it pleasing for you?
PIERRE-HUGUES HERBERT: Well, there was several good points.  Now my goal, of course, is not being on videos because I play shots between the legs.  It was an unusual shot, but I had to do this shot because I didn't play well before that and it's not a good sign when I get lobbed.
Anyway, the crowd here is incredible.  And I'm really sad today that I couldn't do better on the court today for them.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT