AEGON CHAMPIONSHIP
June 19, 2016
Pierre-Hugues Herbert
Nicolas Mahut
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








HERBERT-MAHUT/Guccione-Sa
6-3, 7-6
An interview with:
PIERRE-HUGUES HERBERT
and NICOLAS MAHUT
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Your thoughts on the match.
PIERRE-HUGUES HERBERT: I think we did a really good final.  We played well.  Played a solid game.  The opponents were quite tough to beat today.  They had a lot of matches, played a lot of matches, they had a lot of confidence coming from the quallies here.
They were playing well.  Yeah, we started well from the beginning.  We did a great first set.  We missed a little bit of our chances in the beginning of the second.  We kept it together and tried our best, and we are so happy to get through and win the title in the tiebreaker in the second.
Q. Why do you think the two of you have combined so well on almost pretty much every surface this year?
NICOLAS MAHUT: Well, that's true.  We won one hard court, one on clay, and now on grass.  It's a great combination of the way we play on the court and the way we behave together.  We just stick together even when we have to go through bad times.
We know each other pretty well, so I think it helps to have like tough moment during the match.  And also we have a lot of confidence now from last year, we won a lot of matches, and we know when it's really, really difficult during the match we are gonna find solution maybe to win.  And sometimes we lost like at the French Open, but most of the time, because we stick together we find a solution.
Q. And to win on grass about one week before The Championships, what's that's going to do for your confidence going into Wimbledon, both of you?
PIERRE-HUGUES HERBERT: I think we did the same thing last year and we lost in the third round of doubles.  But for sure to get some wins, to see that we can be good on grass, it's gonna help us for Wimbledon.
Now I think it's time to rest for the beginning of the week and prepare, because we are also playing singles there.  We have I think big goals for singles, too.
So, yeah, it's just good to have some good chemistry, and we are coming with confidence.  It doesn't make everything like we saw last year.
NICOLAS MAHUT: And it's different also because Wimbledon is best of five, so we really have to be ready physically to play singles, doubles there.  It's really not easy for singles guys to play doubles, but it's always better to win a trophy the week before.  Give us a lot of confidence.  Well, we will see in three weeks if we can win another one.
Q. Because you are so close to France, are you going to stay in London, go back and forth?  What are you going to do?
NICOLAS MAHUT: I go back now.  I mean, I take the train in one hour, I try to catch it, and I want to see my son and wife for two days.  I will come back on Wednesday morning.  Because I miss Father's Day today, and so tomorrow we will do something else with the family.
PIERRE-HUGUES HERBERT: I'm staying here.  I'm going to see Coldplay tonight so I have to hurry up.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT