STANFORD ST. JUDE CHAMPIONSHIP
June 7, 2007
Justin Leonard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  On a day like this, are you okay with that?   
 JUSTIN LEONARD:  Yeah, I feel pretty good about it.  Yeah, I knew it was supposed to be windy.  A little surprised at some of the pins we played to today.  We started on the back 9 and 10 through 16, I think they're all about the hardest putts you can put on the green.  I felt very good about everything.   
  
  Q.  John Daly was saying one of the hardest things was kind of gauging the wind, coming in one direction and then switching.  Was there a problem for you, as well?   
 JUSTIN LEONARD:  You know, we pretty much had the direction down, but it's hard to really control your distance.  That's really pretty important with the greens being the way they are, and the speeds.   
 You can't leave yourself above the hole, so it is hard to get the right yardage -- not the right yardage, but your distance control.   
  
  Q.  Justin, you played here a lot of times.  Has this been one of the most difficult conditions in terms of going out there and teeing it up?   
 JUSTIN LEONARD:  Absolutely.  You know, we played in some wind here over the years, but back when the greens were soft.  I don't remember -- I don't know what's leading but I don't remember, you know, even par being as good a round as it was today.   
  
  Q.  That said, are you happy with where you are?   
 JUSTIN LEONARD:  Yeah.  Yeah.  I played very solid.  Hit the ball nicely.  Doing a good job with my distance control, which, as I said, was one of the most difficult things of today and made a couple of putts.  It was a good day.   
  
  Q.  Justin, distance control is tough with the wind.  How about putting with the gusts?   
 JUSTIN LEONARD:  It does affect it on a few holes.  The greens are more exposed on the windy side.  Most of the time you get a little bit of protection, but like the 6th hole was pretty exposed.  The 9th hole is pretty exposed.  When the greens are as fast as they are, you do have to allow for that.   
  
  Q.  Justin, would it surprise you to see somebody come out in the afternoon and really put up a low number because these conditions are supposed to stick around?   
 JUSTIN LEONARD:  It would surprise me a little bit but, you know, the golf course is in such good shape.  If you're reading the greens correctly and on the right side of the hole, you can certainly make some birdies.   
  
  Q.  Good luck tomorrow.   
 JUSTIN LEONARD:  Okay.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT