WGC AMERICAN EXPRESS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 1, 2004
Justin Leonard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Justin, good playing.  Currently in 2nd place at 8-under par, still some players out on the golf course.  Two good days of golf.  Maybe just talk about the first couple of days here in Ireland at the American Express Championships.
JUSTIN LEONARD:  It's been pretty good.  The golf course is -- I can't notice any changes that have been made.  It's a lot softer than I remember it, but I feel pretty good about my game.  I played well a couple of weeks ago in San Antonio.  I think this is kind of a continuation of that.  I'm just glad to be in good position going into the weekend and I'm looking forward to the next couple of days.
Q.  People say these greens are basically as pure as you get on Tour.  I wonder how much of a factor that is in terms of getting some putts to go in.
JUSTIN LEONARD:  It's pretty easy to make putts.  The greens are pretty well divided with some slopes and tiers here and there, so you've got to hit some good iron shots, otherwise you could have some long putts.  But yeah, as far as just how the ball rolls, I don't think we've played anything better this year.
Q.  How would you rate Ernie's 64 compared with your score of 68?
JUSTIN LEONARD:  Well, I played pretty darn good, and I probably could have trimmed a couple shots off, but 64 today, in the wind that we played in this afternoon, you know, it's pretty remarkable.
Q.  Without having some research, which is dangerous, but I don't think you've missed the Tour Championship probably ever or just once maybe?
JUSTIN LEONARD:  Yeah, since 95.
Q.  That's a pretty good streak.  If you knew that, that means --
JUSTIN LEONARD:  I'm well aware.  I don't know exactly where I am or how much I'm behind.  I don't want to know how much I'm behind.  I know it's about 40th.  Yeah, that's a real motivation for me right now.  You know, I'm playing next week in Vegas and then Tampa.  I figure if I can't get it done between these three tournaments, I don't deserve to play, but I'd sure like to be there, and that's my motivation right now.
Q.  You wouldn't consider Disney for any reason?
JUSTIN LEONARD:  No, I wouldn't.  I mean, I've kind of had this plan for a month or so.  You know, if I can't play well enough to get it done in these tournaments, then I shouldn't be there.
Q.  Do you feel like things are going in a direction enough that you'll get it done?
JUSTIN LEONARD:  Yeah, I feel like I can.  If I continue to kind of build on the way I hit the ball in San Antonio and the way I've played so far this week, I feel like I can move up.  You know, that's the way to get there is to win a golf tournament.  You know, I feel like my game is to where -- if it's not this week, then hopefully I'll give myself a chance next week, but I feel like I'm playing well enough to win.
Q.  (Inaudible).
JUSTIN LEONARD:  I had a bad experience last year sitting behind a post, and we left after about three minutes into the second quarter.  I think you know why.  We went to the car show.  We had more fun there than at the game.  I'll try and watch it if I can.
Q.  You said something about last year.  I guess you didn't go to the other five?
JUSTIN LEONARD:  I've seen a few.  I don't know how many.  I've been to plenty of Texas OU game.  Until we get the streak turned around in our favor, I'd rather go to Vegas.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Thanks, Justin.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT