FBR OPEN
January 31, 2004
Justin Leonard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Justin, for joining us today for a few minutes here in the media center.  Interesting round and a wonderful finish.  Why don't you make a couple comments on that finish. 

JUSTIN LEONARD:  It was a lot of fun, birdieing the last six holes.  I was actually looking pretty good to catch my flight tomorrow, doing myself a service there, but not necessarily in great shape for the event, and I got it rolling, made a couple nice putts at 13 and 14 and then was able to make a few more.  It was nice to be back in the golf tournament.  I'm not worried about missing that flight.


Q.  What time was the flight?

JUSTIN LEONARD:  4:15.


Q.  You've had a couple of second places here.  Is there something in particular about this course that really works well for you?

JUSTIN LEONARD:  I don't know if it's necessarily the golf course.  I think that usually -- obviously this is early in the year so I come in pretty fresh, and I've also had a couple weeks to work on my game, to play competitively.  You know, I enjoy playing the golf course.  It rewards you for hitting the ball in play.  It also rewards the longer hitters, but I think that I've just happened to play well here, and I'm hitting the ball a distance now where you can compete on a golf course like this.


Q.  I think you're one over for the day going into 13, correct me if I'm wrong, did you think at that point, if I don't do it now I have no shot to win this tournament?

JUSTIN LEONARD:  I wasn't so worried about winning the tournament at that point.  I just wanted to make a few birdies to make the round not so disappointing, and I guess I achieved that goal.


Q.  Looking at all the birdies that the leaders have posted into the finishing stretch, is this the kind of course where tomorrow it can come down to the last four holes and guys can really go after something and turn it around?

JUSTIN LEONARD:  Yeah, you can definitely -- 13, 15, 17, you can make eagle.  You know, that provides for an exciting finish in itself.  You've also got some trouble around those holes, as well.  You know, anything can really happen on the back nine.  It's a matter of getting yourself in position and then hopefully hitting the right shots at the right time.


Q.  When did you make that flight arrangement, the 4:15 flight, out of curiosity?

JUSTIN LEONARD:  When?  Yesterday.  Just in hopes.

JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Can we go through the six birdies and the bogey.

JUSTIN LEONARD:  Yeah.  12, I hit it in the left hazard, which is probably not happening this week.  I made a great up-and-down, made a great putt there for bogey.

13, hit a 4-wood in the right bunker, hit it out to five feet.

14, hit a 6-iron to about 12 feet.

15, hit a 3-iron about 40 feet, two-putted.

16, hit an 8-iron about 12 feet.

17, drove it just short of the green, chipped to about six feet.

Then 18, hit a wedge to about three feet.


Q.  This is shaping up to be a great battle.  There's all kinds of guys within three or four shots of the lead, guys that have won majors, fan favorites.  What do you expect the atmosphere to be out here tomorrow afternoon?

JUSTIN LEONARD:  Pretty much like today, even more so.  It's hard to imagine, but there's a lot of electricity out there, and the fans get into it here.  You have 100,000 people getting into it, that creates a lot of energy.

JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thanks, Justin.



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT