WGC WORLD CUP
November 15, 2003
Jim Furyk
Justin Leonard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  You we would like to welcome the USA team here in the media center.  Thank you for joining us a few minutes here.  Both of you make a few comments about each of your rounds today and we'll go into questions.

JIM FURYK:  We got off to a relatively decent start.  We were 3-under through 6, actually in pretty decent shape and playing well and hitting good shots, and kind of fizzled out.  Didn't make a birdie or 7 or 8 or 9, and made a bogey on 10.  Just kind of from there I think it was a lot of pressing, trying a little too hard, trying to make things happen, at least it was in my case. 

Justin played pretty solid down the stretch and didn't have some putts go in.  That's part of it.  We have one more round left.  We have to get ready for tomorrow and play a good one.

JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Justin?

JUSTIN LEONARD:  We never really got any momentum.  I think through six holes we were in pretty good shape, and not birdeying 7, the par  5.  We seemed to kind of stall out a little bit after that, and then had a chance for a pretty strong finish.  We just didn't quite make enough putts.  Those guys played really well today.  I don't think our best ball would have beat either of their individual scores.  Watching them make putts all day long probably was a little more frustrating to us than it normally would be.


Q.   Talk about how the course played today.  A lot of people went low.  Was it as vulnerable as it's been all week?  Was it the format, the weather?

JIM FURYK:  I think it's the exact opposite.  We were probably the fifth best score at 4-under in this format.  That's terrible.  Those are terrible scores, I think.  If it were vulnerable you would see 5 teams at 5 under, where 30-under par was winning the golf tournament.  One team in double digits and we're tied at second at 7.  I think the scores are extremely high.  I think this golf course is anything but vulnerable.


Q.   Does that make tomorrow's format, even though you're trailing by 7 shots, does that make you realize or do you realize it's a lot easier to make up those 7 shots under the alternate shot format with one team ahead?

JUSTIN LEONARD:  It's never easy making up 7 shots.  It's possible in alternate shot format.

JIM FURYK:  It would be impossible in four-ball.

JUSTIN LEONARD:  If we can go out and get in a rhythm, which was a hard part to do in foursomes, and make some putts early, then who knows, but I think we just want to come out and focus on our play and enjoy the round like we've enjoyed the last three rounds.  Neither of us have played great but we haven't played poorly.  It's just a matter of hopefully things will kind of fall into place and if we get rolling, see what happens.


Q.   Trying to get into the final group tomorrow, did it become a goal down the stretch?

JIM FURYK:  It would have been nice to birdie the last hole there.  I didn't watch the board all that much.  I saw it coming in on 17 and 18, knowing if we birdied the last hole it would get us into the final group.  That would be nice.  It's nice to keep an eye on the guys ahead of you.  Ultimately it doesn't matter because we have to post a really good number tomorrow.  Either way, I think Justin and I have been around enough, we're not going to worry about what they're doing tomorrow.  There is a task at hand for us.  It's a difficult format and we have to go out and do our job.


Q.   15, what did you hit out of there?  What was the yardage?

JUSTIN LEONARD:  143 and it was a 9-iron.


Q.   The birdies on 2, 4 and 6, can you run through those real quick?

JIM FURYK:  I made birdie on 2.  It was about a 3-foot putt, I would think.  Hit a driver and 3-wood short left and pitch shot to about three feet.

Justin birdied 4.

JUSTIN LEONARD:  3-wood, 6-iron, about 15 feet.

JIM FURYK:  6, I hit driver, 7-iron to about, I would say, six feet.


Q.   You said tomorrow you probably won't worry about what the other group is doing.  Did you fall into that today?  As hot as they got, did you have a feeling they were running away?

JIM FURYK:  They were there and you could see what happened.  Ultimately you have to focus on what you're doing.  It may become frustrating, the fact that they played very well.  They knocked in some putts.  They got momentum going and kept going.  It's frustrating when you're trying to get that started and you can't.  Any time we hit a good shot, we missed a putt.  We hit a couple of bad shots here and there.  Again, we both played out here for quite a while.  I think that's overplayed as far as if you're playing with a guy that's playing bad or playing well, they have totally different style of games than us.  Just go out there and play your best.  We all play our own game in this format.  I'm playing my own ball and Justin is playing his ball.  I may watch what club selection he makes and vice versa, but we're going out there and playing.


Q.   You talked about getting momentum going.  Was that the key for them or was there anything about their games today that enabled them to shoot that score?

JIM FURYK:  They just played well.

JUSTIN LEONARD:  They both played real solid.  They were both in the hole most of the day.  They had a lot of -- both of them putting and birdies and they did what you're supposed to do in four-ball, that's give yourself two chances and they made some good putts.

JIM FURYK:  They made a bunch of birdies out there today and that's what you want to do.  We didn't make a bunch of birdies.

JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thanks, guys. 


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT