BELL CANADIAN OPEN
September 8, 2002
Justin Leonard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







JOAN vT ALEXANDER:   Thanks for spending a few minutes.  Probably not the way you wanted it to end, but we appreciate you coming in for a few minutes.
JUSTIN LEONARD:   Sure.

Q.  Take us through the last couple of holes?
JUSTIN LEONARD:   17, I think at the time I was one shot back or two shots back  -- one shot back.  Trying to hit a 6-iron about 15, 20 feet left of the hole and just pushed it in the front right bunker.  Hit a great bunker shot to about 12 feet and made that putt. 
Hit a good tee shot on 18 and had 174  -- felt like there may have been just a touch of breeze in, and felt like it was a good 6-iron and I wanted to hit an aggressive shot, because I felt like I needed to make a birdie, and whether it was too much club or I was just  -- a little too much adrenaline, I hit it over the green.  I took a drop.  Didn't hit a great chip shot to about ten feet and kind of misread the putt. 
Then the playoff, hit a decent tee shot, left edge of the green.  Hit a good putt, but from 40 feet.  John poured his in, and here we are.

Q.  Looking in retrospect, looking at the bogey on 18, at the time when you thought you were out of the tournament, does it sting more now knowing that if you got a par on the 18th, you would have won the tournament, as opposed to leaving you in second at the time?
JUSTIN LEONARD:   Yeah, but I'm not going to play 18 to make par when I'm down by one stroke.  I'm not out here to cash checks.  Not when I get in position like I was in today.  Neal obviously has been playing well all week, hitting the ball well.  You don't expect the guy to make bogey or double-bogey on 18.  You know, 3 was the only score in my mind on 18.
Looking back, sure.  But you know what, it doesn't do any good.  We all would be billionaires if we could do that.

Q.  (Inaudible.)
JUSTIN LEONARD:   A little bit.  I was probably a little more prepared for this than I was at Carnoustie because that was such a shock.  But, yeah, certainly it catches you off-guard.  I'm trying to think about getting the clothes packed up, getting to the airport and next thing you know, we're on a cart back to the 18th tee.  But I've been there before, so I kind of knew what  to do.

Q.  What are you thinking when you're watching Neal play 18?
JUSTIN LEONARD:   Not much.  You obviously feel bad.  Nobody likes to finish that like that, and nobody wants to see a player finish like that.  So regardless of the outcome, it's still something you don't like to see.  





End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT