THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT
May 25, 2002
Justin Leonard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  You've been here a lot, near the lead or very close to it.  As you get ready to go into tomorrow what's the mindset and what do you want to do and what needs to happen?
JUSTIN LEONARD:  I don't know yet.  Today is still right there on the tip of my brain.  Obviously at this point I'm disappointed with the way I played today.  And I just kind of need to regroup a little bit.  Come out and hopefully get off to a little better start tomorrow.  And just a lot of it depends on the conditions.  Today the conditions are pretty tough, so there's some great rounds early in the day, but it got a little tough as the day went on.  And so I just have to wait and see what it's giving me tomorrow.

Q.  (Inaudible.)
JUSTIN LEONARD:  Why, I don't know.  It was just a combination of everything.  I didn't do anything real poorly, just nothing really well.  So I have a lot to work on.

Q.  Did the wind make it difficult for you to pick yardages, particularly coming in?
JUSTIN LEONARD:  Yeah, it was difficult.  Especially the last nine or 10 holes.  And some guys were making birdies late in the day as well though. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
JUSTIN LEONARD:  It made it fun to play with him.  The only way it could have been better is if we both played better.  But it was a lot of fun out there.  We were really pulling for each other and I'm sure we both are disappointed.  At the same time it was a lot of fun and hopefully we will get to do it again, be in the last group and maybe next time it will be in a Sunday. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
JUSTIN LEONARD:  I'm a little too bitter now to find the satisfaction in it.  But that's the thing I have to remember I'm still in the golf tournament.  Now I need to make a couple shots up.  But I am still in the golf tournament.  With a good start tomorrow I'll be playing probably the group in front of the last group.  So maybe I can put a little pressure on those guys from the beginning and just see what happens. 

Q.  This could be one of those shoot-out type Sunday situations.  If today is any indication.  It would be wide open between a half a dozen guys tomorrow. 
JUSTIN LEONARD:  Yeah, it's kind of fun stuff.  There's a bunch of guys at eight and nine under and a couple of those guys could get hot and it could, I think anybody really within four shots, four to five shots has got a chance. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
JUSTIN LEONARD:  It makes the golf course more difficult.  You need to play a little smarter out there.  I'm all for that. 

Q.  What happened on the way in?  You made two bogeys. 
JUSTIN LEONARD:  13 and 15.  13 I missed the green right and that's a place you don't want to miss it.  And didn't get it up-and-down.  And 15 I was going for the green and hit a tree on the right.  I chipped around for awhile. 

Q.  I know it's not the round you wanted, but certainly well placed going into Sunday. 
JUSTIN LEONARD:  Yeah, I mean I'm only two shots from the lead.  Playing in the next to last group.  In pretty good shape.  But obviously from where I started the day off I'm a little disappointed.  I got a little work to do on my game this afternoon to get it back to where I was the first two days.

Q.  It seemed like you, when you struggled it was to make par.  You had some great pars out there. 
JUSTIN LEONARD:  I made a couple nice up-and-downs in the middle of my round and I got a couple, I don't know if they were bad bounces, obviously they were spots I should not have played it into.  But places where I really didn't have a chance.  And that's disappointing as well.  So and then pretty decent chances the last three holes and not able to make any of those.  So I left a little bit out there today and but I didn't play very well.  So if I would have hit it better, you think I would be more disappointed.  So from -- the thing have I to remember is that I still have got tomorrow and I'm only two shots back so I still got a chance.

Q.  Even par round, what do you feel like you didn't do today that you wanted to do?
JUSTIN LEONARD:  I didn't really capitalize, I don't think, really on the last five holes in particular.  Four holes I had good birdie chances and then 15, sitting in the middle of the fairway, able to reach the green and making bogey there.  So I felt like I really gave away at least three shots in those last five holes.  And that's the most disappointing thing. 

Q.  When you think about it tonight do you think about a great opportunity because you didn't play your best golf you end the day only two shots out of the lead?
JUSTIN LEONARD:  I'll need to get there.  I'm not there right now.  I'm still pretty bitter.  But after I hit some balls, cool off a little bit, that's where I'll get my mindset to by the end of tonight.

Q.  Just talk about going into Sunday.  Being in the position everybody wants to be in on Sunday having a chance to win the tournament?
JUSTIN LEONARD:  That's one of the goals at the start of the week.  And it's always fun to be in the middle of it.  Today was a lot of fun playing with Harrison.  Neither of us played the way we wanted to.  But still in the middle of it going into the last round.  And that's what everybody came here wants to do.   So it will be fun tomorrow. 

Q.  Harrison, how about your buddy, I mean he was in this position a couple years ago, he had a rough day, he didn't have that rough a day today but he didn't do what he wanted to do.  What do you say to him after that?
JUSTIN LEONARD:  Oh, you know, he's been struggling in the last couple months.  So I think the last Thursday and Friday were big, big confidence boosters for him.  So today obviously he leaves here disappointed.  But at the same time he didn't have the kind of round he had here and talked about yesterday that he had two or three years ago.  So if he can come back and shoot a great round tomorrow he'll have a chance to win this tournament.  So I feel for Harrison, but I know right where he's been and he's going to go home feeling all right about today. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT