THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT
May 24, 2002
Justin Leonard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Thank you Justin for joining us.  A great round today, 7-under par 65.  Great position going in the weekend.  Why don't you make a couple comments on the round and we'll go to some questions.
JUSTIN LEONARD:  Just a pretty solid day overall, didn't do anything too spectacular.  Just a solid day, I made some good putts and on 15 and 16 to pick up three strokes.  With an eagle at 15 and hit it a foot on 16.  It was kind of a nice way to end the day. 
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Questions. 
Q.  You played with Harrison in this position before?
JUSTIN LEONARD:  No.  I think that the only time we played together was when we got paired the first two days at -- or the first three rounds at Pebble Beach.  But other than that, I don't think we have played together.  We may have at some point. 

Q.  This year or last year?
JUSTIN LEONARD:  No, three or four years ago.  I'm not sure. 

Q.  You missed Pebble this year?
JUSTIN LEONARD:  Do what?   Did I miss Pebble this year?  Yeah, I was not able to play. 

Q.  Do you look forward to that, not playing Pebble, I mean playing?
JUSTIN LEONARD:  Pebble? 

Q.  Playing with Harrison tomorrow?
JUSTIN LEONARD:  I do.  Yeah.  I saw he was playing I guess about an hour ahead of me and I was able to see how well he was playing.  And until I made the eagle at 15, I wasn't thinking too much about it.  But after that I thought it would be a lot of fun to play with him tomorrow whether it's in the last group, whatever.  And so I guess Stewart Cink could mess that up for us. 

Q.  He just went down?
JUSTIN LEONARD:  He did.  Okay.  So well, it will be a lot of fun then. 

Q.  He kind of suggested that you guys inspire or motivate each other even during the course of a round.  He said he wouldn't be surprised if you see his name at the top it might get you excited or fire you up.
JUSTIN LEONARD:  Sure.  It's pretty rare when we actually play well in the same week.  So usually if he is playing well, I'm not and vice versa.  So it's nice to both play well and, yeah, I mean we're going to be pulling for each other tomorrow.  And at the same time we can't get too friendly out there and kind of forget what we're trying to do. 

Q.  He was in here earlier talking about how he's spent thousands of dollars trying to get over that round with Tiger here two years ago.  And he said that you were one of the people that tried to reach out with him during that period of time and talk him out of it.  I wonder, how did that work?  And do you also, when you're not real happy about things with your game, do you go to him or are you guys that close?
JUSTIN LEONARD:  Yeah, we are that close.  I mean he's given me a couple putting lessons here and there.  We're not afraid to bounce ideas off each other.  Even if they're stupid.  Because we know we get an honest answer from each other.  So as far as that round whenever that was, we all have stuff like that happen to all of us.  I did it in the third round at THE PLAYERS Championship, five or six years ago.  And I think I won two years later.  So we all have to learn to get over those things and he's more than over it now, though I'm sure. 

Q.  How much did you play together in college?
JUSTIN LEONARD:  Well, we are on the same team. 

Q.  All four years?
JUSTIN LEONARD:  Yes.  We were roommates our freshman year. 

Q.  He said that you guys were close but you want to beat each other's brains out, I think is the words he used so will tomorrow be that kind of cut-throat?
JUSTIN LEONARD:  No.  Tomorrow won't be.  Hopefully we're in the same position on Sunday playing with each other and then it will get a little tougher.  But we do, we want to beat each others brains because we have been playing together so long.  But at the same time, whoever knocks the other one down they're going to pick him up.  Did you see him off and say great playing?  So but again, we're just glad tomorrow's a third round.  It's not the fourth round. 

Q.  Do you look for his name on the leaderboard most days?
JUSTIN LEONARD:  Yeah.  Absolutely.  I'm, you know, there, is a few guys that if I check the computer or the newspaper that I look for, and Harrison is one of those.

Q.  Is Jack one of those?
JUSTIN LEONARD:  Well, he doesn't play a whole lot any more, but, yeah, it's good, great to see the way he's played the last two days.  And I know he's, I know for him it beats sitting around the locker room and the TV trailer for two days.

Q.  You said Harrison said there was a time when you kind of drifted apart as friends.  Was that because of the competitive nature between you two or was it when he decided not to pursue a professional career for awhile there and then what brought you back together?
JUSTIN LEONARD:  Well, it was really I got out of, I graduated a year earlier and so he's busy with college, I was trying to figure out what was going on out here and then he decided not to play golf after school.  So, yeah, there was a period for two or three years there where we would see each other very sporadically and talk even less.  So but without, there was no intent there.  Just we happened to be going two different directions and we were both pretty involved in what we were doing. 

Q.  Once he got on tour, you just got kind of caught up?
JUSTIN LEONARD:  Yeah, it was like riding a bike. 

Q.  You were close at Colonial, did you feel like you were playing well coming in from last week?  Did you make a change or what's the difference between this week and last week?
JUSTIN LEONARD:  I didn't make any changes, I don't know what the difference is, I think part of it -- after playing at home for two weeks, I got pretty tired late in the week.  Just from, it wasn't friends or this and that, but playing at home, I try to, I do the things I normally do during a tournament and then when I get home I try to do the things I normally do when I'm at home and it was probably a little too much.  And after a couple weeks of that I was actually a little tired towards the end of the week.  And but it is my on fault for doing that and hopefully I'll learn from that next year.  Butch is here, he watched me hit some balls on Wednesday morning and said a couple things that seemed to make sense.  All pretty minor.  And so I think it's partly a continuation and I'm kind of improving from what I've been doing the last couple week. 

Q.  Are you talking about exercise or social functions or what?
JUSTIN LEONARD:  No, not really.  Just it's different.  Like this week I'll go back to the hotel, figure out what to do for dinner, then it's pretty much done.  Well, when you go home, after around at Colonial, there is mail there, I'll have a few messages, I want to call a couple of my buddies, this and that.  And it just, all of a sudden it's 10:30 I'm going, wait a second, and my wife was the same way.  It's just that's there are trade-offs and playing close to home like that.  And it's great, but when Sunday at Colonial was over I'm pretty relieved. 
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Could we go through the round, Justin.
JUSTIN LEONARD:  Sure.  Birdied three, hit a sand wedge three feet. 
Birdied five, laid up and hit a sand wedge about 15 feet. 
Birdied 8, hit it on the right fringe and kind of bellied a sand wedge from about 12 feet.  Made it. 
Birdied 11.  Hit a 9-iron about 15 feet.  And then eagled 15.  Hit a 3-wood about eight feet.  
And birdied 16, hit a 5-iron about a foot and a half. 

Q.  Justin, has the run you're getting on the fairways helped you this week?
JUSTIN LEONARD:  Yeah.  I'm sure it's helped almost everybody, unless you're not hitting it in the fairway.  I like to see this place get fast because the fairways get narrower.  When it's soft, you get so much room to drive it, I think it brings a lot of guys into the tournament.  So it's not going to get fast and I can't worry about that.  I just have to go out and play it the way it is. 

Q.  What was it like when you won your amateur?
JUSTIN LEONARD:  It was rock hard in the week.  And then about the second or third match we got rain.  We got rained out one day.  And it softened up and then it started to get firm again, the last couple matches. 

Q.  Verplank said out there earlier that at this point no matter what happens this weekend with the weather, the guys that are playing well they're going to keep playing well.  No matter what happens this weekend, do you feel good about your chances?  The way you're playing, whether it's wet out there or whether it's dry?
JUSTIN LEONARD:  Yeah.  There are more important things to worry about than the weather.  I just have to go out and play.  If it's pouring down rain tomorrow, you know, I'll play off it and try to do the same things I did today and I would do it if was sunny out.  The weather is not going to change my approach too much. 
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Couple more questions.
Q.  Does it seem like this course is playing noticeably shorter at all than say two or three years ago?
JUSTIN LEONARD:  Yeah, because the balls aren't backing up.

Q.  But even factor that in, does it still seem like it's  quite the monster it used to be, I mean length-wise?
JUSTIN LEONARD:  I don't know.  I think -- I mean, yeah, it's playing a little bit shorter and I'm sure it's because of the balls and the drivers.  But even that being said, 10-under is leading this golf tournament with par  72, four pretty reachable par-5s.  I would say this golf course is holding up just fine.  5- or 6-under is in about third or fourth or fifth place.  There's nothing wrong with this place. 
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Thanks, Justin.
JUSTIN LEONARD:  Okay.  Thanks. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT