THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY DYNEGY
November 2, 2001
Justin Leonard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JUSTIN LEONARD:  Hit a good drive, pulled a 3-iron front left bunker.  Pretty simple bunker shot.  Had a good line and fortunately it went in.  
 
Q.  How much does that jump-start you there?
 
JUSTIN LEONARD:  It's a big help.  That hole was playing very easy today.  I think one of the marshals told us walking off the green that we were the fifth group in a row to make an eagle there.  So it's a hole you expect to make 4 at and 3 is just kind of a bonus. 
 
Q.  (Inaudible)?
 
JUSTIN LEONARD:  I feel like I am in good shape.  Playing two solid rounds then shooting  -- played  -- scored a little better today than I did yesterday.  I didn't hit it perfect out there, but in the spots where I didn't, I kind of got it around and made a couple of nice saves and finished off the day nicely birdieing 18.  
 
Q.  (Inaudible)?
 
JUSTIN LEONARD:    Don't get me wrong, I am very pleased with the way I hit the ball, but I didn't hit it perfectly out there and I missed some fairways and fortunately I was in some spots where I could play from.  But I hit a lot of good shots and better than I have hit it certainly since the Texas Open and so that's really encouraging and it all feels pretty simple right now. 
 
Q.  Overall how do you assess your year?  (Inaudible)
 
JUSTIN LEONARD:  To borrow a term from other sports, it was almost kind of a rebuilding year.  Certainly the first half with the swing changes, things like that.  I think that the last three or four months I have seen those changes start to pay off.  I am probably swinging as well now as I have throughout the entire year and I am a little disappointed the year is coming to an end.  It's a lot of practice balls and I am ready for the year to be over.  But you know, it's nice to finish off the year on a good note and to continue to play like this the next two days, I will be able to do some stuff. 
 
Q.  (Inaudible)?
 
JUSTIN LEONARD:  Looking back, if you just look at numbers, statistics from the last six years or whatever, it looked disappointing but with the things  -- the changes that I have made with my game and  -- I think it has been a pretty good year, and -- but I certainly expect better results next year because I should be that much more comfortable. 
 
Q.  What is your schedule?
 
JUSTIN LEONARD:  I am not playing any tournaments.  I have a couple of corporate outings.  Just some fun golf.  A little bit of equipment testing, things like that, but just that, some relaxing. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT