KEMPER INSURANCE OPEN
June 3, 2000
Justin Leonard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JUSTIN LEONARD: In a good position. A little disappointed with the way I played today.
You know, for driving the ball well and hitting my irons fairly well, and I felt like I
hit some good putts, especially early in the round. And couldn't seem to make anything.
You know that needs to change for me tomorrow in order to have a chance to win. But, you
know, I had some -- a couple of stumbles there on 12 and 13 and was able to come back with
birdies at 14 and 16, trying to right the ship a little bit. At least be within good
striking distance going into Sunday, which was basically my goal at the beginning of the
week. 

Q. Would you know what to do with yourself if you were leading a tournament going into
the final round? 

JUSTIN LEONARD: Yeah, but I think it's been a while. I think in '96 at the Buick, I
think I may have been tied or maybe one stroke ahead going into the last round. But it has
been a while. 

Q. There were a lot of distractions between the gallery, deer, small children running
down fairways. Does that in any way -- it culminated at 18 when you had to back off that
putt. Did that contribute at all to the way you were playing today? 

JUSTIN LEONARD: No. Today was all me. The deer, the little girl running down the hill,
those things are fun. There's a lot of people out here, it's a beautiful day, it's late in
the day. There's going to be people making noise and some people that maybe forget there's
a tournament going on sometimes. But it's such a small number of people, there's no point
in -- you know, just something you deal with. And you don't just deal with it here, you
deal with it everywhere. You know, I'd rather deal with that late on Saturday and late on
Sunday than go out first thing in the morning and not have anybody out there. 

Q. Last Thursday and Friday, both times you talked about how early in the round, things
that happened kind of let you know whether it was an attacking type of rounds and on
Friday you said it was more of a defensive type of round. What sort of feeling did you get
today? 

JUSTIN LEONARD: I hit some good shots the first few holes. Other than a tee shot at 3,
you know, I drove the ball really well which I felt like I struggled with a little bit
yesterday. And, you know, I just -- I wasn't able to make the putts today. You know I made
a long one there at 11. You know all these good putts, I felt like I hit and then 11 I've
got this 40-footer with three different breaks and that's the one I make. Just proves this
is a silly game we're playing. Sometimes you just have to laugh about it. But, you know
hopefully I can get some good thoughts going into tomorrow and do a little work this
afternoon, and come out and make a few putts tomorrow. 

Q. 13, the chip, what happened there?

JUSTIN LEONARD: I just laid the sod over it. I don't even -- from that distance, I
don't even have a yardage. But just try to basically hit, you know kind of a 30 or 40 yard
-- almost a flop shot. Had the face wide open, the fairways -- it's bentgrass so it's a
little soft. I hit behind the ball and just laid the sod right over it. 

Q. When is the last time you did that? 

JUSTIN LEONARD: I do it in practice every now and then. There's a shot where -- one way
is to hit it short and again the fairways, it's pretty soft. So I'd have to hit it pretty
hard. I thought the greens are fairly soft, just try to land the ball on top of the hill.
You know, it's a shot that I don't try all that often and I'll probably try it even less.
(Laughter.)

Q. Is that one of those classic decisions between lofting it and hitting it lower and
it looked like there was a mound, kind of tough to play a lower shot through?

JUSTIN LEONARD: Just knowing it was fairly soft. If I knew it was firm up front I would
have been more likely to play that shot. But I didn't really think much about it, knowing
that the fairways are somewhat soft. You know I wasn't trying to hole it. I was trying to
hit it knowing that it would go past the hole. But I just, you know, hit a very, very bad
golf shot.

Q. Justin, can you talk about different things that you have to work on maybe for
tomorrow? Is there any specific, one thing that you think would make the difference for
you tomorrow?

JUSTIN LEONARD: You know, I could hit the ball the way I hit today and drive it, I'd be
fine. I need to make some more putts. I felt like I hit a lot of good putts today. Maybe
it's just a matter of seeing some balls go in tonight and getting a little bit of
confidence back. But definitely the thing I need to do tomorrow, especially the way the
leaderboard is shaping up and it's bunched up right there at the top, you know, whoever
wins this tournament is going to play a really good round of golf tomorrow and make a lot
of birdies.

Q. Have you ever seen two deer on a green before and what happens if one of them
decides to eat the golf ball or move it?

JUSTIN LEONARD: Call a rules official. Pebble Beach, it's strange to play a round
without seeing deers.

Q. What green were they on? 

JUSTIN LEONARD: The 11th. The group in front of us was just walking up on the green and
there was a deer that kind of got trapped on the green and the marshals escorted him or
her off. 

Q. Didn't get in your line, though, right?

JUSTIN LEONARD: No. I don't think so. You know, I made that putt, so it probably did.
Probably had a hoofprint. I think it was more in the front of the green. I don't know. 

Q. What's your reaction to Mark James' book? 

JUSTIN LEONARD: I'm not going to have a reaction. (Laughter.) I'm not going to read it.
I'm not going to talk about it. All I know, he's written a book. I doubt it's very
flattering about me or our Ryder Cup team. I've got a lot of good stuff. I'm reading
fountain head right why would I want to read a Mark James book. Until it becomes a
classic. If it becomes a classic, I might read it. 

Q. What would make it a classic. 

JUSTIN LEONARD: I don't know. You tell me. You're a writer. 

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT