KEMPER INSURANCE OPEN
June 2, 2000
Justin Leonard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JUSTIN LEONARD: Didn't play quite as well today as I did yesterday. Missed some tee
shots through the front -- well, back nine, which is my front side. And then played a
little better on my second nine, but, you know, I think I may have gotten into a -- gotten
a feel for what was going on out there and I'll just go work on it this afternoon. But
it's nice to be up near the lead. I really don't think I'll be leading by the end of the
day, but, you know, certainly in good position going into tomorrow and Sunday. 

Q. What is it you're going to work on? 

JUSTIN LEONARD: Well, just I missed some tee shots out there, and I think that my
rhythm just didn't seem to be very good. I think I was getting away from the ball a little
quick, and that just kind of through everything off; so timing didn't feel like it was
quite there. And usually that's because my takeaway is too fast. Just a little anxious, I
guess. So I felt like I smoothed it out a little bit during the last four or five holes.
Hit some really good shots. You know, didn't have a great putting round today, either, but
made a couple putts coming in. So hopefully I can build on those things and get ready for
tomorrow.

Q. Strictly from a weather standpoint, are you grateful that you were able to play
morning and early afternoon as opposed to maybe 95 degrees maybe later on today? 

JUSTIN LEONARD: Well -- (Laughter.)

Q. Not that it made that much of a difference?

JUSTIN LEONARD: I don't know how big of an advantage it is but it's pretty warm out
there. You can see that my shirt (indicating wet), even when I was hitting balls at 7:00
this morning. Certainly throughout -- it's cooler this morning than it will be this
afternoon. But, you know, I don't know how big an advantage that might be. Just looking
forward to the weather tomorrow, which I heard is supposed to be much cooler. 

Q. Were the conditions perceptibly different this morning and yesterday other than
obviously the heat? 

JUSTIN LEONARD: You know, usually the greens feel softer in the morning, and we noticed
the balls releasing a little bit more today, this morning. You know, I didn't really think
they were any softer. The golf course I thought played pretty similarly. You know, there
may be a bit more wind this afternoon, but, you know, I didn't -- I thought the pin
placements were, you know, equally as difficult. So not a real big change in how the golf
course is playing today. 

Q. I hope I'm not repeating the question, 10-under has won the last three years. You're
already close to that. Do you think it's going to take something much lower this year or
is that still the ballpark? 

JUSTIN LEONARD: If the conditions stay the same -- I mean, without wind, the score will
be below 10-under, I would think. I'm close, to a lot of guys at 6, 7, 8( -under). So I
would imagine unless we get some pretty good wind, it will go below this week.

Q. There's some tournaments, like the Masters where very often you see a round of
10-under, it just sort of rotates there. And that's happened here a couple of times. Is
there any reason why a field bunches up at a number and can't get much lower?

JUSTIN LEONARD: Hard to say. I mean, you know, certain times when guys are able to
separate themselves and others when you're not able to. So I don't think it really has
anything to do with the golf course or anything. I know if you get to missing shots, just
by a little bit here, you can pay a big penalty and maybe that's part of the reason. I'm
sure that's part of the reason why the winning score has been fairly high at 10-under. So
we'll just have to see what the weather is like this weekend.

Q. You waited for the green to clear at 6 before taking your second shot. It looked as
if you might be going for the green and decided to lay-up. What was your thought process
there?

JUSTIN LEONARD: I was hoping nobody would ask this. (Smiles). You know, it's a pretty
difficult shot. I had 201 to the front, which doesn't sound like much, and 228 to the
hole. I was trying to decide whether I would be better off, because it's such a difficult
green to hit from back there but I felt I could get it right of the green fairly easily
and -- not thinking that I would have a very good chip shot at it. And also, I was kind of
between clubs. You know, at one point we were downwind. We should have been into the wind.
And just there were too many ifs in there, and that's a hole where I've -- there's been
years where I've gone for it a couple times and played it fairly poorly. So, you know, I
just kind of made up my mind the last couple of years that unless I felt really good about
the shot I was going to hit in there, I was just trying to lay it up. And I birdied the
hole the last few days; so it was the right decision. You know, just one of those holes
you have to be really comfortable hitting that shot, and neither yesterday or today being
--

Q. When had you actually decided? 

JUSTIN LEONARD: No. I was thinking about it pretty much the whole time. That's kind of
the nice thing there on the green because I could go through all the options. We talked
about, "Okay, if I hit a 3-iron, if I hit a 1-iron, 3-wood, back to 3-iron." I
said, "Forget it; just give me a 7-iron." 

Q. Speaking of that shot on 6, taking the bunkers out of play on 7 and 8, how much of
your improved play is mental, just hitting smarter, safer golf shots? 

JUSTIN LEONARD: You know, that's a big part of it. And I think, you know, until the
last couple weeks, I've had to hit shots at the hole because I'm making too many mistakes
in other areas. But yeah, I hit a save shot on 7 past the hole and same thing at 8. You
know a little bit right of the hole. Playing well, that's a luxury I can afford. It's a
by-product of playing well and having made birdies and things like that that I feel like I
can make a 15-footer; whereas, you know, some of my story this year was I felt like I
needed to hit it in there three, four, five, feet to really have a birdie chance. So now
that I'm making a couple more putts, you know, I don't have to play quite as aggressive
all the time. And I'm not making as many mistakes. 

Q. Yesterday in here you talked a little bit about what it was like mentally coming out
with a couple of guys already having gone low in the afternoon. What's the difference
coming out in the morning when you know that the guys above you are not going to be moving
because they are playing in the afternoon? Is that a different mental start in the round?
How does that play into it? 

JUSTIN LEONARD: Not really. My mental start got off with missing -- No. 10 was my 1st
hole, missing that fairway and missing No. 12. So, you know, I didn't drive the ball as
well today. I really wasn't thinking much about, you know, I need to get to 13-under or
10-under, whatever. I just was out there, basically hitting one shot at a time, trying to
put the ball into play and give myself chances. So I didn't really think too much. I mean,
had I been playing as well as I did yesterday, you know, I think I would have tried to
stick a number out there to go at. But, you know, I didn't -- I wasn't hitting it well
enough today to really think that way. 

Q. Was is more of a defensive sort of approach?

JUSTIN LEONARD: Yeah. Yeah, it was. You know, I was able to -- I hit some really good
shots the last four holes, and, you know, birdied two of them. Could have birdied the
other two. So that's what I look on today was that, you know, I was struggling, trying to
pull it back together. So go work on some things this afternoon and hopefully play like
that tomorrow. 

Q. This question kind of gets old for you, but today when you did hit it in the
fairway, you were routinely both beyond Michael and Kirk, neither of whom have had the rap
of being short hitters. Are you hitting it farther than you did three years ago? 

JUSTIN LEONARD: What did you say before you asked that question? I hope this is --

Q. I said I know this is getting old.

JUSTIN LEONARD: Oh, no, it's not getting old. Talk about me getting longer, are you
kidding me? (Laughter.) That's not getting old. That's the first time I ever heard that.
Usually, it's: "Well, you're a short hitter, so how do you" --

Q. You are a lot longer, though, aren't you, or is that a myth to begin with? 

JUSTIN LEONARD: No. That wasn't a myth. I've never been considered a long hitter, and
I've been, you know, certainly on the shorter side, average, but I think the things I've
done physically and with my golf swing, I think that's -- I'm getting -- I think I'm an
average-length hitter now. And certainly when I'm swinging well, like yesterday and
somewhat today, you know, I can go ahead and take a rip at it and get it out there with
some guys. So I don't feel like I'm only able to play a certain golf course. I mean, last
week was a good example. That's always been kind of a haven for long hitters. You know, I
competed very well there. So, you know, although the short hitting wasn't a myth two or
three years ago, you know, I don't feel it's as true now. 

Q. Is there a distance at all, can you put a number on it how many yards you think you
have gained? 

JUSTIN LEONARD: No. I mean, it depends on the golf course. I think I'm probably a club
longer, and that's really since -- since probably October, November. You know, usually
with your irons, you gain a little bit . I think I've done a lot of good things physically
and to get in good shape, get stronger, and it seems to be paying off. 

Q. Along the same lines, you've won here, but there's been a debate over the years
whether this has been a long hitter's golf course. Can you characterize this course? 

JUSTIN LEONARD: I think it suits a guy who is hitting the ball well. There's some golf
courses where you can kind of fake it around, and here I don't think you can. You know,
you've got some room in the majority of the fairways, but you've got some places where you
have to drive to be straight. And it certainly helps hitting the ball from the fairway,
because the greens are for the most part small and fairly well undulating. So you have to
-- distance control is very important, and just hitting the ball well and knowing what
you're trying to do, you know, and I think if you look at the winners here, I think you
see a lot of that. Started at No. 10. So I birdied the 11th hole. I hit a 7-iron about
eight feet. Bogeyed the 12th. Drove it in the rough. Hit it short of the green, pitched it
on and missed about a 6-footer. 15, I hit a 6-iron about five feet. Made that for birdie.
6th hole I talked about. Just laid it up, hit a sand wedge to about two feet. And 7, hit a
7-iron about 20 feet. Made that for birdie. 

Q. Having said what you said about not playing as well today, or you didn't feel as you
did yesterday, but still having the lead with other golfers still to go off, you put
yourself in a real good position for the last two days, you would think. How do you feel
about that? 

JUSTIN LEONARD: Yeah, I don't expect to come out and play great four straight days. You
know, when I or anybody else out here is playing well, or they are having a day like today
and where they are not hitting as good or things like that, they get a decent score out of
it. You kind of feel like you're going to have one round -- if you're playing well, you're
going to have one round that maybe you're going to be a little bit off, and then maybe
three good ones. So hopefully, I got that one round out of the way today and I can come
back and play really solid the next two days. 

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT