THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT
May 29, 2000
Justin Leonard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 JUSTIN LEONARD: You know, it's a great week. I told myself yesterday, no matter how I
played today that I was going to take some positives from this week. And how I played, and
then to go out and play well again today, I mean, this is the first time I even came close
to putting four rounds together. So, you know, obviously it was much needed in my case,
and, you know, I may be -- I'm probably as happy as that guy out there on 18 green right
now.  
 
Q. Sometimes you play well and you're not quite sure if you've found something or if
you can repeat it. Have you found something and can you repeat it? Do you know why you've
played well the last two days, what you're doing mechanically, or is it a feeling like you
can take with you and --?
 
 JUSTIN LEONARD: It's not too much A mechanical feeling. I was talking to Peter Costas
yesterday, and when you're playing well you basically see one thing, an area where you
want to start the ball and an area where you want it to end up, and that includes off the
tee, irons into the green, chip shots, things like that. When you're not playing well, you
go from this kind of focus, and it gets wider and wider and you start seeing things where
you -- gee, I don't want to hit it here. Those are the kind of things. And, you know, this
week, I just started off with a really solid round on Thursday and kind of set the tone
for things. And from then on, I was able to play pretty aggressively, and it was really
nice to be able to put four good rounds together. 
 
Q. Ernie said that if he thought he could get to 17, he thought he could make Tiger
possibly think about you guys. Did you ever have a similar feeling? Did the bogey at the
start mess yourself up for the day or at the turn did you think, "I can make him
think about me"?
 
 JUSTIN LEONARD: I turned -- at 13, and, you know, I thought if I could go out and
birdie three or four holes in a row there early, like Ernie said, get to it 17(-under) or
somewhere in there to where at least you got within two or three or four shots, and, you
know at least make him think about it a little bit. So I would say I went out with the
same kind of attitude.  
 
Q. Someone said you were using a new putter today; is that correct?
 
 JUSTIN LEONARD: I'm using an old putter. I just went back to it this week. I went back
to the archives in my closet on Monday night before coming here, and it's Ping Anser that
I actually used to win the Amateur here in '92. 
 
Q. How long since you've had that in the bag? 
 
 JUSTIN LEONARD: It's been collecting dust for about five years.  
 
Q. Worked well, obviously. 
 
 JUSTIN LEONARD: Yeah, it's got a good chance of staying in the bag for a while.  
 
Q. How many putters do you keep in the closet? 
 
 JUSTIN LEONARD: Well, putters I've actually used in tournaments, I mean, since I turned
professional I might have used seven or eight, but probably had 40, just because you get
backups and you get people with different mechs and things like that. So lots of putters
that never made it past the practice green. But it took a little while -- actually pretty
easy to find because it's the only one where the grip is so worn.  
 
Q. Did you use that specifically because of the '92 Amateur? 
 
 JUSTIN LEONARD: No. I needed to make a change. Something away from what I've been
doing. You know, something that I knew that was familiar to me, and so it just, you know
kind of dawned on me on Monday while I as at home. So I started digging through the closet
and brought that one and another one up here, and it certainly made the grade this week. 
 
Q. How is it mentally chasing Tiger, compared to chasing anybody else out here,
especially with the size of the lead obviously today, does it make it different than if it
would have been three or four shots? 
 
 JUSTIN LEONARD: It does, yeah. You know, I don't know if chasing Tiger is different
from chasing anybody else. I mean we all can make mistakes and obviously Tiger hasn't made
many, but, you know, you still feel like when you're playing well that, you know, that you
can beat him. You know, if you don't, then you're already starting a couple shots back.
So, you know didn't happen this week, but you know I think everybody out here is beatable.
Just have to have the right kind of day and the right week. And this week wasn't it, but,
you know, for me I've got too many positive things to carry away than to think about that.
 
 
Q. Can you go over your eagle, please? 
 
 JUSTIN LEONARD: No. 5, par 5, hit a solid drive. Laid up with a 4-iron to -- I think I
had 81 yards and used a 60-degree wedge, and I hit about four feet short left of the hole
and it kind of jumped out -- it was spinning left. It went in pretty fast. It might have
been two, three, or four feet the other side of the hole. 
 
Q. You played two strong rounds, and then yesterday you have to sit. How does that --
how did that affect you I mean, you had it going and then you have to wait a day when you
feel like your confidence is back. Does that make it even more special the way you played
today? 
 
 JUSTIN LEONARD: Yeah, exactly. I mean, that's where some of that uncertainty creeps in,
having the day off, not being able to kind of continue, even though it was -- you know the
difference between the third round and what was going to be the final round, there's a lot
of time there, but, you know to throw a day in, it does make today's round even that much
better for me. Like I say, I'm almost glad I shot 68 today, rather than yesterday, for
that very reason.  
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT