THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT
May 26, 2000
Justin Leonard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JUSTIN LEONARD: My play today was pretty interesting. Felt like I could have gotten a
better score out of it. I don't think I hit the ball quite as well as I did yesterday, but
I certainly had chances, and you know, wasn't able to do a whole lot with them. So I can't
believe I say this after the last two months, but I'm actually a little disappointed with
my round today. But, you know maybe that's good. I'm expecting a lot of myself, you know I
am struggling quite a bit this year. It's good that I've still got, you know -- I still
think I want to go out there and shoot 65 and think that I can. 

Q. Did you feel a good patch coming on from the work that you've been doing? Did you
think that it might be this week or some time very soon? 

JUSTIN LEONARD: Hoping. But you know I've been saying that to myself for the last three
months. I've been working awfully hard. I haven't done any extra work to get ready for
this week. If anything, maybe back off a little bit, and try that approach. You know,
yeah, I felt like my game has been somewhat close, but, you know had a setback at the
Byron Nelson, and last week wasn't very good. I try to pick myself up and every Thursday
go out there with a good attitude, hoping that things will start to turn around and, you
know, maybe this is the beginning of it. 

Q. Was the good weather today a big factor, and if so, do you think that will affect
your game tomorrow? Are you nervous at all about what they say is coming in? 

JUSTIN LEONARD: I'm not a weatherman; so I don't try to predict. You know, I guess you
just kind of prepare for the worst and hope it's better than that. But yeah, with the
course in great shape and no wind, today was the day to shoot low. 

Q. Do you feel like you let a few shots get away today because the conditions were so
much better than yesterday? 

JUSTIN LEONARD: Yes. 

Q. Harrison was in here before and talking about growing up together. Have you been at
all surprised to see what he's done since he's decided to come back and play golf
seriously? What's your reaction been to it? 

JUSTIN LEONARD: I'm not surprised at all. You know, I've always felt like Harrison
growing up, even at age 13 or 14, always said, "Man, I wish I could hit the ball like
him." You know, I have always felt like he had more of a natural -- more natural
ability than I had. And I just happened to work at it. But, you know, it's fun to see. I
know yesterday when I was out there playing and seeing the start he got off to, I mean,
that put a smile on my face, and those have been few and far between on the golf course.
You know, yeah, it's fun to watch him play well. I don't watch golf when I'm at home for a
week off, but, you know, I was watching New Orleans there a month ago when he was playing
so well. You know, it's a rarity for me. So, yeah, I love seeing him do well, and, you
know, it's -- he's a streaky player. He's going to go through steps where, you know he
could win two or three tournaments in a row, and then who knows what lies down the road.
But he knows that. And when he gets on a streak, he knows how to really go after it. 

Q. How old were you when you beat him the first time? He says you beat him all the
time?

JUSTIN LEONARD: I don't know. Probably been playing with each other since we were 11 or
12 years old. 

Q. He said you beat him like a drum. 

JUSTIN LEONARD: I don't know, I've probably got in his pocket before he got in mine,
but when he did get in mine, it was a big chunk. (Laughs). 

Q. Other than, you know, working with your coach, some guys when they are not playing
well seek advice from other guys and some guys sort of like working it out themselves. How
do you sort of handle that? Do you talk to a lot of other guys, maybe trying to pick up
things or have you just sort of kept to yourself? 

JUSTIN LEONARD: You know, it's pretty hard to ask guys about playing bad once you go
through it because you don't -- my feeling is I don't want them -- I don't want the
thoughts that I put in their head creep in there while they are playing. So I don't really
want to talk to other players about it, because I wouldn't -- you know, I just -- I don't
want to have any affect on anybody's game. So basically, you know, through my coach and my
psychologist and my trainer and my grocery sack -- whatever, the guy at the car wash,
between all those people, I've probably gotten a little too much information. You know, I
was at home for three weeks, played the Byron Nelson, Colonial, and that was really
difficult, because everybody was, you know -- everybody wanted to see me play well and
everybody was telling me why I'm not. So I was kind of looking forward to this week and
kind of getting away from that.

Q. When you said that you tried maybe backing off a little bit and trying, I suppose,
not too many things, what do you do when you back off or what do you not do when you are
backing off? Is there something you do less?

JUSTIN LEONARD: Well, you know, instead of hitting balls for three hours, in order to
hit balls for three hours, so I can say I hit balls for three hours, you know, that's --
it's not -- it hasn't been mechanics. If I get in this position, everything will be fine.
It's not that kind of solution. You know, my game has been something different every day.
And, you know, if anybody has a solution for that, I'd love to hear it. I haven't found
one. The last two days, it's been a little more consistent. But, you know, it's just --
when I say, "Back off". I mean, if I go play a round, I don't drive the ball
well, go to the range, hit a couple balls, hit some drivers, get comfortable with it and
leave, instead of sitting there hitting balls, after balls, after balls. And, you know,
then maybe finding something else, oh, I need to work on this; oh, I need to do that. I
think the thing I'm trying not to do is get desperate. I don't want to get desperate to
where every day I've got to go fix something or fix everything. Just trying to find one
thing to work on instead of 50. And, you know, then when I do get finished away from the
golf course, leave it in my locker. You know, don't take it back to the room or back to my
house with me. Leave it at the golf course.

Q. You've been fortunate, even in amateur golf, to not have a prolonged slump before?

JUSTIN LEONARD: Yeah, there's been periods where I've -- the topic my first four years
on tour was why I couldn't play the West Coast. And so every year, I dreaded January. And
I've gotten over that. You know, yeah there's been two, or three, or four months, but
probably not this long. 

Q. I was just curious what the grocery bag boy would tell you?

JUSTIN LEONARD: I don't know, I was just kind of kidding. (Laughs). My attempt at
humor. 

Q. What's going through your head now? You've gone 4-under; you're playing well. What's
in your head now? Do you think; is this the light at the end of the tunnel? 

JUSTIN LEONARD: I don't want to go that far yet. For the first time in about 10 months,
I am excited that I'm frustrated. I've had a lot of bad frustration, and I've done a good
job of, like I said, leaving it at the golf course. But this was a frustration that I
played good, didn't get much out of it, but I'm still, you know, in the tournament, if I
can go out and play really well this weekend. That's a good frustration. So that's
encouraging. Still frustrated, so I'm going to let those two things fight it out. But, you
know that's encouraging to me. But, you know, I wouldn't say that I'm out of anything. If
I go on to play well the rest of the weekend, I don't think I'm out of the woods yet. One
week is not going to fix everything. You know, it's going to -- it has to snowball and
hopefully, this is the beginning of that snowball. 

Q. What was the state of your game going into the Ryder Cup last year? Were you this
concerned at that time also or were you playing better? 

JUSTIN LEONARD: You know, I was playing okay. The British Open was still pretty recent.
Struggled a little bit in August. But I think I played -- I played okay somewhere before
that, maybe the Canadian Open. But, you know it was -- I didn't see myself in the
beginning of a slump at that time.

Q. Would you characterize this as a slump? A lot of guys don't make a cut for four
months and that's a slump. You've still had high finishes. Are we making too much of this?


JUSTIN LEONARD: I'm not being a smart ass, but what is the definition of a slump?
Nobody knows. But with my hair (lifting cap off) I'm in a slump. Look at this -- well,
okay. But I think a slump is something you have to be able to come out of, and that's
pretty permanent. (Laughter.) You know, unless you take drastic measures, it will all go. 

Q. The thing is I don't want to get desperate.

JUSTIN LEONARD: Exactly. Just leave it in your locker. What is a slump? I think it's a
level; you go back down. But a slump you come out of, and I'm going to come out of this. I
would define it as a temporary decline in one's performance in whatever they may do. But
that's the key thing, is that temporary? So, you know, I've kept that in the back of my
mind the whole time.

Q. Are you and Harrison having dinner together or anything like that? 

JUSTIN LEONARD: Yeah, we do occasionally. I mean, the last couple weeks, he's been
busy, he's got family and everything going on. So do I. But hopefully, we'll get together
this weekend. We rode up together and played on Tuesday; so he was probably sick of me
after that. 

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT