WGC ANDERSEN CONSULTING MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 23, 2000
Justin Leonard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 JUSTIN LEONARD: I didn't play well. I missed the cut last week in LA. And I've been
working on a few things the first couple of days, but not feeling real comfortable. I
didn't know what to expect going out there today. I missed my first two fairways, but
happened to birdie two. And from then on, played pretty solid. I made a 30-footer for
birdie on 3. And I gave myself a lot of opportunities. I made a bogey at 6, but then
birdied 8 and birdied 12. So I think I took advantage of some opportunities that I had and
played where Fred really had to press. And it's hard, too, in conditions like they were
today.  
 
Q. What kind of things have you been working on, exactly?
 
 JUSTIN LEONARD: Working on my posture, really had to address. And just trying to get
through the ball up to my left side. So it feels a little different, but obviously today
hitting some good shots. I came in today with no confidence, and I finished the day with a
lot built up from the way I hit the ball. 
 
Q. What are the conditions out there today?
 
 JUSTIN LEONARD: Pretty rough. The wind is picking up. It looks like it could rain at
any second. And the golf course is real soft. So it's -- if a golf course is firm and it
rains, you can hit it down low and keep it under the wind. But you're not able to do that
here because it's so soft. So today I did a pretty good job of judging things and keeping
the ball up in the air. 
 
Q. David was saying last week that what happened in Brookline helped change his view of
match play. Do you carry anything from Brookline here about match play?
 
 JUSTIN LEONARD: I've always had a very -- a good view of match play, and I've always
enjoyed it. Obviously I played more of it in amateur golf, which seems -- it used to seem
pretty recent. Now it's getting further and further away from my amateur career. But
playing in some Presidents Cup matches and Ryder Cup matches, it's a lot of fun. I
wouldn't want to play every week, but it's a nice change of pace. And anytime you can get
-- I'll give you the PGA TOUR quote, "the world's 64 best together," some fun
things are going to happen. 
 
Q. There's really no upsets here, are there?
 
 JUSTIN LEONARD: There aren't. I think that was proved last year at this event. On any
given day, any player in this field can beat anybody else. And I think seeding it is just
a matter of showing who's going to play against who; it doesn't necessarily mean there's a
favorite. 
 
Q. If you're going to come to a tournament with no confidence, is it better to come to
a match play tournament than stroke-play tournament?
 
 JUSTIN LEONARD: I don't know, I've done both several times. Sure. I was thinking about
it last night. You only had to beat one guy today. And so with the way I played, I had
some confidence. And tomorrow you go out and beat one more guy. And so that's kind of the
way I was looking at it and probably will continue as long as I get to hang around. 
 
Q. How do you view this tournament in the whole scheme of things? Is it an important
week? A different week? How would you characterize it?
 
 JUSTIN LEONARD: It's an important week. It's fun because it's different. But I don't
think -- there's a reason the Majors aren't match play tournaments, because the battle is
over 72 holes. There, you can have an off day and still have a chance to win. Now, at this
event you can have an off day and still win, but sometimes you're not always rewarded for
great play. But it's unique and it's exciting. And as long as I'm still playing, I'll
think that way. 
 
Q. Justin, do you take time off between --?
 
 JUSTIN LEONARD: I had this weekend off.  
 
Q. I mean do you take time off during the year? Some of the other players here were
saying they take anywhere from five to ten weeks off between, say, the end of --?
 
 JUSTIN LEONARD: I'd like to know how they do that. No, I haven't had much time off. I
had a couple of weeks off at the beginning of the year. I'm traveling next week, and then
I have a couple of weeks off. So I'm taking a few two-week breaks during the year. But no
ten-week vacations for me. 
 
Q. What would something like that do to your game?
 
 JUSTIN LEONARD: Oh, I don't know. Yeah, I've had periods in December or whatever where
I've had that much time off. But I enjoy playing, and I don't want to get away from
playing tournaments for that long. 
 
Q. Does it drain on your mentally to play that much?
 
 JUSTIN LEONARD: Well, the more you ask me, yeah (laughter.) I think I've got my
schedule set up between now and May to where I'll be ready for Augusta. And then I can get
my game ready for the summer and the two Opens and the PGA. 
 
 JUSTIN LEONARD: 8, I hit I think a 9-iron to about 8 feet. And then 12 it was like 40
yards from the green and pitched up to about 8 feet, and made that.  
 
Q. Did you come down and practice for the weekend, or where did you go?
 
 JUSTIN LEONARD: I stayed in LA, hanging out with some friends. I went to the Getty
Center, which I would recommend. 
 
Q. Came down here Monday?
 
 JUSTIN LEONARD: Sunday afternoon. 
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT