CANON GREATER HARTFORD OPEN
July 30, 1999
Justin Leonard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JUSTIN LEONARD:  Today was a little more interesting than yesterday.  Struggled -- I missed the first three greens, and then I hit the ball pretty well, until the last six holes.  And then I missed a couple fairways and some greens, but managed to get the ball up-and-down.  You know, today I struggled a little bit, but still got a decent score out of it.  You know, hopefully I can work a little bit on the range this evening and hit the ball a little more the way I did yesterday.

JUSTIN LEONARD:  Parred the first two holes. I hit an 8-iron right of the green and pitched it up to about seven feet and missed that.  Birdied 15.  I hit driver on about pin-high on the right side of the green and 2-putted for birdie.  17, I hit an 8-iron to about eight feet; made that for birdie.  18, I hit a sand wedge to about two feet; made that.  Parred 1 and 2.  3, I hit an 8-iron to about 12 feet.  Then I parred my way in.


Q.  Was it 5 that you had the save?

JUSTIN LEONARD:  4, I took a drop and hit it up in front of the green.  Made a good up-and-down.  5, I hit it in the green-side bunker.  Blasted out about 25 feet and made that for par.  And then I hit a bad lay-up on 6, and I hit a bad tee shot on 7.  I played the last two holes pretty solid.  But for a while there, it was pretty much Army golf.


Q.  What do you want to work on at the range?

JUSTIN LEONARD:  I don't know.  I think my rhythm got thrown off a little bit.  Kind of the tempo with my swing.  I don't think it was anything real technical.  But you know, I just need to go work on hitting a few different shots.  You know, just trying to hit it a little more solid.


Q.  It seemed as though the wind was picking up a little bit today.  Was that much of a factor at all? 

JUSTIN LEONARD:  It was nice because it cooled things off a little bit.  If anything, the golf course played a little harder today.  It dried out more.  And with the fairways the way they are drying out, especially this afternoon over yesterday morning, I imagine they will continue to do that over the weekend.


Q.  Justin, you may have answered this already: How important is this tournament to your quest to make the Ryder Cup team, and how badly do you want to be on the Ryder Cup team?

JUSTIN LEONARD:  I want to be on the team. That's a goal of mine every year, or every two years, I should say, because I think it's a wonderful event. It's very unique.  It's just a special thing to be a part of.  My schedule is tailored around my standings and things like that.  Right now, I've been playing a lot and feel like my game is in pretty good shape.  But first and foremost this week, I want to try to win this tournament, because it's always -- winning is a goal.  And when you get yourself in position, you know -- or when I get myself in position, I want to take advantage of that.  And I haven't been able to do that this year.  Winning is the most important thing to me, and I'm approaching this with the attitude that if I come out and play well, and give myself chances, then making the team will take care of itself.


Q.  Do you like your position?  Are you satisfied with it?

JUSTIN LEONARD:  In this tournament?


Q.  Yeah.

JUSTIN LEONARD:  Yeah.  Being a couple shots back with two days left, that's -- it's a good spot to be in.  Hopefully, I can go and play well tomorrow and give myself a chance to win on Sunday.


Q.  Would you like to see the wind pick up? Because you're a pretty good wind player.

JUSTIN LEONARD:  You know, everybody has to play in the same conditions; so, I think we'll all make the adjustments.  But, you know, I've had fun the last two days making some birdies, because a couple weeks ago, they were too hard to find.  But it's -- I wouldn't say any wind conditions are going to favor myself or other players here.  You know, it's -- I don't want to try to predict the weather and be disappointed.


Q.  How did your caddie do today?

JUSTIN LEONARD:  He did great.  He's a lot of fun out there.  Yesterday was pretty easy.  Today, with me struggling a little bit with my swing, he always had something positive to say.  He's great.  And my regular caddie does the same kind of things.  Sometimes it's good to have a little -- a little change in there, but it's no wonder that Bruce has been so successful for so long.  And caddying for Tom Watson doesn't hurt, either.


Q.  How difficult is 18 playing?

JUSTIN LEONARD:  I hit a 5-iron yesterday.  I didn't hit a great drive yesterday.  Today I hit a really good drive and hit sand wedge in.  It's playing a lot different.


Q.  Are you surprised that some of the players that want to be in the Ryder Cup that need the points are not here and the ones that don't are?

JUSTIN LEONARD:  I'm a little surprised.  But I don't know that the amount of tournaments that they might have played in the past two months.  It's hard to criticize somebody on that.  But knowing my situation, I like it here, and I like the golf course.  But that's a big reason why I'm here is to give myself another opportunity to get some points.


Q.  They announced the crowd at 60,000 (total) today.  Can you talk about the crowd here and the support that this tournament gets?

JUSTIN LEONARD:  It's pretty amazing.  I mean, with all the -- as big as this tournament is, it still has kind of a community, almost a small-town feel to it.  The only difference is there's three or four times the number of people that you normally have in small-town events.  But the people are great.  They are very supportive.  And, you know, they like to hear themselves talk, and they like to interact with the players a little bit.  But usually they are saying good things.  So as long as they keep doing that, then we're not going to have any problems.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT