CANON GREATER HARTFORD OPEN
July 29, 1999
Justin Leonard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JUSTIN LEONARD:  I hit the ball very well.  I think I just missed one fairway, 12, and made bogey there.  Other than that, I hit the ball well off the tee.  I hit it close several times, and, you know, I made some good 8- and 10-footers.  But didn't really struggle too much today.  And it's nice just to go out there, and, you know, try to make birdies.  Going through the round, parred the first two holes.  The 3rd hole hit an 8-iron about 15 feet.  Made that for birdie.  4th hole, I hit a 4-iron about 10 feet and made that for birdie.  The 8th hole, I hit a 4-iron to about a foot. Made that for birdie.  The 10th hole, I hit a 6-iron about 15 feet. Made that for birdie.  The 12th hole, I drove it right, then short of the green and chipped to about 20 feet.  2-putted for bogey.  13, third shot I hit a sand wedge to about a foot and a half.  Made that for birdie.  Made a good up-and-down for par from short of the green on 15.  17, I hit a 7-iron to about a foot and a half.  Made that.  18, I hit a 5-iron to about 12 feet and made that.


Q.  Justin, could you talk about -- I know at the Buick, I asked you a question about playing, and you said:  "I want to play a lot because of the Ryder Cup."  Can you talk about that, how important that is to you?

JUSTIN LEONARD:  Well, you know, it's certainly one of my goals at the beginning of each year is to, you know -- last year it was Top-10s and get points and win tournaments and those kind of things. This year, it's a little more of an immediate goal.  I think there was a while there through kind of mid-spring where I was thinking about it too much.  I started thinking about it on the golf course and those kind of things, and I really wasn't doing myself any favors.  I think I did a really good job about that at the British Open.  Just focusing so much on that  tournament and what was going on there, and it really didn't -- never gave Ryder Cup or the points a thought until after the tournament.  So, I real realize there's going to be times after a round and things like that.  But when I'm out there on the golf course, I'm working harder to impress my caddie.  That's what I'm thinking about out there, rather than, you know, the Ryder Cup.  I figure if I play well these next three weeks, that's all I can do, and hopefully everything will take care of itself.


Q.  Why is it so important to you, the Ryder Cup?

JUSTIN LEONARD:  You know, it's a great event.  It's very unique.  You know, playing with the best 12 players from the U.S., to be a part of that group, and then to be together in some social occasions.  In '97 at Valderrama, you know, I had as much fun in the practice rounds and going to dinner and things like that.  It's a different kind of fun from the actual competition.  But I really enjoyed that.  It's nice when you're trying to beat each other's brains out so often, to be able to get in a situation where you're pulling -- kind of pulling together, and you just kind of have one goal in mind.


Q.  What do you mean when you're out there, you're not thinking about the Ryder Cup; you're trying to impress your caddie.  What does that mean?

JUSTIN LEONARD:  Bruce Edwards is caddying for me this week, who is Tom Watson's regular, and my caddie is taking the week off.  He's getting married in about a month.  He's in Austin, at home, and so, you know, Bruce, I don't want him to fly up here and work for me for a week and not get anything out of it.  I don't think it's motivation.  I kind of say that jokingly.  But, it's just nice to come out and play well.  Hopefully I can make his trip worth it.


Q.  He's used to a pretty high standard.

JUSTIN LEONARD:  He's used to a very high standard for a very long time.  And I don't want to stand in the way of that.


Q.  How have you done with substitute caddies in the past?

JUSTIN LEONARD:  Not bad.  I haven't won any events, but I've had --  usually once or twice a year, Joe LaCava, who has caddied for Fred Couples and Davis; he has caddied for me a few times.  These are guys I feel comfortable.  I've played around Tom Watson and played around him enough to know Bruce; so I have a good idea of what I was getting into when I got here.


Q.  Who is your regular caddie?

JUSTIN LEONARD:  Bob Riefke.


Q.  Justin, if Bruce had been caddying for Van de Velde at the British Open, do you think there would  have even been a playoff?

JUSTIN LEONARD:  I'm not even going to go there.


Q.  Now, you've had a week and a half to put it into perspective.  What are your thoughts on how close you came and what might have been?

JUSTIN LEONARD:  It's still pretty tough.  I feel good about the things I did.  The decisions that I made.  You know, hindsight is 20/20.  If I'd have known, I would have done things differently.  At the time, I think I made all the right decisions, and that feels good.  It certainly makes it easier.  But, it's tough to go through that for four days and to get so close, and, you know, just have four holes between three guys.  Two birdies on the last two holes would have been very hard to beat.  But if you go through all that and be so close to winning second, it really would have been something special.


Q.  When you got into the playoff, did you think you had the edge, having been there and done that, where the other two didn't?

JUSTIN LEONARD:  I didn't really look necessarily for an edge.  You know, I think maybe if it had just been myself and one other player, possibly so.  But with a three-ball, it was -- yeah, I was just more thinking about the shots I needed to hit.


Q.  Given that you feel bad, how do you think Van de Velde feels?  He seemed to handle it well?

JUSTIN LEONARD:  I imagine I probably had a little easier time than he has.


Q.  Were your friends at home, what was their reaction to the crazy Sunday afternoon?

JUSTIN LEONARD:  I've been through the story quite a few times of:  When did you know; where were you; what was going on; all those kind of things.  It's funny to hear the stories about where my friends where and what they were doing and how they had all turned their TVs off and started doing something else, and all of the sudden somebody called and said:  You've got to flip it back on.  So that happened to just about everybody.  My friends and family were great.  Nothing but positives.  Those kind of things certainly help you get over something.


Q.  Were they as shocked as everyone else?

JUSTIN LEONARD:  I think any golf fan was pretty surprised in watching what happened.


Q.  What do you say to a guy after the playoff, when you shake his hand and you've just lost a tournament like that?

JUSTIN LEONARD:  You know, there's not much you can say.  I just told him to remember that he got himself in that kind of position to win in the first  place, but there's not a whole lot you can say.


Q.  How do you handle pressure, Justin, yourself, pressure situations like he faced coming down the stretch?  I know you don't want to talk about him much, but how do you handle pressure situations?

JUSTIN LEONARD:  I don't know if there's a -- if I have a certain way of handling it.  But I think just doing the things that I normally do.  You know, crazy thoughts run through everybody's head, including my own.  But I think, you know, you get in a situation like that and if I'm playing well, then I have the ability to block those extra thoughts out and really concentrate on what I'm trying to do.  Now, if I'm not playing well, then I'm more likely to have some of those thoughts running through my head.


Q.  Have you played the Country Club, or do you plan to play it?

JUSTIN LEONARD:  I haven't.


Q.  Do you plan to play it before?

JUSTIN LEONARD:  If I make the team, yes, I will.  But not before then.


Q.  From what you know of Medinah, how are you preparing your game?

JUSTIN LEONARD:  I'm practicing with a lot of 3 and 4-irons.  Hitting a lot of drivers.  I went out and played it during the Western Open.  You're going to have to drive the ball well, because of the length of the golf course.  You're going to have to hit it straight.  You know, you're going to have to hit some good, mid- to long-iron shots.  Those kind of things I'll probably be working on a little more next week, just during practice sessions, things like that.  I try to stay pretty much in the present. Certainly knowing that's coming up, I'll hit a few more 1-irons and 3-irons than I might normally hit.


Q.  Comparing one 7400-yard course in Carnoustie to another, doglegs --

JUSTIN LEONARD:  In Medinah, it's a true 7,400 yards.  Any links course plays short because of the amount of roll you get.  You play a hole downwind that's 480 yards and it plays more like 340 yards; so it's a different kind of length.  It's going to require higher shots and the ball coming into little softer because the greens aren't exceptionally large.  You're going to miss some greens, short irons; so it's going to test everything.


Q.  Scores are extraordinarily low today.  What is it?

JUSTIN LEONARD:  I think the lack of wind, and the golf course is pretty soft.  I think the drought -- we are keeping everything green and alive; they have  had to put some water on the golf course.  The fairways are fairly soft, which makes them more generous.  The greens are firming up a little bit, but playing early this morning, they are pretty soft.


Q.  Is this the easiest you've ever seen it in the years you've been here?

JUSTIN LEONARD:  Probably so.  I don't recall many -- I know I've never shot anything this low here, but I don't recall many rounds below 6- and 7-under here.


Q.  Can you imagine any group of tougher major courses this year, and do you think that's the way it should be.  Talking about the way Pinehurst was set up and Carnoustie.

JUSTIN LEONARD:  I think it provided a great test for all of us.  I don't think it's been manufactured in any way.  I think these golf courses should play as they are intended.  And the USGA did a wonderful job with Pinehurst in that respect, in that that's how Donald Ross intended the golf course to be played, as far as I know and to my knowledge.  I think as long as it's not manufactured by pin placements and those kind of things.  Just go out there and set the golf course up and let us at it.  You know, these golf courses have certainly held up.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT