U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 17, 1998
Justin Leonard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
LES UNGER:  We are glad to have Justin Leonard with us today.  Justin, your name has come up quite a few times in the last day and a half of talking to some of your fellow pros as the kind of player who would have a good opportunity this week, and I wonder if you would agree with them. 
 
JUSTIN LEONARD:  Well, this is a week that I look forward to because I have an idea what the golf course setup is going to be like.  Traditionally tight fairways that will be firm, fast and firm greens, a lot of rough around the fairways and greens.  Put a real premium on keeping the ball in play.  Here this week trying to keep it below the hole.  I have enjoyed playing the golf course.  Feel okay about my game right now, and, you know, hopefully, I can hit the ball well enough to give myself a chance. 
 

Q.  How is the course today compared to yesterday, compared to Sunday?  What state are we getting to with the golf course today?
 
JUSTIN LEONARD:  It seems to be getting a little drier.  I played really early this morning so the greens were still pretty soft.  But, it seems to be drying out a little bit.  A lot of places where the sun doesn't hit the greens, you know, certain spots on the greens and things until 9 o'clock, those areas are going to stay a little soft.  But, I think it seems a little faster later in the day, and I think the forecast is reasonably good, so I see no reason for that to continue. 
 

Q.  Can you talk about the mind games that a golf course like this can play and what kind of demeanor you have to have to be successful out there?
 
JUSTIN LEONARD:  Well, if you are playing pretty good, it sure makes it a lot easier.  Guys who are driving the ball well are going to have a good week here.  If you are not, it is going to be tough.  So I think that realizing there are some holes that, if you miss a fairway or something, making a bogey is a pretty good score and, you know, just staying patient.  But I think, as in the past at the U.S. Open, driving the ball is really the key to playing well. 
 

Q.  Could you talk about 17 here and your approach to playing 17 and the conversion of a par 5 into a par 4?
 
JUSTIN LEONARD:  Well, this is the only way I have played it, so I am not so much sure about playing it as a par 5.  But, I have hit driver, driver, 3-wood last couple of days, and, with the wind a little bit in, it is an extremely  difficult hole.  Just trying to get it up there somewhere around the green, not necessarily on it, but give myself a chance to try to get it up-and-down is basically the way I am going to try to play it this week. 
 

Q.  Are you reaching it on a consistent basis or are you just -- are you planning on trying to lay-up short?
 
JUSTIN LEONARD:  Well, when I hit a 3-wood, I am pretty much trying to hit it on the green.  I have been right around the front edge. 
 

Q.  Will you talk about the state of your game now?  How has the year gone for you, and, really, are you tuned up for this?  You said:  You feel okay about my game, and hopefully can hit the ball well enough.  I don't know if that is an understatement or --
 
JUSTIN LEONARD:  Take it as you wish.  I had a pretty good year.  I have been playing reasonably well of late.  A couple of good results and it is just -- I am not going to come in here overconfident.  So like I said, I enjoy playing the golf course.  I feel pretty good about what I am trying to do right now, and hopefully, I will play well this week. 
 

Q.  First U.S. Open Casey Martin is playing in, and he is driving by cart.  What is your opinion about that?
 
JUSTIN LEONARD:  I played with him on Monday and I think he is playing really well right now.  I think it is great to give him a chance to play here, for him to come out and qualify the way he did, and I wish him the best of luck this week. 
 

Q.  You come in here.  Everybody seems to be picking you, at least in the Top 3 -- particularly after the British Open, playing so well at Winged Foot.  Do you feel:  Hey, I'm U.S. Open potential champion right now, the way you strike the ball and the way you putt?
 
JUSTIN LEONARD:  Well, I think that if you were going to pick a couple of tournaments for me with my game to play well in, this would be one of them.  Because when I am playing well, I hit a lot of fairways.  I make a few putts, and really, I think, avoid making mistakes.  I am a very patient player.  I think those are the kind of attributes that pay off in this kind of event where par is a really good score as I think it will be this week.  I look forward to this Championship because I feel like I am going to do well, and I am comfortable with the setup.  I know what to look for, and this is the kind of golf that I like to play. 
 
JUSTIN LEONARD:  I am not going to predict any scores, but I think the golf course is -- seems to be getting a little more difficult everyday.  With the wind blowing the  way it is today -- I don't know if that is supposed to continue -- but, it just depends a lot on the weather and what it does. 
 

Q.  Brad Faxon made a remark about your tidiness during the U.S. Open.  Is it a remark that you heard enough of or was it -- in fact, do you have a fetish about tidiness?
 
JUSTIN LEONARD:  No, I wouldn't say it is a fetish. I think people have fetishes about cheese and chocolate.  It is just I am a pretty organized person.  I don't have labels on everything.  I don't even have one of those labelmaker deals, but you know, I just -- I like knowing where my stuff is. 
 

Q.  Last year all the young guys won the Majors; then Mark O'Meara comes along this year he won the Masters, kind of the more middle-aged guys.  Tom Lehman said even though the young guys were getting a lot of attention for the last year, that the old guys really never went away.  What is your read on kind of the current state?
 
JUSTIN LEONARD:  I don't think that -- I don't look at anybody as a young guy or an old guy.  Golf isn't really a sport where age makes a huge difference.  I mean, sure, the difference between a 15-year-old and a 30-year-old is a big difference, but once you are a professional on the PGA TOUR, I think age is -- I don't think is as great a factor as people give it.  Obviously experience, a player who is 40-years-old and, you know, has won Majors or come close is going to have a little more experience than somebody who is 22 or 23.  But I think it depends on the individual.  But I think that age is not a big a factor as some people maybe make it out to be. 
 
JUSTIN LEONARD:  Thank you. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT