U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 11, 1997
Justin Leonard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 LES UNGER:  Well, I think we'll get started with Justin and
others will straggle in.  And, we take a little pride that our
former U.S. Amateur Champion, another one, is doing extremely
well on the Tour with Phil Mickelson being one and Mr. Woods being
one and they're all doing great.  And, you had a nice win last
week.  A word or two about last week from you about your victory.

 JUSTIN LEONARD:  Well, you know, I came here thinking a little
bit about this week, and made plans to come over here and walk
the golf course.  But, really, after Friday's round - and I was
playing well right in the middle of the tournament - I decided,
you know, put all my attention into the Kemper Open and knowing
that I would have three solid days to get ready here.  And, so,
I think I did a good job of doing that and just playing the tournament
and, you know, start getting ready for this week on Monday.

 LES UNGER:  Justin, did you and did many of the other guys
establish a place to stay that would keep for two weeks? 

 JUSTIN LEONARD:  I'm sure a lot of guys did. I actually stayed
in a hotel last week and then a house this week.  So, you know,
I guess I'm superstitious about some things.  But, I was ready
to, you know, get into a house this week.

 Q.   Your comments on Congressional which you've played the
last couple days and what, you think, opportunity it presents
to you, the length you need here, et cetera?

 JUSTIN LEONARD:  Well, you have to drive the ball well, and,
you know, any time you hit it in the rough, you're probably looking
at bogey.  You know, you're going to be trying to get it up-and-down
from anywhere from 100 to 150 yards for par.  And, so, it puts
a real premium on driving the ball well, and a lot of patience,
and that's true with all the U.S. Opens.  You know, the guys who
go out and make the fewest amount of mistakes and stay patient
are the ones who are going to do well.

 LES UNGER:  Questions.


 Q.   Justin, did the fact that Kemper made a serious effort
to toughen its rough and toughen the course the pin placement,
et cetera, and so forth, are you seeing that from what you've
seen at Congressional, was that any advantage to you at all by
playing  successfully there last week?

 JUSTIN LEONARD:  I think so because there's a premium on driving
the ball last week.  And any time, last week you hit it in the
rough, you were penalized more so than in the past.  So, I think
that's an advantage coming into this week, because there's been
that pressure to keep the ball in the fairway, yet you need to
drive it with some length because it was playing long.  So I felt
it was set up well.  You know, played it the week before the Open
and that they had some rough and they tried to lengthen the course
as much as possible.

 Q.   Have you made the permanent switch to a metal headed
driver?  And, if so, why did you hold on so long to the wood and
what's the metal had to do for you?

 JUSTIN LEONARD:  I mean, what's permanent in this game, you know,
who knows what will happen, but for right now, I'm real happy
with the new driver. When I held out, I guess I couldn't find
a combination of something that I hit, you know, I figured it
wasn't going to be worth hitting unless I hit it 10 yards farther.
 And, I didn't want to sacrifice control, because that's what
my game is about.  And, if I lose that, then I'm changing too
much.  This driver, I'm able to control the height  very well.
 It's easy to work left to right - I am right to left - and, you
know, I was really surprised, because I hadn't found any metal
drivers I could do that with.

 Q.   Which one?  Which is it?

 JUSTIN LEONARD:  It's a Titleist Titanium, the number is 975D.
 They'll be selling them, you know, I think pretty soon.  I don't
know, but it's just -- you know, I think it's a combination of
the head and the shaft worked really well for me.

 LES UNGER:  Did it add 10 yards or more?

 JUSTIN LEONARD:  I wouldn't have switched if it hadn't.  Yeah,
and, you know, at times there's 15 or 20 yards, so it's -- you
know, it's really taken a lot of pressure off other parts of my
game.  I've noticed just in the five tournaments that I've played,
you know, remembering from the last couple years what I would
hit on the par 4s and 5s and it's really made a big difference.


 Q.   Did you ever get the grief on the driving range and,
whatnot, from other players?

 JUSTIN LEONARD:  No, I think they were all encouraging me to
hit the persimmon and I think I figured out why.  I guess I'm
going to have to evaluate a few of my friendships out here.  The
guys that wanted  me to keep hitting the persimmon wood.

 Q.   What club do you think others are going to use on 18
and do you like 18 as a finishing hole?

 JUSTIN LEONARD:  You know, 4-, 5- or 6-iron, I would say.  Unless
we get some kind of big wind. But, yeah, I do like it.  I mean,
would 17 make a better finishing hole?  I don't know.  Because
it's not.  So, you know, 18 is the finishing hole, and -- but,
it's a good hole.  It's a big green, but there's a lot of undulation
in there.  And, you look down there and see all that water and
it can be pretty intimidating.  So, I think we'll have an interesting
finish this year.

 Q.   What is the elevation, the degree and is the length of
the shaft the same that you were using or what is it --

 JUSTIN LEONARD:  No.  The loft is 7 1/2 degrees and because it's
a bigger head, I was able to get a longer shaft and still feel
comfortable.  The original -- actually, when Titleist sent me
the first one, it had a steel shaft that was the same length as
my driver and I set it down and I said this has got to be short
as far as the length.  It was just that the head was bigger so
it  made it feel shorter.  So, I went to a 45 inch shaft, and
with the bigger head, it doesn't feel longer, but obviously, that
extra inch makes a difference.  And, I actually didn't get the
driver until Wednesday at the turn of the Pro Am at the Houston
Open and played with it on Thursday, so -- and, I've been testing
for about two years.  So, I think that kind of tells you about
the driver as soon as I got it.

 Q.   Is there a connection between your U.S. Amateur experience
and the U.S. Amateur setup and what you're seeing here at the
U.S. Open?  And, the second question:  Do you feel like sort of
a carryover or momentum from your win last week?

 JUSTIN LEONARD:  I think, you know, with any USGA Championships,
there's a connection.  Just from the way they set the golf courses
up, the kinds of golf courses we play, it puts a premium on ball-striking
and par.  It makes par a good score, and so I enjoy that style
of play.  I think it suits my game, and you know, just look forward
to the challenge of golf courses like this and Olympic Club and
Pebble Beach and things like that.  So, you know, it's phenomenal
to get to play so many great historical golf courses and see the
conditions we get to play under.  As far as kind of carryover
from last week, I  hope so.  My first tournament win was the Buick
the week before the PGA.  And, so, it's very similar circumstances.
 And, I was able to go on and play well at the PGA that year,
and play well the following week.  So, I hope it carries over.
 And, you know, it's -- I think I've been able this week to, you
know, Monday was kind of a blur, but yesterday, I think I did
a good job of getting another -- I felt real comfortable today
with the golf course.  That's been my main priority the last three
days is getting to know this golf course and yet still have fun
and savor last week.  But once this is over, then, you know, it's
kind of -- I need to go to the range.  I need to hit balls, and,
you know, kind of get back to work.  But, I've enjoyed the last
three days, and at the same time, I feel like I've gotten the
work done that I need to get done.

 Q.   Justin, can you talk a little bit about the 6th hole?
 A couple of guys have said they're going to play it as a par
5 in their minds if they get in the rough.  What are your thoughts
about it and how do you approach it?

 JUSTIN LEONARD:  Well, I mean, any hole you get in the rough,
it turns it into a par 5.  I guess I  hit it in the rough once
today on 13.  I was able to hit the green.  But, I think that
was an exception. You know, if I hit a good drive, if I get it
down there where I feel comfortable with a 3-iron or 1-iron, whatever
I have to hit, then I mean, I guess it is kind of like a short
par 5 and I'm going to go for it.  But, you know, any kind of
funny lie or, you know, if you hit it in the rough, you have to
lay up. I don't think there's anybody that can carry over that
water.  But, I mean even from the fairway, if I don't feel comfortable
with whatever club I have, then I'm just going to punch it down
there, and leave myself with 60-yard pitch shot.  And, I mean,
if I have to do that all four days, I figure I should at least
get two of them up-and-down.  And playing that hole in two pars
and two bogeys, I don't think you're going to lose too much ground.
 So, you know -- but that's just kind of the way you have to look
at that hole.  And, you know, 10 is kind of the same way.  If
things don't feel right, then it's not a hole you can really force
something on.  So, you know, play safe, be patient, and, you know,
hopefully you'll get it back later in the round.

 Q.   Justin, three questions while I've got the  mike here.
 One, you said Monday was a blur.  What exactly did you do to
celebrate your victory that day?

 JUSTIN LEONARD:  Not that kind of a blur.

 Q.   What did you do?

 JUSTIN LEONARD:  Well, I have some friends here, and my agent
-- somebody that worked for him were here with their wives and
two relatives were here, and so we were able to go out and have
a nice evening.  And we didn't stay out too late, didn't get in
any trouble, didn't break any curfews.  But, you know, it was
-- just called my answering machine, and I've got 20 messages,
and called back the next day and had 20 more.  Just relaying all
the stories and returning phone calls and things like that.  Once
I, you know, actually teed off, got on the first hole, then it
was nice thinking about the round a little bit, you know, getting
to see the golf course as it plays, but as far as, you know, off
the golf course, it was just, you know, returning phone calls
and things like that.  I mean, it was a good blur, but it was
just a pretty busy day.

 Q.   A couple of them from your bio here.  How did you get
the nickname Jasper?

 JUSTIN LEONARD:  Who -- Wes, are you in charge of the PGA Tour
book?  Jasper.  This crazy  friend who's been a member and a family
friend at my home course for a long time when I was a kid just
-- he would call me every name other than my real name.  And one
day he called me Jasper, and somebody heard him, and they called
me Jasper, and so, I mean, it's mostly just when I'm at my home
course in Dallas that, you know, but some of the older members
just anything with a "J," I try to answer to.  So, Jason
or whatever, and -- but it's mainly just, you know, a little bit
in Dallas, but mostly at my home course.

 Q.   Now, if that one rattled you, explain how you got on
Cosmo's list of the 25 most eligible bachelors in the world.

 JUSTIN LEONARD:  I have no idea.  I think they were -- they had
a couple other athletes in there, and they were looking for somebody
from golf, I guess, and they started going down the list.  And,
you know, everybody on Tour is married, basically.  And I guess
they got to the Ls and there I was single.  I mean, that's the
only explanation I have.

 Q.   What clubs do you use to come in on 6 and 10?

 JUSTIN LEONARD:  6, I hit a -- I think I hit a 1-iron Monday,
a 4-iron yesterday, and a 3-iron today.  And 10, I hit 4-iron,
3-iron, 4-iron, so, you  know, that's without any hurting wind.
 So, I mean, if 6 got into the wind, and, you know, do you hit
a 3-wood at that green or lay up, you know, just depends on how
I've hit it so far that day and what I feel like doing.

 Q.   At the Kemper Open, you put up probably four of the most
consistent rounds you possibly could have done, three 69s and
a 67 to win.  Is that the key to your game and finding the level
you can play at and just do it in effect four times in a row?

 JUSTIN LEONARD:  I think that's part of it. You know, just being
consistent.  Towards the early part of this year, I wasn't consistent,
not as much as I'd like to be.  But it's gotten better over the
last couple, three months, and really since The Masters, I've
had some good results and felt pretty good about things.  It's
just nice to go out and play well and be in a position to win.

 LES UNGER:  Any others?  Justin, if you come back and sit
here in the next few days, you'll be doing well.

 JUSTIN LEONARD:  I hope so.  Thanks.

 End of FastScripts.....            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT