WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 22, 2010
Justin Leonard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Justin, a 5-under par final round, solid week for you.  
 JUSTIN LEONARD: Yeah. It was a good week and nice to get in the middle of a golf tournament on the back-9 and grab a share of the lead there. Wish I could have hit a better drive there on 18 but still, overall, I'm very pleased with the progress I made this week.  
  
  Q. You know, with all these players going so deep on a Sunday, do you watch the leaderboard?  
 JUSTIN LEONARD: I don't, I really didn't watch the leaderboard much today, especially after my front-9 only shooting 1-under. I was just trying to go out and give myself as many chances as possible.  
 Played really well on the back-9. So, very pleased with that and obviously little disappointed with bogey on last hole but I got a lot of good things going on.  
  
  Q. Overall, you move up almost 30 points in the FedExCup Standings. That helps you secure your position all through The Playoffs.  
 JUSTIN LEONARD: It's a step in the right direction. You know, I don't think we ever feel very secure out here so, you know, you get to a level and there's the next level in front of you.   
 So, you know, I'm going to enjoy getting home tonight and seeing my family and then, you know, it will be a quick trip home because I'll be headed up to New York tomorrow but, you know, like I said, it's a step in the right direction and I just want to keep this play going.  
  
  Q. Great playing. Good look at The Barclays.  
 JUSTIN LEONARD: Thank you.  
  
  Q. Do you walk away from here encouraged or disappointed?  
 JUSTIN LEONARD: Encouraged. I really do. You know, I've had some disappointing Sundays here in the last couple of months and to come out and not get off to a great start and really play that well on the back-9 is very encouraging and to make those putts at 16 -- or 15, 16, 17, I take a lot of positives from this week.   
 Yeah, there's some disappointment in not giving myself much of a chance there at 18 but the good far outweighs the bad this week.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT