WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 20, 2010
Justin Leonard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Justin, what a beautiful round, 63. What were you doing so well today that you maybe weren't doing yesterday?
 JUSTIN LEONARD: Yesterday starting off on the back-9, which is maybe a couple shots tougher than the front in the rain and I missed the fairway, you know, with wet bermuda rough, even at two inches or whatever it is, very difficult, and made a couple bogies and then made the turn knowing I could get a few on the front, was able to do that.
 Today we start on the front-9, got off to a great start and, you know, made some pars and things on the back-9 and the tougher holes which wasn't a problem. Rolled a nice putt at 15 and missed a little short one at 16. You know, those things going to happen out here with the greens and it being late in the day. I'd rather it not happen to me. I'm real pleased with today.

 Q. Do you like playing these aggressive birdie style golf courses or do you like to play a tournament where par is a better score?
 JUSTIN LEONARD: I think we need a good mix on Tour. I know we have that. After playing Firestone and then Whistling Straits last week, it's nice to come here and aim at some flags and make some birdies. I don't think it should be tilted either way. 
 I think we should play the golf course how it was intended to be played, how it was designed to be played and, you know, when the greens are soft like this, you're going to have to make birdies and there's nothing wrong with that. I think the fans are enjoying it this week.

 Q. You have so many Ryder Cup memories. Are you still optimistic that you can catch fire and catch Corey Pavin's eye?
 JUSTIN LEONARD: I catch myself thinking about it and then I squash the idea real quick. You know, I'm just out here trying to capitalize on the confidence that I've gained the last couple weeks in my game and, you know, trying to win a golf tournament. 
 I feel if I win one of these next three events, then I'll be a little closer to his short list but, you know, it's not really something that's motivating me right now.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT