WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 7, 2010
Justin Leonard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. How would you sum up that round, pretty quiet day?
 JUSTIN LEONARD: Yeah, pretty quiet day, hit a lot of fairways, a lot of greens. I didn't hit the ball very close today, so I didn't have a lot of great rolls at it. But you know, happy with -- pretty happy with the way I played, I just didn't make as many birdies today as I have been. But to come out and shoot under par and only lose a shot to what's leading, two back going into tomorrow, I'm in pretty good shape.

 Q. It's going to be a pretty exciting day tomorrow, isn't it, you're right in the mix, a lot to play for?
 JUSTIN LEONARD: Yeah, I'm in the mix, and that's the important thing, just go out and try to do the same thing and make a few more putts.

 Q. Nice to be in the mix and get those competitive juices flowing once again?
 JUSTIN LEONARD: Yeah, it is. It's been a little while. But I like the way my game feels, and it seems like the work that I've put in the last couple months is really starting to pay off.

 Q. Can you put your finger on anything that's sort of clicked this week which has maybe turned things around a little bit?
 JUSTIN LEONARD: It really started last week. A couple months ago I needed to make a few changes swing-wise, and finally starting to feel really comfortable where I don't have to think much about my golf swing on the course, and I think that's a point we're all trying to get to is just kind of focusing on the target and how to get the ball up next to the hole. I've been able to do that the last couple weeks, and it's been very enjoyable.

 Q. Pretty congested leaderboard. There's so much to play for and so much can happen around this course, as well. 
 JUSTIN LEONARD: Yeah, you've seen some low scores, but you've got to play well in order to shoot those. This golf course can still bite you. It should be a fun day tomorrow. 

 Q. Are you still harboring hopes of Ryder Cup or anything like that? You've obviously played plenty of Ryder Cups, but two good weeks could put you into Corey's mind. 
 JUSTIN LEONARD: Yeah, two good weeks, and then with a couple of playoff events, I think I'd probably need to win one of these next four events before he'd pick. But you know, I'm in position to do it tomorrow, and things like the Ryder Cup tend to kind of take care of themselves. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT