THE 145TH OPEN
July 14, 2016
Justin Leonard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What about this afternoon (inaudible).  
JUSTIN LEONARD: Yeah, yeah, got a drive up there where I had just a little 5-iron in and hit it up there, I don't know, about 12 feet or so and made the putt.  So when the wind is down like this, it's a much easier hole.   
 Q.  This morning there was only one birdie in like six hours there.  
JUSTIN LEONARD: No, I mean, I saw where I watched maybe ten minutes of coverage.  I saw where a couple guys were driving it to like 4 and 6 and we weren't able to get there.  But those guys really weren't playing or the coverage I saw I didn't see anything on the back nine yet.  So I'm sure it was probably playing more difficult this morning.   
 Q.  It was pretty intimidating, the low round and a bunch of birdies on the front nine.  
JUSTIN LEONARD: Yeah, when the wind is down like this, the back nine is not nearly as tough as it can be.  It was disappointing I wasn't able to play a little better coming in.  But, you know, tomorrow's going to be a completely different day as far as the weather and everything.  So just have to go get ready for that.   
 Q.  Was it four dropped shots in the last five holes?  
JUSTIN LEONARD: That sounds about right.   
 Q.  Can you talk us through that?  
JUSTIN LEONARD: I'd rather not.  I've already relived it three times.  What's a few more bruises?  So, 14, just pulled a 7-iron into a bad spot on the bunker.   
15, mis-hit a 3-iron short, tried to putt it from whatever, 80, 90 feet.   
Made birdie at 16.   
17, hit a terrible 3-iron left it short.   
18, I actually hit a couple good shots.  It hit soft.  It was right on the front of the green and it's a shot where you've got to get it pin high or so, and I just left it short and had a funky little four-footer.  So just not very good golf.   
 Q.  Generally speaking, how does the course compare?  
JUSTIN LEONARD: It's softer, for sure, but it hasn't changed much over the years.   
 Q.  (Inaudible).  
JUSTIN LEONARD: Yeah, 15, there is a little length.  I'm trying to remember if 18 is a new tee or not.  But, no, it's pretty similar, just not quite as firm.   
 Q.  Six Americans won the last six Opens here.  What do you put that down to?  
JUSTIN LEONARD: I tried to figure that out for 19 years.  I have no answer for you.   
 Q.  Haven't a clue?  
JUSTIN LEONARD: No, no, I don't know why.   
 Q.  And tomorrow, as you said earlier, it's going to blow a gale and the wind coming in.  What's that going to mean?  
JUSTIN LEONARD: Well, just it's going to blow a little different direction.  So the front nine is going to play probably more difficult than it has been.  Probably just a day of patience.   
 Q.  When it comes to your game, I'm sure you don't relish conditions like that.  What's it mean to your game?  I mean, you've got so much experience.  
JUSTIN LEONARD: Yeah, I've played in it a bunch.  So you just try to get through the day, staying as warm and dry as you can and just keep plodding along.   
 Q.  How was it having some former winners today?  
JUSTIN LEONARD: It was fun.  We had a good time.  There are so many great groupings out there.  I don't know if our gallery was any bigger than average at best.  But we had some nice receptions and stuff.  You know, it's just fun to play with those guys and for them to put us all together was pretty cool.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT