THE SHARK SHOOTOUT
December 11, 2009
Justin Leonard
Scott Verplank
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MARK WILLIAMS: Justin Leonard and Scott Verplank, thanks for joining us in the interview room. 6-under 66, and look like you're tied for the lead with the Stricker/Kelly group right now going into the next round. 
 You guys have played a lot of team stuff together. President's Cup, Ryder Cup. I know you played the President's Cup together in some formats, but this modified alternate shot, how different is it just from regular alternate shot? 
 JUSTIN LEONARD: Well, you can certainly play a little more aggressively off the tee. And knowing you're gonna have two chances at the par-3s, you can breathe a little bit easier. 
 But this is certainly, of the three formats we play here, this is the more difficult format. But I think because our games are so similar, we're pretty comfortable playing this format.
 MARK WILLIAMS: You got around the back nine a little bit. That must've been pretty satisfy to go get into that score.
 SCOTT VERPLANK: Yeah, we played well on the back nine. We played good on the front, but then we had a little hiccup on the 9th hole and we pretty much butchered that hole from the get-go. 
 We played good after that. We each made a couple putts on the back nine, and just basically Justin making -- us getting up-and-down on 17 and then Justin making it there from off the fringe on 18, that was a great way to finish. 

 Q. Talk about what were facing on 17 there. 
 SCOTT VERPLANK: Well, just -- I had to drop it in the pine straw, because I was already in the pine straw. I had a difficult time -- well, not off the pine straw, but the grass a pretty grainy around the greens. 
 So in the pine straw, I was either gonna hit like a 7-iron or a 6-iron or just a putter. You know, lie was fine. Grass is so firm and it's cut so low around the greens that I had more confidence in just whacking at it with a putter. 
 To be honest with you, I was just wanting to get in really anywhere on the green. But if I hit a decent shot I would be thrilled , and it ended up being, you know, really good. 

 Q. Coming in, did you guys kind of feel like unfinished business from the good teaming that you guys had last time you were here?
 SCOTT VERPLANK: Well, I'm not thinking that. Maybe he is. (Laughter.) No, we've played together in team stuff and we've played together in this. 
 Like he said, we're very comfortable with what the other one is gonna do. That makes it -- takes a lot of the stress away. We play pretty stress-free together.
 Yeah, we'd love to keep getting better and see if we can win one of these deals.

 Q. Is that something you put behind you and you don't worry about close calls, past events kind of a thing?
 JUSTIN LEONARD: No, I think you try and use it as a positive. You know, we came close and had a great time, but we've got a lot other matches and weeks that we can pull on that we play together for positive experience. 
 You know, like Scott said, it's fun to play in this event with a friend like Scott, and especially with -- you know, we have such similar games it makes it pretty easy to play together. 

 Q. Can you give us the birdies you had? 
 JUSTIN LEONARD: 1, Scott made about a 15-footer.
 SCOTT VERPLANK: Uh-huh.
 JUSTIN LEONARD: 5, I made a 15-footer.
 6, I made a 7-footer.
 SCOTT VERPLANK: Well, 9 we doubled.
 JUSTIN LEONARD: 9, that was a 50/50 double bogey right there. (Laughter.) 
 10, Scott hit a great wedge to three feet.
 13, I hit a decent wedge to ten feet, and Scott made that putt. 
 SCOTT VERPLANK: 14, chipped it up about a foot from the hole.
 17, I got it out of pine straw about a foot from the hole, and then Justin made it about 15, 18 feet or whatever on the last hole. 
 We kind of did what we were hoping to do, really. I mean, it was actually a pretty tough day. The golf course I think is built for the other wind, and some of the holes that are generally playable were a little more difficult today, and kind of visa versa. 
 But it was pretty tough. Obviously scores aren't that low.

 Q. I was gonna ask that. When you were out there and the wind was blowing, were you surprised at the scores? 
 SCOTT VERPLANK: Not really. I mean, the greens have gotten firm and fast you all of a sudden. With the wind blowing as fast it is it was, we had a few putts get away from us just -- well, I mean, one in particular, but... (laughter.)
 No, even Nick and Zach, you know, they were playing, and there were some really fast putts. Hadn't been that way up until today.
 So with the wind blowing and drying it out, makes it pretty stuff.

 Q. The way Steve and Jerry were going early, were you worried with this format? You don't ever want to fall too far behind early.
 JUSTIN LEONARD: Yeah, it's hard to make up a whole lot ground the next two days. You can make up a little bit, but it's important here to get off to a good start. 
 You know, we played solid all day except for one hole. That hole didn't hurt us too badly, so put ourself in good shape. Now it's time to get really aggressive and go make a bunch of birdies this weekend.

 Q. Can you both comment on Steve Stricker, how he's emerged? He's obviously a pretty good team player. Could you just speak to what's happening in Steve's game?
 JUSTIN LEONARD: I mean, it's just -- he's always been is fantastic putter, one of the best putters on TOUR. If anything, early in his career, even when he was playing well, driving the ball wasn't a real strength of his. 
 And now he's turned that into a huge strength. He hits it with plenty of length, very accurate, you know, he's turned into a marvelous ball striker. 
 He's maintained his strength of putting. Any time you can do that, you have that many things working in your game, you're gonna win some golf tournaments. 

 Q. Anything to add? 
 SCOTT VERPLANK: Well, I mean, he did all the technical stuff. I think Steve, he's just -- and because of doing all that stuff Justin said, he's regained his confidence. 
 Steve has been a good player for a long time. I'm actually pretty good friends with him, and you can tell when he's playing good now. He's a lot more carefree and just letting it happen versus maybe struggling through some times. 
 He's a talented guy. Day in and day out, he's pretty doggone good. 

 Q. Kelly/Stricker, that's an odd couple there, right? Can you give us a feel for maybe how tough that might be?
 SCOTT VERPLANK: Well, I think they're close friends. They live in Madison. 

 Q. But the personalities...
 SCOTT VERPLANK: Well... 
 JUSTIN LEONARD: Nobody has a personality like Jerry. 
 SCOTT VERPLANK: And like I said, Strick and I are pretty good friends, so obviously he can get along with anybody. They're a good team together. We've played with both of them a number of times. They're good. I think comfort has a lot to do with it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT