CHILDREN'S MIRACLE NETWORK CLASSIC
November 13, 2009
Justin Leonard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MARK STEVENS: I'd like to welcome Justin Leonard to the interview room. Congratulations on a nice round today. If you'd start off, talk a little bit about your round and then we'll go ahead and take some questions.
 JUSTIN LEONARD: Got off to a great start this morning, hit a 4-iron into the 10th green about 12 feet and made that, then birdied the next three holes to get to 4-under.
 Bogeyed the 14th hole, the par-5 and then came back and birdied the 15th. And hit the ball very well. I did make three bogeys today, a couple three-putts from kind of long range, but each time I came back and birdied the next hole to kind of get some momentum going back in my direction, and it was a fun round of golf.
 Tom Pernice, who I played with, played a great round as well, so we were out there just kind of feeding off each other.
 MARK STEVENS: Okay. Thank you. Questions?
 
 Q. Justin, when you shoot a 64, you don't usually have three bogeys. Can you kind of describe, was it kind of a whacky round there a little bit, more ups than downs, I guess?
 JUSTIN LEONARD: Yeah, playing in wind like this, sometimes it's hard to judge, and I misjudged today a couple of cross-winds, and subsequently I had a couple of 40- or 50-footers that I wasn't able to get, wasn't able to two-putt.
 But on the flip side of that, I came back and birdied the next hole each time. Hit a lot of great shots. And you know, but on a day like this, you're going to have some long putts, and so I guess if there's something I need to work on, that's probably it for tomorrow.
 
 Q. There's been a lot of low numbers being put up a little more today. Do you think that score's going to hold?
 JUSTIN LEONARD: You know, it doesn't really matter to me. I want to be leading after four rounds. It's just -- it's nice to put myself in position going into the weekend, and tomorrow's round will kind of set up Sunday's final round, so I'm looking forward to tomorrow and the challenge of putting myself in good position in order to go into the last round and try and win the golf tournament.
 
 Q. Justin, I was going to ask you what you know about Rickie Fowler. Obviously he's gotten some attention this week or what have you and he's out there playing very well. What do you know about him?
 JUSTIN LEONARD: I played with him the third round in Scottsdale at the Frys Open, and you know, he's got a very solid game, hits the ball a good way, has a great short game, makes a lot of putts. I mean that's a great combination, and he's got a lot of confidence right now in the way he's playing, as well he should.
 And you know, it's fun to see a young player like that come right out of college and do so well. You know, he certainly has the kind of the pedigree to be playing the way he's playing.
 
 Q. Mr. Leonard, what was it that you had that kept you going and kept you in it today?
 JUSTIN LEONARD: You know, I just gave myself a lot of chances. Other than a couple of shots that we talked about earlier where I made bogeys, I was able to hit the ball pin high a lot, which is really important when you're playing in windy conditions.
 You know, I had a lot of makeable putts, and so there wasn't -- I didn't put a whole lot of pressure on my game today.
 You know, any time we can -- or I can come out and do that and play a nice relaxed round where there's not a lot of pressure, I'm giving myself a lot of chances, it just makes the game easier. Good question.
 MARK STEVENS: Any last questions?







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT