FRYS.COM OPEN
October 23, 2009
Justin Leonard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOHN BUSH: We'd like to welcome Justin Leonard into the interview room here at the Frys.com Open. 6-under par, 64, 9-under par through two rounds. Five birdies in your first seven holes there. A great start and a great round. If we can just get your comments. 
 JUSTIN LEONARD: Thank you, yeah. It was nice to get off to a good start. I gave myself a lot of chances today. Was able to two-putt 11 from, I don't know, 60 feet or something for birdie. Then made about a 50-footer at 13, the par-3. And then hit it reasonably close the next three holes to give myself chances.
 It's something I kind of did all day, just give myself good chances. And if I missed a green, except for 18, was able to chip the ball that close. 
 JOHN BUSH: Thank you. We'll go right into questions. 

 Q. Are you here because you need to be here or are you here because you just like Phoenix? 
 JUSTIN LEONARD: It's kind of a combination. I do like Phoenix. Played here two years ago and enjoyed the golf course and had a nice week. 
 I think the fact that I had three weeks off after the playoffs and to really get rested up is another reason I'm here. 
 Also, in those three weeks, I was -- I spent some time analyzing the year and working on a few things, you know, towards next year. I like the way things are going so far this week. 

 Q. Are you trying to get to the top 30 or anything like that. Do you look at this tournament as a good chance to win and make a move on the Money List? 
 JUSTIN LEONARD: Yeah, it's a chance to come here and try and win a golf tournament. Would love to play Kapalua next year. That's always a great way to start the year. 
 You know, love to get in the top 30 and improve my world ranking position and all those things. But first and foremost, come here and get myself in position, which I've done through two rounds, and just continue the progress that I'm making. 

 Q. What were some of the things that you were trying to work on that you came up with when you were analyzing the season? 
 JUSTIN LEONARD: It seems like this year, the weeks when I was playing well, I didn't really take advantage of that. You know, I mean putting myself in contention. 
 I had a few top 10s, but I don't think anything was in the top 5. So some of those weeks I was playing really well, but never really quite got myself in the mix to try and win the tournament. 
 So working on that this week. Just knowing that coming in here I've put the work in, and my game feels very comfortable. Trying to take advantage of that. Playing a little more aggressive when I'm able to, and just trust that what I'm doing is working well. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 JUSTIN LEONARD: Yeah, in spots. In spots I was. In some others, you know, I was a little more conservative. It's nice to come out and hit the ball well and hit a lot of greens to where I don't feel like I have to make every putt. 
 So, you know, some of those holes, some of those greens, 20, 25 feet is a pretty reasonable shot and you got a chance at making that putt. 

 Q. You're a guy who's experienced the valley a lot of different ways. In '96 against Mickelson. This tournament is so much different than the FBR Open. Do you enjoy this one more, or do you like the raucousness of the FBR a little more? 
 JUSTIN LEONARD: I wouldn't say I enjoy either of them more than the other. I like them both for what they are. This is certainly a more low-key event. 
 You know, obviously the weather is perfect. The golf course is in great shape. When you come here for the tournament, the TPC, it's a totally different feel. You know, the energy that there is there, the crowd is very into it, and provides an energy for the players that we don't see anywhere else.
 So like both events. It would be strange to play these back-to-back, but the fact that they're separated by a few months, I like both of them. 
 JOHN BUSH: Instead of going through the whole card you birdied all four of the par-3s. Let's go through those, starting with 13.
 JUSTIN LEONARD: 13, I pulled a 5-iron about 50 feet left of the hole and was able to power that in.
 16 I hit a -- I think it was a 5-iron to about, I don't know, 12 feet or so. 
 Then the 5th hole I hit another 5-iron to about 12 feet. 
 8, I hit a 7-iron about 12 feet or so. 
 JOHN BUSH: Already. Anything else? Justin, great play. Thanks for coming by.
 JUSTIN LEONARD: Thanks. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT