THE PRESIDENTS CUP
October 7, 2009
Justin Leonard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Fun to be back?
 JUSTIN LEONARD: It is fun to be back. I really enjoyed playing The Ryder Cup last year, and to be back here playing, you know, it's fun. It's a fun week. It's amazing out here hanging out with everybody, and not just the guys, but the wives and getting to know everybody a little bit better. You know, it's a lot of fun but I think we are all ready for that first tee time tomorrow. 

 Q. What is it that you think you bring to these type of events? 
 JUSTIN LEONARD: I don't know. Probably something a little bit in the middle. You know, I'm not a huge rah-rah guy. I think when the captains or Fred asks me about pairings, I'm honest about what I think would work, not only for me but for other guys, because we have all played a lot of golf together. But I may be take a little bit more of a cerebral approach. 

 Q. As someone who played last year in The Ryder Cup and this year in The Presidents Cup, last year the Playoffs for the FedExCup preceded The Ryder Cup; will that help you as you go forward in these events?
 JUSTIN LEONARD: I think having the guys play some big events close to it, I think it does help, and I think it showed a lot last year. You know, as a whole, everybody played so well, because you did have this big event that you were getting ready for, and The Ryder Cup was right in the middle of that. 
 I think this week, it's very similar, because guys had the Playoff events and stayed in touch with the game and had a week off here and there. It's the same thing for the International Team. 
 You know, I think everybody is here, ready to play, and looking forward to the off-season but certainly not looking past Sunday. 

 Q. Some nuances in the design, just wondering of the two Cup competitions, if you have a favorite thing about this one. 
 JUSTIN LEONARD: Yeah, I think --

 Q. (Inaudible. 
 JUSTIN LEONARD: Stop because that's exactly what I was going to say. I think this event is a little bit more fan friendly. Everybody gets a chance to play at least four matches, and I think it shows kind of the depth of the teams a little bit better. I think having just one match Thursday and Friday, it just becomes a little bit more fan friendly. The matches are a little bit more spread out, there are six instead of four in the team matches, and I think we as players, I know I'm looking forward to sleeping in tomorrow, even though we are on the West Coast and that's not going to happen versus getting up at 5:00 AM and knowing that you have to go for 12 hours. It's certainly easier to do that one day. 

 Q. Knowing you're going to go out and play the first couple of days -- (Inaudible.)
 JUSTIN LEONARD: You certainly --

 Q. Nothing gets lost in the morning session, from a media standpoint and fan standpoint --
 JUSTIN LEONARD: Inaudible. Yeah, you certainly have to change gears pretty quick and we will do that on Saturday obviously. 
 But knowing you're going to be playing these first two days, knowing the format, knowing you're going to have time to change gears to the other format, it's this week moves at a nice pace. 

 Q. In the context of the balance of fun versus responsibility, the honor of being on a Presidents Cup team, and as much fun as you guys tend to have, where does the good golf land between what's important, obviously, is to win, but also buoyed by the fact that you guys are out here having maybe the best time of the season in terms of just being relaxed and having fun. 
 JUSTIN LEONARD: Well, it is, but this time of year, guys have been pounding balls and I alluded to earlier, with the Playoffs just having ended, everybody's game is in pretty good shape. It's really good coming here and getting to know the golf course and finding the best partner or the best pairings for everybody. 
 So while I'm going to go practice after this, I know a number of guys are going to, but this time of year, it's almost better -- inaudible --

 Q. (Inaudible?) 
 JUSTIN LEONARD: Once we get down to playing the event, it doesn't matter who we are playing. It's still, you know, you're part of a team, and you want to hold up your end and do what you can for your other 11 teammates and captain and everything. 

 Q. And you and Hunter, have you heard that you look like brothers or cousins? 
 JUSTIN LEONARD: Never heard that. Never have. 

 Q. For this to be more competitive they say the Internationals have to make a run at it, don't know whether that's fair, you've been involved in one of the most competitive Ryder Cups at Brookline, is that something that could put it over the top or something you want to avoid? 
 JUSTIN LEONARD: I know what you're saying. I think it's important that the matches are very competitive. And I have no reason why they are not, other than the fact that maybe because we get to play this format every year. You know, I think it's certainly a little easier to bring 12 Americans together than it is, you know, guys from all the other countries. Yeah, we play the same tour, but it's a little different. 
 So Greg Norman's job is probably a little more difficult in bringing those guys together, and only playing the format every two years. I don't know if it's important that they win, but I think that I haven't seen any signs of, you know, tension or -- what am I trying to say, or this event in any kind of decline, because we have won the last three or four years. 
 I mean, I think you know, because of that, knowing that history, I think makes the International side probably try a little bit harder, if that's possible, and I think we need to play as well as we can to make sure -- but I don't think that they need to win a couple in order to elevate this event. I think this event has grown and is beyond needing certain kind of results to elevate it. 

 Q. (Inaudible.) 
 JUSTIN LEONARD: We'll see if that happens -- inaudible -- don't think that they need to win a couple in order to elevate this event. I think this event has grown and is beyond needing a certain kind of results to elevate it? 

 Q. Are you and Hunter on board if Freddie puts you guys together? 
 JUSTIN LEONARD: Well, we would be very on board, and we'll see if that happens. 

 Q. What was your caddie number, 44, Giants jersey? 
 JUSTIN LEONARD: Yeah, Willie McCovey, I believe. .







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT