DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 5, 2009
Justin Leonard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You didn't get off to the start today that you wanted, but boy, you really brought it back nicely.   
 JUSTIN LEONARD: Yeah, I got off to a terrible start, three-putted 11 and 13 and then bogeyed 14. And then kind of settled down a little bit, hit a couple good shots.   
 Hit a good shot into 17, didn't make the putt. Then hit a great shot into 18, had about six feet for eagle and couldn't shake that one in.  
 And then played really nice on the front nine.  
  
  Q. I noticed your poor shots today you were leaving them out a little bit to the right. What was going on there?  
 JUSTIN LEONARD: Yeah, you know, my transition and everything wasn't quite as smooth and I wanted it to be today. Sometimes my tendency is to get a little quick. I'm going to go hit a few balls and work on that very thing. Thanks for reminding me.  
  
  Q. You hit some awfully good iron shots, though. How about that one into 5?  
 JUSTIN LEONARD: Yeah, it was fortunate for that ball to stay short of the bunker. I had a good number to just land it into the hill and kind of chase it up there. It was nice that it broke about eight feet to the left and got in there nice and cozy.   
  
  Q. You're in contention going into the weekend. It's probably what your goal was starting the week.   
 JUSTIN LEONARD: It's nice. I felt like I played pretty well last week, didn't get a whole lot out of my game, and so far through two days here, I've played pretty good, but I've gotten some good scores out of it.  
 I would love to hit the ball a little bit better this weekend and continue making putts.  
  
  Q. You're putting well; you just want to keep that momentum going into the weekend. What would you adjust in the swing, if anything?  
 JUSTIN LEONARD: No real adjustments. Just I'm hitting a couple loose shots here and there, but I'm hitting a lot of good shots. I had a few tap-ins today, which is nice. The greens are getting a little firmer, so it was a little harder to get the ball close to the hole. Just tighten things up a little bit, hit a few more good ones and a few less bad ones.  
  
  Q. A lot of attention is going towards this Nike campaign with the logos. When did it start and how were you aware of it?  
 JUSTIN LEONARD: They let us know about a month ago that they wanted -- because today is kind of opening Saturday of college football, and they wanted all the guys to wear their school colors, and of course we're all for it. Most of us would do it every day of the week if we could. It was fun, attracted some attention out there, and we're just all supporting our teams.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT