THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2009
Justin Leonard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Can you give us your thoughts, please?
 JUSTIN LEONARD: I played really well today. Ernie and I were making some birdies and kind of feeding off each other a little bit. 
 Disappointed at 16, a bit of a bad break not to have any kind of lie over there, but all in all very pleased with the way I've played this week.

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 JUSTIN LEONARD: Yeah, I think a little bit of luck and a couple of better bounces, it could have been my week. But I'm still really pleased with the way I played.

 Q. Did you have a number in mind when you teed off this morning? 
 JUSTIN LEONARD: You know, it felt like I needed to get it to maybe 1-under par, possibly 2, knowing that was going to be very difficult to do. So, you know, I'm just going to take my shoes off and enjoy watching the rest of the day.

 Q. Are you pleased with your performance this week? 
 JUSTIN LEONARD: Yeah, yeah, I played well. And coming off a stretch where I haven't played as well and made a few changes last week in my swing, and all the changes worked beautifully this week.

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 JUSTIN LEONARD: Yeah, I feel like I can. And I think I proved it a little bit this week, and I love coming over here to play. I always come over a couple of days early just to soak it all in and get used to the weather and how firm the golf course is. And I just -- I love the type of shots that you have to play in an Open.

 Q. Is St. Andrews a course you like? 
 JUSTIN LEONARD: Yeah, I do like it, so I'm looking forward to next year.

 Q. Obviously we don't know the outcome yet but what are your thoughts on the way Tom Watson is playing? 
 JUSTIN LEONARD: I think it's great. I think he may be a little bit inspired by how Greg played last year, and, I mean, you know, he's the king of links golf as far as Americans are concerned and maybe throughout the world, as many Open Championships that he's won as well as Senior Opens. So it's great to see him come over here, and, you know, it would be nice to see him add a few more years to his exemption. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT