VALERO TEXAS OPEN
May 17, 2009
Justin Leonard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Looked like you didn't quite get off to the start you wanted and you managed to play back-to back. How do you see your performance today?  
 JUSTIN LEONARD: I didn't make enough putts. There were good putts, and not too many would I change much about. Just hit the ball well. I just didn't make the putts today.  
  
  Q. Overall where do you see your game and your performance going forward with the adjustments you've made this year?  
 JUSTIN LEONARD: Getting there. Getting there. We have a couple good weeks coming up and then a week off getting ready for the U.S. Open.   
 So this is a fun stretch of golf right now, and it's nice to be playing well. I'd love to have shot a couple shots lower this week, but it wasn't in the cards. And I'll do a little work Tuesday and Wednesday and get ready for the next week.  
  
  Q. If Zach ends up being the winner, what did you see from him this week?  
 JUSTIN LEONARD: You know, he hung in there. And I know there were some low scores, but the golf course plays a lot harder with this wind. All the long holes are in the wind. So he played well.   
  
  Q. Tough out there. Being a three-time winner, I think a lot of people thought coming in here that you'd make a charge. And you were right there. Was it the wind today or just didn't make enough putts?  
 JUSTIN LEONARD: I just didn't make enough putts. I mean, you know, the putt I hit at 17 for par was a right-edge putt. I hit it right edge and it just wiggled to the right somehow, and then hit a great putt there at 18. That's kind of been the story the last three days. Hit the ball well enough, but didn't hit a lot of good putts.   
  
  Q. Is it nice to see the ovation you got coming up on 18?  
 JUSTIN LEONARD: Yeah. It was nice. Yeah. It was fun, fun playing the last group. And had a chance to win. Just a little disappointed I didn't get it done today.  
  
  Q. You had a sweep of pars there for a while. That must have been frustrating on the front nine with three in a row.   
 JUSTIN LEONARD: Well, it was. But you know, I'm in the twelfth fairway. I'm even par for the day and I'm only two shots out of the lead. So I didn't hurt myself too much, and you know, still had a chance to win and just needed to make some more putts.  
  
  Q. Okay. Thanks a bunch, Justin.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT