VALERO TEXAS OPEN
May 15, 2009
Justin Leonard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DOUG MILNE: All right. Justin Leonard, thanks for joining us yet again here in the media center after the Round 2 of the Valero Texas Open. 2-under, 68 today, enough to keep at the top of the leaderboard.
 JUSTIN LEONARD: It's going to be short-lived.
 DOUG MILNE: Whether or not it holds up, you are nonetheless still up top. Just a few opening comments about the round today and how you're feeling heading into the weekend.
 JUSTIN LEONARD: Played pretty solid today. Hit a couple good shots, and had some opportunities, just wasn't able to get the ball in the hole. 
 Had a lot of good putts that looked awfully good with a foot or two left, and just didn't make as many putts, and a couple of good shots was the only difference between yesterday and today. 
 So feel pretty good about where I am. I don't think I'm going to hold the lead, but not real concerned about that right now.
 DOUG MILNE: Okay. Some questions? 

 Q. Number 7 was one of those good shots. I guess you kind of yanked it. That hole's always been an adventure for everybody, roller coaster hole. 
 JUSTIN LEONARD: Yeah. It's an uncomfortable tee shot, hitting at such an elevation, and you know, trying to be real specific with what I was doing, but just made a bad swing. And you know, when you're going straight in the wind like that, if the ball gets turned, it exaggerates the amount of turn.

 Q. I guess there's some days when you really want to kind of tread water certainly out here, at least just try and stay under par and be consistent. You know that that's a score that may not hold up because everybody's going to be assaulting the flags and everything, but when you say you're happy where you are, is it because your game plan is trying to just stay in?
 JUSTIN LEONARD: No. I'm not treading water. I'm trying to make as many birdies as I can, but do it patiently. 
 You know, today I hit the ball very well, and like I said, if a few of the putts that hit the hole or grazed the edges go in, I'm going to shoot a better score. So just work on tightening up a couple of those loose shots and play better ball. 

 Q. Did the course play markedly different in the morning today than it did yesterday?
 JUSTIN LEONARD: No, not really.

 Q. Is there something about the course that sets up especially well for you, this being the last year here, that you might get to capitalize on this weekend?
 JUSTIN LEONARD: I get to answer that question a lot, don't I? 

 Q. If you've answered it --
 JUSTIN LEONARD: No, that's fine. I don't know. You know, I feel comfortable with it. I've had success here in the past. 
 With the windy conditions you've gotta kind of move the ball around a little bit to get to some of the pins, and you know, I usually putt pretty well here. So you know, all those things added together, you know, I've always felt comfortable on this golf course. 

 Q. If you wouldn't mind just real quick running us through your birdies, 3, 5, 14, 15 and give us descriptions of clubs. 
 JUSTIN LEONARD: 3, hit a 5-iron to about eight feet. 5, hit a 9-iron, about 15 feet. 
 DOUG MILNE: Wedge at 15.
 JUSTIN LEONARD: 14, drove it left and chipped out, hit a wedge to about two feet. 15, hit an 8-iron about 10 feet. 
 DOUG MILNE: All right. Justin. Once again, thanks for coming in. Best of luck this weekend. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT