SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 3, 2009
Justin Leonard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Justin, four birdies and a bogey. Quite an accomplishment on this track with the severe conditions you faced in the opening half of your round.  
 JUSTIN LEONARD: Yeah. It was -- yesterday was pretty brutal and to get around without making a bogey. I made a couple nice two putts from long range and was able to make a couple birdies and came out this morning, it was cold and the wind was blowing a little bit, but here in the last few holes, it's really let up.   
 So nice to get it in, get a good round in and, you know, these guys have pretty good conditions here for their two rounds.  
 So you know, looking forward to coming out tomorrow.  
  
  Q. You started on 10, you're on 18 tee right as the horn blows, so you have to start your round on Friday with one of the harder shots on the entire golf course.  
 JUSTIN LEONARD: Yeah. But it was a lot easier this morning than it would have been yesterday with the wind blowing 35 off the water. Today the wind was kind of right to left so I could aim at the bunker and turn it. You know, nice -- yeah, it was certainly a little easier to play this morning.  
  
  Q. You're such a good wind player. Are you happy to see the conditions calm down?  
 JUSTIN LEONARD: Yeah. It was mental for everybody involved, and I certainly enjoyed the challenge of it, but once you got the ball on the green, you know, hard to control it. And the golf course is good, and if the weather is perfect like this, time to make many more birdies.  
  
  Q. How receptive were the greens?  
 JUSTIN LEONARD: Very receptive. Not really soft, but, you know, there's still some moisture in them this morning and they're still plenty quick.  
  
  Q. Justin, bogey-free over two days. Quite a difference this morning. How do you think that's going to hold up in the afternoon?  
 JUSTIN LEONARD: Well, I mean scoring conditions, they're better now than when we teed off this morning. Those guys get to play a lot of golf today. The greens are perfect. I wouldn't think it's going to hold up too long, but, you know, I played a nice first round, something to build on, and I'll have a nice afternoon.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT