SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 3, 2009
Justin Leonard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Played good.
 JUSTIN LEONARD: Thank you.

 Q. Let me ask a question. Just lob it out, just how you played today and just the craziness of having to come back out, you know, after yesterday.
 JUSTIN LEONARD: Yeah. Yesterday was obviously very challenging, but it got to the point -- you know, I had two different balls move on the green. Fortunately I hadn't addressed them yet, so there wasn't any penalty. One of them rolled 10 feet, totally changed my putt. 
 Then we got to 18th tee, and looking at that hole with a 30-mile-an-hour left-to-right wind, have to start it out in the water just to find the fairway and came out this morning, and it was very cold, but at least the wind was off to the right. It made the hole play a lot easier. It kind of was blowing a little bit this morning during the first part of our round. In the last hour or so, it really kind of died down.
 You know, the guys that are playing, you know, about to tee off the first round and playing this afternoon, they're going to have some beautiful conditions today and -- but I think the weather is going to be more like this the rest of the weekend. Happy to shoot a good round and try and kill an afternoon. It's strange to come out here and play nine holes this early and not have anything to do the rest of the day. But, nice to get off to a good start. I'm looking forward to tomorrow.

 Q. You finished, you -- even with the putt you had to make to get you 2-under, birdied two of the last three holes. You were playing in the wind. Kind of picked up where you left off. In a lot of ways the momentum.
 JUSTIN LEONARD: Yes. I hit the ball really solid yesterday. Made a couple nice lengthy two putts and then was able to birdie 15, the par 5 and make a good birdie at 17, and then today just played real solid. I hit the ball well, just missed a couple greens, but I made a couple nice par saves and was able to throw a couple birdies in there.

 Q. Anything spectacular today?
 JUSTIN LEONARD: Well, at 2 I hit it in the front right bunker and didn't hit a great bunker shot. It flew into the flag and -- or hit the pin and, you know, went about 10 feet left of the hole and I made that putt. So kind of got away with somewhat of a poor shot there. You know, no, not really.

 Q. It's been awhile since you've done anything like yesterday, or do you remember the last time when there were heavy winds like this?
 JUSTIN LEONARD: I had forgotten about Hilton Head a couple years ago.

 Q. Two years ago.
 JUSTIN LEONARD: We were on 17, and it was blowing so hard you couldn't -- they couldn't move the tees far enough up on the par 3 to where we could get there and so -- then I remember we had a wind delay in Phoenix three, four years ago. 
 So it happens from time to time. When you're getting greens as fast as we putt on out here, you know, you get that much wind and you're going to run into some issues, and the Tour made a good call. It's perfect today.

 Q. You've had a really good first round here. How do you carry it to the weekend?
 JUSTIN LEONARD: I feel like the last couple years -- actually, I was playing pretty well coming in. The year before that I was as surprised as anybody that I played so well the first round, and now I feel like I'm playing more consistently week to week and day-to-day and, so, you know, it's a good start. I'm looking forward to building on it.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT