QUICKEN LOANS NATIONAL
July 30, 2015
Justin Leonard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Justin, 7-under.  What was the key to the round?  Seemed to be really rolling the ball well today on the greens.JUSTIN LEONARD: Did everything well.  Drove the ball in the fairway, hit a lot of good iron shots.  Couple greens that I missed I was able to get up and down except for the last hole and, you know, but when I had opportunities to score and make birdies I took advantage of them.Q. Soft conditions help that with the greens being a little softer out there?JUSTIN LEONARD: Yeah.  You got to worry about the ball coming back.  I don't because I don't have a lot of wedges into these holes.  So, you know, the golf course is soft and it's there for us right now.Q. Justin, did the delay mess you up any going back out there or just the only bogey on the day on the last hole?JUSTIN LEONARD: I mean, you know, no.  You know, just wish I would have had a better tee shot.  But, you know, it is what it is.Q. I know a tough season for you up to this point but a couple positive signs here over last few weeks.  Just talk a little bit about the state of your game.JUSTIN LEONARD: Yeah.  Played okay at the Greenbrier and last week was an okay week and, you know, just -- yeah, you know, hadn't been a great year by any stretch.  So, you know, but I'm just -- I'm here and I'm happy to be here on a course I've got some fun memories running around here with a bunch of guys and so, you know, it seemed to payoff today.Q. Take us back to this golf course back ten years ago, I guess it was, and the memories of that.JUSTIN LEONARD: It's great to be back.  Obviously it's a completely different format, everything, but just, you know, lot of good memories around this place and, you know, watching Chris DiMarco Marco make a putt over there on -- well, now 2, and then, you know, remember the putt that Freddie made in '96 I think on 17.  So, fun being back around here.Q. And Retief, obviously also the top of the leaderboard, is there an advantage you guys think you have being a little familiar with this at all or totally just random?JUSTIN LEONARD: The course is right there for you.  I don't think there's any advantage to, you know, to play a match play tournament here ten years ago.Q. Any birdies that stand out today, eight, overall?JUSTIN LEONARD: You know, they're all special for me, you know.  Probably the last birdie I made at 6, I drove it right in the fairway bunker and hit it about 35 feet and a putt I'm really trying to two-putt and happened to go in.  It was fun.Q. Early on the week this course seemed like something that set-up well for you.JUSTIN LEONARD: No.  No.  It's a little soft and a little long for me, you know, but I seem to handle it okay today.  It's probably not going to get any firmer but, you know, the greens are rolling well this morning. You know, they're probably going to be a little marked-up this afternoon.  I would assume they would be the same way tomorrow afternoon.  But, you know, it was a fun day and I'm going to enjoy and try to build on it.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT