WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
July 31, 2008
Justin Leonard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. 2-under 68 today. Are you happy?  
 JUSTIN LEONARD: Yeah, I am happy. I played very solid today, two birdies, no bogeys, pretty stress-free round, made a couple nice up-and-downs in the first few holes. But after that, hit it real solid most of the day.  
  
  Q. When you practiced this week, when you prepared for this golf tournament, did the golf course play the way you expected it to?   
 JUSTIN LEONARD: Yeah, I would say so. It's nice to see the way it's set up this week as compared to last year. I thought last year -- I think everybody probably thought that the rough was a little too penal for a golf course of this length. You know, the rough has actually grown a little bit since Tuesday. But it's a little softer today, so I'd like to see it kind of firm up the rest of the week.  
  
  Q. What's your mindset going into round 2?  
 JUSTIN LEONARD: Just try and build on what I did today. You know, it's too early to really think a whole lot about it, so just try to continue to play solid and make a birdie here or there and get myself in position going into the weekend.   
  
  Q. A lot of big events kind of really pile up on top of each other. Is that something you enjoy, just kind of being focused on at the end of the season with a lot of energy, or is it getting to be a big grind?  
 JUSTIN LEONARD: No, it's just the first week of it, so it feels good right now, but I'm looking forward to this stretch. Unlike last year when I had to play a lot just to get in the playoffs, by the time I got to the two events I played in, I was so tired, I didn't have much of a chance to play very well.   
 You know, I played in one tournament out of the last four weeks coming into this week, and with that thought in mind, of being rested to get into this stretch and start playing well this week and build on it for next week and then on through the playoffs.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT