EDS BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
April 25, 2008
Justin Leonard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You play well in Texas, and you have a good tournament going. 
 JUSTIN LEONARD: Yeah, I played pretty solid yesterday, just came back and today played really solid. I made some nice putts when I needed to and had a couple of easy ones, as well.

 Q. You almost holed out from the fairway at No. 4, converted that for birdie, and then I really thought you hit a great approach into 8. 
 JUSTIN LEONARD: Yeah, I hit a pretty bad drive over there in the left trees and kind of thought I'd try to hit it up to get it on the green. My caddie Brian talked me into it, and it came off great.

 Q. How is the course playing? Is it easier today? It still seems gusty. 
 JUSTIN LEONARD: Yeah, it's still pretty breezy. The pins might have been a little easier today, but the greens are still really firm. It's still hard to get the ball close to the hole. 

 Q. You were the Valero Texas Open winner last fall. You could do the Texas two-step and win this one, too?
 JUSTIN LEONARD: I'm just glad I got myself back going into this weekend and giving myself a good chance. 

 Q. Certainly a great threesome with Justin Leonard, Adam Scott and Sergio Garcia. You got the better of them today. Nice round. 
 JUSTIN LEONARD: It was fun playing with those guys. I always get pretty good support here in Dallas, but this was probably the biggest gallery I've played in front of, at least the first two days.

 Q. We talked earlier this week about how well you've been playing this year. You've done everything but win, so this would work out well, wouldn't it?
 JUSTIN LEONARD: Yeah, I'm getting there. I'm certainly heading in the right direction. I'm doing a lot of nice things, and it's just a matter of kind of tightening things up here and there and trying to get one.

 Q. Being a local guy, being a Texas guy, obviously growing up idolizing Byron Nelson, what would it mean to win this thing? It meant so much to Scott last year. 
 JUSTIN LEONARD: Yeah, it would. His presence is felt by all the players, and I think especially the guys who kind of grew up in this area. Scott was deservedly emotional last year, and I'm sure if I can do the same thing at some point, I will be the same way. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT