WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 20, 2008
Justin Leonard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Obviously it's the first round, but is it harder almost to get a win in the first round and get that monkey off your back in a match play format like this? 
 JUSTIN LEONARD:  Well, I haven't played match play since the -- well, I guess this event two years ago.  Yeah, it's a different -- it's a little bit different mindset.  I felt playing a player like Geoff who's had such a great record in this event, I definitely had the underdog status and kind of nothing to lose. 
 But I played real well, just played solid and made a few putts. 

 Q.  Going along with that, everyone has been talking about how this is a bomber's course, this is a bomber's course.  You played well at Torrey Pines.  You've been able to even find your way how to do well on some of the longer courses than the guys that grip it and rip it. 
 JUSTIN LEONARD:  Yeah, well, the golf course is firm.  My ball flight -- I can get some roll out of these fairways, and I'm able to get to some of the par-5s. There is some room to drive it off the tee, but this is more of a second-shot golf course, and it helps hitting in from the fairway. 

 Q.  Is it a good match play course, short par-4s and reachable par-5s? 
 JUSTIN LEONARD:  I definitely think it's a good match play course.  You've got a couple par-4s that you can drive, and three of the par-5s are pretty reachable, depending on the wind.  It sets up well for this format. 

 Q.  Obviously you ended last year strong, played this year really strong.  Is it fun playing golf right now? 
 JUSTIN LEONARD:  It is.  It is fun.  It's fun to come out and play with confidence, which I didn't get to do a whole lot last year, nor the year before.  So it's nice.  I feel like my game is pretty simple right now; I don't have a lot of thoughts, and I'm playing with confidence.  You're right, it definitely makes it fun. 

 Q.  Are there any goals right now that you have, either this week or looking forward? 
 JUSTIN LEONARD:  Yeah, I'm trying -- I'm working real hard to get in the WGC event at Doral and to get in the Masters.  My goal the first part of the year was to get in this event, and I've done that.  Now we need to get in the top 50 so I can get in those events. 

 Q.  What's special about the World Golf Championships? 
 JUSTIN LEONARD:  You know what's special is they're giving away $8 million and a ton of World Ranking points.  Obviously they're very select and limited fields.  But those first two are two pretty good reasons. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT