VALERO TEXAS OPEN
October 6, 2007
Justin Leonard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   NELSON SILVERIO:  Alright.  Justin Leonard, thanks for spending some time with us here.   
 64 today.  What's your thoughts on it and maybe compare conditions between today and the first couple days.   
 JUSTIN LEONARD:  It was a little -- the wind was up a little bit today which I was kind of glad to see, just dry the greens out a little more and make the golf course a little bit tougher.   
 Yeah, I played real solid.  I hit a lot of fairways, lot of greens and, you know, that kind takes pressure off my putting and I putted well.   
 NELSON SILVERIO:  Questions?   
  
  Q.  No. 14, great save there.  Of course, you had the long putt for birdie.  It seemed like your putter was working pretty well.  You had a couple that burned the lip.   
 JUSTIN LEONARD:  I putted real solid all week and made some putts outside of ten feet which is nice and, you know, today probably the biggest putt I made was on 10.  Hit a pretty good iron shot in there and it rolled right up against the rough and I honestly didn't know how to play it.  I tried to kind of belly a wedge and it went about two feet and then made about a 12-footer for par and that kind of kept what momentum I had going and then made a nice putt at the next hole for birdie.   
 I think this week more than anything I kind of made the key putts to keep my round going which has not always been the case this year.   
 It's nice to see that happen.   
  
  Q.  Your average on this course now --   
JUSTIN LEONARD:  I don't want to know what it is.   
  
  Q.  Is there something about this place though that -- this place fits your eye better than anyplace you play?   
 JUSTIN LEONARD:  It fits my eye pretty well.  I think the fact that I've had success here certainly helps that along.  It's not a golf course you can really overpower.   
 You have to pick your spots where you can play aggressively and where you can't.  I think there's a lot of strategy involved in playing well here and, you know, I think I've gotten very comfortable with that.   
  
  Q.  Does your game feel like where it was at in 2000, 2001?  Did you feel like that today?   
 JUSTIN LEONARD:  Yeah, pretty similar.  I don't think I was 4, 5 back, whatever I am, but I've played very well and I'm happy with the progress I've made and I think I'll be playing the last group tomorrow so, you know, hopefully I can make it a little more interesting by going out and playing well.   
 I need to get off to a good start and just see what happens.   
  
  Q.  Do you remember the last time you were paired with Jesper?   
 JUSTIN LEONARD:  I don't.  I don't.  It's been awhile.   
  
  Q.  In winning back to back in 2000, 2001, you had a lot of career highlights.   
 JUSTIN LEONARD:  Well, I've won ten times on Tour and they've all been highlights.  Certainly winning here close to home is very special.  I get a lot of support out here from UT fans and just being from the State of Texas, and that means a lot to me and it's nice that I've been able to play well here at times.  Not every year but, you know, hopefully I'll give them something to cheer for tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  Any moment out when you walk off 18 about the game being tied or --   
 JUSTIN LEONARD:  When I was walking up 18 fairway somebody said it was tied, 14-14.  I'll go look at the score, get my practice done and watch the end of the game.   
  
  Q.  Your life has changed since 2000, 2001.  I think you were just getting married or going to or something then.  Now three children later, you know --   
 JUSTIN LEONARD:  Goes by pretty quick, yeah.   
  
  Q.  Are you a different player now?   
 JUSTIN LEONARD:  Yeah, probably.  I'm certainly a different person.  I don't take -- I don't -- I ride more of an even keel, I'd say.  I don't -- the lows aren't as low and the highs aren't as high because this is not the most important thing to me anymore like it was back then.   
 So, you know, am I a different golfer?  Probably so.  I probably can't tell you how much of that has changed.   
 I can tell you exactly how I've changed as a person and that's been a fun ride.   
  
  Q.  Jesper shot well today but he didn't really go low like he did in the first round.   
 Looking at the leaderboard, is there maybe, lack of a better way to put this, a sense of relief that it's not an insurmountable lead that's out there?   
 JUSTIN LEONARD:  It's not insurmountable.  Jesper obviously shot 9-under the first day and backed it up pretty well last two rounds.   
 You know, if he continues to play the way he is -- you know, he's probably out too far.  But, you know, it doesn't mean I'm not going to try to go catch him and, you know, a lot of other guys are going to as well.   
 So, just try to go out and try to play the way I have been and take chances when I can and keep holing putts, see what happens.   
  
  Q.  Did you make any adjustments on the back-9 today?  I think yesterday you were much parred every hole, I believe, and today was a little bit better for you.   
 JUSTIN LEONARD:  No, I didn't really make any adjustments.  I just played a little bit better the back-9 than I did yesterday.  Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT