DAVIS CUP FIRST ROUND
February 9, 2006
Florin Segarseanu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








                           Q.    Is this the order of play that you'd like? 
                           CAPTAIN SEGARCEANU:    You're asking me? 
                           Q.    Anyone. 
                           CAPTAIN SEGARCEANU:    Yes.    I'm satisfied with this.    I mean, I was hoping Andrei will play first.    Because Andrei is more experienced. 
                           Q.    Andrei or Victor, can you talk about your particular matches against Andy and James. 
                           VICTOR HANESCU:    Last year I played with James in New Haven.    Was a tough match, three sets.    I think I learned something from that match.    Now I prepared for tomorrow. 
                           About Andy, I think I played three years ago with him in Europe, France.    Also I lost 7-6, 7-6, so was a close match.    Of course, I'm looking forward for a win in Davis Cup. 
                           ANDREI PAVEL:    I mean, you know, Andy is No. 3 in the world.    James had a pretty good year last year.    He started this year very good, too.    I think I lost to both, as well. 
                           I hope tomorrow I going to start the Davis Cup well, and I hope I bring the first point for our team and maybe make it 1-0 instead of 0-1.    Of course, Andy is amazing player, so we'll see what happen tomorrow. 
                           Q.    Captain, I know Sabau had to retire from his match at the Australian Open.    He told us this morning that he had a history of elbow problems that troubled him when he played Agassi at the US Open.    I want to ask you if he is fit now should you need him?    Is he fully fit? 
                           CAPTAIN SEGARCEANU:    That's a question exactly from the Romanian press was asking.    You can imagine, you don't put the player if he's not completely fit.    Of course, he's got this problem, but in the moment he's in the team, that means that he can play. 
                           Q.    Andrei, last year Slovakia and Croatia in the final was extraordinary.    What does this mean to you and your country and your team? 
                           ANDREI PAVEL:    Well, it mean a lot because, you know, countries like Slovakia and Croatia, they had like two players.    They try to make a doubles team, as well.    You know, United States, they have a bunch of players they can choose from.    Other countries like France, or Argentina, they have at least like four players in the top 50.    So that means a lot.    Give us a lot of encouragement and confidence in us.    We lost to Croatia after Croatia beat United States also 4-1 in Croatia.    Slovakia, we beat them two years or three years ago in Slovakia. 
                           You know, we have a good team.    We hope to be ready from tomorrow on, for the next three days, and surprise you guys.    We'll see. 


                           End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT