ROLAND GARROS
June 1, 2019
Katerina Siniakova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. SINIAKOVA/N. Osaka
6-4, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please.
Q. You saved seven break points in the first set.  What is one of the key points for victory today?
KATERINA SINIAKOVA: Yeah, it was much better when I save it and I hold my serves, because now my serve is really back.  So it was good for me that I stayed in the set, and then I had the break.
So, yeah, it's one of the points that it helped me.
Q. What was your game plan coming to this match?
KATERINA SINIAKOVA: I mean, I'm a really aggressive player, so I was trying to let her behind the baseline as much as possible and trying to just put so many balls in and just don't give her easy points.
I think it was really good and it was working, and I think her serve today wasn't so good, so I was trying to use that second set serve.
Q. Speaking of saving break points, in the first set when you are serving for the set, you faced the three break points, and then you hit kind of brave dropshot.  Could you talk about that?  It comes out of your mind or you always try to find an opportunity to hit it?
KATERINA SINIAKOVA: Yeah, I think it was one shot I could use against her, and it was brave, but I believe in my dropshot.  I think it's really good.
Actually, it was tough to finish the set, and I was really happy I fight back and I finish it.
Q. I just wanted to ask you a little bit about your serve.  Your action seems a little different from maybe the other girls'.  Was it always like this or did you break it down because at some point you...
KATERINA SINIAKOVA: No, it's still changing (smiling).  I'm trying to find the motion like other girls, if I say.
Yeah, I mean, now, yeah, I'm working on it, but the important thing is that it needs to go in and it needs to work in the game.  So now I find kind of rhythm it's helping me and it's working.
So maybe it looks strange.  Not bad, strange (smiling).  So far it's working, but of course it's improving more and more.  It's just like this.  I don't know why.
Q. Naomi said she was a little bit nervous during this tournament, because it was her first Grand Slam as No. 1.  Did you feel it on the court today?
KATERINA SINIAKOVA: I mean, I felt the chance, because her first and second round was tough, so I could see that she's not so confident like she was.
So I just try to focus on my game and be ready for big fight.  But, yeah, I felt a chance.
Q. You have had a lot of success as a doubles player.  What I'm wondering, are there ways in which that kind of play has helped your singles game, do you think?  And also, where would you rate today's performance and result in your career, looking at what you have done in singles and doubles?
KATERINA SINIAKOVA: Yeah, I think it's helping.  I had some matches on the biggest courts here in doubles.  So the atmosphere is much different than on a smaller court.
So in this case, it helped me, you know, what you can expect.  And of course some days you anyway go practice and the match is good also, and I like to play doubles.  So for sure it was helping my game, and even the mentality and the stuff of this.
Yeah, it's tough to say if it's the best performance of me, but it's the best result so far.  So I'm so happy about it, and I think I can say I feel confident with my game now.
So hopefully it's not the end and I can show some best tennis in the other round.
Q. I think today Naomi made many unforced errors from her backhand.  Is that something that you are aiming at to, you know, make her make many unforced errors?
KATERINA SINIAKOVA: I can say she's more aggressive than me.  It's her game.  So, yeah, I was trying to chase every ball and make her miss if it's possible, just try to stay her behind baseline and not feel confident like she's in front of the court, or, like, inside the court.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT