THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 14, 2018
Barbora Krejcikova
Katerina Siniakova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
KREJCIKOVA-SINIAKOVA/Melichar-Peschke   
6-4, 4-6, 6-0   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  What do you remember of the girl's championship that you won together here?  
BARBORA KREJCIKOVA: The match point.  The match point when we played a rally, and I think the opponent missed very easy smash and it was over, so we won.  I think that's the memory I have.   
KATERINA SINIAKOVA: We were just talking about it in the French Open.  So, yeah, it's probably the one of the memories, right.   
 Q.  In today's match, how do you rebound and finish that off with the bagel set?  
BARBORA KREJCIKOVA: I don't know.   
KATERINA SINIAKOVA: It's just amazing, yeah.   
BARBORA KREJCIKOVA: I think it was really tough, especially leading first set, then losing, like, break in the second very early.  Then, you know, we were just fighting to come back.  At 4-All, 4-5, I mean, they were serving really well.  Then, I mean, I lost the serve.   
Yeah, it wasn't really good.  But then I think it was really good that we broke them, especially in the first game.  We just continued.  We, you know, tried to play our game and tried to just be aggressive and play and go for every point.   
Yeah, somehow we broke them again, then again.  We were serving really good.  We won the match.   
 Q.  You're the first team in, like, 15 years of women's doubles to win French Open and Wimbledon back-to-back.  Is it easier now that you know how to win a Grand Slam or is this one tougher?  
KATERINA SINIAKOVA: I think it's not easy.  Every match is really tough.  In the beginning of the tournament, I wouldn't expected this.  Now I'm here, and we have two titles.  It feel just amazing.   
When we went on the court, we were expecting it's really tough match, it's final.  Emotional still there.  I think it doesn't matter if it's first one or second one, it's still the final.  You just fighting to win the title.   
 Q.  Doubles is about complementing each other.  What do you feel you have that the other person doesn't?  Why do you think you click so well as a doubles team?  
BARBORA KREJCIKOVA: I think it's a communication in between us because I feel like we can really communicate even if we do well or even if we don't do well.  So I think that's the key.  That's the key why we just play that well.   
I also think that, you know, she has, like, some type of a game.  She's really strong.  She's playing powerful shots.  Then on the other hand, I'm totally, like, opposite person, that I like to play with the more spin, I like to do some kind of variations or something.   
I think when we just put it together, it's really matching.  It's really, like, hard for our opponent to play against us, I think.   
 Q.  Were there any major differences between playing the final as a junior to playing as a senior now?  
KATERINA SINIAKOVA: I think it's big different.  I mean, juniors, it was also amazing, the feeling.  We were playing so well in the juniors.  But this stage, it's much, much bigger.  I think every junior is dreaming to go also in seniors and play like this.   
So for me it's a big different.  For me, it means a lot.  I think it just amazing that we continue like in juniors.   
 Q.  Were you watching the women's final before you took the court or no?  
BARBORA KREJCIKOVA: Just the first set.  Just the first set.  I mean, then we were preparing for our match because we get moved.  We knew we going to play Court 1.   
I really think it was really nice match, at least the first set from what I've seen.  I'm really happy that Angelique she won.  I think it's amazing achievement for her.   
Yeah, but, I mean, Serena was in final.  She's coming, you know, after giving a birth to baby.  It must be just so hard.  I really, like, think that both of them, they did a really good job today.  I hope they will continue and just play their best and do the best what they can for the women's tennis.   
 Q.  It looked like after you went to congratulate your team, Barbora, you threw a kiss to the sky.  Is that in reference to what I would assume?  
BARBORA KREJCIKOVA: Yes, I think so.  It was for Jana.   
 Q.  I know in Paris you gave a speech on court and said it was dedicated to her.  
BARBORA KREJCIKOVA: Yes.   
 Q.  What does it mean for you to get a Wimbledon title 20 years after her?  
BARBORA KREJCIKOVA: I would like to dedicate it to her again.  She really deserves to think about her, like, in really good spirit, in really good way.  I think it's really good that it was mentioned here, that she won title here 20 years ago.  It was her biggest title.  She really wanted to win it, as I know from the stories she told me.   
All those emotions she was going through, like, during her career to win the Grand Slam.  I mean, right here, right now, like 20 years after her winning Grand Slam.  Only doubles, but still it's perfect.   
Yeah, I'm really happy that I could met her, that she won the title back in 1998.  Yeah, I'm really, really proud.  I think she would be really proud, too.   
 Q.  Difficult being a TBA match for a final, moving to Court 1, an unusual situation.  I don't know if it affected your preparation at all for the match.  
BARBORA KREJCIKOVA: (Witness nodding head.)   
 Q.  Yeah?  
BARBORA KREJCIKOVA: You don't know until the last minute, yeah.   
 Q.  Why do you think players from Czech Republic are doing well doubles and singles?  
KATERINA SINIAKOVA: Everybody ask this question.  But we don't know (smiling).   
No, of course it's amazing that small country have so many good players.   
BARBORA KREJCIKOVA: We don't know.  We don't know why is it like this.   
KATERINA SINIAKOVA: Because every player has different way.  They are just, I don't know, working hard and trying to be in the top.  It's good that it's from Czech Republic.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT