BNP PARIBAS FED CUP: USA VS CZECH REPUBLIC
April 23, 2017
Petr Pala
Katerina Siniakova
Kristyna Pliskova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Petr, can you talk about just the tie and how you think it played out, why it played out that way.  
CAPTAIN PALA: We were facing favorable United States team and girls all, they all put in great performance.  They all fought.  We just came one point short.   
Obviously it was very tough at the end because girls just sitting here next to me really faced a top-class doubles player.  Was really difficult to overcome that.   
But I'm proud of the whole team.  I'm looking forward to see them again in other matches.   
 Q.  You must have been pleased with Marketa's performance today.  
CAPTAIN PALA: Yeah, she beat top 40 player at her age and she gave us a chance to stay in the tie.  Anything could happen.  But they just didn't let us make the last point, so they were better.   
Coco won two matches in straight sets, and I think that was also the key, because she was very confident in the doubles and she played with the No. 1 player in the world.   
That's really tough to beat.   
 Q.  Ladies, how was it out there?  Tough team obviously with the No. 1 player in the world.  
KRISTYNA PLISKOVA: Yeah, I think they are like the best couples because they played last year together and they won some tournaments, so wasn't easy.  Especially for me.  I was sitting all weekend so I wasn't that feeling great.   
But I don't think it was that bad.  Only the score looks bad.  But they played good.   
 Q.  Petr, obviously you guys have dominated this competition the last six years, five of the last six.  Talk a little bit about that record and make how hard it is to give it up?  
CAPTAIN PALA: Well, I'm still disappointed even, you know, I'm proud the way everyone performed.  But still disappointed.  Obviously everyone wants to win.   
But I know we are -- I remember the ties before when we were lucky.  We didn't have much luck this tie.  It's not that we were not unlucky.  I don't mean that.  We needed a little luck.  Maybe girls needed a little luck to maybe change the things around.   
Didn't happen.  Sometimes it happens; sometimes it doesn't.  Still looking forward for next years.  I mean, just we have a great depth in our team, and let's see who we going to face next year.   
I'm happy that new players, they all played.  Whoever hasn't played Fed Cup tie played a tie, so it will help them for definitely the future, for the next ties.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT