MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 20, 2017
Albert Ramon-Vinolas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. RAMOS-VINOLAS/A. Murray   
2-6, 6-2, 7-5   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Were you surprised of what happened, especially since you were down 4-Love in the third set?  Or more or less that happens, in your opinion, even with better players - well, similar players?  
ALBERT RAMOS-VINOLAS: The most normal is to lose the match.  But today it's one of that days that sometimes happen.   
I still fight.  I was fighting.  I was 4-0, and I thought that I need to keep playing every point.  Then at the end I won.   
I don't know what to say.   
 Q.  How do you explain this?  
ALBERT RAMOS-VINOLAS: I don't know.  It's difficult to say.  I just tried to be concentrating every single point.  After in the 4-All, I was Love-40, I lost the game.  I said, Okay, before I was losing, now I had the chance to win, to serve for the match.  I didn't win it, but I need to keep on the same way, and we will see after the match.   
 Q.  What did you do when you got into the locker room afterwards, after a big win like this?  Is everything just routine?  Are you banging the walls out of enjoyment?  
ALBERT RAMOS-VINOLAS: Well, in the locker room there are another players so I cannot do anything like a crazy.  I was really happy.  I still being really happy.   
But in the locker room I just talked to my coach.  I said my feelings.  He told me something also.   
But I cannot do anything special there because there are more players, and they will think that I'm really crazy (smiling).   
 Q.  You have two coaches or one now?  What is the name of the coach now?  
ALBERT RAMOS-VINOLAS: Well, I have my coach since long time ago, who is Jose Maria Diaz, it's called.  Then I have another coach who is working for the academy of my coach, called Noe.  He's traveling with me nine weeks.  He's helping him a little bit, the weeks that my coach is not coming.   
Also I have another person who is also tennis coach who is helping all of us.  I don't know in English the word, consultant.  He's helping us, to all the team.  Also is helping to my fitness coach in something more specific for the tennis.  This is my team.   
 Q.  What is the name of this one?  
ALBERT RAMOS-VINOLAS: This one is called Juan (indiscernible).   
 Q.  Did you feel he was suffering the way you are playing with your left hand?  
ALBERT RAMOS-VINOLAS: I don't know.  This question is for him maybe.   
 Q.  Perhaps it's true.  
ALBERT RAMOS-VINOLAS: What I felt was he was returning so good in the first set, then I tried to change my second serve to his forehand.  It worked little bit.   
After, in the third set, I think I lost a little bit the concentration the first games.  Then I just play really good.  I think I did a great game.  I don't know if it was because I'm lefty or not.  I just tried to do my best game, and that's it.   
 Q.  What is special to you about this tournament?  
ALBERT RAMOS-VINOLAS: Well, I think I like a lot this tournament.  It's amazing place, as everybody can see.  I don't know how to explain the court.  It's really, really wonderful.   
I have the feeling that I like to play here.  I don't know.  I have the feeling similar than Barcelona where I'm practicing.  The court, it's very similar.  The ball is the same.  We are in the no altitude.  I like a lot the atmosphere here.  I really enjoy to play here.   
 Q.  You beat Federer.  You made the quarterfinals in Roland Garros.  This result of beating the No. 1 in the world.  Can you compare the three?  What gave you more confidence on who you are, what you can do in the future?  
ALBERT RAMOS-VINOLAS: It's difficult to compare, no?  I cannot tell you which one I prefer because you told me three important things in my career.  It's difficult.   
Maybe for me the most important was to be in quarterfinal in Roland Garros.  But the others also are very important.   
 Q.  Of all the places you've played, does anyplace compare to the beauty of this place?  
ALBERT RAMOS-VINOLAS: It's difficult.  It's not beautiful like this, but I feel like when I play in Barcelona or Madrid, I feel at home.  I have another motivation.   
But this tournament, it's really special.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT