NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: PHILLIES v DODGERS
October 16, 2009
Carlos Ruiz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Growing up in Panama, what was your exposure to playoff baseball? Did you watch games? What was it like growing up in October when the MLB playoffs were going on?  
 CARLOS RUIZ: It was a special moment for me when I used to watch the games postseason. I really wanted to be on this stage, and I thank God for the opportunity to be here and participating in these games.   
  
  Q. When you were watching the games and other players, what catchers are the guys that you liked to watch more than others?  
 CARLOS RUIZ: I always kept an eye on Ivan Rodriguez. He's one of the guys that I followed, that I enjoyed watching play.  
 In the postseason I also like to see how the catchers call the games.  
  
  Q. In 2004, in Reading was your true breakout year when the Phillies thought you could be a big league catcher. What changed in that year in '04 and then '05 that was able to put you up where you are now?   
 CARLOS RUIZ: I basically concentrated really well on adjusting to that position and working hard at it and dedicated myself to be the best that I can be at that position.   
  
  Q. Can you tell us a little bit about catching Pedro Martinez, what it's like, because he's such a veteran? Is it easy, call his own game, or just tell us a little bit about that.   
 CARLOS RUIZ: At first I never caught him, so it was very special for me. But Pedro is such a smart pitcher that as he goes along -- well, I like the fact that he likes the catcher to be very enthusiastic, and basically now we're in a position where I know exactly what kind of game he likes to call, so I'm very comfortable with that now.   
  
  Q. This is your second big postseason, in which you're putting up great numbers. Some guys kind of like the pressure of this. Do you feel like this is a stage you like?  
 CARLOS RUIZ: I try to basically enjoy the game. I relax so well, and I basically want to get the team my portion of the whole pie. So basically I just like to be part of the whole thing, and I relax well.   
  
  Q. Along those lines, catchers historically in the postseason have not batted well and then batted well in the postseason. Do you think it has something to do with the rest that you get? Do you feel more physically stronger now than at the end of a long season?  
 CARLOS RUIZ: For me, basically I try to separate calling the game defensively and trying to do my part when I got to the plate. I don't try to mix any of the two things, and to me that's what has me come through in the moments that I have done, and for me that's how it's worked so far.   
  
  Q. Obviously you're pretty close to Brad Lidge. What do you see differently in his approach now than maybe it was two months ago? Obviously he's having a lot more success right now.   
 CARLOS RUIZ: Last time when we clinched the division, I think that I see a change trying to make the last out. Ever since then I've seen how important he is to this team, and he's also working an extra pitch.   
 So I've seen the difference. He looks much, much relaxed, and basically I know that he's the guy to guide this team to the championship. I noticed him when other players were separating, and I've been able to see the difference.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT