INTERNATIONAL CROWN
July 26, 2014
Pernilla Lindberg
Mikaela Parmlid
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Are you going to wait to find out?
MIKAELA PARMLID:   It will be a Christmas surprise. 

Q.   Did you do that with your other two?
MIKAELA PARMLID:   Yeah.

Q.   So tell me what it felt like playing pregnant.   I mean, has your balance been better?   Has it been the same?   Any pleasant surprises, because you played awesome?
MIKAELA PARMLID:   Yeah, it's a bit different with generating power, okay?   So that's the big difference.   Once I changed a little bit, I was like, Okay, this is how I can generate power now.   And then I played with it.

Q.   What did you discover?   What was the secret?
MIKAELA PARMLID:   The secret is I generate it with my legs much more.   Because I don't really have any stomach muscles to support it. 

Q.   No core?
MIKAELA PARMLID:   Yeah, no core. 
(Laughter.)

Q.   Can you feel the baby moving when you're playing?
MIKAELA PARMLID:   Oh, yeah, you can feel it.

Q.   Is it ever distracting?
MIKAELA PARMLID:   No, because I'm so into it. 

Q.   You don't feel it?
MIKAELA PARMLID:   When I'm walking.   When I focus on it like that.   If I don't focus on it, then I don't feel it. 

Q.   So when did you technically retire?
MIKAELA PARMLID:   Oh, I guess I haven't really retired, but I was pretty sure in December.   I said, Okay, this is my last tournament in Dubai. 
Then I didn't really do anything.   I didn't pick up clubs for three months.   Then I got into this event.   The reason was, last year I was one spot out of Solheim Cup, and I always wanted to play these team events.   Suddenly, I was one spot in.   It was just funny.   They came up with a tournament.

Q.   Different team?
MIKAELA PARMLID:   Different team, but same thing.   So I just couldn't say no.   So that sparked my motivation.   That's all it is, it's just motivation.   So if I'm really motivated and really think it's fun, I love playing golf.   So it's been a great journey since.

Q.   So what do you think you'll do after this?
MIKAELA PARMLID:   I don't know.   Like that's funny.   Now I'm having so much fun playing golf, I have a whole different attitude.   I just enjoy it.

Q.   Because of this event?
MIKAELA PARMLID:   This event and since I took a different attitude towards golf, towards competition, and towards everything in life. 
It's just helped me as a person to enjoy everything and love what I do.   And whatever I do, that's the most fun.   I mean, I choose what I want to do.   Now I think this is a great thing.   So I probably will come back to the U.S. if I continue to play. 

Q.   Try to play the LPGA again?
MIKAELA PARMLID:   Yeah.

Q.   When they called you up and said, Hey, you qualified for the International Crown what did you know about this event?
MIKAELA PARMLID:   I didn't know anything.   I had no clue.   I didn't know anything.   So I went on line and I looked it up really quick and I was like, they called me from the LPGA saying I was in the Swedish team and they couldn't get ahold of me until like the last day to or two days last to get to register. 

Q.   Where were you?   In Siberia?
MIKAELA PARMLID:   Well, yeah.
(Laughter.)
I guess my LPGA e‑mail had gone into my spam.   So I didn't get any of the e‑mails.

Q.   So that's what happens when you're retired?
MIKAELA PARMLID:   Yeah.   So I didn't know.   I really didn't know.   If I would have gotten the LPGA e‑mails, I would have known about this event, but I didn't.

Q.   So you just made it in the nick of time?
MIKAELA PARMLID:   Yeah. 

Q.   So then this course is hilly.   How did you prepare for it?
MIKAELA PARMLID:   I asked Pernilla when we were in England and she said, it's a really hilly course.   And that's when I said, Okay, I got to walk. 
So I took my dog at home and walked a lot more upanddown like, because I thought that would be my biggest issue, actually.   So I've been playing great golf the whole spring, so it was just in the beginning it was hard to even pick something up, because I guess your body produces more blood.   I mean, you get out of breath for very little things.   So that's what I had.   But now it's fine.   I mean, your body can do way more than you ever expect it to. 

Q.   So tell me how you two decided that you would be together the whole time?   How the team figured out?
PERNILLA LINDBERG:   We kind of said that whatever we start with, we should just stick with, because it feels like you can bring momentum from one day to the next, just a familiar feeling every day you go out.   And with Anna and Caroline, obviously, a great combo at the Solheim Cup, and then I'm the one that has met Mikaela the most, because I played more on the LET the last few years than Anna and Caroline. 
So I think that's pretty much what we based it on, just that we got to know each other more than she's gotten to know Caroline and Anna.   So it was pretty easy.
MIKAELA PARMLID:   Yeah, I thought it was an easy choice.   Because they are such a good Solheim Cup team. 
PERNILLA LINDBERG:   And we felt like, yeah, we could compliment each other pretty well. 

Q.   You guys both played well yesterday, you just had a tough opponent. 
PERNILLA LINDBERG:   Exactly.   And the first day, we started off a little slow.   But really from the start yesterday to the end today, we have been playing some great golf.   It would have been so nice walking away with at least one point yesterday, it felt like we kind of deserved it with the golf we played. 
If we had played any other team yesterday, I mean, we would have beat them.   But that's match play.   I think when you play against great players and they're playing well, you kind of just brace yourself as well.   So that's what's fun with match play.

Q.   So scoring is a little confusing the way they have done it this week.   Do you remember how many birdies you had each of you yesterday and today?   I know you had an eagle. 
MIKAELA PARMLID:   I think I had six birdies and an eagle yesterday.   Six or seven birdies and an eagle. 

Q.   And what did you have? 
PERNILLA LINDBERG:   I was going to say I thought you had five and an eagle and I thought I had two.   Because I know we were 9‑under as a team and Korea was 10‑under. 
MIKAELA PARMLID:   So maybe it was five.   Yesterday it was in the newspaper, you know.
(Laughter.)

Q.   Well, the scoring is off.   That's why I'm asking.   So five and an eagle. 
PERNILLA LINDBERG:   And today I birdied 1, you birdied 2.   You birdied 3.   I birdied 5.   You birdied 11.   I birdied 12.   And then I was given my putt on the last one there on 13. 

Q.   Pernilla, what does this win mean for you guys today? 
PERNILLA LINDBERG:   It was just so nice to put some points on the board, because obviously we hadn't our first two days.   It really felt like we deserved it after our good golf yesterday.   So just, yeah, we were so determined to go out there today and just get those two points, because we knew we were playing great golf. 

Q.   Your husband's name?
MIKAELA PARMLID:   C‑a‑l‑l‑e. 

Q.   And then?
MIKAELA PARMLID:   M‑o‑r‑c‑k. 

Q.   And then the kid's name and age?
MIKAELA PARMLID:   Emmi, E‑m‑m‑i, and she's turned three yesterday.   So we'll have a birthday later. 

Q.   You're busy right now.   Did you Skype with her?
MIKAELA PARMLID:   Yeah, I Skyped with her. 

Q.   Did she have a party?
MIKAELA PARMLID:   Yeah, she had a little party with just the grandparents.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT