LPGA CORNING CLASSIC
May 22, 2009
Mikaela Parmlid
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MIKE SCANLAN: All right, Mikaela, nice round today got you to 10-under par overall for the tournament. Right now you're four back. We'll see what happens in the afternoon, but just talk about your day and how pleased you are to be here on the top of the leaderboard. 
 MIKAELA PARMLID: Yeah. I'm very pleased. You know, there's a lot of opportunities out there, and it's really fun. You can fire at the tees, and I've had many opportunities, and I made a lot of putts, but I still feel like there's a lot left out there. So if you feel that way, you know you're playing well.
 And I mean I'm pleased. I'm here to win, finally, and I've tried to change my mindset. I had a little rough patch on the Tour, but it's getting a lot better. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: Questions? 

 Q. Your round today looked a little like a roller coaster. 
 MIKAELA PARMLID: Yeah. 

 Q. A lot of ups and downs. Do you know what the inconsistency was due to?
 MIKAELA PARMLID: No. I missed a few tee shots, but yesterday I didn't have any bogeys at all and I hit pretty much I don't know how many fairways. But I didn't feel like I hit as many fairways.
 So today, you just make it in a few different spots, but it wasn't that much up and down. I had a lot of chances. So it was good play, and I'm putting extremely well, so I'm happy. 
 There is tight spots in some places. You gotta get good tee shots to really get it, otherwise you gotta really find your way to the green. 

 Q. Do you feel like there's any difference between yesterday and today as far as how the course is playing?
 MIKAELA PARMLID: No. I played in the afternoon yesterday. The course is playing about the same. The greens are always a little better in the morning. That's always the case. But it's about the same. 

 Q. Knowing you're already four back and who knows what's going to go on in the afternoon, but are you going to play a little more aggressively going into tomorrow's round?
 MIKAELA PARMLID: Yeah. I'll play aggressive. I played aggressive today, too. That's probably why I got in a little trouble, but I'll keep playing aggressive and making birdies, and I just want to make as many birdies as I can possibly make. 

 Q. All the leaders are making bogeys and still having low scores. 
 MIKAELA PARMLID: Yes. 

 Q. If you could shoot a bogey-free round, what do you think your score would be?
 MIKAELA PARMLID: Oh, bogey-free round? I had one yesterday, but I mean you can go low 60 out here, really low 60s. So it is possible. 
 If you have a good iron day, oh, my gosh, you can light it up. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: Anything else? All right. Thank you so much.
 MIKAELA PARMLID: All right. Thank you, guys. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT