LONGS DRUGS CHALLENGE
October 9, 2008
Mikaela Parmlid
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JASON TAYLOR: Thanks for coming in. 5-under in round one, one back from the lead. Just thoughts on your round today. 
 MIKAELA PARMLID: I just played really, really solid. I mean, I'm starting to play better. I've had a rough time, so it's been a change. Last week, or last tournament, I was 9-under and so that was kind of -- I kept going. It's been nice. 
 I see birdies coming. I mean, I think I had like 17 birdies or something last tournament. I never had so many birdies.
 JASON TAYLOR: Questions. 

 Q. The wind, as the day went on, seemed like it was getting windier and swirling a lot. 
 MIKAELA PARMLID: Yeah, it was. It was swirling a lot, I would say. You just got to calculate with the wind and take the opportunities you get. I hit a few really good shots, and that's kind of what you -- you just got to pick your number and hope it's right, you know. That's kind of what it is. 
 Actually it was really windy when we started -- when we got up to the top there on the back nine, that par-3, it was howling sideways, so... 

 Q. What would a victory mean to you?
 MIKAELA PARMLID: Oh, it would mean a lot right now. I'm ready for it, though. 

 Q. Is it a coincidence that you started playing better when you got this new caddie, or is there something that has clicked? Is your caddie contributing something to this? 
 MIKAELA PARMLID: He has a lot of experience. He came from the PGA TOUR, and he's worked for a lot of really good PGA TOUR guys. It's more the trust, that he knows his numbers and he's very quick in the head. 
 He just comes with things that you don't really expect a caddie to know, so that's been kind of nice. So just got a little bit more trust in it and that he knows what he's doing. That kind of goes over to my game. Then I start to trust and don't really look at the different way the course is -- how the course is laid out. He says, You need to hit there and that's the number, and, yeah. Makes it a lot easier, so...
 His name is Judge. We call him Judge. Richard -- I don't know his real name. Judge is what everybody calls him. He's been a judge in one of those little courtroom things, I guess marriages and stuff. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 MIKAELA PARMLID: What? No, I made it -- Richard or something. Don't write that. (Laughter) But he introduces himself as Judge, too. So I mean, yeah, that is his name. 

 Q. Can you think of something that he's told you that you never had another caddie tell you or that you didn't expect that he would know? 
 MIKAELA PARMLID: Yeah, last event was kind of funny. We played if the early morning and there was kind of a little mist on the greens. 
 On the first putt I had a pretty close 10-footer. I read it and I go, It's for sure breaking, and it didn't break. It was dead straight. I was like, This is the craziest thing. This putt needs to break. I played it on the edge and it didn't break. 
 He goes, Yeah, it's the mist from the green, so they never really break that way. I was like, How do you know -- I that makes sense, total sense, but that you only get from playing with a lot of really great players. 
 There's been a few things that he's been really good. Just those things makes your confidence go up, you know. Whatever he of has made sense. There hadn't been too much of the whatever, that doesn't really relate to the game kind of talk. 
 So that's been -- and then there's been -- and also I've learned from my past experience that I need to kind of -- like a caddie is not someone you bounce ideas off. You know, like you keep them to yourself and you work on that, and if you want to bounce it off you bounce it off with your teacher. 
 I didn't do that too great with my last guy. He's a great guy, it just kind of confused him as well, so...
 JASON TAYLOR: All right. Thanks so much.
 MIKAELA PARMLID: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT