NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: GRIZZLIES v SPURS
May 24, 2013
Tayshaun Prince
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  TAYSHAUN PRINCE:   Whatever it takes to win.   I've always been that way.   Nothing changes for me, and whatever happens happens.   I've never been in a position where I'd be worried or concerned about how I'm shooting.   I just have to continue to stay confident, and when the shots are available, take them.  
   
 Q.   What about the hip?   How does the hip feel?  
TAYSHAUN PRINCE:   Fine.   I'm not hurt at all.  
   
 Q.   You have been in this situation in the past and a lot of your teammates haven't.   Can you say anything to them about this level?   
TAYSHAUN PRINCE:   Well, I mean, the magnitude is high, and obviously it's a different scenario being down two in the first series against the Clippers, you're talking Western Conference Finals, you're talking San Antonio Spurs who have been here so many different times.   Just got to continue to stay on the guys about staying focused, staying focused because first game, just high jitters, never got in the rhythm of the game.   Second game I think we had a poor second quarter, which kind of hurt us, but we got back in the game and forced overtime.   But we're playing against the Spurs.   Now you've just got to have a good 48‑minute game, you can't have any let‑downs through the middle of the game, and that's what we've been able to do at home.  
   
 Q.   You've been able to adjust really well.   Do you feel like you know what you need to do?  
TAYSHAUN PRINCE:   We know what we need to do, but it's just a matter of going out there and doing it.   Everybody knows what we need to do.   We can talk about it; it's easier said than done.   But we've just got to go out, be focused, be concentrated and put together a 48‑minute game and not have inconsistencies throughout the middle of the game.  
   
 Q.   Things get a little more intense today as you're finally getting to game day?  
TAYSHAUN PRINCE:   I mean, as you get closer to game day you want to be as sharp and crisp as possible in practice, and that's the main focus.   Hopefully when you do those things they translate over to the game.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT