NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PISTONS v HEAT
May 25, 2006
Tayshaun Prince
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  How aware were you through the first nine minutes of the fourth quarter that you scored every one of the team's points, and what makes you such a tough match-up?   
 TAYSHAUN PRINCE:  I didn't know that, but I think whenever the team goes on a drought or we do some things that -- as far as taking jump shots or kind of getting out of sync a little bit, I try to tell Chauncey or the coach to let me try to get something to block or get something going to the basket or to get to the foul line, something like that.  I've just been in a situation where I've been getting some offensive rebounds and doing the little things to try to get my game going a little bit, and it's been helpful.   
  Q.  What happened on that play at the end?  It looked like you were trying to call time-out and didn't get it.   
 TAYSHAUN PRINCE:  Yeah, I was calling time-out.  I think from Dick's point of view, I mean, he didn't tell me this, but I think he was so aware of what was going on in bounds that he wasn't paying attention to me.  When I called time-out, he wasn't looking nowhere in my area, he was so worried about what was going on in the inside, and I think at that point -- that's got to be the other ref's responsibility if they see a foul.  More importantly, you've got to be in a situation where you can call time-out.   
  Q.  Did he say something to you after the game?   
 TAYSHAUN PRINCE:  He said something to me.  I was pretty upset about it, but things happen.  I just move on.   
  Q.  The way it ended and them scoring 17 points, does that take away anything that you might have built up through the first three-plus quarters?   
 TAYSHAUN PRINCE:  I think it can, but hopefully it won't, and hopefully we just build on what we did before that happened.  They did a good job of denying the ball, not giving me the opportunity to find an open man.  I think once Rasheed found out, they put me in a tough situation throwing the ball in bounds because we went small, and usually if I get caught in a bad situation, Rasheed can run to the ball and I can just throw it up.  Once he fouled out I was in a tough situation, but things happen.   
  Q.  Tonight you were especially effective tapping in your own rebounds, offensive rebounds.  What was going on there that made that work for you?   
 TAYSHAUN PRINCE:  I kind of felt my shots being short a little bit when I was in the paint area, so I think I'm a pretty quick second jumper.  More importantly just using my length.  It was a situation that I knew my shots were shot, so if you know they're short you've got to be in a situation to go get the ball, just a perfect situation coming right back into my hands.  Just being aggressive, and if the shots weren't falling I was just trying to give myself and my teammates extra opportunities.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT