NBA FINALS: PISTONS v SPURS
June 10, 2005
Tayshaun Prince
Ben Wallace
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  How would you characterize your mood this morning? 

BEN WALLACE:  Sleepy. 

Q.  Everything being said, the goal is to come down and take one of these from San Antonio, how important is it for you to win on Sunday? 

BEN WALLACE:  We have to come out and compete on the level we normally compete on and once we do that, we'll be all right. 

Q.  Is the key to establish yourself early? 

BEN WALLACE:  Yeah, you know, I think we need to get the ball on the block and get Tim to look over his shoulders and see how that matchup is going and it allows everybody else to get easy shots. 

Q.  How do you explain the lack of interior presence overall on both ends? 

BEN WALLACE:  I really can't.  It's one of those things.  You're going to go through some games and things like that are going to happen. 

Q.  He (Nazr Mohammed) was joking that you were the big man on campus. 

TAYSHAUN PRINCE:  I guess he was there last summer, you know, when I guess I came back to campus.  You know, he goes back to the campus a lot, so no matter what happens, they always respect him there, just like they do me.  Obviously me winning the Championship last year, I got a little more attention obviously, but he gets as much respect there as I do. 

Q.  He was saying, that you both went to Kentucky, which was a pressure cooker

TAYSHAUN PRINCE:  Yeah, it's definitely a tough place to play.  You know everybody is going to look at you as an NBA team.  That's definitely how they approached it and obviously the atmosphere and playing top basketball teams all around definitely helped out. 

Q.  When you have a game like last night, the guy that you matched up with in the beginning of the game has a good game, do you understand the defense in this league is a collective effort, but as someone who prides themselves on their defense, do you take it personally after the game?

TAYSHAUN PRINCE:  You always take it personally.  Even if you don't have a good game and you lose, you take anything personal.  You wish we could have done this or could have done that.  That's going to happen regardless when you lose a basketball game, no matter if the player you guard scores 24 points or they don't score much at all. 

Q.  What is the No. 1 thing you have to do --

TAYSHAUN PRINCE:  I thought defensively obviously if the first half was great.  We missed a lot of easy shots.  The second half we knew they were going to come out a little more aggressive which they did.  Nazr Mohammed attacked the glass, got some offensive rebounds and Tim got some inside baskets.  Ginobli was tough to keep off the paint area, Parker as well.  We've got our hands full, but got to look at some film and see what we can do better. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT