NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PISTONS v CELTICS
May 25, 2008
Tayshaun Prince
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Do you feel like coming home you guys might have relaxed a little bit?
 TAYSHAUN PRINCE: I don't know if that's the case, but I do believe that focus is different at home than on the road, no matter what. I just think it's that way. How you get it the same, I don't know. I don't know how you do it.

 Q. How is the mood of the team right now? Are guys still down or realize you've got some work to do tomorrow?
 TAYSHAUN PRINCE: Of course we still realize we have work to do, that's the bottom line. We know that. You know, we hate to say that we keep putting ourselves in this position, but we've got to find a way to get out of it.

 Q. When you've got the ball at the top, what were you seeing that was causing all kinds of hesitation? The ball didn't swing as much.
 TAYSHAUN PRINCE: The ball didn't swing, we wasn't moving.

 Q. People weren't coming off cuts --
 TAYSHAUN PRINCE: Nothing was going. I think once a situation happened like that, the majority of the time, our offensive results end up that way.

 Q. When you guys have gotten off to good starts, what's been different about those games?
 TAYSHAUN PRINCE: Getting off to good starts?

 Q. Yeah.
 TAYSHAUN PRINCE: Ball movement, you notice that everybody is getting good looks. That's pretty much the bottom line. Every time we get down in a game, you know, there's a tendency of we try to hurry up and get the amount back so fast instead of just playing the basketball we know we can play. Obviously against a good defensive team, you can't get down like that early.

 Q. Desperation is not a word you guys use very often. How would you describe the mindset you guys have?
 TAYSHAUN PRINCE: We have to worry about what we've got to do tomorrow. We can't look at what the future is going to do, as far as going back to Boston or whatnot. We've got to worry about what we do tomorrow, got to come out and take care of business, so we've just got to look at this next game as getting a win, and then obviously if we can do that, then it'll be the best out of three.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT