NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PISTONS v HEAT
May 24, 2005
Tayshaun Prince
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Talk about Wade why you thought he sort of had an off-night.
 
TAYSHAUN PRINCE:  We just tried to limit him getting to the paint.  He was missing easy shots.  Our guys that were in the paint had to shoot over him.  He was missing easy ones but he was missing tough ones and just never got into a good rhythm.  He'll bounce back, and we'll just have to be able to respond with better defense in Game 2. 
 
Q.  Game 3 in the regular season was like that, too.  Do you think he was just having an off-night or just the match-up is --
 
TAYSHAUN PRINCE:  It was a combination of both.  I think when Lindsey is guarding him he just tries to be aggressive on him, and me being longer and taller, I just try to keep on him and make him take tough shots.  I thought early on he missed some easy lay-ups there.  Sometimes it just goes that way and kind of dictates the game.  We'll see a different Dwyane Wade in Game 2.  
 
Q.  Where did you think Shaq was percentage-wise?  I asked a few people if he struggled. 
 
TAYSHAUN PRINCE:  Percentage-wise I don't know what he was, but he played a great game and really got in deep on us and got high percentage shots.  Obviously it's just not up to Ben and Rasheed and Elden and those guys to defend him; I think we've got to do a great job of helping out down there, but there's not much we can do, as well. 
 
Q.  Did you see a replay of the goal tend?
 
TAYSHAUN PRINCE:  I didn't see a replay.  I didn't need to; I already knew.  I mean, it happens to me about every five games.  It happens. 
 
Q.  When you looked at tape of Miami against Washington or New Jersey, what did you see that they weren't doing to Dwyane Wade that was allowing him to score so much?
 
TAYSHAUN PRINCE:  We didn't watch the Heat when they played pretty much in New Jersey series.  We watched a little bit of the Washington series the last couple games, but obviously our team was just ready to help out on the pick-and-rolls and try not to let him turn the corner quickly and get to the paint.  Like I said, we just tried to limit his ability to try to get inside because we know how well he can finish in the paint area.  I know it's a tough time for the big guys to help when they've got Shaq down there and wrestling, and tussling down there with him, but things went our way in Game 1. 
 
Q.  He said he got more frustrated than he usually does.  Could you see how much you were distracting him?
 
TAYSHAUN PRINCE:  I saw him get frustrated a couple times.  I think when you miss some easy ones, when you have that opportunity to get some easy looks and you miss them, it does get tough.  But we've all been in that position before.  The important thing from both aspects is we know how he's going to respond in Game 2, and the question is how we're going to respond trying to defend him. 
 
Q.  Is there a good feeling knowing that Rasheed and Ben are back behind you?  You guys all seem to work together after --
 
TAYSHAUN PRINCE:  We have to work together.  That's the only way it's going to work.  I think whoever is not on Shaq down there can help out a little bit more and be ready to help, and obviously the perimeter guys, Chauncey and Rip, can help a little bit, as well.  I know that's tough when Eddie and Damon are good shooters over there on the weak side, but that's the only way we're going to get it done.  
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT