NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PISTONS v CELTICS
May 21, 2008
Tayshaun Prince
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Were you surprised at the energy level that they came out with considering that they had gone to a Game 7?
 TAYSHAUN PRINCE: No, I wasn't surprised. I mean, any time you go through a Game 7 like that and you bounce right back and play at home, you know, if you get off to a good start, then things can kind of go into your favor.
 By us not getting off to the start they got off to allowed them to be in the game, I thought. 

 Q. Coach said that he thought that when you guys weren't playing that well last night, it's because it was taking you a long time to get into your offense. What do you do about that? How do you combat that?
 TAYSHAUN PRINCE: Just basically get the ball up the court faster and get into our stuff. Obviously when it takes a while to get things going, to the shot clock, either one, we're getting the ball up slow, or two, everybody is not knowing what we're doing. Guys have to be aware of what we're doing, and we've got to get it up faster.

 Q. How hard of a guard is KG? 
 TAYSHAUN PRINCE: You know what, you've got to ask the guys who guard him. Obviously if you have a seven-foot guy that can shoot and play inside, it's going to be tough. But I don't guard him. You guys ask those guys, but I know it's pretty much a tough task, especially when he's involved in pick-and-rolls.

 Q. Flip said you guys are obviously a step slow defensively. When you look at what Pierce was able to do with his dribble penetration, is it a matter of maybe forcing the ball out of his hands or cutting off his lanes, or was it just about being a little bit slow? 
 TAYSHAUN PRINCE: You know, we're a little slow on things, but more importantly, when you have a player of that caliber that can turn the corner and make plays, you've got to try to get the ball out of his hand, or his first couple dribbles got to be away from the basket. Pretty much on the majority of those pick-and-rolls we didn't do that.

 Q. Is it his first quick step?
 TAYSHAUN PRINCE: It's not so much his first step, it's the ability to know how things are going to develop. That's why from a defensive standpoint, when a player like that can make some decisions, you've got to be the one to make a decision for him. You can't let him dictate it and then we'll try to defend that after the fact. 
 As a defense, you've really got to dictate the tempo with him, and then if other guys are starting to make things happen, then we'll have to make adjustments after that. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 TAYSHAUN PRINCE: You've just got to be aggressive on whatever you do. They said a step slow, and you've just got to be aggressive in whatever you do. If you're aggressive in whatever you do, enjoy the time, mistakes ain't going to be as much as they were in the first game. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT