NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CAVALIERS v PISTONS
May 23, 2007
Tayshaun Prince
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Have you seen that team in the past and noticed personally that you could help that team win? 
 TAYSHAUN PRINCE:  I mean, of course I watched some games last year and obviously in '04, I watched those games.  And those guys did a great job.  I think for the most part the other teams weren't stepping up their game another level, and obviously, like what they say, they play together a lot throughout the regular year.  Most of those guys played together for a long time. 
 Our team, whatever we put together, it's for a short period of time, so obviously the thing is try to get a great group of guys, the best fit players around that can gel together as quickly as possible and see what happens that way.  Obviously that's what they're trying to have accomplished right now. 

 Q.  I'm assuming you weighed the possibility of getting worn down?  What went into your thinking when it came to that? 
 TAYSHAUN PRINCE:  Like I said, last year was the toughest I think of the three-year commitment as far as from my perspective because of what I had to do.  There were so many things that I had already planned prior to being asked.  Like I said, I thought the first year of the commitment was the most brutal out of all of it, especially what we've been through the past year here. 

 Q.  How much does it help having a teammate like Chauncey, also, through this? 
 TAYSHAUN PRINCE:  I mean, obviously it helps.  But at the same time, the other players, it's going to take a while to gel for those guys and for them to gel to us.  Like I said, it's only a couple weeks, three weeks that we're going to be together before games start to happen.  You know, it's going to be a quick process, but we're hoping to gel as quickly as possible. 

 Q.  When did you get the call asking you to reconsider? 
 TAYSHAUN PRINCE:  I don't know, maybe a week ago. 

 Q.  Tomorrow night are you expecting to get the full attack mode from LeBron in Game 2 for sure after what happened in Game 1? 
 TAYSHAUN PRINCE:  He was in attack mode in Game 1, he just didn't shoot as much as he normally does.  But a player is in attack mode when he's got 11 rebounds, nine assists.  The guy is in attack mode.  The fact that he didn't shoot 25 or 27 shots that he's normally been taking, I don't know what you're going to see as far as that because our defense is pretty much going to be the same, a couple adjustments here and there. 
 Obviously we're going to try to be aggressive and get the ball out of his hands and try to make other guys make plays. 

 Q.  With them trapping so much on Chauncey, do you expect to be handling the ball more at the top of the key? 
 TAYSHAUN PRINCE:  You know, we'll see how things go in Game 2.  Chauncey, keep making the right decisions, keep being aggressive off the screens and we can start to do those things.  I think we'll find of figure out the double-teams a little bit, but if I have to handle the ball a little bit more, obviously I'm willing to do that. 

 Q.  Why do you think you're slowing LeBron down better than last year? 
 TAYSHAUN PRINCE:  Just for the other four players on our team to be in the right position at the right time because, you know, my job is to keep him in front of me at all times and their job is to help when I'm -- when he gets me off the dribble.  Their job is harder than mine. 

 Q.  We haven't heard your take of that last play.  Did you expect him to go up for that lay-up? 
 TAYSHAUN PRINCE:  Obviously from my angle, me guarding him, I couldn't see who was open.  But looking at the replay, obviously it was the right play.  Obviously I didn't know where Rasheed was until I saw the film.  You know, he made the right play.  A lot of people are obviously criticizing him, but he made the right play at the right time. 

 Q.  Did he beat you?  Did he have a step on you? 
 TAYSHAUN PRINCE:  He had a step on me, but if he shot the ball and LeBron going that direction, obviously I'm long enough to make a challenging play.  But still, of course he's athletic and strong enough to make a play. 
 But like I said, I don't know what they think, but if I'm a player on that team, I'd take a wide-open three more than a contested seven-, six-foot shot. 

 Q.  How do you guys start out being aggressive, really getting out there and being aggressive right out of the box? 
 TAYSHAUN PRINCE:  Just, you know, there is no excuse not to.  You just have to -- obviously being at home, that's another important step.  The crowd and atmosphere are behind you.  You've got to come out with a lot of energy and aggressiveness.  Cleveland did a good job early on of attacking the boards.  I think when the other team attacked the rebounds and get pulled back and things like that, it kind of takes the air out of your defense a little bit and kind of gets you off to a start that you don't want. 
 You've just got to box out, be aggressive on both ends and see how things go from there. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT