SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE FOOTBALL MEDIA DAYS
July 19, 2018
Steve Hatchell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








STEVE HATCHELL: Thank you, Kevin.  Good morning.  Good to see you all.  I'm joined on the stage with
Matthew Sine, who is our Chief Operating Office.  And we divided up our activities in a couple of parts.
My part is to give a big shoutout and thank you to Greg Sankey and Southeastern Conference for coming to the College Football Hall of Fame for this wonderful event.
One of the reasons we created this was exactly why we're here today.  This is a platform for the great things about college football.  And so having you all here today in this beautiful facility is very, very important to us and very, very critical.  So we're tickled to have you here and a big thank you to Commissioner Sankey and in particular to
Herb Vincent, Charlie Hussey.  What a marvelous job they have done candidly.  It's a very, very classy event, and great showpiece for college football.
Big thank you to Dennis Adamovich, who is our executive director who runs the College Football Hall of Fame.  We're delighted with all of the work that he and his team do to make this a great, great platform for college football.
And as you noticed in the development this year, with the help of Chick-fil-A, it is now the Chick-fil-A College Football Hall of Fame.  Chick-fil-A's commitment to college football, their commitment to this facility and to the city of Atlanta is spectacular.  We were very delighted and very tickled to call it the Chick-fil-A College Football Hall of Fame.
Next I'd like to introduce Matthew.  We have some things to bring you up-to-date on the agendas for the National Football Foundation and the activities that we have going forward.  And at this time I'll ask Matthew to cover those.  Matthew?
MATTHEW SINE: Thank you and good morning.
Kevin, thank you for your work this week conducting the marathon.  Congratulations and thanks for all you do for college football.  The National Football Foundation and College Hall of Fame's programs and initiatives preserve the past, promote the present, prepare the future, and protect the game and the opportunities it provides.
Many of you are aware of our programs and initiatives, and they include, obviously, this beautiful Chick-fil-A Hall of Fame building.  We have a nationwide system of 121 chapters in 47 states that reach over 6,000 high schools and over 600,000 high school football players.
Our scholar athlete awards, which are highlighted each year by the presentation of the William V. Campbell Trophy presented to college football's top scholar athlete, which the Southeastern Conference has captured eight different times, which is the most by any conference in college football.
This year's recipient will be recognized, will be announced, at the 61st annual awards dinner in New York City on Tuesday, December 4th.  And it includes the recognition of other awards including the presentation of the Chris Schenkel Award to recently retire Texas A&M voice of the Aggies,
Dave South.  And of course, the highlight of the annual awards dinner each year is the induction of the College Football Hall of Fame class, which this year includes former University of Georgia offensive tackle, Matt Stinchcomb.  Matt, by the way, becomes the third former Campbell winner to be inducted into the College Football Hall of Fame.  He joins Florida's
Danny Wuerffel and Tennessee's Peyton Manning.
The 2019 college football ballot featured 13 different SEC players and one coach from 10 different institutions.  The 2019 class will be announced the morning of the CFP National Championship in Santa Clara.  This past winter the National Football Foundation launched its newest and quite possibly its most important initiative Football Matters.  This initiative is a campaign of positivity to promote the good in the game.
We feel by celebrating and spotlighting the game and its benefits and its opportunities, we believe we can be a unifying voice for football, create a source of ongoing good and fair information, energize an active community of supporters while creating new ones and create original programming that engages and touches every level of the game.
We plan on accomplishing these goals with comprehensive grassroots effort that reaches every part of the country through public service announcements, a 24 hour, 7 day a week news bureau, and of course, social networking.
I encourage all of you to follow us at Football Matters.  And if you don't believe football matters, let me remind you of our resent release on the growth of college football.  Participation will be at an all-time high.  778 institutions across all levels of football will be fielding a team.
You can look on the helmet wall right out here when you walk in the building, 778 schools.  In the past decade alone, 74 institutions have added football, 31 of which come within the SEC's footprint.  What it shows is that the game despite its issues and its detractor remain strong.
The National Football Foundation does not apologize for our love and support of the game, and we remain ever positive of its present and future.  Football does matter.  Thank you again for your time, attention, and support.  And again please remember to follow us on social@footballmatters.  Thank you and have a great day.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Matthew.  And thank you to you and Steve and the NFF and your support of college football in the SEC.  Thank you very much.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT