STEPHEN F. AUSTIN STATE UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 7, 2013
Brady Attaway
J.C. Harper
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








COACH HARPER:   Well, I think you've got to give all the credit to Texas Tech.   They came out here and really took it to us and played a heck of a ballgame in every way, a great football team that you can tell is going to have a great season.   Very well‑coached, everything they did seemed to be really good.

Q.   What good do you see coming from this game for your team?   What did you learn from it? 
COACH HARPER:   I think we competed.   I think we continued to play really hard throughout the game, and I think anytime you play against a topical better opponent like Texas Tech with the offensive power that they have and the defensive pressure that they put on us, I think you're going to come away with some really positive things once you look at the film and see where we improved this week from last week. 
Anytime you play someone that's better than you, you learn something.   So we're just looking forward to watching the film and seeing what we learned.   I was really proud of our guys effort.   I was proud of the way they played.   I know the score was lopsided, but I can really tell that my plan, FBS teams like Texas Tech, we've gotten better as the years have gone on in some phase of our game.   It just so happens right now on defense we're young, but I was really proud of their effort.

Q.   What did you think about your quarterback's performance tonight? 
COACH HARPER:   Oh, it was good.   I thought he did well.   I don't think he threw an interception.   I don't know the stats or anything like that.   But I'm pretty sure he didn't throw an interception.   I thought he managed the game very well.   I thought it was an excellent performance just as far as the flow of the game and everything like that.   Obviously, things that didn't go well that we might have wanted to go well, Texas Tech had everything to do with that.

Q.   How do you get your players morale up after a game like this? 
COACH HARPER:   I think it's good.   It's not great.   I mean, we're competitors.   Players want to win, but I think they understand.   I don't know.   I didn't see any quit in our football team.   I didn't see their morale as bad morale.   I think there were some positives and we saw some little victories that we can extend on, and I think once we watch the film, it's usual lie always better than you think it is.   So that's what we'll do.

Q.   What were some of those little victories? 
COACH HARPER:   Well, I think Nick Bruno, the kicker, Bruno, I thought he was excellent.   Our punt team was probably the best it's been since I've been head coach, a tremendous job.   We did a tremendous job last week, and I think it's going to be a great weapon for us.   Really confident.   I can promise you his morale isn't down.   He's probably flying high right now.   He seems to be. 
I think Brady not throwing an interception tonight.   That's got to be a little victory.   I don't know when the last time that happened.   So we're definitely going to celebrate that.   I think scoring two touchdowns on such a great football team like Texas Tech, I think that's a little victory. 
I'm not sure what kind of rushing yards we had, but I think we ran the ball decent against a Big 12 opponent.   Played a lot of players, I think that's a really positive thing.   We played everybody that came on the plane played, everybody.   So that's a big win for us because every kid got an opportunity to play in such a great environment, so they're going to grow from that.   That's a victory for us.   Obviously, Texas Tech is the far superior team.

Q.   What were your thoughts?   What did you take away from this? 
BRADY ATTAWAY:   I thought Texas Tech played great.   There were times when we'd get something started and they'd just make a play to knock us out.

Q.   What were your impressions of Baker Mayfield tonight? 
COACH HARPER:   Well, it's kind of funny you ask.   I'm glad you did.   There are two guys out there that really I was proud of.   I mean, we offered Baker.   We really wanted Baker to come to SFA.   We had a little bit of an in at the end.   The coach really I think was wanting him to take the scholarship and come to SFA, but he stuck with his guns, so to speak, and came to Texas Tech.   I told him after the game I was really proud of him and what a great decision, you know, because he made that decision himself. 
That's not an easy decision to do to turn down a scholarship and walk on, because there are no guarantees.   So it just kind of shows you what kind of player he is, how confident he is, and what kind of self‑esteem he has. 
He's a guy that we thought was a winner all along.   The other guy is Carlos Thompson.   Carlos Thompson was committed to us for two months, and when Coach Kingsbury came in in January, he offered him, and, shoot, nobody else had offered him that I'm aware of.   I think Old Dominion was the only other school that had offered Carlos.   Really proud of Carlos.   He looks like he's going to be a really good player for them.

Q.   You had a tough one last week against Weber State then, obviously, the game tonight.   How do you kind of refocus yourself for the game next week? 
COACH HARPER:   Well, it's a great thing.   We're playing at home.   Our next three weeks are at home.   That's going to be a really exciting thing to be able to be at home for three weeks.   Certainly we've been on the road for two weeks and one in Utah and the other one here.   Both of them were flights and so I think all our players are going to be really excited to come home and get started on a winning streak at home.   I don't think there will be any question in us getting ready to play.

Q.   Was there any difficulty travelwise?   Any adjustments that had to be made, travel plans?
COACH HARPER:   No, no, everything was good.   It was a great trip.   Flight was great, hotel was great, everybody was first class.   Everything was great. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT