TMS - INDIAN WELLS
March 15, 2000
Pete Sampras
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 MIKI SINGH: Questions for Pete.  
 
Q. What did you do differently in the tiebreakers this time?
 
 PETE SAMPRAS: What did I do differently? As far as? 
 
Q. He had a lifetime 4-0 lead in tiebreakers over you. I wondered whether you were
aware of that?
 
 PETE SAMPRAS: No, I'm not aware of that. That's a statistic. When you go out and play
-- it was -- kind of -- what's your question (laughter)? Tiebreaks, obviously I came back
from a 4-2 deficit in the last one and managed to squeak it out. Wayne has obviously
played me very tough over the years. He's a great shot-maker. I don't think we both played
at a very high level, but it was exciting tennis. I managed to, you know, pick off a
couple forehands cross-court, which was nice. I just kind of squeaked it out at the end. 
 
Q. Do you think you've hit as many forehands like that in a match? There were a
tremendous number. 
 
 PETE SAMPRAS: Well, yeah. I was missing a lot of them, too. I was going for a lot of
big shots. I've just relied on that shot pretty much over the past ten years. Today they
were dropping in. He was putting a lot of pressure on my service games; made me work very
hard. He's a tough guy for me to play because he's got a good all-around court game. The
forehand definitely kind of saved me today. 
 
Q. How did you feel physically on the court, the weather?
 
 PETE SAMPRAS: It was hot. No question it was a hot day. Not having played many matches
this year, you go out in the heat, I thought I handled it pretty well. I mean, we were
both a little bit tired at the end. I certainly hope I can recover okay for tomorrow. 
 
Q. Is that a fair surface?
 
 PETE SAMPRAS: Uh-huh. 
 
Q. 12 double-faults is a little atypical for you. Having a little problem today? Was it
the sun? 
 
 PETE SAMPRAS: At one point, it was a little difficult. I was going for big second
serves. When you're going for that type of speed, especially playing Wayne, who was
putting a lot of pressure on my service games, I had to go for a lot. I threw in a couple
doubles, which is going to happen when you're going for big second serves.  
 
Q. What is it about him that makes him so tough for you? Is it that he puts good
pressure on your serve?
 
 PETE SAMPRAS: Not only that; he's a very talented player, he's a great shot-maker. He
believes he can beat me. He's done it before. You know, Wayne has got as much talent as
anyone on tour. Mentally he has his ups-and-downs. He seems to obviously be very positive
when he plays me. He came up with some great shots. I was serving big. Looking at the
clock, 128, 130, he was getting it back pretty easily. He played well. I played pretty
well myself. It was a good one to get through.  
 
Q. Like to see a night match tomorrow?
 
 PETE SAMPRAS: Doesn't matter. 
 
Q. Byron thinks he has a better shot at you if you play during the day because he likes
the heat. 
 
 PETE SAMPRAS: Yeah, it was hot out there. I thought I handled it pretty well today. It
won't be an easy match because Byron will make me work a lot, doesn't miss much. Should be
a good one. 
 
Q. How does it affect the quality of play when it's so hot, and you haven't been
outdoors that much?
 
 PETE SAMPRAS: The conditions are a little bit quicker. The ball goes through the air
just a touch quicker than last night. We were both having a hard time kind of controlling
it out there. It is quicker, no question. It's quicker during the day.  
 
Q. With so many guys falling out today, have you looked at the draw, thought about how
wide open it is?
 
 PETE SAMPRAS: There are no easy draws. I mean, you look at all the upsets. If players
are ranked 30 or 40, they're capable of beating the top players. I play Byron, I'm going
to have my hands full against him. You can't look ahead in the men's game. That's really
the kiss of death.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT