ATP Tour World Championship
November 26, 1998
Pete Sampras
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Now that you accomplish your goal for this year of being for the sixth time the No.
1 in the world, what is left for next year? What is going to be your goal for next year? 
 
 PETE SAMPRAS: Well, I haven't -- 
 
 PETE SAMPRAS: That's from Mr. Tiriac. I haven't really thought much of next year. When
I have some time off in December, I'll assess my goals for next year. Obviously we start
off the year in Australia. That's going to be my first goal. But I don't think things will
change as far as my goals. It's obviously The Majors and try to stay -- I'm going to try
to stay on top for as long as possible. But this is an achievement I'll enjoy when the
year is finally over, after this week, go home and enjoy it. I put a lot into this record,
and it was worth the sacrifice. I spent a lot of time over here after the US Open, six
weeks in a row. It was well worth it. 
 
Q. Did you find it a little ironic that having worked so hard to get here, you won it
without even having to hit a ball today?
 
 PETE SAMPRAS: Well, it is a little bit ironic. I was home at the hotel eating some
pasta. There I saw he pulled out. It was kind of a weird feeling. I thought I was going to
have to win a match or win the tournament or whatever. It was just kind of ironic how it
all worked out. 
 
Q. Did you have a little celebration right there with the pasta?
 
 PETE SAMPRAS: Me and all my friends (laughter). I was by myself. Yeah, it was kind of
an awkward feeling. Like I said, I thought I was going to have to either win over the
weekend, or win the tournament. It's unfortunate for Marcelo. I mean, he had a lot of work
to do if he was going to make it to the weekend. It's not going to take away from what
I've done this year and over the past six years. 
 
Q. How many chances do you give that Jimmy Connors calls you and congratulate you?
 
 PETE SAMPRAS: Well, I haven't received any messages so far today. But it is
Thanksgiving home, so I'm sure he's busy. 
 
Q. In a curious way, does this make it even more important for you to win this title
again?
 
 PETE SAMPRAS: Well, my main goal these past couple months was to try to finish No. 1.
I've done that. Now that I'm here and I'm playing the way that I'm playing, there's no
reason why I couldn't win this weekend. It would be the icing on the cake. 
 
Q. Although you heard Marcelo had pulled out, so you'd got the record, you obviously
went out there determined to enjoy it today and show how well you're capable of playing,
and really put the icing on it?
 
 PETE SAMPRAS: Yeah. It wasn't a live match, but I'm in the semis. I still have a lot of
pride, and people came tonight to see some good tennis. I got the No. 1. I just told
myself I was just going to enjoy my tennis today, and just have some fun. I was up a set
and a break within 20, 30 minutes. I just had some fun. I was pretty loose because of the
day and the way the day was going for me. Really seemed to enjoy my tennis. I couldn't
play any better. 
 
Q. Would you see any contradictions in being No. 1 for six years in a row and maybe not
be World Champion again this week?
 
 PETE SAMPRAS: No. You know, everyone is in the same boat. If I don't win this weekend,
I don't win. But it's not going to take away from how I'm feeling right now and what I've
achieved. There's a lot of events through the year, and this is one of them. But, you
know, I'm going to go home feeling good about what I've done here. 
 
Q. We've all talked many times with you earlier in the year about the fact that you
didn't seem to be playing so well, and it was a bit of a struggle for you then. Was there
any moment that you doubted that you'd be sitting here now as the No. 1 at the end of the
year?
 
 PETE SAMPRAS: Well, a turning point me for this year was Wimbledon. If I didn't win
Wimbledon, I felt the chance of me being No. 1 was going to be pretty slim. But I won
there, and from that point on I felt I had a pretty good chance. I felt if I could have
won The Open, then I wouldn't have to play six weeks in a row. But I got a little unlucky
there and felt I needed to play a little bit more, and I did that. It was well worth it,
like I said before. Not playing so well in the first four or five months, you know, I had
to play some more at the end of the year. It's something that I had to do. Like I said, it
was worth the sacrifice. 
 
Q. Do you feel it's like a burden lifted off your shoulders? There was so much talk
about this No. 1 ranking.
 
 PETE SAMPRAS: Well, I don't look at it as a burden; I look at it as an ultimate
achievement. This is a record that I feel will probably never be broken ever, and I knew
that. I knew that over the past couple months, it was either now or never. I felt,
"This is my chance to do it." To get to No. 1 is one thing; but to stay there is
another thing. It's twice as hard. To have stayed on top for most of my career is a little
overwhelming. You see many players in the past have not handled the pressure or not enjoy
it. I'm very comfortable being No. 1, and that helps. 
 
Q. Is there one special present you're going to award yourself as a result of this?
 
 PETE SAMPRAS: I'm working on it right now. Hopefully I'll fly home in style (laughter). 
 
Q. Considering that no other sportsman has been able to finish six times in a row No.
1, do you think we can consider you the best sportsman in the world at this moment?
 
 PETE SAMPRAS: That's hard for me to answer. I feel like what I've done over six years
-- you know, I'm trying to stay humble through this whole process, but it is so difficult
to do. Guys that have been No. 1 really know what I'm saying. I'll never sit here and tell
you I'm the best ever, the best sportsman. I'll just kind of let the record speak for
itself. People that know tennis and have been around the game know how difficult it is to
stay on top. To have been on top for six straight years, it's something I'll appreciate
when I'm done playing. I'll appreciate it a little bit at the end of this year. It's so
tough to stay on top in any sport, but especially tennis where it's a one-man show. It's
something that I feel pretty proud to have achieved what I've achieved here. 
 
Q. You say you'll appreciate what you've done when you retired. Do you think the public
at-large and the media will appreciate you and what you've achieved perhaps more when you
stop playing than while you're continuing to play?
 
 PETE SAMPRAS: Well, I think in the past couple years, it's slowly beginning, with the
Grand Slam record and the No. 1 record. There's not a lot of American media here, which is
unfortunate. But it seems like we have a pretty full house here, which is great. But
you're probably right. I probably will be more appreciated when I'm done playing. I feel a
certain appreciation tonight and over the past year. I mean, when I'm 22, 23 and winning
Wimbledons and US Opens, you hear from so many years the game is not doing well, it's
boring, whatever, those are some difficult things to hear. But now that I've been doing
this for a while, there's only one thing you can really feel, and that's respect. I feel
I've gotten that respect over the past couple years. 
 
Q. Having got this record now, do you think it will give you an added impetus for the
other one, the Grand Slams?
 
 PETE SAMPRAS: Well, yeah, that's on my mind. It's been talked about quite a bit over
the past year or so. When this year is over, over Christmas, whatever, I'm going to start
getting ready for Australia. That's the next goal. But the older I get, I want to
appreciate these good times, appreciate the Wimbledon that I won this year, appreciate
what I did here, and did all year. For many years, I just kind of went on and on and
didn't really enjoy some of my victories. Now I'm going to make it a point to have a glass
of wine or whatever tonight, have a little fun. 
 
Q. With all you've achieved at the Grand Slams and your getting the record, six in a
row, has the quest for the French championship, has that diminished a little bit, or is
that still uppermost in your mind? Is that still something you'd like to do to cap it all?

 
 PETE SAMPRAS: Well, that's obviously the biggest challenge in my tennis right now, to
try to win the French. But I can't play and look at my year for just one tournament. I
can't put that much pressure on myself just for one event. I'm going to prepare the best I
can and work very hard to try to get in good shape to hopefully win there one year. That's
kind of my mind set. But I look forward to hopefully a good year next year, a little bit
more consistent. When the French comes around, hopefully my tennis will be there. 
 
Q. Is Davis Cup among your priorities or you still don't care too much about Davis Cup?
 
 PETE SAMPRAS: Well, I care about it. It's kind of a tough situation because I feel like
if I play, you know, it's a lot of tennis. If I play the first round against England.
(Arrival of congratulatory cake and champagne) 
 
 PETE SAMPRAS: I would have preferred the glass. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT