U.S. OPEN
September 8, 1996
Pete Sampras
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







PETE SAMPRAS: It's over. 

Q. So, has the crash of '96 ended?

PETE SAMPRAS: Yeah, this definitely saved my year. I mean, first two sets today I
thought I played about as well as I could. Got off to a great start. Set the tone. What
can I say? I mean, these past two weeks I have played my share of great tennis and poor
tennis and got through the Corretja match and I never thought I would be here as the
winner. But I thought hard and played the best match of the tournament today against
Michael, and so it really saves my year. It really does. It wasn't a bad year, but this
will definitely make the rest of the '96 season very enjoyable to play.

Q. Matchpoint, you put your arms in the air and you looked to the sky. What were you
thinking at that point, Pete?

PETE SAMPRAS: Well, today is Tim's birthday. He would have been 45 today and I was
thinking about him all day today and all during the match and things he told me to do on
the court and I still felt his spirit and even though he is not with us, he is still very
much in my heart and I wouldn't be here if it wasn't for his help and it was nice. I saw
Tom when I was holding up the trophy and that was a nice moment. So, I am just glad it is
over. I really -- just didn't really feel like playing another set.

Q. What are one or two things that Tim would have said to you or you thought about
before going on?

PETE SAMPRAS: He has always thought, as far as technically on the court, playing
Michael, really set the tone. His second serve is attackable and return and smack some
forehands because it is one of my best shots. That is something he would have told me. He
seen him play for so many years that he knows. I still remember things he has told me, so
that would be one thing that he would have said.

Q. When you beat Corretja, did you at that point say this is meant to be?

PETE SAMPRAS: Well, I thought it could have meant to be at the French, but we all know
what happened there. I don't know. Whatever happened, happened. Against Ivanisevic, I felt
-- I had a day off after Corretja -- maybe this was meant to be. I don't know. I mean, I
have never been a big believer in fate or destiny. I just feel you go out and play and
win. That is it. This year has been very difficult at times on and off the court and this
really leaves a very happy thought and some really good memories here.

Q. When you won in 1990, you said you were barely conscious. What was happening? How is
it different this time?

PETE SAMPRAS: Well, 1990 I really - I really couldn't appreciate what it takes to win a
major. I was just kind of playing on instinct and kind of in a zone for the past couple of
matches. In 1990 and now over the course of the years, I know what it takes to win majors.
You need to play great tennis. You need a little bit of luck on your side and back then,
it was kind of like a fantasy, the way I played, kind of a dream world and now it takes a
lot of hard work and dedication and after Wimbledon and it paid off.

Q. You came out so strong today, did you feel you were in a zone or...

PETE SAMPRAS: I felt -- yeah, I felt a little bit. When I got off, it was a great
start. My serve was there, everything was just clicking. Those are days you just dream
about, especially in a final and I knew he would come around and start playing better and
he did in the third set. He served a lot better and made it tight and I played real solid
tiebreaker, hit some good shots and it was one of my best matches I played in my career. I
mean, Michael the way he played against Andre, I knew it was going to be a tough battle.

Q. Did you play more different -- kind or beat more different kinds of games in this
tournament than in others; you beat Chang's kind of game, Ivanisevic's game?

PETE SAMPRAS: You know, it is hard to say. Each, you know, it is such a contrast
playing yesterday against Goran. You don't know what he is going to do; what he is going
to serve. Michael, you kind of know what to expect. He is going to be -- stay back. It is
a huge contrast. I have played some Majors where I have had a lot of different styles of
players, Corretja who stayed back and played kind of a clay court match. You just have to
adapt and I did that well today.

Q. You look back at the history head-to-head with Michael which match do you think
turned that around for you --

PETE SAMPRAS: I can't remember. I don't know. I don't know. I mean, there was a time
where four, five years ago, I was having a lot of trouble against Michael. He was beating
me a number of times. I don't know where I beat him. I eventually started getting a hold
of his game and playing better and beat him last four, five times.

Q. Eight or nine?

PETE SAMPRAS: Eight or nine.

Q. Is this win sweet enough for you to forget all of your losses this year?

PETE SAMPRAS: Well, the losses have been forgotten for quite a while. You mean what
happened at Wimbledon and the French, it happened and it is over, and just try to look
ahead, but, you know, my main goal when it is January 1 is to win a major title, and this
is my last chance to do it and I did it. So, in a lot of ways, I didn't feel like there
was a lot of pressure that my career was over after this if I didn't win it, but I'd say
it is a great way to end.

Q. Was there a risk that you might have been putting too much pressure on yourself?

PETE SAMPRAS: Not really. The overall picture, I am only 25 and it is not like this is
it for me. I mean, I am going to have many more Majors ahead of me and, you know,
eventually work hard enough, you are going to win some, and this one is - was the most
difficult. I think I have won because of the way I felt physically against Corretja and
just past couple of months - this is sweet.

Q. Are you proud of yourself right now?

PETE SAMPRAS: I am, even though, I am pretty stoic. I was in the back with all the boys
and real happy, and I am pumped, I really am. I felt -- I just was so glad that shot was
out on matchpoint. I just wanted it to be over, you know, Michael, he doesn't give you an
inch. He really doesn't. Always fights to the end and I am pumped. I am really happy.

Q. What is the schedule for the rest of the year?

PETE SAMPRAS: I have a couple of weeks off and I play some events over in Europe, Basel
and Paris and Stuttgart and ATP Finals in Hannover and -- over in Europe I will be
playing.

Q. Four events?

PETE SAMPRAS: Yeah, about four or five events.

Q. Does the fact that Michael is so stubborn make winning this that much better, that
you had - that he challenged you; didn't lay down at any point?

PETE SAMPRAS: Well, I don't think anyone would lay down at this situation, whoever I
played in the final. I mean, everyone - whoever I would play today, if it was Andre,
wouldn't have laid down, but Michael especially, is a feisty player. He is so competitive
and wouldn't give me a point. He is a very tough guy to beat. He makes you earn every
point you win, so, you know, it is a rivalry that I have had since we were seven, eight
years old growing up in California. I battled with him through the juniors and pros, and,
you know, we both have come along way from the junior days and it is a rivalry that will
continue, I believe. I mean, he is obviously a great player.

Q. Would it surprise you that he was just in here and he said a couple of things, one,
that you are a lot older than he is - ( audience laughter)?

PETE SAMPRAS: A lot taller too. 

Q. Right (audience laughter) He said that he is not going away; that he will be
pursuing you for a long time. Does that surprise you? 

PETE SAMPRAS: That doesn't surprise me at all. Michael earns his wins and makes his
living fighting and fighting and fighting and that is his character. That is what makes
him a champion and he will be around for the next five, six, seven-- ten years. So he is
-- all the guys, Courier, Agassi, Martin -- just go down the list, Michael is going to be
one of those guys that is going to be threatening to take the top spot and win major
titles.

Q. What makes you a champion? You said that is what makes Michael a champion?

PETE SAMPRAS: I feel like I can do some things, you know, I can my serve and I can stay
back and hit the forehand pretty well. I feel like, you know, I have got a pretty good
all-around court game. If things aren't working well in one area, I can rely on something
else. I don't know. I mean, that is something I really don't think about.

Q. Nothing just technical?

PETE SAMPRAS:

Q. Anything other than technical?

PETE SAMPRAS: Well, I don't know, I will let you guys conclude that.

Q. You look at your contemporaries and Michael talked about this a little bit growing
up and Jim and Andre and David and him and you, yet you are the guy who has got the lion's
share of the titles now. Who, going back to those junior years, who is the guy you thought
was like really going to be the big player if anyone?

PETE SAMPRAS: All of them. I mean, I always felt Michael and Andre, especially Andre
when he was growing up in the juniors by far, of the other guys, he was the most talented;
just a matter of him putting it together and Michael -- I didn't know Michael was going to
win the French. I thought maybe at such a young age and I think the fact that we had each
other to play against and the competition, you know, it really made us better players. We
grew up together battling, but I would have to say, you know, all those guys you
mentioned, I expected to be in the top 10, top 20 and -- but it was a good rivalry.

Q. Do you think no matter what happens this year you are pretty much No. 1 on the year;
you can relax?

PETE SAMPRAS: At this point the ranking can just -- you know, playing today the ranking
was up for grabs and I wanted the title. The title is so much more important to me than
the ranking. You know, so whatever happens the rest of the year, if I am ended No. 2 or
No. 3, I have achieved what I wanted to achieve this year and that was to win a major and
so that is it.

Q. Michael was saying that there is always a lucky shot somewhere along the way. He
cited Becker's net cord against Rostagno in 1989. Would you put it down to that second
serve ace?

PETE SAMPRAS: Yeah, that was against Corretja? 

Q. Yeah. 

PETE SAMPRAS: Yeah, that was the single shot that I don't know where that came from. I
think it came from the man upstairs. 

Q. Tim?

PETE SAMPRAS: Tim. Came from Tim. That shot, I will never forget and the reaction of
the crowd was awesome. I will never forget those moments when I really could feel the
crowd chanting my name Pete and to win, that was awesome. You know, just decided I really
didn't want to play the point. I wanted to hit a wide side and it went a lot better than I
thought it would.

Q. Understanding that you have been concentrating on winning the title, have you
started to get a feel for how intrigued people were with that Corretja match? They are
still talking about it. 

PETE SAMPRAS: Yeah, I purposely, the day after the match, I didn't come out to the
site. I didn't really -- unfortunately for you guys -- didn't want to talk about it
because I wanted to prepare for Goran, but, you know, everyone has been talking about it
and just with the crowd and the vomiting and all that stuff, I guess it was dramatic
(audience laughter). 

Q. That is a word. 

PETE SAMPRAS: So I don't know what to say, I mean, maybe over the next couple of years
I will reflect on and see the tape of the match and appreciate it a little bit more than I
do now.

Q. Today you came out a half an hour before the match began; hit some balls before the
squeegees were even put away. Were you chomping at the bit before you got going and did
that help you get such a good start?

PETE SAMPRAS: I got down to the referee's room. I always do that before the match. I
was sitting there 2, 3 hours watching the ballgame. You are cooped up all day not really
doing anything, it is good to get out and get some fresh air; hit some balls; move around,
kind of break a little sweat. I did that. I don't know if it helped me get off to a great
start, but I will do it again if it works.

Q. How many Grand Slams have you won?

PETE SAMPRAS: You should know that. 

Q. I do. 

PETE SAMPRAS: Eight.

Q. Do you know who is next? I'd like to get as many as I can. I'd like to be on the
list. 

PETE SAMPRAS: Yeah, that I think the fact that I have won a number of them over the
past three or four years, the more I want to win them. The other titles are nice, but when
it is all and said and done, you look at your career, these matches are going to stand
out, the match against Agassi is going to stand out last year and all the Majors that I
have won so far will stand out. It is not the money. It is not the commercials. The
titles, that is what I will be remembered for and I will think about that a lot.

Q. Since you are so far ahead of your contemporaries in your Grand Slam titles, is it
the old guys that are your real competition?

PETE SAMPRAS: No, everyone is competition. 

Q. Is the French looming before you since it is the one major you haven't won?

PETE SAMPRAS: I rather not talk about the French (audience laughter) Yeah, I have
thought about it, but once it comes around next year, I will prepare a little bit better
than I did this year and now I know I can win there with the players I beat there and a
surface I feel that I can play well on. I just need a little bit of luck on my side and
hopefully one day I can win it. You know, it is in my thoughts, but I don't think about it
a lot.

Q. Is the quarterfinal or the win tonight, in your own mind, is your winning last year
a special moment --

PETE SAMPRAS: I do not think you can put the one over the other. I mean, last year was
a huge moment for Andre and myself. He was the hottest player on the Tour and so much
media hype and, you know, a lot of pressure at stake and they are both huge matches, you
can't put one over the other. I think this one I got through some tough matches against
Novak and Corretja, maybe this could be a little sweeter, but they are all big.

Q. Why does one basketball team always win 120 to 118, it seems that there is a will
factor involved?

PETE SAMPRAS: Well, I don't know if it is so much a will. I think it is the game. I
think it is the guy you are playing. I feel like my game matches up pretty well against
Michael. I can serve well. I can rally with him, and Michael pretty much has to do what he
does best, that is, stay back and grind and come in when he has to. The thing against
Michael if you are not playing well, if you are not serving well, it is a tough day. That
is, but if I am playing well, I will be dominating and setting the tone, then I believe
the match will go my way, so you know, when it comes to a fifth set, you know, then it
comes down to will and heart and fortunately we didn't have to go through that.

Q. You talked about the crowd Thursday night. Today it seemed a little bit dead, you
were waving the racket actually for the fans to get up and cheer. Had you ever had to do
that before?

PETE SAMPRAS: Well, the first couple of sets were smooth and they were trying to get
Michael into the match and I could feel the crowd trying to spur him on and I just -- I am
also American, so (audience laughter) but I think the crowd wanted to see more tennis, I
could understand that. It was a very long day for everyone and -- but that tiebreaker was
a big moment. 

Q. Do you feel like you have the mental, physical and emotional stamina to play at this
level and pay the price you pay for another three to five years, say?

PETE SAMPRAS: With some rest and good schedule I believe I can. There is no reason why
I can't continue to work hard and even though it is an emotional grind, I do have some
time off to regroup; get the batteries charged up again and, you know, prepare my schedule
for the Majors and go from there. So I don't see there is no reason why I can't continue
to play at this level and contend for major titles and continue to work hard. 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT