U.S. OPEN
August 27, 1996
Pete Sampras
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Are you happy with your game, Pete.

PETE SAMPRAS: Yeah, pretty happy. It was weird. It was about 20 minutes before I went
off to play Voinea. The referee came in and said, "You're not playing him; he
sprained his ankle." Weird to play someone I've never heard of or seen play. I
thought I got off to a good start. I played and hit the ball well. A good match to get
through because the first match of the Majors, always a little unsettling sometimes, not
sure where your form is.

Q. Is the idea, Pete, to jump on him right away and give him no hold in the match?

PETE SAMPRAS: Yeah, try to set the tone early, get off to an early break. That's what I
did. Really didn't give him a chance to get into his game. That was my main concern, to
kind of set the tone. I did that pretty well.

Q. You talked on television about an odor, smell to this tournament. Can you be more
precise about that. 

PETE SAMPRAS: It was one of the practice courts. It's right next to a dumpster, and you
can smell it. This Major is so much different than all the rest. You have the crowd that
is always moving around, always pretty noisy. You just come in here and try to block it
out, play your tennis. This place has been very good to me over the years. I hope it still
is. A special place, where my life changed in 1990. When I walk back on this court, when I
got here earlier this week, brought back a lot of good memories. It's been very good to
me.

Q. Do you ever think of that as a weapon, you know, how to deal with people moving
around and the dumpster and everything, maybe your opponent won't be so prepared for that?

PETE SAMPRAS: I don't know. I mean, I think that's probably his first time on the
center court. I've been on it many times. I kind of know what to expect with the crowd,
the court, how it plays. It's a little bit of an advantage.

Q. Not having won a Grand Slam this year, how much more eager does that make you?

PETE SAMPRAS: I'm always eager to walk into a Major. This here hasn't been a bad year.
I've always measured my year on how I do at the Majors. I have yet to do one. It's not
like I have to score them, not like this is my last US Open. I'm 25. It would be great to
win this again, like last year. If it doesn't happen, it doesn't happen. I'll try my best
and hopefully I can do it.

Q. Did you know anything about today's opponent?

PETE SAMPRAS: No. I just knew he was from South America, stayed back, played with a lot
of spin, pretty good all-around court player. Didn't have a big serve, but I thought he
played pretty well. Paul just told me a couple things to expect. It's always nice to kind
of go out there knowing.

Q. When did you find out who -

PETE SAMPRAS: I found out about 20 minutes before I walked on.

Q. Didn't give you a leap in your heart?

PETE SAMPRAS: No. It was, "Wow." I was prepared to play Voinea. I heard he
sprained his ankle last week. I was expecting him to be ready to play here. The referee
walked in and said, "You're playing this guy, lucky loser." You just have to
prepare and do it.

Q. Do you remember the day when you were in his shoes, when you were playing somebody -

PETE SAMPRAS: I don't know, in the late '80s, '88, '89, when I played a top guy, maybe
Lendl. A match doesn't really stick out in my mind. I can't think of one. 

Q. Don't remember being scared that you're going to look silly out there?

PETE SAMPRAS: I don't know. I'm trying to think. I don't know. A match I played against
Chang when he won the French Open, I was embarrassed losing 1, 1 and 1. That was a bit
embarrassing. That kind of sticks out like a sore thumb.

Q. Pete, did you hear Andre's comments last night about the seeding controversy?

PETE SAMPRAS: No.

Q. He said, "I was a little disappointed with the ATP choosing this as their
platform or choosing this as their fight to fight. The Grand Slams have been doing this
for years. The ATP has used the US Open for a platform to announce many things, including
the start of their Tour. Then for them, the USTA, to make an admitted mistake and for the
ATP to prey upon it, to somehow take advantage of the situation in their backyard is
disappointing and I can't be a part of that."

PETE SAMPRAS: As far as the seeding and all that stuff, I was shocked, I was surprised.
I mean, I can accept Wimbledon changing seeds because of the surface, very unique, very
fast. When I heard about the seed change, it just opened up a whole can of warms. It's
their right, their tournament, they can do what they want. I was surprised. I think at
this point in time, we just have to go out and play. What happened with the draw and the
seeds is over now.

Q. But you, as much as anyone else, have been critical of Best 14. The ATP rankings are
based on Best 14. Why have a problem with a tournament like this going off of the Best 14
and seeding it the way they want to seed it?

PETE SAMPRAS: For me it's really the surface. It's hardcourt, it's a fair surface. The
guy that plays in Europe on clay can play well on hardcourt. I can accept Wimbledon
changing their seeds because of the surface. To change it here is something that I really
didn't agree with. If there's a surface that's changed, it should be grass or etch clay. A
hardcourt surface is a fair surface. Guys from Europe can play well on it, so I was
surprised.

Q. Pete, to play against a player --

PETE SAMPRAS: I can't hear you.

Q. How much of an advantage is it for a player to play against a player that never
played on center court?

PETE SAMPRAS: It's a little bit. I've been out there a little bit more than he has. A
little bit of an advantage. I don't think he was that intimidated by the situation, maybe
a little bit. It's not a big deal.

Q. Do you think the timing of the announcement was a major factor? For example, had
they said they were going to change the seedings around six months ago instead of waiting
till the last minute?

PETE SAMPRAS: I think it's maybe something the players could have accepted a little
better than basically the day of the draw. If they could have forewarned us, maybe we
could have swallowed it a little bit better. The way they did it was basically surprising.

Q. How long did it take you to get over losing to Krajicek at Wimbledon? Was it any
tougher than some of the other tough losses you had?

PETE SAMPRAS: It was hard. The way I was playing that week, leading up to the Krajicek
match I felt pretty good. I felt like I was in shape to do it four in a row. I just ran
into a player that was very hot, playing very well, went out to win the tournament. It was
hard to accept. A couple points here and there, I could have won it. You can't kill
yourself over it, you just have to move on. Fortunately in this game, there's always a big
tournament around the corner. Here we are at the Open.

Q. Edberg is playing today, leading in the first set. Who knows, this could be his last
match. Do you have any thoughts?

PETE SAMPRAS: If you're looking for a role model for kids, I think he's your guy. He's
one of the nicest guys we have on the Tour. He just goes out and plays. I've always looked
up to him when I turned pro, the way he presented himself, just a class act on and off the
court. You think of him, the way he played in the year he defended his title, won four
straight five-setters, beat me in the final, that was a great effort. He'll be missed when
he leaves.

Q. Did he surprise you in that Open? He always sort of had an image of being a cool
customer, and he really showed a lot of heart.

PETE SAMPRAS: It didn't surprise me with Stefan. I think he was about 1 or 2 in the
world at the time. Didn't surprise me. He's someone that's pretty quiet and not emotional,
but deep down I think he's got it. He's won five, six majors, has had a great career.

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT