THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 29, 1996
Pete Sampras
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 

Q.  How tough is it to let that slip away? 
 
PETE SAMPRAS: It's disappointing.  For the first set, he wasn't really in the match and he just kind of hung around and I started pressing a little bit, missed a couple of shots and before I knew it, it was one set all, you know, I definitely had my chances, breakpoints throughout the whole second set and Goran just kind of wings it, you know, he went for a second serve ace, hit the ace, you know, he puts a lot of pressure on your service games because he serves so big and he just -- I was pressing a little bit and missed a couple of careless shots in the third set and that's really all it is.  I definitely had my chances.  
 

Q.  Did the rain delay really bother you? 
 
PETE SAMPRAS: It is hard to say really (Czech the set number).  It probably didn't help, but that's not the reason I lost.  
 

Q.  You think it helped him a lot? 
 
PETE SAMPRAS: Maybe he calmed down a little bit and kind of regained his composure.  I still had some chances.  His first service game had a couple of breakpoints.  I just didn't convert, you have to convert against Goran.  You only get so many chances and I just didn't take advantage of them.  
 

Q.  It is funny because a huge day of serving today? 
 
PETE SAMPRAS: No, he didn't serve well at all, especially for the first set, I think he made only two first serves, you know, the thing that's dangerous is his second serve is just as good, puts a lot of spin and it is tough to get back.  I felt that I played him, you know, definitely for the first set and a half and he just kind of hung around, that was really it.  
 

Q.  Did you have some grip problems? 
 
PETE SAMPRAS: It was really humid.  The racket was slipping in my hand.  I was just switching grips on the changeovers, so it was pretty humid tonight.  
 

Q.  On the three all in the third, you start to make more mistakes, was something bothering you, something happening to you? 
 
PETE SAMPRAS: No, I just started pressing and missing and, you know, went for it and missed a couple of forehands and at that was it.  
 

Q.  Do you notice any kind of difference in his game or is it exactly what you expected from Goran, there has been a lot of talk about him working on his -- working from the back, adding things in? 
 
PETE SAMPRAS: It is pretty much the same, still going to serve real big and go for his groundies, but I haven't seen any huge changes.  Maybe mentally he is a little bit stronger than he was a couple of years ago.  
 

Q.  Did he seem to be making fewer, shall we say unusual choices on shots that he takes? 
 
PETE SAMPRAS: Was he what?  
 

Q.  You know, he used to have a habit, he would make the most unusual choices of shots, stuff you just wouldn't expect, is he becoming more conservative in that sense? 
 
PETE SAMPRAS: No, not really, no.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT