IBM/ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 18, 1995
Pete Sampras
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Pete, you got off to a sort of bad start. Did you always feel that you were trying
to play catchup after that?
 
 PETE SAMPRAS: A little bit. I mean, I started off the first three, four games feeling
like I was hitting the ball pretty well, moving well, and I got off to a tough, tough, you
know, early break and, you know, he was serving well on the big points. It just seemed
like throughout the match I never really found my range and Michael was, you know, playing
very well; returning my serve well; really was taking my best shot away and that was my
serve. I had a couple of chances to get back into the match and maybe we could have still
been playing out there right now, but he just won the important points today and that was
really the difference. I just felt I just was making too many errors, too many -- just
simple groundstrokes errors and he was coming in, dictating play, and I was the one just
kind of on my heals throughout the whole match. And that was not really the game plan I
had going into today's match, but, you know, I just wish I could have just played a little
bit better. 
 
Q. Michael seems to have become a much more aggressive player in the last year. Would
you say this is true --
 
 PETE SAMPRAS: Yes. 
 
Q. -- Ratio of aces, first serves, all that?
 
 PETE SAMPRAS: Yeah. 
 
Q. Is that something that you were prepared to deal with or were you surprised by the
amount of attacking he did?
 
 PETE SAMPRAS: I knew if I hit the short ball, he was going to come in and I played him
at the Australian and he must have hit 19, 20 aces, so, I knew his serve improved quit a
bit over the past couple of years and 15-30, 30-All point, he was coming in with the big
ace, that is something he didn't have four years ago, but he improved that part of the
game. He is coming in, attacking the short ball. You can't afford to hit short balls
against him, so, I think he realized that if he is going to get to the top five, top four
in the world, he is going to have to do that. And he has done that.  
 
Q. How disappointing is this for you? I mean, you obviously felt that this was your
tournament?
 
 PETE SAMPRAS: Yeah, I played real well here in Frankfurt; had a good week; got to the
semis, but I don't play tournaments to get to the semis or get to the finals. I come here
to win them, and I just wish I could have played a little bit better. I don't mind losing
as much if I could have just played better, plain and simple, if I could have just found
my range, but, you know, I got to bounce back from this defeat and go to Moscow for the
Davis Cup Final and Munich and then the year is finally over. 
 
Q. Are you going home in the meantime?
 
 PETE SAMPRAS: Yeah. 
 
Q. You played very well against Becker in the second day. Do you find you had to play
too well maybe very soon in the tournament and then went down?
 
 PETE SAMPRAS: No, not really. I felt I played well against Boris. I mean, Boris and
Michael are two different players and I was ready for both matches. I just didn't play as
well today as I did against Boris. I don't think -- if you are asking me if I thought I
peaked too early, I don't think I did. I thought I played pretty well the first couple of
matches and today I just had an off day. It is plain and simple. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT