THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 26, 1995
Pete Sampras
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q.  Did you feel you played cautiously at the end?

 PETE SAMPRAS:  Well, I kind of played cautiously in the middle
of the second set.  I had him Love-40 and really wasn't quite
aggressive on those points.  Basically, I just kind of waited
for Andre to miss and he is just too good.  He is not going to
make errors.  And -- but when it came down to the breaker, I did
get a little cautious; he really kept me deep.  He didn't really
give me an opportunity to come in and do what I wanted to do.
 He really served pretty well in the breaker and really just came
down to a couple of points and he got them today.  So it is disappointing,
and I just have to get back on that horse; get ready for the third,
I guess.

 Q.  Second half of the match on service returns, you are sitting
back about three feet behind the baseline trying to topspin him
deep with not too much pace on it; what is your thinking on that
strategy?

 PETE SAMPRAS:  I just wanted to try to keep the ball in play;
keep it high and wait for my opportunity to come in.  You know,
I don't want to make lots of errors and try to press it.  I wanted
to make him play, hit the high topspin shot.  I don't think he
particularly enjoys the high shot, but he seemed to handle it
pretty well.

 Q.  Is that a strategy change you made during the match or
game plan?

 PETE SAMPRAS:  You just kind of feel it out as you are playing,
you know, whatever works, and that is what I decided to do, and
obviously it didn't workout for me at the end.

 Q.  First set, it looked like you were a step above.  Did
you slow down your serve for Agassi?

 PETE SAMPRAS:  I think it was a combination of both.  I was playing
really well in the first; in the middle of the second and he just
basically steamrolled me for about three, four games, before I
knew it was one set-all.  Even though he just, I think, won 19
points in a row, it is still one set-all.  He is going to have
to maintain that level to beat me, and unfortunately I had some
chances there in the third and some long deuce games.  But I think
looking back, it just came down to one or two points and he got
them today.

 Q.  Can you explain your problems with tiebreakers?

 PETE SAMPRAS:  I don't know.  I really can't explain it.  I wish
I could win some more of them. Tiebreakers usually come down to
a couple of points.  I am just not getting the breaks and I am
1 and 8, I think, now and that is usually one of my strengths
last year; I had a winning record.  And this year it is just,
I don't know, I am just maybe not playing them that well.  It
is something that I am not having a mental problem with.  It is
just -- I am just not winning them.

 Q.  How troublesome was the wind today?

 PETE SAMPRAS:  Swirly.  I had just as much trouble with the sun.
 The sun was right there.  You really had to move the ball around
on the serve.  I didn't serve well enough to beat him.  I didn't
feel on  -- my first serve percentage, felt like it was pretty
low.  The wind on that stadium kind of swirls around. It is not
like it goes in one direction where you can adapt.  It was a little
bit of a factor, but not really the turning point of anything.


 Q.  So much of this match you were having trouble focusing
in your forehand down the line for winners.  Was it the wind that
was wiggling the ball at the last minute?

 PETE SAMPRAS:  No, just missing them.  I was going for it and
I was made some, missed some.  That is kinds of the way I play.
 Just kind of go for it.

 Q.  The wind was a factor?

 PETE SAMPRAS:  I don't think much.  It was a little bit windy,
but it wasn't unbearable.

 Q.  Talking about chances looking back.  Do you think that
those three breakpoints at 2-2 would be the actually turning point?

 PETE SAMPRAS:  I think so in the second set turned the whole
match around.  If I could have converted there and just kept them
that momentum hopefully serve a little bit better at that point,
but I didn't, I just was not aggressive enough on those breakpoints
and waited for him to miss; he is not going to miss and from there
he broke me at love.  That was the second set, but I was disappointed,
but it is still one set-all; there is another set to play, basically
you just have to look ahead and not worry about what happened
the previous 4 games.

 Q.  After a match like this, are you even more excited about
playing Andre?

 PETE SAMPRAS:  We definitely hopefully can get tennis more popular
and hopefully I can make him a better player.  He can make me
a better player and with, you know, our personalities being a
little different our games, I think it is something that is really
great for the game and I am happy to be a part of it.  To have
a match like this really could have gone either way great for
the game; the fans really enjoyed it.  That makes me feel good.
 Sure, I am a little disappointed and just have to hop on the
plane over to Palermo; give it my best shot this weekend.

 Q.  What, in your mind, is the biggest difference between
your two personalities?

 PETE SAMPRAS:  I am much more reserved and conservative and Andre
is (pause) not.

 (audience laughter).

 Q.  Since so much of your game is predicated on your serve
and particularly your first serve, when you don't do that well
as happened today, does it make a little frustrating for you to
find some other weapon to attack him with?

 PETE SAMPRAS:  It makes it very tough to play Andre when you
are not serving well.  You got to -- on my second -- serve and
volley on my second serve, I can, but I am not going to win a
lot of points that way.  I just figured, stay back and hopefully
beat him from the backcourt.  I can't do that for a whole match.
 He does that as well as anyone.  I just-- I needed to serve better
and that was the one shot that let me down a little bit, but,
you know, anyway, I still had some chances and, you know, like
I say, could have gone either way.

 Q.  The Italian team has been there practicing for two weeks
on clay.  Do you think you have enough time to get ready for clay
court?

 PETE SAMPRAS:  Well, I am going to get their Monday late and
basically have Tuesday, Wednesday Thursday to get ready, and have
never really been in this situation before, and I will let you
know on Friday if I do have enough time.  But they have definitely
been there and used to the time change.  I have to get used to
the court and the jet lag; all that stuff, and hopefully, the
bottom line, is coming out with a victory anyway we can get it.


 Q.  As the points are pointing up in this 19 point streak,
what are your thought processes what are you thinking about?

 PETE SAMPRAS:  Well, just thinking -- nothing you can think about.
 Just have to try something different or take your time a little
bit more, but, you know, after he broke me, he just raised his
level an extra notch.  I just kind of slowly gradually went down
and -- but that was the turning point at 3-2, Love-40 game when
I had three breakpoints, that was the momentum switch.

 Q.  Did that shake your confidence?

 PETE SAMPRAS:  No.  I pretty much held on serve all the way through
the tiebreaker; didn't really shake my confidence.

 Q.  Does the fact he is playing so well, is that a bit like
reassuring as you are about to stride in a battle alongside him;
make you feel a bit better about the match?

 PETE SAMPRAS:  No, I mean, what can I say?  I lost another tough
tiebreaker in the third and I could have been easily the winner
here.

 Q.  I mean, with a view to next week.

 PETE SAMPRAS:  What was your question?

 Q.  Well, the fact that he is playing so well and you know,
for the first time experience, how well he is playing, does that
make you feel a bit better more confident about --

 PETE SAMPRAS:  Sure, I mean, absolutely.  He is a great teammate
to have in Davis Cup.  He has played some great tennis and, yeah,
I like our chances even though we are not going to have a ton
a time to prepare.  Andre is one of the best clay courters in
the world.  I am getting better.  Hopefully, we can come through
with a victory.  We have a solid doubles team. I am kind of looking
forward to it.

 Q.  As far as you know unless somebody takes a wildcard, do
you next have the opportunity to meet Andre at the French Open;
is that the next possible?

 PETE SAMPRAS:  I think he is going to Asia. I am over in Europe,
so I don't know if he is playing  -- he might be playing Rome.
 I don't know what he is doing, but the French is definitely in
our cites.

 GREG SHARKO:  Anything else for Pete? Thanks...

 End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT