THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 24, 1995
Pete Sampras
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 GREG SHARKO:  Pete has been named the IBM/ATP charity sports
men of the week and $5,000 will be donate had in his name to the
N. J. T. L. Chapter. Also before we begin this will be the 7th
meeting between the two, since in the last year and Pete has won
4 of the previous 6 during this '94, 95 season.

 Q.  What is the other one besides the Australian that he lost?

 GREG SHARKO:  The other loss, it was Paris indoor.  This will
be the first one versus 2 semifinal here since 1988.  And Pete
will also attempt to become the first 3 time winner in the 11
year history of the tournament.  All right questions for Pete.


 Q.  Looks a bit like Davis Cup to me.  How does it feel like
to be up 2-Love to be in Davis Cup?

 PETE SAMPRAS:  I don't get it.

 Q.  Together with Agassi.  Bjorkman being Swedish.

 PETE SAMPRAS:  Oh, oh.

 Q.  Does it give you a feeling of how it could be like to
play with Agassi in Davis Cup?

 PETE SAMPRAS:  Well, what are you talking about?  Are you talking
about the match against Sweden in the semis or being teammates
with him?

 Q.  Okay.

 PETE SAMPRAS:  I have been teammates with Andre a number of times
and we are going to play on Sunday, fly together over to Palermo
on Monday and that is it.

 Q.  Pete, you know after that first set there, second set
big difference.  What seemed to really snap out of that?

 PETE SAMPRAS:  Well, I was playing it simple got outplayed in
the first set got off to a slow start.  He was playing well returning
as well as he can return an serving pretty big on the big points
and I just really raised my level a couple of notch chest in the
second and then kind of just maintained that for the most part
in the third until I had a bit after hiccough there at 4-Love
and lost my serve.  I return the pretty well the one thing I didn't
do that great was serve.  My first serve percentage really didn't
feel like it was that great.  But it felt like I am hitting the
ball well and moving well, so Sunday's match should be some good
tennis.

 Q.  How hard has it been not looking ahead to final possibly
playing Andre I am sure you have to somewhere be thinking about
that at times no matter how much you try to concentrate on the
match at hand?

 PETE SAMPRAS:  Well, obviously whenever I come into this room
it is something that I tend to talk about.  Like that old cliché
one match at a time you guys hate hearing it.  It is the fact.
 You can't look ahead.  Andre came close to losing today.  I came
close to losing yesterday, so it is not like we are planning on
playing the finals every week.  These guys are out to beat us
and -- but we have made it so far and so we will see what happens
on Sunday.

 Q.  Could you sort of deep out the way the match will probably
go on Sunday between you and Andre?

 PETE SAMPRAS:  Dope out?

 Q.  That is a Miami saying.

 PETE SAMPRAS:  I am sure you have seen us play before.  It is
a pretty straightforward match.  I will be coming in and, you
know, he will be staying back and it is basically we know what
each other is going to do it is just a matter of who does it better
and who feels better Sunday morning.  I certainly feel -- I hope
I feel better than I did last year.  It is going to be good tennis
two guys that are very different so I think people like to see
a bit after contrast.

 Q.  Were you aware that he lead a crowd chant after his match
today Pete, Pete, Pete? Did you hear about that?

 PETE SAMPRAS:  No.

 Q.  He obviously wanted this match on Sunday. Was this something
that you wanted to see?

 PETE SAMPRAS:  Yeah, I feel like I really need to be at my best
hopefully Andre and I had can bring tennis to a new level an get
a more exciting for the fans and for little kids, and you know
we really bring out the best in each other.  There is definitely
a lot of respect there with Andre and myself, and, you know, time
will tell if we can get that rivalry going like kind of a Borg/McEnroe
did, but I am looking forward to it.  I am sure he is.  It is
like 2 heavyweights going at it.  It should be fun for the fans.
 I am sure we will enjoy it.

 Q.  There was that joking remark he made after the final in
Indian Wells about telling his dad he was going to kick your rear
end.

 PETE SAMPRAS:  You can say it, as.

 Q.  How about some comment on that.

 PETE SAMPRAS:  Well, he was just having some fun.  Andre likes
to have some fun every now and again.  It wasn't anything malicious.
 I am sure he wants to date me and you guys know I want to beat
him.

 GREG SHARKO:  Anything else?

 Q.  Medvedev is not coming in?

 PETE SAMPRAS:  Oh, no.  Bjorkman, you mean.

 GREG SHARKO:  Thanks.

 End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT