NEWSWEEK CHAMPIONS CUP
March 11, 1995
Pete Sampras
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 GREG SHARKO:  Pete now assures himself remaining No. 1 next week
going into the Lipton Championships.

 Q.   Is that a relief?

 PETE SAMPRAS:  No, not really.  I mean, if you need to take a
picture.

 Q.   Yes.

 PETE SAMPRAS:  Go ahead.  Let us stop the whole thing and take
the picture.  Go ahead.

 Q.   I will take a picture.

 PETE SAMPRAS:  If he over takes me, which he could in the next
three, four weeks, whatever, I could accept that.  He has won
the last two major tournaments and the way the ranking system
is working out he could overtake me.  I can live with that, but
it is a long year.  There is a lot of tennis yet to be played.
 No. 1 at the end of the year is really the occasion in my mind
of is who is the best for the year.

 Q.   From the sounds of it, you've accepted the fact that
there is a very strong possibility and you don't seem that upset
or concerned if the ranking does  change hands?

 PETE SAMPRAS:  Just looking at the whole -- the next three, four
months, I have won a lot of events, and he really didn't play
a lot last year, so not playing the whole summer, for me, really
hurt me as far as my ranking is concerned, but if it happens,
you know, it is not end of the world; life goes on.  Sure, I'd
rather be No. 1, but it is much more important for me to be No.
1 at end of the year, so that is my overall goal.

 Q.   Talking about the ranking system, do you have any preference?
 They are going to make changes, they say, next week.

 PETE SAMPRAS:  Well, I think the only gripe I have, I feel like
every time you walk out on the court it should count and with
the ranking system they have now, that is not the case.  I think
it is very tough for you guys and for the fans to really understand
it. I think if they had some sort of race where everyone started
at zero; then just basically played the whole year and who had
the most points wins, because it is so tough to understand defending
points.  They were talking about the devisor-- I really like to
see it change to the point where every time you win, it should
help and if you lose you should be hurt.  That is what  I tell
them.

 Q.   But if it happens as you say with the race starting from
zero at the beginning, how are you going to go through determining
seedings and all that?

 PETE SAMPRAS:  I haven't the slightest idea. I really don't know.
 I mean, there is so many -- you are not going to find a perfect
system.  You are going to have a couple of blemishes here and
there, but it is so much easier for the people to understand.
 People know that the Chicago Bulls are five games behind New
York or whatever.  And the way the tennis ranking is it is so
tough to understand it, so -- I mean, there is so many different
people working on it.  I know the ATP got guys from MIT working
on it and they can't figure it out.  I think there needs to be
a change.  I think every time you walk out on the court it should
count; that is not just the case right now.

 Q.   Pete, do you think there should be a minimum number of
tournaments that each player has to play every year; do you agree
with 14?

 PETE SAMPRAS:  Yeah, that is fine.  I like to play.  I have no
problem committing to the tournaments I play.  Obviously, I am
playing the Majors, so there is no problem in my mind.  I play
in the neighborhood of 19, 20 tournaments.  I have no problem
with the  schedule.  I like to see maybe an off-season.  There
is no real off-season like all the other sports have, but, you
know...

 Q.   You said that you weren't playing really great tennis
the other day.  Today it just looked like everything is together;
playing really well?

 PETE SAMPRAS:  I think under the conditions I thought I played
pretty well.  It was very gusty and the wind was swirling around
the court and you really  -- we both had a hard time getting a
rhythm out there.  I just handled it may be just a little bit
better than Todd and under the conditions, I thought I played
pretty well, served pretty well to win, so I feel pretty good.
My progress, I think, as the week goes on is getting a little
bit better and better. Hopefully I can even play better tomorrow
with Edberg because he is in good form, so it should be a good
one.

 Q.   Would your win over Edberg at the Newsweek last year
have any bearing on tomorrow's match at all?

 PETE SAMPRAS:  I don't think so.  I mean, I think, you know,
we have played each other a dozen times and, you know, we know
what each player is going to do.  It is just a matter of if he
wakes up feeling better and plays better, that is really the bottom
 line.

 Q.   Pete, just on the ranking's point, would you favor a
higher percentage of points going to the Grand Slams than there
is now?  I mean, somebody who wins Frankfurt, in all essence,
gain more points than they would by winning a Grand Slam.

 PETE SAMPRAS:  Well, what I will say is that I feel the Majors
are the most important tournaments of the year and I think that
your ranking should be a reflection on how you do at the Majors.
 But on the other hand, in Frankfurt, I don't know what the point
is, but you don't get bonus points in Frankfurt where, obviously,
in the Majors you get bonus points for beating the guys in the
top 10.  I just feel, you know, they have definitely stepped up
the points, but I feel like your ranking should be an indication
of how you do at the Majors and I think there is some cases that
that really is not the case.

 Q.   Pete, are you really eager to meet Andre in the final
here, would you really -- would that be your first preference?

 PETE SAMPRAS:  Well, it is definitely -- he is two matches away
and I am one match away; I am sure it would be great for the game
and great for our rivalry that has been talked about a lot, but
we will  see what happens over the next day or two.

 Q.   Pete, is you are wildly considered to have the best forehand
in the game.  Can you name a couple of players that have forehands
that you fear?

 PETE SAMPRAS:  Courier and Agassi having the two heaviest forehands.
 Marc Rosset has got a real good forehand.

 Q.   Kafelnikov maybe?

 PETE SAMPRAS:  Pretty good, Kafelnikov, I still I think those
three have the best forehands in the world.

   End of FastScripts!   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT