COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
December 11, 1994
Pete Sampras
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Pete, start of the fourth set you put your  foot on the gas and the tank was dry a little?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  I think the difference was he  felt a lot better this morning than I did.  I felt a  little sore, and I just felt like I was sluggish out  there.  What killed me was the fourth set; he hit four  unbelievable shots in a row, and he broke me, then he  just went from there.  The way he was serving and  playing, it was tough to break and, you know, third set  tiebreak considering he didn't miss a first serve the  whole one, I didn't really have a chance.  Just played  a couple of tight points in the tiebreaker, that was  really the difference.  But I just felt like I wasn't  recovering that well, and the match took quite a bit  out of me yesterday.  And, you know, he obviously  didn't have a long day at the office like I did, but,  you know, I would have loved to have had a day off to  play him.        
 

Q.  Was it simply a question of being tired;  there were no other problems or anything like that?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  No, I felt no aches or pains,  just soreness all around my body.  I really didn't have  time to recover, so. . .  But you got to give him  credit like I said before, he outplayed me.  Sure, I  didn't feel like I was moving that well, but, you know,  it is tough to get the serving back.  He has improved a  lot; he is a very underrated player, and is someone  that is going to be a force next year.   
 

Q.  Pete, you played two five set matches in a  row.  It needs a special preparation maybe, but don't  you think that at the end, very end of the season like  this, that they should play the whole tournament, best  of three sets because it is quite impossible for this  preparation?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  Yeah, I think they -- I have  told them I think for the final you can put it three  out of five because you are going to have an hour final  because the court is so quick.  Semifinals, to have  three out of five, is unfair and in my mind, you know,  you play second match; play a three, four-hour match,  you have to come back the next day, I think it is just   -- it would be better tennis for the final if it was 2  out of 3 in the semifinal.  But that is -- I have told them what I felt and obviously they are going to make  their own decision, but, you know, after Frankfurt I  took a week off, so I wasn't really in great shape  coming here and playing a long match yesterday,  definitely didn't help me out today.   
 

Q.  For most of the players it is the same, any  players who is going to prepare specially to play two  matches in five sets for this tournament --  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  Only other tournament that has  that is the U.S. Open where the Saturday/Sunday  semifinal and final which is -- which is not -- it is  bad scheduling and so I don't think too many players  are preparing to play back-to-back five set matches.  It is something that is just tough on the body, tough  on the mind and it basically took its told on me today.   
 

Q.  He has never beaten you before.  Has he  suddenly become a much better player or is he just on a  real high after the Davis Cup?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  I think a little bit of both.  I think his confidence is huge right now.  And he is a  much better player than he was a couple of years ago.  I first played him in Australia and he was just  starting out.  Now he has got one of the bigger serves  in the game.  He moves quite well.  I just think he is  very underrated because he doesn't look kind of that natural, but end result is that he hits some good shots  and he beats a lot of good players so like I said, he  is going to definitely be a force to deal with next  year.   
 

Q.  Do you think he surprised everyone with the  consistency of his ground strokes, his attacking  groundstrokes; particularly the crosscourt one?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  Yeah, he was -- I don't think  he surprised a lot of people.  I knew what he was  capable of and to beat Todd martin 4, 1 and 1 you got  to be a hell of a player and he proved that again  today.  He does everything-- he has a huge first serve  and second serve and he backs it up with some big  groundies.  The times that I have beaten him in the  past is when his serve isn't there and he served.  I  don't know what his percentage was, but it felt like I  wasn't getting a lot of chances to get into his second  serve points and when I did, he was coming up with good  groundies, so I just got outplayed today.   
 

Q.  How much is Tim's condition being in the  hospital affected you this week?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  None at all.   
 

Q.  How is he?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  Fine.   
 

Q.  He is coming home Wednesday?       
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  Yeah.   
 

Q.  Pete, do you think despite -- it's obviously  been a fantastic year and even though you have been out  for three and a half months, whatever, with an injury,  do you think perhaps your physical durability is maybe  a little bit of an Achilles heal?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  I think that was definitely  evident at the U.S. Open when -- just goes to show that  you need to play and I basically didn't play any tennis  for about four, five weeks, and you can do all the  biking and lifting that you want, but it is not the  same as playing tennis, and it took its toll on me,  but.  I feel like I am pretty fit.  I think over the  next three, four weeks before Australia, I need to do  some more running.  With my ankle injury, I didn't do a  lot of running.  I think kind of building that base  early in the year that I lost over the summer, so I  need that.  Obviously if I want to play well in  Australia.   
 

Q.  Do you think you can get fitter?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  Oh, yeah, yeah.   
 

Q.  You will still just play in that one  tournament in Melbourne before the Open?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  Right.   
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT