COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
December 10, 1994
Pete Sampras
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Pete, when you lost those four matchpoints in  the fifth set, did your mind go back a year ago when  you lost four matchpoints in the fifth set?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  In fact, I have -- that was  the first thing I thought was the nightmare I had when  I played Petr Korda.  I had five matchpoints and really  it was wandering through my mind again today because I  had my chances.  I had my matchpoints, and I just was  thinking, maybe it wasn't meant to be to get to the  final here, and I just got a bit of luck today compared  to last year.  And today's tennis is just basically  hit-and-miss tennis.  He served 40 aces, so very tough  to break, so I am happy I got through and hopefully I  can recover tonight and play just as well tomorrow.  


Q.  When did you start playing that jump smash,  whatever you call it?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  What do you mean?  


Q.  When you jump high and smash it overhead.  

PETE SAMPRAS:  I have always done that,  yeah.  It is up there, and I get some pretty good --  pretty good leaping ability from playing basketball  when I was young.  


Q.  Pete, you shared a lot of emotion at the end  of the match almost didn't get the smile off your face,  was it really a case of relief that you had won the  match; what went through your mind?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  That is exactly what it was,  relief of winning the match and finally getting -- once  you are so close, you can just taste victory, and I  just wasn't playing those matchpoints aggressive enough  and I -- he didn't really play the match point that I  won aggressive.  He hit a pretty soft volley and, you  know, it just -- it happened so quickly; that next  thing you know you won.  Because being up 40-Love  against Goran, you are still not favored to win the  game, so it was a bit of relief, and I am very excited,  and so I feel fortunate that I am through it.  


Q.  How do you feel physically?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Pretty good.  I feel pretty  good.  I feel like I can, you know, have -- my match  tomorrow is at 3:00 o'clock, so I have some time to  sleep in and get a massage tonight and have a good  meal, so I feel pretty good.  It is the last match of  the year for me, so I feel like I can just go out there  and give it everything I have.  


Q.  Did you ever play better volleys?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  I volleyed pretty well.  I  mean, I have volleyed exceptionally well at Wimbledon  when I played him in the final, and my volleying has  gotten better, so -- but it is what I expect from  myself.  


Q.  Do you still work on your volley?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Yeah.  


Q.  How?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Just practice?  


Q.  Pete, you said before the match two days ago  that you had to be very careful on your first serve; to  put your first serve in because his return on your  second serve could be very dangerous, so you thought  about that during the whole match or not?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  I felt what I was most  comfortable with was stepping up to the line and trying  to hit an ace because the court is playing so fast.  But I really didn't serve well today, but the court is  fast enough where I can serve and volley on my second  serve and Goran, you know, returns in streaks.  He  returned two, three good ones and he can "Chang" (sic)  a few, and so that was my main concern, get to the  net.  I don't want to be staying back on my serve  because couple of bad bounces and a couple of unlucky  shots, I could have gotten broken.  And I did in the  first set.  So I need to serve better tomorrow because  I didn't serve very well today.  


Q.  You seemed to be like pretty in control of  the match after the third set, and then what happened  in the fourth?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  I think he finally just -- he  relaxed and I don't think he was tanking, by any  means.  He relaxed and started serving huge, and I had  no plays on his service games.  He must have held at  love, three, four times that set.  If he serves that  high, probably 60 percent, it is impossible to break  him.  Only way I am going to break him if I get some  cracks at his second serve like I did in the last game  of the match because when he played -- when you play  Goran you have to be as patient as possible.  You  realize he is going to hit those two, three aces a  game, and if he can do that the whole match, then that  is too good.  I can accept that, but when you get those  second serve opportunities, you really have to win  those points because if you don't then you are in  trouble.  


Q.  Pete, have you got any good news from Tim?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Yeah, he is doing fine.  


Q.  Pete, how can you say you didn't serve well when you didn't give him a breakpoint for three sets,  practically?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Well, my first serve  percentage, didn't feel like it was that high, so I  think I expected myself to serve better than that.  


Q.  You know you lost only five points on your  serve in the second set and seven points on your serve  in the third?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  I guess that is good.  


Q.  Pete, is it difficult at all during the match  to take your mind off Tim?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  I thought about him some  today, but I was more concerned about trying to return  his serve and so -- that is it.  


Q.  He wasn't returning bad today?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  He returned quite well.  


Q.  Do you think that maybe your volleys made a  difference?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  I thought I volleyed pretty  well.  The thing on this court is that you just have to  make your volleys because it is so tough to pass out  there because of the altitude, it is tough to pass and  -- but he returns well.  Because when he is serving  that big, he can give himself a lot opportunities on  the return; just to go for winners because he knows he  is not going to get broken.  That is what makes Goran  very dangerous, is -- when he is serving that well, it  makes his other -- rest of his game that much better.  


Q.  Looking to the final both opponents have got  huge serves.  Was this match in some way good  preparation for whoever you play in the final with the  serving?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Well, I think tomorrow I will  be able to see the ball a little better.  Goran's got  the biggest serve in the game by far and tomorrow I  will play a righty and those guys play very similar.  They have good all-around court games.  Magnus has  improved a lot this year, and so I don't think it was  any great preparation, you know, I feel that I'd much  rather playing a righty than lefty.  I have had  problems playing lefties, so I feel pretty good and so  we will see what happens.  


Q.  In TENNIS Tiriac said that you came to him  asking him to represent you; is that true?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Not exactly.  I have talked to  Ion and just to talk, really.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT