COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
December 8, 1994
Pete Sampras
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Better than day one?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  Absolutely.  I played much  better.  Only thing I really didn't do that much today  was serve, but I felt much more comfortable on the  court.  I was hitting the ball a lot cleaner, and so it  just -- a completely different player.  I felt on  Tuesday I just wasn't quite there, and today I was  there.  And you really have to be, against Michael,  because like I said before, he doesn't give any free  points away.  You have to work for every point, and I  had to raise my level an extra notch compared to  Tuesday, and so I am pretty pleased with that.   
 

Q.  Will you need to serve a little better  against Goran?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  Absolutely.  I didn't serve at  all today.  I felt my second serve was more effective  than my first, and playing against Goran, I don't want  to be hitting a lot of second serves because he is  serving so big on this court, he would be very tough to  break.  So he will go for a lot of winners on my  returns.  I don't want to be making a lot of second  serves.  That could be the difference.  So I need to  work on that a little bit tomorrow; get the serve in a  little bit more.  Maybe take a little bit off of it  just to get it in, and because it is very tough to  return and pass on this court, so I hope to do that on  Saturday.   
 

Q.  Did you see the first match today?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  Fortunately, I didn't.   
 

Q.  What do you mean "fortunately"?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  I heard Goran played  unbelievable, and so, I didn't see it.   
 

Q.  You would be scared if you saw it?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  Well, whenever I play Goran, I  always got my steel cup on because he serves so big.  So I need protection.   
 

Q.  So what is your view of Saturday's match?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  Very straightforward match.  Obviously, I know what is coming.  He knows what is  coming.  The court is playing so quick, it could come  down to a couple of points here and there.  The main  thing for me is to return his serve and make him play  as much as possible and -- but the way he has been  serving on this court, it is very tough to return, but  he is obviously very confident, playing a good match  today and so it should be a good match.  We both play  the same games, so there won't be a lot of long points,  but I am looking forward to it and I am sure he is too.   
 

Q.  He has been asked, you know, earlier who he  would like to play Saturday.  He said Pete Sampras  because I have a lot to, you know, to give him back for  the season.  He is obviously very hot about playing you  Saturday.  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  I will be ready.  I am feeling  pretty good and healthy.  I have beaten him the last  couple of times, so I am sure he is going to want to  get back at me, so, you know, we will have to play out  on the court and see who wins.   
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT