COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
December 6, 1994
Pete Sampras
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Pete what have you been doing these past two  weeks?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  I just went to Florida on  Monday after Frankfurt, and left Wednesday for L.A.,  spent Thanksgiving in Los Angeles with my family; came  back to Florida on Monday and started practicing on  Wednesday.  So I have only been really been here the  past four, five days.  Other than that, I was in L.A. I  didn't pick up a racket; just slept a lot, ate a lot;  watched all the ball games; watched the Cowboys beat  the Packers, which was great, so that is what I did,  really.   
 

Q.  When you have had a little break like that,  is it always slightly nervous coming into the first  match?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  Well, I mean, I am not going  to forget how to play.  Obviously, I played quite well  at Frankfurt, so I definitely didn't want to come over  here; fly across, you know, half the world and go  through the motions.  I wanted to prepare well; got  here on Sunday.  I thought I played pretty well today.  I didn't play great by any means, so I wasn't really  worried about the fact that I haven't practiced too  much.  I figured once I get out there and it all kind  of would come back to me, and I think it did for the  most part.   
 

Q.  Did the sight of him on the other side of the  net bring back any unpleasant painful memories?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  Any nightmares?  I thought  about it, sure.  When I saw the draw I was thinking  obviously this is a good opportunity to get back at him  because the Open was -- I saw him for four hours.  That  was a bit too long for me, so -- and the court is  playing so fast that it really helps my game out.  And  so I definitely will get back at him.   
 

Q.  It is very fast, Pete?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  I don't think it is very  fast.  I think it is very, very, very fast.   
 

Q.  Faster than Frankfurt?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  Absolutely.  I mean, there is  an altitude here about 900 meters, which is, I don't  know, 1700 feet.  And the court is the same court they  have had since I have been playing here, and every year  I just tell them it would be better tennis to watch and  to play if they slow it down and each year it just  seems like it is the same fast court which I really  like in a lot of ways and I don't like because it is  tough to return.  It is tough to hit groundstrokes.  Obviously, it is good for my serve and volley game, but  I like the court a bit slower.   
 

Q.  In terms of speed, how does it compare to  Wimbledon Center Court?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  Well, it is different, but it  is in the same type of, I guess, atmosphere.  I mean,  it is kind of the same realm of speed as far as either   -- basically the strokes are the same out there,  pretty short swings.  You need to get to the net as  soon as possible, so I mean, I would compare it to  grass court.   
 

Q.  Pete, all the eight guys from Frankfurt are  here; all this year's Grand Slam winners are here.  Do  you think the political argument against the ATP Finals  is now behind us?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  I think so.  I think the first  year obviously was much more political; a lot of the  top guys didn't play, but now I think everyone is more  or less committed to play.  So I think the politics of  the whole Grand Slam Cup, ATP Finals, I think, is kind  of behind us.   
 

Q.  Could you, Pete, think of a way of improving  it actually, of making it more appealing to the players  to give it that sort of -- take away that feeling that  it is still maybe a bit of an exhibition, can you think  of a way of doing that?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  Well, I am not treating this  like an exhibition.  I am treating this as -- I am not  going to be satisfied with nothing, but a win.  It is  not the same as a Wimbledon, but I want to play well.  I want to win, because obviously.  We all know there is  a lot of prize money to be won; a little extra  Christmas shopping, so it is always nice.   
 

Q.  Any one thing that can be done do to maybe  make it just in line with the other major events?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  I don't know.  I think it is  pretty much pretty well received by the fans.  Each  year a lot more people are coming, I don't know -- all  the top guys are playing, so I think I think those are  the two main components of a good event.   
 

Q.  How do you feel physically, do you feel good?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  I feel fine, yeah.   
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT