ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 20, 1994
Pete Sampras
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Pete, to end the year like this, does this  overcome a lot of the frustration?  You had to suffer  the injuries and everything else the second half of the  year.  
 
PETE SAMPRAS: Absolutely.  This is -- I  finally got a break, really.  If Boris doesn't win his  match on Friday, I am at home, and he won his match;  came back.  And that was the break I needed because I  haven't gotten so many bad breaks over the summer and  at the Open that, I guess, I was due.  And I played one  of my best matches yesterday and really was up against  a tough opponent and a tough crowd, and I came  through.  So this really ends my year on a great, great  note.  Kind of gives me a bit of satisfaction.  It's a  win here because the fall hasn't been great and so I am  going to go home; enjoy this; spend Thanksgiving with  my folks and come back for the Grand Slam Cup.   
 

Q.  Pete, what's the big difference between  Wednesday and today, of course you won and Boris  didn't, could you expand a little bit more on what was  the difference between the two matches?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS: The difference today was I  returned a lot better and when I return a lot better  and put a bit more pressure on his serve, and as a  result, he hit a number of doublefaults.  Not on the  account-- it seemed like he was hitting a lot of them.  And I knew if I didn't return well that he was going to  be hitting huge second serves. He has got the biggest  second serve I have ever tried to return.  One thing I talked to Tim yesterday about was  staying a little further back; give me more time to  make him volley.  He volleys good, but he is not like  an Edberg volleyer, so that was really a huge, huge  point in the match.  And I just hung in there after  losing the first, and the crowd was very loud.  I just  tried to block that out.  I tried to use that as a bit  of motivation, and got off to a bad break and that kind  of put the crowd out of it.  That was it.  I played really well today.  This is one of  my better matches of the fall.   
 

Q.  Are you saying that his doublefaults were  maybe as a result of the fact that you were returning  well?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS: That is what I said, yeah.  Yeah, I mean, because I didn't really put any  pressure on his service games.  He was continuing to  hit huge second serves and today, I just stood back a  little bit more, tried to make him volley a little bit,  keep it low, then he kind of felt the pressure a little  bit and then doublefaulted quite a number of times.  That was a huge point of the match.   
 

Q.  Pete, you started the last game by  doublefaulting, everybody screaming, what kind of  pressure did you feel at that point?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS: Well, I just tried to take some  deep breaths, relax, not try to worry about the  situation, and try to get my first serve in.  If I  don't get my first serve in against Boris, he just  cracks the second serve.  He could easily be up Love-30  against me.  It could have really changed the match.  I  hit some big serves that was kind of the key in the  last game.  Boris, he is so difficult to play because  he just takes a huge cut on the second serve and comes  in and you are always under pressure, and that is  possibly why he doublefaulted that first point, and --  but I needed that first service; was key to the match.   
 

Q.  Were you feeling the heat from the crowd?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS: I could definitely hear it.  Oh  yeah, just try to shut that out and not worry about it  and understand that they are going to be loud and  accept that and not try to worry about it.   
 

Q.  What did you tell him when you shook hands?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS: I thanked him for letting me  play.  Over the week that was just a bit of luck and  that is something that I haven't been getting the past  four, five months and I got a break this week.   
 

Q.  Pete, you won the tournament today, but then  also will you have been No. 1 for the whole calendar  year, first guy since Lendl did it in 1987.  How do you  feel about that?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS: It is great.  Great  accomplishment.  Just proves that I have been really  consistent even though I pulled out of six events; I  still maintained that No. 1 ranking by a pretty good  margin and I hope to continue that.  I got Andre kind  of right behind me dying to be No. 1, so just need to  keep on working hard and I think that things are going  to happen.   
 

Q.  Pete, are you going to play Davis Cup next  year?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS: I haven't made any definite  decisions as far as Davis Cup.  I will wait 'til the  year is over after the Grand Slam Cup; then think about  it.  Then make my decision before Australia if I am  going to play the first round.   
 

Q.  Are you going to change your schedule this  year?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS: Next year, well, only thing I  am changing next year is I am playing a little bit more  on clay.  Previous years I have gone over to Asia and  played on the hard court where this year I am playing  events in Barcelona and Monte Carlo to try to get my  game better for the French, a tournament that I would  love to win and so that is really the only difference.   
 

Q.  Pete, you had lost five time out of six on  carpet against Becker.  What was really different, just  your return or you think you probably -- he was also a  little tired today?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS: I don't think he was tired.  I  thought with the crowd behind him I thought he looked  pretty fit to me.  The difference was my return.  I  returned a lot better; made him hit a lot of volleys.  Because if I didn't return well, then I am always under  pressure with my service games.  And, you know, Boris  is probably one of the best indoor players that is on  the Tour right now.  And if you can get his serve back;  especially his second serve which is just as big as his  first, then that is obviously much -- that is much  better.   
 

Q.  What is next, Pete, are you going to  Disneyworld?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS: No.  I am going to -- close,  Tampa is pretty close.  I am going to go home for a  little bit; then I will see my folks for Thanksgiving;  then take a little time off and get ready for Munich.   
 

Q.  Are there still parts of your game that you  work on or just keep going?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS: Well, there is not really a lot  of off time to really change things in your game and  really work on things.  There are minor things that Tim  sees that I can't see in my game, but there is nothing  really specific that we are working on right now.   
 

Q.  What do you think about Boris comeback, in  general?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS: I think he is obviously very  motivated.  I think since Nick he has -- is enjoying  the game a lot more.  He is settled with his wife and  his kid; seemed like he is really happy out there.  As  far as his game is concerned, he is moving a lot better  than what he was a year ago.  He is more confident and,  you know, I have played him indoor and he is really  good indoors.  You know, he is working harder, I am  sure, and he is playing better.   
 

Q.  After losing the first set did you think here  we go again like last year, against a German?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS: Fortunately, it is three out of  five, and that I just told myself if he is going to  beat me, he is going to have to play that type of  tennis in the first set because he was hitting -- he  must have aced me probably six times in the first set,  and I just told myself to not get down on myself, and  he's got two more sets to win and I just need to start  returning and once I did that, then that kind of change  the course of the match.  And then his serve really  kind of dropped there for the second and third a little  bit, and I took advantage of that.   
 

Q.  What have been the most and the least  satisfying moments of the year?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS: Being injured right after  Wimbledon was very frustrating and the Open experience  was kind of the icing on the cake because of not being  in shape and losing the match because I wasn't in shape  was very discouraging, and that was -- I wasn't  satisfied at all.   
 

Q.  Most satisfying?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS: I have to say my two Majors and  then here.  This definitely ends my year on a great  note.  So I am going to go home and enjoy it.   
 

Q.  Do you think you played better today or  yesterday?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS: Well, it was a completely  different match. You know, Andre stays back and Boris  comes in.  Two players that what they do they do it  very well.  I think, you know, yesterday I played at a  level that I really had to play to beat Andre and today  I think was the same because Boris hasn't lost a match  all week and I had to raise my level compared to when I  played him on Wednesday, so I think it was tough to say  because it was a completely different match.   
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT