ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 19, 1994
Pete Sampras
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  How much were you picking up of Andre's  dialogue with Rudi?  

PETE SAMPRAS: I just heard just about  everything.  He just lost his cool a little bit and  obviously wasn't happy with a couple of the overrules,  and also losing the second set, he was unhappy with  that.  


Q.  Were you conscious that it was drifting  towards you, that the momentum shifted towards you at  that point?  

PETE SAMPRAS: After the second I knew that if  I could stay on top of him, because I could tell that  he was steaming inside and I broke him right off the  bat, and that really kind of made the difference.  He  never was really the same in the third set compared to  the first couple of sets.  He wasn't moving as well,  and you could just sense that he was a bit deflated.  I  just took advantage of that.  


Q.  Did you feel the beginning of the second set  he was a bit slower than the third?  

PETE SAMPRAS: No, I thought the first he was  just too -- good serving, very high percentage, I got  off at a really shaky start, lost my serve.  I just  told myself, if he is going to beat me, he is going to  have to play just as well in the second, and it came  down to a couple of shots in the tiebreaker.  I hit  that one really good backhand down the line that I  didn't think I was going to get.  I just stuck my  racket out and it was a huge point.  And then I could  really see the difference compared to the first two  sets in the third set, I could see that he wasn't  moving as well and wasn't quite as sharp.  


Q.  I watched you play a lot of matches, never  saw you jump that high, ever.  Have you ever done that?  

PETE SAMPRAS: Not too often.  That was the  right time to do it, though.  


Q.  Was that a big point?  

PETE SAMPRAS: Well, it was 5-3 to go 6-3 and  one more point; that ties everything up, so I lose that  point it is 4-All, so that -- I am sorry, 5-4, so that  is a huge point.  Biggest point of the match, possibly.  


Q.  Pete, don't you think also the 4-1 game when  you broke, you hit three terrific winners all with long  rallies, don't you think that was a very crucial part  of the match when you broke 3-1; you won the last three  points on winners, they were all after long rallies.  

PETE SAMPRAS: In the second?  


Q.  In the second.  

PETE SAMPRAS: When I was 3-1 up?  


Q.  When you went 3-1 up with those three  winners.  Took him 3-1.  

PETE SAMPRAS: I broke for 3-1?  


Q.  Yeah.  

PETE SAMPRAS: That just kind of -- I raised  my level, and that was a huge game.  That kind of told  him that I wasn't going to quit; that I was going to  hang in there and make him earn it.  Unfortunately, I  didn't play a good game; didn't get any first serves.  At 3-1 he broke me right back.  And those winners were  -- I had to hit those winners; that is how well he was  playing.  I had to raise my level kind of to a new  level in order to, you know, really win the match.  


Q.  Was it difficult to adapt to a baseliner  after playing serve and volleyers?  

PETE SAMPRAS: Yeah, little bit.  I knew Andre  was going to come in here really grooved.  He played  Chang, Bruguera and Berasategui; I knew he was going to  be grooved.  Maybe it took me a little while -- maybe  that is why maybe I got off to a slow start.  But I was  pretty much prepared whoever I was going to play.  


Q.  Assuming it's Becker tomorrow, any thoughts?  

PETE SAMPRAS: Well, first of all, I will have  to thank him if he didn't win his match yesterday, I am  flying home today.  And if I am going to come through and beat  him, I need to return better.  I didn't return at all  when I played him on Wednesday.  I need to make him  play a lot more and make him volley and hopefully try  to get off to a good start and get the crowd out of  it.  That is tough to say.  I am going to have to play  better than I did on Wednesday.  


Q.  If it is Sergi?  

PETE SAMPRAS: If it's Sergi, it will be a  very similar match to my match today.  Doesn't have  quite the power from the backcourt, and I got to use  the court to my advantage and if I serve like I did in  the last couple of sets and hit my groundies and make  him play a lot of shots, then, you know, I like my  chances.  


Q.  You have been going up and down in your  returns.  You returned very well against Stefan.  What  is going on really?  It's not that quite solid all the  time yet?  

PETE SAMPRAS: My return?  


Q.  Yeah, today was tough for you.  

PETE SAMPRAS: Yeah, because I knew I had -- I  had the pressure of Andre.  If I didn't hit a good  return, he was going to be all over me, so when I play  Stefan I know he is coming in and Stefan's serve can be  a bit predictable, so you can kind of get ready;  whereas, Andre, I think, is serving a lot better;  mixing it around to my body; out wide to my forehand.  I never really got a good rhythm on my return, so I  was, obviously, good enough to come through.  I need to return better if I am -- if I play  Boris to beat him.  


Q.  Boris said yesterday you came to the  lockerroom before the match against Edberg and wished  him good luck; is that right?  

PETE SAMPRAS: No joke.  He told the truth.  


Q.  How long?  

PETE SAMPRAS: No, I just knocked on his door  and wished him good luck.  Only way I could not have  qualified and be playing today was that if Edberg won  in three sets.  That means Edberg and Boris are in.  And when Boris was down a break in the third, I was  thinking of my flight home and he came back and showed  a lot of heart, and, you know, it was good that I got a  break, I finally got a break.  Fortunately I got the  break that I needed.  


Q.  Where did you watch the match?  

PETE SAMPRAS: In my lockerroom.  


Q.  You watched the whole thing?  

PETE SAMPRAS: Oh, yeah, I was definitely into  it.  I was just with Tim, obviously, making a lot of  noise when he won.  


Q.  Talk about motivation, what did he have to  tell you when you were down a set to go deep down in  yourself to find the energy to fight back?  

PETE SAMPRAS: I guess it is playing Andre;  really wanting to win kind of -- our rivalry is  something that I hope turns into something pretty  special one day and I did not want to lose to him twice  in a matter of three weeks so I didn't want to quit.  I  wanted to make him earn it.  That is what I did.  And I  just got the breaks, really.  I really could have lost  that match in straight sets.  I just showed a bit of  heart out there and didn't quit.  


Q.  He seemed like he was putting you under  pressure, so much depth on his groundstrokes; anyone  else can do that?  

PETE SAMPRAS: No one else.  I know in the  back of my mind, if I am not serving well, I have to stay back because he has the best return of serve by  far in the game.  He was just cracking returns and it  he is hitting his backhands so heavy, I felt like he  was coming in and I was backing up, and I need to serve  well if I am going to beat Andre.  If I don't serve;  then it is a long day for me.  


Q.  You also seemed to have some difficulties to  attack his second serve.  You didn't come --  

PETE SAMPRAS: I felt like I can out-rally  Andre.  I am not going to beat him staying at the  backcourt, but he hits a second serve with a lot of  pace.  He has got a big kick serve and tough serve to  come in on.  I think he knew that I might do that today  - to come in on his second serve; that is why he was  hitting a bit harder than he normally does.  


Q.  You might see him in the Australian Open  final; do you think?  

PETE SAMPRAS: I haven't really thought about  that.  It is a possibility, sure.  I mean, he is  definitely is one of the guys that I say I have the  most fear right now because, you know, as confident as  he is and as well as he is moving, he is really tough  to beat because I think he hits the ball heavier than  anyone I have ever played.  


Q.  Andre said that he can become No. 1 because  he has improved his mental attitude.  The fact that he  cracked up there when he was under real pressure, do  you have think that is his most difficult problem at  the moment to make a serious challenge to your play?  

PETE SAMPRAS: No, I don't think so.  I just  think that the circumstances were, you know, pretty  much went in my favor today.  I got the breaks.  I got  the calls.  That is just the way the cookie crumbles  sometimes.  But Andre has been always -- at least, at  times I have seen him play very focused; doesn't seem  like he loses his cool.  Today he lost his cool a  little bit.  I tried to keep things in perspective and  if I get some bad line calls, I try to shut them out  and he just kind of let them linger in the back of his  head that might have cost him the match.  


Q.  Which ones?  

PETE SAMPRAS: I don't know which one because  he overruled a couple of them.  


Q.  15-All ball, 5-6?  

PETE SAMPRAS: It is hard to say.  I don't  know.  Obviously umpire saw a clear mistake and he  overruled it.  That is really not in my control.  I  just play the calls.  


Q.  Pete, when do you return to Europe next year;  is Barcelona the first tournament?  

PETE SAMPRAS: Yeah.  


Q.  Where does this match rank in Sampras/Agassi  history?  

PETE SAMPRAS: I thought that the level of  tennis was as high as I have ever played and I think he  might say the same.  I thought we both played really  well.  And a good chance that we will play like that  again in the future which I think the game really needs  right now, a good rivalry.  I think Andre and I, with  our personalities being so different and our games  being so different, is something that I am looking  forward to.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT