ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 18, 1994
Pete Sampras
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  New day, new man, kind of all there all day  seemed like.  
 
PETE SAMPRAS: Yeah, compared to my first  match here against Boris, today I was a completely  different player.  My body language was a lot better.  I served a lot better.  It was just a much better  performance.  Maybe just took me a match to get used to  the courts; unfortunately that might cost me to be  flying home tomorrow, but I hope Boris wins.   
 

Q.  It was suggested that you had a bit of  stomach trouble this week, have you?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS: A little bit.   
 

Q.  Is that under control?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS: Yeah, it is under control.   
 

Q.  It is not a recurrence of what you had last  week in Antwerp?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS: No, no.   
 

Q.  By the time we finalize stories, we will know  who you're playing tomorrow.  Can you say a little bit about Bruguera, if  you play him?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS: If I play Sergi, it is a pretty  similar match to playing Andre.  He doesn't have quite  the power, but I need to get the ball to his backhand.  I can't let him control the points with his heavy  forehand.  He has got a pretty underrated first serve.  He serves pretty well.  I need to come in.  I have to  use the court to my advantage; keep the ball low and  try to control the center of the court.  If he is  controlling the center of the court and smacking  forehands, I could be doing a lot of running.  It's a  very similar match to playing Andre, but Andre has got  a bit more power on the shot.   
 

Q.  If you were Ivanisevic's coach and you could  improve one aspect of his game, what would it be?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS: I think Goran has all the  shots.  He has got all the capabilities of a good  athlete; moves well; serves well.  I think mentally he  can be a little bit better; not get so upset at himself  and try to look at the positives instead of the  negatives and that would be a start.  As far as his  game, I think he does everything quite well.  Just  mentally he just has to maybe be a bit more mature.   
 

Q.  What were you able to read from Goran's body  language today?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS: I could tell from the first  couple of games he wasn't serving like he normally does  on the radar gun.  He was serving 170 and it is usually  200.  Once I got that first break, I could see he was  steaming inside.  I knew I kind of -- if I kept on top  of him and not let up that I could break him down.  And  that is what happened.  And I struggled a little bit to  close it out, but I could just see that he was  frustrated with the whole week.  He was very drained  after losing to Boris and to come back and play the  next day and that is -- he just look a bit depleted and  -- but I thought I maybe had a little bit to do with  that because I had thought I played one of my better  matches this fall.   
 

Q.  Did you feel some of the sharpness today that  you had in the first half of the year?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS: Yeah, this match was pretty  similar to the Wimbledon final.  My return of serve was  about as well as I could and served quite well.  And  through the first four, five months, I was on such a  great rhythm and confidence was riding high really  nothing stopping me except an injury, which  unfortunately happened.  And -- but I am getting that  confidence back and -- but regardless if I don't  qualify, I can look back at this year and be really  happy with two majors and a lot of nice titles and  scary thing is that it was a great year, but it could  have been a lot better.   
 

Q.  Are you tired of talking about your health  stomach problems?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS: I am tired -- I might go to  medical school after my career is over.   
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT