ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 17, 1994
Pete Sampras
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  You were surprised about the first set?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  The fact that he won the first  set?  


Q.  Yes.  He played very good tennis.  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Yeah, I was up a break; got  off to a great start and before I knew it, it was -- he  won four straight games up 5-3, and combination of I  kind of let him back into the set and he started  returning better; hitting his forehand a lot better.  When Stefan can hit his forehand return well, he is  tough to ace and tough to beat.  So, I just told myself  to hang in there and not panic.  And sure, I was a bit  frustrated after being up a break, but whenever I play  Stefan, it always comes down to a couple of points, and  I got those points today.  It came down to a  tiebreaker.  And once the tiebreaker comes into play,  it is kind of hit-and-miss tennis out there, and I made  him hit a couple of volleys and that is all that really  was the -- that was about the match right there.  


Q.  But it was quite a finish on your part, 5-6  down, serving to stay in the match and suddenly it all  seemed to -- all the serve was perfect; getting all the  powers there?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Right.  It is always tough  when I am always down a game.  When I am playing  against Stefan, he is coming in on every second serve  and I felt like I was always under pressure, and so I  was happy I was holding pretty easily.  I was up  30-Love.  Then, like you said, from 6-5 on, I served  really well in the tiebreaker and just raised my level  just a little bit.  Obviously enough to win.  So it was  good.  


Q.  Was there a point when you thought this isn't  going to be my tournament?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  After I lost the first, I was  thinking just a frustrated week.  I was struggling and  playing guys that were just playing too good and I just  told myself to just to have a bit more fun out there  because I was really getting down on myself.  I am sure  you guys can see that, and I was feeling that way, I  just told myself to hang in there and hopefully get a  break; that is what happened, and I kind of got my  spirits up.  I was kind of walking like I really wanted  to be there, so as a result, I start playing better.  


Q.  You don't usually do that when you are down;  you don't usually show externally what you are feeling  like that.  How come do you think it happened here?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  I don't know.  I just feel  that it is frustrating because my game really isn't  there and it really was for the last set and a half, as  I was playing like I normally do because by beating --  getting beat my Stefan -- I mean, by Boris yesterday, I  was a bit overwhelmed; didn't play well, so the  confidence going into today's match wasn't really there  and I had to find it somehow.  And fortunately, I found  it in the middle of the second set and that kind of  made a turning point for me.  


Q.  Was it all the more difficult to find a  couple of extraordinary points which he won, very  dramatic points and fantastic points, did that sort of  help you think perhaps this isn't going to be my day?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Got two sets to win, and sure,  he basically outplayed me in the first set and I just  told myself not to panic and that he played too good;  if he is going to play that well in the second, I am  not going to make it here to the weekend.  So, I just  told myself to have a bit more fun and try to stay  positive because everything in the first set -- I was  just getting a bit upset with myself and I normally  don't do that.  I just started playing better.  


Q.  Is the decision in the match to have more fun  something new for you or is that sort of a mental  approach you had before?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  No, I just -- I just was upset  with the way I played yesterday and being beaten by  Boris twice - I am not too happy with that; and going  into today's match, I was feeling pretty good, but I am  not a good player after losing.  I am not used to  that.  After losing you are playing; this is the only  event that you have that, so Tim and I talked about it;  we just tried to put the loss behind me yesterday and  the way I am playing behind me and trying to think of  this kind of like a new tournament so that is -- it  took me a set and a half to realize that.  


Q.  Because of what you have been through in the  last few months, does this thing mean more to you than  it normally would; to finish the year --  

PETE SAMPRAS:  That is important to me.  The  year was going just about perfect for the first four,  five months and for that to be halted enough to  defending my Wimbledon title and having a nagging  injury, that was very frustrating and I just told  myself on this European trip to put the whole summer  and U.S. Open behind me; really try to finish the year  strong; that is why this win kind of keeps me in the  running.  I can still win my match tomorrow; not make  the semi, which is too bad.  So it is important to  finish strong, but regardless if I don't make the semi,  I can look back at this year and be very happy with two  major titles and a lot of nice titles under my belt, so  it is a good year, but the scary thing is that it  really could have been a lot better.  


Q.  How do you reckon your chances against Goran?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  I feel pretty good.  I beat  Goran here last year in a tough three-setter.  Obviously, I have to get his serve back and stay solid  on my service games and so I feel pretty good.  I am  sure he is a bit -- I saw him play yesterday.  I am  sure he was a bit dejected losing to Boris and having  to come back the next day and play Stefan; I am sure  with his day off he will play better tomorrow.  


Q.  You like round robin?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Well, after losing the first  day, yeah, I do like round Robin.  

I think it is good.  I think the event is  good.  I think to see all the different combinations, I  am -- I mean, sure, I would have loved to be in an  easier group, but that is kind of the way the draw  works.  But I like it.  I think playing Goran tomorrow;  the final at Wimbledon, and you have -- which is a big  match.  I like it.  


Q.  What is your opinion about the fact that  Stich could have played instead of Berasategui being in  the race for the semifinal?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  I haven't thought about their  group.  But it is not -- really not in my control; nor  my decision on the other guys, and Berasategui, he  qualified; that is really the bottom line.  I mean, I  am sure it would have been great for the event if  Michael somehow made it; if he played a little bit  better the last couple of tournaments, but...  


Q.  But that Stich could have played instead of  Berasategui because Berasategui was injured after the  first day; could have been put in for the second match?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  I think Berasategui knew, you  know, he seemed -- I saw him play Chang.  He was just  outplayed.  Seemed like he was hitting the ball fine;  didn't seem like his thumb was really bothering him, so  I think he made the right decision.  


Q.  What did you vote when you were pooled about  that, the rule change, do you remember that?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  I don't even know.  There are  so many things I am voting for, Republican or Democrat,  so...  I am trying to remember what I voted.  


Q.  They pooled you guys back in Tokyo, Michael  said.  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Yeah, I think -- I don't  know.  I am trying to think -- I think if someone is  hurt and Michael were to come back and play and won his  two matches, I think he probably should be eligible to  play.  So I think I did vote for the fact that an  alternate can make the semi.  


Q.  Looks like you and Stefan always aim to  produce this kind of matches.  Is there something  special when you -- it is always such dramatic  matches.  

PETE SAMPRAS:  It is always nice to play  Stefan because we are just going to play tennis out  there because he is a class act.  We are just going to  play and the better man wins.  There is no antics or  gamesmanship out there.  And it always comes down to a  couple of points.  We are going to hold serve the  majority of the time.  And just -- it wasn't surprising  to me that the match came down to a tiebreaker in the  third set, and it really could have gone either way,  and fortunately, for me, it went my way.  


Q.  Pete, Edberg's backhand and volley were  terrific as usual.  What kind of holes do you see in his game  that you can finally attack and when it really comes  down to crunch time.  

PETE SAMPRAS:  I think his forehand is  absolutely the weaker side.  If I am going to lose to  Stefan, he is going to hit some forehand passers and  forehand returns; that is the weaker side.  When it  comes down to a 30-All point or big points, I am going  to go out wide to his forehand, so that is really the  game plan.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT