ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 16, 1994
Pete Sampras
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Pete, you seemed a little out of sync?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  Yeah.   
 

Q.  Is that the way you felt?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  Yeah, I felt like my timing  today was -- it wasn't that good.  Just took me a  little while to get used to the surroundings and the  conditions, and obviously Boris played yesterday, so I  think that might have worked to his advantage.  But he  played too well.  I mean, he was hitting his second  serves as hard as his firsts and I really couldn't get  a play on his serve and all it took was two breaks and  that was it.  I really didn't have any chances.  I had  two breaks points and I didn't get a racket on his  serve.  He hit two aces.  So, too good.   
 

Q.  More him than you?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  I think a little bit of both.  I think that is the best he has ever played against me,  and obviously the fans helped him out.  And my timing  of my whole game just wasn't there.   
 

Q.  Have you ever seen somebody hitting so many  risky second serves?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  Well, the times that Boris and  I have played, he always seems to go for his second  serve, but he always seems to throw in a lot of  doublefaults and today he only doublefaulted twice and,  you know, that is the way he plays.  He just goes for  it in every aspect of the game; from the backcourt,  kind of puts a bit of pressure on me that he is just  going to tee off on everything, and that is just --  that is what makes him very dangerous.   
 

Q.  How big is the difference between playing him  indoors and outdoors?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  A very big difference.  I  think he is a much better player indoor; the ball  bounces much lower.  I prefer to play him on a slower  court; clay court at Rome was pretty good this year.  But he is a lot better player indoor than out.   
 

Q.  Was the crowd a factor today?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  No, not really.  I mean, they  were certainly loud and definitely caused play to slow  down; especially the big moments of the match, but that  wasn't really a huge factor.  I mean, I am sure it  helped him out and he raised his level.  The crowd can  certainly do that.   
 

Q.  Pete, do you think that this group is  stronger than the other groups' four serve and volley  players?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  I think so.  I think  concerning we are playing indoor green set which is a  pretty medium surface, but still plays pretty fast and  tomorrow I will play either Goran or Stefan who is not  an easy match for anyone.  And the other half  definitely has the baseliners and clay court players,  but that is kind of the way the draw turned out, and  there is nothing really anyone can do.   
 

Q.  Pete, you feel fresh as ever at this time  because of the breaks you had this year?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  Yeah, I feel pretty good.  I  feel healthy and got some good energy out there.  Just  wasn't there today.   
 

Q.  You remained very quiet although there were a  lot of narrow decisions against you.  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  I think the calls were fine.   
 

Q.  How do you see your chances after this match?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  Well, I am not out of it.  But  this is definitely not a good start for me. Obviously I  have to win my next two matches.  If I don't, then I  will be home on the weekend and if I can win my two  matches; then maybe I will still be here.   
 

Q.  It is part of you goal to go back home?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  No, I feel like I want to.   
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT