ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 14, 1994
Pete Sampras
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  You won in Antwerp.  How does it feel now?  Do you feel physically okay?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Yeah, I really haven't felt  any extra pains since I have been in Europe and it gave  me some confidence going into this week.  I feel more  comfortable on the court.  The court here is playing a  lot slower than compared to Antwerp.  It was a bit too  fast, so I feel fit and ready to go.  


Q.  Andre was talking last week about rivalry in  tennis.  How do you feel about that?  Do you think that  it is necessary?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Absolutely.  That is one thing  that I think tennis has been missing for the past  couple of years and I think rivalries is what really  sells sports - if it is the Lakers and Celtics or the  Yankees and Dodgers; that is what people really take a  keen interest in.  Andre and I are so different with  our personalities and our life; sometimes and I think  it results as a very good matchup and we play  differently; we act differently and so I am looking  forward to it.  I mean, he definitely brings out the  best in me.  I think vice versa; so hopefully it is  something that will last awhile.  


Q.  Are you happy with your year so far?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  It has been a very good year,  but the scary thing is that it really could have been a  lot better.  I mean, the first six months was just  about perfect.  Then the nagging injuries really took  its toll.  It was a great year, but it could have been  a lot better like I said, with two major titles in nine  tournaments, I can't ask for a better year, but I could  have had some more titles and an Open victory, but I  will have to wait 'til next year.  


Q.  Pete, I read an agency the other week -- the  agency was saying that you would like to take holidays,  but you can't?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Well --  


Q.  Is that correct or they were saying. . .  

PETE SAMPRAS:  I think the question they  asked me was as far as the Tour and the off-season, as  far as -- there is really really no off-season on the  Tour since I am playing here and in a couple of weeks I  come back from Munich, so I only have about three or  four weeks to get ready for Australia.  That is not  really a lot of time.  


Q.  What about to decide when the season is off?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Well, I think like other  sports in the states, there is like three or four  months off where you can rest and work on your game,  whereas the way it is set up now, is that even if I  don't play Munich, I only have about five, six weeks.  


Q.  What happened to the beard?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  I don't know.  I just -- it  was starting to irritate me.  I started sweating a  little bit and it was pinching me and I decided to look  a bit more respectable.  


Q.  No more that meaner look?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  No.  Well -- I guess I will  try to be Mr. Nice guy this week.  


Q.  How is it being back in Frankfurt?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  It feels pretty good.  I have  always enjoyed Frankfurt and I seem to play pretty well  here.  I think playing other top guys is going to  result in a lot of really good tennis, so I am looking  forward to that, and so I am happy I am here.  I am  healthy which is great, so I am looking forward to a  good week.  


Q.  How could you value this tournament compared  to others to the Grand Slam tournaments?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  I don't think you can put this  event in a Grand Slam category.  I think it is a huge  event.  It is a lot of points and prize money, but if  you asked me a question if I'd rather win the Open or  Frankfurt, I think I will take the Open because it is  so much more prestigious; been around a lot longer, but  I definitely want to end the year as far as I can and I  couldn't think of a better way than to win here.  


Q.  You have the first day off.  Did you expect   -- did you wish to have it off?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  No, it was just the way the  draw was made.  


Q.  Your first opponent is Stefan Edberg?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Yes.  


Q.  Can you say something?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Well, I played him a number of  times.  I have played him here a couple of times.  We  both play very similar and, you know, Stefan's year  hasn't been, you know, what it usually is.  He is still  very dangerous; given me a lot of trouble.  I always  have trouble against guys that are coming in and coming  in.  That is what Stefan does really well, so I think  the -- it is really going to come down to my returns.  If I return well, I like my chances.  


Q.  Totally different groups.  It is just the way  of the event; do you think the same?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  It is the way the draw came  out, like in any -- like the French Open was very  strong on top and very weak on the bottom, but here I  think it would be nice to have some contracts of styles  like myself playing Chang or Agassi, but it is just the  way the draw goes and there is nothing really that we  can all do about it.  We will sit and watch.  


Q.  It is the fifth time here in Frankfurt.  There were four different winners before.  Do you think  this time one of the four--  

PETE SAMPRAS:  I think myself-- hopefully  myself.  Becker is one of the favorites.  Andre, the  way he has been playing the last couple of months is  going to be tough to beat and Michael who also won--  was hoping for an injury, but we will see what  happens.  


Q.  Are you physically 100%?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Yeah.  


Q.  All over?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Yeah.  


Q.  What about Tim?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Tim, he is doing better too.  All he has is a little scar and he is doing fine.  


Q.  Have you worked with him all the time,  or. . .  

PETE SAMPRAS:  I am with him -- our contract  is basically about 26, 27 weeks of the year and I'd say  20 of those he is with me at tournaments and the other  time he is down training working on my game, so it has  been a great relationship, and Tim and I get along.  I  respect him.  We communicate real well.  I think those  are the ingredients you need for a really good  player/coach relationship.  


Q.  For next year did you take your decision for  Davis Cup?  Do you know if you are going to play the  first round of Davis Cup?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  I haven't made any firm  decisions, but what I will tell you is that the timing  of the first and second round really doesn't work with  my schedule to play a Davis Cup tie the week after the  Australian.  It is something that I am not too sure  what I am going to do and I will decide that, probably  when the year is over.  


Q.  Pete, did you doubt before winning in Antwerp  or was it difficult for you this time?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Winning in Antwerp?  No, the  previous -- the guys I lost to in Stockholm and Paris  ended up winning the tournament, so I was playing  against guys on top of their game and one thing I  needed because the summer was -- I didn't play any  matches during the summer, I needed to play some  matches, I think.  Antwerp is good preparation.  I won  there last year and got to the final here, so I don't  think there are any doubts in the back of my mind  because I still have the confidence that I am tough to  beat if I am playing well, and Antwerp was a good  week.  I didn't play great.  But I played well enough  to win.  


Q.  It is true that you trained at 10 o'clock  last night?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Well, I felt I did last -- I  got in about 9:30 and hit some balls last night because  I feel that the court here is much different than it is  in Antwerp and the balls are different, so I think I  need to hit a lot of balls to get used to the timing of  the court, because Antwerp is so much quicker; whereas,  here, I think is a really nice medium-paced court which  I think will result in better tennis.  


Q.  If you compare it to the surface in Stockholm  and Paris, this one is fastest?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  No.  No.  Stockholm was the  fastest and then Paris was the slowest and this is  right in the middle.  So I think it is good.  It is the  same court as last year and so it should be good  tennis.  


Q.  Next year you are going to play more clay  tournaments?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Yeah.  


Q.  This season, when did you take this decision?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  I talked it over with Tim and  we kind of just talked about next year and my schedule  and the goals I want to try to get and I think the  French Open is something that I definitely want to  accomplish winning there, so I feel I need to play more  on clay.  So for the past couple of years I have gone  to Asia; whereas, next year I am going to be being in  Barcelona and Monte Carlo, so I will be a month and a  half before the French, so I think the preparation will  hopefully work for me.  


Q.  Pete, are you surprised how successful Andre  has been of late; how well he has been playing?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  No.  I mean, I think we all  knew that Andre has much talent as anyone.  And he just  basically just put it altogether in the past three,  four months he is fit; he is moving well, and he is  playing well.  He is one of the tougher guys to beat on  the Tour, so I think we all knew that he had the talent  and he has obviously put it altogether recently.  


Q.  Do you think there is any particular reason  why now?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  I think Brad has helped him in  a lot of ways; got him practicing more and stuff like  that, and Andre has always been a tough guy to beat.  I  mean, even for anyone, he has just been a bit up and  down with his career and recently has been showing a  lot of consistency, so hopefully our rivalry] Can turn  into something pretty special.  I am looking forward to  that.  


Q.  Are you feeling really fit now?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Yeah.  


Q.  It has been a good few months?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Yeah, it has been a good year,  but scary thing is, it really could have been a lot  better.  I didn't play at all during the summer and  losing that match in the U.S. Open for not being in  shape putting more salt to the wound if you know what I  mean, I just try to put that whole experience behind me  and put it behind me and try -- hopefully I can play  well here.  


Q.  Last couple of weeks, we have been watching  on Sky it was as if you were trying to get ready for  here?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  No, I was trying to win those  points, but I mean, Frankfurt is obviously a huge  event.  I will definitely want to play well here, and  the guys I lost to in Stockholm and Paris, they both  won the tournament, so I was playing with guys that  were on the their game....  Antwerp gave me some  confidence.  Always nice to be in the winner's circle  again.  


Q.  Where do you put this just after the Grand  Slam?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  I think you got to put this  after the Grand Slams.  I don't think you can put it  quite as the same as the U.S. Open.  


Q.  The players do regard this as American  playoff?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Yeah.  


Q.  Who is responsible for that beard?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Delaina was.  She wanted me to  grow a goatee and I did for a little while; then I cut  it off.  I started growing it again.  I figure  something different; why not.  


Q.  What have you decided?  What is the fate?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  It is off.  I am going to keep  it off.  I shaved it about an hour ago.  


Q.  Tell us about Tim.  We saw some horrendous  pictures of him.  

PETE SAMPRAS:  He is doing a lot better.  He  had a bit of an accident.  


Q.  On a glass table?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Yeah, broke his septum part of  his nose; had surgery done and I'd say 20 stitches on  his face, so he is all healed up.  He is fine.  


Q.  He is here?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Yes.  


Q.  So everything is going well?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Yeah.  Healthy.  


Q.  How about all the injuries?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Healthy, and playing pretty  good.  I played pretty good week of tennis in Antwerp,  but I didn't play great and I am healthy.  I am ready  to go this week, so. . .  


Q.  You feel not the same as before in the time  of Wimbledon or. . .  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Well, I think. . .  


Q.  Close to it?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  It is really hard to say.  Wimbledon was a completely different surface.  


Q.  But I mean, in total?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Yeah, I felt as far as my  physical or. .  


Q.  Yeah.  

PETE SAMPRAS:  I feel I am not playing with  any pain anywhere in my body, so that is the most  important thing.  And as far as my confidence, it is  definitely there.  I feel like I can win the event.  I  am obviously in a very tough section; playing 3 guys in  a row that, you know, are some of the greatest players  to play, so it will a good effort just to get to the  semi.  


Q.  Everybody is saying that how funny it is to  see Agassi come back and you also said.  Do you really  feel that it is fun to see somebody like him coming  back and to be a danger for you for your No. 1 spot?  Can you appreciate it?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  It is good for the game.  I  think in the past couple of years I think a rivalry  really hasn't been there and I think Andre and I can  turn it into something pretty special because our games  are so different; our personalities and lifestyle and I  think we all knew that Andre has as much talent as  anyone.  It is just a matter of putting it altogether.  I think Brad has helped him out with that at the Open  and he has played well in Europe, so, sure, I'd love to  have a much bigger lead from 1 and 2, but Andre is a  great talent; great for the game and I am looking  forward to playing him again.  


Q.  It is possible for you when you are No. 1  like you are, you were so far away from the others to  get be bored by that; you need some incentive?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  No, I don't need any  motivation.  Motivation is just trying to stay on top.  If you lose that desire of motivation, then the only  place I can go is down and obviously I don't want that  to happen, so...  


Q.  You are in the group where you are  head-to-head with Becker, Ivanisevic and Edberg, right?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  I guess I won't be here on the  weekend.  


Q.  It is some motivation for you or something  you feel?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Well, it is the same that I  think it would have been better for the event if it  would have been a couple of guys playing that really  has a contrast in style; if I was playing a Chang or  basically anyone in the other group, it is fun to watch  a contrast in style of play.  That is just the way the  draw works sometimes and nothing, obviously, we can do  about it now, so like I said, I think to get through  the semi wouldn't be easy.  


Q.  Did you practice at all here?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Last night.  


Q.  How are the conditions here?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Much better compared to  Antwerp.  I feel it is much slower.  And it is much  slower, the court. They are using the same balls as in  Paris and I think the game needs to be slowed down a  little bit because playing in Stockholm and Antwerp, it  is just too fast.  I don't think -- it is probably not  fun to watch and it is really not fun to play, to tell  you the truth.  This court, I think you can see a guy  playing well from the backcourt and coming in, so I  think it is more fair.  


Q.  Quite the same as in Paris or faster?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  I'd say it is very similar.  Very similar.  Maybe a little bit quicker, but very  little.  


Q.  Pete, is it slower than last year?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  It is the same court.  


Q.  Some people seem to say it is slower, the  balls are heavier?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  I think the balls, they puff  up a little more, so that will make it a little  slower.  Which I think is good.  Balls do make a  difference.  The court is the same.  


Q.  Surface is quite the same?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  It is the same court.  


Q.  You prefer a little slower?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  I prefer -- I don't mind  playing on anything except maybe the red stuff.  I  prefer playing on a slower court than a faster court.  That is the kind -- wouldn't you agree Mary, rather  play on a slower court. 

MARY CARILLO:  Yes.  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Thanks.  Nice, honest, fair  surface; it is better for everyone.  


Q.  Pete, did you vote last week?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Oh, no.  


Q.  You were here?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  You mean Republican/Democrat  thing?  No, but I was pretty happy with the outcome.  


Q.  I thought you would be.  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Yeah.  


Q.  But Florida is still -- Childs won.  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Yeah.  As long as Clinton goes  down, I will be happy.  I don't mean that in a mean  way.  


Q.  No, I understand.  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Don't quote me on that.  


Q.  No, I won't.  What do you think about Stefan Edberg this  year?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Stefan had a bit of an  up-and-down year, but I think he has given me problems  in the past.  I don't like guys that come in a lot.  He  comes in on both his serves and my second serve; a lot  depends on my return and his return and that will  determine who will win.  And the other guys, obviously,  I have played them and I have a losing record against  everyone, so I am not off to a good start.  


Q.  Goran Ivanisevic?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Goran, got the biggest shot in  the game in the serve.  He gets it going basically  unreturnable and -- but I beat him here last year in  one of my better matches, so it can be done, and it is  very similar kind of match with Stefan; return of serve  is going to be a big part of it.  


Q.  Already spoken in Paris about Boris, but one  question about the many players they say that if he is  playing very good, he has an unbeatable face; they told  us sometimes that you see in his face that this time he  is in very good shape.  Do you feel that way with  Becker?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  I guess you can kind of see it  in his eye.  If he is focused and diving for the balls  then he is into it.  He is going to be very tough to  beat, but he is beatable.  I beat him here a couple of  years ago in front of his home crowd, so I am looking  forward to that.  


Q.  Every sportsman, they have a little bit --  they are a little bit superstitious.  Goran Ivanisevic  told us that in Tokyo he eat everyday at 12:15 exactly  one cake for winning the match and he is doing it all  the week.  Are you also a little superstitious?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Not really.  I really don't.  


Q.  You watch soccer?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  No, that is for sure, I don't  watch soccer.  I don't know.  I don't have any  superstition.  


Q.  What do you say about the coaches?  Goran  first told us it is more friend than a coach.  What do  you like very much with your coach and what you don't  like with him?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  The reason I like Tim is that  he is kind of a no B.S. Guy.  He will tell me what he  is feeling.  He is not one of those guys that is just  going to say you are playing great just to make me feel  great if I am not.  The reason we have coaches-- I  really can't see if my toss is getting lower or if it  is getting too far to the left.  He can see that; where  I can't, and he is always good at scouting and seeing  different areas of other guys' games that might be a  bit of a weakness.  I think you need to respect your  coach; need to communicate and that is one thing Tim  and I have been doing the last three years; that is why  it has been working.  


Q.  He has something you don't like, something  special; what is boring with him?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Well, I mean, no one has ever  said Tim is quiet.  He can definitely talk.  In fact, I  think I think he can talk under water, so he can drive  me a bit nuts with his stories.  I have heard them  around 30 times this year.  Other than that, he is fun  to be around.  


Q.  You are here for the fifth time?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Yeah.  


Q.  Do you know Apple wine?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  No.  


Q.  It is a special drink.  You have to try it.  

PETE SAMPRAS:  I will try it.  


Q.  Thanks a lot.  If there was any rule that would you like to  be changed in 1995, which one would you ask for?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  As far as the game?  


Q.  Yes.  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Nothing.  


Q.  Nothing at all?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  No.  


Q.  Points?  Serve?  Net?  Everything?  Rackets?  Balls?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  I am pretty happy with the way  things are right now.  I think maybe they can slow the  court down a little bit at certain cities.  At certain  places like Stockholm.  I mean, it is too fast to enjoy  playing and watching.  


Q.  Do you think or do you feel there is a change  that people acknowledge you much more as an all-around  sportsman?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  I think people have always  kind of respected my tennis, and the way I conduct  myself, you know, as far as popularity, I think  somebody like Andre Agassi who shows a lot more emotion  and is a bit more flamboyant; a bit more popular, to be  honest with you, that is fine with me.  I need to play  my tennis.  I don't need any distractions off the  court.  I just need to keep things as simple as  possible.  That is what works for me.  Every sportsmen  has a different way of approaching their sport and the  way I do it is the way I am most comfortable, so it is  always been working recently.  


Q.  Speaking about the championships, could it be  an advantage for you now to have had this break that  you didn't plan to do, but maybe other players are  burned out by now in a way and you are fresh?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Well, I would have loved to  have played during the summer.  I mean, that was the  most frustrating time in my career because everything  was going so well, but I have played three straight  weeks so I am pretty fresh, but I mean, I wouldn't mind  having a couple of days off, but unfortunately I played  on Wednesday, so I feel like I am fit and ready to go  and everyone else, I am sure, is ready to go.  I was  the only guy that played last week which hopefully will  work to my advantage, so we will see what happens this  week.  


Q.  Almost nobody speaks about players like  Berasategui or even Bruguera and Michael Chang here  thinking about who would be in the finals.  Do you  think from their point of view, it might be a bit  unfair to only play the seasons final on fast courts?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Yeah, absolutely.  Berasategui  got to the finals in the French.  Chang, probably his  best surface is outdoor on hard court and Bruguera is a  clay court player, so, but I mean, that is only place  you can put an event in Europe at this time of year is  indoor because it is obviously too cold out there. It  is unfair.  Sure, it is unfair for those guys, I mean,  but this is the way the Masters and ATP Finals has  always been, indoors.  


Q.  But there are different kinds of surfaces for  example that are much slower than this one?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  I hit last the couple of days  and I'd say it is a little bit quicker, but not a lot.  I think this court is a court that you can serve and  volley and stay back and both be very effective, so I  think it is fair.  I think it is a fair surface.  


Q.  Speaking with fairness, I think also the  German players don't mind to have these championships  every year here in Germany?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  I wouldn't mind them being in  Tampa, Florida where I live, but it is one thing that  is good that the Tour does a great job running the  event.  It is packed every night and one thing about  the Masters, when they had it at the Garden, it wasn't  sold out.  It is nice to play in front of 9,000  screaming Germans; hopefully rooting for you and not  against you, like if you are playing Boris, it is fun.  


Q.  Anything special about this place here in  Frankfurt?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Atmosphere is great and it is  always nice to play in front of the German fans which I  think really know the game quite well.  Obviously,  Boris and Michael have made tennis much more popular  versus playing in front of a thousand people in a place  isn't, you know -- you have done it before, but it is  nice to play with the atmosphere like it has been in  the previous five years I have been here.  


Q.  Is it disturbing playing against a crowd, a  German player or is it even maybe motivating?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  I don't know it is  motivating.  It can make a difference.  And -- but I  had beaten Boris here in front of his home crowd a  couple of years ago so I know it can be done and it is  just basically just one against one.  The crowd can  help out a player, but, you know, I don't think it is  really going to be a big deal.  It is not like Davis  Cup, but I am sure it will be loud.  


Q.  Did it influence last year the German crowd?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  The German crowd seems to be--  when I played Boris seems like it is much more loud  than when I played Michael here a couple of times.  You  can definitely hear them, but it is not quite the same.  


Q.  Your explanation for this difference?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Well, you probably know the  answer better than I could.  Boris is much more  popular, I am sure, in Germany.  He gotten tennis very  popular here and I am not saying Michael hasn't, but  Boris was the first one, and I think that is the  reason.  


Q.  You had a ten o'clock court booked.  Did you  use it?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Yeah.  


Q.  Is that usual?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Unusual, but the circumstances  are that I feel like I need to get used to the court  because the court in Antwerp was very fast and  different balls and the court here is much slower so I  felt like I needed to hit a lot of balls and that is  why when Tim told me if I get -- if I feel okay, hit  some balls.  I only hit for like 45 minutes just to get  used to the surroundings and so it is not like I have  been here since Friday like Chang has.  He is pretty  much ready to go where I think I need an extra day.  


Q.  How do you feel?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Good.  I feel better.  I feel  like I have more time to hit the ball because the court  is slower; ball bounces up a little higher.  I think it  is going to be good tennis.  


Q.  Goran said combination between the surface  and the balls are little bit slower than the previous  years here.  Do you think so?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  I know the court is the same.  The balls are different.  It is a Penn ball and they  fluff up a bit more, and so that will slow it down a  little bit.  


Q.  Do you think that goes as an advantage for  you because guys like Goran and Boris can really. . .  

PETE SAMPRAS:  You can put a basketball in  Goran's hand and he will still hit an ace.  I don't  care what you put in his hand, he can still do it.  I  don't think it is any advantage or disadvantage.  I  think it is pretty much the same for everyone.  It  might help out the baseliners a little bit more, but I  think the two sections are very different.  Baseliners  playing against each other and serve and volleyers all  playing against each other.  


Q.  If you look at the head-to-heads, the career  head-to-heads between you and the other players of your  group, you are always down; is that kind of scary for  you?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Well, I guess I am not off to  a good start so -- no, it is not scary, but Goran had  beaten me a number of times, but I think I have got the  big one at Wimbledon this year and Boris, I think our  record -- maybe has one or two more wins against me and  Stefan and I are pretty even, so it is nothing to be  scared about.  


Q.  Are you healthy?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Yeah.  


Q.  Definitely?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Yeah.  It is good; isn't it.  It is better than not being healthy.  


Q.  Which do you think was the biggest surprise  in tennis this year?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  The biggest surprise as far as  the players or the Grand Slam.  


Q.  In tennis?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  I think Berasategui getting  into the finals of the French, that wasn't a prediction  that a lot of guys thought was going to happen.  And  Andre winning the Open, I mean, it didn't surprise me  but I think it surprised a lot of people, but I knew  that he always had the capability of winning Majors and  so I guess that is about it.  


Q.  What do you think about they didn't do any  doping in U.S. Open this year.  I mean, is it possible  that sport so important like tennis doesn't do any  doping in a tournament like that?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Well, we do a lot of doping,  but the U.S. Open -- I don't know.  I have no problem  doing it.  I really don't have the answer why they  don't do it.  Maybe it is an ITF.  


Q.  Do you think they have to do something for  doping in the future?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  I don't think -- I don't think  players use drugs.  I know they don't use drugs, but it  is obviously good to be safe than sorry.  Maybe that is  a question you should ask the USTA, but I have no  problem with it.  


Q.  I want to ask you one thing.  You look ahead  to 95; take men's tennis as a whole.  If there is one  change you'd like to see made to improve men's tennis,  what would it be?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Only one I can say?  


Q.  You can say as many as you'd like but one  that stands out.  Could be anything.  

PETE SAMPRAS:  I think that tennis needs an  off-season, I mean, that is the one thing I have had --  there is really no off-season.  I wish that the -- some  events on the Tour, I wish they could slow the surface  down a little bit.  It is too fast.  


Q.  Bruguera said the same thing.  

PETE SAMPRAS:  I know he is going to say  that.  He'd rather have every surface on clay.  


Q.  Talking about the off season.  From when to  when, Pete?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  I would say maybe Frankfurt  would end a month ago.  We could have, you know, 2 1/2  months off to do a number of things, to rest, to have a  bit of a normal life; to work on things in your game,  because tennis is really the only sport that doesn't  have an off-season.  Does golf have an off-season?  


Q.  Well... A little bit.  

PETE SAMPRAS:  I think if all the top players  can agree to that and which I think they will, I think  maybe one day that could happen.  


Q.  But that is not going to improve the ability  of the players.  I mean, you are all at the top of your  game.  It would reduce injuries, primarily?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Yeah, I wouldn't play as  much.  I would have more time to rest; to train more;  to get in good shape, and so I mean, that is the way  I'd see it.  I don't think that is going to happen.  


Q.  It is pressure of money that stops this from  happening?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Yeah, tournaments directors  have tournaments and so. . .  


Q.  What else, Pete?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  To change the game?  


Q.  You said it.  You said you have a lot of  them.  

PETE SAMPRAS:  I think the Tour is going to  change the ranking system and I think it is good.  I  think they are going to do -- I think that every time  you walk out onto the court, it should count and the  system they have right now, that is not the case.  You  could have 25 events, 30 events like a lot of guys do  and losing the first round of 13 or 14 and not be  affected.  I think you should be affected.  I think-- I  don't know the details, but they are going to go to  maybe a bit of an average system, but. .  


Q.  What about those that don't win on the court  every time saying hang on now, you should take our  performances because we are not as good as you.  

PETE SAMPRAS:  That is too bad.  I don't  know.  I mean, -- but I just think every time. . .  


Q.  It is frustrating for the top players.  I can  see that.  

PETE SAMPRAS:  It should count.  Sometimes  you feel like you are playing lesser ranked guys that  really have nothing to lose; they hit two first serves;  if they lose, they go off to the next tournament and  they are not affected.  I don't think that is good for  the game.  


Q.  Pete, can you tell something about the Agassi  personality.  I mean, you are surprised sometimes about  what he does on the court or out of the court.  Today  he was the only one without a shirt?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  I think his suit didn't fit  him, so... His suit didn't fit him so he wouldn't wear  it.  


Q.  What do you think?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Well, compared to my  lifestyle, it is very different.  He has a private jet  and he has fancy sports cars and I am much more  reserved.  


Q.  Why don't you have a private jet?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Because I don't need one.  


Q.  Because you have as many engagements and--  

PETE SAMPRAS:  I have no problem flying  commercial.  


Q.  Point taken.  

PETE SAMPRAS:  It is pretty expensive.  I  mean, I can certainly afford it, but that it is just a  lifestyle, so I don't -- maybe one day.  


Q.  What about the position with the Davis Cup.  Do you feel you are all ready to get heavily involved?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  No.  


Q.  Why is it -- forgive me, Americans seem to be  the only people possibly with the exception of Boris  that have this thing about not playing Davis Cup.  Why  is that?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Davis Cup in the United States  isn't that big.  People don't follow it.  People don't  understand it, and for me, the schedule of Davis Cup is  absolutely atrocious.  To play a Davis Cup Tie at the  first -- the week directly after the Australian is bad  and second Tie is week after Lipton, and that is too  much tennis, I mean, with my health problems the past  three, four months, it is really up in the air.  I am  sure I will think about it and probably give a decision  to the captain when this year is over.  


Q.  If America didn't have the strength and depth  that it had, in other words, any old person coming in  and playing winning anyway, would you change your views  about it?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  That is a good question, but I  would change my views about it.  


Q.  Would you play it if there weren't people who  could step in and beat most countries?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  If it worked with my schedule,  yeah, I would play.  


Q.  First time you met Agassi, do you remember  where?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Yeah, I played him -- he lived  in Vegas; I lived in L.A..  He drove and his family  drove to L.A. and I played him, I think, I must have  been about 9 or 10 and he was maybe a little bit --  maybe a year older.  


Q.  Do you remember what you felt about him?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  He used to hit-- he use the  Wilson extra racket.  He used to hit a lot of drop  shots and spin shots and kind of hot dog shots.  


Q.  Who won the match?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  I don't remember.  And kind of  toy with you.  


Q.  Who won the match, Pete?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  God, I don't remember.  I  really don't remember.  


Q.  After that, what is the feeling you are  between you and him?  Is it a good feeling?  Do you  feel more close?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  I got to know Andre better at  the Davis Cup where you kind of spend a lot of time  together, but like myself and Andre, you know, you  don't see too many guys in the top five, top 10 going  out to dinner.  I will practice with them.  I will hang  out with them a little bit, but that is really about  it.  


Q.  Your happiest moment this year?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  I'd say winning Wimbledon  again.  


Q.  And the worst one?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Being injured and the U.S.  Open.  


Q.  What will your ideal schedule be for the  year?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Probably maybe have a Grand  Slam every couple of months because it is -- I am over  in Europe for two months; over from Rome all the way  through Wimbledon and the French and Wimbledon are so  close together, I wish there was more time off in  between.  


Q.  I mean, number of tournaments, what would it  be?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  I don't have a number, but I  think there should be less tournaments.  I think there  are too many tournaments on the Tour that the public  and the press can't follow.  There is a tournament  every week and sometimes three or four events.  


Q.  The last player who was able to start the  year and finish the year like No. 1 was in 87, Lendl.  What is your feeling to do the same?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Obviously, it feels good.  


Q.  Yeah, but I mean, is something strange  because last past last years they have a lot of  changing, No. 1 and Becker and Edberg, Courier and now,  you feel you are dominating --  

PETE SAMPRAS:  I think if I am healthy and I  am playing my tennis, I think I am very tough to beat  and for the first four, five months I think I was very  tough to beat and the scary thing is that it was a good  year, but it really could have been a lot better.  I  could have won a couple of more titles during the  summer; could have played better at the U.S. Open, so I  really could have had 11, 12 titles and maybe a U.S.  Open, but obviously we can't do anything about that  now, so the year could have been better.  


Q.  Can you make some introduction to the match  against Ivanisevic?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Well, what do you want to  know?  


Q.  If you were a TV reporter what will you say  before the match Sampras Ivanisevic?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Well, I might ask how am I  going to get Goran's serve back and how do I feel  playing against him, and the answers are it is very  tough to get his serve back and I like my chances.  I  beat him a couple of times this year at Wimbledon and  beat him here last year, so it is a match that is going  to be very hard hitting and not a lot of service  breaks, so it will be a tough match.  


Q.  Comparing the final in Wimbledon, you are  stronger or not here comparing with the final in  Wimbledon?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  I haven't played him since so  I really don't know.  


Q.  You are feeling stronger?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Yeah, I feel fine.  I am  healthy and no problem with my body, so that is the  most important thing.  


Q.  Do you feel that Berasategui is qualified for  the Masters; do you think it is fair?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Yeah, he got to the finals of  the French.  He has won a lot of titles.  I am sure  he'd rather have the ATP Finals be on clay, but he is  in the top 8.  He deserves to be in --  


Q.  Do you think, Pete, if you didn't do well  here, would that in any way diminish, I mean, they call  this the World Championships would that in anyway  diminish your status as world champion?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  No, I mean, I could be happy  with my year.  I have won two Majors, which is the most  important thing in tennis.  I have won a lot of nice  titles and if I don't play well here, it will be  disappointing, sure, but I can always look back at my  year 94 and think it is a great year that could have  been better if I didn't get hurt and so the Grand  Slams, that is I will say it a thousand times is the  most important thing in my mind.  


Q.  Your next dream?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  I guess my next dream would be  winning the French.  


Q.  Do you think about winning all the 4 grand  slams the same year?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  I haven't ruled it out  completely, but I think it is something very tough to  do in today's game.  I think there are too many great  players and I think -- I am not saying it is  impossible, but I think the French is going to be a big  obstacle for me.  I am just hoping to win that one  year, so I don't think a Grand Slam is a realistic  thing I see in the future.  But you never know.  


Q.  Who do you respect the most for the Grand  Slams at this point? Do you see Andre as your nearest  challenger on clay at this point?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  I think there are a lot of  guys.  I think for instance for the Australian, Andre  is going down.  I mean, you have got to look at all the  Americans, Chang Courier, Martin, Stich, I mean, Andre  is not the only guy.  There are so many guys that are  tough to beat that when Andre and I -- it is definitely  a rivalry that I think can hopefully develop more and  more because our games are so different and our  personalities, I think, that is good for tennis.  


Q.  Do you enjoy this rivalry?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Yeah, when I played him in  Paris it was -- you definitely get pumped up and ready  to go; not saying you don't get pumped up playing  another top guy, but I think it is something the game  has been missing the past couple of years, so I am  looking forward to it.  Hopefully it will last awhile.  Hopefully it will last five or six years kind of like  the Borg and McEnroe rivalry was and so I think that is  what the sport needs.  


Q.  If we start hyping it up, you won't complain?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  I will leave that up to you  guys.  


Q.  The way he has come up in the rankings, does  that --  

PETE SAMPRAS:  It is kind of the way the  points have turned up.  I mean, Goran and Michael have  lost points and Andre didn't have a good U.S. Open and  didn't really play last fall because of his injuries so  he gained a lot of points and then he just rose  straight to the top that.  It is just kind of the way  the rankings goes sometimes.  


Q.  Do you think his game is going to go well in  Australia; he should do well on that surface?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Yeah.  The ball bounces up  pretty high there, so he will-- obviously he will not  feel -- the heat -- it is hotter than anyplace I have  ever played so that will be different.  It will take a  little while to get used to the court, but I am sure he  will be fine.  


Q.  Do you think that clay could be an obsession  for you like it was for McEnroe or Becker?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Or Lendl on grass?  I don't  think it will be obsession.  I think it is something  that is a challenge that is going to tough to win the  French.  I think I can play well on clay.  It is just a  matter of maybe getting more experience.  I feel I am a  bit behind the Brugueras and the Couriers.  I feel I  have to believe in myself when I am playing those guys  that I can beat those guys; that is the only way I can  win the French.  That is the one major that I want to  win right now more than anything, to be honest with  you.  If I can get all four in my career, I would be  very happy.  


Q.  Do you think, Pete, the one or two of the  less generous things that were said about you at  Wimbledon - people talk about the off-court things, do  you think if Andre comes up that in some way that will  be the clash --  

PETE SAMPRAS:  You can stop harassing me.  


Q.  You know, it is nothing personal? 

PETE SAMPRAS:  He is turning bright red.  


Q.  Do you think that is going to take the hjeat  off you a bit?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Absolutely, when Andre stays  in Wimbledon that is great for everyone.  All the  attention is towards him.  I remember this year when he  did lose and then Boris with all his controversy with  his gamesmanship, I mean, he had to deal with it for a  while, so it is kind of a distraction sometimes.  I try  to not have any distractions.  I try to keep things as  simple as possible.  


Q.  It will put you in perspective.  That is what  I mean, people will put you in a more -- in a real  perspective because they are not looking for everyone  to act like a clown --  

PETE SAMPRAS:  I think the press was trying  to find something in me or trying to create something  that wasn't there.  


Q.  But a rivalry will --  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Will help.  


Q.  -- will take that away?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Yes.  


Q.  That is what I am saying.  

Q.  Do you think you have learned something from  Agassi yourself?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Not really.  


Q.  Nothing?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Well --  


Q.  Of his personality?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  No, I am pretty happy with the  way I am on the court.  


Q.  Why do you think Ivanisevic is not there and  to become No. 1; what do you think he needs?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  A couple of points at  Wimbledon he could have been the Wimbledon champion and  maybe changed his -- that would have been huge, but he  came up short twice now and, you know, I think  consistency is something that he has got to play well  every week and every week and I think he is doing  better at that, but I think he can be better.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT