COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
December 10, 1993
Pete Sampras
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Your thoughts of being in the semis here once  more?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  I am thrilled.  I am obviously happy.  I beat  Michael for the second straight time.  He has given me  a lot of problems in the past.  The tennis, I felt,  wasn't really all that great today.  But I managed to  get through it and served pretty well when I had  to.  But, you know, I am kind of surprised I went through  this far because I really didn't know what to expect,  because I didn't practice at all the last couple of  weeks after Frankfurt.  I played more golf than I did  tennis.  So it feels good to get through it.   
 

Q.  Did you think it was pretty good tennis in  the first set, Pete?  Second few more mistakes, but --  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  I mean, I really didn't feel that comfortable  today.  I really felt I didn't hit the ball that well.  Maybe, you know, playing Michael for so many years has  something to do with that.  I don't think really any of  us really felt that great because the court is so  quick.  It is really tough to get a good rhythm out  there.  Obviously, it is great for my serve and volley,  and I managed to serve really well on the breakpoints,  but I don't know what it looked like, but I felt like I  didn't really hit the ball that great.  Hopefully, it  will get better tomorrow.   
 

Q.  Pete, how much better do you think Michael is  now than when he won the French, because he obviously  worked so hard and he serves quite big now?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  You have to give him a lot of credit because  he has really changed his game for the surfaces.  He  has gotten better on the grass and on indoor supreme;  you have to give him a lot of credit.  He has changed  his game.  Obviously, he is still a counter-puncher,  but he is coming in more and mixing it up more and  serving better, so you just have to give him a lot of  credit.  He realized in order to stay somewhere in the  top 10, you have to be a bit more aggressive and he has  done that.  With the help of his brother Carl, I think  he is going to be a player that is going to be around  for a long time.   
 

Q.  Michael Stich said earlier this week, Pete,  that after all that has happened to him this year he  has come here with no pressure; doesn't feel any  pressure at all.  Are you in the same boat?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  Yeah, exactly the same boat, basically.  It  is just a little extra Christmas money.  But I  definitely wanted to play well here, you know; try to  end this, the third year, on a very positive note.  Regardless of what happened here, obviously it has been  a great year, didn't quite prepare really that well;  didn't practice too much last couple of weeks, and, you  know, I just, you know, here I am in the semis.   
 

Q.  If it is Christmas money, what is on the  shopping list?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  That is a good question.  Couple of different  things I am looking at, but maybe a couple of jetskis,  Wave Runner, something like that; that should be a good  Christmas for me.   
 

Q.  You say you hadn't prepared much before  coming here.  Don't you think that may have been a good  thing; you probably needed a break after the five  weeks; you probably would have been worse off?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  Absolutely, I definitely needed to put the  racket up and let my mind have a rest.  Five straight  weeks in Europe, playing pretty well, you know; I just  needed to just get away.  And I didn't hit a ball for  about seven, eight days; maybe hit a couple of hours  before I came here, which is great; which is something  I definitely need.  Just some down time to put the  racket up and relax and just enjoy life, because  obviously this tour is pretty tough sometimes and you  know, I flew in here the day before it started, and,  you know, you get a little lucky sometimes.   
 

Q.  Pete, Dr. Meyer-Wolden told us that he was  wondering about that the players, the players here,  would make a claim to the ATP for the point allocation  of this tournament.  What do you think about it?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  A political question.  I am not too good at  these questions.  Really, you were the first person  that has mentioned that to me.  I haven't heard about  points being given here.  I really would have to think  about it.  So I really can't answer it.  Sorry.   
 

Q.  Pete, when you were winning first time here  in Munich, afterwards you gave the foundation $250  million --  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  I don't have that much.   
 

Q.  Do you know what happened with this  foundation?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  Yeah, I gave a quarter of a million to  Cerebral Palsy, which they ended up building a house in  the Los Angeles area for people with Cerebral Palsy?  I basically did that for my father, whose  sister had it, and we have talked about if there was a  moment that I can do something really nice for him, so  it was a great opportunity three years ago to donate  some money.  And, as it turned out, I had a decision to  either -- had a decision to either give it to a lab and  do some science work, and maybe build a home, and that  is what they have done.  Basically they named it kind  of a Pete Sampras home in the L.A. area for people with  Cerebral Palsy.   
 

Q.  What do you think of Nick Bollettieri  officially coaching Boris Becker?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  I haven't really thought about it too much.  But I think Boris definitely has a lot of other things  going on in his life, and Nick - who I know pretty well   - is a great motivator, and maybe that is something  that Boris needs is somebody to get him excited about  playing the game and enjoying it.  Again that is  obviously a question you have to ask Boris.  I have  thought about it for two minutes since you asked the  question.   
 

Q.  Yesterday Stich said that he hoped to have a  good a year next year as he did this year, it would be  tough to do that.  Even if he did and he was going for  No. 1 it would be unreachable if you continued to play  the way you are playing.  Do you think you will be  unreachable again next year?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  If I am playing the way I am playing?   
 

Q.  In his opinion you are unreachable, he said.  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  Am I unreachable?  Thank you, that is a good  compliment.  Obviously, to duplicate what I did this year  is going to be a pretty tough task.  I definitely did  get the breaks this year, especially with my Wimbledon  victory.  But I think one thing that I am doing well, I  am still enjoying it.  You can still have fun being No.  1, and I think a lot of guys in the past, I don't know  if they can't handle the pressure or they think they  can't handle it, but I seem to enjoy it.  It is  something that it is a a great achievement.  I hope to  stay No. 1 for as long as I can.  The main thing is I  am not putting too much extra pressure on myself.  I am  just going out there and playing the game I have always  been playing for the last three, four years.  That is  really it.  So I just -- just keep on enjoying it; have  fun.   
 

Q.  Thank you, Pete.  

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT