COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
December 8, 1993
Pete Sampras
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Pete, how was the golf?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Well, I played more golf the last couple of  weeks than I have tennis, so it is getting better.  


Q.  Thomas hit some great returns in the first  set, but did you feel that you slipped back into it  fairly comfortably?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Beginning Love-40 game, I got through it  okay, but you know, he started getting on my serve a  little bit better.  I started mixing it up in the  middle of the first and all the way through the rest of  the match.  I really felt like if I hit the one down  the middle he really had no chance to get it back.  I  was a bit surprised how well I played today considering  I only practiced two, three hours the last couple of  weeks, so it is good to get through it.  


Q.  Improvement you made this year since previous  year, your lowest level is quite high now?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  My lowest --I don't understand. 


Q.  You used to be a bit up and down this year.  You have been quite consistent.  Is that sort of the  main improvement?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Yeah, that is -- the main improvement is my  consistency and when I am not playing well, I seem to  get through those matches and I feel like my new coach  Tim Gullikson has really instilled me practicing much  harder and instead of practicing three hours and not  that intense, practice an hour and a half and really  work hard and so I think that just carries over in my  matches.  And you know, the harder you work, the  luckier you get.  I really believe that.  The year has  just basically gotten better and better, the last  couple of months.  The No. 1 ranking was something I  wanted to achieve.  I got it in Antwerp, so you know,  it is a year that you know, I will always remember.  


Q.  Pete, what would be your preparation going  into the Australian Open and do you think you are a bit  prepared win that event?  

PETE SAMPRAS:  Yeah, decided to play Qatar which doesn't  give me really time off.  I am taking the week off  before the Australian Open to train; get used to the  court and last year I played a little bit too much.  I  played in Sidney, played five days in a row and I just  got a bit tired at the end there losing to Stefan in the semis.  I don't have too much time to recover.  I  have three weeks off and I go to Qatar, but the week  off before the Australian, I feel hopefully will help  me out in the long run, but it is definitely the first  Slam of the year and that is my main goal right now.  


Q.  Thank you, Pete.  

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT