ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 21, 1993
Pete Sampras
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Tell us something you didn't say outside.  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  Who said that?   
 

Q.  Me.  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  What did you say?   
 

Q.  Tell us something you didn't say outside.  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  Out on the court?  Well, it is  disappointing.  Like I said, I obviously had a great  year, and I can hold my head up high, but I had my  chances today, but Michael, you know, when we get down  to the crunch time he seems to get through it - last  year at the Grand Slam Cup.  He won 3 breakers and  today he deserved to win.  He just played a little bit  more solid than I did.  But I will get over it.   
 

Q.  You both seemed very nervous; were you?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  I didn't start off like I have been.  First  game I got broken; that was obviously not a good  start.  But, you know, maybe a little nervous, but once  you start getting out there and playing him, I was  fine.  I am sure he was, too.   
 

Q.  Did the call at 3-1 in the first set tiebreak  really unsettle you?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  Well, it was close.  I thought it might have  been out.  I was hoping it was out.  But then it was  4-1, and he served it out.  It was disappointing, but  basically just evens out through the match.   
 

Q.  You don't usually show too much of that, few  times today you did--.  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  3-1 in the breaker, I will show some emotion.   
 

Q.  It happened a few other times today.  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  Yeah, I am normal; I show the emotion when I  get a bad line call, or if I am upset, but more or  less, I am pretty calm.   
 

Q.  You think perhaps, Pete, you peaked a bit  early yesterday, in fact, maybe five weeks continuous  play was a little bit much at the end?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  Maybe it cost me at the end, but yesterday, I  played at a level that was impossible to maintain, and  today was a different match and a different day, and it  was, you know, it was tough to play at that level  yesterday, but I didn't think I was going to be able to  do that.  Five weeks in a row in Europe, you know, it  has been a good trip, and maybe at the end there I just  got a little mentally tired and, you know, fourth set  he just served huge, and I really had no chance.   
 

Q.  Did you have any physical problems the fourth  set?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  No.  Just -- it was just kind of the air was  out of the balloon.  When I lost that third set breaker  it was, you know, I had some chances and, you know, he  just got on an early break, and he was -- he probably  aced me eight, nine times in that set, so --   
 

Q.  12?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  Sorry, 12.  Rub it in a little bit.   
 

Q.  You expect Michael Stich to become a strong  challenger and in the running for the No. 1 spot next  year?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  Sure.  He has a game that is a big game.  When he gets on a hot streak, like he has - four, five  weeks - he is a dangerous player.  He is obviously a  better player indoor than outdoor.  He will be in the  race.   
 

Q.  You got the No. 1 ranking at the end of the  year, what does that mean to you?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  That was my major concern and goal when I  came on this trip was to try to, you know, maintain  that ranking, and I felt good at Antwerp to get it.  That kind of took a bit of the pressure off me this  week.  Only 11 guys have done it.  It is a great  accomplishment.   
 

Q.  Don't you think it is a little tough for Jim  Courier to be not be No. 2 in the world?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  Well, Jim had a good year, getting a win in  Australia and two Grand Slam finals.  But you got to  give a lot of credit to Michael.  He, last four, five  weeks, he plays unbelievable.  Basically the ATP final  is kind of the last major title and he deserved it.   
 

Q.  What goes through your mind in Germany at the  end of a match which is designed to sort of create a  rather emotional atmosphere?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  What was going through my mind?   
 

Q.  Yes.  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  Obviously, still a little disappointed.  But  like I said to the fans, Michael just played a bit  better than I did, and I am happy for him.  He is a  nice guy, and he will be in the race for next year,  but, you know, just have to go home and rest and take a  little vacation.   
 

Q.  Do you feel the Grand Slam Cup, do you feel  the year is over, more or less, in your mind?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  Grand Slam Cup is still pretty important, but  I don't plan on picking up a racket for a while, just  -- just I will be picking up the golf club much more  than the tennis racket over the next two weeks.  I am  going to enjoy my time off and let it all sink in; the  year, it has just been getting better and better,  unfortunately, my ninth finally just wasn't good  enough.   
 

Q.  Tee time yet?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  I am playing with Vitas Gerulaitis.  Got it  all worked out.  Tuesday.   
 

Q.  Where?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  In my course in Tampa, so we have been  talking about it all week.   
 

Q.  Pete, did you hurt yourself when you took  that dive?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  I am sure tomorrow I will have a bit of a  strawberry on the side of my back area, but it is a big  point, breakpoint, and I dove.  But I am fine.  It  didn't affect me throughout the match.   
 

Q.  Pete, you had some feelings about when you  came here, about Europe.  Now, after this week has it  changed a little bit?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  Once you are winning matches, it obviously  makes the time go by much quicker.  I enjoyed my stay  here, my fifth week here, and Frankfurt I have always  played pretty well.  Each time I come here I seem to  enjoy it a little bit more because I am going to be  here for the next 3-4 months every year for the next  however long I want to play.   
 

Q.  Did you like the ceremony?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  Yeah, I thought it was -- the event did a  really nice job at the end.  Obviously Michael got a  bit emotional and the music and the whole thing.  It  was a sweet ending for him.   
 

Q.  How disappointed are you really right now,  losing this final compared to the other big finals of  the year, when you lost them before?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  I think the toughest final I had to get over  was losing to Edberg couple of years ago at the Open  where, you know, that was -- definitely different  degree of losing in the finals.  This one hurts, but,  you know, it doesn't hurt quite as much as a couple of  years ago, but it is important.  I mean, I definitely  wanted to win here, but the year is basically, in my  mind, more or less over.   
 

Q.  Would it be hurt more to lose this tournament  to some degree - you know what I am saying- in terms of  the ATP value?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  This tournament doesn't have quite the  prestige and history of a Grand Slam title.  I have  kind of been on both sides of winning them and losing  them, and there is a huge difference, and you know, I  am disappointed, but I seem to handle my losses pretty  well, and tomorrow morning I will be on the next flight  home and hitting the golf course.   
 

Q.  Anymore questions?         

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT