ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 19, 1993
Pete Sampras
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Was that match any different because you knew  you didn't have to win it to go to the semi?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  Well, we are both a bit looser, especially  Sergi, when he got on a roll in that second set.  He  played some great tennis.  It is not a meaningless  match.  It is a match where you pick up a little extra  money and some ATP points.  A match I definitely would  like to have won, and it is good to play baseliner.  Last two days I played some big and serve and  volleyers.  I am playing Andre tomorrow; hopefully play  some baseline rallies.  It is good for me.   
 

Q.  How do you look upon your semifinal match  against Medvedev?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  I have played him twice before and very close  matches.  He is obviously playing well, and he has got  a great backhand down the line, serves well, and he has  got -- he is coming in pretty confident.  He has come  back in two tough matches against Jim and Michael, so  he is feeling pretty good.  But if I play like I did in  the first and third set, I like my chances.   
 

Q.  I know you don't want to look so far, but I  need a statement from you about Michael Stich.  What do  you think about his improvement the last two years?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  He is -- definitely, this year he has had a  great year.  I don't know how many titles he has won,  but he performed pretty well in every Grand Slam and he  is 3 in the world; possibly 2 in the world, if he does  well here and that is a great year.  He has got a good  hard court game and competes hard and he is a player  that could stay in the top five for as long as he wants  too.   
 

Q.  When Goran Ivanisevic was serving so many  aces, did it make you suddenly worry slightly for your  own game?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  No.  I didn't see the match with Goran and I  heard about it, but the court didn't -- Paris was  pretty quick and I could see him hitting a lot of aces  but I wasn't too concerned about it.   
 

Q.  You don't think it is-- the fans are  beginning to turn against that type of tennis?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  Goran, when he gets on a good streak like  that, he his -- his serve is unstoppable and he just  got in a good roll there, I am sure, but I am not too  worried about it.  I mean, I think the fans seem like  they are enjoying our tennis.   
 

Q.  Pete, you have been maybe asked before many  times.  Are you satisfied with the way things are going  with the ATP Tour, Grand Slams and all the business?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  Yeah, I have no complaints about this year.   
 

Q.  Not at all?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  No.   
 

Q.  Pete, how would you describe your mood this  week, in general, do you feel very calm, relaxed or--  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  I feel great.  Playing pretty well, and you  know, regardless of what happens tomorrow and the rest  of the tournament, my year has obviously been -- it has  been great, but this week is important.  I definitely  would like to end my year on a positive note winning  here in Frankfurt.  Seems like the year is getting  better and better and hopefully this week I can win  it.   
 

Q.  Why is it important aside from ending this  year on a good note?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  It is the last major event of the year and if  you beat these guys, these guys back-to-back, five days  in a row, for me, if I do well this weekend is, you  know, pretty good effort.  The level of tennis is  pretty good and each match you have to come back and  you are playing someone in the top eight in the world  and that is a good effort for a guy to win here.   
 

Q.  Were you looking forward to play Sergi in the  surface that suits you better after losing with him  twice on clay?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  Yeah, I feel one level he is above me on the  clay.  He just seems to have a bit more consistency  from the backcourt.  You know, obviously the court here  helps me out, but he still plays very well.  He got on  a roll in the second set and, his serve, even though it  doesn't look like a huge serve, it is a serve that sets  up the point real nice for him.  Obviously it helps out  my chances when I play him on a quick court like this.   
 

Q.  Were you thinking about that, like, "this is  my court and I am going to beat him?"  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  Yeah, I was thinking, I am the favorite,  where, I think, on the clay, he is the favorite.   
 

Q.  Thank you.         

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT