ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 18, 1993
Pete Sampras
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Pete, have you read any good books recently?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  What does that mean, Richard?   
 

Q.  Do you know why I am asking?  Courier was  reading a book on court last night.  Were you  surprised?  Amazed?  Do you think that is an  interesting way to play tennis match?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  Tough question to start off with.  I am a bit surprised.  I really don't know  what to say about it.  I really didn't know -- you  know, maybe you should ask him, because obviously I  have never seen him do that.   
 

Q.  Would you ever think of doing it?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  No.  Never really thought about it.   
 

Q.  If you could read one book what would it be?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  Maybe a tennis instructional book.  Maybe Tim  Gullikson's TENNIS MAGAZINE, how to get your serve 50  mile an hour faster, but I don't think I will do that.   
 

Q.  Pete, you probably gather that apart from  readings books, Jim wasn't exactly at peace with the  world last night.  Is there any underlying grievance  the players have with tennis authorities that might  help us understand why he is as he is?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  Well, I think it has been a pretty  frustrating year for Jim.  He came close to winning his  third French against Sergi.  He had some chances at  Wimbledon against me.  When you come so close to win a  couple of Grand Slams, I can kind of relate after  losing to Edberg in 91, it could be a bit frustrating.  He is just a bit burnt out.  He needs some time off;  get his batteries charged up and get ready for  Australia.  That is his main concern right now.  He  will be fine.  I mean, he has got a good head on his  shoulders.  He works hard.  He will rebound okay.   
 

Q.  As far as you are aware, it is only a  personal thing; it is not anything to do with  displeasure with players and tennis authorities?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  What do you mean tennis authorities?   
 

Q.  Are all the top players okay with the ATP at  the moment and happy with the ATP Tour?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  I am.  I really haven't any problems with the  ATP.  I think they are doing a good job.   
 

Q.  Pete, the fact that you served 15 aces  against Ivanisevic and only 9 today - only 9 that is  pretty good number anyway - do you seal feel sort of a  confrontation with Ivanisevic having to serve more aces  than he does or is it a different question?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  Stefan stands a little bit further back on my  return.  He is able to, you know, get some serves back  that I thought were aces, especially on the wide deuce  serves and Ivanisevic, you know, I got on a good rhythm  today.  I served pretty well.  I let Stefan back in the  match.  But there is nothing I can think of.  Stefan  stands a little bit further back it is tough to ace him  one when someone is doing that.   
 

Q.  It is not a question of confrontation with  Ivanisevic, who serves more aces?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  No, like I said, I am concerned about  winning, not who hits the most aces.   
 

Q.  Pete, is a match like that stimulating to  play as it was for us to watch?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  Yeah.  It was fun.  Stefan and I have always  had good matches.  We both play pretty similar.  It  comes down to a couple of points here and there.  It is  fun.  He is a good competitor.  He is obviously going  to fight real hard 'till the last point.  But it is,  you know, it is fun when you play other top players;  you really get pumped up for it.  The crowd enjoys it.  And everyone is happy.   
 

Q.  Especially when you are the winner?  
 
PETE SAMPRAS:  Most always.   
 

Q.  Thank you.       

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT