U.S. OPEN
September 13, 1992
Pete Sampras
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q.   Pete, the doublefault in the tiebreaker, how much of
a factor was that?  Was that the turning point?

 PETE SAMPRAS:  I hit a lot of doublefaults the whole match, serving
for the third set at 6-5, doublefaulted on breakpoints, doublefaulted
the first point of the game. Just my serve kind of let me down.
 I served pretty well at the start, but as the match wore on,
I started pressing a little more and more on my serve, trying
to hit it too good.  My first serve percentage was very low throughout
the match.

 Q.   Was that trying -- You were thinking Edberg is quick,
you wouldn't know how you would hold up?

 PETE SAMPRAS:  As the match wore on, especially in the fourth
set, I was running out of gas.  It is just I have been playing
a lot of tennis this summer.  Maybe more mentally than physically.
 I just-- I was very tired, very exhausted.  I had a very long
night, last night, and didn't get too much sleep, but I am not
giving any excuses.  He won the important points.  But I can't
say that I didn't have my chances here.  Serving 6-5 and just
my serve kind of let me down a little bit.  He hit some good shots.
 I think the level of tennis wasn't all that great, that I thought
we were both pretty tentative out there.  But he came up the better
man.

 Q.   In two weeks you will be playing on clay; do you think
it will be a different result?

 PETE SAMPRAS:  Well, I am not playing singles, I am playing doubles;
hopefully, with McEnroe.  So I will leave it up to Jim and Andre
to do the job.

 Q.   When you look back on the year, you have had a lot of
good Grand Slams, but a lot of near misses, I guess.  Was it really--
does it hurt?

 PETE SAMPRAS:  I mean, this is the type of year I can look back
on.  I was close, but just wasn't enough this year.  I came close
at Wimbledon, and had my best chance here to play Stefan, a person
that I have beaten twice before, and I had my chances.  Started
off playing pretty well.  This is a year that I came across, but
it wasn't enough.

 Q.   What was wrong with your legs?

 PETE SAMPRAS:  My shins, especially in the third and fourth,
were getting very sore.  You know, just a lot of hardcourt tennis
for me, especially the last couple of months, it just takes it
toll.  But I am-- like I said, I am not giving any excuses.

 Q.   Would you tell us when you left here last night about
what time it was and when you got to sleep, and how sick you actually
were last night?

 PETE SAMPRAS:  Well, I just -- beat Courier, I guess I got into
the referees' office about 10:00 and got a couple of IVs into
me.  I was very dehydrated, had some diarrhea, just had a stomach
virus.  I guess I left here about 12:00; got back to my room and
got a massage and probably ended up going to sleep probably about
3:00, 3:30 at night, and I got up about 8:00 this morning.  So
it wasn't the best night, but I just didn't feel good after that
match.  Just had some stomach cramps and just dehydrated.  I wasn't
drinking enough, probably, but I had definitely had my chances
today.  I am not giving any excuses, like I said. It just wasn't
enough, today.

 Q.   Was there any doubt you would play today, at any point?

 PETE SAMPRAS:  Well, I mean, last night I went to sleep; I was
having some problems, cramps.  I woke up this morning still kind
of had them.  I took some stuff to hopefully settle my stomach
a little bit.  It seemed to work.  I was eating some proper foods,
rice and pasta, but I was definitely concerned.  But I think when
the afternoon came around, I was in fine shape.

 Q.   How much do you think that affected you today?

 PETE SAMPRAS:  It didn't affect me too much.

 Q.   Even in the third and fourth set?

 PETE SAMPRAS:  Maybe I showed it a little in the fourth.  I ran
out of gas a little bit.  My body was a bit stiff at that point.
 But in the first, you know, two and a half, three sets, I felt
fine.  After I lost that third, maybe, it was more mental than
anything.  Maybe mentally I was just I was telling myself, you
know, my body can't do it, and as a result, it didn't.

 Q.   Pete, you started so strong, it looked so swift.  Then,
about midway, after the second set, it seemed like a few things
happening, either mentally or physically, or did he come on much
better?

 PETE SAMPRAS:  I think he started playing a little bit better.
 Like, I serve-- my serve kind of let me down, didn't serve quite
as well.  It was really weird.  I had my chances in the third
set.  Had him Love-40; the first game; had some breakpoints. 
I was on his serve, I felt like, you know, at the changeovers,
I kind of felt it slipping away a little bit.  I had my chances,
and you know, played some loose points on my serves, but it is
a match I definitely could have won, if I would have gotten the
proper points. But as it goes, it wasn't enough today.

 Q.   This result will mean in the next rankings that Stefan
is number one, Jim Courier is number two and you are number three.
 Do you think that is an accurate reflection of where they stand?

 PETE SAMPRAS:  At this point, Stefan, he is deserving to be number
one.  Jim has had a very solid year, winning Australia and the
French.  I don't know what the point difference is.  I didn't
think of the ranking, playing today.  I didn't think about it.
 I didn't even know what the situation was, as far as if I would
have won or if he would have won.  He defended his title.  Jim
gets to the finals here last year and lost some points.  He deserved
it.  He won the biggest tournament in the world, or one of the
two biggest tournaments in the world.  You have to give him credit.


 Q.   Because of what happened in the Grand Slams, the near
misses, being a tough year, can you look back on this, saying
it was a good year, great year, or will these losses sort of--

 PETE SAMPRAS:  It was a good year, but like I said, I am not
satisfied.  Like I said, it came very close at Wimbledon.  I just
came close.  I couldn't finish it off, like today, it was just
one of those years that just missed.  It missed by-- I just missed
it.  But it was a good year.  I mean, I improved on some surfaces
that gave me problems in the past, on clay and grass, and I can
look back at this year and I thought I played pretty well on some
surfaces that gave me trouble in the past.  But this is my best
chance to, perhaps, win a Grand Slam, this year, was playing out
here today.

 Q.   Have you had a more difficult serving day, would you
say?

 PETE SAMPRAS:  I am sure I have, but--

 Q.   I mean, at a stage like this.

 PETE SAMPRAS:  What do you mean?  In the final?

 Q.   Well, since you have become a very good player.

 PETE SAMPRAS:  Yeah, I mean, I have had some very bad serving
days, but today was not the day to have that bad serving day.
 You know, I think I was just going for too much, trying to hit
the line and just missing it by inches, and then I had to stay
back a little bit, and he chipped and charged when he had to.
 It wasn't a good serving day for me, at all, today.  I think
I was just pressing a little bit too much.  I have had days like
this before where my serve didn't come through for me, but I feel
pretty confident, my groundies, that I can win some matches, but
playing someone like Stefan, you have to serve well.

 Q.   You haven't lost in so long; did you think about that
in the fourth set at all?

 PETE SAMPRAS:  No.  I mean, coming down to-- he saw me, my head
was dropping a little bit and my energy wasn't that high.  I think
he saw that, he started playing much better.  He played a pretty
good fourth set.  But you know, when I hit the 4-Love, I knew
my chances were looking very slim.

 Q.   How did you feel about the way you volleyed in the times
you did come in?

 PETE SAMPRAS:  Not particularly that well.  I didn't think I
played all that well today.  Returned okay.  And served  -- didn't
serve that well.  And volley, you know it's just a very sluggish
day for me.

 Q.   You commented on him defending the title. But can you
comment on from a player's point of view the achievement of the
way he did it?  Did it surprise you that he would win three, five
set matches; play five days in a row?     

 PETE SAMPRAS:  He definitely deserves it.  Almost losing to Krajicek
and having a tough match five hour match with Chang and come out
and he seemed like he looked pretty fresh today.  He deserves
it.  He came a from behind and did it.  That is the mark of a
champion.

 Q.   You said you were going for too much on your serve. 
Because of who you were playing or because of the occasion?

 PETE SAMPRAS:  Maybe because of the occasion.  Maybe I was a
bit tight especially when I was serving four -- at 6-5 -- doublefaulted
a couple of times.  My serve just basically let me down a little
bit, and you know, I usually serve pretty well against Stefan,
but I think maybe it was the occasion.  I was a little bit more
tight today than I normally would be.  I think that affected my
serve.

 Q.   You think you might have a greater appreciation of how
tough it is to win a Grand Slam than you would have two years
ago?

 PETE SAMPRAS:  Like I said, coming into this tournament I felt
like if I could have won.  I think it would have meant more to
me you know, this year as far as than 1990.  1990, it all happened
so fast; probably too fast.  I really didn't know what it all
meant.  After beating Agassi I felt like I just won a tournament.
 I didn't realize the importance and the history of this tournament.
 In coming in today, it was, yeah, I definitely knew of the importance.
 You know, it's a huge match.  It is one of the biggest tournaments
in the world, and-- but just-- I just came up a little bit short
today.

 Q.   Were you more tight this time than you were two years
ago?

 PETE SAMPRAS:  Yeah, I mean this time, two years ago I came out
and I had nothing to lose and I played Andre and he probably knew
of the occasion or the situation a little bit more than I did,
and losing the finals of the French couple of times, and he came
a little bit tight.  I think that showed, you know, I came out
a little bit tight today.  But you know, it's just a pretty tough
day for me at the office.

 Q.   Is the scheduling a little screwed up, because one of
the semifinalists is playing nine o'clock Saturday night; has
to come out on Sunday to play again?

 PETE SAMPRAS:  I think it's pretty disappointing.  This is the
only Grand Slam that does it.  The French, Wimbledon, Australia,
they play Friday and Sunday.  It gives that person a day off --
two people a day off, and then yesterday I get down at 9:30; by
the time you get a massage and sleep, it is late, and you have
to play the next day. I think the USTA or whoever makes the decision
you know, I don't know why they do that.  But I think it is unfair.
 I mean, you know, Stefan had a tough match five hour match. He
got done about four or five o'clock.  I got down about nine, ten
o'clock, so-- but it was-- I didn't feel like I had the advantage
or disadvantage.

 Q.   Thank you very much.    


 End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT