U.S. OPEN
September 5, 1992
Pete Sampras
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.   Can we now say that you have been tested?

 PETE SAMPRAS:  More than enough.  Yeah, you know, I knew, you
know, one day throughout this summer I was just going to be a
little off.  And today I was up against somebody who had nothing
to lose.  It came out at a time I was a little bit nervous, extremely
tentative.  This is the match where I found a way to win.  I was
not playing all that great throughout the whole match.  It was
to a point, down 6-2, 5-0, came back, played a bad game; lost
my serve 5-4. This was a match you just -- you have to find a
way to win.  And I did tonight.  It wasn't pretty.  But it was,
you know, a little bit luck.  But I see myself pretty fortunate
to be in this tournament, being down a break in the fifth set,
2-0, and you know, just-- you know, just an off-night for me.
 But it was a match where I had to pull it through.  

 Q.   When you came back to 5-4, back on serve in the third
set, did you think that you were back in gear; that you were--

 PETE SAMPRAS:  That point-- at that point, yeah.  I won the first,
7-6, then immediately down to 6-2, 5-0, and I wasn't serving real
well.  I think my body language was very, very down at that point,
and, you know, he got a little bit tight there serving at, I think,
5-1 and 5-3, but 5-4, I hit a couple of bad doublefaults.  I got
tight on my serves and then that was it.

 Q.   Being tested like that, what does that do for you for
the rest of the tournament?

 PETE SAMPRAS:  Well, you know, I feel myself pretty fortunate
just to be in this tournament.  It was a match I definitely could
have lost.  I play Forget, a player that has given me trouble
in the past.  I see myself pretty fortunate to still be here.


 Q.   Ivanisevic lost earlier today.  So you two are the only
seeded players left in your quarter.  Get by Guy--

 PETE SAMPRAS:  I am not looking that far ahead in the quarters,
got a tough match against Forget.  He beat me, obviously, in the
finals of Davis Cup, so, you know, a player that I have had trouble
with in the past. Hopefully, I will have a nice day off tomorrow;
I will get prepared for Monday.

 Q.   Thank you.        


 End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT