TMS - CINCINNATI
August 9, 2000
Pete Sampras
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How did you handle all these rain delays and lightning and everything that was going
on today?

PETE SAMPRAS: Well, the same like you always do. You just go in and wait for the rain
to stop and mentally just get ready to be prepared. Because once it stops, the rain, they
can get the court pretty quick -- dried up pretty quick. And it's always a little bit
difficult to know when to eat and when to warm up. You just got to deal with it. 

Q. At one point when the lightning came, did you actually ask the chair umpire to stop
the match?

PETE SAMPRAS: No. No, he just came on the court and said, "It's too close." I
just said, "It's your call."

Q. He just hung in there. 

PETE SAMPRAS: Yeah, he's got a huge serve, a huge serve. First and second. He just came
out swinging hard. Got a real big game, you know. Got a real good future with that weapon,
and the fact that he'll improve in some areas. But a good all-around court game. Came out
with a lot of energy and played real well. He had chances to break me in the second and --
but got a good future. 

Q. How are you feeling about your game tonight?

PETE SAMPRAS: Good. I feel like I serve-and-volleyed pretty well, threw in a couple
doubles. Started to press a little bit, returned quite well, and got through it. I feel
like I played pretty well. 

Q. How do you see -- I mean he's kind of one player that comes to mind, as well as Andy
Roddick. You've played with Andy in Davis Cup. How do you see the future for them?

PETE SAMPRAS: Well, I've never played Andy, I just practiced with him. But he possesses
a much different game, more of a baseline game, but also serves well. Taylor's game is
more dangerous because of the serve and the fact that he puts a lot of pressure on your
service games because he does serve well. You know, but you always look at someone's
second serve on how good he's really going to be, and I was looking at the clock and he
was serving over 100 and making them. That's a real sign to see what kind of serve he has.
That's always a little bit different, you know. He didn't obviously play with a lot of
pressure, so he can obviously serve his swing away. But he possesses the talent to take
his game a long way. 

Q. He didn't convert any of his break points. Do you feel like this was the kind of
match where really being a veteran and your experience really made the difference?

PETE SAMPRAS: Well, not necessarily. He hit a tape on one break point, a couple of them
I got some good serves in. It's not really experience. You know, he could have easily won
that second set. It's just reaction and trying to hit the right shot at the right time.
Experience plays a little bit in it, but not a great deal. 

Q. How are you feeling with your serve?

PETE SAMPRAS: Yeah, just, you know, going for big seconds. That's the nature of my
confidence in my second serve. I feel like I can pop it in there pretty good. Doing a few
doubles, so it's just a matter of rhythm a little bit, and rushing. I have a tendency to
do that sometimes when I double. Just taking my time and being a little bit more
deliberate is something I want to try to do tomorrow. 

Q. Your first serve is coming around 130. It looks to me like Sampras hit a groove. Do
you feel like you're getting in that groove?

PETE SAMPRAS: It's getting there. I felt the game's coming around. It was a
disappointment losing last week and trying to get going again, and hope I can build from
this win and carry on. But, you know, I feel like I'm moving well and I'm playing well.
That's all I can do, is play solid, and hopefully get through these tough matches. 

Q. Are you playing good enough tennis right now that you need to play next week? Are
you considering it?

PETE SAMPRAS: It's open. But if I win in the next couple days, it could be pretty
closed. So it's looking more no than yes at this point. 

Q. With these two Tennis Masters Series together and next week on the schedule, do you
feel you will probably have played enough tennis on hard courts?

PETE SAMPRAS: Yeah, it's three weeks on the hard court is probably -- for me, at this
point in my career, is probably a little bit too much back-to-back big tournaments,
possibly playing six days in a row. You know, it's important to go to the Open fresh in my
mind and in my body. And matches is what I need. I've had plenty of matches these past
couple of weeks. I've always enjoyed playing Indy, it's always been a shoe-in to play
there every year. But with the different schedule and playing Canada, it definitely
changed my thinking on Indy. 

Q. Can you talk a little bit about Tim? Obviously you've played some pretty close ones.


PETE SAMPRAS: He's come very close. He's obviously playing well. Our games are so
similar, we practice together all the time. And, you know, he knows what to expect from
me, and I know what to get from him. It's just a matter of who does it better tomorrow.
You play these guys close enough, especially someone like Tim, eventually he can break
through and win here and beat me. So we'll see what happens tomorrow. 

Q. (Inaudible)?

PETE SAMPRAS: He holds his own easily. He plays very well in practice. 

Q. (Inaudible)?

PETE SAMPRAS: No. I've been using the racquet since I was 14. It's an old-fashioned
racquet, it's not a wide body, not the high-technology titanium stuff. For me, power's not
the issue, it's control. That racquet gives me the control and the power that I need to
have a fine balance. And I string it very, very tight and it's a very heavy racquet. It's
kind of like using a blade in golf. It's a similar type of comparison. 

Q. Did you ever try out other racquets?

PETE SAMPRAS: No. Not with Wilson. 

Q. (Inaudible)?

PETE SAMPRAS: It's a possibility I could look into something. But at this point,
mentally, if it's not broke, you don't fix it. 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT