WAKE FOREST UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 9, 2017
John Wolford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Wake Forest - 34, Boston College - 10   
 Q.  What was the key to coming out here and getting a win on the road against Boston College?  
JOHN WOLFORD: It was a lot of things that went into the game.  I thought we were solid on both sides of the ball.  Obviously, the turnover margin was huge in determining the success of the game.  Defense did a great job.   
We were moving the ball on offense.  I still think there are some plays out there that could be made, but on the whole it was a good, good job by the entire team.   
 Q.  WHEN your defense is getting turnovers at the rate they are, does it put any more pressure on you not to turn the ball over?  Are you thinking in terms of let's just make sure we cash in on some of these?  
JOHN WOLFORD: I'm not thinking about that too much.  You're going out each play, trying to do your job.  Game situations change.  You're going to play a little different when you're playing with the lead.  You play with the lead when the defense makes that many turnovers.   
That's the only thing that can change because of that.  Other than that, I'm going out every play, whatever they call.  I'm trying to do my job.   
 Q.  Also a short field, though.  
JOHN WOLFORD: No doubt.  Whenever you get a short field, you want to capitalize.  I think we got points off turnovers every time, which is really good for our offense.  That's what we want to do.   
 Q.  Based on last year, failing on some of those third and ones, were those a little bit extra points of pride, converting?  
JOHN WOLFORD: Yeah, yeah.  We wanted to come out and BE a tough team.  Those downs are big to kind of show that toughness.  We have a bunch of respect for BC.  They're a tough team, a great defense, but we did a good job today.  The offensive line did a great job in those situations.  The backs did a great job.   
 Q.  Did you feel you weren't a tough team last year in the game against them?  
JOHN WOLFORD: I wouldn't say that.  There were just times -- the difference in the game last year, we turned the ball over, I think, twice, and we didn't convert a lot of those third and fourth downs.   
 Q.  As a senior, can you think back to what it was like a as a freshman?  They have a freshman, and he made mistakes.  He may learn something.  Can you think of what it was like for you and how you need to grow?  
JOHN WOLFORD: It's tough playing as a freshman, no doubt about it.  The amount of looks you see, the amount of focus it takes to be successful at this level.  But it's tough.  The biggest thing is you've got to try and come back each week and not let it get to you.  You've got to keep pushing when times are hard, and it will make you a tougher player down the road.   
 Q.  Your flight was delayed like four hours yesterday.  How much did that change your routine and preparation yesterday, and how did you guys kind of overcome that and get everything done?  
JOHN WOLFORD: What we did is normally we meet up here, but we did some of our meetings down in Winston-Salem so we weren't just sitting there idle.  We pushed some of those meetings up so when we got here, we only had 45 minutes' worth of meetings.  We were in the room by 9:30.  Dinner, change, that was about it.  We have a mature group so stuff like that shouldn't faze you too much.   
 Q.  Landry got to you once.  You got sacked one other time, apparently.  But looked like your offensive line kept your pretty clean, other than the design runs.  
JOHN WOLFORD: Right.   
 Q.  How much of a factor was that?  
JOHN WOLFORD: It was a huge factor.  I think going in, they have two great D-ends.  They've got a great D-line to get after the quarterback.  Any time your offensive line plays like that, it makes me more comfortable in the pocket, gives me time to see receivers down the field.   
They also did a great job running the football.  So when you do that, it makes it hard for a defense to get a pass rush.   
 Q.  I can't remember if you guys ended up putting points on the board this particular drive.  But driving down that way, facing like a third and six, and you scrambled out to the right.  Defender came up on you and you dumped off to Greg Dortch.  Do you remember that play?  Do you remember what you were seeing there?  How did that break down for you?  
JOHN WOLFORD: I think it was a zone read so I want to say I pulled it and the defender came off Greg.  So that's part of the play.  So any time -- you know, sometimes you got to shape that throw there.  It wasn't too hard.  Any time they're going to leave Greg in space, I'm going to try to get him the ball.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT