RICOH WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
August 2, 2018
Lydia Hall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
LYDIA HALL: That was the key.  And I played here in 2009 in the Open and knew when I finished that that is the major key here is just to keep out of those fairway bunkers, so I did that really well, created a lot of opportunities through one to the first kind of five or six holes, just wasn't holing anything, and then managed to get the pace to drop the first birdie and had the momentum and the reads and the pace.   
 Q.  You talked about having played here in before in 2009.  How important do you think that is to know the course, especially to try and avoid those?  
LYDIA HALL: Yeah, massively.  Obviously I haven't played here since then, and Monday qualifier and only had one practice round yesterday.  So we had to learn quite quickly yesterday and take a lot of notes and plot a good strategy.  So yeah, it's definitely advantage to have played the golf course in the past.  We had horrendous weather in 2009.  So it's nice that we've got a day today where it's just clear.  But yeah, it's really important to have seen the course a few times, I think.   
 Q.  And how are you feeling overall going into the rest of the week?  
LYDIA HALL: Yeah, I'm feeling good.  Just going to hit a few shots on the range just to finish up a couple of putts, but overall I'm pleased.  Just keep driving the way I am off the tee, and we shall see.   
 Q.  How have you been doing as of this year?  You've obviously played brilliant today.  Have you had any indicators that your form is coming in?  
LYDIA HALL: Yeah, I've played five events down in Australia, had a couple of Top 10s down there, and then South Africa finished tenth there.  So my form all year has kind of been there or thereabouts.  Played a few events on the Symetra Tour, had a Top 10 there.  So form's been good.  It's just been kind of having a day where I shot a couple over and taken myself out of it.  So yeah, form this year has probably been the best coming into the Open.  And yeah, looking forward to the next few days.   
 Q.  Anything in particular you've done different lately?  Have you changed coach?  
LYDIA HALL: No.  I've been with my coach, John Peters since I was 12.  So 18 years.  So we've got a really good relationship.  Spoke to him yesterday.  He gave me a really good key and to warm up good this morning, and that massively helped because I wasn't feeling great yesterday after my practice round and how I was striking the ball.  But did some work this morning with that key in mind, and yeah, it was a lot better this morning.   
 Q.  And coming through qualifying obviously gives you an enormous sort of confidence that you're ready to be here?  
LYDIA HALL: Yeah, definitely.  Obviously we played the Scottish Open last week.  So it was a great preparation coming into this week.  Brutal winds, and the course can beat you up a little bit, so it was nice to have -- I think we had the better side of the draw with regards to the weather.  So yeah, it was nice to have the tournament last week and then roll into kind of Monday qualifier and be here.  So it was nice to have the last two rounds in 16 hours.   
 Q.  Not tired at all?  
LYDIA HALL: No.  Not at all.  I'm just ready to go and keep going really, as many tournaments as I can play.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT