RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
September 13, 2012
Lydia Hall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You must be pleased?
LYDIA HALL:   Yeah, Leigh and I were both brought up on links golf, and I've played this my whole career.   It's been my base where I've learnt how to play golf.   So it's really nice to come up here, what, six weeks ago, and it was unbelievable.   It was such a struggle and it's in fantastic conditions.   The greens are amazing.   It was a good day.   We would have taken it at the start of the week, and it's just a grind more than anything.

Q.   You started off playing which golf course? 
LYDIA HALL:   My home course was Royal Porthcawl, so I was there for about seven years and I'm now attached to Southerndown Golf Club and I have been for the last two years and that's where I do all my practise and have done for the last two years, and that's links with 50‑mile‑an‑hour on top. 

Q.   Have you played here before in a practise round?
LYDIA HALL:   I played six weeks ago but prior to that, no, I haven't played it before. 

Q.   Can you just talk me through your birdies a little bit?
LYDIA HALL:   I had a birdie on 14.   We just tried to play middle of the fairway, middle of the green and then give myself opportunities from 20 feet.   So that's what we've done all day.   And I made four birdies and three bogeys, and all of them were outside 15 feet.   And so that's what our plan was to get chances from 20 feet and in.   I hit a good shot on 14 and it was a 3‑wood, 4‑iron in, so we had the breeze at about ten o'clock so I drew the 4‑iron in to‑‑ that was about 12 feet and holed the putt.   I think it was playing about 185 to the pin, so it was playing quite a long hole this morning.   It was cold and we had the breeze, as well.   And the pin was tucked in on the left as well.   There's really a lot of tricky pins out there, so you just have to take your chances when you can and be happy with par on a lot of the holes.

Q.   So you'd take that today?
LYDIA HALL:   Yes, definitely. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT