OMEGA DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 10, 2010
Lydia Hall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Still up there with a chance to win tomorrow. 
 LYDIA HALL: Yeah, it was a bit disappointing but I hung in there the back nine. Struggled on the front nine. A couple of mistakes here and there on putting. I struggled with the pace today. 
 But yeah, I'm glad I'm still in the same position I was in yesterday. So I haven't dropped any shots, and hopefully I can have a good day tomorrow and see what happens really.

 Q. This is like a bit out of the blue in a way. I know you've worked hard; what in particular have you been working on?
 LYDIA HALL: I've been working really, really hard with my coach, John Peters, on power, and he's also caddying this week. And also, John Bruno who, is personal trainer, been doing loads of golf-specific strength work with him, and a nutritionist also, and doing some NLP work with my personal trainer, as well. Been doing that for the last 10, 11 weeks. Yeah, everything's been helping obviously, so just been working hard.

 Q. Have you put much distance on your drives? 
 LYDIA HALL: Yeah, added at least ten, ten yards to my drive, and my other clubs, as well.

 Q. That's because of the training you've been doing?
 LYDIA HALL: Yeah, the strength work I've been doing and the positions that John has got me in, as well. I'm a lot more connected in my arms and in a better position at the top and using my lower body. Whereas, I was in a position at the top during the season and I was stuck, I couldn't use my lower body. So we have altered a few things and made the swing a lot stronger and now I have my lower body to help me get more distance.

 Q. Ten yards in ten weeks?
 LYDIA HALL: Yeah, definitely. 

 Q. You were saying that you were a little bit disappointed, you came into the lead, but you said your round -- it seemed like it almost -- to be honest at the midpoint I was thinking, we can write her off but next thing I look up you're back in it. It sounded like an up-and-down round a little bit. 
 LYDIA HALL: It was a little up-and-down. I had a fairly solid start, good drive, good second shot in the first, and then I pushed it into the water on the second, and cost me double bogey. 
 Then I hung in there for a couple of holes and I made another bogey, and 3-putted 9 with pace. And then I kind of from the 9th and 10th, kind of got my head back on and focused, and just focused on myself and one shot at a time. 

 Q. Obviously you're up against someone who is 16th-ranked player, won an the LPGA Tour; you've got a dangerous veteran who has won five tournaments. What's your mind-set going in, you haven't even had a Top-5 finish, so how do you -- do you give yourself a chance?
 LYDIA HALL: Absolutely. I'm just concentrating on myself. Nobody else -- I can't control what anybody else can do out there, only what I'm doing. So, yeah, there's huge names on the leaderboard, and I'm just concentrating on myself, one shot at a time. We'll see what happens. Anything can happen. 

 Q. What do you think for you after these few rounds, are some are the things you've done right and some of the things you're not happy with; what's the key to victory tomorrow?
 LYDIA HALL: Just got to get the pace right a bit better on the greens. Just a few more drives on the fairways, as well. I lost that a little bit, as well, today, but got it back towards the back nine. 
 Yeah, it's just basically the greens in regulations, the same old boring golf and just hole a few more putts. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT