OMEGA DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 9, 2010
Lydia Hall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. 5-under par through your first eight holes, what was the key to that success?  
 LYDIA HALL: I just played really solid. Tee-to-green was really, really good. Approach shots within 15 feet on the front nine. It just played really solid and the putts, got them rolling. I was really pleased.  
  
  Q. A couple bogeys around the turn. How proud of yourself to make some birdies on the end to really put the round back on track?  
 LYDIA HALL: I made a couple of mistakes on 9 and 10 with a 3-putt on 10 but I just refocussed and gained concentration and moved onto 11 and made a good putt. Just kept in there, really be to be honest.  
  
  Q. Any sense coming into this week that it was going to be a special one?  
 LYDIA HALL: I felt confident for the last -- I've been home for ten weeks. I didn't go to Asia, so I've been working really hard on fitness and with my coach, and, yeah, things have been going really, really good. I was looking forward to this week.  
  
  Q. Your best finish which everybody on Tour so far is sixth, do you fancy going a lot better this weekend?   
 LYDIA HALL: We just have to see how it goes this weekend. Just going to take one step at a time and one shot at a time and hopefully, who knows what can happen on the weekend.   
  
  Q. What would it mean to win this or a top two or three finish for your confidence or your game?  
 LYDIA HALL: It would be huge, but I'm not looking that far ahead to be honest. I'm going to go to the range and focus on a few things I'm not happy with today and then we are going to work on tomorrow. I'm just taking one step at a time and not even looking to Saturday at moment.  
  
  Q. On the range; what are things you can do to improve from today to yesterday?  
 LYDIA HALL: I just want to work on some putting. I pulled a couple of putts today and holding a few shots, as well. But I'm pleased today; really can't knock myself too much. Really happy the last couple of days, and yeah, I'm just looking forward to getting out there again tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT