NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: BRUINS v BLACKHAWKS
June 11, 2013
Patrick Sharp
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Patrick Sharp and Marian Hossa. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
PATRICK SHARP:   You feel like you can walk into any hockey locker room at any level and it's very similar.   You have the same kind of character guys.   I don't want to keep going back to 2010, but everybody 's with friends on and off the ice.   You can say that this year as well.   We've been together for two seasons. 
When there's change in your roster, it's tough to build that chemistry and camaraderie, so very similar. 

Q.   How important is it to be able to sleep in your own beds to recover? 
PATRICK SHARP:   It was nice.   It was an exciting game.   I had to apologize to Kaner for not celebrating too much.   I was too tired, couldn't use my energy. 
Had a couple days to relax, take care of some things off the ice.   So much the finals, you kind of compare it to a Super Bowl almost, taking care of tickets, family and friends comes in for the game. 
Get that stuff out of the way, just focus on hockey. 

Q.   (Question regarding the goalies.) 
PATRICK SHARP:   Seems like we ask that question at the start of every series.   The goalies are so important this time of year, whether it's the individual guy in the net making the saves or how well teams are playing defensively. 
You look at Boston, they don't give up a whole lot.   Doing what they did to the Penguins is impressive.   Rask is a big part of that.   They have a good team system, and they all commit to doing that. 

Q.   (Question regarding the lines.) 
PATRICK SHARP:   Yeah, that's Coach Q to a T.   He has a great feel for us as players, what we can bring to a particular game, upcoming game.   He's done a good job of scouting teams we're playing, looking at different matchups. 
I think all of us as players, we're comfortable playing with each other.   We're used to being thrown around in different combinations and we all trust that Joel picks the right ones. 

Q.   (Question regarding Chara.) 
PATRICK SHARP:   Yeah, there's always guys you focus on and key in on, address prior to the game.   A guy like Chara, he's so big, physical, skilled.   But the thing that impresses me the most about him is his work ethic, leadership skills. 
He's a guy that if you happen to get him one shift, he's going to come back and play even harder.   He's a tough guy to play against.   We know that going into the series.   We've seen guys like that every series. 

Q.   Were you surprised how they were able to shut down Pittsburgh' offense?
PATRICK SHARP:   You look at those two teams, they're pretty evenly matched.   Playoffs, it's so hard to score goals, put up big numbers, get to the net. 
Seems like the more importance that's put on a game, the more tight checking it is out there. 
To see the low scoring really wasn't a surprise.   They have two of the best players in the world.   Shows you how well Boston is playing right now. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT