NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: BLACKHAWKS v DUCKS
May 19, 2015
Bryan Bickell
Johnny Oduya
Patrick Sharp
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for the guys. 

Q.   Johnny, the Ducks are talking defensemen who might have to play some extra minutes, trying to finish checks as much as possible.   Do you expect a physical game from them?
JOHNNY ODUYA:   Well, I think that's the style they play.   A lot of teams try to put pressure on defensemen.   I don't expect any different if we would have eight defensemen or two. 
They're a good team.   I think they play kind of the same way.   I don't think they're going to change their game plan too much. 
We know they're physical.   But, you know, we're used to that, too.   We've been around, obviously seen tough forechecks before, too. 
We're worried about our game and what we're going to do to win. 

Q.   Bryan, are you dealing with some kind of injury?   Would you tell us if you were?
BRYAN BICKELL:   No.   I just got the wind knocked out of me.   I had a couple seconds to recover.   I'm sure everyone's got the wind knocked out of them before.   You just couldn't capture your breath. 
Went in the locker room a couple minutes to find it, came back out shortly later. 

Q.   Patrick, we talked yesterday about how this team is relaxed.   When do you turn to desperation? 
PATRICK SHARP:   I think every game, every night.   Every game's important.   When you look at the series, how it's playing out, 1‑0, 2‑0, 3‑0, doesn't matter, you try to win every night you go on the ice and play with that urgency, play with that desperation.   So we're disappointed with the outcome of Game 1.   We realize we have the opportunity to win tonight and we'll do our best to do that. 

Q.   Bryan, after Game1, Keith said you needed more of a net presence to create traffic in front of the net.   What do you think you might need to do to combat what the Ducks are doing defensively?
BRYAN BICKELL:   Like you said, get in front.   Just to keep our feet moving.   I think, you know, that first period, we had chances, some good looks.   I think we need to get that net presence to get those second and third opportunities. 
I think tonight our goal is to score first.   To score first in this game, it's crucial to have the lead and stick with the lead, play out the lead. 

Q.   Johnny, how was the pace in Game1?   Was it more open than you thought?   Less open than you thought? 
JOHNNY ODUYA:   I think they played pretty smart pace‑wise compared to the other series.   I think it's about the same.   I expect the pace to be a little bit higher today. 
I think the pace is going to go up in the series.   It's something that we like and we look forward to that.   It's fun to play those high‑intensity games, the highest level of playoff hockey. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks, guys. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT