MLB WORLD SERIES: NATIONALS VS ASTROS
October 22, 2019
Stephen Strasburg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You've talked about the importance of your routine for performance this year. What are some of the most important aspects of that, specifically anything that you found to be particularly impactful?  
STEPHEN STRASBURG: I think the biggest thing is not wavering from it. It's not trying to work on things over the course of the season and kind of just let the chips fall.   
 Q.  Is there anything you can learn from watching tonight's game or is most of that done just with your usual video scouting and whatnot?  
STEPHEN STRASBURG: Yeah, I think it's -- I always try and pay attention to every game. Try and put yourself out there in certain situations. You try and see if -- the homework that you've been doing matches up with what you see on the field.   
 Q.  With the change-up, is that such a feel thing that you know you have a feel for it in the bullpen beforehand or can you regain it over the course of a night?  
STEPHEN STRASBURG: Yeah, I mean, you try not to put too much stock in your bullpen. You try and treat it as a time to get loose and get mentally prepared. There's been many games where I've been lights out in the bullpen and not so much out there in the game. There's been many times where I didn't really have a feel for anything, go out there and all of a sudden it just comes to me.   
So you kind of just learn over the years that, again, it's a time to get loose. And when it's time to go out there and pitch, you go out there and compete with what you have.   
 Q.  AJ Hinch was just saying that if some of his players are nervous, he kind of wants them to embrace that because it's the World Series, it's not just any old regular game. Have you felt any heightened sense of adrenaline throughout these playoffs and do you feel like you might feel any different tomorrow?  
STEPHEN STRASBURG: Yeah, I think it's natural. It just shows that you care. And I think everybody in the clubhouse cares, and we care about each other. You're going to get the butterflies. Done it enough time that the more you try and settle in, the more it gets. And I think it's beneficial to just play wherever you're at. You know it's going to be a storm out there. You're going to weather it.   
 Q.  Jose Altuve is certainly unique. We hardly have ever seen, given his stature and what he's been able to do. Are you amazed facing him? What do you think when you see a guy like that who is not a big slugger but yet he's able to do a lot of damage?  
STEPHEN STRASBURG: Yeah, I mean, I've faced him a handful of times. I think for me the guys that I respect around the League is how they go about their business, and I think he's one of the best in that aspect. He's a true professional and I think he plays the game the right way.   
 Q.  I'm curious if you watched every game of the ALCS and do you chart pitches, take notes or just get a feel for anything?  
STEPHEN STRASBURG: Yeah, I watched a little bit. But, again, it's kind of beneficial that we share a Spring Training complex with them. You look at some things that they might be doing differently, but for the most part hitters don't really change too much over the years.   
 Q.  Anything special jump out at you about their lineup?  
STEPHEN STRASBURG: They've got a little bit of everything so I think it's just knowing how you want to attack certain guys and not just fall into the pattern of just throwing the same pitch to start guys off or finish guys and really just take it one pitch at a time and focus in on that.   
 Q.  You've pitched in some big games but perhaps nothing like you're going to see tomorrow night. How do you think you'll react and what's it going to be like for you when you take the mound in the World Series?  
STEPHEN STRASBURG: I don't know. I've never done it before. I know what I expect of myself. I'm going to hold true to that. That's all I can really control. My approach is everything and how I respond to whatever happens once the ball leaves my hand is just as important.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT