NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: NATIONALS VS CARDINALS
October 12, 2019
Stephen Strasburg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Nationals - 3, Cardinals - 1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  What's the day before a start like for you so, for example, we won't talk to you tomorrow, will you go to the park, what will you do the day before?  
STEPHEN STRASBURG: Yeah, I mean I have a pretty consistent routine the day before. So I'm just going to get on the plane tomorrow and go into the stadium and do that routine and treat it as such.   
 Q.  The starting pitchers say that they feed off one another, so I would imagine that you've got a lot to feed off of after these first two games. What's it like following those two performances in the first two games?  
STEPHEN STRASBURG: Yeah, I mean it was a lot of fun to watch and they went out there and they attacked guys and I think that's the biggest thing, that's one thing that you can't control and I'm going to continue to hopefully continue to do that.   
 Q.  Any thoughts on what was particularly -- you saw no-hitters taken into the 8th and into the 7th. What was particularly special about Aníbal and Max the last two days? What did they do that even you would say, that's really good?  
STEPHEN STRASBURG: Well, I think they controlled the tempo of the game very well. They had a lot of poise out there. Just seems like they were just playing catch out there. It's easier said than done, but they had everything working and they made it look really easy.   
 Q.  You've been a National your whole career, been there 10 years, what are your feelings on going back to Nationals Park up 2-0?  
STEPHEN STRASBURG: Yeah, I mean it's another game and I think we have done a pretty good job thus far of taking it one day at a time. I think it was kind of out of necessity back in May. So we're just going to stick to what we have been doing and keep leaving it all out there on the field.   
 Q.  Is this kind of the way that the organization has, not scripted it, but wanted it to go for so many years, like, dominant starting pitchers, giving you guys a chance, maybe an edge in every game you play? Is this kind of nice to see that fulfillment?  
STEPHEN STRASBURG: I mean it's tough to say. I think when you start the season everybody's going to have their picks out there. And then it's, one thing leads to another, but I think the biggest thing is is that we have really, over the last couple years, tried to address is the culture in the clubhouse. And Davey's been great, he's kind of let a lot of the guys that have been there a long time kind of take over the clubhouse. And the additions that we brought in this year has only made it so much better. We have a lot of fun playing together, we have a lot of fun winning together, and we just want to keep that going.   
 Q.  Culture's thrown around a lot in sports, especially the last few years. When you say the culture in the clubhouse as well, the vets are taking over, can you just elaborate on that, what that means to a lot of people who wouldn't know what that means?  
STEPHEN STRASBURG: Well I think it's, it's human nature for when things go wrong to maybe not want to look in the mirror and constantly say we don't really have that kind of feeling in the clubhouse. It's more so like picking each other up and sticking together, and we're just a tight knit group of guys, and we talk about family a lot and I would say that's pretty accurate.   
 Q.  Obviously you had a terrific year and you've been just as good if not even better in the postseason. What do you feel is working so well for you right now?  
STEPHEN STRASBURG: For me, it's trying to focus on what you can control, disregard what you cannot control. And that really comes down to executing a game plan, taking it one pitch at a time, and just trying to make as many good pitches as possible and letting the chips fall as they may.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT