NL DIVISION SERIES: NATIONALS VS DODGERS
October 4, 2019
Stephen Strasburg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Nationals - 4, Dodgers - 2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How did you feel and how normal did this start feel after throwing that relief session a couple days ago?  
STEPHEN STRASBURG: Yeah, it's playoff baseball and you kind of want to let at adrenaline take over and just go out there and compete.   
 Q.  Dave Roberts was talking about how effective your curveball was and said they probably didn't expect that many of them. Was it something that you felt you had pretty tightly on from the beginning today?  
STEPHEN STRASBURG: Yeah, I mean, I didn't execute some early and got away with them early on in the game. My command got better as the game went on.   
 Q.  Can you just talk about your performance overall and how you were able to dominate the Dodgers tonight with your pitching?  
STEPHEN STRASBURG: You try and do your homework and look at their weaknesses a little bit, but they're a pretty deep lineup so sometimes there's not many weaknesses there and you just got to go out there and pitch to your strengths.   
 Q.  I think they were saying your career lifetime ERA in the postseason is now 0.64. You've done really well in these big big moments, obviously just a couple nights ago in the Wild Card. What is it about the postseason when the pressure's the highest and the lights are the brightest that you're able to hone in and succeed so much?  
STEPHEN STRASBURG: I just learned over the years that pressure's a funny thing and I think it's something that you have complete control over. There's obviously a lot of expectations, there's a lot of excitement in games, but I really tried over the years to train my mind into thinking that every single game is just as important and just sticking to my approach. I mean, my approach is everything and the results are one thing and how I respond to those results is just as important.   
 Q.  Given your mound opponent we all weren't expecting too many runs to score tonight, so how big was it for you, how important that you got those three quick ones off Kershaw?  
STEPHEN STRASBURG: Yeah, whenever you face a guy like that the runs are going to be at a premium. So to get for the guys to go out there and give me a little cushion to work with was great. At the same time you can't really pitch to the scoreboard, I've done that before in the past and it hasn't really worked out well for me, so that was just another thing that I learned along the way.   
 Q.  Starting pitchers and probably all athletes are creatures of routine in some way. When you're asked to break out of your routine in something like this how much fun is it just to be able to have a challenge like this that's out of the ordinary?  
STEPHEN STRASBURG: Yeah, again, I think it's, I'm very routine-oriented and I would say my younger self would be a little bit alarmed by it, but now it's kind of, at this point in my career, it's, you're exactly right, it's just another challenge.   
 Q.  There was a very long top of the 7th inning. Did that contribute to you coming out after 6 or were you feeling like you were hitting a little bit of a wall from the relief outing?  
STEPHEN STRASBURG: I would say it was more a little bit of a wall from the relief outing. I think they had that number in mind and luckily I was able to go as long as I could, but I just kind of started to feel a little fatigued there. But again, that's I think more so from pitching in the Wild Card game.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT