LPGA KEB HANABANK CHAMPIONSHIP
October 20, 2012
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  SO YEON RYU:   My old habit is if I miss a shot I always hit a little hook.   Same thing happened on 15, 16, 17, and actually I'm really ashamed about 18, the third shot.   It was a shank.

Q.   What happened? 
SO YEON RYU:   It's like a cameraman came behind me so it's like I have to re‑routine or something, so I just hit it, but I think I lose concentration.   But it's like a great save, the fourth shot was pretty strong. 
Today it wasn't bad.   It wasn't bad.   Just I missed a couple of chip shots, but it's really great practice before the final round.   The final round is always really tough. 
I think I am ready to play, though, tomorrow.

Q.   There weren't that many low rounds today.   Was it just because of the wind? 
SO YEON RYU:   Well, especially‑‑ I always play really great at the front nine, but the front nine pin positions were really tough, and even today the weather is really like a little chilly and wind really strong.   But especially hole 6 is kind of a really tough hole, but pin position was so rough and green was into wind, and it was really hard to stop on the green.   I got a par there. 
Well, the problem today is weather is really chilly.

Q.   We're going into the final stretch of the season and you said the year has gone really well.   Where would a win in South Korea measure up with the U.S. Open win?
SO YEON RYU:   Well, after my U.S. Women's Open win, that's huge.   That's huge.   That's why a bit more Korean fans expect really huge level.   They really love to‑‑ if the Hana Bank winner is Korean, they will love it, because this is in Korea.   But sometimes it really makes me tough and crazy, but I want to enjoy this tough situation because I am professional.   I'm so happy to be playing in front of the Korean fans, and I want to say really thanks for the Korean fans. 
But today I'm really shamed because they took photos a lot, because they too much love the LPGA.   I pretty well understand it, but I'm really sorry about the fellow competitor.   So hopefully they're getting better.

Q.   How were your nerves before you went off today?
SO YEON RYU:   Oh, today is a lot better, a lot better.   Especially today playing with a Korean girl who's my really great friend.   She plays on KLPGA Tour and she's a really great player.   So a bit more relaxed. 
Yesterday was first round, that's why I was a bit more nervous.   But I played great, and then I was relieved.

Q.   Did you play in this event as a KLPGA member?
SO YEON RYU:   Uh‑huh, three times.

Q.   So you're comfortable with the course setup?
SO YEON RYU:   Yes.

Q.   Going into tomorrow you're in the hunt.   Do you think you'll be nervous tomorrow, too?
SO YEON RYU:   Well, you know, if you're leading the game it's really hard to sleep well.   But today I might be second, so I can sleep well, I just hope for tomorrow nice playing.

Q.   Any changes for tomorrow?
SO YEON RYU:   I just have to practice chipping.   That's it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT