LPGA KEB HANABANK CHAMPIONSHIP
October 19, 2012
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Just run through any crazy birdies, birdie putts, anything that stuck out. 
SO YEON RYU:   Well, today when I was just arriving at the putting green, the practice putting green, my leg was shaking, like I was nervous because this is the only LPGA tournament in Korea, so I'm in front of the Korean fans.   Maybe that was really‑‑ how can I say?   It was really tough for me.
So when I started the first hole, I was pretty worried about today's round because I felt like my mind was so busy, I couldn't concentrate on my ball. 
And the second hole, I just made a tap‑in birdie and then I'm relieved.   So I think the second birdie helped me a lot. 
Unfortunately on the 4th, my ball moved, so I was penalized one stroke, so that's why I was bogey.

Q.   What happened? 
SO YEON RYU:   I just addressed the ball, and I felt like my address felt really weird so I moved back, but still, ball rolled, so I got penalized.   So that's why I made a bogey, but otherwise bogey‑free without that one.   I was penalized. 
I think today my round was pretty great.   Actually the last round in Malaysia I was so tired, a lot of rain delays and things like that.   My swing was so bad, but really‑‑ well, my coach was there so he was helping me a lot, so now my swing feels pretty great.   So today I was hitting a couple of great shots so I could make a lot of birdies.

Q.   Are you familiar with this course?   Have you played here before?
SO YEON RYU:   Well, I was playing here three times as a KLPGA member, a lot of top 10 KLPGA members playing in this tournament, so the course feels really, really comfortable. 
This year I am not KLPGA member, I am LPGA member, so I feel like so proud of myself.

Q.   You knew coming into this there was going to be big crowds, you were going to be the top rookie?
SO YEON RYU:   Yeah.

Q.   You knew the expectations were going to be there?
SO YEON RYU:   Yeah, so especially last year I won the U.S. Women's Open, so the Korean fans' expectations, really huge, really high level.   Sometimes it makes me crazy, but I think I'm a really, really happy girl and I'm a lucky girl because I have a lot of Korean fans.

Q.   And who was your pastor that was there last night?   Obviously the Tour is a little heavy‑hearted with the loss of Doug.   How cool was that for you to have some part of home come and try to help the Tour and the girls?
SO YEON RYU:   I'm really happy that I could help them, that Doug's memory, the service, with my pastor.   This is my first year, so I really don't know Doug, but everybody is really sad about Doug.   I'm pretty sure he was a really great guy.   Even when I was first at the rookie hour, I spent time with him.   So I felt really, really sorry.   Yesterday my pastor prayed for Doug.   I felt so sad and I cried. 
Hopefully I think he's a really peaceful place.

Q.   What hours did you have to spend with him? 
SO YEON RYU:   Well, it's just seminar, but it's like six group of rookies, and then we just changed every table and we're setting up the rule thing, the media thing and everything.   So Doug explained about the pace of play and how can you study the rules.   He was really kind.   It was in the Kia Classic.

Q.   That was the first time you met him?
SO YEON RYU:   Yes.

Q.   And you knew from the get‑go he was to the point and loved his rules‑‑
SO YEON RYU:   Yeah.

Q.   But also very kind as everyone said?
SO YEON RYU:   Yeah, Mike Whan sent an email for us and he explained a little bit of thing of Doug.   I feel a bit more sorry. 

Q.   Anything going into tomorrow?   Obviously it's a three‑day tournament.   Do you like three days?
SO YEON RYU:   Well, I really like four days, but now I like three days because we're in every country.   Next week I will go to Taiwan.   But anyway, the three rounds, four rounds, it doesn't matter, I'm just so happy to play in Korea. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT