RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
September 15, 2012
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You finished at even par, are you happy with that?
SO YEON RYU:   Actually I started at the 10th tee and the 18th hole is my ninth hole, but I missed the second shot twice at the 18th hole, so I made a triple, a triple‑bogey, because I was out of the bunker twice. 
But I think a pretty great bounce back after that.   Normally if I missed it twice, my mental is totally crazy.   But I'm really focussed on my game again, and then I did a great job.   So kind happy about that. 

Q.   What happened on that hole?   Was the wind kicking up? 
SO YEON RYU:   First of all, I thought the wind just helping me, but actually it's really pretty strong left‑to‑right wind.   So I missed the right side twice.   And then I made a kind of birdie there but that's why I finished with a triple‑bogey there.   Even the first hole, I made a bogey again, so at that moment, I was 2‑over par, so I was so bad at the moment. 
But I made a lot of birdies later at the second, third, the fifth hole.   So it's pretty impressive.   I'm just proud of myself because after that, I bounced back well. 
I love the British golf. 

Q.   What makes you love it so much?
SO YEON RYU:   First of all I love the crowds, they are so gentle and supporting us a lot.   It was kind of eastern golf, the bunkers are so deep, especially hole 16, totally that's a birdie hole because we can try to get two on and make a birdie.   But my second shot was in bunker and then really hard to get out of the bunker. 
That's another funny thing, especially the greens condition were so perfect, I love 2‑putting it here.

Q.   You won in Korea last week and you're going to play 36 holes tomorrow.   How tired are you and do you have the energy to get through tomorrow?
SO YEON RYU:   I think I have really a lot of experience about that, especially in 2009 I won the Match Play and at the moment I played 45 holes.   So I think it's better than 45 holes.   I still want to enjoy the 36‑hole round, and everybody is in the same conditions.   Especially I like chocolate and I like Korean food, so my mom is cooking Korean food and I can buy chocolate so maybe it can given energy.

Q.   So you're eating lots of British chocolate?
SO YEON RYU:   I love it, all kind of chocolate, especially dark chocolate.   I'm a chocolate addict. 
After finished the scoring, I already had one chocolate and already having the energy.   I have a couple of tee shots practise, putting practise and maybe tomorrow it's getting a lot better.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT