RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
September 13, 2012
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   This is your first Rickie and you have not played much links golf and you said that it's a shock but it's a good shock?  
SO YEON RYU:   Yes, especially yesterday, the weather was so bad.   It was really strong wind and really huge rains, so I was shocked.   Oh, this is my first time playing the British Open and this is my first time visiting England, so everything is a first experience for me.   
But especially I'm staying with my coach, Ian Triggs, and last week I won the k LPGA tournament and I'm confident so that's why I'm playing really consistently.   And especially today, the weather was not bad.   This whole year, I played the Royal Melbourne, and Handa Australian Open, and it's similar to this one so it helped me a lot.  
   
 Q.   Did you make any adjustments to your game to compensate for the wind?   
SO YEON RYU:   Well, at the links course, we have to use the wind, so I don't need to compare to wind or whatever.   So I think today, I really trust my swing and trust my game and trust my decision.   That's the big thing.   
   
 Q.   Tell us about your journey here, because you said you played in Korea last week; when did you get here?   How are you feeling?   Are you battling jet‑lag?   
SO YEON RYU:   I arrive here on Monday really late, 11.00pm like, that but always home is really sweet home, and I have a lot of energy and I had really great Korean food.   So I am charged energy, so now I'm really happy, it's fine.   
   
 Q.   Can you take me through the round a little bit today and what's working well for you?   
SO YEON RYU:   I think today my putting was great and I made a lot of birdie putts and especially a lot of par putts.   The wind affect today the putting.   That one is really tough.   But my caddie helped me a lot and yesterday I worked with my coach, Ian Triggs, so I gave me really great advice so that helped me a lot.   
I think today my tee shot was really great.   You know, I think especially the links course, the tee shot was really important.   So I'm really happy with my game today and I just want to keep playing this type of golf.   
   
 Q.   In terms of the conditions, everybody kept talking about how the wind was really going to pick up this afternoon, but compared to the other days, was today one of the better days?  
SO YEON RYU:   Actually Tuesday and Wednesday was so bad, so today feels like a really great weather.   But you know, in Korea it was a little really strong wind, and a little different from this course.   This wind might not be a bad wind‑‑ I think today the weather was really great.   
   
 Q.   You said this is your first time playing links golf.   Are you surprised by your ability to go out and play so well?  
SO YEON RYU:   Yeah, especially yesterday I was so shocked.   I just can say, wow.   Even if the wind coming right‑to‑left or left‑to‑right, especially it's really hard, the side wind, so I practice a lot of low shots and especially I practice a lot of low fade shots.   
Today, I think today helped me a lot and maybe the weather is getting a little bit more badly.   So I have to keep practicing about the low shot.   
   
 Q.   Were you surprised today to do so well‑‑ it's your first time on links?   
SO YEON RYU:   Yes, it's a big surprise but today the weather is not bad so that's why today I played.  
   
 Q.   Is this your first time in Britain?   
SO YEON RYU:   Yes, this is my first, and this is my first time played in England.   So this type of golf, I never played this type of golf course.   But it's really tough but fun.   Always the first experience, really fun and a little tough but I want to enjoy this type of golf course.  
   
 Q.   Were you in many bunkers?   
SO YEON RYU:   I think today just one.   I think that's why today I played well.   
   
 Q.   You talked about your win last week at the KLPGA and you won about a month ago on the LPGA; how great is your confidence right now?   
SO YEON RYU:   Especially last week was so tough because that's my main sponsor hosted the tournament, so a lot of pressure on me.   But anyway, I won the tournament, so I felt like really proud of myself.   
So now I can a little bit more enjoy the tournament because I already won twice, so feels comfortable, and a lot of people trust me.   So I feel like oh maybe if I just enjoy the tournament, a lot of my friends enjoy seeing my playing.   So this day I really tried to enjoy the tournament, and last week, I won, I got a lot of confidence.  
   
 Q.   After you won The Open, did you feel under a lot of pressure?  
SO YEON RYU:   Absolutely.   That's a huge major tournament, so everybody said, that's‑‑ you won the major tournament, but why you can't win any regular tournament.   
Well, it's really hard to answer that question.   But that's a huge one.   
   
 Q.   Is it a relief to have won again on the LPGA?   
SO YEON RYU:   Yeah, after I won the Toledo championship, I was a little more relieved and that helped me a lot.   How can I say, even if when I was winning the U.S. Women's Open, a lot of people said it might be just one tournament or just a dark horse like that.   
But after I won the Toledo championship, I broke about that, so‑‑ I want another major trophy, but I know it's a really tough one, and today is just the first day and we have three days, so I just have to concentrate.   
   
 Q.   How old are you?   
SO YEON RYU:   I'm 22.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT