SAFEWAY CLASSIC PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
August 18, 2012
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   We'd like to welcome So Yeon Ryu to the interview room.   Congratulations, another great round out there today following up on your victory from last week.   Putting together two more solid rounds.   What's been the key to you carrying on that success from last week into this week?   
SO YEON RYU:   I think it's really hard to keep focusing on my golf after my winning.   But how I can say?   Last week the tournament is already finished, so I'm just thinking about this week.   That's why I played well, I think.   And especially today I played really well.   The front nine I shot 5‑under on the front nine, but unfortunately the back nine I made one bogey, and I missed a lot of birdie putts.   So today I finished at 4‑under.   
I think my problem is I just missed a couple of utility shots.   So I have to practice some of my utility and practice some putts.   I'm ready to sink some putts tomorrow.   
THE MODERATOR:   The weather out there was quite different from what we had yesterday.   We went from 100 ° to 60‑something today and overcast.   How much did that change how the golf course is playing?   
SO YEON RYU:   I think this is the LPGA, so I totally understand it.   Yesterday and today the weather was a really big difference, especially the distance control was a little bit too hard.   
Even hole 9, yesterday I hit the driver and the 24‑degree utility, but today I hit driver and 3‑wood and it was still a little short.   
It's quite a big, different temperature, so hard to keep warm my body.   I think it's just a distance issue.   
THE MODERATOR:   I know you and Mika played well yesterday and once again you both put together a solid round today.   Is it one of those things where when one of your playing partners is playing well, you feed off of that and both start playing well?   
SO YEON RYU:   Actually, the last few years I didn't play with Mika.   But yesterday and today I played with Mika.   Still she's a really great putter and she hits so straight.   She never misses the right or left side.   It's really exciting to play with Mika.   It's really great competition.   I think tomorrow I'll have the chance to play with Mika again, but I just want to really enjoy with Mika.  
THE MODERATOR:   You talked about with her consistency and how great she's been up there.   She's very close to winning over the past few months.   She seems to be in the Top 10 every week.   What is it that impresses you about her golf game?   
SO YEON RYU:   I think she's ready to make a win.   But I think the problem is the golf is a mental game.   So I think the final round gave a lot of pressure for her, but I think she can make it pretty soon.   But I want to make another win after this week.   So I want to make a great competition with her.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
SO YEON RYU:   I'm just thinking about each hole.   Not thinking about the whole round or something like that.   Especially my iron shots,   distance control is really great, so I made a lot of birdie chances.   
But today I just was trouble a little bit with the green speed.   Actually, last week, the green speed was not that fast, but this week the green speed is really, really fast.   And today the weather is really cool, so it feels a little faster than yesterday.   The key is to control the speed on the green.   
Anyway, I think my good thing is distance control on my iron shots.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
SO YEON RYU:   Hopefully.   I don't know another low round, but the more important thing is just focusing on my game.   I don't want to think about the (Indiscernible).   It's not great, actually.   I already really know about that, so I just want to keep thinking about each hole and each shot.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT