SAFEWAY CLASSIC PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
August 17, 2012
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Great round, 5‑under par today.   I know not the finish you would have wanted there, but overall, what was really working well for you?
SO YEON RYU:   Actually, after winning and then it's really hard to concentrate on the game again, but I think today I played really well.   But anyway, the front nine, I really struggled with the tee shots. 
But hole 9 I made the eagle, and then maybe my condition was getting better, getting better.   I think that hole 9 might be my lucky hole, actually.   Even in the last tournament I made a birdie at hole 9 and then I started out really great and then today again. 
Today the weather is so hot, so actually before I started the round, I was thinking about I'll just calm down, calm down.   But I think really first of all I had too much calmed down at the first few holes.   Then I started to talk with my caddie, and then the conditions were getting better.   I really liked my iron shots these days.   So I really am happy with my iron shots.

Q.   You and Mika were both playing well.   Do you feed off people when you're playing in a group with someone who is making birdies like you are? 
SO YEON RYU:   It actually feels like match play.   We made a lot of birdies at the same time.   Especially Mika and I played a lot before when I was in the national team, and Mika with the Japan National Team.   So it felt like when we were amateurs.   So it was really, really great play today.

Q.   Overall, it's a shorter event than most.   It's only 54 holes.   Got off to a good start.   Is that a huge key with only two rounds left? 
SO YEON RYU:   Yes, absolutely.   Actually, in Korea, we have a lot of three‑round tournaments, but the LPGA has a lot of four rounds.   It's really tough for me.   It's really tough physically and absolutely mentally.   Especially after the three round tournament, the first round is really, really important.   I think today we did great.   I just want to keep focused on my putting.   But the grass is really hard to putting in the afternoon.   So I just want to keep working at the putting. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT