JAMIE FARR TOLEDO CLASSIC PRESENTED BY KROGER, OWENS CORNING AND O-I
August 11, 2012
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   I'd like to welcome So Yeon Ryu to the interview room.   Can you talk me through your round today.   
SO YEON RYU:   I think today is really good patience out there.   The front nine my putt wasn't great, but after finish the front nine, actually the back nine part was really great, so I really happy with that.   
Last few tournaments I pretty struggling with my putting, but now it's really great.   I hope tomorrow my putt working really great again.   
THE MODERATOR:   You said yesterday you have your putter that you used at the U.S. Open back in your bag.   Talk about that a little bit.   
SO YEON RYU:   Actually, how can I say?   It feels like if I see my putter, just feels like I can make the putt.   I think the confidence really important at the putting, so that's why this week my putting's really great.   
And I think the green is really soft now, so it's really easy to make the birdie chance.   Everybody same condition.   I think everybody really know about this golf course.   So I think putt is really important key, yeah.   
THE MODERATOR:   A win tomorrow would make you the first rookie to win this year.   What would that mean to you?   
SO YEON RYU:   Actually, after U.S. Women's Open I don't have any win.   I really waiting my next winning.   I want to make win tomorrow, yeah.   
THE MODERATOR:   Questions.   
   
 Q.   The Koreans are all very close off the course.   When you talk, do you think, This would be fun if all of us decided this tournament?   Do you ever talk about something like that?   
SO YEON RYU:   Actually, lots of Koreans playing the LPGA Tour.   I think pretty help each other.   If some Koreans have a winning chance, everybody waiting on the 18th green, everybody concongrat to the winner.   So I think our relationship is pretty great.   
   
 Q.   If you look at the four players tied at 11‑under, there's not a score higher than 69 or lower than 66.   I heard the word 'consistency' over and over.   Is that really what separates you and your fellow Korean players, just playing consistent?   
SO YEON RYU:   I think, yeah, pretty well.   But sometimes someone is crazy and hit a low score, a 61, 62, like that.   Truly Paula hit 61 at this golf course, so maybe tomorrow some players have a chance.   I hope it's me (laughter).   
   
 Q.   We know Se Ri was a big influence.   Can you put a finger on what makes the Korean women so strong in golf at this point, other than just being consistent?   From a young age, how do you get going so early?   
SO YEON RYU:   It's really tough question.   
Uhm, I think first the Korean practice a lot.   After Se Ri win the U.S. Women's Open, Se Ri explain how she could success at the LPGA Tour, she said she practice so much.   
Actually the practice environment here in the LPGA is really great.   In Korea, the practice environment, it's a little not great, it's a little bad.   If we move to America, we can practice a lot.   The environment is really great.   
The driving range is actually not real grass, it's a plastic grass, something like that.   So it feels like a little different.   But here in America, everything is same condition as golf course.   I think that's why Koreans getting improved.   
   
 Q.   Do you find yourself playing conservative more not to make mistakes?   If so, is Sunday a day where you just have to let that go and go for it if you want to win?   What is your perspective on conservative versus taking a chance?  
SO YEON RYU:   I think patience is most important thing.   If sometimes I really want to make a win, I tend to concentration my game.   I just thinking about the winning compared to some other players.   So I think just keep patience and just thinking about my game, not other player's game, don't compare to other players, just thinking about my game.   I think that's a really important key, yeah.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you.   
SO YEON RYU:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT