KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 30, 2017
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Yesterday you played late; today you played early.  A quick turnaround but a different golf course than what you saw yesterday.  
SO YEON RYU: Yeah, for sure because last night we got a lot of rain, so the greens are soaking up.  So it's been easier to get close to the pin.  But at the same time, this morning, this wind dies down and it's pretty calm this morning.  I think compared to yesterday, this morning was much easier condition.   
 Q.  Let's go through some of the highlights, especially on the back nine.  We'll start on 13.  This is your second shot.  What did you see here from the fairway?  
SO YEON RYU: It was a little strong into, so I hit it like 120 shot.  It was like 114 to the pin but I hit it like low 120 shot.  Like I said, greens a bit soft right now, so I was able to make it.   
 Q.  Now your second at 18 to try to close out your second round in style and you do so here?  
SO YEON RYU: It was 200 yards to the front of the green, and then my 5-wood is perfectly flying 200 and it landed about 200.  There was about maybe a ten foot eagle putt, but the downslope was really, really strong.  To be honest, I didn't think about make this putt or not.  I just think about, okay, let's make a good speed, let's make a good speed.  Then that putt was good enough to make it.  It was really great to finish eagle.   
 Q.  First time you're playing as the world's No. 1 player, and you also won a major championship earlier this year.  How much of a responsibility do you feel now to play excellent golf like you did today, now that you've reached such lofty heights?  
SO YEON RYU: Well, I finally achieved my dream and I'm living the dream, so I'm kind of overwhelmed these days.  Every time I'm kind of like hyper, I'm like so happy to come out to the golf course.  I just try to be the same person, no matter if I'm No. 1 or No. 100, I'm still the same person.  My goal is enjoy this game.  That's the reason why I play golf.   
I just try not to think about my responsibilities and just think about how I'm going to play.   
 Q.  Can you sum up your day for us?  
SO YEON RYU: Today I made a bogey at No. 3 or 4, and then to be honest, front nine, nothing was great.  Nothing was bad.  It was just one of the days.   
I just stayed really patient, and then I was able to make two birdies in a row at the back nine.  After that, it feels like more comfortable hitting the shot and I was able to make a lot of birdie chances.  But still, I couldn't make everything, but I finished with an eagle at the last, so I think it was a really great way to finish.   
 Q.  Are you surprised to be so close to the lead at the end of your round?  
SO YEON RYU: Yeah, if I'm thinking about my front nine.  I thought my game was kind of like rusty, but right now, I'm only two shots back to the leaders.  So yeah, I'm really happy with my position right now.   
 Q.  What was it like, the No. 1 ceremony to start this tournament?  
SO YEON RYU: Yeah, actually, you know what, the ceremony makes me more nervous, more nervous to play the tournament.  Yesterday was my first day playing a tournament as No. 1.  I thought, you know, it's a lot of responsibility, and plus the ceremony just gave me a lot of pressure.  Maybe like after two or three holes, I finally got relaxed a bit more and then I just played as just normal.   
 Q.  How is your confidence level now compared to maybe two years ago before you went through the swing changes and everything.  
SO YEON RYU: About my swing, I feel 100 percent comfortable with it.  Especially like when I have a missed shot, I know how to fix it.  So I think it's really important to have good knowledge about my golf swing.  It's really important to have understanding about my golf swing.  Right now, I feel like I 100 percent know about my golf swing, so I'm really comfortable with my long game.   
These days I'm really better with putting.  Especially when I putt really great, I always get close to a win.  Also last week, I putted really great and I shot 10-under.  So I think after that performance, I feel more comfortable putting, as well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT