JAMIE FARR TOLEDO CLASSIC PRESENTED BY KROGER, OWENS CORNING AND O-I
August 10, 2012
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   I'd like to welcome So Yeon Ryu into the interview room.   Great round today.   You're in contention yet again.   Talk about what went well for you. 
SO YEON RYU:   Yeah, actually the weather is a little cold today.   It feels like ball going not pretty much far.   Yesterday my ball goes really farther.   Especially my iron goes really far. 
So today it's a little hard to control the distance.   But now I change my putter actually, what I used at the U.S. Women's Open the last year.   I think the putting was really great.   A lot of fans really great. 
So today round was really, really happy. 
THE MODERATOR:   You won the U.S. Open last year, so you're accustomed to being in this position.   What are your thoughts going into the weekend? 
SO YEON RYU:   Actually, this is my rookie year, but everybody ask, Are you rookie?   I already won the U.S. Women's Open.   So everybody thought I'm not rookie, but actually this is my rookie year. 
So sometimes it's really hard because I don't know every tournament course, so I have to wake up early and I have to check the course.   So it's a little tough. 
Especially the people, the expectation is a little bit more high because I already won the major tournament.   Of course I want to win the tournament as soon as possible. 
THE MODERATOR:   Questions. 

Q.   Talk about today's round versus yesterday.   Were you just consistent both days or did it play a lot differently today? 
SO YEON RYU:   I think it's pretty similar.   But today iron shot was a little not great.   Actually the yesterday iron was really great.   I had a lots of birdie chance.   But today I missed quite a lot of greens.   That a little different, but the green condition or fairway condition is really similar. 

Q.   If you look at the leaderboard right now, six South Korean players in the top nine.   Can you speak to that?   Why so dominant?
SO YEON RYU:   Actually, I don't know.   I just heard the Jamie Farr have lots of Korean winners, Se Ri Park, Na Yeon Choi, Eunjung Yi.   I think the Koreans are a lot more comfortable at this course.   I think the golf course shape is really pretty similar to Korean golf course. 
How?   I don't know.   I just following little bit older player steps now. 

Q.   In general, is it a tribute to the work ethic of you and your fellow South Korean players?   Do you out‑work everybody?
SO YEON RYU:   Everybody help a lot each other.   Especially I'm the rookie, I don't know the LPGA system or a lot of things.   A lot of older player taught me.   Especially I don't know the location near the golf course, kind of Korean restaurant or something like that.   But the older Koreans gave me a lot of information. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you. 
SO YEON RYU:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT