U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 8, 2012
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What did you think about after you came off your final round here today?
SO YEON RYU:   Actually I was a little bit disappointed in myself.   I finished double bogey at 18.   Actually 18 hole was pretty inspiring hole for me because of Se Ri, but my makeup is a little bad, so I'm a little sad now.
But it's pretty good experience.   How can I say?   The course shape is beautiful this week and it's really absolutely tough, though, and especially green is really tough.   But today I hit a lot of great shots, but I missed a lot of putts, so I have to keep a lot of practice with the putting.   But I learned a lot of things, and thanks for Kohler and Wisconsin, a lot of Chicago fans.

Q.   And if you can't defend your U. S. Open Championship, is it fitting that another South Korean, two of them right now, are battling for that title?
SO YEON RYU:   Yeah, in 1998 Se Ri won the U. S. Open here.   So I wish another Korean would win again.   And actually, before my goal was to defend my title, but I couldn't.   But I'm still happy because it feels a little sad.   But still tied 15 is great result for me actually. 
This week is pretty tough for me, pretty ‑‑ a lot of tension for me.   Sometimes I couldn't control myself, but I think I learn a lot of things.

Q.   As a defending champion, is that just a lot of pressure coming into an event like this?
SO YEON RYU:   Yeah, I think always defending champion is really tough, though.   But I think I'm just rookie on the LPGA Tour, so I think this moment I should learn a lot of things.   So it's just good studying for me. 

Q.   If they hold on and win, either Amy or Na Yeon, this would be four U. S. Opens in the last five years for a South Korean golfer.   But would this one have more significance because it's here at this course?
SO YEON RYU:   Yes.   Absolutely.   So that's why I really want to defend my title again.   Actually, Se Ri is our hero, and even the Korean golf story not started here, but my generation feels like our golf history started here, especially I play with Se Ri again 14 years later, and I really, really hope Korean girls win again.

Q.   How is this golf course viewed back home?   Do they see it as kind of a place that's almost sacred, I guess?
SO YEON RYU:   How can I say?   Actually the fairways not narrow, were still pretty wide, but feels like really afraid of it.   I don't know why, but especially her 18, before that's actually almost one month ago I went here.   That's when it's just bunker, but now it fill it up.   It feels like a huge difference.
And I think even iron play is really important this week.   Actually my iron play was pretty great this week, but I was a little bit disappointed in my putter, putting.   But anyway, the sacred is just hit straight at the second shot.

Q.   What about the 18th hole makes it such a challenge, because I've been hearing players and seeing the numbers, that's one of the harder holes.   What about that hole makes it so hard?
SO YEON RYU:   Actually the hole, the fairway is right‑to‑left, even the green slope is right‑to‑left, so ball kicks to the left.   So left side is water hazard.   Even around the green the landing spot is really narrow.   So that's why it's tough.

Q.   Do you want to watch the rest of the tournament?   What do you do now?   Do you want to watch how it ends?
SO YEON RYU:   First I should be packing.   I'm going to go home and rest, but I want to keep focusing on resort.   It's on mobile app. Or whatever.   I'm pretty sure Korean win again. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT