U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 6, 2012
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Tell me about your round today.   What stood out for you?
SO YEON RYU:   The first today temperature was perfect, a lot better than yesterday, and actually today my shot was a lot better than yesterday, so I felt slightly more comfortable, but hole 13 I missed my 3‑wood to the right side and then my ball was in the hazard, and I got a double bogey there.   So my mind is a little busy and my anxiety level is a little going high, but after ‑‑ I mean the 13 hole, I got a birdie, and then I really tried to keep trust myself and then concentration level is getting a little high.   But the one thing today, the round is a little bit slower, the pace of play is a little slow.   So physically it was a little tough.

Q.   What did you learn from yesterday's round that you were able to apply to today?
SO YEON RYU:   Actually I am a defending champion, so I think, how can I say?   I really want to play well this year because I want to defend my title and I am defending champion, so everybody focus on me.   So I think I was a little rushed.   So I just ‑‑ today I just keep walking a little bit slowly, and one more thing, and kind of that.   So today my mind is pretty calm.

Q.   Did you think you were ‑‑ were you focusing on your putting or your ball striking or was there anything in particular or your whole game?
SO YEON RYU:   Actually, definitely it's my whole game, but I think this course is second shot is pretty important, so I really focus on my iron shot, and I think today my caddie was a little tired because we need to think about exactly how can we play this course and especially management is really important.   So anyway my iron shot is really important.

Q.   And I know when you were here on media day there was no water on 18?
SO YEON RYU:   Yeah.

Q.   In the practice round did you go in and try to make the shot?
SO YEON RYU:   Yes.   That's right.   Now you guys fill it up and truly yesterday I hit the left and then I got a water hazard and I made a bogey.   But today my driver shot is pretty great, but actually the bunker and water hazard is totally big difference.   It feels like a little bit afraid of it.   But I hope my driver shot is getting better and better and hit just straight shot.

Q.   In the practice round did you take your socks off and go in it?
SO YEON RYU:   Yes.   I just followed say re's shot.   Actually, I think the hill is pretty steep.   I think it's a really, really tough shot, but she did really great.   So how can I say?   It just ‑‑ I can't believe it. 
Even the hill is really steep, so I think the ball couldn't stop at the hill, but anyway, ball stop at the hill and she hit that shot and she made a win.   So I think just the 18 hole is pretty impressive hole for me. 

Q.   Thank you so much?
SO YEON RYU:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT