HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
February 23, 2012
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   That was a fabulous start, 68 the first round.   
SO YEON RYU:   Yeah, it's really nice first round because my shots were really great today and I made a couple really short putts, but that's okay, still really fabulous play.   And actually a little nervous today, too.   I played with Cristie Kerr and I.K. Kim, and they are really high‑ranked and the best players.   I think it's a really exciting game, yeah.   
   
 Q.   Now you didn't play last week in Thailand but you played the previous two weeks in Australia and one was an LET event and the first of the LPGA events.   You almost won the Australian Masters and then you got in a six‑way playoff in the Australian Open.   What did that do, because both of those events could have been yours and I was really interested to see the effect that that had on you?  
SO YEON RYU:   I think the Masters, the final round, it made me totally nervous so I couldn't play just on my game.   And I think the fourth round‑‑ I think the first step for me, but the last putt‑‑ but last week I was just staying with Ian Triggs, my coach, he said sometimes my concentration is low level.   So last week I practised a lot of shape shots and practised some visualisation.   
   
 Q.   So not playing last week, you have two tournaments under your belt but you actually come in here a little fresh, so you could be a little sneaky dark horse?  
SO YEON RYU:   Really threatening name (laughing).   You know, always the LPGA tournaments, I'm really nervous and I'm still a rookie.   For a rookie, I play with really high‑ranked players, it's really tough.   But I think the LPGA tournaments, I really enjoy.   
   
 Q.   You are in sensational form, current U.S. Open Champion, you must be so excited for your first full season on the LPGA?  
SO YEON RYU:   Sure.   The last four years I played on the K‑LPGA, and always, it is Cristie Kerr, Se Ri Pak, everybody just looks like a god, they are playing really well.   But now I am playing in an LPGA tournament, and I think I can't believe it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT