U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 11, 2011
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Can you tell us what you're feeling right now?  
 SO YEON RYU: Okay, I telling again. I just -- in KLPGA I didn't won the major tournament, but now I really, really big major, the U.S. Women's Open, I win this tournament, so I really, I so happy. I couldn't -- I can't believe it.   
 When I was young, Se Ri Pak and Cristie Kerr, a lot of LPGA player is my hero. But now just I play with them and then I won the tournament, so it is really happy, yeah.   
  
  Q. How much of an advantage was it for you having played 16, 17, 18 before playing in the playoff?  
 SO YEON RYU: It's same pin position and same teeing ground. It is really good for me. And then the whole par-5 is same distance the third shot, so I can make a birdie. It is really good for me, yeah.  
  
  Q. When you made that final putt and Se Ri came out with the champagne and celebrated with you, how great of an experience was that for you to have her celebrate with you?  
 SO YEON RYU: It is really special, because Se Ri is Korean hero. When I was start golf, Se Ri won the U.S. Women's Open, so it is really special for me.  
  
  Q. This is the first time they've used the three-hole playoff. Used to be 18. Did you realize it was gonna be three holes before it started?  
 SO YEON RYU: Before I realize maybe playoff is 18 hole, but it's changed the rule to just three hole.  
 Actually, I didn't have more energy, so it's...   
  
  Q. So you were glad?  
 SO YEON RYU: Yes, I'm glad. Yeah, yeah.  
  
  Q. Did you know ahead of time it was three holes? Because Seo said she didn't realize that till last night.   
 SO YEON RYU: Yes, I know. I knew, yeah.   
  
  Q. You had beaten her before in a three-hole playoff; is that right?  
 SO YEON RYU: Yeah, yeah.   
  
  Q. Did that give you any, you know, more confidence? Were you more comfortable about it?  
 SO YEON RYU: Yeah, it's more comfortable because it's same holes. Caddie just told me, Just calm down and smile. Before my goal is just top 10. This playoff situation is really good for me and it's really happy, so I just enjoying my play, yeah.  
  
  Q. What was going through your mind as you were walking up 18 to the last hole in the playoff? What was going through your mind?  
 SO YEON RYU: Maybe two years ago in China me and Hee Kyung going to playoff the three hole, and maybe 2009 Hee Kyung's prize money was first and I'm second, so I really want to win.  
 So feels happy, and a little bit sorry about that, yeah.   
  
  Q. What about the putt you made to get into the playoff? It was about a four-, five-footer. How nerve racking is that?   
 SO YEON RYU: In 18 hole? In morning?   
  
  Q. Yeah.   
 SO YEON RYU: Just I pray for God, and then I just hit it. I don't know. Maybe that moment I erase it.   
  
  Q. Is orange your new favorite color?  
 SO YEON RYU: Yeah, it's my company color. Yeah, sponsor company color.  
  
  Q. What was the second shot you hit on 18? What was the club and yardage in the morning?  
 SO YEON RYU: In the morning I hit 6-iron, and playoff I hit 5-iron. It's just five meters, but a little bit into breeze.  
  
  Q. You hit the shot this morning, because that was the big shot that put you into position for the birdie. Did you know when you hit it you were in pretty good shape?  
 SO YEON RYU: Well, hole 17 Hee Kyung bogey and I made a birdie, so I have a little gap, just two stroke. So I think just par. If I am on the green, just two-putt.  
  
  Q. The first one in the morning, the one that finished the playoff, just when you hit that second shot on 18, when you had to birdie to force a playoff, when you hit that shot, did you know you had put it where you needed to put it?  
 SO YEON RYU: Yeah, I hit the second shot I feel just one more chance -- just no more chance because it's last hole, so I really hard concentration the ball.  
 So I can shape the little fade shot, so I made a birdie.  
  
  Q. Do you have a spot picked out in your house for your new trophy?  
 SO YEON RYU: Maybe few months I just staying on my bed. (Laughter.)  
  
  Q. Are you and Hee Kyung good friends?  
 SO YEON RYU: Yeah, she is older than me, but Hee Kyung young is really great player. In Korea she's really star player. Hee Kyung and Hee Kyung's parents is really great person. I really love the Hee Kyung, so a little bit sorry about that.   
 But I really want a trophy, so that's it.   
  
  Q. Is this a big event for South Korea having two south Korean golfers in a playoff in the biggest event in golf?   
 SO YEON RYU: Yeah, sure. Maybe now Korea is night, but everybody send me text just cheer up. We are looking for you. And so, uh-huh.  
  
  Q. You had to wait eight minutes on the green in the morning for that putt. How tough was that to have such a long wait for that last putt?  
 SO YEON RYU: Actually, I just singing because I must comfortable in my mind. If I keep thinking about that birdie putt, my mind is a little bit nervous and a little bit scared about that, so I just singing in my heart. Yeah.   
  
  Q. What were you singing?  
 SO YEON RYU: Ah, just Korean song. Yeah, secret. (Laughter.)  
  
  Q. Is it a relief to have the trophy in your hands after all you went through this whole weekend with the delays and stuff?  
 SO YEON RYU: I think it just lucky for me because yesterday is really hard. But the USGA stop the tournament, so this morning weather is really fantastic. I think this tournament is lot of lucks for me. Now I'm still unbelievable. (Smiling).  
  
  Q. You must like playoffs. Why are you so good in playoffs?   
 SO YEON RYU: In 2009 it just match play, but I play nine-hole playoff. I won the tournament. So if I had the playoff, I had a lot of confidence.   
  
  Q. So are you a fashion designer; is that correct? You said you had your own clothing line when you were asked about the orange. No?   
 SO YEON RYU: No, but I hope so. You like it these clothes? (Smiling).  
  
  Q. Did you design those?  
 SO YEON RYU: Yeah, just Korea made this one.  
  
  Q. You're still in school, right?   
 SO YEON RYU: Yeah.  
  
  Q. What's the name?  
 SO YEON RYU: Yonsei University.  
  
  Q. Are you almost finished?  
 SO YEON RYU: Junior, and I practice physical education.   
  
  Q. What's your plan after you graduate? Do you plan to play more over here, or...   
 SO YEON RYU: Before my plan is if I graduate the university I want to try to qualifying the school, but now is different situation. So I can't decide it, not yet.   
  
  Q. You'll re-evaluate?  
 SO YEON RYU: Yeah.  
  
  Q. Have you ever played this through your mind, winning a USGA event, an Open?  
 SO YEON RYU: (In Korean.)  
  
  Q. What's it gonna be like when you go back to Korea? How will you be received?  
 SO YEON RYU: First, my father is really happy about that. Now my younger sister study in Pennsylvania, so I really met -- I really want to meeting her, but I can't meeting my younger sister. It's just like calling for my younger sister, maybe she tell me, Great job; is fantastic.   
 So I just looking forward meeting my family. And then a lot of sponsor and my friends maybe congratulations for me, uh-huh.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT