KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 29, 2017
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You looked a little nervous this morning as you were standing on 1.  How did it feel hitting the first shot as world No. 1, and how did you then settle into the round?  
SO YEON RYU: Yeah, for sure, I never really become a No. 1 before.  I've never really been like a No. 1 before.  This is my first day to play a golf tournament as No. 1.  So that was definitely a lot of pressure, especially after the presentation at the first hole.   
But I talked to my psychologist yesterday and she told me that even though you have a new circumstance, you're still the same person.  You're still So Yeon Ryu.  No matter what situations change or circumstances change, you're just you.  So I keep talking myself, that no matter what, I'm So Yeon Ryu and just stick to my plan.  That's how I handle.   
 Q.  Who is your psychologist?  
SO YEON RYU: Her name is Soo Kyung Cho.  She is in Korea.   
 Q.  What was the presentation like on the first tee?  
SO YEON RYU: It was weird, because like before, every time when I saw someone's caddie wearing that green bib, I thought that was like a really cool thing, like, wow, that's really cool.  One day I want to have that bib for my caddie, as well.   
Finally, dreams come true, and Tom wore that bib.  I asked him, "Does it really feel like comfortable and special for you?"   
He was like, "Yeah, kind of weird, but it's good."   
Yeah, even though we were feeling kind of like weird, but we were really happy.   
 Q.  Inbee said yesterday when she was No. 1, one of the pressures that she felt was that she felt like every round, she had to play like a No. 1 player and it took her awhile to realize she didn't have to do that.  Did you feel any of that?  
SO YEON RYU: Actually I saw that interview.  So after I saw it, I was like, that's a good lesson.  I'd better not try to play well.  Just try to be myself.  So I learned -- as I said, I learned a lot of things from Inbee.   
 Q.  What did you think about the conditions today?  The wind died down a little bit.  
SO YEON RYU: Actually at the back nine, the wind dies down a lot.  It's more easy to make a decision because the wind wasn't there, but the front nine -- the front nine for me, the back nine for me, the wind was howling and sometimes the wind changes direction, so it's really hard to make a decision.  Also wind was strong enough to affect putting, as well, so that was one of the things I was struggling with, putting, today.  So because of that, I started to misread the greens, and so that was one of the toughest things.   
 Q.  How will you celebrate your birthday tonight?  
SO YEON RYU: Well, I'm pretty tired today.  Then, you know, I'm going to wake up really early tomorrow morning.  So maybe not today.  Maybe tomorrow with my friends and families, especially my younger sister just arrived at Chicago airport to celebrate my birthday.  And we didn't know that, but we can celebrate to become No. 1, as well.  A lot of things happened this week and I'm still really happy to have my mom, my cousin and my sister as my company this week.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT