SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY ACER
June 1, 2017
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How does it feel to be back here?  You haven't been back here in a couple of years.
SO YEON RYU: Yeah, I haven't played this tournament since 2013, and it was because of like scheduling things, but this year schedule was perfectly working.  This tournament is one of the longest history we have, so I think it's really been cool to play, especially I heard since 1992, this tournament being donated like $30 million for all their charity things.  That's another really, really good cause to play this tournament, and hopefully -- to be honest, I haven't really played well this tournament, so hopefully I can play well enough this week, and hope I can become a champion.
Q. How do you feel after last week?  You almost missed the cut.  You probably struggled a little bit.  What was the problem, and how have you fixed it for this week?
SO YEON RYU: Well, even though like last year I didn't really play well, I wasn't really feeling anything bad, my swing, my putting stroke, my short game, nothing was really going wrong, but it was, I think, just one of those days.  Like something is not really going on well.  But fortunately I was able to make the cut, so I really feel blessed about it.
This week I really want to focus on my having a really good putting stroke because this grass is poa annua grass, and it's really famous for bumpy greens.  You know, it's like, to be honest, it's really hard to putt bumpy greens, but the fact is as long as you have a good stroke and good roll, you're still able to make it.
My mindset is I don't want to blame the bumpy greens.  I don't want to blame the grass type.  I just want to focus on having a pure roll.
Q. You're very close to being No. 1 in the world.  What would that mean to you?
SO YEON RYU: Since I dreamed about the LPGA Tour, I also dreamed about becoming the No. 1 player in the world then.  I haven't been this close, but right now I'm definitely close to No. 1, so that one gave me an extra motivation to keep working hard.  Yeah, I definitely want to become No. 1 at some point, and I'm working really hard for that, as well, but I think the more important thing is enjoy this moment and enjoy playing golf.  I believe that will get me to No. 1.
Q. I believe a quote you had after you won the ANA, people consider me a good player but not a great player.  What gives you that thought?
SO YEON RYU: Well, because, you know, like we are professional golfers, so even though we try not to think about other people's opinion, we always kind of like hear about what other people thinking about me.  Even though I always taught myself to -- this is I'm living my dream, so I cannot do better than this, I always do my best, that's good enough.  But when people are asking when are you going to win, you haven't really won, those kinds of things are hard to stick to your plan A mindset.  So I think that was the one thing that distracted me.  But at the end I think I got through the whole thing, and hopefully I'm going to think -- I'm going to strongly believe my opinion instead of other people's opinions.
Q. What's your support network like?  Do you talk to your family?
SO YEON RYU: Yeah, absolutely family is No. 1 fan for me, and I'm working with a psychologist, as well, and she always told me I deserve to win a tournament, I deserve to become No. 1 in the world, so she always gives me a lot of positive words.
Also, like to be honest, all the players competing against each other every week, but at the same time, we are also really great supporters, as well.  Whenever we lost in a playoff or whenever we got through a tough time, we always help each other, as well.  After I won the ANA Inspiration, a lot of players have been telling me well deserved and you're a true champion.  When you hear those kind of words from your fellow competitors, that feels really, really great.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT