LOTTE CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY HERSHEY
April 13, 2017
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Put yourself in pretty good position.
SO YEON RYU: Yeah, I was quite nervous before I start this tournament, that as soon as I start this tournament I feel much better.
I don't really think about what happened last week, last two weeks.  I only focus on my game.
So it's definitely help me to focus on each shot instead of think about whole thing.
Then my shots been really great, so I didn't make any bogeys for this two rounds, which is really positive.  Then I just couldn't really make a lot of putt.  Even though I shoot 69 and 68 yesterday, I wasn't really 100% happy with my putting.  Hopefully my putting going to be better for the weekend.
Q. Feel like wind picked up a little bit today?
SO YEON RYU: No, about the same.  But yesterday we got really, really big rain.  Before that rain wind switched so much so we really struggled to find out where the wind coming from.
Today wind is basically coming from same direction, so I think it's about same strength, and better-to-read wind though.
Q. Does it give you a lot of confidence in your game that even though your putting may not be there as much, you're still 7-under through two days?
SO YEON RYU: Yeah.  Well, because my shot still great right now.  Because like even though when you miss the birdie putt, if you're not heads down, you keep going to make birdie chance, and you know I keep going to make birdie chance.
So even though I miss the putt, I always try not to be negative.  Always give myself, Okay, I miss it, but it was just one shot.  Let's just think about my next shot, instead of still think about that shot.
I think just positive mind could help me make more putt for the weekend.
Q. Iron and wedge play...
SO YEON RYU: Yeah, these days I feel pretty comfortable with my swing.  Even though with the really strong wind my ball flies pretty ideal for these strong wind.  I still feel comfortable to playing with this strong wind.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT