ANA INSPIRATION
April 2, 2017
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Very emotional, first of all, congratulations, you just told me that it doesn't feel right.  Explain that to us.
SO YEON RYU: Yeah, I just, you know, cannot believe this situation.  During play, I didn't even check the leaderboard, but I thought Lexi played really, really well.  Then I didn't expect it, what happened to Lexi.  It's like very unfortunate situation.
So, well, like I didn't expect it.  I thought, I'm well behind, so all I wanted to do was just play my game and enjoy my game.  I was paired with my best friend, Inbee Park today, so I just really wanted to have a really good, strong finish.
Q. Anybody who knows you watching golf and on this tour knows that you care about women's golf and you care about your fellow competitors.  What was it like for you when you heard that Lexi was assessed that four shot penalty?
SO YEON RYU: Well, like every player is so dedicated.  We always work hard to bring our A Game out and we always respect our game and then for sure, Lexi didn't really know about the situation.  So it just hurts me, as well.
So yeah, it's kind of a weird feel but at the same time, I'm really proud of myself and then yeah, I just really appreciate everything right now.
Q. This is also a time for celebration.  You said you're proud of yourself.  You've had all top-five finishes this season in all five events and you get another major title.  When you think about what you experienced out there and fighting for that, you knew the crowd was for Lexi.  Explain to us how proud you are to be able to fight through that.
SO YEON RYU: To be honest, this is America and Lexi is American, so a lot of crowd is going to be rooting for Lexi.  But at the same time, a lot of Koreans coming out and I knew a lot of people supporting me in Korea right now.  They are there watching on TV.  Yeah, I didn't really care about what other people -- what name they are yelling about.  I really just think about myself.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT