ANA INSPIRATION
April 1, 2017
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How do you feel overall?  
SO YEON RYU: First of all, I was fortunate to play in the morning on Thursday, so I was able to save some energy and then play nine yesterday and play nine this morning.  I think right now, I think I'm in my zone.  I'm not really thinking about the other players.  I really feel like I'm just really focused on my game, which that's what I wanted, so I feel pretty great.   
 Q.  When we spoke earlier in the week you said your ball-striking was great but you wanted to make sure your putting was where you wanted it.  Do you feel as though it's there?  
SO YEON RYU: Yeah, I think it's getting better.  I think no matter the result, I feel much more freedom when I putt, and what I really like to do is think about how to roll the putt instead of how to hit the putt.  I don't really want to think about any technique thing, I just want to use like full imagination.  Right now it's right on track.   
 Q.  And you're very comfortable with the conditions of the golf course?  
SO YEON RYU: Yeah, actually the greens didn't -- the golf course is in really good shape.  I know we lost some trees, some of the trees fell down, but other than that, the golf course is in great shape.   
 Q.  And you feel pretty good about having 27 holes today?  
SO YEON RYU: Yeah, you know what, we played 33 holes in Thailand, as well, and I still survived that.  Compared to Thailand this is pretty good conditions.  So yeah, I'm okay with 27.   
 Q.  How much of a boost to your spirits were those last two birdies?  
SO YEON RYU: Well, first of all, you know, always happy to have a bogey-free round, and last hole was pretty good birdie.  That was long one maybe, but I was still able to make it.  So yeah, I feel great finishing with birdie.   
 Q.  You talked about being in your zone.  Is that something you felt like you've done even going back to last year?  Is that like a motto, being in your own zone?  
SO YEON RYU: Oh, absolutely.  Well, it's not just about last year, compared to last few years and what I really learned is you'd better not compare with anyone.  You better try to develop yourself.  You'd better try to just play your own game instead of thinking about comparing.  It's like, okay, I'm two shots ahead so I have plenty of time to be lazy.  I don't want to keep those kind of attitudes.  I still want to play great as I can, so I just really want to focus on my game.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT