ANA INSPIRATION
April 1, 2017
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Still feeling it?  
SO YEON RYU: Yeah, today I also was really able to focus on my game, so I'm happy with that part.  Then I think maybe today the tee shot was not really comfortable as before.  Maybe I was a bit tired, so my body felt a little tired and I couldn't really hold it or something.  Yeah, if I'm working more on my tee shot for tomorrow, I think it's going to be great.   
 Q.  You mentioned how tiring it was; quite a grind today?  
SO YEON RYU: Actually I didn't really feel like I played 27 holes today, which is positive.  But even though I feel like it's okay right now, but body must be tired a little bit, so I'm going to have a good rest and ready to bring my game tomorrow.   
 Q.  What do you expect for tomorrow?  
SO YEON RYU: Of course you want to win.  Maybe I can go really low round tomorrow, then look forward to having a really good trophy.   
 Q.  What's your favorite part about playing here at the ANA?  
SO YEON RYU: First of all, a lot of crowds coming out and they're yelling and cheering us.  That's a really good part.  We've been playing the same golf course for so long that actually that helped me to see like what part is better than the last few years, and it's really fun to see sort of those kind of things.  Then the other thing is this golf course you have to have all different sort of shots, low shots, high shots, fade shots.  That's what I really like about this golf course.   
 Q.  Do you think the suspended play the last few days has helped you or hurt you?  
SO YEON RYU: I don't know because everybody the same.  I don't think it really can hurt.  But playing 27 holes is not really normal, so in that way it could hurt, but it's fair, so I'm not going to say it's hurt me.   
 Q.  We were trying to come up with a number for a major championship; I never thought 13-under would have been leading at the end of Saturday.  That seems awfully low.  What has happened out here that has allowed those numbers to get so low?  
SO YEON RYU: Actually greens are in really, really great shape, so I think even though -- when you have like 20-footer or 30-footer, you still feel pretty comfortable to putt it because it looks like everything is so clean, so as long as you pick a really good line and good speed, you're still able to make it.  Great green conditions helps us to putt really well.  Maybe we're supposed to have a really strong wind on Thursday afternoon, so maybe the rules officials set it up expecting a really strong wind, but it ended up we couldn't really play in the afternoon and they suspended it and we played in the morning.  Maybe it could have helped a little bit, and as you said, 13-under is leading right now, so I am kind of expecting to have some tough pin locations tomorrow.   
 Q.  Will that help or hurt you if they said this thing up harder for tomorrow?  
SO YEON RYU: I like challenging, so I don't mind to have tough pin locations.  All I need to do is just see the shot and just play the shot and make it.   
 Q.  You seemed a little frustrated with a couple of iron shots early in the round but then by the back nine you seemed to have your ball-striking back.  
SO YEON RYU: Yeah, sometimes even though you know what you have to do, your body cannot do it, but good thing is you know what you have to do to fix it, and I knew there was a solution.  I was definitely frustrated right after I missed the shot, but after that I knew it was like, okay, let's just think about the one thing and stick to that advice coming from my coach, then just keep playing.   
 Q.  You had two three-putts today and it would have put you in the final group.  
SO YEON RYU: Yeah.   
 Q.  What happened there?  
SO YEON RYU: Yeah, the front nine I missed like three-foot, four-foot par putt, which I had a three-putt, which is not a good thing, but as you said, if I didn't miss it, I would have been in the last group.  But at the same time, I also made a long putt, as well, so I would call that one as even.  Hopefully I can make tomorrow everything.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT