KIA CLASSIC
March 25, 2017
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Congratulations on an excellent round.  
SO YEON RYU: Thank you very much.   
 Q.  What was working so well?  
SO YEON RYU: Well, even the last two round shot was pretty great, but I just didn't really make many putts.   
Then earlier this morning green condition was much better.  When you play, obviously morning green conditions better than afternoon.   
So I think I was able to just trust it more so I was able to make it more.  Even the back nine I had plenty of birdie chances, but it wasn't -- maybe wasn't good enough to drop it.   
My stroke and everything was pretty great.  The other thing is, I been hitting little longer than last few years.  I think that helps me to play this golf course easier.  A little easier than before.  I'm not going to say like easy.   
So 65 is still my best score.  Happy to finish 65 today and look forward to having good round tomorrow.   
 Q.  Why are you hitting it a little bit longer?  
SO YEON RYU: I think I started to change my swing since I started to working with my coach, which is last year in January.  Then my swing got more compact.   
Also, I'm working with a new trainer in Dallas and we been working on to try to make it a really strong scapulary shoulder.   
I think after that everything just worked out well then I might able to use my best power when I have swinging.   
 Q.  Are you weight lifting?  
SO YEON RYU: No.  It's more like I would say -- I mean, when I'm on the road doing more like (indiscernible) stuff instead of just using just like weights stuff.   
Try to be very stabilize the shoulder.   
 Q.  Is there at all any frustration that through 10 you're 7-under, and, boom, eight straight pars?  
SO YEON RYU: Well, you know, after you made six birdies on the front nine, absolutely you're expectation level is going up.  I been through this happen before.  Every time when I have this situation I always talk myself.  You know, like even though I shot 6-under front nine, nothing is different.  You don't really try to do something special.   
So I really try to just keep being really normal instead of thinking something special.   
 Q.  I'll ask the question again:  Any frustration at all?  
SO YEON RYU: No.  Wasn't really.  No.  Yeah.   
 Q.  Course record is 64.  
SO YEON RYU: I knew that.  Yeah, I knew that.  Every time when you're going through the locker they put on the score there, so I knew it.  Yeah.   
 Q.  It's on a wall?  
SO YEON RYU: Yeah, on the wall.  But, well, my goal is just to try to have my game.  It's not beat someone.  So, yeah.   
 Q.  Was it in your mind at all on the back nine?  
SO YEON RYU: No, no.  I really just try to think about one shot at time.  I really didn't think about like whole picture.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT