CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 20, 2016
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Can you talk about the confidence that has just built up as you have continued to strike it well?  You're really confident now on the greens?  It seems as though things are really coming together.  You could have four or five wins easily next year.
SO YEON RYU: Right, yeah, you know, as you said, I think I have a full of confidence right now.  I believe myself I'm a great ball hitter, I'm a great putter, I am so many positive thing.
I think the biggest thing is Tom on my bag.  He's the one all the time be with me on the golf course.  He always give me the, So Yeon, you're great.  Even though you didn't make it, your stroke was great, your swing was great.  So he just give me so many positive energy.  I really went to be appreciate to Tom.  Tom is the one made this happen, to be keep continuing concentrate on my ball no matter what.
So I think just my team is big faith of me.
Q. Obviously it was just a bad break there on 17.  You and Charley hit it one pace apart.  So how do you handle something like that going forward or something you say happens?
SO YEON RYU: Sometime you just -- well, good thing is when you decided to do something then when you are completely having a faith about it, then when you did it you cannot really complain about result.
That's what I did.  Whole 18 hole I just tried to make a good decision with Tom.  Once I make a decision, I 100% believe my decision, then I did it.
Yeah, maybe 17 was only one my decision wasn't really great.  Maybe better to hit 3-wood or draw or something like that.  But just sometimes I feel like just God make that happen.  You know, God make that happen for make me a better player, make me a better person.
So I just really don't want to blame myself.  I just take this one as just serendipity, you know.
Q. Do you have big plans for the off-season?  Looking forward to the break?
SO YEON RYU: Oh, yeah but, I still have tournament in Korea next week as KLPGA vs. LPGA Korean players.  Then I think it's going to be really, really great opportunity to hang around with LPGA players, I mean the LPGA Korean players.  We always travel a lot.  We been work hard.  So I know all my fellow players been working really hard.
Could be really, really great celebration with them.
Q. I know so much attention was on that shot at 17.  Talk about some the great shots you had throughout the round.
SO YEON RYU: Actually so many.  My second hole second shot was really great as well.  I have to pick maybe 16th tee shot.  That's shot is the one I was able to make the co-leader with Charley.  Yeah.  Let's say 16 tee shot.
Q. Do you wish that the 2017 season would begin next week and not couple months down the road?
SO YEON RYU: You know what?  Since I started playing golf as professional golfer, I never really feel like, Oh, I wish I could play more at the last tournament.
Maybe this is the first time I feel like I wish I could play more tournaments.  I think it's really great thing.  I always feel like end of the season I feel like, Oh, maybe I'm ready, I'm not ready, I'm ready to be rest.  Finally I felt like I'm completely ready for just win the tournament.
So, well, even though if I couldn't win, it's still great closing.  Then I hope I can have this feel until next year as well.
Q. Quick question about 17.  Were as cool on the inside as you looked from the outside from TV?  I watched the shot and just curved the right side of the bunker.  It was wonderful.  You couldn't have placed it any better.
SO YEON RYU: Yeah, you know.  I didn't really hit miss-shot.  That's the shot I wanted to hit and I did it.  Unfortunately wind stopped.  Once again, I feel like just God did it.  Maybe he want me to do something else.  Even training harder or practice harder.  I just want to take that one as just my thing, you know.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT