CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 18, 2016
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. It looks like everything is going in.
SO YEON RYU: Yeah, actually definitely today playing was much better than yesterday.  I've done some more with my physio yesterday.  My back was really tight.  I figured out that maybe my rotation was not good enough, so maybe that's why (indiscernible over birds.)
After his touch I definitely was able to swinging well.  Then, I don't know, I just got a lot of confidence from last two weeks I guess China/Malaysia.
I actually like judge myself to, Oh, the bad putter.  I'm bad putter.  Then all of a sudden somehow I was able to switch my mind to, Okay, I'm great putter.  I'm not a bad putter.
Then after my change my attitude I feel more comfortable to be on the putting green.  Then (indiscernible) always told me, So Yeon, when you're on the putting green you just think this green is yours.  You can actually communicate with the green and do everything great on the green.
So I started to have this attitude on the green and then I am playing well right now.
Q. When did the attitude change?  At home?
SO YEON RYU: I think when I spoke to my psychologist.  She always said So Yeon, you're always really great to find the motivation.  You're always really great at finding something to improve.
So just proud of yourself no matter what the result.  If you keep trust yourself, it's going to be great.  Somehow after she said that to me I was able to switch my mind.  I don't know what was it, but I been working with her like ten years.  After having really positive word from her, I was able to have a lot of positive energy.
Q. You did play well, very well, like three top fives in your last five starts over there.  Was there something?  Was that part of it?
SO YEON RYU: I think so, yes.  Yes, like -- well, you know, like a lot of people saying if someone haven't really won the tournament they are not really having a success year.
But finish second is still -- finish fifth is still great result on the LPGA.  I just keep trying to having a positive attitude.  Okay, I'm capable to win the tournament.  I'm capable to being in contention.  I'm capable to competing great players on the tour.
I think that attitude definitely help me out.
Q. You've probably play with Lydia millions of time.  I think Lydia commented she has fun playing with you.
SO YEON RYU: Oh, yeah, we having a lot of fun.
Q. What would it be like playing with her on the weekend in contention?
SO YEON RYU: It's think it's definitely going to be really fun to competing with world No. 1 player.  And then, you know, like she is not only great player, she's really great person.
So that's the one -- I think I really enjoy to play with her.  She loves food like me, so we just talk a lot of thing about food when we are on the golf course.
Also, I get along with Lydia's (indiscernible) as well, so I think all that really make us to feel relax when we play together.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT