CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 17, 2016
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








SO YEON RYU: Yeah, I just keep it positive.  I know before I tee it off my shot wasn't going to be really great, but I just said, You know, even when I won the tournament the shot condition wasn't 100%.  So I got this.  I can handle that.
Then I was able to make like 20-foot birdie putt on 7.  I think that putt boost me up to just bit more focused and, Okay, let's do it.
Q. Was it something that clicked out there for you?
SO YEON RYU: No, it was still bit rusty, you know.  But, yeah, I was just more focused how to make a score instead of how to have a good swing.
Q. When you kind of feel like you don't have it 100%, does that focus you in more?
SO YEON RYU: I think so.  But what I learned through this year, you know, having like swing change this year, sometimes I just think about swing too much.
So what I learned through that is I just rather more focus to like imagination.  You know, just keep imagine how the ball going to fly and what shot I am going to hit instead of where is my hand going to be, my wrist.
So I think you I was really struggle all year this year, but that was the biggest thing I was learn back then.  I think that study was really very helpful.
Q. Putting much better?
SO YEON RYU: Putting was, yeah, much better.  I still miss couple, but I'm human being.  I cannot really make everything.
So I will take that.  (Laughter.)
Q. Seeing the line better?  Feeling the distance a lot better?
SO YEON RYU: Yes, yes, yes.
Q. Good.  Anything about your birdies other than to the 20-footer on 7 that was special?
SO YEON RYU: I think maybe that was the longest putt I made today.  Birdie on 10 I had like 75-yard pitch shot and was like tap-in birdie.
Actually 17 pin position was quite tough, but I had a really great up and down, so I gave myself full credit.
Q. That was a pretty deft chip there on 17.
SO YEON RYU: It was.
Q. What did you do there?
SO YEON RYU: The green was quite up, so I just tried to avoid like really steep hill, so I just landed like well before; just tried to running up.  So I just use 8-iron.
Q. 8-iron?
SO YEON RYU: Yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT