THE EVIAN CHAMPIONSHIP
September 18, 2016
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Well, very nice week for you; it's a little crazy to think four rounds in the 60s wouldn't be enough in a major, but you're overall very happy with the week I'm assuming?
SO YEON RYU: Yeah, for sure.  During 72 holes I only made one bogey, then I made plenty of birdies and I made an eagle, as well.  The more I'm happy about is the way I handled everything, like emotionally, and even when I -- well, to be honest my putting was not good enough compared to my long game, but I was still able to accept it, and I was just still able to manage it and just keep going forward instead of keep thinking about the past.
Yeah, I'm really happy with my technique but also the mental stuff this week, too.
Q. You've had a great run in majors overall; finished in the top 20 in all of them.  What do you kind of credit that to this year overall?  Extra focus or --
SO YEON RYU: No, actually as Annika said last night, when we prepare for the majors, sometimes we just have a big chance to be like prepare too much, like over-training.  As soon as you wake up in the morning, you always can feel, oh, my God, it's a major tournament, like it's the U.S. Women's Open, and I always had to take the extra pressure.  But these days I more just think about, oh, it's definitely challenging and it's going to be a tough test, but I'm ready to enjoy.  So I think just my attitude has helped me out to make my attitude better on the golf course, then feel more comfortable to play the majors.
Q. So Chun is definitely breaking the LPGA record but a chance to break the men's record, as well.  Just kind of your thoughts on her ability to sort of take it to another level this week and her popularity in Korea.
SO YEON RYU: Yeah, I think she was a really, really great player even when she played on the KLPGA Tour.  She won a lot of tournaments in Japan, as well.  She's a rookie right now, but she's not really like a rookie.  She's a rookie but not rookie.
Also I think having experience in KLPGA definitely helps her to play well on the LPGA, and being a major champion, she has to be great at every spot, long game, short game, but typically her putting is really great, so that's the thing that makes her really strong.
Inbee got the gold medal and she won the major tournament, and she won two majors in a row as her career went, so it's going to be huge to Korean fans, as well.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT