THE EVIAN CHAMPIONSHIP
September 17, 2016
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You shot a 2-under par today.  We've seen people shoot 8-under today.  We've also seen a couple of golfers into 7-over par.  How do you rate your performance?  
SO YEON RYU: Actually I think today conditions was quite tough ones, so maybe that's why some girls really struggle with it, but good news is we've had a lot of rains, so greens are softening up, so if somebody has their shot, conditions is good enough they're able to just hit it to the pin, so they can make a lot of birdie chances.  I think that's why you can see big numbers and you can see really low numbers.  Yeah, also if I just look back on my round, I think my shot was good enough, and I had a bogey-free round the last two days, but I made one bogey today, but just one bogey for three rounds, still good enough.   
But yeah, maybe only thing is I couldn't make a lot of birdie putts.  I had a lot of birdie chances, but I couldn't even make half of them.  Maybe that's the only thing I can complain about.   
 Q.  Well, not much to complain about your season because you have had a very good season in 2016.  Six top-10 finishes.  How do you explain your consistency?  
SO YEON RYU: Well, first of all, I started to work with a new swing coach since January of this year, and when I first started to change my swing I definitely struggled, but right now my swing definitely has been improved, so my shot is even more consistent than before, and also I have a lot of positive mindset, so I definitely have a good swing.  But I think just putting was not good enough compared to my long game.   
Yeah, definitely I have a lot of positives about my swing and a lot of confidence about my swing.  Maybe putting was the only thing I can say was not good enough to win, but it was still good enough to keep playing consistently.  Hopefully one day I'm going to be a consistent winner, as well.   
 Q.  You're currently seven shots behind the leader; what do you reckon your chances are of winning the title tomorrow?  
SO YEON RYU: You know, golf always can be something happens, so you never know.  But she's a pretty amazing golfer at a really young age.  She's definitely one going to be a really tough one to compete with, but I think I definitely have a chance tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT