THE EVIAN CHAMPIONSHIP
September 16, 2016
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Backed up the first round with another solid one.  What's been working for you so far?  
SO YEON RYU: Well, yeah, I really glad to have a bogey-free round.  Yeah, since yesterday everything was really great.  Tee shot was great.  I was happy with all my shots.   
Putting was only part I wasn't really happy yesterday, so I been working on putting yesterday.  Obviously I made a lot of great putt today, so I guess if putting is working it's going to be really great.   
 Q.  What specifically do you work on after a round when you're struggling a little bit with the putting?  What kind of drills do you do?  How do you get your mind back right to where you can make everything?  
SO YEON RYU: I always make sure, you know, all the fundamental stuff.  You know, am I just aim correctly or am I just having a right putting pass or, you know, right face angle.  So everything is really fundamental things.   
I think if I'm too technical I could just ruin my feel as well.  Normally I'm just pretty much checking the basic stuff, and I try not to be too technical.   
 Q.  Is that something that Tom helps you with or is something you basically work out on your own?  
SO YEON RYU: Yeah, absolutely.  I been working with him five years now.  This is my fifth year to working with him.  He knows when my mind goes crazy, you know, someone needs be stop.   
He is the one always make me relax, rea lax about it.  Yeah, he help me a lot.   
 Q.  Another major; you're in contention again.  What's the key to playing well the rest of the way?  
SO YEON RYU: The first of all, I think this golf course is really important having a good tee shot.  Obviously I made -- I hit all fairways today, so I think really important having a good tee shot.   
And you know, like for winning a major tournament you have to be great every part.   
For me, most important thing is I just better not to frustrating, even when I have a really bad shot.  Just accept it and just going to think about positive.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT