THE EVIAN CHAMPIONSHIP
September 15, 2016
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Take me through today; very solid round.  Did you feel good coming into this week?
SO YEON RYU: You know, bogey-free round is always good.  You cannot really complain anything when you have a bogey-free round.  But especially my tee shot and irons.  Everything was pretty great.  If I have to be picky, my putting was not great enough compared to other sides of my game.  I just had a lot of great birdie chances within 10 feet, but I would say I couldn't even make 50 percent of them.  So if I can drop more putts, I can expect to make more birdies the next three days.  So what I'm going to do is just working hard on my putting.  Actually I've been working really hard with my putting.  I always believe if I work hard, it's going to pay off one day.  So hopefully it's going to pay off the next three days.
Q. What have you been doing putting-wise, changing anything?
SO YEON RYU: No, not really changing anything, I think all I need to do is just more trust myself, then just -- I was in Texas with my coach last week, and we've just been working hitting the right path with my putting stroke, Cameron McCormick.  I think the only thing I need to do is trust myself, and I think speed control could be the really important key because you're kind of expecting the bad weather, but weather turned out really nice today.  It's been really hard to figure out what speed is going to be great speed because when I warmed up this morning, it was pouring, then the greens were really slow.  I was expecting, oh, maybe it's not rain, so maybe the greens are going to be okay, but actually still slow.
Yeah, I would say trust myself and speed control.  That would be key for my putting.
Q. How do you feel on this course?  You've obviously played it a decent amount.
SO YEON RYU: I think this is my sixth year to play this tournament, and I've only finished top 10 once, I believe.  The thing is I didn't really feel comfortable with the tee shots at this golf course, but since I started working with Cameron, my tee shots have been improved so much.  My tee shot was pretty much -- I would say pretty much perfect today.  So I feel more comfortable to play this golf course today.
Also my driver is going a little longer today, as well, so I was feeling more comfortable to hit the par-5s, and I was able to make an eagle today.
Q. Take me through the eagle.
SO YEON RYU: Yeah, hole 13, hit a driver, 3-wood.  It was about 215 to the front of the green, and like 230 -- almost like 240 hole, and I hit a 3-wood, and finished about 35 feet short, so just made it.
Actually I played with Sandra, and Sandra just made an eagle just before I had my putt, and it was like exactly the same line, so she was a bit longer than me.  She made it first, so she showed me perfect line, so I just followed her and made it.
Q. Back-to-back eagles.
SO YEON RYU: Yeah.  We had a perfect -- how can I say, like partnership.
Q. Coming into this week, I was looking at your results, and you've been playing well.
SO YEON RYU: Yeah, I think only -- I think the only thing I need to do is -- I've been hitting really great, and the thing is when you hit really great, if you're like consistently hitting really great shots, then when you have just one missed shot, it's really kind of easy to get frustrated.  That's what I did.  I got really frustrated, then I just lost my mind so I couldn't really control myself.  So I've been talking to my caddie quite a lot about this situation.
I'm not a robot, I'm a human being, so I need to accept my faults, as well.  I just need to commit to shots and I just need to accept what I hit, and only thing I need to do is just keep thinking about the present instead of past.  If I can handle that well, I think I can win the tournament.
Q. So you're being a little bit of a perfectionist?
SO YEON RYU: Yeah, exactly, exactly.
Q. So tomorrow, what do you think you need to carry over from today?
SO YEON RYU: First of all, I really appreciate this weather.  We were expecting really bad weather, but I got the really good weather, so hopefully we can have nice weather for the next three days.  Yeah, I really want to have this nice tee shot for the next three days, and hopefully I can make some more putts.
Q. We had someone look it up, and you and Ariya are the only two players that have top 20 in majors this year.
SO YEON RYU: Ooh, that's great.
Q. What is it about majors this year, just in general, that you're always a name at the top of the leaderboard?  Do you think it just brings the best out of you, that you want to do well?  What's your approach?
SO YEON RYU: You know, every tournament is special, but majors are more special.  Also the atmosphere is a little different, and of course the course setup is a bit more difficult than what it is, so I'm the one that always really enjoys the challenge.  I think that's why I was able to enjoy major tournaments, and when you enjoy golf, you know you can play well.  I think that was the thing I did really well for the last four majors.  Also this week's major, I just really want to enjoy this beautiful scenery.  I know I'm good right now, my tee shot and everything is good right now, so just believe in myself and enjoy my golf.
Q. I have to ask about the socks.  I've never seen you sport these, but have you sported these before?
SO YEON RYU: No, not really often, but I have a lot of thick pants, and I thought it's going to be really a lot of rain.  It's going to be really wet, so I thought thick pants with rain pants is going to be like, oh, my God, it's going to be so hot, so I was like, okay, let's do something, let's do something new.  Then it actually worked out, the weather was really great.
Q. Who makes them?  Is that like a golf company?
SO YEON RYU: Yeah, it's Fila.  It's my clothing company.  Actually recently they got a new designer there, and I love their stuff.
Q. So it's more functional, but it looks fashionable?
SO YEON RYU: Yes, exactly.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT