UL INTERNATIONAL CROWN
July 22, 2016
So Yeon Ryu
Sei Young Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Could you just sum up the match for us today?  
SO YEON RYU: Well, actually to be honest, yesterday's play was better than today's play from both of us, but I think today our teamwork was really nice, but maybe we couldn't make enough birdies, so I think we might have a chance to finish even earlier.  But I think today our teamwork was really nice.  Like when Sei Young was a little hurried and Sei Young was a little upset, I was able to help her out, and as soon as I said something to her, she was able to play better.   
Yeah, I think our teamwork worked really well.   
 Q.  You two are the fiery ones and the other two are more relaxed.  Do you like that setup, and is that going to remain the same?  
SO YEON RYU: Well, hard to tell about Amy and In Gee's team because I haven't really looked at them, but I think both of us really like our teamwork.  It's like we just talked a lot, and I just thought good something for her today, so we're able to have a lot of relax.  When you get really intense, you cannot have fun, but our personalities both pretty like good feel, so we're able to have a lot of fun.  That definitely makes it helpful to play better and more relaxed.   
 Q.  Do you feel like you're more aggressive this week than you are in a typical LPGA event?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: How my ball position, yeah, try to be aggressive normally.   
 Q.  How do you like this format?  How do you like international team play, match play?  
SO YEON RYU: I think if we're able to play foursomes, that's going to be more fun, I guess.  Well, because like four-ball obviously takes a really long time, and I think if we're going to play foursomes, we can see more a variety of things, like more fun.  The thing is like even let's say if somebody misses a tee shot to the rough, you still don't really care, because the other one can make up.  But as far as if you hit it to the rough, somebody has to have a really great make up and have to have like a miracle shot.  I think if we're able to play foursomes, as well, it's going to be a more exciting tournament.   
 Q.  The other thing was when this event was played two years ago, it was like the highest-rated TV event for golf in Korea.  Are you getting a sense back home that there's intense interest again?  Do you have any idea?  
SO YEON RYU: Well, actually yesterday our golf fans were a bit upset we lost to China because obviously we are like No. 1 seed, and they're like 7 or 8.  Yeah, but definitely.  I think no matter what kind of tournament, a lot of Koreans just really care about the result and they really want to cheer for us.   
If we have a really good chance to win this tournament, for sure it's going to have another great, great in Korea.   
 Q.  Who was upset that you guys lost to China, and how did you know this?  
SO YEON RYU: These days a lot of -- I'm doing a lot of like Twitter and Instagram.   
 Q.  Oh, it was Twitter trolls?  
SO YEON RYU: Yeah.  But I have to be used to, but still, when you say something bad you cannot really -- it kind of sticks in your mind then.  Sometimes it's good when you have extra motivation, but sometimes it's really bad because you can be really depressed.  So yesterday I just captured that and I just sent it to my friends and said, okay, I'm pretty upset because of these guys, and my friends started firing off, oh, don't worry about this stupid guy, and they definitely helped me out to get away from that comment.  But sometimes it's tough.   
 Q.  Was that Inbee?  
SO YEON RYU: No.  If it was Inbee I'd definitely capture in a Twitter, what do you think about this bad person.  No, Inbee is definitely not that kind of person.  She knows how tough it is.   
 Q.  I mean were you texting with Inbee?  
SO YEON RYU: No, actually the other one.  These days I really try not to say anything about golf to Inbee.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT