ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT LADIES SCOTTISH OPEN
July 25, 2017
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  So what are your initial thoughts of the course here?  
SO YEON RYU: Yeah, I played 18 yesterday and the greens very see severe.  Off the green is very tough.  If you're in the bunker, it could be like an unplayable.  So I think you have to have really good iron shots to get close to the pin and get to the safe area.   
And then, well, I think it depends on the wind.  This golf course could play really, really different.  Depends on if it's helping or into; the tee shot is going to be really, really different.  I think this week, we have to be really smart.   
 Q.  It's the first time that this event has been played before the RICOH Women's British Open and they have been doing that on the men's side for a while.  What do you like about that setup?  
SO YEON RYU: I think on a links golf course, it's very different than other any golf course, and you have to get used to it.  Maybe only one week could be not enough time to get used to links-style golf course.   
But right now we're playing the Scottish Ladies Open and then we're going to play the British Women's Open next week, as well, so we have a lot of chance to get used to links-style golf course which is very unique, but I love it.  This is the Home of Golf and how golf started the first time, so I really like to get a feel for it.   
 Q.  Back home with the week off last week, is there anything you do to prepare for links golf?  Texas is different than Scotland obviously.  
SO YEON RYU: Good thing is I practise at Trinity Forest, which is a links-style golf course.  So I was able to practise some like 40 to 50 yards, like running shot and a lot of long putting, like 30-yards range putting and 40-yards range putting.   
So yeah, I did those kind of things.  But it's too hot and it was not really windy, so it was not totally same as here.  But I think it was real areally great to practise about like 40- and 50-yard shot with a like running shots and a lot of long putts.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT