KINGSMILL CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY JTBC
May 21, 2016
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Just by what happened there on 18, you have to feel great heading into tomorrow, right?  
SO YEON RYU: Yeah, you know, I was almost going to play a bogey-free round and I made a bogey at the last hole.  I was pretty disappointed.  But yeah, I hit a bad tee shot.  The left side is really, really stiff, so I wasn't able to hit to the green, so I ended up just laying up, and I was kind of expecting a good up-and-down from there, but I got another unlucky bounce and I spun back the third shot.  I had a chip shot again, so I just made a 5.   
But the rest of the day my playing was pretty great.  I'm happy with that.   
But if I really think about what's the difference between yesterday, it's just the putts were not dropping, so hopefully tomorrow I'll drop everything.   
 Q.  Tomorrow you're going for your first win in a little while.  Do you prepare differently?  What will you do?  
SO YEON RYU: I think maybe I might better not to do anything different.  I might better to do just what I'm normally doing.  As you said, I haven't really won a tournament since 2014, so I really look forward to having another trophy, and I'm pretty excited to be in contention.  Well, the weather is supposed to be really bad tomorrow, so hopefully I can have a good day somehow and get lucky, and we've got good weather and good sun.  I'm ready to be in a fight with somebody.   
 Q.  With the weather being bad tomorrow, tee times are moving up a lot.  As the leader you're going to go off around 9:00 a.m.  Is that a big change for you at all?  
SO YEON RYU: No.  You know, I'm really used to it.  I'm an early bird, so I don't think it's going to be a really, really big difference between 9:00 a.m. tee-off and 2:00 p.m. tee-off.  You know, if we can have better weather with the early tee-off, it would be better to play early tee-off.   
 Q.  You mentioned the other day playing with Stacy, you guys encourage each other a lot.  Was that going on today, as well?  
SO YEON RYU: Oh, yeah, absolutely.  If it's like last round and if it's like final few holes, we could be like really focused on our ball and we might cannot really talk to each other, but at least when we were playing like through the first round, we always talk and we're having fun, especially Stacy's caddie Travis and Tom is really, really good friends, so we always have a lot of fun.  We have a really great history, as well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT