KINGSMILL CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY JTBC
May 20, 2016
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What's it like to get on a roll like that?  
SO YEON RYU: Today I've been putting really nice.  My first hole I made a bogey, but it felt really great the next two holes.  I made birdie-birdie right away.  Even my shot and birdie putt, and putting -- I think today just everything was really working well.   
 Q.  Obviously the position you're in, you've got to love it.  
SO YEON RYU: Oh, absolutely.  I think these days -- I haven't really consistently shot low scores since Hawai'i, like five or six tournaments, then I shot 7-under again today, so I hope I can hold this score the next two days, as well.   
 Q.  Seventh hole you had a nice shot to set up the birdie, and then you took over the lead right there.  Is that when it kind of came full circle that, man, I'm having a great day and I'm in the lead?  
SO YEON RYU: Actually when I'm playing I'm not really thinking about where I am.  I'm just more focused on how I'm playing and just think about each hole.  When I made a birdie, I knew I'm going to take the lead, but I didn't think about -- to make a birdie for taking the lead.   
 Q.  What was the biggest thing, ball-striking, putting, all of the above?  
SO YEON RYU: Well, for 7-under you should have every shot, like good tee shot, good second shot, good putting, good chipping.  But compared to yesterday, today putting was definitely better than yesterday.   
 Q.  Are birdies contagious in your group, when you see Stacy playing well?  
SO YEON RYU: Well, you know, it's really fun to play with someone consistently making birdies.  Also we're not really competing with each other, we're just really supportive of each other.  Even when we have a bad shot, we keep talking to the ball, "stay there," or just "keep up."  It was really fun to play with Stacy.   
 Q.  You have been in the top 10 all three years that you have played here.  What about this course suits your game so well?  
SO YEON RYU: Yeah, this one is definitely my favorite golf course what we play.  Like you say, I consistently play really well here, so I feel really comfortable to stay here.  I think I just really like the atmosphere, so I really enjoy it, so enjoying it makes me play better.   
 Q.  Last year here you talked about just working with a mental coach and trying to enjoy the game more, not thinking so much.  Has that carried through?  
SO YEON RYU: Actually these days what I'm really focused is got back to confidence.  The thing is, I think since Hawai'i I really played really well.  I always feel I'm ready to play well, I'm ready to win a tournament, but I couldn't get enough like confidence.  So I think that was the reason why I couldn't really finish well.  So I hope I can get -- really enjoy this tournament, and I'm just going to have, okay, I'm a really good player, I can do this.  I'm just going to keep talking to myself like that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT