SWINGING SKIRTS LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY CTBC
April 21, 2016
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Players thought this course was as hard as anything they've seen in a long time and maybe predicting an even-par winning score.  How were you able to shoot 9-under today?
SO YEON RYU: Well, I was kind of lucky to tee it off really early.  I had a really fresh green, no wind.  Also San Francisco is really cold in the morning, but this morning it was just perfect temperature.
Then I think today just everything was just great.  My tee shot was great.  I only missed one green today.  I shot 17 greens.  Putting was really good.
Then, I mean, if I really need to look back, I think I was really good combination with my caddie as well.
Q. Is this the sort of mindset where you think you can go do something similar to this in any of the next three days?
SO YEON RYU: Well, it's really hard to predict because we never know what's the weather going to be.
One thing I can say is I work really hard and my whole team work really hard.  Hopefully it's going to pay off next three days as well.
Q. What was the advantage of going so early?
SO YEON RYU: You have fresh green.  Normally always in the morning San Francisco is really cold, but it was perfect temperature.  So I think everything was really worked out well.
Only thing I had to wake up really early, like 4:40.
Q. 4:40?
SO YEON RYU: Yeah.  Also, you know, I didn't get any light until 6:  20, so I had a short warmup before I'm going to tee it off.  I think just everything worked out really well.  Especially I was a bit struggle with my putting these days, but putting was really great.  I still miss like last two birdie opportunities, so that one is still bit of disappointing.
But I'm happy with my whole round today.
Q. Saw you just missed the last one there.  Close.  What was the highlight of the round, or highlights?
SO YEON RYU: I would say hole No.4.  My tee shot was at the right side, finish at the rough.  I hit a 7-iron at the rough.  It only flew I would say only 80 yards, so finish at bunker.
Then the greens really up high so was really hard bunker shot.  Almost 30 yards bunker shot, but I did really great.
Even the par putt was like 12 foot really downhill, but I made that.  So I think that was one of the one that boost up, help me to boost up make another birdie.
Q. This is your fifth year.
SO YEON RYU: Uh-huh.
Q. You've had three wins.  What was where you highest finish this year?
SO YEON RYU: I was ten in the ANA Inspiration, yeah.
Q. So did you have an idea coming into this tournament that you would ne doing well today?
SO YEON RYU: Well, every tournament I really want to win the tournament.  I think it's bit too early to discuss about the result.  We still have three more days.
One thing I can say is my whole team work really hard and I work really hard, so hopefully it's going to pays off next three days as well.
Q. I know you had a good round last week in Hawaii.  That was your low round of the year.  Coming into this week was something starting to click last week that maybe came into this week that you changed or anything that's been different?
SO YEON RYU: Well, I don't think I have any problem with my golf skill.  I think it's just more my mental thing.  Especially like last week the sponsor was Korean sponsor.  Everybody I met in Pro-Am, I say hello.  Oh, you need to practice well.  You need to play well to make Olympic team.  So it's just like to say hi.
To be honest, Olympic is really important and absolutely I want to play on it, but I think these days just Olympic just drive me crazy.  I just really want to focus on my golf.
Yeah, fortunately or unfortunately, I just keep really need to reminds that.  That one actually make me cannot -- it's not really -- that one not really help me to 100% focus on my game.
So I really need to think like everything, then I just start to worry too much.  So I just don't want to give myself too much pressure on it.
So, yeah, this week I just switch my mindset.  Okay, if somebody deserve to play Olympic, they going to play Olympic.  If I deserve it, then I am going to play Olympic.
So I really try to focus on me rather than focus on any other thing.
Q. It's such a big deal in Korea.  Do you have to tune it out?  Don't they have weekly standings?
SO YEON RYU: Yeah, yeah.  But I think like biggest thing is like Korean media just make -- if someone going to make Olympic they're great player.  Then if somebody cannot make it they're like really bad player.
I think just that thing just...
Q. Good standards.
SO YEON RYU: Yeah.  To be honest, I think that thing just makes me drive crazy.  Because like, you know, when I start the season I talk myself, Okay, I made a swing change.  I know it's going to take a while.  I just need some time to get used to it.  I'm going to be okay.
Then after I'm keep think about the Olympic, I thought I'm going to be okay, but I don't think I'm going to be okay.  Just I think I just keep thinking about the negative thing when I think about the Olympics, so I really try not think about it.
Really good thing is like earlier this week my English teacher sent me one the article about the Jason Day.  I found out Jason haven't even have any -- like 2009 through 2013 he only had one victory, but 2014 through now he had like eight victories.  So everybody had like those kind of periods.
I just want to be ready when I have my big time.  Then I just want to practice hard and focus on my golf.
Q. You had very little gallery out there compared to the caliber of the of round.  Does that bother you?  You like big crowds?  No crowds?
SO YEON RYU: Well, I think I would rather have more crowd.  It's more fun.  You know, if somebody is supporting you it feels amazing.  It's no matter how many people supporting you.  I think even if you have only one, it means a lot.
Q. Because there wasn't a leaderboard out there with you.  Nobody knew what you were doing.
SO YEON RYU: I just enjoy my round and also enjoy with my fellow competitors and my caddie, so it is okay.
Yeah.
Q. What are your strengths as a player?  What's your forte?
SO YEON RYU: My strength as a player?
Q. Or are you just good at everything?
SO YEON RYU: I think these days iron play pretty well these days.
Q. Iron play?  Do you work with a mental coach now?
SO YEON RYU: Yeah, I'm still with -- she's in Korea.  Dr. Cho.  She's also working with Inbee as well.  She's more like auntie for me.
Q. How often do you check in with her?
SO YEON RYU: I would say at least once a week.  I talk with her even like two days ago as well.  I just talk everything.  Even not about the golf.
Q. Olympic must come up with her?
SO YEON RYU: Yes, yes.  Yeah, yeah.  So, like, yes.  Biggest thing she told me, No matter what, if you play well or not, you're amazing person.  Just trust it.  You always try to do your best at things.  That's most important things.
So she always said, Just don't think you're bad player or just don't think you're going to be bad or something.  Just keep it positive.
Q. What's her first name?
SO YEON RYU: S-o-o, K-y-u-n-g.
Q. She's back in Seoul?
SO YEON RYU: Yeah.
Q. I know you went though some swing changes before in the off season, and it's with Cameron, right?
SO YEON RYU: Yeah.
Q. Okay.  Anything that's been clicking now or you guys are completely through that or you're still maybe a little bit of...
SO YEON RYU: I think I pretty much complete everything.  Also, I hit the ball a little linger.  Soin it more, which is good.  Also is really good -- feels good to control the draw shot, fade shot, and everything.
So I feel pretty much comfortable with the long game.  We were just more working on my short game, especially my putting.  I been working with Ian Baker-Finch as well, so Ian and Cameron been discuss about my putting as well.
So, yeah, feels really good to have really good team.
Q. How many yards do you think you've gained off the tee or in irons or both?
SO YEON RYU: I would say driver, I think like 15 yards at least.  Yeah.
Q. Same equipment?
SO YEON RYU: Yeah, same equipment.  Well, actually different equipment than last year.  Same company, Puma.  I think it's bit of both.  It's good driver and swing change.
Q. Hitting the gym?
SO YEON RYU: Oh, yeah.
Q. With the putting, what have you changed?
SO YEON RYU: Especially this week I change my routine.  I never had any practice stroke before I putted, but Tom recommended me just to have a practice swing, practice stroke, behind the putt.
I think it's really help me to get better visualization.  Yeah, so I think that was the biggest change of my putting.
Then other thing is Cameron and Ian mentioned my backswing could be too wrong long.  So I had a bit of short backswing that actually makes my hand feel lighter.  So I think it's really helpful to make a lot of putt today.
Q. Coming through on 8 and 9, you had birdie chances on both.  You knew how well your round was.  Did that effect those two putts?
SO YEON RYU: No, I was just focus on that hole.  I mean, because I knew as soon expect something like my body could be like got a lot of tension, so I really just try to focus on each ball.
I think 8 was really tough putt.  A lot of break left to right.  Yeah, then I think the last hole I just break too much.  Just misread the line.
Good thing is nothing wrong with the technique even when I miss the putt, so I think it's really positive thing.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT