U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP 2017
July 16, 2017
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How would you classify the day today, what words would you use?
SO YEON RYU: I could have had a good day.  I started my round with bogey bogey.  After those two holes I think pretty -- I think 2-under is good to fight back.  I'm happy with the score.
Then just one thing is maybe I was hoping I was able to make couple more birdies at the back-9 but it was not enough to catch up to the leader.  It was really good tournament.  I'm happy with my finish.
Q. Do you watch the leaderboard to see where you are to catch up?
SO YEON RYU: I haven't seen it until I made a birdie at 10.  After I make birdie at 10 I thought I might have chance to catch up the leader if I can make few more birdies and then I look it up, then I was only two shots behind and I was like, "Okay, I have a chance, let's go get it."
Yeah.  But even though I tried my best, I couldn't do it but tough finish at the Open.
Q. What was going wrong on the back-9 where you weren't able to get the birdies?
SO YEON RYU: Nothing wrong.  12 I missed the birdie putt.  After I hit a really good putt, just misread the line and everything was just sort of like that because at 13 I hit a really great tee shot but finish with a divot which is one of the toughest greens to approach to the pin.
I think just one of the -- it was kind of unlucky at the back-9 but, once again, after first two holes I think 2-under par is really good score.
Q. The fact you won the Women's Open before, that when you need to make shots happen and you're in the thick of things, does that help you?
SO YEON RYU: Absolutely.  Like every time when I'm in trouble or when I have a chance I always talk myself, "I'm a U.S. Women's Open's Champion.  I've done this before, I can do it again."  That effect a lot to my game all the time.
Q. How did this particular U.S. Open compare to your others?
SO YEON RYU: The U.S. Open golf course is always tough, one of the toughest like whole year.  U.S. Open use lot of like variety of tees, like teeing ground.  This way I think a bit less than before but yeah, it was definitely one of the toughest course set-up.
Q. One last one.  Lot of South Koreans near the top of the leaderboard.  One in position to win right now again.
How does that feel and why do you think that it is?
SO YEON RYU: Well, yeah, it's really great to see lot of my country friends, you know, being up the leaderboard but I think this is not really a matter of countries.  We are all fellow competitors, we're really good friends out there.
Whoever is having a good round is going to win the tournament and be in Top-10.  Yeah, it's really glad to see lot of Korean girls up here but nothing really can say anything about that.  Nothing really tell much about that.
Q. In Korean how do you feel about your round today and your result here at the U.S. Women's Open?
SO YEON RYU: (In Korean).






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT