FUBON LPGA TAIWAN CHAMPIONSHIP
October 24, 2015
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Fantastic round, 2-under 70.  You're in the hunt going into the final round.  Some tough conditions here today, a little bit wet.  What was the key to your round today?
SO YEON RYU: Yeah, actually today the weather was a little bit worse than I expected.  It was constantly rainy and windy, but I had a bogey-free round, and I'm pretty happy with my play.  But I missed quite a few birdie putts, so that's the one negative thing.
But even when I missed a putt, I felt okay.  My touch and roll felt that everything was fine, so I look forward to have more birdies tomorrow.
Q. How important is it to minimize mistakes on this golf course?  There are birdie opportunities but a bogey-free round, you have to be pleased with that?
SO YEON RYU: When conditions are very windy, we always expect kind of like safe playing.  I struggled with my long game since Evian, but I was working really hard with my coach in Malaysia and Korea; that I got back to full confidence on my long game.  That's why I had a lot of chance to make a birdie chance.
So I would say, I felt pretty comfortable with this course, and even with the wind, I feel pretty confident to have a good shot.  So I look forward to playing tomorrow.
Q. There's a stacked leaderboard out there.  There's a lot of movement.  Were you watching the leaderboards at all and seeing where Lydia was running off to?
SO YEON RYU: Well, you know, I was really focused on my game.  So I couldn't really see the leaderboard.  But quite a lot of leaderboards up there, so I would be surprised how many birdies Lydia got with these wind conditions.  But she's always a great short gamer, so I assume her putting must be nice today.  It's always great to see someone shot a low score because it means I have a chance to shoot a low score, as well.
Q. Going into tomorrow, you're in the hunt.  What will it take to win tomorrow?
SO YEON RYU: So far I'm five shots back from Lydia.  I would say better to have low expectations and I just want to focus on my game and make more birdie putts.  So we'll see.  Everything can happen with windy conditions, so yeah, I cannot wait to play tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT