CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 23, 2015
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Pretty spirited defense of your title in the final round?  
SO YEON RYU: Yeah, actually the last three days was really disappointing.  Especially yesterday was my worst shot 70 in my life and a was really upset about it and I was really disappointed.   
But I'm really happy with my comeback today.  Especially I struggled with my putting the last three days but today my putting, it's like eight plus.  So I'm really happy to finish my day really successfully.  Maybe I cannot defend my title but still good enough.   
 Q.  On 14, did you hit the green with the drive?  
SO YEON RYU: Yes, then I made eagle, like five-feet putt.   
 Q.  The tee box was a little bit closer.  
SO YEON RYU: Yeah, actually I was surprised to see how they put it up, the teeing ground.  If I have the chance, absolutely I have to play aggressively.  Also, today the game was pretty good, so I just decide to go aim to the pin and just try to hit on the green.  Then I made it.  So it was a really good hole.   
 Q.  When did you start thinking, maybe I have a chance to win or get in a playoff?  
SO YEON RYU: No, actually I haven't really think about I have a chance to win, because I was way far away.  But I made a birdie at the part and then I was a bit awkward situation on the third hole.  But I made a really great up-and-down.   
After that, I'm thinking I might have a chance to shot really low scores today and then I really focused to my game, and I didn't really think about other game or other competition.   
 Q.  Were you watching the scoreboard coming in?  
SO YEON RYU: Yeah, I just saw a lady got birdie on minus 16, what a girl.  She must really enjoy it, playing in Canada and she really enjoyed playing in front of Canadian fans.   
 Q.  She's at 12 actually.  
SO YEON RYU: Oh, really.  I thought she was 16.  Oh, I didn't know that.   
 Q.  She's only one shot ahead of you.  So now that you know that, do you go start prepping for a potential playoff?  
SO YEON RYU: I don't know.  I might just go see what's going on.  As you can see, 10 through 14 is a really great chance to make a birdie.  If it's going positive way to me, it's going to be really good.  But either way I'm still really happy with my defense.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT