U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 12, 2015
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Tell us what the key of the score was today.SO YEON RYU: Today I shot 3-under, must be best score in this week.  Today actually green was more firmer and be more quicker, so I would be more comfortable playing with the really quick green.  So many cars coming out, and so many people cheering on me, so I always feel so great. To be honest this week my shot wasn't really good enough, but I never gave up.  I shot 3-under today and looks like I'm good position to finish top 10, so I'm really happy with another top 10 finish in the U.S. Women's Open.Q. When you started to play well, did you start to look at the leaderboard and see how much more ground you had to make up?SO YEON RYU: Yeah, so many leaders keep coming out there, so I keep checking on the leaderboard.  Players was play way better than I thought, so I really needed to keep it up.  And I missed a couple of really good birdie chance and I was almost like went really down.  But I knew was more chances coming up so I never gave up.  I just kept checking the leaderboard because I really wanted to finish top 10.Q. What was the difference in the golf course?  Other than the greens speeding up, was there much more difference?  Was the golf course much different than you had played previously?SO YEON RYU: I think rough was a bit longer than first day.  Nothing really changes. But today maybe couple of teeing ground was bit really forward, like 16, we have a really good chance to make a 1 on.  So I think that's one of the reason maybe more players had a chance to make a birdie today.Q. What did you do on 16?SO YEON RYU: I shot 3-wood.  I thought I'm not going to reach the green, but actually it was over the green.  That chip shot was really tough one because short, long, either, it was still tough.  So I just pretty much just prayed to the gods, whatever you do, that I just did my best, and I finish maybe like ten feet short.  It was really downhill, and it was left-to-right putt.  I must be aim like six feet left and I made it, so I really happy with my putting on 16. Also I made a really long birdie putt on 17, that's how I could finish minus 3.  So I think 16 was a really good hole to me today.Q. Do you think about opportunities at this point, the chance that you might have had to win?SO YEON RYU: To win the tournament?  Sometimes if somebody shot like 6-under, if somebody waiting at the clubhouse, they have a really good chance to get nervous then they have a chance to be like messed up the game because already -- somebody already finished 6-under in the clubhouse.  So I was like looking forward to that.  But looks like leader is good enough right now.  I'm still just happy with my finish.Q. Does it give you motivation to close the deal next year?SO YEON RYU: Yeah, absolutely.  U.S. Women's Open is always unpredictable, we don't know what's going on, we don't know what's going to happen.  Always so exciting coming up to play.  And some day I want to defend my title again.Q. Are you good friends with Amy Yang?SO YEON RYU: Oh, absolutely.  She's one of the sweetest girl on the Tour, for sure.Q. Tell us about the golf course, itself, or over the course of the entire week.SO YEON RYU: This golf course?  First of all, I think this is one of the longest golf course I've ever played at the U.S. Women's Open.  The greens are a bit small, but slopes really steep, as well.  It's really hard to take the iron shot because hard to say it's going to spin it or release it, where it's going to kick it.  So I think long hitter definitely have a benefit of this golf course


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT