KINGSMILL CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY JTBC
May 18, 2015
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   One of your best finishes this season.   How does it feel coming off 18 this morning?  
SO YEON RYU:   It was way too early.   We been tee'd off quite late, so it was feel a bit different.  
Yesterday wasn't good enough.   The stroke feel was great but just didn't sink it, sink to the hole.   But this morning I just pretty much made every birdie.  
So feel fresh and new and feel good.  
   
 Q.   Coming off the course at 7:45 in the morning.  
SO YEON RYU:   Yes.   I literally woke up almost like 9:00 a.m. last couple days, so then I woke up like 5:00.   So it was huge different.   
But good thing is I'm going to New York driving, so I don't really need to think about the driving time.   So good.  
   
 Q.   What are you doing up in New York?  
SO YEON RYU:   Inbee and I am going to go to Westchester and Lancaster for practice round.   We both live in west coast.   It's a bit annoying to going back and forth, so we just decide to stay in here.  
   
 Q.   What are you going to take with you from this finish today.   Five days of golf out here.   A lot of golf.   
SO YEON RYU:   You know what?   I really enjoyed this tournament and I really enjoyed my golf.   That's huge positive thing.   I couldn't really enjoy my golf last couple weeks.   I so think I got really good and positive feel.  
   
 Q.   You mentioned your positive thinking and mindset and being positive to yourself.   Has that affected your game and have you noticed it at all in the course of the week?  
SO YEON RYU:   You know what?   Sometimes we playing‑‑ we are human being.   We cannot playing perfect every time.   But I'm kind of perfectionist, so sometimes it makes me feel really bad and just ruin to enjoying my life.  
So I think kind of behavior is I'm keep going to enjoy my golf.   It means I can keep play well and I can playing as much as I can.   
   
 Q.   You're someone who has experienced success out here at very young age.   Minjee is starting to do the same.   Do you have any advice to her?  
SO YEON RYU:   You know what?   She's young, but she still looks like mature enough to me.   I don't really think I need to advice to her.   But important thing is we are always on the road, so we have to find something fun otherwise just keep playing golf and golf.  
If she keep going to enjoy her golf and if she can find a really great hobby, then if she able to hang around with the fans, it's going to be nice treat on the road.  
   
 Q.   Have you played with her?  
SO YEON RYU:   Yeah, absolutely.  
   
 Q.   What are your impressions of her game?  
SO YEON RYU:   Actually she's really long hitter.   She is really great ball striker.   When I was play with her she was a bit struggle with her putting, but looks like she was on fire, so I don't think she really need to worry about anything.  
   
 Q.   What did you do well this morning when you came out?   
SO YEON RYU:   I think my iron shot and putting both pretty great today.   Sometimes early morning my body is still not awake, but this morning my body condition was even better than yesterday.   
So I pretty much made every shot and every putt.   So, yeah, perfect this morning.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT