U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP 2017
July 15, 2017
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Every major championship, you have the one round where things are just a little bit off.  You kind of hope you can battle through that.  Was that yours today?  How happy are you to finish the way you did?  
SO YEON RYU: I couldn't bring out my A game definitely today.  Everything was a little off.  I think I'm holding up pretty great, especially I missed a lot of birdie putt on the front nine.  I didn't lose the confidence and keep fighting well.   
The thing is at a major championship, you cannot be perfect the four days.  It's going to be great to have four good rounds, but it's sometimes hard to do it.  Even though if I have a bad day, I just think, okay, this could be the bad day but I still need to hold up.   
 Q.  Can you talk about the difference between the front nine and the back nine?  Very different scoring from everyone.  
SO YEON RYU: Well, hard to tell for me.  Because to me, front nine shot wasn't great.  I couldn't make a lot of good shots.  Front nine was a bit more breezy.  The wind was swirling, so to me it was hard to read the wind.  Also, I think compared to the last two days, the wind was opposite wind.  Maybe that's why the players must be struggle to have a good club selection or having a good target.   
 Q.  Missed a couple of short ones, 4 and then 16.  Were those misreads or did you not good putts there?  
SO YEON RYU: 16, I mis-hit.  4 was great, but just missed it.  Sometimes it just happens.  It's not a big deal.  I'm just more focused on how I'm going to bring my A game tomorrow.   
 Q.  You drove it well.  Was that something that gave you confidence?  
SO YEON RYU: Yeah, to be honest, I couldn't hit my sweet spot today, the tee shot, even though I hit a lot of fairway, everything was a bit off.  Yeah, even having a bad shot, finishing in the fairway is still a good sign.  Hopefully tomorrow I can hit more sweet spot and hit a lot of fairways.   
 Q.  Which adjustments do you make to get it back on?  
SO YEON RYU: I would say tempo.  Everything because bit quick today.  Tempo was a bit off.  Hopefully tomorrow I'm going to have a better tempo.   
 Q.  Do you have a goal for the day?  
SO YEON RYU: For tomorrow, I know I have like three shots back right now.  Anything can happen at the final round.  I really want to bring out my A game tomorrow and I want to win.   
 Q.  Three shots, five players.  Do you feel confident that you can make that up?  
SO YEON RYU: I think as long as I stay focused on my game, I think I can beat them.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT