KINGSMILL CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY JTBC
May 16, 2015
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Played pretty well on the front nine; what are your on the back nine?
SO YEON RYU:   Actually, you know, I know was pretty boring scorecard the back nine, but still I hit it pretty great.

Q.   Hit it pretty great all day. 
SO YEON RYU:   Yes, yes.   Like if I compare to last two round, probably my tee shot, iron shot was best.
Today I think pin position was a bit tricky so I was a bit struggle with read the line.
Once again, I a, happy with my stroke and happy with my swing, so I cannot see any negative thing in the back nine.   I know score is different, but I don't want to say it was bad back nine. 

Q.   Yesterday you talked about your mental approach.   You had a late tee times.   A lot of people had a late tee time.   What is your approach coming into the round when you have so much time to kill?
SO YEON RYU:   You know what?   Actually yesterday I woke up quite early.   I went to bed 9:00 p.m. and woke up 8:30.   I took a really long sleep and had breakfast with my mom.
This place is such a beautiful place.   I was walk with my mom and had a really great conversation with my mom how beautiful this place is how blessed my life is.
You know, it's such a really lucky to have really great job.   I mean, good, like professional golfer career, and I can be in great spots every weeks.
Make me like relax rather than like worry about the tournament, that type of stuffs.   So I know it was really late tee times, so I didn't a lot have chance to think a lot of things.   What I did this morning was just enjoy this beautiful place.

Q.   You sound really at peace and relaxed going into tomorrow.   You're in a good place mentally. 
SO YEON RYU:   You know what?   As I said, last couple weeks I was bit struggle with my game.   I wasn't even close to like win a tournament.
Finally now I'm in contention, so it feels really great to be in contention again.   I really exciting to heading tomorrow.

Q.   Did it just come suddenly to you, your game returning, or do you feel it was a process and it was gradually coming back or...
SO YEON RYU:   I think just after I went to see my sister, you know, I feel a bit more relaxed.   I was able to not think about the golf and I was bit more think about my family and how good my life is.
And especially after I met Ian Baker‑Finch I'm a bit more kind to me.   On the golf course it was bit easier to accept my bad shots so I more think about next shot rather than keep blame myself.
So I think last weeks my trip was really helpful to all my relaxation.

Q.   Was it a dance or music recital?
SO YEON RYU:   She is violinist, so music recital.   Yeah, it was incredible.   So I really proud of her and really thankful to have wonderful sister.

Q.   Is she younger or older?
SO YEON RYU:   She's younger than me.

Q.   And she's in Ohio. 
SO YEON RYU:   Yeah, she's in Ohio.   She going to (indiscernible) next week.

Q.   From? 
SO YEON RYU:   From Oberlin College.

Q.   What's the key to closing strong on this course? 
SO YEON RYU:   You know what?   Actually, this golf course, we have to able to hit a lot of shape shot, fade shot, draw shot, because all the hole is really different.
Also is really big different where ball finish after tee shot.   For example, first hole today, pin was really left side, so if hit to the right side we have more chance to get close to pin.
So I would say absolutely we have to make a lot of putt, but more about the shot. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT