KINGSMILL CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY JTBC
May 15, 2015
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  SO YEON RYU:   I shot 2‑Under, then I made a three birdies and one bogey.   I was look forward to make two bogey‑free round in a row, but unfortunately I made a bogey at the 17.  
Then, to be honest, my shot is not that really great, but really good thing is when I had a chance I made pretty much everything.   So I need to working on bit more long game after this.  
   
 Q.   Pretty strong up and down right here.   
SO YEON RYU:   It was.  
   
 Q.   That was a tough bump and run, wasn't it?  
SO YEON RYU:   Yeah.   The thing is, well, to be honest I was bit struggle with my game last couple weeks.   Then last week I meet Ian Baker‑Finch, which is British Open champion, and his advice was just be kind to me and just enjoy it.  
I knew that situation was really tough one, and if I was going to make up and down it was going to be wonderful up and down.   So I just think myself, Okay, this is challenging, but if I'm going to make it I'm going to be really proud of myself.  
So I really kept thinking positive way.   I think his advice was really helpful to me.   So far really enjoyed my game.  
   
 Q.   How different was the course today?  
SO YEON RYU:   Actually last two years the course was pretty wet because of the like hard rain, but this year the course setup is perfect.  
Greens firm enough and fast enough as well, so this is absolutely my one of the favorite stop.   
   
 Q.   After last year's finish here, I believe you were are tied for fifth.   You said this in one of your favorite stops.   Do you come here with even added confidence given how well you've performed here?  
SO YEON RYU:   Yeah, yeah, absolutely.   You know, when you feels like you really enjoy the golf course you can play well.  
Then especially a lot of spectators coming out, a lot of people supporting me, so I feel always really happy to play this golf course, and really help to my result as well.  
   
 Q.   What were a few of your best shots today?   
SO YEON RYU:   I would say last hole up and down; that third shot was pretty tough one, so it was really hard to judge.   But I really trust myself and I visualize it really well.   
So I would say last hole, my chip shot.  
   
 Q.   You mentioned you weren't happy with your play the last three weeks.   Was it your ball striking that you weren't happy with?  
SO YEON RYU:   No, actually my ball striking was pretty good.   I just putted not really well.   If I look back, I don't think my technique has a problem, but thing is just my mind was problem.  
Just, you know, like I think this is my fourth year on the LPGA, and last three years I've been playing very consistent.   So I kind of think myself I have to finish top 10 every weeks, that kind of stuff.   That it makes me not really enjoy the golf.   Just think about the result.  
Oh, if I cannot make a top 10 what do I do, that type of stuff.   So now I more enjoy the game and more enjoy the golf and really fun to watch all the creative shot.  
So I look forward keep this behavior.  
   
 Q.   Do you try to keep your mind off it?  
SO YEON RYU:   Yes, yes.   
   
 Q.   You stay busy?   
SO YEON RYU:   Just be kind to me.   Even when I hit the missed shot, Okay, I hit the missed shot.   I accept it.   So what's going to do next?   
Before when I hit a really bad shot I just keep blaming.   What the hell is this shot?   Why you hit that bad shot?   That type of stuff, so...  
   
 Q.   In that regard are you almost a prisoner of your own success?   You've had so much success you set the expectations so high.   
SO YEON RYU:   You know, the other thing is one of my really close friend is Inbee Park, former, you know, No. 1 champion.   I'm for sure every LPGA player want to became No. 1 player in the world someday; so do I.  
So that kind of thing makes me keep make my goal go higher and higher.   But I believe if I keep enjoying my golf I can became a No. 1 player of golf in the world.  
   
 Q.   Did you seek out Baker‑Finch?   How did that session come about?  
SO YEON RYU:   Well, my caddie is Australian and quite close with the Ian Baker‑Finch.   I believe he was one of the really great putter players, so I really needed his advice.  
But thing is he told me my technique, my stroke and everything was so great, so he just more taught me more how to read the green, how was the good behavior to start the great putt player.  
I really enjoyed a conversation with him.   He just more talking about how enjoy my life and how I enjoy my golf rather than how can I play well.  
   
 Q.   And when was that?   
SO YEON RYU:   Oh, last week.  
   
 Q.   Where?   
SO YEON RYU:   West Palm Beach.   He lives in West Palm Beach.   My younger sister is in Ohio right now, so I went to her recital then went to West Palm and then coming here.   
   
 Q.   So solid first two days.   What's been the keys to both good rounds so far?  
SO YEON RYU:   Yeah, yesterday I had a bogey‑free round; today I was expecting another bogey‑free round, but I had one bogey.   But 36 holes one bogey is still not bad start.  
I really happy that I didn't miss any short putt.   I been missing a lot of short putt last couple weeks, which is very positive.   Most positive thing is I really enjoy the game on the golf course.   I just look forward to playing another good game next two days.  
   
 Q.   This is an event that a lot of the players really like coming back to.   For you, what's your reasoning for really liking to many come here?  
SO YEON RYU:   You know what, first of all, golf course is just perfect.   We really enjoy playing this golf course, and all the course setup and course condition is perfect.   We can staying in this resort, which is really beautiful.  
Then every year is all the lots of spectators coming out and supporting us, which is really good thing.   I do love seafood, which this place is perfect for seafood place.  
I want to say perfect course.   Just perfectly suit for me.  
   
 Q.   For you this year has kind of been a little bit up and down.   What's been clicking this week that maybe wasn't before?  
SO YEON RYU:   Yeah, I met Ian Baker‑Finch last week.   Actually I wanted to take the lesson, a putter lesson, because I've been struggle with my putting.   
Then, yeah, of course we been working ‑‑ I mean, I did working with putting with Ian Baker‑Finch, but I think bit more important thing was he taught me how ‑‑ he advise me to how I enjoy my golf and my life.   
So I think I just turn out really quickly I could really great behavior on the golf course that it become a really great golf.  
So I would say positive behavior then kind to me.  
   
 Q.   Awesome.   So what are you going to focus on in the next two days?   Still a lot of golf.   
SO YEON RYU:   Maybe, to be honest, my shot that great today and yesterday, which is I can say a more positive thing, because even my shot wasn't great I still able to shot under par.   
So I'm going to do bit more working my iron shot, and I look forward to having a sharp shot tomorrow.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT