CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 21, 2014
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Rough finish there. 
SO YEON RYU:   Yeah, it was, but actually today my condition wasn't really great.   Actually since yesterday I had a little stomach ache and I couldn't eat, so my body condition was not 100%.
Honestly today my shot condition was off.   I just hit it everywhere.   But I stayed really patient, so I think that's why I could made a couple birdies.
So the closing wasn't that great closing, but I still happy with what I did.   My motivate is just if I choose something, just try my best with the choice.
I think I did really great job around that.   I'm pretty happy with it.

Q.   What happened on 18?   Ball go in the bush?   In the hazard; is that right? 
SO YEON RYU:   Yeah.   You know, wind is coming left to right.   Pin position was left, and left of the pin was a hazard.
I was aim to the pin then hit it just a little cut.   You know, after that, wind's naturally going to push it to the right.   I thought it's going to finish the right side of the pin, but unfortunately I hit a little fat and ball start to go left.
So finish a little bit left of green.   I hit the ground and kicked it left, so it finish in the hazard.   Sometimes just bad shot.   We need to accept it.   We cannot hit good shot every shot.
I'm still happy with my chip shot at the fourth shot.   Still okay, yeah.

Q.   Was the ball playable in the hazard? 
SO YEON RYU:   Well, it was kind of playable, but still I cannot hit it to the green.   That's why I just release it. 

Q.   You like, Just take a drop?
SO YEON RYU:   Yeah.   I think it wasn't really big different. 

Q.   Still pretty pleased with your round today?   4‑under; probably only going to be three, four back heading into the weekend?
SO YEON RYU:   Three or four shot is still not a big gap.   We still have the two rounds.   Looks like my game is not really bad, so I'm still ready to chase down the leader.
So now I'm going to work on some my long game and look forward to hit the low score tomorrow and next day. 

Q.   How much are you thinking about the Race to the CME Globe and the $1 million? 
SO YEON RYU:   Yeah, it's definitely give me the lot of motivate, so that's why I keep fighting.
It's end of the season.   A lot of player can be exhausted.   I still have a goal, and that give me a lot of motivate.
So I'm really happy to be I'm still in contention to Race to CME Globe. 

Q.   And you're only one back of Michelle.   Of the top nine, you're in second right now.   Got to be a pretty good place to be going into the weekend, right?
SO YEON RYU:   Yeah, but thing is, if I win this tournament no matter what I'm going to win Race to CME Globe.   So I don't want to think about if someone is finish this, I have to finish this.   I don't want to think about that. 
I just want to think about the winning and just think about my current shot. 

Q.   I know you said that you want to start a foundation.   You've got a little more to play for this week then, huh? 
SO YEON RYU:   Yeah, if I won Race to CME Globe I think I've got a really great like base money for the foundation.   But I'm still think about what I really want to do.   I really don't know what I'm going to do.
I hope I can make a great opportunity to make my foundation.

Q.   What are some of the things you're considering? 
SO YEON RYU:   Well, absolutely something about the golf.   These days what I really interested in is like fireman, you know, like firemans, a lot happen to fireman.   If somebody passed way the left families is really sad.   If the dads pass away the moms still need to work.   In that case, the kids have to be themself in house.
So I just give them to opportunity to playing golf after school type of thing.   That's the most interesting thing so far, but don't know.

Q.   You were talking about going to Africa at some point. 
SO YEON RYU:   Yeah, but I have to play Korean against Japan tournament, and that date was exactly same date as going to Africa, so I cannot go this year.   Unfortunately I cannot go this year, but I am looking forward to go next year.

Q.   What were you going to do there?
SO YEON RYU:   I'm going to following with Betsy King.   She found a school for the kids, and I heard she also host a pro‑am for the raising money for the Africa.

Q.   Okay. 
SO YEON RYU:   So I think it's pretty much for education.

Q.   Where in Africa?
SO YEON RYU:   This year Zambia.

Q.   What are your off‑season plans?
SO YEON RYU:   I am going to play Korea against Japan tournament.   After that I am going back to Korea and no golf and staying with family three weeks and more work out. 
This year I was feel like I was not enough strong for the four rounds.   So my like biggest goal is make my body stronger than right now. 
After I stay in Korea three weeks I'm going to back in L.A. beginning of the year and then prepare the first tournament in Florida.

Q.   What would you do with $1 million? 
SO YEON RYU:   Yeah, as I say, maybe if I got $1 million I have to be...

Q.   I know you said some would go to the foundation, but what else would you... 
SO YEON RYU:   Definitely something for house.

Q.   Get a new house?
SO YEON RYU:   No.   I got my house in 2012, but these days I really start to interesting in interior.   You know, all the plate, the lamp, that type of thing.   I already bought two furniture.

Q.   What kind of furniture did you get?
SO YEON RYU:   Just like little chair for the powder room, that type of stuff.   Yeah, I really look forward to get new furniture from the $1 million.

Q.   You big into the decorating?
SO YEON RYU:   I really like it, yes.   Yes. 

Q.   How was Inbee's wedding? 
SO YEON RYU:   It was really cool.   I never really been to my close friend's wedding, so it was kind of like awkward and really happy. 
Before start the wedding actually Inbee's husband just proposed to Inbee, so it was really fun experience.

Q.   Okay.   Perfect.   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT