CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 20, 2014
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Pretty good opening round outside of the double bogey.   
SO YEON RYU:   Yeah, well, you know, today my shot and putting was pretty great.   Like, to be honest, green speed is very inconsistent so I missed a couple birdie putt.   
But today I had so many birdie opportunities, so I'm really happy with my long game.   Unfortunately I made a double bogey at the 16.   My bunker shot was quite hard one.   The thing is that bunker was really firm and I really couldn't expect what's going on and how it bounced.  
Unfortunately it bounced really bad late and I hit it like 40 yards.   So I made a double bogey.   But I had a couple lucky shot, one lucky shot, so just happens.   Just accept it and keeping more practice and ready to gear it up.  
   
 Q.   You were able to bounce back a little bit with the birdie.   
SO YEON RYU:   Yeah.   I made a birdie on the 17, which is really good.   It means I never gave up.   
So I look forward to playing next three days.  
   
 Q.   Do you think about the $1 million at all?  
SO YEON RYU:   Oh, absolutely.   Everybody think about the $1 million.   Especially I'm not close to Player of the Year or Vare Trophy, that kind of year.   
End of the season we can be exhausted and we can be lost the motivate a lot.   Race to CME Globe still give you a lot of motivation, so I think that's why I still have a lot of passion and still really enjoy the tournament.  
   
 Q.   How exciting is it to have the $1 million purse at the end?   
SO YEON RYU:   You know, it's something always really happy to make another achieved goal.   So I think it makes huge different for us.  
Even the last week a lot of caddie and players talking about like if you finish top nine in Race to CME Globe we still have a chance to $1 million, so we need to play well at Lorena Ochoa's tournament.   
So that just give me a lot of motivation and it makes more exciting.   So I really happy we have got really great opportunity and really happy we have a really great system.  
   
 Q.   That is exactly what they hoping for, motivation at the end of the year.   
SO YEON RYU:   Yeah, it works well.   Yeah, yeah, absolutely.   We never had this kind of opportunity.   Everything is just all about the Player of the Year or Vare Trophy or Rookie of the year, so now we have something more kind of started interested in, which makes tour more happier and more exciting.   
   
 Q.   Think the conditions will be easier the next couple days?   
SO YEON RYU:   You mean tomorrow and...   
   
 Q.   Yeah.   It was pretty windy today, wasn't it?  
SO YEON RYU:   Good thing is Florida weather is hot and humid, but last couple days s super cold and freezing.   To me today weather was just awesome.   Still freezing, but a lot better than cold.  
Weather supposed to be really sunny next couple days, so if it's wind calm and weather is hot, ball can be going more farther and it's bit more easy to play.  
So maybe if weather is going to be better than this a lot of players can be playing ‑‑ make more lower score than today.   So we will see.   
   
 Q.   Four players‑ you're one of them‑ with the chance to finish with a below‑70 average.   First time in tour history.   
SO YEON RYU:   Really.  
   
 Q.   How cool is that?  
SO YEON RYU:   Oh, it means that every player has been improved a lot.   We had so many experience and we had so many tournaments, so it means we still have a chance to learn something.  
You know, we always competing each other.   Really good thing is like 10 years ago not many players really competing.   Now these says at least 20 players always competing for the winning.   
So I think that type of thing make to us improve the golf game.   I look forward to average lower than 70.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT