FUBON LPGA TAIWAN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY TAIWAN MOBILE
October 30, 2014
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   6‑under today for you.   What was working for you out there?  
SO YEON RYU:   Well, honestly, 6‑under is a good score but I had a really bad finish.   So 6‑under is not enough good score to me.   But the thing is today, my putting really worked well.   But I missed so many fairways.   
Like my driver wasn't that great.   So I think that 18, I holed my tee shot, I thought it was a good shot but the wind never pushed it to the right, so it finished in the hazard and I made a double.   So it wasn't a really good finish.  
Still, when I hit it in the rough, I still made a lot of good iron shots and I made an eagle at the 11th hole.   So I'm really happy with what I'm doing with the iron shots in putting without driver.   
   
 Q.   And then you had that stretch in your round where you went 7‑under in a seven‑hole stretch.   What was going through your mind during that?   
SO YEON RYU:   Well, maybe my goal was just to make a double‑digit under in the first round, maybe it was quite a really big help to make another one this week but unfortunately I couldn't make it.   I finished 6‑under.   But still, when I was on fire, I just think about, okay, I'm going to make double‑digits under today.  
   
 Q.   So you finished not the way you'd want to, but you still had a good round.   What's your approach going into tomorrow and the rest of the week?   
SO YEON RYU:   Now I'm going to work a bit more on my driver.   I think that if I finish more fairways with my driver, I think I'm still going to make not a lot of birdies because now my putting feels really well.   So I really look forward to make a lot of birdies.   
   
 Q.   You've had a pretty good Asia stretch.   What do you enjoy about coming over here and playing here?  
SO YEON RYU:   Well, you know what, Asia, everything is really similar to my country in Korea.   It's similar but different.   So it's really fun to see what's the different and what's similar.   I'd like to try a lot of different kinds of food, so when I'm playing the Asian swing, I love to see another culture and another food.   
   
 Q.   Based off that, what's the best thing you've found in Taiwan this week?  
SO YEON RYU:   Well, I think it's definitely dim sum, especially we had a Pro‑Am party on Tuesday night, and I had so many great food there, a lot of dumplings and a lot of different kind of rice.     
Then actually especially Taiwan has a lot of different kind of dessert.   It's not like cake.   It's not like just fruit.   It's something very special.   They make really great dessert with red beans, that kind of thing.   My answer is Taiwan is dessert.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT