U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP 2017
July 14, 2017
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  It was a miserable today.  I was miserable watching you.  You had to be miserable out there.  You hit the hardest holes at about the same time the weather was at its worst?  
SO YEON RYU: To be honest, the front nine was quite tough to play, a lot of rain.  Usually when we got the rain, ball flight not really long.  Somehow today, sometimes ball flight normal, sometimes not.  It was hard to judge the distance.  So it was really hard to judge the distance.  So I had some ball in the hazard and made some big number.  I think I even with the tough condition, I manage it pretty great.   
 Q.  It would have been simple after the double to say, you know what, this isn't it.  You battled back and played your way back into this thing.  What was the mindset after that?  
SO YEON RYU: Well, I think I played a U.S. Open many enough to understand about this tournament.  This is U.S. Open, anything can happen.  Even after I made a double, I was like double, okay, it's U.S. Women's Open, a double could happen but it's not a big deal.  I can make up nicely.  Let's play well.   
As you said, it's really easy to give up after double, but this tournament is not that easy one to give up.  I really want to keep fight back to playing well.   
 Q.  Softer conditions and better weather tomorrow.  You are expecting more birdies tomorrow?  
SO YEON RYU: Well, yeah, but I'm expecting to have some really tough competition as well.  I don't think USGA is going to let us play a low round.  I'm going to expect a tough pin positions.  That means I better have a really good shot.   
Today I pulled a lot of shots.  Like tomorrow, I'm expecting to have better shot condition and hope I can make enough birdie, as well.   
 Q.  Four back with two rounds to go.  Still in this thing?  
SO YEON RYU: Yeah, for sure.  This is only Friday.  Anything could happen at the weekend, as well.  I'm going to do my best and let's see what is going to come.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT