SIME DARBY LPGA MALAYSIA
October 10, 2014
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MODERATOR:   I would like to welcome So Yeon into the interview room.   
So Yeon, yesterday 66; 65 today.   How are you feeling right now?   
SO YEON RYU:   Well, especially I'm very (indiscernible) for this golf course I think, especially front nine.   I shot 5‑under through seven holes, so, you know, the kind of thing just make me more easy.  
But thing is it's really hot today, so back nine my energy level was so low so my game wasn't enough great if I compared to front nine.   
But still, 66 and 65 is good score for under my belt, so I'm pretty happy with.  
MODERATOR:   Let's talk about the two points you brought up.   One, your energy level.   You weren't feeling very good at the beginning of the week.   How are you feeling now?   
SO YEON RYU:   You know, when I'm coming to Malaysia I always expect really hot weather, but Monday through Wednesday it wasn't really hot.   
I thought, Oh, maybe it's going to be cold.   Well, you know, since yesterday heat is coming up and my body condition is not 100%.   So I think the heat makes me a little tired so that's why my energy was been going low.   
But good thing is a lot of Malaysia fans coming out and cheer us, and also some of the Korean fans coming out and cheering me.  
It was really big help for boost my energy.  
MODERATOR:   Birdied five of your first seven holes.   Can you take us through those birdies?   You gave yourself plenty of opportunities, didn't you?   
SO YEON RYU:   Yeah.   Yesterday I was starting with a birdie, so I was kind of really good motivate to going to play well.  
Then today was I had a par on first hole; second hole I made a really long birdie putt.   
Then after that I kind of motivate my confidence and I keep making great shots and great putts.   
Especially 5th hole is one of the hardest Par‑3 for me, but I almost made a hole‑in‑one so I made an easy birdie.  
Pretty much 5 hole my shot was really great; I putted pretty well.  
MODERATOR:   Overall this year how would you describe your performance?   
SO YEON RYU:   You know what?   Thing is, these days my psychologist and I found our my problem is I want to control everything on the golf course.   I'm human being.   I cannot control everything.  
I try to do and choose what I can do on the golf course and what cannot control it.   If I choose what I can control I'm just focused to what I can control.   These days that makes my more help to more enjoy the golf.  
So after that, I think I'm playing pretty consistent.   So I was just try my season so far enjoy my life and enjoy my golf.   
MODERATOR:   Very good.   Questions for So Yeon?   
   
 Q.   You must very happy with your performance.   
SO YEON RYU:   Yeah.   Well, actually last week my shot was just, Oh, my God, just horrible, awful.  
I have my coach this week in here, and I've been working something with him since Monday.  
So I change my (indiscernible) position and I change something about my routine thing.   After that, my shot's coming back.   So looks like my shots is in really great shape, so I really look forward to see another great shot next two days.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT