SIME DARBY LPGA MALAYSIA
October 9, 2014
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   So I don't know, I gather you can an investor in the technology.   Tell us a little bit more about that.   
SO YEON RYU:   You know what, when I was young I was always really happy and able to play golf, but one thing that made me unhappy is when I introduced myself that I play golf, my friends in all Korea all said, maybe you're living in a different world than us because a couple years ago golf was not really easy to start in Korea because not many golf courses near capital city and not many golf ranges near like downtown.   It was really hard to approach golf, so that's why a lot of people said I'm living a little different.   But after the golf simulator business, people start to more play golf, and golf population is going to increase a lot.   
After Golf Zone's entry into the industry, I started getting involved in the golf business, so now I have a golf simulator shop.   I have two different ones in Seoul, so now I'm pretty much involved with golf, and I'm really happy to see Golf Zone start the business really well but also kind of really good affect to increase golf fans for us.   This is really my personal opinion, but I've seen chairman Kim maybe since 2008 or 2009, then I was always impressed how much he has passion about golf.   When I talk about golf with him, he always is happy and he knows about golf a lot.   Just as my opinion, he's the leader of Golf Zone, so it means Golf Zone can be really great marketing partner for the LPGA, so I look forward to seeing LPGA and Golf Zone make a huge difference for the future.   
   
 Q.   You're on a hot streak at the moment.   You won in Canada at the end of August, you came third in Portland classic, you're one shot off the lead today.   Tell us about your round today.   
SO YEON RYU:   Well, this is definitely one of my favorite stops on the Asian swing.   The golf course is fabulous, and (inaudible) to golf.   They support so many junior golfers, so I feel always special to be here.   Before I won the Canadian Open, I had a kind of big turn of like winning drought, so I don't want to make another two‑year winning drought, so I really look forward to making another win in Malaysia.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT