PORTLAND CLASSIC PRESENTED BY CAMBIA HEALTH SOLUTIONS
August 30, 2014
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   One back of the lead heading into tomorrow.   Gotta feel pretty good about that, second chance to win in two weeks.  
SO YEON RYU:   Well, yeah.   It's a pretty good chance to me, but if I think about my golf game today, it wasn't like perfect game, but still, I'm in contention, so I feel pretty good about that.   
This green is really quick, so it's really hard to judge the speed, so today I was struggled with matching up my speed with the line.   
But otherwise like my shot and my chipping and other game looks pretty good.   So feels good to go play tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   What would it mean to win two times in a row to you?  
SO YEON RYU:   Well, you know, I'm waiting so much time, it means I learned so many things.   So if I could make a win two weeks in a row, it makes me learn a lot of things, and how can I say?   Spend some good ability from learning things.   
   
 Q.   Why was it playing so much tougher today?   It looked a lot tougher.   It looked like Peoples scores weren't quite as good?  
SO YEON RYU:   Well, it's really tough to read the line.   Obviously we're not really used to it with this green speed.   So it's really hard to adjust to read the line and other thing is green is not as soft.   So it keep releasing.   
And other last thing is, you know, if we miss the tee shot, these trees quite really big, so lined every hour of our way.   So I think that's why the players struggled with that.  
   
 Q.   Heading into today, are you surprised that the lead is only 11 at the end of the day?  
SO YEON RYU:   Yeah.   Actually, I thought it was going to be more than that, because today also I had so many chances, but I missed a lot.   So it means other players can make a lot of birdies, but it looks like they are also struggling with putting or whatever.   So I'm really surprised with the score.  
   
 Q.   Were you pretty pleased though that you were able to salvage the round after starting 2‑over?  
SO YEON RYU:   Well, yeah, actually, you know what, after I made two bogeys, you know, at the third and fourth, kind of really big disappointed, because I thought I have to make a lot of birdies to catch up the lead.   
So I was a bit disappointed, but I was keep like thinking about not like winning thing, but more like let's going to be close.   It's the leader.   Meaning I still have a chance tomorrow.   I think that kind of mindset helped me a lot with the rest of the ground.  
   
 Q.   Suzann won here last year.   She's the leader going into the final round.   How tough is she to beat out here?  
SO YEON RYU:   Suzann is always tough to competing.   She's one of the very aggressive players on the tour.   And she's long here, and she is always number like Top 5 in the world.   So it's really hard to competing with like top player.   But you know, always feels great to playing with the top player and if I beat her, it's going to be more great.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT