PORTLAND CLASSIC PRESENTED BY CAMBIA HEALTH SOLUTIONS
August 29, 2014
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   66 today.   Gotta be pretty happy with that.
SO YEON RYU:   Yeah, actually today my tee shot wasn't consistent, but still I shot 66, so I'm pretty happy with that. 
Good thing is my putting speed control is really great.   Well, actually this putting green is really, really quick.   It's quite big difference than last week.   So I was a bit trouble reading the lines and match up the speed yesterday, but today my putting feel is a lot better than yesterday, and it worked well.

Q.   Chasing I.K. this week, another friend on the top of the leaderboard.   Is that cool to see?
SO YEON RYU:   Well, you know, as always, like no matter who always have a really great competitor, you know, for the weekend.   And other good thing is, you know, like now either is I.K. Kim which is my close friend, and actually, today we planning to going to have dinner together. 
Yeah, but I'm pretty sure it's going to be really tough competition, but also she going to be really great competitor.

Q.   You led all week last week.   You gotta chase this weekend.   How is that different?
SO YEON RYU:   You know, I haven't win any tournament before last week, so I had to do a lot of things after I made a win.   I had to do a lot of interview and that kind of stuff, and my mind was still, it wasn't really quiet.   I'm still was excited, so I wasn't really 100 percent focused again yesterday.   But today I totally tune out that and it feels really great.   So I look forward to another win this week.

Q.   You said you didn't have a goal after the win.   What's your goal now?   Win again?
SO YEON RYU:   My goal is actually make another win, and the biggest one is I want to win a major tournament, which is Evian Championship, and my other goal is win the Hana KB Championship, which my sponsor host a tournament and that's the only one LPGA event in Korea.   So I want to show the really great golf it my Korean fans. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT