PORTLAND CLASSIC PRESENTED BY CAMBIA HEALTH SOLUTIONS
August 26, 2014
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MEGHAN FLANAGAN:   I just want to open up and ask just how has the past 48 hours been?   I know you've been waiting for this one for a very long time. 
SO YEON RYU:   You know, one thing, I haven't won any tournament the last two years, so the last two years was like really tough time to me that I was really like strongly needing my winning. 
And after I made it feels like I lost everything, because I really like hardly wanted to win the tournament and I made it.   So it feels like I already reached my goal and I already finished my career, because that kind of feel ‑‑ like after I won the tournament, a lot of interviewer asked me what's your goal this year.   And I said, you know what, my goal was only make winning, so after I make it, I cannot think anything. 
So last 48 hours I was try to figure it out, like what's my goal, what I'm going to do in the future.   Then I just tried to feel, oh, I make a win.   Finally I made it. 
And I just, you know, I just keeping more think about how many people has helped me out, too, I make this one.   So last 48 hour was like big thankful moment for me.
MEGHAN FLANAGAN:   So at the beginning of the year your goal was just to win.
SO YEON RYU:   Just win.
MEGHAN FLANAGAN:   Just win one.
SO YEON RYU:   Yes.   No matter what, just make a win. 
MEGHAN FLANAGAN:   And so since then, you've been reevaluating.   What is the change, just win another one or two, win a major? 
SO YEON RYU:   You know, the only thing is when I was in contention I was always scared because kind of like fail experience make everything scary.   So when I was in contention, I was kind of, oh, if I'm going to lose this one, then I know it will give me a lot of damage.   So I was kind of scary about it, so sometime I just don't want to play the final group, the final round, but I think after I make this one, I've got more confidence, and I could be like be more positive fighter. 

Q.   Is that different?   I mean you won the U.S. Open, like probably the biggest tournament on the tour.   After you won that, you didn't think like, oh, I'm on my way now, I should win all the time?
SO YEON RYU:   You know what, thing is when I won the U.S. Women's Open, I had zero expectation of winning the thing, because I came from Korea.   I wasn't even LPGA members.   So you know, when I was at the playoff, I was just so excited to I made a playoff, no matter if I can make a win or not.   But after that, you know, like people's expectation level is going up, and also my expectation level is going high. 
Then my rookie season was quite fantastic for me because I had a lot of Top 10 finish, and I won once as a rookie.   So it was make me‑‑ how can I explain, like make my expectations levels just going so high. 
Then I‑‑ actually, 2013 and 2014 my golf game is so improved.   I mean if I compare it to 2011 and '12, my golf level is way better than 2011 and '12, but I couldn't win any tournament. 
So after that, I think my golf level is really high.   But why I cannot win the tournament?   What can I improve?   Then my answer was I cannot improve anything because I'm pretty sure I'm ready.
But if you cannot improve anything, then if you can't win anything, then you know, what can I do?   Just that kind of thing just make me more scary, just not really helpful to going through.

Q.   Is that all in your own mind or is it in the media or where does that come from?
SO YEON RYU:   I think it's pretty much both, but it's more like myself.   It's also, you know, sometimes when I finish second, you know sports is always ‑‑ people remember the first stage, you know.   Nobody remember the second stage. 
Then people start to call me like unlucky player or, you know, I'm not really strong enough at the final round.   That kind of thing just make me‑‑ just‑‑ it's kind of just I think myself, oh, maybe I'm a loser, you know, that kind of thing.   I think it's pretty much both, like media or people and my thinking. 
Then sometimes just people ask me, I know you play really well, but you couldn't win any tournaments, so what does that mean?   How can I answer that question, you know. 
I think it's pretty much both, my thinking and people's thinking.

Q.   Because you were‑‑ I mean you've been one of the best players.   You've got a lot of Top 10s every year.   You almost never miss the cut. 
SO YEON RYU:   (Laughs).

Q.   You know, but in your mind, it was more about the win? 
SO YEON RYU:   Yeah.   You know, I mean I always waiting the win, and winning is the best one.   If I had any experience about winning anything, maybe I'm not this much like expect winning, this much think about the winning thing.   But I know how good it is and I know how honest it is.   I think that's why I was more want it. 

Q.   So what did you‑‑ what happened last week that was different?
SO YEON RYU:   Last week, actually my Coach Ian Triggs was in the LPGA Championship, then I was talk with him.   Then I talked to him really honestly, Ian, I think my game has so much improved and I don't think I can do anything right now.   But I cannot win a tournament the last two years, it means I cannot win forever. 
Then he told me, So Yeon, I know your game is really great.   I know your golf is really great, but thing is some other player just had a really great week.   That's why you couldn't win.   I mean compared to other player, you didn't get good long enough. 
So I just kind of accept it.   Okay.   Important thing is I just do myself‑‑ I just do my best.   Don't think about the winning thing.   So last week I just forget about the winning thing and I just focus on my just one shot.   If I'm on the teeing ground, I just think about the tee shot.   If I'm on the putting green, I just think about putting thing.
Actually before, I keep looking at the leaderboard.   I keep like comparing to other players.   I think I didn't do anything last week.   I can promise this.   I think that's why I could win the tournament.

Q.   Okay.   So you just focused on what you're doing?
SO YEON RYU:   Yes.   I always just think about myself.   I didn't think any player.   I didn't pay attention to anything.

Q.   Okay.   But before that you would pay attention to some of the other players?
SO YEON RYU:   I did, yes.   I always compare to everybody.   You know, if somebody play well, I just, hmm, I think my swing is better than her, why I cannot win a tournament.   You know, that kind of thing just make me‑‑ you know, I think other people is not really important.   Important thing is me.   I was at the little wrong direction.

Q.   Did you put more pressure on yourself because Inbee kept winning and you're so close to her, seeing her win each week?
SO YEON RYU:   You know what, actually no, I didn't.   Thing is maybe Korean fans could be because, you know, Inbee won six times last year but I didn't win any tournament.   But still, my world ranking was in Top 10, so people say, you know what, you play really consistent, but you haven't win a tournament, so you need to make a win.   See Inbee, Inbee won six times and she's No. 1 in the world right now.   Yeah. 
I think people try to make me compare with Inbee and competing with Inbee, but I never do that, because I think Inbee had a well‑deserved to take No. 1 position.   That's why I'm not really competing with Inbee.   I more respect Inbee. 
One thing I really love Inbee is she just doing everything for her happiness.   So I'm inspired to her, but I'm not competing to her. 

Q.   How cool was that to have Na Yeon and her finish second and third last week?   You three took the top 3 spots. 
SO YEON RYU:   You know, Inbee is always‑‑ not always, but she won many times, and she always played pretty consistently.   So I'm not really think about Inbee last week, but I'm more happy with the Na Yeon, because she was a bit struggle with her game.   Not even‑‑ she wasn't even close to win last few months. 
Then after International Crown she lost three matches.   She only won one matches.   After that she was so depressed.   After that our team was really worried about Na Yeon, just you know, we were worried about, oh, if she going to play really bad next couple months, she may be hard to get back to the game. 
But now she looks like every her game is just going back on track and she play really well, so I'm more happy to see Na Yeon's playing.

Q.   Have you had a chance to see the golf course yet?
SO YEON RYU:   I've played today.   This is really nice golf course.   I loved it.   My caddie is Tom, and Tom and I thought, you know, before I came up to the golf course I was super tired and Tom was super tired, but after we see the golf course I'm like, we are totally awake.   This is beautiful place.   (Laughs).
Yes.   Especially, Tom is kind of‑‑ he's golf addict.   His goal is, you know, now he tries to play every golf course, like world ranking top 100 in the world.   So he played St. Andrews and here and every really famous.   That's his goal.   That's how much he loves the golf, and he really loves to play really wonderful golf courses. 
And Tom and I always keep talking about how good this golf course and how good these golf holes.   So I really cannot wait to play in this tournament.   It's going to be a really fun tournament.

Q.   It seems like it might set up good for your game. 
SO YEON RYU:   Yes, yes.   It's more like we need to be creative because it's not just going for some of the holes, dogleg right, dogleg‑left, so we need to be creative players, and I do love that kind of golf course.   So I think it's good for me.

Q.   You've played in Portland only one other time; right?
SO YEON RYU:   Yes, at the Pumpkin Ridge.

Q.   Do you have a feel for the city or like where to go eat or stuff like that?
SO YEON RYU:   The First Look At Nature thing is really great, so I love it.   And I landed here 2 p.m. yesterday, so I haven't much time to look around.   But I'm going to see today afternoon.   So I'm pretty sure I'm going to like it.
MEGHAN FLANAGAN:   I heard you guys have to go get sushi again, you and Na Yeon.
SO YEON RYU:   Yeah.   I need to speak with her.   Thing is Inbee is in Korea and she's shopping for her wedding.   So we miss Inbee this week, but I'm going to talk with I.K. and Na Yeon and having some good food and charging up. 

Q.   This course is a lot different than the other two courses the last two weeks.   They've been a lot smaller greens, a lot tighter fairways.   How much does that change your mindset, if at all, and how much different is this course than the last two?
SO YEON RYU:   The thing is I think this green is much faster than last two weeks, and honestly, last week green was huge. 

Q.   Right. 
SO YEON RYU:   So no matter, if you missed a shot, it's still on the green, but it looks like this green is quite tiny.   I mean some of the green is really big, but still some of the green‑‑ I mean normally the greens are really small.   So I think iron play is really important this week.   So I'm going to be more working on my iron shot and try to not miss every birdie chance. 
MEGHAN FLANAGAN:   Momentum‑wise, how important was it for you to play again this week after a win and trying to take that momentum into the Evian, too? 
SO YEON RYU:   You know, good thing is I was a bit struggle with my putting for a while, but it looks like my putting feels really great.   So I can keep this feeling, I mean I can keep this putting feeling this week.   Then I'm going to have a great rest next week.   Then you know, Evian is huge tournament.   It's become a major tournament.   Before that I always wanted to win the tournament. 
You know, if I stop play after last week, it could be I have a chance to have lost feeling.   But I can keep like continuing this feel.   So I think this tournament is really important to going to play Evian. 
MEGHAN FLANAGAN:   All right.   Anything else? 
SO YEON RYU:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT