CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 23, 2014
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Can you believe how low the scores got? 
SO YEON RYU:   Well, you know, honestly, I was really try to not look at the leaderboard.   So I just realize after I shot 9‑under today then I'm only 4 shot, you know, leading by it. 
Amazing that the girls played so well.   Also if I going to win this tournament, it is going to be more honor.

Q.   Does it feel good that you can shoot 9‑under and you still have a four‑stroke lead given how consistently you've played?
SO YEON RYU:   Yeah, honestly, my starting wasn't that great.   I made a bogey at the third hole that I think about, okay, let's forget about the bogey. 
Then today I'm going to need five more birdies.   After that I'm going to be happy.   Then I made a fifth birdie at the 16th, and I made a sixth birdie at the 17.   I played better than what I thought. 
The other happy thing is that if you make a birdie at 17, CP is going to donate $5,000.00 to the Children's Health Foundation.   I'd really be happy to be part of that.

Q.   What is that threesome going to be like tomorrow?   You're good friends. 
SO YEON RYU:   You know, it's all my good friends.   Na is really a great friend. 
Outside of the golf course, we are really good friends.   Inside the golf course, everybody is a fighter.   I'm pretty sure we're going to play really good golf tomorrow.

Q.   You said you didn't take a look at the leaderboard at all.   Yet someone crawls within one shot of you and someone crawls within two shots of you, you didn't notice any of that?
SO YEON RYU:   I didn't know anything.   I didn't know anything.   I was really strictly avoid leaderboard, because I know if I pay attention to other people's play I cannot pay attention to my game. 
I really wanted to bring A game today, so I didn't look at the leaderboard at all.

Q.   Would you tomorrow at all, especially if your playing partners are playing well?
SO YEON RYU:   Well, you know, if I'm playing with another two competitor, I just automatically know their scores.   So I think it's not really a matter of seeing the scores. 
Just so the other thing is just pay attention to other player's shot or putting, then just focus to my game.

Q.   You are chasing the LPGA record, 26‑under par.   Are you aware of that?   How much pressure does that add? 
SO YEON RYU:   I think my lowest record was 29‑under, when I was 16 at the Asian Games.   If I have a chance, I want to break my current record.   Also, if I can, I want to break another LPGA record.

Q.   Inbee said that you are due for a win.   Would you take that as a compliment?
SO YEON RYU:   Yesterday, I had dinner with Inbee.   Inbee was really highly encouraging me.   It feels great that the world's best player was encouraging me.   She is definitely a really great supporter for me.   So I feel really great.   If I get a champagne from her, it's going to be more awesome.

Q.   Do you have a number in mind tomorrow?
SO YEON RYU:   You know, today my goal was five birdies.   I'm just going to aim for seven birdies tomorrow.

Q.   Or minus 30, right? 
SO YEON RYU:   Yes, yes. 

Q.   Did you go back to the same Shogun restaurant last night?
SO YEON RYU:   Yeah, we did.

Q.   What are your plans for tonight? 
SO YEON RYU:   Don't know yet.   Actually, today my shot wasn't that great, so I'm just going to be more working on my swing.   Then going to think about it.

Q.   What is your routine on a Sunday? 
SO YEON RYU:   Actually, it's no matter if I'm in contention or not, always my routine is the same.   I wake up and stretching and having lunch or breakfast, then came out to the course one and a half hour before, starting with the putting, chipping, then long game, then putting again, then going to tee shot at the first hole. 
It's really great.   The really routine for tomorrow is just being confident. 

Q.   Final question, what would this mean to you to win? 
SO YEON RYU:   I haven't won a tournament in the last two years.   It's a really tough time for me.   If I'm going to win this tournament, I'm going to have a break about that, so I really want to break it.   I really want to stop it.   Kind of like not a great experience.   I just want to make it a really fantastic experience. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT