U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP 2017
July 13, 2017
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Ball striking looked today and it looked like you left a couple out there with the putter.
SO YEON RYU: Yeah, I think that's the reason why I was able to play a bogey-free round.
As you said, like No. 15 and No. 1, I was able to make a birdie.  Like my chip shot was a pretty much easy chip shot, but I couldn't make a birdie.  Hopefully tomorrow I can make more birdies at the par-5 and I just want to repeat like today just bogey-free round again.
Q. We're kind of little surprised at the score, 6-under in a U.S. Open.  That's not unheard of, but it's a little unusual.  What are the conditions like and why is the scoring so good?
SO YEON RYU: I think it's because of -- to be honest, the greens are soft compared to any U.S. Women's Open.  We got a lot of rain the last three days and I heard New Jersey got some rain the last few weeks, as well.  Greens are softer than I expected.
Q. How does this compare to the way the USGA set up Olympia Fields?
SO YEON RYU: To me, like today was like Olympia Fields was a little longer than today.  Today was quite hot.  Even I was struggling to get the right distance because balls started to fly really, really long.  So all the par-5s playing short as well.
Compared to Olympia Fields, green are bit same firmness, but balls just going farther and playing shorter.
Q. Any adjustments you want to work on heading into the rest of the week?
SO YEON RYU: Actually, I'm pretty happy with everything today.  It was really humid and hot this morning.  My energy is pretty low this morning.  Sometimes better to rest than a lot of practice.  I'm play planning to have a plenty of rest and fully charged and ready to go tomorrow again.
Q. How do you pace yourself out there when it's so hot and humid?
SO YEON RYU: Just drink a lot of water.  Try to get an umbrella as much as I can.  Try to stay in the shade.  Try not to thinking too much.  Try to concentrate all the time.  I just need to like save energy.  When I hit the ball, I really focus on everything.  When I'm walking or something, I just try to have fun.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT