CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 21, 2014
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You set a new course record out there.   How did you feel about your game?  
SO YEON RYU:   Yeah, I just heard of it.   I heard it's the low score first round, so I feel really great about that, especially before I'm going to tee it off, when I was warming up my shot was really bad, so I had zero expectation I could play this much low shot, but I played really well, so I'm really happy with what I'm doing today.  
   
 Q.   Do you normally play the way you practice?  
SO YEON RYU:   Sometimes if I hit it really great at the range, my expectation levels go really high then if I miss just one shot I'm really disappointed in myself.   But I think at this stage I had zero expectation, then if I shot really great shot, I got more confidence.   
I mean, warmup is pretty important session, then it could be change a lot of things.   
   
 Q.   Did you look at the leaderboard before you teed off and saw NaYeon, did you see that as something you were shooting for?   
SO YEON RYU:   Yeah, before I teed off, I saw NaYeon's score, that she shot 8‑under, and I thought, wow, she shot really great because I thought this golf course is a really tough golf course.   Greens are massively big.   Also yesterday it was really rainy, so I thought the course is going to be really long to play.   
My goal was maybe 3‑under could be a really great score, but I shot 9‑under, so it feels more happy.  
   
 Q.   We're seeing a lot of low scores today.   What do you attribute to that?  
SO YEON RYU:   You know, we just played a major tournament last week, especially that golf course was really, really long, then the green was kind of really tough one.   Then after that, maybe today they set it up the course to be shorter than last week, so it comes‑‑ it could come from a lot of birdies.  
   
 Q.   Large greens up there, they can have some pretty difficult pin placements, though, come Sunday?  
SO YEON RYU:   Yeah, I think sometimes I'm scared of where they're going to put the pins because this green is quite a tough one, but I had a really great start, so I'm going to be a bit more relaxed.   
   
 Q.   Do you know the name of the place you ate last night?   
SO YEON RYU:   No.   
   
 Q.   But whatever you ate, it was about minus 25 so far with Inbee's score and NaYeon's score and your score.   Was it a good meal?   
SO YEON RYU:   Well, yeah, I had a meal with NaYeon, Inbee and Mi Hyang yesterday.   We just kind of talked to each other to make us relaxed.   Sometimes if you're hanging out with really good friends, it can make you more relaxed and more enjoy the golf.   Today I was really enjoying my golf, then I was thinking I was going to play with NaYeon and Inbee, and that comes from a great friendship.  
   
 Q.   Did Inbee pick up the tab?  
SO YEON RYU:   Yesterday?   
   
 Q.   Yes.   
SO YEON RYU:   Yes, because she won the tournament last week.   
   
 Q.   So if you or NaYeon win Sunday, do you have to pick up‑‑  
SO YEON RYU:   Yeah, I'm glad to buy dinner for them.   I haven't win any tournaments the last two years, so I've been waiting my winning so hardly.   I wish I can make a win this week.  
   
 Q.   Have you ever had a round like this in your career, 9‑under, a 63?  
SO YEON RYU:   I shot 11‑under when I was playing in 2012 Australian Masters, but I couldn't win the tournament, but I hope I can win this tournament this time.   
   
 Q.   You've been so close to winning this year.   What do you attest to kind of getting over the hump there?  
SO YEON RYU:   You know, if you think about like positive way, it could be‑‑ if I think about really like negative way, I fail so many times, but at the same time I learn so many things, so I think this kind of things bring me to more bigger things.   
I hope all like tests, just‑‑ I've just got through all the tests, and I want to make it this one.  
   
 Q.   You and NaYeon, you both had the big wins and then you took two years off of winning the last two, but you've still played great golf.   Do you talk about that, help each other through that?  
SO YEON RYU:   You know what, we played International Crown together.   It was a really great opportunity to make us more honest to each other, then we talked about how hard getting through tough times, especially Inbee‑‑ NaYeon won U.S. Open and CME two years ago, then haven't won anything.   Also I'm kind of in the same situation.   So we talk about how can we get through this one, how do we think about this situation, then NaYeon and I both have kind of like a really sad thing, so I realized I'm not only one through the hard time.   No matter if I play better or not.   So I think that kind of conversation made me more relate, then after International Crown experience, that tournament was quite tough because I was playing for my country, so I feel when I'm nervous out there, I feel like less nervous than International Crown, so I think it's going to help my game.  
   
 Q.   Did you talk about what shirt you were going to wear?  
SO YEON RYU:   No, we didn't talk about it at all, but I met her at the range and I saw that we were wearing exactly the same, so I hope this tee shirt is a really lucky charm for us.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT