INTERNATIONAL CROWN
July 27, 2014
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   It was nip and tuck all the way.   I notice you had some putting fireworks going on over there.   How did you right the ship, because it looked like it was nip and tuck out there?  
SO YEON RYU:   Today my distance control, on the green, my putting speed control was so terrible.   I made a birdie at the first hole, then I made a 3‑putt two holes in a row, so I was 1‑down.   So I was pretty disappointed in myself.  
But I was remembering this is match play.   No matter what the past holes are.   I could keep focused where I am right now and that I was really trying to enjoy my game.   It worked really well.   
I'm really proud of myself, especially at hole 17, it's awkward to say fantastic bogey, but it was a fantastic bogey.   So this is such a memorable moment for me.  
   
 Q.   You took the words right out of my mouth.   I was going to ask you exactly what was going through your mind after you hit that tee shot on 17?  
SO YEON RYU:   Oh my gosh, I mean hole 18 is a really hard hole, so I really couldn't lose the hole at 17.   But I missed a shot and I thought, Oh, my gosh, it's in the hazard, how can I beat her?   
Then, for me, fortunately, she missed her shot to the left, so I thought I still have a chance.   So I was almost trying to make a par, I mean, a chip‑in par.   So that shot was a really tough chip.   But I made a really great shot and also I made a really great putt.   So I think it's one of my best shots in the week.   
   
 Q.   So your overall feel about the International Crown?   Now that you're done, personally, how do you feel about the tournament in general?  
SO YEON RYU:   You know, it was just a fantastic week.   I had a real blast this last week.   I played with Inbee three days in a row, so our combination was quite fantastic.   I really enjoyed being with Inbee.   Also I never played with Na Yeon and I.K., but I still feel we were totally great teammates.   Especially before we were going to the playoff yesterday, I.K. and Na Yeon gave us a lot of advice and a lot of energy.   
So this week is totally, we can feel we're going to play with our country like we did.   So I'm really proud of my teammates.   Also I'm really happy to have all the crowds cheering us.   So I had a really great week.   
Also, I really do appreciate Mike, Kraig and all the LPGA workers.   This is really a fantastic week.   This is really on my bucket list.   I really want to play on another International Crown in 2016.  
   
 Q.   You tweeted out that you're going to miss your teammate.   What do you take away with playing with Inbee for so many days?  
SO YEON RYU:   I was so lonely, especially when I missed her, I was always looking for Inbee.   But today Inbee wasn't there, so I have to handle everything myself.   So that one is a pretty tough one.   But my caddie helped me a lot.   
And Sakura and I, I had a really great match with her.   We just kept talking to each other.   We really feel like there wasn't a rivalry or that kind of thing.   We just kind of enjoyed it.   So that kind of talk made me not think about Inbee.  
   
 Q.   Do you think that you playing with Inbee for those three days brought you even closer together than you even were before?  
SO YEON RYU:   Oh, absolutely, because we can share more of the memorable things in the future.   So definitely we are getting more close.   But the other good thing is Inbee and I, Inbee won, I mean, actually Inbee won a tournament this year, but I haven't won any tournaments this year and last year.   But, yeah, I was close, but when I was in contention I missed a lot of putts.   
But this week I had a lot of great putts.   And especially when I was at the pressure, I handled it pretty well.   So this kind of thing just brings really great energy to my game.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT