MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 19, 2014
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Real quick, thoughts going into tomorrow.   
SO YEON RYU:   Actually, today my putting was not good as what I expected.   Still I had so many great birdie chance, so means I still have a really good chance.  
Really happy with what I had closing.   You know, I three birdies at the last four holes.   I can feel really positive energy, so I hope I can make more birdie tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   On the 9th hole you had to mark Diaz's ball after she had driven onto the green.   
SO YEON RYU:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   That was kind of an odd sensation, because you were on the exact same line she was on.   
SO YEON RYU:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   How did you like having moved up the tees on the 9?  
SO YEON RYU:   Oh, you know, it's so much fun.   Sometimes if golf course is so boring, you know, if we don't have any option sometime it can be boring.  
But I think this year setup is more exciting.   For example, they move forward tee at the 8th hole.   It's really short par‑3, but still hole location is tricky.   Short distance but not easy.  
Also 9, you know, we can reach the green, but at the same time the green is so, so tough.   If you miss even five yards right it can be roll up to 50 yard.   If we miss a little left, it could be stuck in the trees.  
So I love it.   Yeah, I love the setup.  
   
 Q.   Is it an advantage for you that you've won here before?  
SO YEON RYU:   Oh, absolutely.   No matter I play great right now or not, I still can feel like comfortable because I had a really great memory here.   So I just love to be here.  
Even I still can remember the crowd was really nice to me when I won this tournament, so I always had really great energy.  
   
 Q.   Feels like you've had a lot of Top 10s this year but haven't been able to break through with a win.   Do you feel like that's coming?   
SO YEON RYU:   You know, I can feel my game is definitely improved.   The thing is, just as you say, just wins not coming yet.  
I think it's really matter of time.   I hope I can make a win at this tournament.   
   
 Q.   What do you feel like is holding your game back this year?   Is it putting?  
SO YEON RYU:   Yeah, putting.   I always struggle with my putting.  
   
 Q.   Because you hit the ball as good as anyone.  
SO YEON RYU:   Thank you, though.   I met Dave Stockton before I go to British Open.   We found out some really great stuff, so I'm still working on with it.  
Then now, you know, I know I can improve about the putting, so it's really matter of time.  
   
 Q.   Where did you meet Dave at?   
SO YEON RYU:   Dave lives in Redlands, so I live like two hours from that way.   So I drove to Redlands to see him.   It was quite great time.   
   
 Q.   Who set you up with that?   
SO YEON RYU:   No, I already working with Dave Stockton since 2012.   Our tournament schedule is kind of busy so I haven't had so much time to see him, but before I'm going to British Open I had to see him.   Because after US Open I could feel, Oh, my gosh, my putting is a terrible.  
I really wanted to see him.   Then we found a really great problem and great solution, so I think it's still working out.  
   
 Q.   What was the problem and solution?  
SO YEON RYU:   Oh, well, every time my problem is my arm is too tight.   Well, especially if I'm nervous my body is getting tighter and I use too much hand work.  
We try to be more focus on lighter hand pressure and bit more working with the arm.   
   
 Q.   How much will you thinking about that tomorrow?   Obviously nerves will be there.   You're one back of the lead more than likely.   
SO YEON RYU:   I mean, sometimes feels like processing is more important than result.   So I just want to be focus on where I am right now and what I have to shot right now.  
I just want to pretty much focus.   I don't want to think about result or winning trophy, that kind of thing.   Still, I think I can play well.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT