RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
July 11, 2014
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Not the greatest of starts, what do you say to yourself after the first couple holes?   
SO YEON RYU:   You know, the thing is links golf course double is still not a really bad, bad score.   Even I hit a great tee shot and great second shot, but unfortunately my ball finished at the ridge of the bunker.   So that's why I made a double.   
Most important thing is just forget about the bad result.   It's a matter of I hit it great or not.   So I think I did a really great job of just accept it and think about the present and last hole.   So I think that's why I played well today.   
Then today I think I kind of had a love/hate relationship with putting because the back nine my shot was really great but I still missed a couple of birdie putts.   But at the same time, I made lots of great par putts.   So I'm pretty happy with what I'm doing today.  
   
 Q.   Did you feel like the golf course was there for the taking with these conditions?   
SO YEON RYU:   Well, you know what, we are really fortunate.   Yesterday the weather was great and today the weather was great and seems like the next two days, looks like we are going to get really great weather.   Feels really great to be here and I'm always excited to play the links golf course.  
   
 Q.   What does that take over the weekend to get it done here?   
SO YEON RYU:   You know, the U.S. Open and British is quite different.   That's why I like links golf courses, we have so many options.   We can hit 5‑wood and we can hit driver and also we can hit 5‑iron at the same teeing ground.   
So I think that's why I really like links golf course and I think that's why I want to win the British Open, and in that case, I can hold the U.S. Open trophy and the British Open trophy and it will be awesome.  
   
 Q.   So a double‑bogey but you seemed to rebound really well.   What was the key for you in the round today?   
SO YEON RYU:   You know what, the links golf course is always hard to predict.   Even when I hit the great shots, still can finish at the worst place and when I hit the bad shots, still can finish close to the pin.   
So really important thing is whatever the result, we need to accept it and just keep working on.   That's the main thing.   Then today I made a double‑bogey on the second hole, but I knew that it was my‑‑ just unlucky, and I just accepted it and then just think about next holes and then it helped a lot.   So then I could play well after that.  
   
 Q.   Beautiful weather, not many players under par; how happy are you to have an under par round today?  
SO YEON RYU:   The thing is my tee shot was really great.   I didn't really miss big on the fairways, so that's why I was maybe more comfortable than other players.   I'm really lucky and happy with my tee shot.   The other thing is it's really hard to read the line on the greens.   We had so many double breaks and still that's why a lot of players miss the short putts a lot.   2‑under par is an amazing score for me.   
   
 Q.   To see yourself up there at 3‑under, tied for the lead, does that change at all on how you go into the weekend knowing that you're right up there at the top of the leaderboard?  
SO YEON RYU:   No, nothing changes.   For me most important thing is the tee shot.   At the teeing ground we have so many options.   We have to be smart, so my main goal is just keep it in the fairway.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT