U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 20, 2014
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How was it today, was it hard to stay patient?SO YEON RYU: Yeah, today it was really hardest part was weather, especially the front nine.  It was hot, windy, rainy.  So it was really hot.  Especially when I heard like thunder storms coming, then it feels like the USGA is going to suspend it.  So it makes me think, oh, when are they going to blow the horn?  Because I don't want to putt when the horn is blowing.  So that was a little hard. The other thing is today the greens were firmer than yesterday, for sure.  So for me, I hit a couple really great shots, but still it ran up to the bunker and went just over the green.  That kind of thing make it's really hard, because I think myself, I hit a really great shot but finish in a bad spot, so I am pretty disappointed about that.  So it was really hard to like control my mind.
Q. How important were those three straight birdies?SO YEON RYU: Actually, you know what, I had four straight birdies chance, but I just missed it by this much (Indicating.) So that's kind of the thing that's disappointing.  But really good thing is, you know, I made a 4-over after three holes, but at the same time, I made a three birdies, three holes.  So it's kind of like it's really great fight back.  So it makes me more confidence and got me more confidence.
Q. On the putt you missed, for your fourth straight birdie, do you find or did you find the greens were, even though they were firmer, that they putted a little bit slower in the afternoon compared with the morning yesterday?SO YEON RYU: I don't think the greens were slower.  But for me, this green looks like really flat but actually with a lot of break.  So that makes it really hard to read the line.
Q. How hard the course is playing, how nice is it to have a drivable par-4 on the 3rd hole?SO YEON RYU: It's a really good thing.  I'm really honored to play this type of golf course.  This is pretty new because it's links style but when I'm playing links style it's always cold and windy and rainy, but now it's really warm.  So it's really a rare opportunity to play on this kind of golf course.  So it's really fun. The other thing is, it feels like it's really tough, but I still have a chance to make a really great birdie if I play smart.  So for me, it's fun, it's a really fun thing that I can -- I have to be smart, so I have to be thinking a bit more.  So that kind of thing is really fun for me.
Q. What did you do on No. 3?  The short one that you can drive?SO YEON RYU: Actually, I made a 3.  I made a birdie.  I hit a 3-wood that I was supposed to hit a little fade shot but I hit a pull. So my second shot was really hard, because I have to over the bunker and I have to make a really great spin on the ball.  Then I think my chip shot was pretty great and my birdie putt was like four paces.  It was a double break, so it was really hard to make it, but I made it.  So I'm pretty proud of myself.
Q. Do you ever watch men's golf on TV?SO YEON RYU: Yeah, absolutely.  I watched every day, especially on Sunday, I followed them.  Then one thing I learned is that even they hold a pitching wedge on their hand and they still not hit it to the pin, they hit to the middle of the green.  So sometimes I'm playing too aggressive, but that made me think, okay, this golf course, I cannot playing like aggressive player, so I have just been more thinking about like safe play.  So that's really the biggest thing I learned.
Q. Conservative.SO YEON RYU: Yes.
Q. I just taught you a new word.SO YEON RYU: Thank you.




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT