LPGA LOTTE CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY J GOLF
April 16, 2014
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   I'd like to welcome in So Yeon Ryu into the interview room, our leader in the clubhouse at 4‑under.   Great round today.   Looks like it might stay.   Everybody thought they'd come into this course and shoot some low numbers, but the wind was a huge factor.   Talk about your round overall and the wind today.   
SO YEON RYU:   Well, first of all, the wind was pretty strong, so it was really hard to play with this much strong wind.   The most difficult part was sometimes gust wind is super extremely strong, so also it was affecting the putting.   It was really hard to read a line.   The really good thing is my iron shot was really nice, so my birdie putt is almost just like (indiscernible).   But that one is kind of ‑‑ is no matter of the wind.   
So I'm pretty happy with my iron shot today.   Hopefully tomorrow there's going to be like less wind.  
   
 Q.   Take us through the birdies.   Inbee just said very very difficult to be able to make some birdies.   Coming in people were thinking they could put up some low numbers.   
SO YEON RYU:   First hole was I made a one‑foot birdie putt, and also second hole I made a two‑foot birdie putt.   It's a really great start.   If you make two great holes before you start, it can be really big confidence.   
When I hit an iron shot, I pretty much press myself because I already had a great experience and made a lot of great birdies.   I think it was a help.   
Once again, the wind was really hard to judge, so that was why it was really hard to make a birdie chance.  
   
 Q.   Talk about club selection and how difficult that is in this kind of wind.   
SO YEON RYU:   Well, that's why I discuss a lot with my caddie today.   Sometimes it feels like right‑to‑left wind, but actually it was into wind.   And it was really hard to see and really hard to judge.   
But if someone hit it first than me, I can see the ball flight and I can see how much effort into the ball, the wind.   So it's pretty much copied a lot with my fellow competitor.  
   
 Q.   What was your mindset going into today and did you have any expectations?   Did you have any goals?  
SO YEON RYU:   I had a pretty bad round at the Nabisco Championship, so I was pretty disappointed in myself.   
After that I had a really great week off with my mom.   My mom was in L.A., so I had a really great time with my mom sightseeing in L.A.   
It pretty much just cleared my mind, and I don't think about any score or my performance.   I pretty much think about‑‑ not worried about any particular hole and I didn't think about the press once.   Just pretty much think about the present.  
   
 Q.   What sights did you see in L.A.?   
SO YEON RYU:   I went to Getty Center and I went to Malibu, Santa Monica, and I went to really great restaurants.   So we ate a lot.  
   
 Q.   Is that the first time mom has visited you in L.A.?  
SO YEON RYU:   No, not really.   My mom hasn't done much sightseeing in L.A., so it was a great time to look around L.A.   then my mom loved it and mymom just (indiscernible).   
I just pretty much happy with‑‑ I have a really great opportunity to look around with my family in the States.  
   
 Q.   What about Hawai'i here?   Do you love coming here?  
SO YEON RYU:   Yeah, I always love to be here, you know.   Especially, you know, all of us at the hotel and resort is pretty close to golf course.   Every day we can walk around the beach.   Also it's a really great place to run at the beach.   I love this place.   Also, this golf course is a really great golf course, but just the greens make it really hard.   
   
 Q.   You said the best part of your game is your irons.   Isn't that the hardest part?  
SO YEON RYU:   Absolutely the hardest part.   Before I started the tournament, I sent my swing video to my swing coach.   He gave me a couple of tips and I think that was helpful.   I used my wrist too much, so he requested for me to use less the wrists when you start the backswing.   I think that was pretty helpful with my iron play.   
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT