SIME DARBY LPGA MALAYSIA
October 11, 2013
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   So, good day today.   A lot better than yesterday?  
SO YEON RYU:   Lot better, yeah.  
   
 Q.   How did you feel today that was much different?   
SO YEON RYU:   Well, honestly, this week my shot condition wasn't really great, but the thing is my coach is here this week, so we fixed a little putting skill thing.   Today the putting was really great, so I made a lot of long putts and I saved a lot of par putts.   
That is kind of key.   Always putting is really important.   Even still my shot wasn't great, but if I putted well, I can be more confident.   So, I'm pretty thankful about the putting.  
   
 Q.   How long were you struggling on putting, because you've had good finishes the past couple of events?   
SO YEON RYU:   Yeah, it is, but this year still my record is not bad.   But I could have won so far but because of putting is what I think.   Also if I compare with last year's date and this year's date, the putting number is too big this year.   So this year I pretty much really wanted to improve my putting skills.   I'm pretty sure it's time to improve it.  
   
 Q.   What is your coach's name?   
SO YEON RYU:   Ian Triggs.  
   
 Q.   So moving up on the leaderboard, two days in.   What about the rest of the week?   
SO YEON RYU:   Hopefully, now, yesterday and today putting was really great.   So I'm really happy with it.   If I just think about thinking about the long game thing, I'm going to practice with my coach again hopefully tomorrow and the weekend game needs improvement.  
   
 Q.   What specifically putting‑wise were you working on?   
SO YEON RYU:   Well, before I used like too much used my hands.   Golf is really simple is really important, but I wasn't simple.   Like too much complicated.   So this week my plan is just simple and hit.  
   
 Q.   Keep your hands quiet?   
SO YEON RYU:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   So keeping your hands a little more quiet, it got a little too complicated?   
SO YEON RYU:   Yes.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT