U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 29, 2013
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Great round on your birthday?  
SO YEON RYU:   Thank you.  
   
 Q.   Tell us what that means to you.   
SO YEON RYU:   Well, before I teed off, I really wanted to enjoy my birthday.   It was really hard to enjoy the golf especially this tough golf course.   Today is my birthday, so I think it is really worth it.   That's why I was pretty much can handle it, this tough golf course.   
I think today my shot was pretty great, almost perfect game for me.   The thing is today the wind was quite strong, so it was really hard to putt it.   Even at the really big (indiscernible) at the green, so the ball is going to go everywhere.   The last couple of holes I had a really great birdie chance, but I couldn't make it.   Just a big disappointment, but I'm still happy with my result.  
   
 Q.   Are you close enough to do something tomorrow, maybe you go low enough and Inbee backs up enough?  
SO YEON RYU:   You know, everything can happen especially at the golf and especially at the U.S. Open.   The course conditions getting tough and tough.   Also, you know, everybody cannot predict what is going on.   So I just want to keep focus on my golf, and I just want to‑‑ I just don't want to compete with anybody.   I just don't want to think about the winning thing.   If I hit each hole and each shot, I'm pretty sure I can play well.   
   
 Q.   Is that what you did at the Broadmoor?  
SO YEON RYU:   Absolutely, absolutely.   At the Broadmoor, even I didn't think about I could win or not.   I didn't think about it.   But I was in contention and I made it.   So it means I really don't have to think about the lift the trophy or whatever.   I can dream it, but I don't really have to think about it.  
   
 Q.   Is it easier for you to block all that out and think about the golf?  
SO YEON RYU:   Absolutely.   If I think about the winning thing, it's a lot of pressure on me.   
Also I already had experience of this thing at the last year.   I thought was still in contention.   I really want to finish had the top 3 or top 5.   I don't want to be too aggressive and not focus on my golf, so I was a little missed up at the last couple of holes.   So I think really important thing is to keep it my mind at the ball.   Don't think about other players.  
   
 Q.   How do you celebrate?   Do you have special plans for dinner?   
SO YEON RYU:   I am sharing the house with Mi Jung Hur, so have a small celebration, a cake and nice dinner.   Then I think about tomorrow, my chance to be going to New York City and have a really great birthday party.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT