U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 28, 2013
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   The course seems likes it's more difficult but you had a pretty good round today?
SO YEON RYU:   You know, the two days be more windy so it's really hard to hit the second shot, especially this green is huge.   The iron shot, I mean, the second shot is really important.   Even if you are on the green, it's still really hard to make a two‑putt. 
Today my iron shot was pretty great.   That's why I thought I could play well. 
Also yesterday I missed a couple of tee shot and that's why I was in trouble.   Today my tee shot was pretty accurate so I'm happy with my result.

Q.   Is the course different today from yesterday?
SO YEON RYU:   Well, I think it seems like pretty much opposite wind.   Also yesterday was like easy hole because it was helping. 
Today it was into quite a bit different golf course.   But I think yesterday was quite a bit rainy.   But still green is pretty firm, so not really easy to play.

Q.   Were there clubs that you used yesterday that never came out of your bag today?
SO YEON RYU:   Yeah, actually if I hit 9‑iron today, I hit like 6‑iron. 
Yesterday if I hit the really long iron, I hit short iron.   It's kind of the opposite.   If it's totally opposite winds, it makes you confused so it's really hard to trust the yardage.

Q.   How much does your being a champion here give you confidence at this event?
SO YEON RYU:   If I play a major tournament, I'm always afraid of it because it's major and it's a really tough golf course. 
I already won the (indiscernible) Open and, oh, maybe I can handle it.   It's a really difficult golf course.   Kind of that way to confidence, so it's like proof of the experience and it really helped me a lot. 
Hopefully it will really great affect to last week, the last two rounds. 

Q.   I was going to say you feel pretty good going into the weekend after the way you played today?
SO YEON RYU:   Yeah, yeah, my putting feels really great, so I'm pretty sure I can play well. 
Hopefully the weather is going to be okay the Saturday and Sunday then I will try my best. 

Q.   I notice that several of the young amateurs that are out there started three, four, fiveyears old, do they seem to be starting younger and younger?   Did you notice that? 
SO YEON RYU:   Yeah, I think so.   Especially Lydia Ko is just 15 or 16years old.   She is playing so well. 
But actually, I was started playing golf when I was eight, but it seems like a lot of players started playing golf like four or fiveyears old.   Especially they are starting with like short game, so their short game skill is really great. 
So I think I have to improve my game because a lot of kids are growing up.   They are really‑‑ it kind of scares a player.

Q.   How did you start?   Why?   What got you interested?
SO YEON RYU:   I started playing golf at the elementary school.   I just wanted to hang out with my friends.   That's why I joined the playing golf.   Actually, at that moment I just playing golf as a hobby. 
After I started to play golf five years, then it feels like golf is my destiny.   I feel so happy to play the golf.   That is why I picked the golf.   I'm pretty happy with my decision.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT