BIG EAST CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 10, 2000
Anthony Glover
Chudney Gray
Mike Jarvis
Lavor Postell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 COACH JARVIS: Well, I guess everybody certainly saw an exciting game, a game that was
filled with defense. Our deepest respect, obviously, is toward Miami, who just would not,
as always, would never, ever quit. And we wish them the best in the NCAA Tournament. We're
very fortunate, obviously feel very blessed to be moving on to play for the Big East
Championship tomorrow against the University of Connecticut. We'll give it everything
we've got, as we've done all year. 
 
Q. Coach, have you ever been part of a more eventful 2.2 seconds?
 
 COACH JARVIS: Probably, but I don't remember. I don't know what more could happen in 2
seconds than happened tonight. It was just incredible. I don't think anybody in this room
could have written a script and played it out the way it was played out here. 
 
Q. Anthony, your thoughts out there alone, going through the motions, waiting for your
free-throws, what were you thinking?
 
 ANTHONY GLOVER: I was nervous, first of all. But Coach Thurman (phonetic spelling) told
me, you know, back in my high school games, same way in a championship game. He just have
to remind me of that. I just bend me knees, follow through and I hit both of them. 
 
Q. For the two seniors, you guys had talked about, finally cutting down the last
(inaudible) --
 
 LAVOR POSTELL: We're back in that situation again. This year, I think, our expectations
are much higher now. We have more confidence going to this championship game, you know, I
never did this before. I hope tomorrow -- it will be my first time. 
 
Q. Chudney?
 
 CHUDNEY GRAY: I think that it's a great opportunity for us to come out and play hard
and play as a unit and hopefully if we do everything right, we can cut down the net. 
 
Q. What did you think of Hemsley trying to touch you and shake your hand or whatever
was going on there?
 
 ANTHONY GLOVER: To me, I think that's bad luck, so I didn't touch him at all. 
 
Q. Do you think he thought the same thing?
 
 ANTHONY GLOVER: I don't know what he thought. But I ain't touching him. (Laughter.) 
 
Q. Anthony, when you were watching the second one go down, can you describe what's
going through your head, what that feeling is?
 
 ANTHONY GLOVER: I thought we had this game, you know, and they called the foul on my
man Lavor, so we had to see what deal was going to go down on the free-throw line.
Fortunately, they missed, so bye-bye. 
 
Q. Can you talk about that foul at half court, you know, what were you trying to do on
the play and did you think it was a foul?
 
 LAVOR POSTELL: I mean, I'm a senior for four years. Plays like that, I let them catch
it and make a shot from half court. I thought it was a clean -- the ref thought I touched
him or whatever so, you know, they had an opportunity to win the game, but the Lord was on
our side. He missed. We got the win. 
 
Q. 2.7 seconds left, can you tell us what you wanted to run on the baseline out of
bounds, what you were looking for?
 
 COACH JARVIS: We were hoping that maybe they would make a mistake against one of the
players that we run, which is a little -- sort of like a pick-and-roll between Lavor,
Bootsy and Lane. If they make a mistake, we have a chance to get inside, maybe get fouled,
get a basket. They did a great job of taking away both of them, but in so doing, they
opened up the baseline for Anthony to be able to catch. There was plenty of time to catch.
We were fortunate, you know, that they made the call, and even more fortunate that he was
the guy going to the line and that he made it. 
 
Q. Mike, can you talk about Chudney's contribution tonight?
 
 COACH JARVIS: Well, Chudney's contribution tonight, I think, is sort of indicative and
symbolic of his contribution all year. Chudney's been the guy that, you know, has
basically given us what we needed when we needed it, and he's come up big. And he
certainly has, I think, justified the faith that he had in himself when most people were
saying that he could not play basketball at this level, and when they were saying that he
should have stayed in Manhattan, I believe that's where he was or where he was going. But
he came to St. John's, he waited his turn and worked and worked. When he thought he should
have played more, he worked and worked. Things have a way of working out for people who
work hard and have talent. Chudney's doing a great job. 
 
Q. Coach, is Erick okay tonight?
 
 COACH JARVIS: Yeah, he's very banged up tonight. But he's had -- been able to bounce
back. We're certainly optimistic he'll be able to do the same this time as well. 
 
Q. For Chudney and Lavor, Khalid El-Amin said he wanted St. John's in the finals. Are
you guys glad that you got Connecticut?
 
 LAVOR POSTELL: I heard that, but, you know, there's a saying going around, be careful
what you wish for, you might just get it. We have a little rematch going on from last
year. It's going to be a battle tomorrow. 
 CHUDNEY GRAY: Lavor said it all. 
 
Q. Coach, you were late getting out of the locker room in the second half. Was that
tending to Erick or what was your delay getting on the court?
 
 COACH JARVIS: Yeah, that was tending to Erick. I figured my team would get -- I was
hoping to come out and we'd be up by ten, but it didn't work. 
 
Q. Can you talk a little bit about the UConn matchups and what you expect in the
championship game?
 
 COACH JARVIS: Well, this year we were able to beat them a couple of times. However,
it's a new season, and as difficult as it was the first and second time, it's going to be
even more difficult tomorrow. But I think there will be a full house to see what happens.
Thank you. 
 
End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT