LPGA Q-SERIES
October 31, 2019
Jennifer Chang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I was going to say, the Cary, North Carolina native out here blowing up Pinehurst. What has this experience been like for you?
JENNIFER CHANG: It's more than I ever could have imagined. Just being back home, it feels great after being back in California for school.
So, I mean, the support system out here, I've seen familiar faces, so it's great to have the support back at home.
Q. You went through Q2 so I kind of know this whole qualifying can be a marathon, not a sprint. What was it like preparing for Q2, then this, knowing this was kind of a hometown feel for you?
JENNIFER CHANG: Yeah, I learned a lot from playing stage one and stage two. I think the most important thing is getting well rested. Like you said, it's not a sprint it's a marathon, so a lot of golf left.
Just kind of keep my head down and see how everything plays.
Q. You've got a lot of collegiate members out here as well trying to make their mark. Have you been able to see any of them? Have you been giving any advice from any of them as you come through here?
JENNIFER CHANG: I mean, I think it's new for me; some of them have experienced this before. But they haven't really said anything. I just kind of play it like any other tournament.
Obviously this is next level for me, so I just want to enjoy myself but also play well at the same time.
Q. You've recently said that you want to turn professional after Q-Series.
JENNIFER CHANG: Yes.
Q. What have the last couple rounds done for your game and confidence as a potential professional player on the LPGA Tour?
JENNIFER CHANG: Yeah, it does give me confidence going into these next two rounds, but obviously still a lot of golf left. Anything can happen.
So really just keeping my head down and not trying to get too comfortable. Again, like anything, literally anything, can happen, so I'm just going to stick to my routine and enjoy myself.
Q. Where are you staying this week?
JENNIFER CHANG: Just at an airbnb.
Q. So not home because it's a little too far away, right?
JENNIFER CHANG: Yeah. It's an hour drive, so that's a little much, two hours every day, so I'm just staying at an airbnb.
Q. Who followed you to Pinehurst today?
JENNIFER CHANG: Just my mom and then also family friends out here with me. You know, the people working this tournament actually, like at the tee box, a lot familiar faces. I know a lot of people here.
Q. You've won four high school state titles at Pinehurst.
JENNIFER CHANG: Yeah.
Q. Did you ever win any on Pinehurst No. 9?
JENNIFER CHANG: No. I played Pinehurst No. 6 and I won my high school state championship there. But, again, it definitely feels like home and I know what these courses are like, so really enjoying myself.
Q. When you're going through, do you ever think about those memories, about how well you played there then and now you're back?
JENNIFER CHANG: Yeah, definitely, but it's not really a cushion. It's still Q-Series. Just trying to play my best and, yeah, just enjoy myself.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT