U.S. GIRLS' JUNIOR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 29, 2017
Jennifer Chang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Talk about it, just a little short today, but overall you've got to be happy.
JENNIFER CHANG: Yeah, just to be able to make it this far, I'm just really proud of myself.  I mean, knowing there was over like 1,300 girls that tried to qualify for this event, and being in the last two against me and Erica, it's just a great accomplishment, and I'm really proud of Erica.  She's my best friend, one of my best friends, and it's a fun match with her.  I mean, there's that intensity, but it's fun.
Q. On the speed of the putts, I saw so many just curl a little low on you.  Was it a speed thing or did you not have the same touch maybe?  You'd been doing so well all week.
JENNIFER CHANG: Yeah, I think compared to yesterday, my putting today, it wasn't quite there.  A lot of them I think just speed and alignment was probably the problem today.  They were just at the end, just curving on me.
Q. You put the pressure on her there.  You got her to 1-down.  You also had two or three beautiful irons within a couple of feet.  One hole she matched your birdie from outside you, and another you just couldn't quite get over that deficit.  How hard was that to keep pushing against?
JENNIFER CHANG: You know, my caddie, Connor, he was a tremendous help for me.  He said, keep it going, don't stop, and that's exactly what I focused on.  Even when I was 4-down after she birdied the 2nd, there was nothing to lose.  There was plenty of golf left, and got it to 1-down after 13, and just kept fighting on until the end.
Q. You guys are friends, aren't you?  How cool is that?
JENNIFER CHANG: I mean, it was fun.  Funny thing is she was like 4-down, too, and she came back and halved, so it was a great experience.
Q. Did she listen to you?
JENNIFER CHANG: Yeah, I was a good caddie.  I'd say I was a good caddie.
Q. You know what she went through last night; do you feel bad for her?
JENNIFER CHANG: Yeah, I mean, knowing through like social media and stuff, for my friend to go through that, it hurts, especially at a championship like this.  The media is not nice, and I talked to her this morning, and I said, forget about that.  Let's have some fun.  Just you and me, one-on-one.  Let's go for it.
Q. What about this golf course; you had gone on such a roll in match play with early leads and just playing so well.  First time this week you had a deficit to start.
JENNIFER CHANG: Yeah.
Q. Was that in your head?
JENNIFER CHANG: You know, that came to my mind, just that one moment when I lost that second hole, when I pushed it into the water.  But I forgot about that right away, and I said, you know, that's two holes out of the, what, 36 holes -- 34 holes that I had left, so I quickly got over that.  I was like, there's plenty of golf left.  There's nothing that can stop you right now.
Q. You played some wonderful golf all week, and I'm sure you take a lot of positives.  You're playing in the Women's Amateur in two weeks?
JENNIFER CHANG: Yes, I am.
Q. What's your overall thought?
JENNIFER CHANG: You know, I'm just really proud of how I finished here, just to make it to the finals is a huge, huge accomplishment.  I'm looking forward to the U.S. Women's Am next week.  Hopefully, maybe.  Just take it one round at a time when I get there.
Q. And maybe get a little rest before that?
JENNIFER CHANG: Oh, yeah, definitely.  I'll need it for sure.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT