U.S. GIRLS' JUNIOR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 28, 2017
Jennifer Chang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. We were just talking about how you have not trailed at all in any match.  Just talk about that.
JENNIFER CHANG: Yeah, it's insane.  I think part of it is just my mental game right now.  I think my mental game is at a good state, and you know, in match play like this, you never know what can happen.  So I try to take it one shot at a time and not get ahead of myself.
Q. Have you been able to relax, because you've got the lead either on the first or second hole in all of match play.  Have you felt that kind of ease things on you a little bit at all?
JENNIFER CHANG: You know, even my caddie, Connor, he was talking to me about you don't want to get too comfortable, because you can have a 5-up lead going into nine or a 6-up lead going into the back nine and anything can happen.
I didn't get too comfortable.  I said it's not over until it's over, and that's just my mind-set this whole week.
Q. We were also talking about how you haven't had to play 18 holes until today.  Does that help at the end of the week, maybe going into tomorrow?  Do you feel more rested?
JENNIFER CHANG: I mean, I feel like each day I've played over 18 holes.
Q. But compared to some of the others, you're considerably less?
JENNIFER CHANG: It makes me feel relaxed.  I don't have to walk as many holes.
Q. Is this one of the longer championships or tournaments you play in throughout the year?
JENNIFER CHANG: Yeah, last year at U.S. girls, I lost in a round of 32, so I needed to make it to finals.  It's insane.  It definitely feels like a really long week right now but I'm excited.
Q. Your match with Taylor, just talk to us about her game versus your game, or do you just block it out and focus on yourself?
JENNIFER CHANG: You know, when it comes to any kind of match, I try to focus on myself.  Obviously match play is one-on-one, so you're going to focus on your opponent, too.  I think in the back of my mind, it's telling me, you know, stay focused.  You got this.
Q. How do you ride the momentum and kind of like nerves off the first tee?  Because you've come out strong from the beginning hole almost every single match.
JENNIFER CHANG: Yeah, in my mind, I'm just saying, you know, there's always that adrenaline that kicks in.  So I just try to tone it down and take some deep breaths and drink a lot of water.
Q. Do you do any thing to help you relax?
JENNIFER CHANG: I do meditation.  I do meditation, ten minutes.  I use this app called Head Space.  I do that on the way here because it's a 30-minute drive.  I do that in the morning, every morning.  I just started it this week, right before I came here.
Q. Is this something you thought of to kill the time?
JENNIFER CHANG: I work with a mental coach now, Dr. Matt Park, and he introduced me to that, and I think it's made a huge difference.  I mean, compared to last week at the Junior PGA and this week, I think it's really helped me mentally.
Q. How do you feel different starting the day that way when you start play?
JENNIFER CHANG: Usually I'm hard on myself and I tell myself, you know -- I get ahead of myself, like way ahead of myself and I think about results.  I think with this meditation, Dr. Matt Park helping me, I think it's definitely made a huge difference for me.
Q. Is there anything you say to yourself or what's involved in that ten-minute process?
JENNIFER CHANG: Actually it's just all about relaxing in that app.  There's this person that talks through and he tells me what to do, and I just kind of sit in the car and relax, not think about too much.
Q. Does that come into play like on a stretch when you have like three or four birdies in a row?
JENNIFER CHANG: Yeah, it does.  You know, even if you're in the lead, there's that adrenaline that kicks in.  So you obviously don't want to get too hyped up.  You want to mentally stay calm.
Q. I asked you yesterday about Springfield, and you said one time you went back and visited cousins or something but you didn't remember.  Do you still have family there?
JENNIFER CHANG: Yes, I do.  My cousins and my aunt still live in Springfield, Missouri.
Q. Did anyone come to see you play?
JENNIFER CHANG: I think I'm going to see her on Saturday, is tomorrow Saturday?  Yeah, I think I'll see her tomorrow.
Q. Your aunt?
JENNIFER CHANG: Yes, my aunt and my cousin.  My aunt on my dad's side.  My dad's sister.
Q. I know you're doing all you can to stay in the moment but I have to ask this:  What would it mean to you to get your name inscribed on this trophy?
JENNIFER CHANG: That would be a huge honor.  To know that there's this LPGA player, their names are on that trophy; it would be a dream come true to have my name on that trophy.
Q. What name stands out to you the most?
JENNIFER CHANG: Inbee Park.  Inbee Park for sure.  She's just a great role model and a great golfer.  She's someone that I really look up to.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT