NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: OILERS v HURRICANES
June 16, 2006
Shawn Horcoff
Jussi Markkanen
Michael Peca
Fernando Pisani
Dwayne Roloson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MICHAEL PECA:  Different attributes on our line.  Biggest thing is we're just putting a lot of pressure.  I think our success stems from that.   
  
  Q.  Talk about the way you guys -- a line that seems to be able to do just about anything, to score, check another big line, you have penalty killers on your line.   
 MICAEL PECA:  It's good to have that versatility.  One of the great things on our team is that we have got all lines that are capable of playing in all situations.  Depth is always a key in Stanley Cup drives, and ours is the loudest to make one.   
  
  Q.  How big is that Carolina team?  How big is the difference of them with or without Doug Weight?   
 MICAEL PECA:  I am sure they will miss him in places in their game.  But guys get that opportunity that was Dougie's and they relish it and they step up.   
  
  Q.  Dwayne, how was your skate today?   
 DWAYNE ROLOSON:  Great.  Felt good.  Just part of the rehab.  Everything has been going well, just wanted to go out and test it on the ice.   
  
  Q.  Anything to be read into it?   
 DWAYNE ROLOSON:  Yeah, just try to get right into it and start skating.  Obviously no pads or anything yet, so it's just going to be a time thing here.   
 Got to wait make sure the timing is right because there isn't anything to do right now except just let it rest and try and heal and just try and stay -- keep everything linear.   
  
  Q.  Any chance of you playing in Game 7?   
 DWAYNE ROLOSON:  I don't think so.  As of right now it is just -- we haven't even tried the brace -- everything has been in a brace.  Haven't tried it without a brace.  Haven't tried going butterfly yet.   
  
  Q.  What percentage did you push yourself today, 30%, 50%?   
 DWAYNE ROLOSON:  Doing a lot of pivots and turns and just trying to open it up and see where there was pain and there wasn't any, so it was perfect.   
  
  Q.  Tougher to play in the Stanley Cup Final or watch?   
 DWAYNE ROLOSON:  A lot tougher to watch, that's for sure.  Wish I was out there, that's for sure.  But unfortunately I am not.  Do whatever it takes to help us win.  Be the best cheerleader out there and help the guys anyway I can.   
  
  Q.  Jussi hasn't won back-to-back games since November 3 and 4.  Now he has got to win back-to-back to back for you to win this thing.  What is his mental mindset right now?   
 DWAYNE ROLOSON:  You have to ask Jussi that.  I am not a psychologist by any means.  I should have went to school, got my doctorate in psychology.  I am sure he's fine.  He's really well composed.  He's a pretty down to earth guy.  I am just sure he's focusing on going out and playing the best that he can and giving our nice a chance to win.   
  
  Q.  Are you out there just to kind of feel you are involved, or is it to lead to more speculation that maybe you might come back?   
 DWAYNE ROLOSON:  It's part of the -- everything has been going really well with the rehab and.  We have been pushing as hard as we can, and this is just part of it.  It's the progression of the rehab.  Like I said, I haven't gotten down to a butterfly yet.   
 Everything has been just regular skating and wearing a brace.  To play, you can't really wear a brace right now.  At least for me anyways, so that's one of the reasons we're just trying to go out and push it and see where we're at.   
  
  Q.  It's been such a disappointment because of everything you did to get the team to this point.  Kind of nice to be on the ice with them at least, to be involved even though you can't be involved on the ice, in the locker room --   
 DWAYNE ROLOSON:  It is always nice to be involved.  But at the same time, I don't want to overstep my boundaries either to make sure that you are there for moral support and try to help the guys, whatever way you can.   
 Going out there, I don't want to take the distraction away from the team.  It is all about the team right now and to focus on winning the next game.  I am just trying to do my rehab.  I am not trying to do anything else.  Just try and be a good cheerleader for the guys.  Do whatever it takes to win.   
 SHAWN HORCOFF:  Obviously, if he's out on the ice he's going to be feeling better and on his way back to recovery.   
  
  Q.  The coaching staff here has a lot of Stanley Cup -- (inaudible)   
 SHAWN HORCOFF:  The experience in our room, I think MacT more so this year than any other year, has done a great job in keeping us calm and levelheaded.  There's so many ups and downs and momentum swings in the Playoffs.  That's the one thing that I have experienced in the playoff run that's taught me at no point can you get down, and no point can you get out of it until you lose that fourth game.   
 We feel the same way.  We don't view it as the large hurdle that it is for us to overcome.  We just take it one game at a time.  We got the first one, now we have to focus on the second one.  Anything can happen in a Game 7, bounce here, bounce there.  You can get that win.  So right now we're not looking too far ahead at all.  Focusing on tomorrow night.   
  
  Q.  The talk that they might be hurting is that an advantage?   
 SHAWN HORCOFF:  I think we still want to be physical.  More so than hurting, we just hope that their energy level is getting low.  We feel like we're getting our legs back now.  Our 4 lines are all skating well.   
 JUSSI MARKKANEN:  Definitely been a really good experience and really exciting time for me and the whole hockey club here.   
  
  Q.  A lot of people doubted you early on in the series.  Now you have got to feel pretty confident, with all of Canada behind you got to feel pretty good.   
 JUSSI MARKKANEN:  Obviously, it's a different feeling than going for Game, 2 which is my first game.  So I have a couple of games under my belt, but nothing have changed.  Got to prepare yourself for tomorrow's game.   
  
  Q.  What do you think prepared you for all of this?   
 JUSSI MARKKANEN:  Well, I think most important thing was to how our team have played in the last couple of months in the Playoffs.  Been really good run for us, and even you haven't play yourself, you kind of feed from that and get all the momentum.  Like you try to enjoy the run and the excitement kind of -- you get the same excitement doesn't matter if you are not playing.   
  
  Q.  How much of that pressure did you feel?  You come into that Game 2, all this team has gone through to get here, now it is all kind of on your back a little bit.  Did you feel any of that or still feeling it?   
 JUSSI MARKKANEN:  Like I said before, there's always pressure for a goaltender or pressure for anybody who is playing at this level, so just a matter that you have to control it and you have to go out there and just play the game, because that's the way you play your best and see what happens.   
 FERNANDO PISANI:  I haven't been in there too often, just been busy.  When I have time off, I want to relax and take it easy.  Haven't had time to go down there and enjoy it all.  Once the season is over I am sure I will go down.   
  
  Q.  Can you eat that stuff, or do you have to eat healthier?  Because I can eat whatever I want.   
 FERNANDO PISANI:  It's pretty good.  Hard to say no to it.  Once in a while you got to treat yourself.   
  
  Q.  Can you imagine this team being -- I mean, you are still down 3-2, but just doesn't seem like you couldn't be any more confident as a team, knowing that they are AILING a little bit?   
 FERNANDO PISANI:  Well, like I said, you can't get too confident.  They are a really good team, and we're still down 3-2 and they are still in the driver's seat right now.   
 At the same time, we got to keep levelheaded, make sure that we're ready to play when the puck drops tomorrow night.  We can't get too high or too low, and I think we have done a good job maintaining a level head.   
  
  Q.  (Inaudible)?   
 FERNANDO PISANI:  Every time I step on this ice you get butterflies in your stomach.  So excited driving to the rink and getting that butterfly feeling in your stomach there's no better feeling.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT