PLAYSTATION FIESTA BOWL: PENN STATE VS WASHINGTON
December 26, 2017
Will Dissly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
WILL DISSLY: ... this year there's a lot more fire in the guys in the locker room.  We're coming down here not for a vacation but to play in this big-time bowl game and to get after it on Saturday.   
 Q.  I guess ultimately what's the biggest thing you've seen from this Penn State defense?  Is there any comparisons to any other --  
WILL DISSLY: It's tough, Big Ten football teams, they're different than the Pac-12.  But one thing they do get, they don't make mistakes, so you're going to have to go out there and earn every yard, every play.  So that was the biggest takeaway; they don't really give up a whole lot of missed assignments, big plays, explosives, so we have to do a good job creating those on Saturday and get it done.   
 Q.  Being a senior, this is your last hurrah in terms of only a few more days and your career is over.  
WILL DISSLY: Yeah, definitely.  I think I've got all those emotions out on senior night.  It's fun to enjoy one more week just being with the guys every day.  Definitely want to cherish that and take it in.  But at the same time we're here to win a game and you've got to have good memories out of this last one so that's what I'm here for.   
 Q.  In terms of leaving the tight end spot better than you found it, do you think it's going to end up being better when you leave than maybe when you showed up as a freshman?  Obviously I know you moved as well -- you think it's leaving a better place?  
WILL DISSLY: I'm super excited about the tight end room and where we're at and the mindset.  And Coach Paopao has done a great job with all of us, working hard for us and trying to get us everything he can.   
But, yeah, we've got some good young bucks coming up here.  So Cade and Jake and Hunter, obviously you guys all know about him.  But definitely Jake and Cade are going to make some noise.  And Drew will do a good job leading those guys next year.  So I feel good about leaving the tight end room next year and watching them grow.   
 Q.  I don't know how much of their offense you've seen in terms of Gesicki and their tight ends.  Anything you can take away from his game or anything you can look at him and go, wait a second, I can maybe take some things there?  
WILL DISSLY: Yeah, he's a good player.  He's a good all around tight end.  I know he made some noise in the pass-catching game, and defense will have a plan for that.  He's a good player.  It's fun to watch him and just take notes, I guess.  But I think I'm a little different player, so it's hard to compare apples to oranges, I guess.   
 Q.  What would it mean to this team to get this win?  
WILL DISSLY: We've worked really hard to build this program and get to these big-time bowl games -- you don't get here to come down here Arizona and hang out; you get here to make a mark on the UW legacy and get a Fiesta Bowl under Coach Pete's belt.  And we're excited to get out here on Saturday.   
 Q.  What do you see on film from Penn State's defense, the biggest takeaway?  
WILL DISSLY: Yeah, the biggest takeaway so far they don't make a lot of mistakes, so we'll have to go out and earn everything.  I know their "D" line gets after it on the pass-rush game, so we'll have to go after that.  But it's going to be a big challenge on Saturday and we'll have to do a lot of things.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT