OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
January 23, 2020
Matthieu Pavon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Opening 69 here at the OMEGA Dubai Desert Classic. How would you analyse how you performed today?  
MATTHIEU PAVON: I played solid. I was really good from tee-to-green. That was the thing. I think I only missed maybe two fairways or three fairways and I make par on each of them, so that was the key of my day, like taking a lot of fairway, a lot of positive from there, and then after reaching greens and greens and greens, and finally I get some chances on the back nine.   
 Q.  We heard before coming into this week that the rough is a lot thicker, fairways are tighter, and the greens are rolling faster. There's no underestimating how much harder this course is playing this week. How much different is it to last year?  
MATTHIEU PAVON: That's like totally a different course. Like last year, you could be like way more offensive. Now, like it's a struggle even from the tees, because you have to fight some fairways which are narrow, and if you don't find them, it feels like you have a penalty stroke almost, like the rough are big and the green are firm. So it's a tough combination, for sure.   
 Q.  Some courses there would be obvious opportunities for birdies and some where you know you need to be careful, does it feel like 90 per cent of the time it's damage control and you need to make sure you don't put yourself in a bad spot?  
MATTHIEU PAVON: Yeah, that's funny, but I haven't played many majors, just a little, but I manage my game like today like in a major. I knew if I was missing some shots on the wrong spots, I could have a bogey. So I just try to play on the open sides and try to hit the ball as far as I could. For me, I think it's key to hit the driver a lot because even if you reach the rough with the driver, you are long enough to have option after that.   
 Q.  Your goals, your targets, what have you got your sights set this year?  
MATTHIEU PAVON: Nothing special. I'm looking for my first win for sure because I haven't won the past few years. It's more goals are about statistic goals. We are really good with my team. Every day I show up on the course, I just try to reach my numbers and if I do, I'm just happy to do it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT