U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 14, 2018
Matthieu Pavon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Great round today.  You are at plus 1.  Talk about what worked today and how tough are the course conditions.  
MATTHIEU PAVON: The course is really hard.  The rough is just so thick, you know.  So it was really hard to catch some fairways today with this wind blowing so hard.  We didn't expect that the few last days because it wasn't like that for the practice round.  I had really nice and smart play and I holed a lot of good putts, so it made me a good score today.   
 Q.  The course conditions, do you feel like they are going to get even windier today as the day goes on?  What are you going to do to practice for tomorrow's round given the wind?  
MATTHIEU PAVON: I mean, I don't know if it's going -- the wind is going a little bit up this afternoon.  It can be, but it was already tough this morning.   
The only thing I'm going to work this afternoon is like I was telling you is the pace on the green is really important and hit some really low and great drives.  You have to hit it low and then you can make it run on the fairways.  I mean, it's the most important way to play well, I think, here.   
 Q.  Did any of your balls move on the putting green?  
MATTHIEU PAVON: Yes.  Some balls are moving.  So I hope it's not going to blow too much this afternoon because they might stop a little bit maybe the game because the greens were a little bit humid this morning so the ball wasn't moving that much.  But now they are getting a little bit firmer and faster.  So yes, some balls could move today on some slopes for sure.   
 Q.  What from your practice rounds did you expect to be able to do today?  What did you see leading up to this first round?  
MATTHIEU PAVON: The thing I know is if it's not blowing, I can shoot a power shot.  I mean, the fairways are for U.S. Open, they are wide at some points.  So I thought it was okay, you know.  But this wind has changed totally because the ball is flying everywhere and a lot of the holes we are playing, the wind is not against.  So downwind.  It's just left to right or right to left, which makes the course really hard.   
 Q.  What impact did that finally have when you walk in with a plus 1?  How much did it shape your play?  
MATTHIEU PAVON: I mean, I'm already confident for tomorrow because I played well today.  So it's a really good point for me.  I know I have to work a little bit this afternoon because I have some things to correct to be even better tomorrow.   
 Q.  If there is any strategy for tomorrow, what do you need to do to improve upon a plus 1?  
MATTHIEU PAVON: It's like I told you, it's just hitting as most of the fairways as you can because it's really important.  You can be a little bit conservative from the tee because the main thing is hitting fairways.  Then the pace on the green is really important because they are slopey and fast, which is make putts even harder.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT