SIME DARBY LPGA MALAYSIA
October 8, 2015
Alison Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Did someone give you confidence?  I know that's a huge event, and to be a rookie in that environment and win on the final day kind of boost your team to allow Gerina to hit the winning putt there, was that huge for you going forward?
ALISON LEE: Yeah, of course.  I mean, not only did we win, but just to be able to be there and participate and be a part of something so great like that and to go into history with the biggest comeback ever, yeah, just be a part of it and experience all that definitely go down in the books.
Definitely learned a lot from it.  Especially seeing Gerina make that kind of putt, you know, gave me a lot of motivation to play well as well.
THE MODERATOR: You're one of the few girls out here still trying to do college as well as play professional golf.  You recently joined a sorority.  How are you juggling all that?
ALISON LEE: Honestly, I have no idea.  Right after Solheim I took one day off and started school right away and did my apartment and bought books and went to class, did rush.
Yeah, I don't know how I'm sitting here right now.  I don't know how I survived, but I did it somehow.  I feel like it's all a great experience.  I love still being in school and seeing all my friends back at school.  I haven't seen a lot of them since March because I took the spring quarter off, so it was nice to see all of them and friendly faces.
I feel like that's what keeps me going, just seeing a lot of friendly faces and having a great atmosphere and support base supporting me back home.
Yeah.
THE MODERATOR: Perfect.  Questions?
Q. Day one and already had a rain interruption.  How important do you think the number was that you posted today?
ALISON LEE: You know, definitely good.  It's always good to start off with a good number and be on the leaderboard.  There is still a lot of golf left so anything can happen, but definitely happy with my round today.
Started strong.  Always good to start strong, but I have to be able to finish strong if I want to do well.
Q. Something that really stood out for you today?
ALISON LEE: Well, nothing in particular.  I mean, for me, I just feel like I was putting really well.
Like I said, I got a brand new set of clubs, so I hit a couple shots a little here and there, but I was making a lot of the good putts.
I think I made a really good like 30-, 40-footer on one the holes for birdie, so definitely my putting was on today.
Q. Run us through the birdies and bogeys today.
ALISON LEE: After the rain delay my memory just swiped clear.  But I would say I was playing really well.  I did make one bogey on 17, on the par 3.  I missed a short par putt coming in.
Yeah, it was all a blur.  It was really hot out there today.  I was just trying to stay awake.  Yeah.
Q. Does it motivate you trying to get a win seeing Brooke and Minjee win, some of the girls you played junior golf with?
ALISON LEE: Yeah, definitely.  Being a rookie out here, I feel like it was a really kind of bold move for a lot of the rookies out here to be able to win.
After seeing that, definitely motivates me to be able to win.  I feel like I have the game and I have what it takes to be able to win.  I just haven't.  I've just had a couple weeks where I would kind of slip throughout cracks on a couple holes on one day.
Yeah, definitely seeing them wins motivates me and always assures me I can do it as well.  Like you said, we played a lot of junior golf together.  Hopefully just a matter of time.  Just have to stay patient.
Q. Just one more question.  Studies and golf, what's the process?
ALISON LEE: I feel like it's just time management.  Like I've studied and played golf my entire life until now if you think about it, so if I just quit school all of a sudden, that would be weird to me.
I took spring quarter off this year and it felt very strange not being in school.  Yeah, it is difficult, but I like it.  I try to do my best to kind of balance it all because I enjoy school and being there and learning and being out here as well.
So I feel like if you really want to do something, then you can pull through.
Q. And you changed your major recently to kind of help the professional golf career in a sense, right?
ALISON LEE: Well, I was going to major in international development and studies, but I starting college I've always wanted to major in communications.  It's a little more of a difficult major to get into at UCLA, so I didn't think I could get in.
But last minute I just thought, Why not just try and send in an application?  I think about last month or two months ago over the summer I got an email notifying me that I got in.
It was the week of Canada.  That was like the best week ever.  I got into communications and then I made it into the Solheim Cup, so that was like the best week ever.
Yeah, now I'm really happy that I'm in communications.  I feel like I could learn a lot from it and it could help me in my career in marketing.  Yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT