SOLHEIM CUP
September 20, 2015
Alison Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Alison, rookie year this year, many congratulations.  How does it feel to get a point on singles?
ALISON LEE: It feels great.  I feel like I was playing well all week.  But I couldn't get any points on the board going into yesterday.  So I'm really happy with finally winning a point for my team today.  So it feels great.
Q. Back on 16 was that little bit of a controversy.  Do you feel vindicated?  Were you moved today to come out and win after what happened this morning?
ALISON LEE: Yes, of course.  I really felt like we had that match, and I was sure we had that point for our team.  And losing that match and seeing all the girls surrounding me and giving me a lot of support and showing me that they had my back, it felt great.  And I think it really did motivate us all to play well in the afternoon and fire back.
Q. What did Juli say to you before you went out before the single matches?
ALISON LEE: She just told me to play my game and everything will work out.  Like I said, I've been striking the ball really well and I just couldn't get a few putts rolling in yesterday and the day before.  So I'm really happy with today.
Q. I have to ask you about what happened this morning.  It's tough?
ALISON LEE: Right on this hole?
Q. Exactly, on this very hole.
ALISON LEE: Well, to be honest, I knew we needed to win the point back so we can put a little pressure on them going into the last hole.  And I missed my birdie opportunity there and I think I had just under two feet, maybe a foot and a half.  And I could have sworn I thought I heard someone say, that's good.  It could have been from the stands, I don't know.  I looked at the putt and it was close, looked good to me.
And Charley was walking off the fairway, and Suzann was already off the green, so I have no doubt in my mind that it was good.  I didn't even have to think twice about it, I just picked it up.
As soon as I picked it up and started walking off the green, you know, all that happened.  But, you know, that just shows me that I need to make sure, and I need to double check before picking up any golf balls.  So I made sure I did that this afternoon.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT