CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 22, 2015
Alison Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Alison, you must be pretty happy with that?  
ALISON LEE: Yeah, definitely, I'm really happy with my round.  I was striking the ball really well.  I had a lot of opportunities for birdie out there today, so definitely no complaints there.  But yeah, overall I'm really happy with how I played and hopefully I can continue; I can play for tomorrow and hopefully the next few weeks.   
 Q.  After a round like that, do you feel it puts you in the mix tomorrow?  
ALISON LEE: Yeah, for sure.  Obviously they are not done yet but I will be in contention.  I'm going to be up on the leaderboard, so yeah, hopefully tomorrow I'm just going to play aggressively and do the best I can.   
 Q.  You've been in this position a few times already this year.  What did you learn from those experiences that you take into tomorrow?  
ALISON LEE: Yeah, I have been disappointed a lot this year for a couple tournaments.  I've been in contention a couple times but it was all definitely a learning experience for me.   
So yeah, I just need to be confident and I need to hit good shots tomorrow, and stay positive and take my time on each shot.  I notice I get fast and anxious during the round.  So yeah, just take my time and not expect too much and not get too ahead of myself, because I notice I do that sometimes, as well.  So just be thankful for being out there and having a chance.   
 Q.  Were you aware of where you were at on the Solheim Cup rankings heading into the week?  
ALISON LEE: Oh, for sure.  It's been everywhere.  I've been checking the rankings every second of every day.  I have been since I turned pro this year, just to see where I am.   
So it definitely been on my mind, and it has definitely put some pressure on me.  But I feel like I've used that pressure to my advantage, because I love playing under pressure.  So yeah, just the thought of potentially being on the team and hopefully now it's kind of getting more clear that I might be on the team.  So it's really exciting for me.  It's just great.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT