KINGSMILL CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY JTBC
May 18, 2015
Alison Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Great week indeed.   Today looked you had a chance after birdieing 15.   What was going through you mind at that point?
ALISON LEE:   Yeah, I knew going into today I had to birdie coming in.   That birdie on 15 really got it started and gave my motivation to finish out well.
Unfortunately on 16 and 17 I feel like I hit two good putts but they just didn't go in. 
Then on 18 I just kind of gave up on myself, and I shouldn't have done that.   Should've finished strong.

Q.   What will be the lasting memory from this week in terms of what happened on the golf course?   The finish on Saturday where you said that you thought that might come back to bite you?   Or how well you played the final round? 
ALISON LEE:   This has been a really interesting week playing on Sunday in the final group and having to come in and finish out on Monday.
But it's a new learning experience every week.   Even though I didn't come out on top this week, I really learned a lot.   I'll take it to every tournament I go and remember it.
Yeah, and I'm really happy for Minjee.   Her and I go way back.   We have had like a little rivalry since we were young.   So proud of her.   She's a great player.

Q.   Obviously you were scheduled to play in the U.S. Open qualifying today up in Richmond.   Have you heard any word on whether you'll be able to play tomorrow in California? 
ALISON LEE:   Yeah, my tee time is in 30 minutes in Richmond.   Won't make it.   Changed my flight\to today to fly into California tonight.   There is a qualifier California tomorrow, so we're working with USGA to see if I can try to qualify there.
But no word yet.   Crossing fingers.   We'll see. 

Q.   A long week for you guys out here.   What was going through your head when you woke up for your early tee time?
ALISON LEE:   It was like, oh, my gosh.   I actually slept really well.   This was the first time I actually slept through the entire night.   I was really tired after yesterday.   Yeah, like I woke up and I was refreshed and I knew what I had to do today.
I had to play really aggressive.   I did the best I could.   I gave it my best shot out there.

Q.   It definitely a battlefield all week and just a few holes this morning with Minjee in the lead.   Was there a strategy coming in? 
ALISON LEE:   Wasn't too crazy.   I've had 7:00 tee times before, and it wasn't just like that for me, it was like that for other players as well. 
So the best thing to do is just take the task at hand and just go with it.   If you complain or get too upset about it, you lose focus on what you need to do.   I knew what I needed to do today, so I put that aside and played my best.

Q.   As a rookie we've seen such a great performance from you this week.   We're only a third of way through your rookie season. 
ALISON LEE:   Yeah, you know, coming off an amateur career last year, I've already played the same amount of tournaments I've played in an entire year, and here it's not even halfway through the year. 
Yeah, a lot of golf left to play.   I'm still growing and learning every tournament, every week.   I learned a lot from this week.   So, yeah, just take it all in and move on.

Q.   When you look at yourself coming in down two strokes into the 18th hole, do you think back to Saturday?
ALISON LEE:   Yeah, of course.   When I missed my birdie putt on 17, definitely reminded me of the four‑putt.   I just can't read that green.   I misread it again today.
It happens.   Like I said I learned from it, and hopefully I don't make the same mistake again.

Q.   Have you got your situation with the USGA worked out?
ALISON LEE:   No, still working with the USGA to hopefully change my qualifying site.   There is one tomorrow in California like an hour, two hours from my house.   I've never played there, but I should be there in time. 
If the USGA allows me to play tomorrow, I'll probably so that.   Not sure yet.

Q.   Where were you to play in Richmond?
ALISON LEE:   Hermitage Golf Club. 

Q.   I saw you give Minjee a big hug and tell her how proud you are of her.   You guys pretty close?   You happy to see another rookie out here?
ALISON LEE:   I met her when I was 14 or 15 at a tournament and we've played together a lot growing up.   We've had a few rivalries back and forth at some tournaments.
At Q‑School we both co‑medaled.   Her family and I are good friends, so to see a fellow friend do well today it was exciting.   It was exciting and fun and a good battle out there for me.
Yeah. 

Q.   You said you learned a lot this week.   What did you learn about yourself, your game, and just your ability to get around out here?
ALISON LEE:   I learned that I have a chance out here to win, so it gives me confidence. 
I also learned that it's not over until it's over.   Not over until the very last hole. 
I feel like I should have been more patient coming into the last few holes.   I feel like yesterday and today I struggled on 17, and then on 18 today I feel like that was a poor finish on my part. 
Three bad shots in a row; shouldn't do that at a tournament.   Yeah, little things like that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT