KINGSMILL CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY JTBC
May 17, 2015
Alison Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Sleep on this again.   A Monday finish.   Just your impressions. 
ALISON LEE:   Yeah, it was frustrating.   I'm playing in the Women's Open qualifier tomorrow in Richmond.   You know, I'm going to have to forfeit that tomorrow obviously to play here tomorrow.
Yeah, I mean, I felt like I was striking the ball well today.   I really wished we could have kept it going today.
Yeah, coming back here at 7:00 a.m. in the morning.   I know I'm going to have to play aggressively being four strokes behind Minjee. 
So, yeah, I know what my game plan is going into tomorrow.   I think that's positive. 

Q.   Do you think you have any recourse with the USGA? 
ALISON LEE:   I mean, I guess I can try and speak to them and ask maybe if I can try qualifying at a different site.   I know they have one in California on Tuesday, and I should be back home by then. 
Who knows if the field is full.   We'll see.

Q.   Can you tell us what happened with the nose bleed?
ALISON LEE:   For me, I've had nose bleeds all the time since I was young.   For me, that's pretty common.
I've had a nose bleed every day since I've been here.   Just happen to have gotten it on the course today.   Thankfully it didn't last too long. 
Yeah, I was able to get back in it and play without having that all over. 

Q.   You birdied I think two of your first three holes today.   Clearly you were very comfortable playing in this situation. 
ALISON LEE:   Yeah, I've been comfortable all week this week.   I wasn't putting too much pressure on myself because I knew what I had to do today to play well; and I've been playing well.
So I just had faith in myself and told myself not think too much about the competitors and just have it be me against the golf course.   So that was really reassuring.
Yeah. 

Q.   Four shots back going into tomorrow with just a few holes left, how do you approach a situation like that?
ALISON LEE:   Like I said, I mean, I know four strokes is a lot.   One stroke is a lot, but four strokes is a lot.
I know I'm going to have to play really aggressively tomorrow.   I'm going to have a par‑5 that's possibly reachable.   I don't know with the conditions tomorrow if it's going to be wet or whatever, if I can do that, but I know I'm going to have to play aggressively for sure and take risks. 

Q.   We walked away from the TV.   Did you hit your tee ball at 15?
ALISON LEE:   No. 

Q.   So that'll be your first shot tomorrow. 
ALISON LEE:   Uh‑huh.

Q.   Have you ever had a finish like this that you can think of where final round play was halted and you had to come back?
ALISON LEE:   No, actually.   I've had it in between, but never on the last day.   So this is a different experience.
Like I said, I really like how I get to come back too.   I know exactly what I have to do.   It's not like I don't know where I am on the scoreboard. 
I know exactly what I have to do tomorrow if I want to take this.   It's all up to me.   It's me against the golf course.   No matter when Minjee does, I just have to play my best. 

Q.   How did things change for you?   You seemed in a nice groove early, during, and after the weather delay.   Was there any change you were specifically aware of?
ALISON LEE:   For me personally? 

Q.   Yes. 
ALISON LEE:   No.   I've played in a lot of tournaments and had weather delays before.   Nothing in particular that was different.
I did have a bad hole my first hole coming back on the par‑3.   I had a bogey.   Stuff like that happens.   Had to brush it off and move on.
Thankfully I was able to make a birdie on 10 and make up for it.   I did miss a lot of putts coming down the last few holes, but, you know, that happens, too. 
So, yeah, just prepare ‑‑ I'm just going to do my best to prepare for tomorrow.

Q.   When you saw the late tee times for today, did the thought even cross your mind, Yikes, we're not going to have a lot of wiggle room here and I've got to Monday qualify?
ALISON LEE:   Yeah, I did think about it definitely.   We had 2:55 tee time yesterday and 3:05 today.   It was about the same time.   You have to play with what you get no matter how much you complain or whatever. 
So I just took it and said, Okay, I have a 3:05 tee time.   I woke up, went to the gym, market, all that stuff.

Q.   What time was your tee time supposed to be tomorrow?
ALISON LEE:   It's like 8:00 something, and it's like an hour away. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT