KINGSMILL CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY JTBC
May 16, 2015
Alison Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   So what happened there at the end?   
ALISON LEE:   You know, I struggled on 17.   Poor putting.   That was a huge mistake.   That first putt I didn't think I would leave it that short.  
The second putt I thought it would break right to left.   I hit a really firm stroke, felt confident, and ended up breaking to the right and I had a poor putt coming back.  
So that poor putt was a huge mistake on my part.  
Yeah, I mean, going into the last day, I'm one shot back now because of that, so definitely I will take that into consideration and be more determined for tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   How long was that putt on 18, about 35 feet that you just missed?  
ALISON LEE:   I would say, yeah, around 30.   Also felt like a good putt.   But it's golf.   That happens.   You can't make everything.  
   
 Q.   Good way to finish for you?   
ALISON LEE:   Yeah, I was disappointed when I walked up there and left it a little long.   I noticed I was hitting the ball a little longer today.   I guess I was getting more aggressive with my shots.  
Yeah, I mean, like I said, overall I'm happy with how I played.   Just had that couple bad holes on 16 and 17.  
Overall I'm happy with how I played today.  
   
 Q.   Are you always so good‑natured?   I've seen golfers come off the course and they're not signing autographs and they're not talking to us, and you're smiling.   Seems like...  
ALISON LEE:   Yeah, for me, golf is just a game.   I've had plenty of bad rounds.   I don't want to waste my energy and pout about it, because I still have one more day and anything can happen tomorrow.  
Yeah, stuff like that just happens.   If I dwell on it too much it won't be good mentally and emotionally going into tomorrow.   Just trying to brush it off and move on.   
   
 Q.   You feel like your hiccup out there was a mental lapse and was it something you can learn from?  
ALISON LEE:   No.   I mean, for me, I feel like I hit a good stroke.   It was poorly read and poorly judged, I guess, on my part.  
Yeah, that's what golf is.   You learn from it.   You learn from golf every day.   You can't practice enough.   So that's something I need to work on more.  
   
 Q.   You must have been really pleased with the way you played early?   At one point you were 4‑under on the day.   Must have been very happy with the way you were striking and putting.   
ALISON LEE:   Yeah, all day I was hitting the ball well.   Even 16 I hit a good stroke; just didn't break as much as I thought.  
17, same thing.  
Yeah, I'm not too disappointed with my round.   Obviously I am disappointed with those two holes, and definitely affects where I am in position going into tomorrow.   I mean, one stroke is a lot out here, and unfortunately I lost two strokes on this hole.  
Yeah, just need to go into tomorrow with confidence and remind myself I'm hitting it well and not think about that hole or putt or whatever too much.  
   
 Q.   Do you read your own putts or do you have your caddie help you?  
ALISON LEE:   I read my own putts.   I'm a rookie this year, so I'm kind of slowly getting used to the whole caddie thing.   I ask for yardage and stuff, but I read my own putts right now.  
   
 Q.   What was it like having the late start today?  
ALISON LEE:   It was different.   When I saw the tee times I was like, Oh, my God.   I've never had a 3:00 tee time.  
I got up, slept in, and went to the gym.   Worked out for just over an hour and went to the local farmer's market near Williamsburg and spent an hour or two there.  
Went back, showered, and came over here.   So it was a pretty productive morning.   
   
 Q.   Repeat of that tomorrow morning, you think?  
ALISON LEE:   I mean, something like that.   Something to keep myself busy.   I don't like sitting there and waiting.  
   
 Q.   How early will you come out to the course for a 3:00 start?   
ALISON LEE:   I'll get here like hour and 15 minutes before unless I want to eat.   I practice like 55 minutes.   
   
 Q.   Your role has changed so suddenly, so dramatically over the past hour, from the time you were on the 16 tee to now.   Will that be a difficult adjustment to make mentally?  
ALISON LEE:   Yeah, of course.   It definitely is.   I am disappointed.   I was on the 18th tee looking at the scoreboard and seeing that I'm not leading the tournament anymore, but that stuff happens.  
You know, anything can happen tomorrow.   It's still another day.   It's not over.   So I'm just going to take all the positives from today, because I was striking the ball well and rolling the ball well except for one hole.  
So, yeah.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
ALISON LEE:   No, I felt like I hit a couple decent strokes.   I just misread it.   Especially coming down I think 15, 16, 17, I hit strokes that I thought were good, but it didn't turn out as well.  
I'm pretty sure that four‑putt on 17 will come back to haunt me later this week and tomorrow.   I learned a lot.   I'm just glad I finished under par today and just looking forward to tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   You said you learned a lot.   What do you think you learned today?   
ALISON LEE:   Just staying patient, not getting too ahead of myself.   After missing a birdie on 15, it did frustrate me and I did get upset about that.   I should have just let it go and moved on to the next hole.  
Tomorrow is going to be a battle, so I'm going to do whatever I can to stay strong and finish the round strong.   
   
 Q.   You said that four‑putt might come back to haunt you tomorrow.   Does that give more determination tonight as you prepare mentally for tomorrow's final round?   
ALISON LEE:   Yeah, of course.   Everyone makes mistakes.   Unfortunately that was a huge mistake at the wrong time.   
But that's golf.   I will definitely learn from it and make sure I don't make the same mistake twice.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT