U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 8, 2014
Alison Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  ALISON LEE:   Yeah, I just feel really, I think, disappointed in today because I feel like I made too many mistakes.   I had three three‑putts, and all of them I lost because I made bogey.   If I just stayed the course and played like I did before, I would have done okay, but I couldn't make the putts I needed to.   I don't know why, but I just tend to make putts down the stretch when I need to like on 17.   But yeah, I mean, I feel like we both didn't play too amazing today, but she's a great ball striker and I really respect her, and it was really nice playing against her today.

Q.   How far do you think your putt was?
ALISON LEE:   I want to say like 20 to 25 feet, I think. 

Q.   In terms of the three three‑putts, was that‑‑ you've been playing for a few days now.   Was that adrenaline?
ALISON LEE:   No I feel like I started off with a great putt on the first hole, and I was putting pretty decent this week, but after that first hole, missing that like four or five‑footer for par, after missing that, I just felt a little off.   I actually pulled that, and my next three‑putt I pulled it, and the bogey made back there, I pushed it. 
I guess part of it was probably a little bit of nerves because I was nervous coming into today knowing Brooke is a great player.   But yeah, I feel like I put up a good fight and just learned from everything I did today. 

Q.   Any reflection on your amateur career since‑‑ have you thought about that? 
ALISON LEE:   Yeah, I mean, I feel like this year, this summer, this is only my second amateur event.   I played the North and South a couple weeks ago, and my college career, I felt like I started off really well my freshman year.   Obviously coming into this event I set high goals for myself, and I'm really disappointed that I can't play tomorrow, but I'm really happy for Brooke and I'm glad she was the one that was able to take me down.   Hopefully she can make it all the way.

Q.   Drawing No.2 in the world in the quarterfinals, what are your thoughts on that?   Any extra pressure on that?   Kind of a tough draw there. 
ALISON LEE:   You know, in match play‑‑ I feel like that kind of stuff doesn't matter.   You just have to play your own game, and I feel like I couldn't execute that today, especially with my putting.   Normally putting is what saves me whenever I'm having a bad round or something.   But yeah, I mean, my putter just didn't work as well as I wanted it today, but you know, there's days like that.   It sucks that today had to be the day. 

Q.   A lot of USGA amateur events in your career.   Just kind of give me, take me through history and your memories of that. 
ALISON LEE:   Okay, yeah.   I qualified for my first U.S. Girls when I was 12, so that was the very first USGA event I ever played in.   I made the cut miraculously, but I lost my first match.   That was the first time I've ever played match play. 
I remember playing the U.S. Open for the first time when I was 14.   That was really cool.   Even like last year, I feel like last year for me, the U.S. Women's Am, that's the farthest I've ever made it in the Women's Am and then playing against Emma in the semifinals.   And lastly, I would say when I was 17 the U.S. Girls when I played against Minjee Lee and we played in the finals together and we played 36.   I thought I had it, but coming down the stretch I lost it, and I lost it on the very last hole. 
So yeah, there's been a lot of good in the past history that I've played in this event.   At the same time, disappointment, as well.   But for match play especially, it's a long battle to go through to be able to win.   I mean, I believe it's like six rounds that you have to play against someone else.   That's a long process. 
You know, I'm really disappointed that I couldn't make it all the way this year because I think this might be my last USGA match play event.   But yeah, like I said, today just wasn't my day, and I just need to learn from it and move on and do better next time, I guess. 

Q.   Has it hit you yet that this might have been your final USGA match play event or does it take a while to process that?
ALISON LEE:   Yeah, it hasn't really hit me yet because I'm still an amateur and I haven't really turned pro and stuff yet.   But it's really sad because these kind of events are a lot of fun, and I feel like match play is a lot of fun.   It's a different game.   And amateur golf in general, like having all the girls out here, even though we're all great friends and have to play against each other and have a battle out on the course, it's a lot of fun.

Q.   What impresses you the most about Brooke?
ALISON LEE:   I would say her ball‑striking.   Off the tee she was very accurate, and she was hitting the ball straight and long.   There were a couple holes where she missed it, but in general, she's a really good ball striker.   So yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT