U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 8, 2014
Alison Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   The world No.2 and the world No.3, that was a heck of a match‑up.   Tell me how you feel coming out of that. 
ALISON LEE:   You know, disappointed, obviously.   I feel like I just made too many mistakes out there today.   I had a couple good holes, but I had three three‑putts out there.   Like I said earlier, you can't win a match if you have three three‑putts.   Even one three‑putt is bad, but they just kept coming.   But yeah, obviously I'm disappointed, quarterfinals.   I made it to semifinals last year.   I was really looking forward to making it all the way this year.   I felt really prepared.   I've been playing decent.   But you know, there's always another event.   This is just one event out of the many I'm going to play in the future, so just learn and take whatever I can from this and just use it as experience because that's always a good thing. 
And yes, I'm going to be playing in Q‑school at the end of this month, so yeah, I'm just going to‑‑ like I said, I'm just going to move on from this event and hopefully I can not do that again, because for me, putting has always been my strength when it comes down to crunch time and stuff.   I've always been a good putter.   You know, I had a few good putts out there today, but I missed three really important putts inside five feet, and you can't do that in match play. 
But yeah, I'm really happy for Brooke.   She's a great golfer.   She's had a great year.   She's a great ball striker, so I wish her all the best.   I'm looking forward to watching TV and cheering on my friends, because all the girls out here, we're all friends. 

Q.   I hate to bring it up, but tell me about that lip‑out there, I think it was on 16 was it? 
ALISON LEE:   Yeah.   You know, I thought I had a good‑‑ I hit a good shot, and I had about 10 feet for birdie, and I knew I was 1‑down going into that hole and I knew I had to do something.   I only had three holes left.   I gave it a good roll, but I hit it a little too firm, and I still had like a 3‑footer coming back.   It was left to right.   I don't know why, but I kept thinking about the past two three‑putts I had, and I had pulled those.   I missed those because I pulled it, and that putt was like left to right, and I pushed it. 
So I think part of that had to do with a little bit of nerves.   I was nervous, obviously.   But yeah, there's nothing you can do about that.   That's golf, and that's what makes it exciting. 

Q.   So you're really looking forward to Q‑school?
ALISON LEE:   Yeah, I'm really excited.   I do want to play for the team, and thankfully I can in the fall.

Q.   So the scheduling does work out?
ALISON LEE:   Yeah.   But yeah, I feel like I'm ready to play professional golf and play against some of the greatest golfers out there because I feel like my game has been getting better, and I feel ready, and I want to be out there and compete against the best and push myself and move up a step.   I mean, I feel like my first freshman year in college has been awesome.   I feel like it's helped me a lot.   It's helped me improve my game and who I am as a person.   But yeah, I wish I could continue that because I loved it so much.   I love my team.   I love my coach.   They've done so much for me.   But yeah, it's just the tournament aspect.   I just want to go out there and compete.   People think it's about the money, it's about the fame, whatever, but for me it's just about the competition.   I love the competition.   I feel like I can move on to the next level, and that's what I want to do, and test myself and see where I am. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT