CURTIS CUP MATCH
June 6, 2014
Alison Lee
Ashlan Ramsey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Tell us about the last three holes, quite a comeback there. 
    ALISON LEE:   Yeah, we were leading the entire round, and the tables were turned coming into the last few holes.   There was a lot of pressure coming into the last three holes especially and I feel like No. 16 was a turning point for us.   Georgia hit a really great shot and put pressure on ash land.   Ash land hit a great shot, too.   Luckily I was able to make my putt and put pressure back on them and turn the tables.
    She had a great shot on No.17, as well but I missed that putt and she made it on 18.   I'm really happy with our half point that we managed to grab at the end of the round.

Q.   How long were the putts? 
    ASHLAN RAMSEY:   Alison made probably a 15‑footer on 16 and I hit it to seven or eight feet on 17.   It lipped‑out and she hit a great putt and on 18 I made a 6‑ or 7‑footer.   It was crazy to have the momentum change like that and squeeze a half point out of that match.

Q.   How nervous were you over the putt on 18? 
    ASHLAN RAMSEY:   Pretty nervous.   I would say that was one of the better putts I've ever hit.   That was awesome.

Q.   When it's going back and forth, back and forth, how much motivation did you have on that approach shot on 18 to make sure you stuck it? 
    ALISON LEE:   I was first one to hit and I knew I had to stick it to, you know, get us up one, because I knew we had to end with a birdie.   And I love shots like that.   I love being under pressure and having those kind of shots, and it's just so much fun.   I feel like I really saw the shot well and she had a great stroke and made it in.   It was a great match. 

Q.   Is the event everything you thought it would be? 
    ASHLAN RAMSEY:   Yeah, it's actually way more.   It's a lot more pressure.   It's a lot bigger crowds.   It's a whole other feeling than just playing for yourself, which I think is what makes this event so special, and just the support behind it and all that goes into it, it's unreal. 

Q.   Do you guys look at the board?
    ALISON LEE:   Obviously we continue to look at the scoreboard to see how our teammates are doing and where everyone is at and obviously we want to win our match.   We just do our best.   We don't want to think too far ahead because it's match play.   It's one hole at a time so we just do our best to keep one shot at a time.
    ASHLAN RAMSEY:   We knew that we had to make birdies coming in the last few holes.   They didn't really bogey and they didn't really give us anything all day, which is expected on this level of field.   We knew what we had to do and we executed pretty well.

Q.   You talk about how you love those kind of shots.   When did you figure that out in the course of learning how to play this game, how much you liked those kind of moments? 
    ALISON LEE:   All throughout my junior golf career, I loved playing in tournaments and being under pressure.   My dad would always tell me, you need to learn how to love pressure.   Over the years after playing tournament after tournament and being in those kinds of positions where I would be tied for the lead or I need something like that‑‑ yeah, that's why I love the game so much.   That's why I love golf. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT