LPGA KEB HANABANK CHAMPIONSHIP
October 15, 2016
Alison Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Congratulations on another great round today.
ALISON LEE: Thank you.
Q. You had one bogey on each half and then followed up with birdies.  Can you run us through your total round and how you were able to bounce back?
ALISON LEE: Yeah.  Like I said, the past few days, all week, I've been striking the ball really well.  I've been giving myself a lot birdie chances.
Even though I shot 4-under today, I still left a lot of birdie putts other there.  I'm really happy with how my round turned out.
On No. 3 I missed like a three-footer for par.  I three-putted and that kind of spooked me a bit.  I was able to bounce back from that with four birdies, which was awesome.
Yeah, I feel like I got off to a rough start, but I stayed in the game.  I knew that there was a lot of golf left to play, so I just kept striking the ball and was hitting it well.
Q. Do you think you're able to mentally bounce back better now that you've been out here for a while, been in this situations before?
ALISON LEE HYUN OH: Yeah, I would say so.  I've played golf for a long time, since I was six.  I played my first tournament when I was eight, so I've been in a lot of situations like this.  Obviously this is at a different level, but I feel like junior golf and college golf and playing in a few professional events as an amateur really prepared me for moments like this.
Especially with last year, you know, getting a few Top 10s last year and being in contention last year as well pretty much helped me with that, being focused mentally and not getting too ahead of myself.
Q. How did you deal with sleeping on the lead in your younger days, and how do you think it'll be tonight?
ALISON LEE: I think it won't be too bad.  I've been in this situation before.  I mean, I do have a few strokes ahead of the field; I feel like there are a lot of birdies out there you can get, and a lot bogeys as well if you get in the wrong spot.
So it's still anyone's game.  I have to go back and do some reading for class, so that'll keep my mind off it for sure.
Q. What are you reading?
ALISON LEE: I have a lot of --I have reading for every class.  I'm behind in every class.
Q. Run through the class schedule for me.
ALISON LEE: Monday -- I could pull it up right now.  I'll pull up my class schedule.  I was only in class for a week and I came to Asia.
On Mondays -- it's nice.  I don't have very many morning classes.  On Monday, 3:30 to 4:45 I can COM 133.  Then I have World Arts and Cultures from 6:00 to 9:00.
And then Tuesday morning from 9:00 to 10:00 I have discussion.  Also on Tuesday from 2:00 to 5:00 I have COM 10; then Wednesday 3:30 to 4:45.
Then Thursday is my worst day.  I have class straight from 2:00 to 8:00.
No class Friday.
Q. Will your teachers give you any extensions if you win an LPGA event?
ALISON LEE: I've only talked to one of them regarding me being a professional golfer, because all the other classes I'm going to be there for midterms and finals.  I didn't have to talk to the professors because they don't take roll.
So we'll see.  I have a couple midterms, but I doubt I'll get any extension.  They don't really do that, but it's fine.
Q. Are you in a sorority?
ALISON LEE: I am.  We have a lot of sorority stuff when I get back home, too.  We have big/little reveal on Thursday where I get my little sis.
Then we have presents, which is like a ceremony we do for our little and we have some date parties coming up.  Yeah, a lot.
Q. And you might get to go to a football game.
ALISON LEE: I'm going to every football game.  I haven't missed any home games yet and I don't think I will, which is awesome.
Q. Is your dad at home?
ALISON LEE: He is at home.
Q. Is he staying up through the night to pay attention to this?
ALISON LEE: That's a good question.  I think he did last night.  The first night I don't think he did, because my mom tried calling him after the round and he was sound asleep.  My mom was like, Why isn't he up watching your scores?
Yeah, everyone back home is cheering me on.  Even my roommates and some of the girls in sorority.  They know nothing about golf, but they've been tuning in to the Golf Channel once in a while, which is awesome.  I've been getting a lot of friendly texts from back home.
Q. Were the crowds or the fans different at all today?  You've been leading the past few days.  Do you feel like a larger size?
ALISON LEE: Yeah, I would definitely say a little larger size, especially being in in the final group.  Still constant support out there and cheering everybody.  Every single hole I hear someone saying, Alison (indiscernible), which is awesome.  So a lot of love and support from the fans out here.
Q. In your group today were fellow 2015 Solheim Cup members.  How did that change the dynamic and make it more fun?
ALISON LEE: Yeah, it was cool.  All of us were on the team.  All of us use PXG clubs as well.  We had a lot of laughs out there today.  We're all really friendly and have gotten really close since Solheim Cup.
Yeah, it was a fun day today.
Q. Do you have any plans for tomorrow?
ALISON LEE: Nothing too major.  Like I said, I've been hitting the ball really well.  I made a lot of good putts today.  I missed a couple, but I did make a lot of good putts today as well.  Nothing too major.  I just want to stick to my game.
I feel like if I play tomorrow like I have been the past couple days, I feel like I'll throw in a good round for tomorrow.
Q. How important were the putts on 5 and 6?
ALISON LEE: I think huge, starting 4.  Bouncing back with birdie after bogey and doing that again on the back nine, I feel like that's really important.
So, yeah, I mean, I kind of -- that kind of gets me -- when I make a bogey, especially through a mistake, kind of gets me a little angry, I guess, and gets me more focused.
So, yeah, I think the bogey almost helped because it kind of snapped me back into the game and got me more focused.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT