LPGA KEB HANABANK CHAMPIONSHIP
October 14, 2016
Alison Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: We're here with Alison Lee again.  You finished the day at 2-under and started with a birdie.  Very good start.  Run us through your play today.
ALISON LEE: Overall today I feel like I played pretty well shooting 2-Under.  Unfortunately on the back nine I struggled a bit.
I didn't make any of the putts I looked at on the back.  I missed a lot of birdie putts coming down.  On 10 I think I actually 3-putted.  I think that's what got me scared.  I just couldn't get the ball in the hole.
Thankfully I had an eagle on the short par-4 which kind of brought me back.
Yeah, I would say I'm a little disappointed with my round today because I feel like I could have played a lot better, but I'm not complaining with 2-under par.
THE MODERATOR: What will you work on today before tomorrow?
ALISON LEE: Nothing too much.  Like I said, coming down the stretch I missed a lot of putts, so hopefully try and eliminate that.
I pulled probably three or four putts and didn't touch even the hole.  I need to kind of work on that for tomorrow and just try to trust my stroke and putt more confidently.
THE MODERATOR: Questions.
Q. So I think yesterday you mentioned that you were okay with the faster greens and that it worked for you yesterday.  I think you mentioned just now that in the front nine it was okay and then seemed like you were having a little more difficulty on the green in the back nine.  Can you tell us about that?  What was more difficult today?
ALISON LEE: I putted really well on the front nine, yes.  Then on the back when I had that 3-putt on 10 I actually had a downhill birdie putt like 15 feet and just hit it way by, like six, seven feet, and then missed the par putt coming back and pulled it.
Then after that I had a few putts around 15 feet and continued to pull it.  Just kind of lost my stroke and wasn't as confident when I was putting.
I wasn't committing to the shot or committing to the putt.  I left a couple short; left some long.  I just wasn't in tune.  Just lost my feel on the course with my putting on the last few holes, so that's definitely something I probably want to work on and focus on for tomorrow.
Q. For most of us who spent our college years in a drunken stupor, the idea of playing a full schedule and going to school would be something we couldn't imagine.  Yet as school has picked up, you seem to be playing better.  Is it a distraction or is there something about having that full schedule that makes your game better?
ALISON LEE: That's a really good question.  I honestly don't know.  Yeah, in the middle of the year I definitely did struggle and I wasn't in school.  I am in school now and playing really well.
It's the same as the very beginning of the year when I played in my first event in the Bahamas.  I shot a really great score my first round and I was like, How did I even do that?  I haven't been practicing as much as I used to or should be because of school.
I feel like having that tough schedule and being busy all the time kind of keeps me grounded and focused on what I need to do.  I use my time more efficiently.  So when I practice I focus more because I know that's the only amount of time I can use to practice.  When I am studying I know I have to study harder because that's the only amount of time I have to study.
So I feel like it keeps me more focused and in check and on the right track, I guess.
THE MODERATOR: Could you talk briefly about Se Ri's ceremony yesterday?  You're in your second year on the LPGA Tour.  How did you feel during the ceremony, and what was it like to be a part of that event?
ALISON LEE: I thought it was really cool.  It was really cool to be a part of and really cool to see, I guess not only for me, but for Se Ri as well to see how many people just love her and the impact she's made on this country and in women's golf and for me as well.  I grew up watching her play golf and I know she was definitely one of my role models and one of my dad's role models as a well.  So it was really cool.
I was definitely teary eyed.  A lot of girls around me were teary eyed.  Just showed what a huge impact she had on all of us.  It was really cool to see, and I was really thankful I was able to watch her play on the LPGA Tour and also play against her on the LPGA Tour and now see her retire.  To see that whole process unfold I think was really cool.
Q. You've won a lot of tournaments on every level.  Do you feel like you put a lot pressure on yourself to win out here?
ALISON LEE: I mean, yes, I would say I've definitely pressured myself to be able to win out here.  It's definitely one my huge goals.  I do have a lot of high goals for myself while I'm on tour.
Yeah, I mean, that's something I've always done and something I feel like we need to do.  It's allowed me to push myself to play better.
So, yeah, like growing up, you know, college, junior golf, and even before that, I've always been on top.  Definitely been a struggle the past few years not being able to win yet, and seeing a lot of my friends that I played golf with growing up win like Jessica and even Minjee Lee being the same rookie class.
Yeah, I would definitely say a lot of pressure, especially this week I'm in a good position to win this week.  Hopefully I can get it done.  It's a huge goal/dream of mine to win out here.  I'm going to do my best to try not to think about it the next few days and just play golf, and hopefully everything will just fall into place.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT