LPGA KEB HANABANK CHAMPIONSHIP
October 13, 2016
Alison Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Great round, Alison.  Tell me what really worked for you today.  The greens I heard were really quick and hard.  How that sort of helped or hurt your play today.   
ALISON LEE: Yeah, the greens I would say definitely were really fast and slick.  Especially putting downhill it was pretty fast, and if you had a pretty long putt it was pretty hard to judge how the speed was.   
But today I got on the green a lot.  I gave myself a lot of chances at birdie.  Putting was definitely one of my strengths today.  It's definitely what helped me shoot 7-under.  I made have a lot of good birdie putts.  I think I only missed one or two putts inside 15 feet.   
Overall today I felt I played really solid.  Didn't make very many mistakes except for that one hole where I made bogey.  Overall really great day.   
THE MODERATOR: Last year was your rookie year.  How is your approach to tournaments different this from your rookie year?  How would you describe year one versus year two?   
ALISON LEE: I would definitely say I feel more comfortable out here this being my second year on tour.  Last year every tournament I played in was a brand new golf course.  It was difficult for me to get used to a new green every week, a new golf course every week.   
Having played already one year, I would come back to the golf courses and feel confident.  I would definitely say it's a different approach.  Like this week I actually got here on Wednesday because I had an outing in Vietnam.   
So it would've been really difficult for me last year to have done that, but this year, since I've already played the golf course was a lot better.  I know where everything was and how the course worked.   
Also throughout the year I feel like it was a lot less stressful.  Since I knew the golf course, I didn't really have to practice a full 18 every time or as soon as I got to the golf course.  I was able to rest more and give myself free time instead of just having to grind out there and tire myself out through the week.   
So, yeah.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions.   
 Q.  You missed five cuts this year because of your shoulder problem.  You feel that's coming back into form as the season winds down?  
ALISON LEE: Yeah, I would definitely say so.  I actually injured knew shoulder back in February and I didn't know what was wrong.  My swing was changing and all that and I definitely wasn't performing the same way I used to.   
If definitely -- it hurt a lot, a huge portion of my mental game.  I was struggling a lot on the golf course not only because of my injury, but because I was scared.  I was scared of the ball.  I didn't know where it was going to go.   
So definitely was really tough mentally going through that, missing all those cuts.  Like I said, last year I played very well, and I had a lot of very high expectations for myself this year.  So very disappointed in that.   
But I am very happy with where my game is now.  Top 10 last week, and past couple months I've been playing a lot better and being on the leaderboards.  Definitely happy with where my game is now.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT