MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 16, 2016
Alison Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. It's been a little while since you've been in this position.  What's this feeling like going into a Sunday in contention?
ALISON LEE: It feels great.  Feels like I'm playing golf again.  I'm actually having a great time out there and committing to the shot and watching the ball go where I want it to go.  I feel really confident going into tomorrow.  It's definitely been a while since I've felt like this, but it was worth the wait.
Q. What's the mindset when you go into a day a couple shots back but you're in one of the final two groups?
ALISON LEE: It's tough.  One more day, two more holes.  Anything can happen, honestly, for tomorrow.  You never know, so you just have to go in with an open mind and do your best.
Q. Do you put a number out there that you feel like you have to get to to win this?
ALISON LEE: I try not to.  I feel like sometimes that can get in the way, and you kind of put too much pressure on yourself.  Golf is a huge mental game, so I'm going to try my best to not look at the leaderboard too much and just hit it one shot at a time.  I mean, I'm the type of person that does like to look at the leaderboard and likes to know what the score is, but yeah, for tomorrow, like I said, I just want to take it one shot at a time and take it slow and just play confident golf.
Q. The youth on the Tour has been pretty cool to see this year, and four of the top 5 are 21 or under.  How crazy is that?
ALISON LEE: Yeah, it is crazy.  It's cool because a lot of my friends, we pretty much grew up playing junior golf together and played college golf together, and now we're out here.  So yeah, I do think it's crazy.  A lot of girls coming out here straight out of high school or only a couple years out of college like myself.  But it just shows there's so many girls that are just ready and their game is on point, and they have what it takes to compete out here.
Q. How is your shoulder feeling?
ALISON LEE: It definitely feels a lot better than a few months ago.  It does tighten up once in a while and I can feel it, but I've been doing a lot of physical therapy and getting it loosened up and getting work done on it and focusing a lot on my swing.  I feel like it's getting better.  It's moving towards the right direction.  Obviously surgery was an option, but it's something I want to kind of avoid as much as I can.
Q. Are you done with school for the year?
ALISON LEE: I'm actually taking a summer class right now.  I'm taking one summer class right now, and it ends in two weeks, and then I'm taking another one right after that, and then I'm going to be taking four classes in the fall.
Q. Is that like an online thing?
ALISON LEE: Right now it's online, uh-huh.
Q. So a little less on your plate?
ALISON LEE: Definitely, compared to a couple months ago, definitely.
Q. Does that let you focus on golf more?
ALISON LEE: Yeah, a little bit.  I kind of like having something to do when I get back.  It keeps my mind off of what's out here, especially going into tomorrow.  The last thing I need is to be thinking about tomorrow's round and imagining it over and over again in my head.
Yeah, school, in my opinion I feel like it's -- I love it, and I love all the people that I've met there.  Great support system.  I actually got a few texts from some friends who literally know nothing about golf but they keep up with me all the time, which is super great.  But yeah.
Q. Obviously you want to win every tournament, but did you envision yourself being at this level of contention coming into today?
ALISON LEE: No, honestly.  Like I mentioned before, I had a pretty good year last year.  I had high hopes for this year, and I definitely struggled the past couple months, and I didn't know when I would be able to come back and be in contention again.  So playing well this week has definitely boosted my confidence and showed me that no matter what happened the past couple months, it's always a new day, it's always a new week.
Q. Do you look at tomorrow any different being where you are on the leaderboard?
ALISON LEE: Like I said before, I try not to.  It's just another round of golf.  That's literally how you have to look at it, and sometimes that's when you play your best.  Yeah, I think I'm just going to go into tomorrow just thinking it's another day of golf.
Q. Somebody may have already asked you this, but it seems like you finished really hot.  What was it like there at the end?
ALISON LEE: I just felt really in tune with my swing.  All my approach shots, I was hitting it well.  Putting felt really good today.  I did miss a couple putts, but other than that, I felt like just overall I was hitting it really solid.  I just felt really confident over the ball.
Q. Obviously you want to win; I'm sure that adds pressure.  Do you enjoy playing with the pressure?
ALISON LEE: Yeah, for me I love playing under pressure.  My dad almost pretty much brainwashed me when I was younger, like enjoy the pressure, pressure is fun.  He would always put that in my mind.  I definitely do, and Hyo Joo, she's a great golfer.  I was able to compete with her a few times last year, and she's a fierce competitor, so I'm really looking forward to tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT