MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 15, 2016
Alison Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Tell me about your round.  
ALISON LEE: Yeah, finishing birdie, birdie, birdie on the last three holes was great obviously.  I haven't had a good round like this in a while.   
To be honest, I struggled fairly a lot for the past like about four months.  Feels great to shoot under par again.   
 Q.  Were conditions different from yesterday to today?  
ALISON LEE: No.  I would say they're similar.  Playing in the morning there wasn't as much wind out there for me.  Coming in the last few holes we had a little bit more of a breeze coming in so it played a factor.   
Other than that, I feel like the conditions were similar to yesterday.  The pins today were a little bit more tricky.  Tough on the edges.  I had a difficult time getting them on the green the first few holes, but I tried to play as smarter on the back.   
 Q.  How do you see things playing out on the weekend knowing that people have been going 5-under par each day?  
ALISON LEE: You know, golf is like that.  We play out here every week.  I don't try and get the number in my head too much.  Just try and play my game and do my best.   
 Q.  You bogeyed on the first hole.  How did you rebound after that and get yourself up mentally to have this kind of round?  
ALISON LEE: You know, I had a few bogeys yesterday as well, so I told myself that I still had 17 more holes to play and there were a lot of the birdie opportunities out there.  I was striking the ball fairly well and I felt really confident over all my putts, so I wasn't too worried after the bogey.   
 Q.  You look at this as a springboard?  
ALISON LEE: Yeah, of course.  Like I said, for the past four months I was injured and I struggled mentally.  I missed a lot of cuts and I had a lot of high hopes for myself this year.  So definitely that really set me back the last few months.   
It feels great now again to be, like I said, in contention and playing well.   
 Q.  What were your injuries?  
ALISON LEE: I tore my labrum in my left shoulder back in February.  Probably missed six, seven cuts in a row.   
 Q.  Does that wear on you mentally?  
ALISON LEE: Yeah, of course.  It definitely does.  Like I said, that's (indiscernible.)  I've been in that place where I struggled a bit for a while, but I had a lot of great support to get me back on track.   
It feels good now.   
 Q.  You feel like it's coming along now?  
ALISON LEE: Yeah, of course.  Like I said, I had a fairly good rookie year last year, so I was hoping to top that this year.  I was very disappointed obviously with my performance the last few months.   
It's coming around, so I'm really looking forward to this weekend.  I feel confident with how I'm striking the ball right now.   
 Q.  How important is that resilience to you, not just today but overall with what you went through?  
ALISON LEE: It's obviously definitely important.  In the year we play more than 20 tournaments, like week after week, and we can't let something like that get into our head too much.  We have to try and balance that for the next week and do well.   
Like I said, I definitely struggled with that.  I feel like it's coming around, and I'm doing my best to keep my head up.  I feel like this week definitely shows how hard I've been working and trying to get back from that place.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT