BREEDERS' CUP WORLD CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 7, 2020
Aidan O'Brien
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Congratulations with Order of Australia.  What a big price, but 1, 2, 3 as well in the Breeders' Cup Mile.  Just sort of tell us about Order of Australia and what made you think he was ready to step up to this big effort today.
 AIDAN O'BRIEN:   Yeah, thanks very much.  We always felt that a mile on fast grounds, flat track, was exactly what he wanted.  He's always shown that in his work and in his homework and we felt that maybe we were running him too far.  He had a very good run in the French Derby and then this is kind of the first time that he really got conditions that we felt that he really wanted.
 Q. And then today with obviously the scratch and he draws in off the also eligible and then you pick up the riding services of Pierre-Charles.  We just had him in here discussing his trip and he said he had spoken to you prior to the race about how to ride this horse.  Just explain kind of what you told him.
 AIDAN O'BRIEN:   Yeah, no, we went through the race.  Pierre gave him an unbelievable ride, really.  We had discussed that Pierre was going to go forward and he would probably be just behind the leaders, maybe he might have Circus Maximus on his inside and he gave him an absolute brilliant ride, really.  So I think it went exactly what the way Pierre was wanting it to go.  But, like, I know, listen, it was a brilliant, really, to watch.
 Q. Yeah, and 13 Breeders' Cup wins now for you and then running 1, 2, 3, your other two horses as well, fantastic efforts from them.  This was the longest price ever in the Breeders' Cup Mile.
 AIDAN O'BRIEN:   Yeah, I didn't realize that.  Yeah, but I suppose obviously Circus Maximus might have been our most fancied and then Lope Fernandez, and then this horse.  I suppose nobody knew much about this horse coming back to this trip.  This is the first time ever for him to race at this trip and on a flat track with fast ground, really.
 Q. And then just tell us quickly, I think somebody mentioned that he was actually bred by your wife.  Is that correct?
 AIDAN O'BRIEN:   Absolutely.  Yeah.  That's right.  Absolutely.  He's a half-blood of a horse that won at Breeders' Cup last year and he has another half sister that won at Santa Barbara, so that's her last three foals, that mare, so obviously it's I rebred him which makes it extra special.
 Q. Well I know y'all are not done yet with Magical coming up in the Breeders' Cup Turf and just tell us a little bit quickly what we can expect from that?
 AIDAN O'BRIEN:   Yeah, no, she seems to be in good form, so looking forward to seeing her run.  She seems to have come out fast as well, so hopefully she runs well.
 Q. Also just reminding everybody listening there on the press conference that we do have Aidan on right now, so joining us late here and Aidan, along relationship, obviously with these winning connections, Derrick Smith, Mrs. John Magnier, Michael Tabor, you all have such success worldwide and all the Breeders' Cup success and everywhere, but how much all these mean for your stable and your team and we saw Pat Keating afterwards over here representing.
 AIDAN O'BRIEN:   Yeah, so absolutely.  We're so delighted for Mr. and Mrs. Magnier and Mr. and Mrs. Tabor and Mr. and Mrs. Smith, they put so much in day-in and day-out for us all, it keeps us all in time, but they invest an awful lot of money, all the way from breeding the horses, buying the mares, buying the yearlings and it's such a big operation, we are so appreciative, all of us and we're just so delighted for them when it does come off.  But they put a lot in all over the world really and for us it's a real pleasure and privilege to be working for them.
 Q. Quickly again describe the horse coming into this race and how you felt that this mile trip today would suit him very well.
 AIDAN O'BRIEN:   Yeah, no, we always thought that this was his, we always felt like, as the season went on, we felt that this was his thing, a mile on fast ground, a flat track, he's a very strong traveller, and he quickens very well.  It's the first time that he got the conditions that he really wanted, really, but he's been working very well and I suppose our biggest worry was that he wasn't going to get into the race, really.
 THE MODERATOR:   Well things worked out for the best for Order of Australia and we wish you were over here celebrating with us but congratulations to you, your entire team and the connections, Order of Australia and running 1, 2, 3 in the Breeders' Cup Mile and best of luck coming up in the Breeders' Cup turf.
 AIDAN O'BRIEN:   Thank you.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT