WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC POOL ONE: SAN DIEGO
March 16, 2009
Christian Presichi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Good evening and welcome to the press conference following Game 3, Cuba versus Mexico. Representing Team Mexico we have Christian Presichi. 
 Please share your view of the game. 
 CHRISTIAN PRESICHI: Well, I think that we didn't do small things. I think that Cuba played best. Unfortunately, their batting was much better than ours, and somebody needs to win, and I think they played a better ballgame. That's baseball. 

 Q. Christian, after the record that Mexico is going home with, do you think this is a great defeat? 
 CHRISTIAN PRESICHI: I think so, because this team had a lot more in it. Unfortunately, we did not do the things that we were supposed to. Batting was up to par, pitching as well, but, unfortunately, they played better. 
 And I think that the Mexican team will be improved for the next World Classic. 

 Q. Christian, why do you think you guys struggled so much offensively, especially after all the runs you guys scored in Mexico City? 
 CHRISTIAN PRESICHI: Well, as you know, the stadium in Mexico City, it's a batting park. On this team, we had several power players, and you noticed that Cuba, when they played against us, they batted three home runs. I think this is a difficult park, if not the most difficult park, in all of the major league baseball. I think it's one of the most difficult. As I said, the Mexican team is a power team, and I think that's what it is. 

 Q. Christian, what was your last adjustments for your last turn at-bat, the adjustment? 
 CHRISTIAN PRESICHI: Well, after being hit by that ball, and no hit at my first Classic, I had that hunger to hit, and I couldn't go without one. So thank goodness I got that pitch, and I did a really good connection. 

 Q. Christian, do you think that, well, the little experience of Venicio's, do you think it affected the Mexico team, because he's fairly new? 
 CHRISTIAN PRESICHI: Well, I don't think so. Venicio [] is a star, he's done a lot for Mexican baseball, and I think it's all up to baseball players. All of us baseball players had to bring the very best of our own game, and I don't think Vinny affected us at all. 

 Q. Christian, can you tell us about the spirits at the end? Did Vinny tell you something? Tell us about the locker room experience. 
 CHRISTIAN PRESICHI: After elimination, it's a sad situation. And all of Mexico and ourselves, we were sure we were going to go farther. 
 In regards to Vinny, he is a person that really speaks to you with lots of respect. He congratulated us, he thanked us for participating and giving our all. That's how baseball is, one wins, one loses, and unfortunately it was our turn to lose. 

 Q. Do you think that the World Classic should be at a different time of year because the players are starting to get on their rhythm? 
 CHRISTIAN PRESICHI: Well, yes, I think so. As you've probably noticed, a lot of baseball stars do not want to participate because they have to be with their own teams. Unfortunately, the last Classic and this Classic, a lot of players have been injured. And we think that, you know, this is -- if not after major leagues, I think -- well, I guess that would be a really good time for the Classic, after major leagues. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT