JOHNNIE WALKER CLASSIC
March 3, 2007
Simon Hurd
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  When did you get up today?   
 SIMON HURD: Five o'clock. Saw my wife and daughter and came here in the dark at 5.30 and was warming up in pitch darkness as well. It was like Tin Cup - and my round was like a story from Tin Cup! It was a nice round. I played well, a bit of a surprise because I haven't scored well. I got on a roll with a 2 at the second and that kick started me. I hit 15 greens, which is solid.   
    
  Q. Did you need anything special last night?   
 SIMON HURD: I asked my caddie Wayne on the17th and he said at the last I had two putts to make the cut so I lagged it up and made sure I didn't do anything silly. I know I can play the game. It's just having the confidence to prove I can play at the highest level. People have watched me and asked why I don't do better, but it's all about belief. It will come. I am still young at 31. Playing a round like that gives you the confidence at this level. This Tour is good. I lost my card in 2005 and played my whole year out here and finished in the top 50 last season. No disrespect to Asia, but it's a step back to go two forward, like Simon Dyson did. He lost his card and came here and got confidence by easing into it.   
    
  Q. Are you based here?   
 SIMON HURD:  Yes, my home is St Albans but we rent a place in Hua Hin here in Thailand. Nice amenities for my wife Liz and my little daughter, Evie, who was born on the 3rd of December. They are chilling out at the hotel.   
 I play next week, TCL then go back to England to spend some time with my coach and I hope for some invites back home during the summer. That's the goal, to earn enough money to edge a few invites. I've been grinding. I played well in Malaysia and Indonesia but missed the cut in Jakarta and that deflated me. I am either high or low as a person but this makes it all worth it. I work with Stuart Morgan, who used to be at The Grove but now at Mill Ride. He is teaching out of there. We've been together for three years and he knows his stuff.   
    
  Q. Anything special today?   
 SIMON HURD: I hit solid shots - great 7 wood into the 9th and hit it good on the back nine and holed 20 footers back to back for birdies. Nice to hole these ones. Another 66 would be great tomorrow. Just try and shoot low tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT