NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: STARS v DEVILS
June 9, 2000
Derian Hatcher
Joe Nieuwendyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Could you take us through the last 15 hours, what time did you get back to the hotel
last night; what time did you leave this morning? Did you sleep on the plane what
happened?

DERIAN HATCHER: Basically I don't know, we had a bus ride, I think, 45, 50 minutes
whatever, somewhere in there, to a hotel, I am not even naming the city it was in. 11:00
bus this morning and I don't know, three hour flight and then we -- I think we tried to
land twice and we had to circle back around, seems like it just dragged it on a little bit
longer.

Q. Given the way you won the game last night would you guys be at a high watermark
confidence-wise and now the Devils are shaking their heads a bit after the way you won
that Game?

DERIAN HATCHER: Well, maybe a bit. Obviously Jersey really, really wanted to win that
game last night. We have been in the same situation but up 3-1 and the last thing we
wanted to do was go to the other team's ice for a Game 6, then you really never know what
happens. I think the further the game went on last night the more we kept saying, if we
can win this one, boys, we are going to be right there. You never know what is going to
happen.

Q. Defensive-wise talk about how you guys improved in that game --

DERIAN HATCHER: Well, I think we improved. We talked about defensemen really making
sure they are back. We really wanted to try to out-limit the two-on-ones so far,
three-on-twos, so forth, but I mean they still had their chances. What can you say, Eddie
played great. But I think overall the team in general had a better recognition of who was
on the ice and where they were at.

Q. Did you guys talk about getting the right matchups because it seemed like Sergei and
Darryl were struggling a little. Last night they put them against Arnott early on, it
seemed to give them a lot of confidence; they seemed to really pick their game up...

DERIAN HATCHER: I don't know what was going on last night. (laughs) No, I think last
night they just wanted to get everyone into the game and roll (inaudible) the defensemen
more, if anything, I think they wanted Darryl and Zuby to play with Mike's line. I know
for a lot of the night I felt we were out there with Joe, so really the matchups weren't
talked about.

Q. Keep going that way, especially with you having the matchups in this Game?

DERIAN HATCHER: I don't know. I am sure we haven't really talked about it too much of
it. I am sure tomorrow morning we will get that all figured out.

Q. As players it is harder to play at home in the Finals than it is on the road? Seems
like if you look in the past the home team really struggle in the Finals?

JOE NIEUWENDYK: Well, I think, you know, we put ourselves in the position being down
3-1 where we had to go into their building and have a big effort and we did that. Coming
home, I think we are nothing but confident right now. I think we realize although it is
going to be a tough game because they could play well on the road, some points of this
Playoffs they have even played better on the road than they do at home. So I think we are
well aware. That it is going to take our best effort again tomorrow night, but we are --
we have a little bit of confidence right now.

Q. Can you talk about how --

DERIAN HATCHER: I really can't sum it up much more than Joe just said. I know one
thing, I'd rather be playing at home tomorrow night than on the road.

Q. Can you talk about how you are after the stick in the face; looks like you have got
swollen (inaudible) ....

JOE NIEUWENDYK: There was a lot of guys getting sticks in the face last night. It was a
war out there. But I just think that we really were committed what we had to do last night
and we were getting a lot of opportunities. There were so many different line combinations
you didn't know who you were going over the boards with at any time. It just seemed like
everyone was playing for one another.

Q. Joe, could you talk a little bit about coming back from the next game, the challenge
it is going to be presented both physically and mentally and which is maybe going to be
more difficult? 

JOE NIEUWENDYK: Physically I think there is no doubt we will be ready. Today is a tough
day obviously, but we will get a good meal tonight and good rest and be ready to go
tomorrow. Mentally, I think we are -- we may have an edge. I'd like to think we do. Last
night we said after the second and into the third overtime, if we can win this game this
could be a real tough loss for them. Because they had the party ready. They had everything
set to go. We took it away from them. That hurts them, you know, we come home with our
home fans now. It is going to be a big night tomorrow night.

Q. Growing up, did either of you guys have a team that you watched that got down real
deep and you remember them having a big comeback or do you have a favorite comeback in
sports history not just hockey, in any sport?

JOE NIEUWENDYK: You were a Red Wings fan?
DERIAN HATCHER: No, never was -- I saw the Capitals actually come back a couple of
times.

Q. Do you guys feel now -- I mean, Modano talking little about it that the pressure is
now on them and do you guys feel that that with you guys winning that game, it really kind
of shifted the momentum and the pressure too?

JOE NIEUWENDYK: I think the momentum has shifted, but I think, you know, they are a
pretty experienced hockey team and they are going to regroup. They are going to recollect
themselves and be ready to go again tomorrow night. They play a solid road game and like I
said before, we have to have our best game again tomorrow night. That is what it is going
to take to win.

Q. Joe, sort of -- do you feel -- Hitchcock after the game 4 - said that game had
ripped the heart out of you guys. Do you feel last night might have perhaps ripped the
hearts out of them after that night?

JOE NIEUWENDYK: Well, I think it hurt them real bad. You go that long and you are that
close to winning a Cup and you come up short, it is hard on those guys in that locker
room, there is no doubt about that. But I think they are going to get over that because
they are obviously still needing this series and they feel good about themselves. So we
are not getting too excited yet. We have accomplished what we wanted to and that is to win
in their building but we have got a long way to go.

Q. Are you physically all right? Looked like at the end of the game that you might have
been --

DERIAN HATCHER: I am all right. Just decided -- no, I mean, obviously after however
many minutes of hockey there was last night I think guys that, you know, a little bit
tired, muscles maybe start to cramp a little bit, so forth so on. But actually I feel
pretty good today.

Q. Did you cramp up toward the end of the Game 2?

DERIAN HATCHER: No, I didn't. But I mean, some guys might have. I don't really know
what you are talking about to be honest. I mean, I was tired.

Q. Could you talk about Brodeur, anything about him you know from this series having
not faced him a lot --

JOE NIEUWENDYK: Well, I think last night was by far his best game of the series. He was
real solid in the net last night. He made some big saves for them. Seems to get better as
the series goes on here. We don't see him a lot. We just you know, but he is a quality
goaltender. He has made some big saves for them, but I think we are getting some better
opportunities now. We got some good looks at a him last night. We hope to continue that
tomorrow.

Q. You guys skated with the Cup last year in Buffalo. Any worse feeling to watch the
other team skate with the Cup on your home ice?

DERIAN HATCHER: That would be a bad feeling. I think to win Game 5 and to allow that to
happen, you know, I mean, that would be a horrible feeling. Like Newey said, we did what
we wanted to do in Game 5 now we are back on our home ice. Obviously we are confident that
we can win tomorrow night much but we will try our best not to let that happen.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT