FED CUP - BELGIUM VS. USA
April 24, 2005
Els Callens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Can you now look back on this Fed Cup experience and kind of just breathe a sigh of relief almost that it's over or what can you take away from it? 

ELS CALLENS:  I think it was important to see how this team was, and I think especially to prepare for the coming tie in July.  And I think everybody played okay, I think, and did what he (sic) had to do.  I think that was a good team spirit, and we did what we could do.  I mean, this is -- if you play a team like this, it's not very easy.  It's a very difficult task.  I think we fought, we kept our heads high, and that's all we could do, is like fight for the last point and play what we have inside.  That's all we can do against a team like this. 

Q.  Were you heartened bike the very young players like Eveline? 

ELS CALLENS:  What? 

Q.  Were you pleased with what you saw from the future generation of Belgian tennis? 

ELS CALLENS:  Of course, yeah, it's not a Kim or a Justine.  Yeah, I think it's all right.  They've been out there a couple years already in the challengers.  It would be nice to see them break through now.  And I think maybe matches like this can give them a little bit of experience.  Maybe they'll progress. 

Q.  Can you talk a little bit about the match today.  You seemed to stay with her in the first set, but then she kind of pulled away. 

ELS CALLENS:  Yeah, it was less windy than yesterday.  Yesterday was pretty hard to play.  Today I was serving really good and I was keeping up with her.  A bit of a shame from one break, which went to deuce anyway.  It was a pretty close set and I think I played pretty good the first set.  And then it got a little bit more windy.  She started to return also better.  I think she got more grip into the match and she pulled away from me there. 

Q.  Your team obviously was aware you were coming in against great players, and you were really the only veteran with any amount of background behind you.  How difficult is it to try to keep up during the weekend knowing what you're going to face or did you not even think about it? 

ELS CALLENS:  Yeah, sometimes you realize.  You think especially, you know, when they call the teams out on the court.  Like the first day, I was like, "Oh, my God."  It looked like almost an impossible task (laughter).  Then once I was on the court, I felt like, "Come on," and I was trying to pump myself up and try to move well, try to play every point well, run for everything, try a little bit of risk.  I didn't want to leave the court and say yesterday -- that's why I said yesterday I tried everything.  I tried everything.  I don't want to let my arms hang.  I just want to say, "Come on, this is what I'm worth, I did my best."  I think that's how you should come off the court if you play players like this. 

Q.  If you took this US team and then took the best of the Russians, how do you think that would play out? 

ELS CALLENS:  Of course, it's a different story when you play away and home.  I think it will be an interesting tie actually.  Then I think it's up to the captains to play best against which player and maybe play around a little bit.  But I think it will be interesting.  I think it also would be an interesting time if Kim and Justine were here. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT