FED CUP - BELGIUM vs USA
November 20, 2003
Els Callens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Such a dramatic turnaround from yesterday.  Did you have any doubts from yesterday's performance?  How were you able to turn it around?  Maybe coach gave you encouragement?
 
ELS CALLENS:  I told yesterday already after my match that Lisa was playing out of her mind.  I played okay yesterday.  There was nothing I could do against her because she played a perfect match.  Like she said before, she likes the surface very much.  I don't like it that much.  I think there is a nicer surface to play on because it's pretty sticky.  For my game, it's okay, too.  But I'm really not fond of it.  I think the only difference from yesterday is that I served better today.  I also said yesterday that Meghann, her game suits me better than Lisa's game.  
 
Q.  What is it about her game you feel suits you? 
 
ELS CALLENS:  Well, she has a more steady game.  Lisa will play slice, topspin.  She will mix up the rhythm more.  It's a bit like I do, so we have a bit the same game.  Meghann is playing more topspin, usually more the same game.  I think she has a bit of a pattern in her service game, so I know a little bit where she's going to serve.  So I feel it better.  Some players you like to play against, and others you don't like to play against.  
 
Q.  Did you feel when she caught up at 4-All that you might be in trouble? 
 
ELS CALLENS:  Well, I didn't play a great service game there.  I was pretty upset.  I was a bit disturbed by the noise in the crowd.  I know usually against top players like that, it's not good to let them back, like throw a little fish to let them back in the match.  Once you're there, you squeeze and you keep squeezing, you don't let them back in the match.  But I knew from previous match we played in Leipzig, I won in two tiebreakers there, I knew it could be difficult, but I still was believing in my chances and said, "Stay calm. " Luckily I won the tiebreak.  
 
Q.  Are you ready to play the doubles?  Who will play with you? 
 
ELS CALLENS:  Of course, I'm ready to play doubles.  With who, I don't know yet.  I think that will be depending on this match a little bit, on how it goes.  
 
Q.  Do you know what's the reason for this replacement of the player in the match going on?  Was it a decision of the coach or you as a leader of the team also had something to say about it?
 
ELS CALLENS:  No, the coach has my opinion about who was the best player of the three to play Lisa.  I tried a little bit to play a lot of slice against Kirsten, and Kirsten didn't like it so much.  I think the coach also saw that and chose to put Elke.  He was doubting yesterday.  If Kirsten was feeling fit enough today, he might have also put her on the court today because she played a fantastic match yesterday.  But she was physically too tired.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT