U.S. SENIOR OPEN
June 27, 2019
Wes Short Jr.
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Good playing out there or not as good as you wanted?  
WES SHORT JR.: No, I played all right.  Hit quite a few fairways, missed a few coming in, and hit a lot of greens, though.  A lot of them weren't real close sometimes, but it was a pretty good round.  I haven't been playing great this year, so it was finally good to get off to a good start.   
 Q.  Was 2-under about as good as you could have done?  
WES SHORT JR.: No, I could have made a few more.  I missed a few like on 1 and 2 starting out, had two real good opportunities, and then a couple other times had a couple of good ones, but I made some putts, too, so I'm not going to complain at all.   
 Q.  The golf course between yesterday and today after the rain, was it significantly different, or --  
WES SHORT JR.: The fairways were quite a bit softer, so if your ball would stay in the fairway if it was pushed in or cutting or whatever, and it would kind of stay in the fairway.  Made them generous.   
 Q.  Did the course play a little bit longer in because the ball didn't carry so much?  
WES SHORT JR.: Yeah, it wasn't rolling so much.  The course played quite a bit longer than it did yesterday.  The greens were great, though, so they're not as firm as they'd probably like them, but we like them like they are.   
 Q.  You said you didn't hit it that close.  With these greens, guys have been talking about you're not going to see a lot of putts made, but you said you made a few?  
WES SHORT JR.: I made a few.  I made a couple nice ones on like 12 and 13 I think it was, a couple of 20-footers probably, 25-footers.   
 Q.  I thought you weren't supposed to make those.  
WES SHORT JR.: Well, the greens are really good, so if you get them on line, they're going in.   
 Q.  What has been the thing that kept you from playing well this year?  
WES SHORT JR.: You know, I can't really put my finger on it.  I haven't been playing very well.  I mean, kind of sucks when you try to -- I mean, you're practicing all the time and trying to figure it out and just can't sneak it over to the first tee.  But like I said, it was a good start today, so hopefully I'll be on the right track.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT