BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 22, 2007
Tom Whitehouse
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   TOM WHITEHOUSE:  Played solid.  Tried to get off to a decent start, and I felt yesterday that that nine, the front nine, was going to be slightly easier because there's a bit more water and trickier shots on the back nine, a couple of good holes.  Tried to get off to a fast start but to be honest didn't really happen; although I gave myself some chances.  I was a couple under after nine.  6 and 8, good birdies, but I wanted to be at least a couple under early on but I couldn't get them.   
 I was playing quite solid.  I probably hit one poor shot which is my tee shot on 10 into the right rough, no lie, made bogey; take your medicine and carry on.   
 And then, you know, I had a really good finish again, I birdied 15, and 18 and I think I birdied 13 as well, I didn't bogey 14 which is quite a keyhole around here, which is good.   
  
  Q.  Don't take this the wrong way, but despite this being a good score, surprised to find yourself where you are on the leaderboard?   
 TOM WHITEHOUSE:  I don't think it's that easy.  It's not that easy.  I mean, if you miss the fairways, you're struggling and you can get some shocking lies.  I'm not saying that's a detriment to the rough length.  It's the right length.  You get penalised for bad shots and obviously you get rewarded for good ones.  But, yeah, it's good out there.  I quite like the course; it's good.  Definitely playing better than last year.  It's a bit warmer and drier.  Last year it was windy and wet and hard work.  Hopefully this year it might serve me a bit better.   
  
  Q.  You didn't expect people to pull away and move up?   
 TOM WHITEHOUSE:  I felt 10 would be the best at the end of the day in my own honest opinion.  At start of the day, I was coming to the course and I thought, right, I'm eight behind, try and get as far up there as quick as possible.  I aimed for 7 and got 6.  I'll take that.   
  
  Q.  Have you been chatting to Sam Walker, your cousin?   
 TOM WHITEHOUSE:  Yeah, told me some pretty good stories, some things that happened, the crowd shouting him and cheering and some of the things they say.   
 I think he loved it by the sounds of things.  Would have been a great week for him.  Back to reality for him I suppose.  I'm sure he enjoyed that.   
  
  Q.  Did that spark your appetite of having another go next year?   
 TOM WHITEHOUSE:  Absolutely.  Yeah, definitely.  I think if you start slowly in the season, it's probably not your best thing to end up -- if you get off to a fast start, it's a good thing to do, because you can go over there and almost lose confidence; if you're shooting in the 80s all the time and think, well, it's not good enough really.  Everybody is capable of shooting in the 80s at that tournament.  So it's almost like a brain-out week and just kind of get on with it and then you take what you get at the end.  But I'll definitely have a go, I want to go to British qualifying, I want to play in the majors, that's all there is to it.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT