DEUTSCHE BANK PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP OF EUROPE
July 28, 2006
Tom Whitehouse
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.
I won't ask you to take me through the round because it would take an age, but tell me particularly about the 9th.
TOM WHITEHOUSE:  I actually hit it a touch left of where I was trying to hit it off the tee and it just run through the fairway, but it wasn't a bad lie.  I was right in between a 9 and an 8, and I thought, well, the water is at the front, and to be honest I wasn't really playing for the distance where the flag is.  It's five paces on the green.  So I was kind of trying to hit it two or three yards past it, and it came out    it was on line but I thought it was going to pitch in the middle of the green, and it seemed like it pitched right next to the hole, and I want, ooh, and it went in, and I thought, "that's weird."  Obviously I was happy, but when we got up there the pitch mark was actually past the pin.  It had actually come back into the hole.  It was obviously meant to be.  Fantastic.
Q.  And you win a car.
TOM WHITEHOUSE:  I win a car.  I win a brand new TT that apparently isn't on the market yet.
Q.  You'll keep it, won't you?
TOM WHITEHOUSE:  Yeah, the girlfriend will be all over that, I'm afraid.  No chance.  I'll probably keep it.  They're really nice.  It's quite ironic, just a month ago I had a little bump    well, I thought it was a little bump in France which turned into my car being written off.
Q.  So your girlfriend is not getting the car?
TOM WHITEHOUSE:  So the girlfriend can get her grubby hands off it, yeah.  It was quite strange standing on the par 3 thinking, if I knock this in, I've got an estate and a TT.  I could fit the TT in the back.
Q.  Put it in the context of the overall round.
TOM WHITEHOUSE:  It was absolutely roller coaster.  I started okay, and I was just going along okay, and then I made an up and down birdie on the 6th to make me 2 under, and I thought, okay, we need a new game plan here because it's really not going well.

So I thought, well, I'll move the ball back in my stance a little bit and see what happens.  I hit a decent drive, got on the green, holed a putt.

Then I did the same down the next, hit it 230, so two in a row.

Then I holed it on the 9th, and I'm thinking, 6 under par now.

Then a great chance at 10 and that hung on the edge.

11 was okay.

12, I holed a putt from off the back fringe.  I thought, well, we're flying here.

Just when I thought, great, just keep steady and get through these next couple holes and then you've got the par 5s.  I hit it just right, pitched it on the hard bit, runs over the back, onto the cart path, trickles into the water.  There's like a little ditch there.  It was perched up and I thought I could still get it on the green, I can still hack it on.  Anyway, I tried to hit it, and I just thinned it straight into the thing and stuck right in the face of the thing, and I had to drop.  I hit a great chip and missed it from about two and a half feet, so then I made 7.

I thought, here we are, back to square one.
Q.  Are you thinking when that's happening, we've still got a car?
TOM WHITEHOUSE:  Occasionally I still flitted into it and out of it.  Oh, I've got a car.  But I tried not to think about it.  Then I hit it to about two inches on the next hole with a 3 iron, birdied the next, par, birdie, horrible shot at the last and scrambled for par, and I came out thinking I feel like I shot 2 over and I shot 7 under.
Q.  Ever had a round like it?
TOM WHITEHOUSE:  Actually nowhere near it at all.  If I played well and scored well and kind of been really consistent    but it was all over the place.  It looked like I was going to make every putt.  It was a big help obviously when you feel like you're going to hole it.  But it was just so strange, but I'm happy, of course.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT