QUINN DIRECT BRITISH MASTERS
May 13, 2006
Tom Whitehouse
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TOM WHITEHOUSE:  I got golfed at the last. I hit my drive six or seven yards right and it went into the bunker and I had absolutely no lie at all. Just had to hack it out. Hit a seven iron a yard short of being stone dead and it comes back down to 50 feet away. Hit two decent putts which didn't go in. Other than that absolutely flawless. I couldn't have played any better. Hit a lot of fairways and greens and gave myself a lot of chances.

I couldn't really fault myself. I stuck to my routines really well and I was pleased about that. I didn't think ahead. That is golf at the end of the day. That is why it is so frustrating at times and so good at others. But can't fault myself. Hit a driver five yards right. If I keep hitting them five yards right for the rest of my life I'll be happy.
Q.  You don't get as upset now as you used to?
TOM WHITEHOUSE:   No, just get on with it. It doesn't do you any good to get upset about it. That is one of my strengths. I handle it pretty well and it's all good learning. Still building and getting there slowly. I enjoyed it.
Q.  Nice to have home support?
TOM WHITEHOUSE:  It was nice. They were still out there when it was raining. I would have liked to have finished with a par for them. Get them all excited for tomorrow. I am probably a bit further down than they would have liked but at the end of the day it is golf. Tried my best. I actually hit six good shots on the last hole. I'm a yard from a 4-footer for a par.

Had a quick look at the leaderboard. Didn't bother me. I thought  that's good. It's where I want to be. There was a long way to go, 27 holes. Whether I have a chance or not, probably not against the calibre of players but you never know. If you get off to a good start like I did today and they don't move anywhere.
Q.  What's your best score here?
TOM WHITEHOUSE:  Probably that one. I haven't played that much, about 12 times last year and five times this year. It has always been wet and windy. That is the best I have played on this course.
Q.  Where do you live?
TOM WHITEHOUSE:  About four miles away. At Coleshill. Go back and have some lunch now and watch the Cup final.
Q.  Tomorrow?
TOM WHITEHOUSE:  Just try and do as good as I can. I am trying to build for something bigger and better and I am getting there slowly. I have come on a lot from two years ago. Shouldn't get too carried away. But it's good with a bit of expectation. Makes it a bit more fun.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT