LPGA KEB HANABANK CHAMPIONSHIP
October 19, 2014
Kyu Jung Baek
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:     It's my honor to welcome in the 2014 KEB Hana Bank Championship winner, Kyu Jung Baek, into the interview room.   
Congratulations.   Now, you just have to tell me, was this a dream come true?   Did you expect this at all this week or was it a shocker to you?   
KYU JUNG BAEK:   So coming into the championship, my goal was to get in the Top‑10 but after a really solid third round yesterday, my goal this morning was to get into the top 5.   But I have to say I guess I was a little bit more conscious because of winning because I was so nervous this morning, I kind of couldn't sleep.  
THE MODERATOR:   Let's talk about the nerves last night and this morning.   You lost sleep last night, and how did you feel going to the first tee alongside Inbee Park?   
KYU JUNG BAEK:   I have to say, the nerves didn't hit me then and I'm used to playing with Inbee and least I don't know, so I actually started off this round very comfortably and I was actually looking forward to a really exciting day.   
THE MODERATOR:   Talk about the back stretch when you saw on the leaderboard that you may be weren't in the lead anymore, but you rattled off five straight birdies.   What happened in that stretch?   Did you think, all right, I have to get something going here on the back nine?   
KYU JUNG BAEK:   So in the front nine, I 3‑putted what I thought was a relatively easy hole, so I did bogey and that kind of showed me mentally‑‑ I have to say on the front nine, I was just barely saving pars and I finished the front nine on even par.   And I also was aware that the leaderboard was pretty packed.  
So going into the final nine, my goal was to come into the top 5 and so I really concentrated on every hole and I started making birdies.   It all started to kind of work for me from then on.   
THE MODERATOR:   What was your thought process walking to the 18th hole knowing you had a tie for the lead but could possibly win it outright?   What was your thought process on the 18th tee box?   
KYU JUNG BAEK:   So going up to the 18th tee box, I knew I was tied for the lead and in the back nine, actually In Gee was doing very well.   She was making birdies and I was making birdies.   Going to 18, I thought we were tied‑‑ and then In Gee missed a birdie putt and I thought this was my chance.   But I also missed the birdie putt.   
So at the time I was kind of angry and frustrated at the same time.  
THE MODERATOR:   I saw your head down on the scorer's table.   You were visibly frustrated.   How did you mentally get back to your mental stability going into the playoff?   How did you regroup?   
KYU JUNG BAEK:   So my initial goal going into the back nine, like I mentioned earlier was getting in the top 5.   So I was satisfied with where I was and I knew that I could win or lose in the playoff.   But my strategy was that even if I lose, I wanted to play really confidently and aggressively.     
   
 Q.   After the third round, in an interview you said that even if you get the LPGA Tour card by winning, you want to take time to prepare.   Do you still feel that way or do you have a change of plan?   
KYU JUNG BAEK:   So last night, I was thinking about what would happen if I would win because I was in the lead, about whether I would go to the LPGA, but my conclusion last night was that I should try to win first.   But now that I have won, I'm not sure what I want to do.   I think that I have to talk about it with someone.   
   
 Q.   So in the playoff, Brittany missed what seemed like a relatively short putt.   What was going through your mind while you were preparing for your putt?   
KYU JUNG BAEK:   So even before the playoff, I was in a similar situation for a similar shot with a similar break and when I saw Inbee missed birdie, I thought that this was my opportunity.   When I played the LPGA Championship‑‑ I focused and was aggressive.   
   
 Q.   So more specifically during the playoff, I think Brittany was 105 meters from the hole and In Gee was in the hazard, and in that situation, you actually were able to be much closer than any of the other players.   Were you at all nervous?   What was going through your mind?  
KYU JUNG BAEK:   So I knew that could have made me more nervous but not so much, when I saw Brittany's ball, I thought that I just have to be aggressive.   
   
 Q.   On the final hole, what clubs did you use for your second and third shot, and how long was the distance?   
KYU JUNG BAEK:   My tee shot landed in the rough so I used my 24‑degree to the tee and usually I get 80, 85 out of that and my second shot was 75.   The third shot there was 69 meters left.   I was in a similar situation before the playoff, 65, and at the time‑‑ my third shot in the playoff, I didn't really consider the wind.   
   
 Q.   Was there any problem or any pain?   Just an update on your back?  
KYU JUNG BAEK:   I started with the support belt this year.   Actually my back started hurting slightly this year, just slightly uncomfortable but it progressively got worse.   I went to the hospital and they recommended that I take some time off so I actually took a week off.  
Afterwards it doesn't hurt so much but I have a support belt on more as a precautionary measure because I don't want to over‑exert my back.   During the competition, it didn't hurt at all but now that I'm finished with the tournament, I think it's maybe because I'm tired, it's a bit painful.   
   
 Q.   I think what got you to the playoff was the five consecutive birdies.   Is that your best record?   
KYU JUNG BAEK:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   And the last hole, what was the distance left?   And lastly do you have any comments you want to share with family or friends?   
KYU JUNG BAEK:   So I had one meter for the putt in the playoff, the final hole of the playoff.   And you asked me if I wanted to thank anybody especially and there are so many people who supported me since I was very young.  
Immediately off the top of my head I have to thank Mr.Na of the hospital who was treating me after my back started hurting, so I want to thank him.  
On the second day I was in the same group with SeRiPak and one of my wishes was to play with her on the LPGA before she retires, and so I thought it was a really great birthday gift for me.   But on the field, she actually encouraged me a lot and gave me a lot of confidence, and so that was really good.  
Of course right now I'm thinking of all the other players that were in this championship.   
   
 Q.   So I understand as a long hitter, since you've been playing golf, your ultimate goal has been to make it to the LPGA.   So I know that right now you've just mentioned that a lot of things are going through your mind and you need to think about it.   But is your long‑term goal to indeed go to the LPGA?   
KYU JUNG BAEK:   Ever since I've been playing golf, the LPGA has been my dream and I think any player when they first start off, their ultimate goal is the LPGA.   
You mentioned that I was a long hitter, but today playing alongside Brittany, I realize that I have a lot to work on.   I have to work harder compared to her.   And considering my swing style, I think the U.S. LPGA suits me a bit more than the KLPGA.   
   
 Q.   So I understand that it was your birthday.   What did you do to celebrate and did having your birthday so recently did it impact your game?   
KYU JUNG BAEK:   I did celebrate with my friends.   They came and we had some cake and candles but the trophy is the best present of all.   
Last year at one of the KLPGA tournaments, I didn't do so well‑‑ this year, I have to say that starting out today if I were to win, it really would be the best gift I could give myself.   
   
 Q.   Could you tell us a little bit about your shots?   For instance, the first, second and third round, you went 3‑under, 4‑under and 5‑under and you had four wins this year.   Do you think that your shots are really coming together or do you think there was a bit of luck this round?   
KYU JUNG BAEK:   Personally from my perspective, I'm not satisfied with my shots.   I think for the four wins this year, with the exception of the Cantata tournament I won, because I played very strongly and also this tournament, I think that I putted very strongly for three days and that contributed.   
   
 Q.   So I understand that you're close withHyo Joo Kim and both of you will have the privilege to go to the LPGA if you choose, and you would actually be competing as rookies there.   So what are your thoughts on that?   
KYU JUNG BAEK:   So actually it was a joke amongst the other rookies and myself, because some of the Korean rookies were doing well and a lot of them are going to the LPGA, we thought that if we remain in the KLPGA, a lot of the strong players would be absent.   And so it would be basically our playing ground, and it was a joke amongst ourselves that next year we'll all have a chance of doing better.  
But now that I've won this tournament, a lot of thoughts are racing through my head.   
THE MODERATOR:   Did you think, if she could do it, I could do it, too, in this event?   
KYU JUNG BAEK:   So I've played with Hyo Joo for the last ten years and I think we are very helpful to each other and we're good rivals because after she won, I actually texted her, congratulating her.   I told her I was proud as a friend and a Korean that she won and I specifically mentioned in my text that I'm going to work hard to make it two since you made it.   
So Hyo Joo has always been a step ahead of me in terms of she won the first pro tournament after we were an amateur and then also she won first at the LPGA.   We've always been kind of in a relationship where she's kind of stimulating me and making me push harder, so I think we have a good relationship.   
   
 Q.   Even with two wins, it seemed you were not satisfied with your play; you were somewhat depressed and lacking confidence.   But recently you seem more confident about your shots and score and you seem to be on an upward momentum.   Has there been a particular reason why there's been a shift?   
KYU JUNG BAEK:   I think because of my injury I was not as confident in the first half.   And before my injury when I was in a really good condition, I would be really aggressive and just go for it.   But because of my injure‑I couldn't practice as much and that impacted my confidence.  
But however, the second half, I learned how to work with the injury and in the first half, I think I was a little hard on myself.   But I have come to learn that sports are not everything and there are more elements to the game.   I've about being more comfortable and I think in turn, being more comfortable with myself has helped me to do better.   
THE MODERATOR:     Congratulations again, thank you for coming in.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT