LPGA KEB HANABANK CHAMPIONSHIP
October 18, 2014
Kyu Jung Baek
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   My first question, in the front nine, you did three birdies and one bogey, and on the back nine, you also did the same score.   So can you tell us about your game today? 
KYU JUNG BAEK:   I think my putting was strong today and my shot was relatively weaker compared to my putting.   But I think I was able to manage my game because I did a lot of par saves.   And so ultimately, I was able to get a low score. 

Q.   This course, wind has always been a factor and wind definitely was a factor in the first two rounds.   So now we are almost done with the third round and we are going into the fourth round.   How much do you think the wind impacted the game?
KYU JUNG BAEK:   I think for the first two rounds, wind was very strong, so it was very difficult.   But today there is definitely less wind and overall, this is leaving most players to lower their scores today.   And as you can see, there are a lot of KLPGA players on top of the leaderboard, and I think this is because recently, the KLPGA players have been able to become accustomed to playing longer distances and more difficult pin positions. 

Q.   You're considered a long hitter in the KLPGA.   How do you think this is an advantage on this course, specifically referring to some of the holes? 
KYU JUNG BAEK:   I think for some of the par 5s, they are a bit short.   So unless you don't have any wind coming on head on, you can make it on the green in two.   And so I think that's the area where a long hitter would have an advantage. 

Q.   So you've had three wins so far this year, and I'm sure you would have thought about going to the U.S., going to the LPGA.   So prior to this tournament, what were your plans on going to the U.S.? 
KYU JUNG BAEK:   I think prior to this tournament, I was focused on staying in Korea next year, learn and build my experience, and I was planning to go to Q‑School next year. 

Q.   Does this mean you will change your plans if you win this tournament? 
KYU JUNG BAEK:   I don't want to get ahead of myself.   I will think about that if I win this tournament.   And I also want to mention, of course it would be wonderful if I can win this championship, but coming into this tournament, my main focus was to build my experience and learn because so many LPGA players take part in this tournament.   In the first round and second round and this round through the groups and players I've been playing with, I've been able to learn a lot, especially in the second round.   In the third round today, I played with two other KLPGA players, Haeji and In Gee, that I've known since way back, so it was very good. 

Q.   So my question is on the first day, your score wasn't that great but on the second and third day, you played a very solid game.   Can you tell us why?   And also going into the fourth round, what do you think the biggest factor will be in winning this tournament?   Will it be the weather?   Will it be the other players? 
KYU JUNG BAEK:   First of all, I think on the first day, my putting was not that solid and that affected my game.   I think going into the fourth round, the biggest factor that will determine success is not really the weather or how the other players are playing.   I guess the biggest factor is myself.   Of course everybody can play very well where they are on an upward swing, but the key to I think winning a tournament is how you manage the course when you're not playing particularly well, if you're not shooting particularly well.   So I think the biggest factor will be how I overcome crisis when, for instance, there is a missed shot. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT