UNIVERSITY OF TULSA MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 14, 2013
Bill Blankenship
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








COACH BLANKENSHIP:   He is a special player.   I mean, that whole group.   But he just fights his tail off.   He doesn't know anything different.   Continues to do that.   He leads that squad, does a great job. 

Q.   Fine line between winning and losing. 
COACH BLANKENSHIP:   Always.   We talk about that all the time.   A lot of people don't understand, there's not a lot of difference in winning and losing.   And mistakes that you make generally accentuate one or the other. 
Made some great plays, had some opportunities that we didn't make them.   There was a point there we thought we were sure we had it. 

Q.   34‑31, five minutes left, then that possession three‑and‑out.
COACH BLANKENSHIP:   We needed to get a first down.   Needed to get a first down.   We were backed up late.   We had been able to run the football.   Didn't get much on first down.   Second down, either mishandled a snap, something happened to get a no‑gain, puts us behind the chains.   Pretty bad on third down. 

Q.   Tough decision to go for it that late? 
COACH BLANKENSHIP:   Think back on what I told the team.   I said, that's one of those you sure would love to have back.   I mean, you don't know if it's the right thing.   I thought it was the right thing to do at the time. 
Their offense is really, really good.   I just felt like if we gave it back to them, but our defense had been getting some stops.   Probably should have kept the time‑out, punted to them, tried to get a stop. 

Q.   When it's 21‑0, did it cross your mind they would pack it in?
COACH BLANKENSHIP:   Our guys? 

Q.   Yes. 
COACH BLANKENSHIP:   You know, you always I think as a coach worry about that because you had some far‑away looks on some faces. 
I felt like once the second quarter hit and we got a couple of scores, especially just one, it just seemed like the one that kind of broke the ice, then the look was different. 
We talked at halftime.   You choose every play.   And I thought our guys chose to fight. 

Q.   See young players mature throughout that game, especially in the second and third quarter. 
COACH BLANKENSHIP:   I think so.   I think there's still a lot of youthfulness out there.   Sometimes we see some really young mistakes.   By now you're 10 games in, you ought to be starting to see some maturity.   I think we're seeing that.   They're growing. 
I hope that they're learning from the Shawn Jacksons and Trey Wattses.   Those are the guys that just know how to battle all the time. 

Q.   Again, Trey Watts' performance?
COACH BLANKENSHIP:   We come to expect it.   We do.   He gets tough yardage, creates big plays.   Converts a two‑point conversion with a pass.   He's got some abilities that are pretty special.

Q.   What do you take out of this game? 
COACH BLANKENSHIP:   A lot of disappointment. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT