BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 18, 2019
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Shall we start with the weather, because it's a beautiful start for the week here in Germany?  
MARTIN KAYMER: It's quite hot, especially after last week at Pebble Beach.  We all wore sweaters, cold-ish wind, which was still beautiful to play.  It's tough to beat Pebble Beach but yeah, Munich, sometimes you get weather like that where it's really hot, maybe there's some thunderstorms coming in Thursday, Friday but generally the week was very, very enjoyable.  It's a golf course and a golf tournament we all look forward to playing.   
 Q.  Can you take us back to 2008, your second victory here on European Tour?  
MARTIN KAYMER: Yeah, my pleasure.  It was a very intense week for many reasons, very emotional, never easy to play this your own country and then being in the lead.  I think I was leading by five or six shots going into the final round.   
It's very difficult with that expectation to go into the first tee, which after 11 holes, my lead was gone and then it was quite difficult sometimes to keep that momentum or to keep that belief up.  That was something, I was very proud of, in the end I hung in and gave myself the chance to win, and fortunately it worked out.   
That was an amazing feeling walking down 18 with all the German flags in the background.  It was a feeling that is very difficult to describe and maybe that's why you shouldn't even try.  It's very special.   
 Q.  That expectation you talk about, does that change as you get older as you gain more experience, playing on home soil?  
MARTIN KAYMER: Of course it changed but I don't know in what way really.  Maybe you see it a bit more relaxed, the pressure -- I think the amount of pressure is the same.  You just see it from a difficult angle, when you are young, you are so attached and you are so into it which can also help and can give you that little bit of extra that you need in order to win because in the end, when you play a playoff or you're only one, two shots behind in the final round, most of the time it's the will that gets you over the line.   
But when you get a little bit older, more experienced, winning other tournaments around the world, it can relax you, but the pressure is still the same and the way you handle certain situations, when you're about to win a tournament, it's always different, so you can't really prepare.  You only hope that your experience will carry you through the -- yeah, over the finishing line.   
 Q.  You've been playing well recently.  You had a good finish at the British Masters and played well in America.  Coming off the back of the U.S. Open, does that give you a bit of inspiration now to push on?  
MARTIN KAYMER: Yeah, I mean, I'm not really attached to my results at the moment.  I don't really care where I finish.  Of course you care, but my focus is not there.  You know, I'm only concentrated on my process, the way I play golf, the way I address tournament rounds and the progress of my short game and all of that.  That is really exciting.   
And then, you know, the outcome will be positive anyway, so I'm not really focusing on the ultimate goal.  I'm trying to go step by step.   
 Q.  Quick word on the golf course.  A lot of changes this year.  Have you seen them and what do you know about them?  
MARTIN KAYMER: Yeah, I was here three months ago.  It was very, very cold but I took a cart and I drove around.  I just wanted to see it because they changed a few greens.  They added a couple bunkers.  They added a couple tee boxes.  I haven't played it yet.  Today I didn't have time.  I will see tomorrow in the Pro-Am for the first time, but I think those changes are more long term.  You can't expect perfect greens this week because the greens are fairly new and they still need to settle down, but long term it was a necessary change.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT