WGC CADILLAC MATCH PLAY
April 29, 2015
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Martin, Thongchai is a competitor, are you pleased to get past him today?  
    MARTIN KAYMER:   It's one of those things that it's a silly thing to say, but they're not really easy matches.   It really depends on the day.   It depends on a lot of things.   
    So therefore, yeah, Thongchai is a tough one to beat.   He's very consistent, usually, and he makes some unexpected putts once in a while.  
    But there were a couple of key moments today, especially on the back nine on 13 and 14, where I made a couple of good putts.   So of course it's nice to start out the week with a win, you're not running behind anything.   So I'm pleased.  
   
 Q.   Players have told us in the past that the adrenaline flows in this championship straight from the first tee.   Is that still the case with this round robin format?  
    MARTIN KAYMER:   Yeah, absolutely.   It's one of those things if your opponent has a putt from 6, 7 feet for par, and you have a 20‑footer for birdie, you know, you still have to try to make it.   You can't really rely on it.   
    So the adrenaline is always up and your heart rate is always a little bit higher.   On a stroke play round you just play your game.   If you make it, it's nice, it's a bonus, otherwise you walk off with a par.   But here you actually think maybe I can get a hole, here.   So it's more like a mental game.   
   
 Q.   You haven't been at your brilliant best in the last few tournaments.   Was there a sense this was going to be better, you found whatever the issue was?  
    MARTIN KAYMER:   Yeah, I found the issue.   I put a lot of pressure on myself when I came down to the Masters.   I really wanted to play well there.   I practiced so much.   I was exhausted.   Getting to the Masters on Monday and Tuesday I was exhausted.   And the tournament hasn't even started, because I practiced so much, I did lower fitness, which you can see, obviously.  
   
 Q.   I can.   
    MARTIN KAYMER:   And so therefore I needed to change that.   I needed some time away from golf, away from the gym because I did too much.   So that is what I did the last couple of weeks.   I enjoyed life a little bit more, instead of always pushing myself.   And I'm much happier in that position where I am now.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT