VALERO TEXAS OPEN
March 25, 2015
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  DAVE SENKO:   We'd like to welcome Martin Kaymer to the interview room at the Valero Texas Open.   Just a couple of things to get us started.   Martin, this is your first time you've played here.   Maybe just tell us a little bit how that came about.   You've been off, I believe, for a month.  
MARTIN KAYMER:   Yeah, I haven't played the last couple of weeks.   After Doral, it was my last tournament.   And then I went back to Germany for a week.   Last week I was in Phoenix practicing.   And then playing here now, too, is my last tournament before the first major.   And I decided to play here, I heard a lot of good things about the place.   Geoff Ogilvy, I saw him last week in Phoenix and he said it became one of his favorite tournaments on Tour.   He said I would enjoy the golf course, because it plays difficult.   So I enjoy a golf course when they're more difficult.   And those were the reasons why I want to play here.  
And then the week before the Masters, you know, I like to go there early and play the weekend before.   
DAVE SENKO:   Now, you had a chance to play the golf course this morning.   What were your impressions of the course.  
MARTIN KAYMER:   Well, I played yesterday 18 holes, obviously I hadn't been here yet.   And I played today the Pro Am.   You need a lot of patience.   It's very tricky.   It's very difficult to get to the flags.   Obviously yesterday and today they put the pins in the middle, fairly easy for the amateurs today.   So it was more accessible.   But I think when they put the pins in the corners, with those firm greens, it's very difficult.   
It's almost like the a little bit like a British Open style the way you have to play with the greens.   You have to pitch the ball sometimes 10, 15 yards short of the flag, because the first bounce is pretty firm.   So therefore it makes it more crucial to hit the fairways, to get a little bit of a spin on the ball.   So it will be difficult.   But what I said earlier, I enjoy those conditions.  
   
 Q.   When Geoff Ogilvy recommends a course, he's kind of one of the guys who has taken a special interest in golf course architect, did you perk up?  
MARTIN KAYMER:   I didn't know about that.   But I saw Geoff last week.   We practiced.   And then I asked him about the place and then he told me all those very positive things and his thoughts about the place here.   
And I think Geoff is similar, he doesn't‑‑ he performs better on tough golf courses.   So therefore it was proof that I've done a good decision to play here, and I proved it even more when I played here yesterday, because I enjoy those tough conditions.  
   
 Q.   Do you think you could go into Houston‑‑  
MARTIN KAYMER:   No, I was never planning on playing Houston.   
   
 Q.   You had the Ryder Cup victory last year, do you talk to the Americans about it with bragging rights, and is there any good‑natured ribbing after you win a Ryder Cup?  
MARTIN KAYMER:   Well, not towards the players.   We don't talk‑‑ obviously we talk about experiences of the last couple of Ryder Cups we've played and what happened in Scotland very, very briefly.   But nothing very deep.   
Obviously there were a lot of thoughts in the media recently about the task force thing in America with the U.S. Team.   And obviously we got asked what we think about it, if it's a privilege for us that they try to copy our strategy.   But I don't even know what our strategy is.   So I mean I wouldn't know how to copy it.   So those are just very simple things that we talk about, but nothing deep, really.   
   
 Q.   I'm wondering how impressed you have been with Jordan Spieth, not just in the Ryder Cup, but his first two years on the Tour?  
MARTIN KAYMER:   Well, place‑wise, everything has been written.   But he's a good person for somebody who is that young, which will last longer than just playing good golf.   
So I think that is something that you have to point out more than his playing.   Playing is one thing.   You don't want to end your career just being known by your success.   It would be nice to be recognized for not just how you play golf, what kind of impact you had on younger people, on the kids and he's doing a very good job when it comes to that.   
   
 Q.   I was going to ask you with Augusta a fortnight away, how would you describe your relationship to The Masters venue?  
MARTIN KAYMER:   At the beginning we were struggling, the course and me.   We had a little bit of up‑and‑downs in our relationship.   And then we're getting to know each other very well now.   We're becoming friends.   
The last two or three years I played really well, but my putting let me down a little bit.   So every year, especially this year, I get there with a very positive attitude.   I proved to myself the last couple of years that I can play the golf course.   It's just a matter of making a few putts here and there.   And I think it was two years ago the Sunday afternoon I finished with I think six birdies the last eight holes or so.   So obviously I can putt on those greens, too.   It's just a matter of getting those two things combined.  
So therefore, you know, I'm looking forward to it.   It's exciting.   You know you can be successful there.   Whatever it is, if it's winning, if it's top‑5, top‑10, whatever success you want to call it, so it's just matter of putting those two or three things together and we'll see if it happens this year or maybe next year.   
   
 Q.   You went there in 2011 as a major winner, is there any extra pressure going there as a current major winner?  
MARTIN KAYMER:   No pressure.   It takes the pressure away, I would think, because, you know, obviously when you've won one major it gives you a little bit of relief, because it's almost like a career goal.   And if you get it done in your mid‑20s, it helps a lot.   
And then obviously last year when you win the second one, you prove to yourself that it was not just a coincidence.   So therefore I would go the other way, I think it would take the pressure away if you've done something special already in your career.   So it can only get better.   And I think that will relax you and makes you play better and more relaxed.  
   
 Q.   How has your life changed with the majors and all the success, the Ryder Cups and all that.   Has it changed at all or are the demands on your time different?  
MARTIN KAYMER:   Yeah, I have to do those things more often, more interviews, more sponsor dates here and there if you want to.   But obviously you always have a choice.   And I think you have to learn to understand what is right for you, what is authentic or what is just your job.   And I think that is what you learn through the years, to get to know what you really want, what makes you a better player, what actually gives you benefit through your success, if it's worth to do it or not, or if you just do it for other people.   
So that is something that is a big learning curve away from golf.   But obviously it has an impact on golf.   And that is something that I didn't understood when I was say the No.1 in the world or when I won the first major.   But you learn.   And then you reflect on the last few years and then you reflect on maybe the last six or seven months.   In my case, and I'm a lot happier now the way I handled things than in the past.   But I think it's a good thing that I learned from the mistakes or the things that I didn't really want to do.   
   
 Q.   How is Dustin Johnson viewed by his fellow golfers on the Tour in light of the six months that he took out?  
MARTIN KAYMER:   Well, if you ask me or in general?   I can tell you my opinion.   
   
 Q.   What is yours?  
MARTIN KAYMER:   Well, my opinion is that he was a very, very good golfer.   Now he's an even better player, I think.   He plays very fearless.   He's had huge success recently.   He was getting close at a few majors before.   I believe it's just a matter of time that he will win a major, because he was up there too often already not to use the chance very soon.  
So I respect him for the way he plays golf.   
   
 Q.   And the reason he took off, does that diminish‑‑  
MARTIN KAYMER:   Who really knows the truth.   Everybody is speculating.   The only one who knows the truth is himself.   So same with me, I can only speculate.   But I would never do that in public.   I speculate for myself, but I think it's good for golf, especially‑‑ good for golf in America that he's playing again.   
   
 Q.   And were you surprised he was able to win so fast in his come back?  
MARTIN KAYMER:   Yeah, I'm sure it must be mentally very difficult, if you see and hear all those things that are written about you and that people say things about you that might not be true, because, you know, people speculate and then there are people they accentuate.   And so it becomes even worse, you know, without you maybe not doing much wrong.  
So that is something that I think he handled very well.   And therefore I think he did a very good job to play that good right away.   
   
 Q.   German music question for you.   What is the better German export group, Scorpions or Ronstein?  
MARTIN KAYMER:   Ronstein is a very special way of music.   It's very dark.   It's not very happy music.   So I would always go with the others.   Surprised you know Ron Ronstein, though.   
   
 Q.   Fantastic life band, if you ever get a chance?  
MARTIN KAYMER:   Not my kind of music.   I try to smile, they're a little on the other side sometimes (laughter).  
DAVE SENKO:   Thank you, Martin, appreciate it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT