THE HONDA CLASSIC
February 26, 2015
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Thoughts on the day?
MARTIN KAYMER:   It was challenging, 7:45 in the morning, first hole of the tournament, it was tough.   I was pleased the way I played the first nine, shot 1‑under par on the first nine, on the back nine of the golf course.   The front nine, they were maybe a little bit easier.   So therefore, overall, I managed the golf course very well today. 

Q.   Phil called these conditions "fun."   Is it fun out there? 
MARTIN KAYMER:   I enjoy it, as well.   I don't enjoy the way it was on Tuesday or Wednesday when there's very little wind because there's very little rough, and then you can really bomb it.   It comes a little bit down to putting.
Today it was a lot about‑‑ I can see Phil liking it because it's like British Open style, and he won it obviously recently.   I enjoy playing in these conditions.   It's not boring.   Every single hole you have to think, you have to be very creative and I enjoy it. 

Q.   To birdie 15 and 16 and 18, it's one much the hardest parts of the course.   Does that make you feel like you have a lot of confidence heading into tomorrow or that you maybe left some shots out there?
MARTIN KAYMER:   15, 16, 17, 18, they are fairly short today.   The wind was in our favor.   So to make birdie on 15 is a little bit of a bonus because it's a tough par 3.

Q.   You're a major player and today these conditions were awfully tough out there.   2‑under par 68, fantastic stuff. 
MARTIN KAYMER:   Yeah, it's 7:30, 7:45 in the morning, you're playing 10 and 11, it was a proper test.   Unfortunately I 3‑putted 11 but overall I played really well.   I hit enough fairways to give myself some chances and that was, I believe in the end, the key. 
I used the last four holes, 15, 16, 17 and 18 for my advantage, made three birdies on those holes.   They played downwind, and therefore a little bit shorter. 

Q.   Into the wind or downwind, explain what you think is more advantageous given the wind conditions?
MARTIN KAYMER:   Depends on the pin positions.   When you have a short pin, I don't mind hitting it into the wind.   When you have a pin position all the way at the end of the green or the back of the green, then you don't really mind if it's downwind, you can let it release to the hole. 
So really depends on the pin positions.   Like today, the win was blowing from every direction.   We had different pin positions every single hole obviously, left, right, short, long; and therefore, I'm pleased the way I managed to play golf on a tough day like this. 

Q.   13 greens in regulation, and you've had some time off.   What are the swing keys going on? 
MARTIN KAYMER:   I'm swinging the same way since the beginning of the season really in January.   I just needed a little bit more rest.   I slept quite a lot and did a little bit more fitness over the last two or three weeks. 
Everything is preparation for the Masters really, but obviously to win one of those events here, Honda or Doral, those are big, big tournaments and I would love to put myself in position.

Q.   Very good day but you started on the back nine, wasn't such a hot start. 
MARTIN KAYMER:   No, but I played well, though.   On 10, I made a very good par.   11 was an unnecessary 3‑putt.   But the rest was pretty steady.   I had a 3‑putt on 14, too.   But the rest, I played well.   I hit enough fairways. 

Q.   Opening round 68. 
MARTIN KAYMER:   Very happy.   Important to hit the fairways to give yourself a lot of chances.   Very difficult to hit fairways.   Fortunately 15, 16, 17, played shorter than usually and the wind was in our favor.   You could make up a few shots but overall it was a big test.   It was tough. 

Q.   We talked yesterday, you said that you had changed things a bit as far as scheduling goes, not playing as many tournaments, making sure that you're rested so you can be mentally and physically sharp.   Are you seeing that on the golf course right now? 
MARTIN KAYMER:   You can feel it.   You're more focused.   Like the focus is pretty much there on every single shot.   When you play a long season, and your focus is not quite there, then you might lose on certain shots and then you make an unnecessary 3‑putt; and you're not seeing the see shot properly and you're missing fairways, and that adds to the frustration, because sometimes you're not able to have enough energy to focus enough. 
I want to be my very, very best in every single tournament I play in, and playing a little bit less, especially before the Masters.   It will be a long season, any ways, so I don't want to do too much at the beginning. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT