OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 1, 2015
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MARTIN KAYMER:   Played very similar to the first three days but made some putts finally which was nice.   Changed one little thing yesterday afternoon on the putting green.   My hands were a little too far behind the ball so I just put them a little bit more forward, makes the ball rolling easier on the greens and that made the biggest difference, because yesterday, especially yesterday, I struggled to make some putts, even to get them to the hole.   That was the biggest difference.  
   
 Q.   Sounds like a simple little change?  
MARTIN KAYMER:   Yeah, I said to Craig when we walked from 9 to 10, I said you know isn't it amazing in golf, a centimeter can make a difference sometimes how you feel.   You roll in some putts, all of a sudden you get momentum on your side and you approach shots with a more positive attitude.   So it's a funny sport sometimes.  
   
 Q.   Obviously an awful long way to go in this championship.   Are you conscious that you've moved up to what presumably is a respectable finish?   
MARTIN KAYMER:   Yeah, it's a respectable finish, especially after yesterday's round when I shot plus one, it's never satisfying to shoot over par, especially in those conditions.   But after all if I finish in the Top‑10, it's been a good week.  
   
 Q.   Good to leave the Middle East with this under your belt?  
MARTIN KAYMER:   It's always one of those places, I wish we would have a major here.   I enjoy playing so much in the Middle East and usually I play well.   Therefore, you know, I look forward to coming in November again when we play The Race to Dubai.   It's just a very nice place, especially from November until March, when the weather is brilliant, it's probably one of the best place in the world to be and to play golf.  
   
 Q.   United States next?   
MARTIN KAYMER:   Yeah, I will be home for a few days to Germany and then I go to Phoenix, practice there a little bit and get ready for Honda and Doral, and obviously the focus is definitely on Doral, the World Golf Championships event and then three or four weeks after, the Masters.   
   
 Q.   We must have uttered your name about 200 times in the last two weeks after Abu Dhabi.   You dealt with that at start of the week and said some nice things.   What about today?   How much did that putt you back on the straight and narrow?  
MARTIN KAYMER:   To be honest it didn't really affect me.   When I came here for me, what happened in Abu Dhabi was a big learning lesson, and therefore, you know, I could move forward, especially when I teed off here on Thursday morning.   So therefore, you know, I didn't really think much.   I just played the way I played in Abu Dhabi.   Played really good golf.   The first three days I didn't make as many putts as today but fortunately I finished well today.  
   
 Q.   In a strange way, do you think what happened to you helped not only you but everyone, including Rory today, and everyone else who is going to be in that position in the future?   
MARTIN KAYMER:   Yeah, I believe you should never take it for granted.   That's the thing, you always have to keep fighting, even if you lead by five, six, ten shots, whatever it is, you always have to keep going.   You need to find a way maybe to try to win by 12.   So you need to find your own goals in the end in order to focus on yourself and not focus too much on the others.   You know what, people should never forget, we are all humans.   
I read yesterday on Twitter, as well, when Mickelson and Tiger, they both missed the cut in Phoenix, Tiger almost finished last, and he's the best player in the world who ever played the game, at least in my era.   So we always have to remember that we are all humans.  
   
 Q.   And you've always made friends wherever you've played golf, not just through your golf but the way you've behaved.   At the start of the week, the words you used to describe your feelings over past couple of weeks, it did make a big connection with people.   How important is that for you to have that connection with not just the golfing public but the sporting public?   
MARTIN KAYMER:   To be honest, I didn't really focus on that.   If people like that, I'm happy.   You know, we can't make everyone happy.   I'm just the way I am.   In the past, I struggled a little bit with saying the things that I wanted to say, because I'm always not sure if it was right to say.   But now, I just say the things how I feel and how it is.   It's very authentic and I think that's the way everybody should be, at least in my opinion.   That's why I talk about it fairly openly and this is accessible.   Everybody can understand because everyone has been in similar situations, maybe in different parts of life, but they can understand what we go through once in awhile if you explain it properly.   
   
 Q.   This great round forward, where does that take you forward?   Where are you going?  
MARTIN KAYMER:   Obviously now I leave the Middle East with another positive feeling like I did in the past.   There are big tournaments coming up now for me.   Now we move to America pretty much until May or June.   So there are big, big tournaments coming up, and it's nice to finish up a tournament with 8‑under par and maybe I can carry it on to the U.S.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT