ABU DHABI HSBC GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 16, 2015
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Another great two rounds around here.   What is it about this place that you love so much? 
MARTIN KAYMER:   I guess the greens, I can read them very well and my stroke always feels well when I come here. 
Again, today, I didn't miss many fairways, which gives you the opportunity to go for a lot of flags.   And to be honest I really believe the golf course plays two or three shots tougher in the morning than in the afternoon, because once you miss the fairway, you're in that thick, wet grass and then it's almost impossible to get home in two on the par 4s.   So therefore, I was very happy to shoot 5‑under today.

Q.   That's not the German way of thinking.   Most players would say the morning is the easiest because the afternoon usually in these parts, the wind kicks up.   That's not a confident stab at the opposition, is it?
MARTIN KAYMER:   Well, it is because you take the pressure away.   You think when you start in the morning, you have to shoot a good score because the greens are good, there's no wind.   But I see it the other way around.   I don't see anything.   I just see it as a bigger challenge, and therefore I don't expect myself to shoot 5‑ or 6‑under par.

Q.   You've won this thing three times and this is the 10th staging of this great championship.   24‑under, you have the record, which is serious golf.   You say that's some of the best golf you've ever played.   Can you get to 24‑under this time around? 
MARTIN KAYMER:   I will give it my best to get to the 20s.   I'll say it that way.   Right now, I'm 13‑under par, which is a great score after two rounds. 
I don't know what they are going to do with the golf course, maybe they change a few tee boxes and make it a little bit more scorable tomorrow.   And therefore, you know, obviously you expect yourself to make even more birdies. 
But what I said yesterday already in interviews, it's important you don't compare yourself to the last two rounds and just keep playing the weekend. 

Q.   After you've had the performances and put yourself into the position that you have in this event, how important are the experiences of what you did at THE PLAYERS Championship and at the U.S. Open? 
MARTIN KAYMER:   I think once you lead by four or five shots or even more, what I've done at the U.S. Open, it's important I believe to challenge yourself and don't really compare yourself to the other players or look for the other players. 
If someone has a good day and comes close, fair enough, you can't change that.   But I think it's important to challenge yourself and then see how low you can get. 

Q.   And how satisfying is it to start your season in the style that you have so far? 
MARTIN KAYMER:   You never really know when you tee it up on Thursday morning what you're going to get.   Especially in my case, I had some great starts and then I had some rounds where I played really, really poorly and missed the cut here. 
So for me it's always one of those surprises, what happened the first two days. 

Q.   But you must be really, really looking forward to the weekend?
MARTIN KAYMER:   I look forward to ‑‑ I like the draw when I play late, early.   You can relax on Friday afternoon and get ready for the weekend. 
Today I didn't make as many putts, but yesterday was special.   Therefore, 5‑under par is a very good score today because I believe in my opinion, that golf course, when you play in the morning, it does play a little bit tougher than the afternoon.   Because once you miss the fairway in the wet, thick rough, it's very difficult to get on the green. 

Q.   It is meant to be hard and challenging.   You were making it look very plain sailing. 
MARTIN KAYMER:   It is hard and challenging, but what I said, when you hit fairways, it's doable.   It's playable.   Then the golf course doesn't become that long anymore and that is what I did.   That is what I took care of.

Q.   I appreciate you said it's important not to compare particular rounds, but do your thoughts go back to the other occasions when you've won and you've won by handsome margins? 
MARTIN KAYMER:   Well, you think back on the positive thoughts.   That's what happened in the players and that's what happened at the U.S. Open when you lead by a few shots.   But that is something for Sunday. 
It's only Friday morning right now and the other guys still have 54 holes to go.   So we'll see where I'm going to end up by the end of the day.   It was definitely a nice way to start off the golf tournament if you know you are probably leading the tournament going into the last two rounds. 

Q.   I heard you say, as well, it's nice to play late and then early. 
MARTIN KAYMER:   Yeah, I enjoy that, especially when you play well, usually it gets a little bit windy in the afternoon and you can sit in front of the TV and the other guys have it a little more difficult than you have, and you can relax.   And especially when you played well, you can relax for the weekend, which is always important when you have to do, you know, other stuff, interviews, you do a little bit more than usually, then it's nice to relax a little bit. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT