ABU DHABI HSBC GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 14, 2015
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  NICK TOTTEN:   Martin, welcome back to Abu Dhabi.   Obviously a place you've had great success in the past.   Must feel good to be back. 
MARTIN KAYMER:   It's always a good start to the season.   Well, actually our season started already in Shanghai, or let's say for the PGA Tour season.   For The European Tour season it has started quite early, as well. 
My first tournament for The European Tour has been here and has been here for the last, I think eighth year I've played now since 2007, so not quite from the beginning, for the ninth time now.   I've had success here.   But the golf course has changed quite a lot, unfortunately, because I really, really liked it the way it was.   It's tough to say if it became more difficult or easier. 
For me it became a little bit more complicated.   They have changed a few greens, a few tee boxes.   So therefore, you know, it's not a given that I will win this.   A lot of people, they said that, oh, we have to beat only you this week.   No, it's not only me.   There are a few other guys out there.   It's always an open competition. 
NICK TOTTEN:   And what about the course sort of suited your game before the sort of changes, and now how does your game sort of compare? 
MARTIN KAYMER:   I think the key was always that I putted really, really well on those greens.   It was for me not very difficult to read the lines.   You know, sometimes you have golf courses where the greens really suit your eye and you don't need to think much, you don't doubt yourself if you pick the right line. 
That was I think the main thing why I played so well, and I didn't miss many fairways in the past.   I hit a lot of fairways, I think 11 or 12 fairways per round, you know, and the golf course was a lot shorter in the past.   And if you putt well with a lot of fairways, it's tough to shoot a bad score. 

Q.   The last couple of years over here in Abu Dhabi has not been up to your‑‑ or last three years, up to your high standard, which is winning all the time.   But you were trying to change your game and your swing a bit, but looks like that it's all back to normal business.   You had a great, fantastic 2014.   So are you feeling any different compared to the last two, three years coming to the first event of the season? 
MARTIN KAYMER:   Well, I'm not feeling much different.   My preparation has been a little different.   Since 2005, I've always been in America for the Christmastime.   I haven't spent it at home.   And last year and this year, I've been home in Germany.   I haven't played golf much. 
This year I went to Dubai the week before this event here, practised a little bit.   So it was a little bit of a different preparation, which doesn't mean it's worse or better.   I mean, I feel good.   It was very necessary to have a break after such a long season I had last year. 
Yeah, so therefore, I don't have much or big expectations as every year.   I just approach it as a neutral tournament, because I think if you compare yourself the way I played in 2008, or 2010 or 2011 where I won, you put automatically some pressure on yourself, because I played really, really well without making many mistakes. 
One year I made only one bogey in four rounds.   It's very difficult to follow up that success and so I just approach it tomorrow morning or tomorrow afternoon as a regular event, regular event that I love to play.   So there's definitely a lot of positives but not too much pressure on myself without any reason. 

Q.   Looking ahead to the four majors this year, of course you're going to Washington State to defend the U.S. Open, but going back to Whistling Straits, how much are you looking forward to sort of going there, to the Old Course, and, of course, the Masters? 
MARTIN KAYMER:   Yeah, it's a major year of‑‑ it's a very special major year for me.   Obviously the Masters is a very special event.   It doesn't matter if you go there for the first time or the 20th time or whatever.   I improved every year, so that will be good to go again. 
And what you said, to be the defending champion at the U.S. Open is quite special.   I haven't been to that golf course yet.   And then you play the British Open on my favourite golf course, the Home of Golf, so that is already very unique.   And then the PGA Championship where I've won my first major. 
So every major I play this year is something very special and it means something to me.   So therefore, again, the way ‑‑ this year in Abu Dhabi, you need to lower your expectation; don't go there over‑motivated.   I think that's very important, because there's enough pressure already.   And obviously you know that you will do your very best.   But it's important to start calm and let things fall into place. 

Q.   Just with regards to the Masters, I think a lot of us would feel that your game and mind‑set now is probably in the best place possible to take on Augusta than it has been in your career; would you agree with that, and at what point do you start thinking for the Masters and planning for the Masters?   How early in the season? 
MARTIN KAYMER:   First, I'm glad you think like this, that's nice (laughter).   The second is Craig and me at the Pro‑Am today, it took us nine holes today to figure out the schedule until pretty much the Match Play in San Francisco. 
Everything is trying to‑‑ obviously the focus is on the Masters.   It's quite a difficult time when you play on both tours.   You need to think about those 15 events that you have to play in America; when do you play them, or when do you play the most tournaments, at the beginning of the season or more towards the middle, end?   It's just a lot of goals that you need to find the right tournaments, and then you need to think about if I even like the golf course.   So scheduling is very important. 
I think we found a fairly good schedule now towards the Masters.   Of course that is the next big step.   So you need time or you need to schedule where you like the golf courses, you need time to practise and you need some time to go home to Germany, as well, because, you know, I did it the last couple years where I was in America for seven, eight weeks in a row where I played a lot of golf and I didn't feel as comfortable as if I would have gone home for a week or so. 
So the whole scheduling towards or around those Majors is very difficult.   The last couple years, I haven't thought about it that much, but last year, I was so exhausted, especially after Ryder Cup, where I sat down and thought, I have to change something for 2015. 
So and what you said, the game is good enough to play well in Augusta, but the rest and the preparation is even more important.

Q.   I was going to ask a very similar question.   Is there any way you can say what your schedule is up to the Masters or is it not in stone yet?   And as for your game, do you almost have the sense that for the last year and this year, you're almost going as a new player to Augusta because of your new ball shape and the way you're able to move the ball like that; is it that dramatic?
MARTIN KAYMER:   The schedule, obviously I'm going to play Dubai and then I play in America.   I play Honda and then Doral.   Then it's the tough time.   Then I have four weeks between Doral and the Masters. 
And if I would play the week before the Masters, I would be‑‑ I would go like an eight‑week stretch in America, because my plan was to play Hilton Head after the Masters, too.   And between Hilton Head and the Match Play is only one week off, and after match play you have Sawgrass, obviously we are going to play, and then we play Charlotte and then we play Wentworth or Colonial. 

Q.   And the Open‑‑
MARTIN KAYMER:   U.S. Open is a little bit later.

Q.   The Irish. 
MARTIN KAYMER:   Oh, Irish Open.   Sorry (laughter). 
That's the goal.   You need to find a balance, how much do you play, before the big events and how much do you play after, because there's another big event coming.
So I'm not sure what I'm going to do within those four weeks now.   Craig and me, what I said, we spent nine holes during the Pro‑Am figuring out the schedule.   But Honda and Doral will be the next one, and then we'll see what I'm going to do before the Masters. 

Q.   As for the other question, I guess what I'm saying is that when you go to Augusta now, do you almost see it in a different way because of the way you play the game now?
MARTIN KAYMER:   Well, the last couple years, the first year was still, what I say, 2013 was still a little bit difficult.   Last year I played really well.   Didn't putt very well but that has nothing to do with the golf course.   But I can hit the right shots. 
There are a couple tee shots where I struggle a lot, just the look, but everybody has it on certain golf courses.   You can talk too much into it or you try to find a way to get out of it and make it as comfortable as possible, but it worked out very well in 2014 for me. 
So playing‑wise, right now there's no problem to play well there.   So knowing this already, is a big step.   Just hitting the shot on the range is one thing.   But knowing that you can do it in the tournament and under the circumstances, that, I think is more important than just hitting them on the range. 

Q.   Can you say what those tee shots are, 2 and 10‑‑
MARTIN KAYMER:   No, that's my secret.   And you will tell me after the round, oh, yeah, you really did‑‑ (laughter). 

Q.   After winning THE PLAYERS and the U.S. Open, it seems like you've been on a roll.   But were you a bit disappointed with the way you finished the season then, was it because of the exhaustion you were talking about, or was it because of the expectation that you were talking about? 
MARTIN KAYMER:   No, expectation was actually very, very low, because I knew how it felt in 2010 when I won the PGA and became the No. 1 in the world.   I know how difficult it is when you get so much attention and so much pressure from the outside.   So I was not expecting me to win every single week or to compete on the top every single week. 
What I said earlier; the tough part was really to playing that much golf, playing all the FedExCup tournaments, being in America for seven, eight weeks straight, only in hotel rooms, not going home; then going to The Ryder Cup, playing the Grand Slam of Golf, as well. 
So there are a lot of tournaments unexpectedly that came up and I kept playing, kept playing.   And at one stage, just don't want to play golf anymore.   You don't go to the range anymore.   Usually you go 45 minutes, an hour before the tournament round, you go to the range and you hit some balls.   And then the last two or three tournaments I played, it was 20, 30 minutes, I hit balls because I felt like I had to, and boom, off we go, and that's not the way it's supposed to be.
And then after Ryder Cup, I was just‑‑ I was just completely done.   I was quite happy when I missed the cut at the Dunhill because it gave me another day off.   You fight for every single day just sleeping in your own bed and getting away from golf. 
Obviously you always have an option, but I just felt like I had to play for whatever reason.   And I learned a lot from, I wouldn't call it a mistake, but I learned a lot about that you need to worry a little bit more about your body and about your mental health instead of hitting it right‑to‑left, left‑to‑right and making birdies. 

Q.   Apart from Christmas, what is the longest you've gone without touching a golf club? 
MARTIN KAYMER:   When I had my‑‑

Q.   For example, when you talk about how pleased you were to miss the cut in the Dunhill, you were presented with a bit of extra time off.   Did you put that to good use, and if, so what did you do?   I'm trying to get an impression of how far away sometimes you want to get from golf. 
MARTIN KAYMER:   For example, I want to get really far away around Christmastime, that's why I tried a completely different sport.   I went skiing for the first time in my life.   To have something in my mind that I can focus on, which has nothing to do with golf, but still you have to focus on something and concentrate on it to become good. 
So I said, okay, I would like to learn a different sport, and I want to learn a good quality and I want to become better at it, and that got me completely away from golf, because you are completely in that environment. 
So you almost have to force yourself to get away from it, because if I would have been just home, you know, you always are confronted with something related to golf; if it's just some mail that you get from fans that you have to sign, the U.S. Open flag, or the Sawgrass flag or whatever it is or Ryder Cup and all that stuff, then you always get reminded of that.
And if you get completely away, you know, you more think about, where is my next lunch place, did I take the right slope, like those things.   It's a different thought process, and that was very important to get that out of the way, and that's why I'm quite happy to be back here now and play.   If I wouldn't have done it, I think I would have come here and say, okay, the season starts again. 
So but now I'm actually quite happy that I did that break and I'm ready to go again. 

Q.   And how long was that break? 
MARTIN KAYMER:   Only three weeks.   Because then I went to Dubai last week and practised.   But those three weeks, they were completely away from golf, so it was enough.   If you had just three weeks home, it wouldn't be enough.   But because I did something completely different, it was good. 

Q.   Did you say that you learned to ski?   Does that mean you've never skied before?
MARTIN KAYMER:   Well, I was four when I was on skis for one day and I didn't care anymore because I didn't know how to use those things.   And then my parents, they gave me a teacher when I was young in the group and the other equipment and I thought‑‑ well, I tried it, it didn't work, nah.   So I skied for one day before, and this year, I said, okay, I want to learn properly.
I was quite proud, I didn't fall once, so that was good.

Q.   You didn't fall in three weeks?
MARTIN KAYMER:   No, I didn't ski for three weeks straight.   I skied for five days, and Christmastime those few days I was home in Germany, and then over new years we went again.

Q.   I'm sorry, but can we go back to my original question quickly.   What was the maximum length of time you've taken off when you don't touch a golf club? 
MARTIN KAYMER:   Well, on purpose? 

Q.   On purpose, yeah.
MARTIN KAYMER:   Me personally, I can only do it seven or eight days, then I feel like I have to, because you feel a little bit guilty for not practising.   Because in the end of the day, it's your job, as well. 
And on the other hand, yeah, you just get a bad conscience of not working, because other people work.   Some people, they are going to be in Florida on the range in Lake Nona or wherever it is. 
At the end of the day, can you not compare yourself always.   If you compare yourself, you know, you don't listen too much to yourself anymore.   You just think more about others instead of thinking about yourself. 
So therefore, now, it was for me quite okay to take two, 2 1/2 weeks completely off golf.   I didn't feel bad about it but maybe it has something to do with that I was quite successful in 2014, as well, that I didn't have to feel bad. 
But you need to find a balance, what feels okay to you and not compare too much to others.   I think that's very important. 

Q.   Were you worried about injury at all when you were skiing?   Were you concerned you would have a fall and maybe damage a shoulder or something?
MARTIN KAYMER:   No, you know, I was one of those guys on the ski slope, sometimes we see them in the Pro‑Am, like me on the ski slope (laughter) who don't hit the ball very well, but look great, great equipment, spotless.   That's the way I looked on the ski slope:   No idea what I'm doing, don't even know how to get the shoe in the ski, but I looked great and had all the protection. 
So I was fine.   I had a lot of respect for it because you hear all the shocking stories, all the injuries from other people, they can hurt you; they can ski into you. 
But I think as long as you keep the respect for the sport and don't push it too much, what we always do as an athlete, we always try to see where is my limit.   And of course I did, as well.   But straightaway you get a feedback, look, right now, that's your maximum, don't go too far.   And I think as long as you know that and keep the enjoyment. 

Q.   Where did you ski? 
MARTIN KAYMER:   In Italy.   It was nice.

Q.   On a beginner's run or did you try the intermediate run?
MARTIN KAYMER:   The beginning is quite embarrassing because you start on that something where you just go like this all the time (indicating bunny slope).   But then I was with a small group and all of them they could ski and I just felt like, geez, I don't want to be alone always, because they didn't care about the little slope, they wanted to ski properly.   But then in the end, we went everywhere.   It was like those blue slopes, red and black.   It was fine. 

Q.   Find the competitive side of you coming out, did you? 
MARTIN KAYMER:   Yeah, and you see a lot of parallels to golf.   The teacher, she was very good with me because she explained the ski how the ski works when you do certain moves, it goes automatically to the side and you go with the curves, and I think it was very similar to the golf club.   You know, when you know how to use, for example, with a wedge, when you know how to use the bounce in the bunker or from the grass here, then not much can go wrong. 
So I think it was important for me to ski better when she explained to me how everything works, like why is it built like this.   And my coach, my golf coach, does the same thing, explains to me why the golf club is built in this and that way, and not only do you have to do this and this, but explaining why and how things work.   So I could relate a lot to this and it was quite interesting for me. 

Q.   What is your better curve, fade or draw, on skis? 
MARTIN KAYMER:   I could do the left curve really good because my right leg is a little bit stronger.   And you could feel when you ski for five or six hours a day, and then in the end when I went to the right curves and my left leg is a little bit weaker, it was shaking.   So it was a great workout at the same time. 
But I like that you have to be brave, and so similar to golf, in order to win tournaments and hit great shots at specific times, you have to be brave and you have to come maybe over your comfort zone sometimes. 
But the thing is, can you really do it.   Can you go over your comfort zone in order to hit those great shots, and skiing, I felt like when you're a little bit more brave, it's actually easier.   But to get there, to lean forward, even though it's going downhill, and you pick up speed, but it makes it easier, and to get over that, it takes some time.   But you've got to do it.   And I like that challenge. 

Q.   Just getting back to golf, with the course enhancements in recent years, do you feel that you're a victim of your own success; you were almost like the Sebastian Vettel of the National Course during that stretch.   (Laughter). 
MARTIN KAYMER:   Are we going to a different sport again?   (Laughter).

Q.   In a golf concept. 
MARTIN KAYMER:   No, the thing is you only become a victim if you compare yourself to the last few years.   And it almost became a new golf course:   A lot of new tee boxes the last two or three years, which didn't make the holes particularly better.   For example, the eighth hole is a great hole, the par5 from the forward tee.   Now, it became a little bit of a boring, straightforward par 5. 
So you just have to see it as a new golf course and approach it that way.   And then it's fine.   I still enjoy the golf course a lot, but that doesn't mean that I have success every single year. 
I had years where I've won and then the next year, I missed the cut.   So I think it's about the expectations. 
NICK TOTTEN:   Thanks very much, Martin.   Good luck this week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT