WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 8, 2014
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Huge satisfaction with a round of 66 today?   
MARTIN KAYMER:   Yeah, finally I could make some putts today.   That was nice.   The first two days I played already really well but the putter was a little cold.   
Today I make a couple mid‑distance putts.   Didn't make many mistake, only one bogey.   So I think I put myself in a good position.   Obviously Graeme, he ran away a little bit yesterday, and he still has pretty much two birdie chances to come on 16 and 18 before we are done.   
But it is a pretty good score out there.  
   
 Q.   Your history at this event, you know what's possible in the final day.   
MARTIN KAYMER:   Yeah, 2011 it worked out well but the conditions are a little bit tougher this year.   But for me it was really important to put myself in position to have a chance tomorrow.   
Obviously you need a little help from Graeme in order to win but I'm playing really well and that's all I can do.   If he's better tomorrow or maybe a couple other guys, they come up, and it is what it is.  
   
 Q.   You mentioned conditions.   How much difference was the course today with the cold weather and winds and rain overnight as well?  
MARTIN KAYMER:   Today was even more important to hit the fairways.   Once you were in the rough, it was wet, thick rough, and it's tough to get it on to the green, especially on that golf course, you have a lot of bunkers around the greens but then you have to carry a water hazard sometimes.   And I drove the ball really well for three days and I think that was key for my scoring for the last three days.  
   
 Q.   Your caddie, Craig Connelly, got the Caddie of the Year Award this week.   What makes him a good caddie?  
MARTIN KAYMER:   It's tough to put it into a couple sentences.   Obviously we spend more time with our caddie than our girlfriend or wives or any family member all year long.   So I think it's very, very important that you have someone who makes you laugh, who has a good sense of humour, that you have similar personalities, especially when you play a few weeks in a row, you need someone who keeps you happy and makes you laugh, because you have a lot of dinners together.   
And then obviously the qualities on the golf course, it really depends on the player, as well and I think he can adjust to the player very well and very quick.   He has caddied on the LPGA Tour before and for Casey, for Montgomerie, and so he knows his stuff.   But I was surprised the first time we worked together how fast he adjusted to my game.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT