WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 6, 2014
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MARTIN KAYMER:   I think it's a very good score, especially the first nine we played, it was difficult to play.   It was windy and we were one of the groups in the back of the field today.   The greens, they were still good but a little bit slower than they were the first round.   So overall, 3‑under par, I think it's all about putting yourself in positions.   So after the first round, I did well.  
   
 Q.   Did you expect a tougher challenge than the past?  
MARTIN KAYMER:   I thought when I played on Tuesday I thought the rough might be a little thicker but actually when you walk through it, it looks thick but it's fairly fine and very thin.   So even if you miss a couple tee shots, you still have a chance.   It's still playable.   
Today the first nine was a little tricky so I was happy to shoot 1‑under par on the first nine.  
   
 Q.   Good foundation for the week?  
MARTIN KAYMER:   It's a good start and I really enjoy playing here anyways.   So even when‑‑ I was at one point level par today, but just kept telling myself, you enjoy the golf course so much, and you will have plenty of birdie chances, so you just need to wait.   Fortunately today on the back nine, it turned out well.  
   
 Q.   Have you noticed any difference in the championship over the number of years you've come here?   Not so much the course but the way people respond to you and the audience and the crowds?   
MARTIN KAYMER:   Well, I mean, when we talk about myself, yeah, obviously since The Ryder Cup in 2012, this year, when I played in the practice round and the Pro‑Am, obviously winning the U.S. Open this year, and the way we won The Ryder Cup; so there's definitely more support, which is brilliant to see that China is on our side when we play The Ryder Cup.   
   
 Q.   Good support, and you can feed off it?  
MARTIN KAYMER:   It's nice support and I believe it's going to be even more in the weekend.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT