ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 1, 2014
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MARTIN KAYMER:   It's a little bit of a magical place.   I feel very lucky, it always feels like home, but this year it's definitely as close as it gets.   It was never a thought for me to skip the event, especially after The Ryder Cup.   I've always played well here in the past.   There's a lot of positives this week.   
   
 Q.   Is it the ideal place to come to after a week like a Ryder Cup week?   
    MARTIN KAYMER:   Well, the ideal place is to go home and reflect on the week.   That would be the ideal place.   But playing golf again, in that environment, makes it a lot nicer, a lot easier, especially after such an exhausting week in Scotland.   You play with your friend or your brother or your father or whoever, and you will have a good time on the golf course and I think that's very important that you enjoy the week and not focus too much on the golf.   If it happens that you play well, great.   If not, you will have a very enjoyable and nice week.  
   
 Q.   Just wanted to ask you for AN appreciation of Paul McGinley's captaincy last week.   A lot of people said he clearly learnt an awful lot from Bernhard Langer, who I know is close to you, from his experiences in 2004.   Within that light, how would you assess what Paul did?   
    MARTIN KAYMER:   Well, that's very tough to putt into a few words.   I think he had the talent as Bernhard did, and he made every team player‑‑ even though they are all different characters, he made them feel like a unit.   We were all very, very close that week and very strong.   
    It was always such a good team spirit and atmosphere, especially after Saturday, the way he talked to us with a very strong speech that it was not over yet.   I just thought he had a very special connection to all the players and he knew all the different characters, something that I had never seen before in a captain.   That's what I think was very, very impressive.   
   
 Q.   And for you, where does that achievement of being on another winning Ryder Cup Team set for you?   You've won Majors this year and you're a multiple Major winner, THE PLAYERS Championship, all that kind of thing.   Where does this one sort of sit?   
    MARTIN KAYMER:   It was definitely the best Ryder Cup and most enjoyable Ryder Cup that I played.   Obviously Medinah, there's less support if you don't play on your home soil.   So I could really, really enjoy every single moment, every single game I've played, and the success that we had, we played very controlled.   We were always in control of our game plan.   Paul had a brilliant game plan.   We never really backed off, so I think we could be very, very proud of the achievement that we kept going and that we really gave him a chance for a comeback on Sunday.  
   
 Q.   Who do you think should be the next captain?  
    MARTIN KAYMER:   That's a tough one.   I believe that Darren Clarke is the next one in line.   I think Thomas, he will be a very good captain, as well, one day but I think he's still playing too good to be captain in America in two years' time.   But I believe the chances for Darren Clarke are quite high right now.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT