BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 6, 2014
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Nice playing.  You got your self right back in it now?  MARTIN KAYMER: It was nice for me.  I needed a little bit of something today.  I felt if I shoot 4 or 5-under par, it would get me a chance to win tomorrow. It didn't look like it after five or six holes, but I had a really nice comeback and finally, I could make some putts. Last few rounds I played, I didn't make that many putts.  But, today I made a couple big ones and on 17 I got a little greedy.  I really wanted to make that putt to put my name up there to be in double digits, and you can't be too aggressive with a putt like this on Saturday afternoon. If it's on Sunday afternoon, trying to win the golf tournament, fair enough.  But, that was a little bit of a mistake there.  But, overall, I just see the positives, and I played very well.  And I'm very happy with the round.   Q.  Can you talk about, obviously, after winning the U.S. Open, you had a little bit of a dip there.  When you look back on it, was it just inevitable, after all that success and attention and whatnot?  MARTIN KAYMER: A lot of people forget that it's very, very difficult for someone who is staying in hotel rooms every single week.  I've been in rooms now for five weeks in a row, and I didn't really play tournaments that I could have skipped.  I played pretty much everything I should play.  Like the Majors, the World Golf Championship events, now here the FedExCup.  You can't really skip an event. I was just, after the U.S. Open, I had to go -- I had to play in Germany, so it was just very, very tiring. I didn't really have time to reflect on such big wins.  And I'm the kind of guy -- I would like to sit down and take some time and reflect how good that win really was, and I didn't really have time for that.  And then I didn't really have enough motivation as well, to keep going. When I was home, after Firestone, I had a little bit of time for myself, and I practiced with my coach a little bit.  He was in New York last week, so I could go back on track where I was before.   Q.  It's probably hard to even practice properly during all that, right, you're so tired?  MARTIN KAYMER: Well, the last couple weeks and after rounds, I haven't practiced.  Because you just don't want to be on the golf course, you know. When I came here on Tuesday morning, I just went and played nine holes, because I wanted to see how long the ball flies.  But, I didn't really want to play golf, because it's so much. Therefore, it's very important that once we're done here, I just leave and just rest and do your own thing.   Q.  Given there's no week off in these playoffs, how hard is that?  You're in another stretch where you don't get a break.  How much more difficult does that make it?  MARTIN KAYMER: It is very difficult if you don't really have a day where you can go home.  Some players can go home for a couple days and then go to the next event.  But, my home is a 12 hour flight, so it's not going to happen. Especially, you know, it's a thought process as well.  Thinking about what is coming up.  Atlanta is going to be a very big week, and then a huge week is coming up in Europe with the Ryder Cup. You have to really take week after week.  You can really look ahead, because otherwise you're stressed out.  It's too much. So, yeah, that's basically it.   Q.  Do you watch that putt much?  At Medinah?  It's been on the Golf Channel a little bit this week.  They're showing highlights of the Ryder Cup.  Do you ever look at that?  MARTIN KAYMER: Well, what's really interesting, I thought, the other night, when they showed, I think it was Justin Rose, Ian Poulter, and Nicolas Colsaerts.  The way they described the last day of the Ryder Cup, to get the insiders, how people -- how players think in very, very precise details. And when my story was on, I was in the gym, because I couldn't watch it.  I would have loved to watch it, because I haven't seen it yet. But, it's very interesting how much the Ryder Cup does to you as a person.  You grow so much and a lot of people only think it's just you grow as a golf player, but I think that as a person, you learn a lot yourself.   Q.  Do you use that as confidence?  Obviously, to watch that putt, such a great moment.  MARTIN KAYMER: You know, a lot of people think of only that putt.  But without Justin and without Ian and those guys, I would have never had the chance to make that putt. So, they should get a lot of credit for it.  But, I'm more proud of the last three or four holes the way I played them.  That was only one putt that I made, fair enough, it was a big putt.  But the last hour, that was quite crucial.   Q.  Can you explain how different it feels in that situation than being in Majors, and the nerves.  Is it a different kind of nerves, a more intense kind of nerves?  MARTIN KAYMER: Well, it's very, very intense.  It's, obviously, I got that question a lot, but you can't -- and again, I cannot describe that feeling, it is something that you can't really expect as well.  You can't really prepare for it. So therefore, I was very proud of myself the way I handled it and how calm I was still inside. But, obviously, you are very excited about that moment.  And of course, you're a little bit nervous, but I was surprised that I was not crazy nervous.  I was not shaking or anything.  It was just a very, very nice feeling standing over that putt and making something great happen.   Q.  Do you not have a home in Arizona?  MARTIN KAYMER: Yeah, I do have.   Q.  I thought when you said you had along flight home --  MARTIN KAYMER: Yeah, but all those time changes on planes here and there, you know. For example, I could go to Phoenix on Sunday or tomorrow evening, but then I'm on a flight again.  I just want to -- when I get to Atlanta, I want to have a day off and don't do anything.  So, when I would be home or if I would be in Phoenix, I would do something.  I know myself.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT