DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 1, 2014
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Martin, what do you take away from the Deutsche Bank Championship this week as you move to the BMW Championship, as far as your game goes?MARTIN KAYMER: A lot of confidence in the last two months of golf.  After the U.S. Open I was a little bit tired, a little bit exhausted.  I just needed a little bit of time for myself and to reflect really what happened.  So this week was a great week.  I played really well.  I hit many fairways.  I gave myself many chances.  I would have loved to play a little lower round yesterday to give myself a chance for today.  But only two more weeks to go, and then we can go home.Q. Then you go home and get ready for the pressure cooker that is the Ryder Cup.  Let's talk about the Ryder Cup.  You're on that team.  You've got a lot to talk about.  Paul McGinley, your Captain, is going to make his three Captain's picks tomorrow.  Does he reach out to you for input?MARTIN KAYMER: No, nothing.  He's has a couple of guys that he has already announced.  I think at the end of the day you have to ask yourself who will get the point in the singles.  I think that's very important. But it's a difficult one for Paul.  Because it's a very, very tough team to make this year.  And I think Stephen Gallacher, the way he played golf, he's in great form.  He deserves a pick.  He plays in his country.  I'm glad I'm not the captain this time.  Hopefully I will be one day.  But I think it will be a very, very strong team.  But on paper it's always different than -- you still have to play good golf and live up to the expectations.Q. You talk about who is the player that can get you that point.  You go back to 2012 at Medinah, you got that clinching point for the Europeans, and the great come back on Sunday.  You've won a U.S. Open, a PGA Championship, that moment for you personally, what does it mean?MARTIN KAYMER: It's almost impossible to put into words.  It can be life changing.  It can be a career -- if you miss that putt you can -- I mean that could be it with your career.  That's why I admired (inaudible.)  When he missed that putt, I know how it feels like, how much pressure he must have felt.  And what he has done out of that experience is amazing. So I got the question the other day if I would love to stand over that putt again this year.  And I said I would rather give it to someone who would have the experience, because I know how it is, and I know how valuable it can be for your career, for your confidence.  So I would rather give it to someone who is an uprising star, or even a rookie on the team, so hopefully he can make the putts and he can have the same confidence that I gained.Q. Not trying to put you in a bad spot because there are a lot of options out there.  But do you see who Paul McGinley has sized up, who do you think will be on that team as a Captain's pick?MARTIN KAYMER: Yeah, it's not a nice question, but I think Poulter, he should be in for sure.  He has a great record.  If you think those four people now with Westwood, his record is good.  He played many times.  He's a solid person, a leader in the team.  Luke Donald, one of the best short game players out here.  I know that or I heard that he's struggling a little bit with his long game, but he will make everything up with his short game.  But to be honest who deserves it more, I think is Stephen Gallacher should get the chance.  I hope for me, he played so much golf, I think he deserves one.Q. 7 a.m. Eastern time captain will be making the announcement.  I'm sure you'll be watching.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT