THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 18, 2014
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MARTIN KAYMER: The first six or seven holes I played really well.  One shot cost me two shots and unfortunately.  And it was a couple of short putts and all of a sudden I was over par.  And I fighted back, and it was quite nice. And I made birdie or the way I made birdie on 16, I had 45 meters to the flag.  And from a tight lie, it's a difficult shot, and I hit it to a foot and that gave me quite a nice cushion for 17 and 18. And then I was fortunate enough to get a free drop on 18, because the tent was in the way for the second shot and then I two-putted for birdie. 1-over par total is a good total for the amount of fairways I missed.Q. Well, now you're in for the weekend?MARTIN KAYMER: I think I needed to be very unlucky to miss the cut, with the way I played.  I just missed three short putts today and yesterday.  And then I got screwed a couple of times on two holes. But overall it was a good fight and I'm very happy with the way I played the back nine, because I kept myself in the tournament and gave myself a chance.Q. (Inaudible.)MARTIN KAYMER: Well, I missed the tee shot a little over to the right and it was one of those bushes, and I didn't have a shot so I needed to take a penalty.  I needed to go all the way back and then I couldn't get to the green in two.  I was trying, but I couldn't make it.  And then I was still in the rough.  And it was a very thick lie, but chipped it out, still on the green.  And then you start thinking, you haven't done much wrong.  You were 3-under a moment ago, and now you're fighting for double bogey.  So, yeah, I made a double bogey.Q. (Inaudible.)MARTIN KAYMER: Yeah, because it's always nice when you fought and then in the end you got rewarded on 16 and 18.  Because even though they are par 5s, but are difficult to play today.  So I'm very confident going into the weekend now.Q. (Inaudible.)MARTIN KAYMER: If you would go out and play I think every one of us will struggle.  It's not that easy, even though it didn't rain.  It's just difficult to play.  Even the holes downwind.  On 17 I think my drive was 350 meters, and then you have 50 yards to a firm green downwind.  Even the downwind holes they are very difficult to make birdie.  Obviously I prefer downwind, but it's still tough to shoot a very low score.Q. Do you hope for wind and rain tomorrow and Sunday?MARTIN KAYMER: I hope?  I hope I make birdies every day.  I can't take care of the weather.  I don't hope for any weather.  I just take it the way it is.  That is what The Open is about.Q. But if you could chose, if you had the power to control it?MARTIN KAYMER: 25 degrees, sun behind, if you ask me, that is what I would choose.Q. That's celsius?MARTIN KAYMER: Celsius, yeah.Q. (Inaudible.)MARTIN KAYMER: Yeah, but I like that way of golf, you know, when you don't make too many birdies.  When you feel happy with a par.  I like that way of golf, and that's why when we play on the European Tour sometimes, sometimes the scoring is -- you have to shoot 20, 22-under par, or even on the PGA Tour sometimes, to win a golf tournament.  And I prefer when it's very difficult.  And that is what The Open is about.  It's about grinding it out and being happy when you make a par.Q. What are you thoughts on Philipp Lahm's announcement of international retirement?MARTIN KAYMER: International retirement?  I don't know about that.  I didn't get the news.Q. I was going to ask you, is it someone you know well?  Are you surprised by that?MARTIN KAYMER: I don't know.  What happened?  You need to explain to me what happened.Q. (Inaudible.)MARTIN KAYMER: He stopped playing football now?  For the national team?  (Answering in German.)


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT