ALSTOM OPEN DE FRANCE
July 5, 2014
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Tell us about your play today.   
MARTIN KAYMER:   It was tough.   Definitely the first nine was difficult.   There was a lot of wind, some showers once in awhile.   But I didn't miss too many putts.   It was nice.   I made two 3‑putts but they were not that easy.  
But overall I played solid.   I hit enough fairways, very good iron shots to give myself chances and I didn't miss many of those, say, 6‑, 10‑footers.   I made quite a few of those, which kept me in good position.  
   
 Q.   What's the most difficult thing about playing this course in those conditions?   We are seeing guys really struggling today.   
MARTIN KAYMER:   I think sometimes you have to pull back and just hit the fairway.   You have so accept that you hit sometimes a 5‑ or 6‑iron into par 4s, even though it's a short hole.   
If you go‑‑ if you play too aggressive and always try to get too close to the green, you will hit the rough, and wet, thick rough is very difficult to control the ball.   I think sometimes you have to play a little bit more defensive.   
   
 Q.   Currently speaking you're seven shots behind the leader, which is bad news, but there's only three guys ahead of you, which is good news.   How do you see your position?  
MARTIN KAYMER:   Well, I think since the first day, he's running away a little bit, so I guess he likes the golf course as much as I do.   
So I think it will be difficult to catch him.   But if the weather stays like this, I just need to shoot a very, very low score tomorrow.   If you get two, three shots close to him, he might get some nerves the last three or four holes because it's a tough finish.   
But the way he plays golf and the way I know him, very laid‑back guy, so it will be difficult to catch him.   I can only try to shoot as low as I can to be happy with myself.   
Tough start and you always try to catch up, that's all you try to do, on that golf course which is very nice.   Sometimes you can't make many birdies and par is a good score.   
I played solid since I would say the last 52 holes.   So without that start, I would be in a great position.   
   
 Q.   Solid but with some nice fireworks in there, chipping in, as well as holing a couple of nice, long putts.   
MARTIN KAYMER:   Yeah, the chip‑in was not a very good chip.   I think I got a little lucky there but I had a couple of nice, long putts, especially on 9, which was good.   
So I think I gave myself a chance tomorrow to finish at least in the top three.   I think it will be very tough to catch the first two as they are running away a little bit, unless they struggle.   
But I can just try to play very aggressive tomorrow to give myself the best chance of finishing in the top three.  
   
 Q.   Has it changed your approach or expectations knowing that Kevin Stadler shot so low on first day and you were that far behind at the time?   
MARTIN KAYMER:   To be honest if somebody shoots that low, there's always a guy that goes a little lower the first day.   Usually they come back a little bit and he didn't so far.   If you try to catch him, you only put too much pressure on yourself.   You can only hope that he comes back a little bit and you have one of those low days that you can get a little bit closer.  
   
 Q.   Did you put the German shot on and watch the football?  
MARTIN KAYMER:   I did yesterday and I was with the other Germans and we watched together.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT