BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 25, 2014
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What are your thoughts on getting back to the day job after all the hullabaloo after the U.S. Open?   
MARTIN KAYMER:   Yeah, I look forward to play golf again, not so much talking.   I've done a lot of talking, a lot of interviews the last ten days, so I look forward to play golf again.   
   
 Q.   You know it comes with the territory, though, and you've been through it before, so are you better able to cope with things this time around?   
MARTIN KAYMER:   Yeah, it's fine.   Obviously it's very normal if you've done something special, if you've won a major.   People want to talk to you, and it's completely fine.   Now I can handle it a lot better.   In 2010 and after The Ryder Cup and those things, it was a little more difficult because I didn't really know what to expect.   Now it's fine.   It's just a lot of playing.  
   
 Q.   Have you had fun with it?   Have you been able to sit back and enjoy and reflect what you achieved?  
MARTIN KAYMER:   It was very nice, the next two or three days after the U.S. Open, I went to New York for three days, and I could reflect very quick, which was very surprising for me.   It was very satisfying and makes you very proud.   In the past, it took me a little bit, even after the PGA Championship, I think it took me six, seven months to really realize what happened because I was so young and it was a little bit of a surprise for me, too.   But that win was a little bit different, so it was really nice to reflect right away and to understand what really happened.   
   
 Q.   Can you enjoy this week, because there is so much attention on you?   
MARTIN KAYMER:   Well, I hope I can.   Last year we did a big press conference on Tuesday, which I held myself, and then we invited all the German media, which was a smart thing to do, because then you don't need to sit down every day for an hour here, an hour there, and so you can really focus.   We've done the same thing this week.   
But this one is always a difficult week.   It's very‑‑ I mean, I hope, I really hope that I can enjoy it as much as possible, because it's a week that you are supposed to enjoy and hopefully I can.  
   
 Q.   And you know everybody is going to expect you to play just as well as Pinehurst.   What are your own expectations this week?   
MARTIN KAYMER:   I think they at least expect me to play as good as Pinehurst, I think that's the minimum, but you can't really take that as‑‑ you can't think like this.   I think you only add pressure.   
For me, the main thing is to start off well to the tournament and then we'll see if I have a chance on Saturday and Sunday.   Two years ago, I didn't even qualify for the weekend, so it's a tough week and the expectations I think should be low.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT