U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 15, 2014
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. You've now won a U.S. Open on Father's Day.  Last month in Ponte Vedra Beach, you held the lead after every round.  This week here at Pinehurst, you held the lead after every round.  What is that pressure like?MARTIN KAYMER: It's a lot, especially if you play on a different continent.  But, again, at The PLAYERS, the fans are very fair, and the same here this week. So I'm playing with Rickie today, I knew it was going to be very difficult.  He's a very aggressive player, and he can make a lot of birdies if he wants to. But overall it was a very nice week.  Very nice day.  And again, a lot of credit to the fans and spectators because it was very fair to play.
Q. How would you compare the way you're playing right now with these two huge wins in the last month to three years ago in 2011, when you were the No. 1 player in the world?MARTIN KAYMER: Well, I didn't make many mistakes, you know, the last two wins that I had in America, especially this week, I played very solid the first two days and that gave me a very nice cushion for the weekend.  But to shoot only 1-over par in Pinehurst on Saturday and Sunday is good.  The way I played I was very happy, the way I kept it together yesterday.  And that gave me a good cushion for today.
Q. Growing up in Germany, you idolized Bernhard Langer playing golf.  He's won the Masters twice.  You've now won two Major championships.  What does it mean to you to match his Major Championship résumé right now at just 29 years of age?MARTIN KAYMER: We have almost a German gland slam, almost, it's only the British Open missing.  To win the Masters, it's a huge thing.  Obviously that's why I need adjust a few things in my swing in order to play better golf there. So winning the PGA, winning this one now, I hope it will make Bernhard proud.  I'm sure it will make all Germany proud.  It's nice that I could win on Mother's Day, maybe it was four or five weeks ago.  Our Father's Day was already a couple of weeks ago in Germany, but I didn't get anything for my father that day, so maybe that works (laughter).
Q. Congratulations, Martin.MARTIN KAYMER: Thanks very much.




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT