U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 13, 2014
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Historic 36 holes at a U.S. Open.  Talk about your position and how you've been able to score so low?MARTIN KAYMER: Again, I didn't make many mistakes today.  I got a little tight the last three or four holes, but I made good up-and-downs, especially on 6 and 7. I hit enough fairways, enough greens, gave myself a few chances, made a couple longer putts today on 16 and then another one earlier. So I just, again, I didn't make many mistakes and it was nice that I never really got into some difficult positions from the rough.
Q. What did you do to your wrist and how is it now?MARTIN KAYMER: It's nothing, I just played too much golf.
Q. You're trying to do something that nobody has ever done before, shooting two 65s in the first two rounds of the U.S. Open or any Major Championship.  Nobody's ever done that.  How would you describe that?MARTIN KAYMER: Somebody has to do it at one stage.  It will happen at one stage.  I think that obviously you need to play very solid and you need a little bit of luck here and there, and that was on my side so far.  It's quite nice, I'm enjoying it, and yeah, that's it.
Q. Is that the best golf you've ever played for two days?MARTIN KAYMER: I played very well, I had some good rounds in the past as well.  But yesterday and today, especially today, the way I worked my way around the course, it was quite -- I hit some smart shots, I didn't play too aggressive and when I had a good number, I went for the flag and I didn't make many mistakes on the greens.  I didn't three putt, I made a lot of good putts today and yesterday.
Q. How good does it feel to be back to where you have been, the confidence and the game?  You played at the top level and here you are playing better than anybody in the world right now.MARTIN KAYMER: Yeah, it's just very, very satisfying.  I said to my caddie as well, there were a couple of shots today that I was surprised how good they were.  Because I was not expecting to hit it that close, because it was a tough pin and all of a sudden you end up with a very good birdie chance and you would have taken four from the fairway. So I'm just hitting the ball very solid right now and I think it's important to keep going and not try to relax.  And there's still a lot of stuff to improve on, but the way I played now is quite nice.
Q. How does this affect your game plan for the weekend?MARTIN KAYMER: I would like to see it as tough as possible.  I was always a fan of a golf course where you need to hit good golf shots and not really have a putting competition.
 
 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT