BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 22, 2014
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How do you feel that you played?
MARTIN KAYMER:   I played solid.   Didn't make many mistakes.   I would have loved to make a couple more putts, especially the last two holes.   If you make five on a par 5, you're never really happy; if you hit decent tee shots, so I would have loved to finish like that at the end of the day, but 68 is a good round.

Q.   Tell us how the course is playing with a bit of rainfall?
MARTIN KAYMER:   Yeah, the last six or seven holes, there was rain coming, rain going, rain coming and back and forth, then we had a little bit of a break.   The golf course yesterday played a lot different I thought.   The greens are very, very firm.   Even wet, you had to pitch short of the hole, and today was, yeah, fairly soft to play.   It was scorable.   The greens are just tricky.   It's a little bumpy, even in the morning.   So I think it's tough to shoot a very good round, a very low round, but I think Thomas proved that wrong. 

Q.   4‑under, very good and right in it.   You've been playing a lot of good golf, congratulations with your victory at THE PLAYERS Championship.   How are your energy levels at the moment?
MARTIN KAYMER:   It's okay.   I slept fairly well the last two or three nights, so it hasn't been that bad.   I've seen some friends and we've had some nice dinners together, so it's nice to gain a little more energy and motivation for a week like this.   Overall, I look forward to play three more rounds hopefully and hopefully every chance on Sunday.

Q.   What does it mean to play in the Flagship Event of The European Tour?
MARTIN KAYMER:   It's always a very nice start for me to come back to Europe after such a long time I've been in America, and then you come to Wentworth and play, yeah, probably the biggest event we play all year.   It's a lot of attention and a lot of fans come here and people support us.   It's just overall really, really nice family‑orientated event. 

Q.   Four birdies on the back nine, how pleased are you? 
MARTIN KAYMER:   I didn't make many mistakes, which was nice.   I played very solid the last few weeks.   The two bogeys I made today, they were fairly poor tee shots.   I would have loved to have finished a little better.   If you hit decent tee shots on 17 and 18, you hope for a four, and unfortunately I made two fives, but 68 is a good start.

Q.   Poor playing conditions today out there.   The course didn't seem to be too hard. 
MARTIN KAYMER:   Well, Thomas proved us wrong.   For him it seeped easy but it's definitely more difficult than the last few years I think.   They changed the bunkers a little bit, especially the sand in the bunkers.   But it definitely played different than yesterday and Tuesday, because the greens, they were a lot softer and yeah, I need three or four holes to adjust again.   Because yesterday, we had like pitching wedges and 9‑iron, ten, 12 meters in front of the hole, and today we could go straight at it, so that was a bit of a difference.

Q.   You didn't play extremely well in the past but seem to be okay now. 
MARTIN KAYMER:   Yeah, I've played okay in the past, never did great.   I started off well today.   I just like the event.   It's a really nice, family‑orientated tournament.   Some friends, they can drive over from Germany, it's not too far.   So hopefully my dad, he will come out this week end. 
So overall, I think it's a nice week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT