HP BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 16, 2014
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   We'll get started, welcome Martin Kaymer into the interview room after his second consecutive 3‑under par, 67 and his 6th round in the 60s in as many attempts at this golf course.   Martin, another solid round.   If we can get comments on your play today? 
MARTIN KAYMER:   It was really nice to play in the morning.   There was not much wind, the greens were perfect so I could take advantage of some long putts, they went in.   I didn't make many mistakes, the same as yesterday, I made only one bogey today, one bogey yesterday and I gave myself a lot of chances and even with the scoring, 8‑iron 9‑iron and wedge, I could have had better chances I thought but overall I'm happy with the way I played yesterday and today, again, you know, I didn't make mistakes, which is nice. 

Q.   How much of golf is momentum?   You're on a big swing right here, can you talk about how well you're playing? 
MARTIN KAYMER:   I think if you had a good week obviously you can take a lot into the next week.   You play a little bit more free, a little bit more relaxed and the tough part is to be relaxed but still very focused that you don't‑‑ that you care with the same‑‑ in the same way than the previous week.   I think that's always the balance you need to find.   Again, it's a new golf course, new golf tournament, a lot of things are different but ball‑striking wise, you can take a lot into the next week. 

Q.   It's kind of a similar question, but it's been a while on the PGA TOUR since anybody has won twice in a row and I was curious why you think that might be? 
MARTIN KAYMER:   When it might be? 

Q.   Why. 
MARTIN KAYMER:   Oh, why.   I think a lot of players and the media they asked me last week after my win if I take the next week off because that's a very common thing, apparently.   (Laughter.)   And I wonder a little bit about it.   I can see if you have a big win it's quite exhausting, especially when you have been in the lead‑‑ for me it was a very long week because I was leading from Thursday onwards and then you come here and everybody wants to talk to you and you don't have much time for yourself and you don't even have much time to reflect what really happened so I can see that reason but playing wise, if you still feel that you have some energy left, I think you should keep playing, because obviously you hit the ball good, otherwise you wouldn't have won the last week.   So I think that's a reason that a lot of people, they skip the next one or two weeks and don't play. 
Yeah, I mean, I had a good experience in 2010, I won pretty much three tournaments in a row, and I think there was just momentum, kept going, but I said earlier it's very difficult to come here and have some time for yourself, it's very important that you say "no" to some people so you can prepare for the tournament, because every tournament, every sponsor really deserves that you do your very best. 

Q.   Speaking of your energy, where would you say if it was a tank of gas, tank of energy, where are you right now?   Full?   Empty?   Somewhere in between? 
MARTIN KAYMER:   Right now you ask me after a round where I play in the morning, it's very empty. 
Tomorrow morning it will be full again.   But it's important that I have some rest this afternoon and drink and eat well and then be ready for the afternoon round tomorrow. 

Q.   Martin, did you decompress mentally after Sunday and did you have to recharge the batteries mentally at some point before you teed off yesterday? 
MARTIN KAYMER:   I was very tired on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, even the Pro‑Am, you know, the back nine I just felt done, you know, I just didn't want to play, I just wanted to go home and rest, because it's an important tournament for me this week.   But then I slept really well from Wednesday to Thursday and that was important to me, I ate a lot, so you have to take care of yourself a lot more.   It's very, very important that you‑‑ for me that I approach that week as any other week.   It doesn't matter‑‑ or it didn't matter what I would have done last week, no one cares about that anymore this week. 
It's a new week, and I want to do as good as possible here, and that's important that you tell yourself that and really act like this.   You can tell yourself and don't act like it, but I really want to do well.   It's my last week in America for the next, I think, six, seven weeks until I come back for the U.S. Open, four weeks, five weeks, whatever, and then I have a little bit of a break so I would like to put everything I have left into the Byron Nelson. 

Q.   Martin, do you remember the first tournament you ever won as a kid? 
MARTIN KAYMER:   Well, the first bigger one was the Club Championship in 1999 in the playoff. 

Q.   How old were you? 
MARTIN KAYMER:   15. 

Q.   Your whole process of coming back, now that you've won a huge event again, did you find yourself feeling happier or more content now that you can look and say I've reached a certain point again or is it pretty straight for you? 
MARTIN KAYMER:   It's still very early and I still have become better.   I play a lot better golf than in the last two years and I think I've played better golf than I've ever played, but there are always certain points and certain things that I have to become better with.   It's a constant process, and for me it's really enjoyable to work on things because long‑term you know it's going to become better and you will be very satisfied.   That's why a lot of people didn't understand when I changed, that I do for myself to be happy and satisfied with the way I play golf.   I'm not playing golf just to survive on certain golf courses, I want to play proper golf and hit the right shot.   I don't mind working.   It's a good job to have. 

Q.   How much different were the conditions today compared to yesterday? 
MARTIN KAYMER:   Well, the greens were really, really nice.   It was nice when you read it well and you hit a good stroke and it went in.   Yesterday they were a little bumpy in the end.   And there is not much wind, so I think there will be low scores this afternoon.   I was surprised yesterday, there were not more low scores, it must have been windy in the morning already.   So it will be an interesting weekend for us. 

Q.   You came into last week's event 192nd or something to that affect and scrambling but scrambled so well.   What did you find in your short game last week? 
MARTIN KAYMER:   I just hit many greens, I think.   I didn't think I missed many greens, or the greens that I missed they were most of the time in the bunker and I'm usually very good in the bunker so I didn't need to chip much.   From Bermuda grass it's tough to chip because it's difficult to judge. 

Q.   You were a little uncomfortable on 16? 
MARTIN KAYMER:   16 I should have chipped that one, 17 was just a very tough chip.   It was sitting down in the Bermuda grass, you know you're going to hit it fat because you can't get to the ball because of the grass. 
It comes out hot and then you chip it over the greens into the water, it can easily happen.   You look like an idiot, but it can happen.   That was the best I could do. 

Q.   You mentioned winning three times in a short span, the Byron Nelson, an incredible streak, can you fathom winning‑‑
MARTIN KAYMER:   Fathom, what does that mean? 

Q.   Can you understand winning 12 in a row? 
MARTIN KAYMER:   12?   Well, it was a different time.   Now to win 12 of course it's possible, but it's not possible.   12 in a row is, I think, the span of players, you know, is really wide.   Anybody can win these days those tournaments so if you've won two in a row you've done really well. 
THE MODERATOR:   Martin, thank you.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT