THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 11, 2014
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talk about having to get through that rain delay and getting back out there.   Was that tough?  
MARTIN KAYMER:   Well, obviously it was tough for me, to start off with a double bogey, that was not the ideal start.   
And then I think I made a couple mistakes coming in.   On 15 I should have given myself just a chance to make 4, the worst you make 5.   
Then on 16, I should have, I should have chipped that one.   
But what a putt on 17.   I mean, it was very, very tough to read, because it was already very dark.   But I don't care anymore, it went in.   
(Laughter.)   It's all good.  
   
 Q.   Just let it out there and let it run down there?   
MARTIN KAYMER:   No, it was still a lot of break left‑to‑right.   Obviously, left‑to‑right, downhill putt with the grain and the darkness it's not that easy.   There's always a little bit of luck involved.   But it was a good putt.  
I thought actually the tee shot, that was fine.   I was a little bit in between clubs, between wedge and gap wedge, but, under those circumstances, you take the shorter one and put a solid swing on it.   I thought I did, but it was, I think, a yard short.   So, but now I made 3, it's on the scorecard, so.  
   
 Q.   Did you think about the putt to clinch the Ryder Cup when you were out there on 17?  
MARTIN KAYMER:   Not on 17.   Because it was still another hole to go.   I just thought, if you 2‑putt this one, you still have a chance to win on 18 if you make birdie.   
But walking up on the 18th towards the 18th green, I thought a little bit about the Ryder Cup, how nice that feeling was, and that I've done it before.   And actually I think the first putt had a fairly good chance to go in.   But then the second putt was only three and a half feet or so.   It's never really easy if you're trying to win a golf tournament, but fortunately everything went well.   
   
 Q.   How significant is this win for you in your career?  
MARTIN KAYMER:   It's very difficult to answer right away after what just happened.   It is probably the biggest tournament we play all year, except the Majors.   But it's the same field, a lot of World Ranking points and the status of the tournament, if you can put your name on that trophy, it's quite a big pleasure.   It means that you have done very well for four days, played very consistent golf.   And I played very patient and so it's a big, big trophy and a big achievement for me.   
   
 Q.   Did you give your self a little bit of a talking to walking from the 15th green to the 16th tee, there's a little bit of a walk there, after making double bogey?   
MARTIN KAYMER:   Yeah, my caddie said, you're still leading the golf tournament, and it's a par‑5 coming up, which is usually not that difficult to make 4, once you hit the fairway.   I managed to make four 5's this week there.   
But I was always, I was always in the lead, I was never tied, or that I needed to chase something, which is a little bit of a cushion.   You have always a little bit of a cushion, but you still need to keep playing your game.   
And it was, all week I played fairly aggressive and that's the way I wanted to finish.   And that's why I was a little bit upset about my own mindset on 15 and 16, that I decided to putt that ball on 16 instead of chipping it.   That was not really the way I played all week, but that was my decision and I definitely will learn from it for the future.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT