THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 8, 2014
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Nine birdies, no bogey.   Course record maybe?  
MARTIN KAYMER:   I think it was.   It was a good day.   I started off good the back nine, so my front nine.   I hit a lot of good golf shots, I had a lot of chances.   
But then on the back nine I could take advantage of all the chances, pretty much.   I didn't make many mistakes, I hit a lot of fairways, lots of greens, and I could make the putts in the end.   
   
 Q.   You just caught fire.   
MARTIN KAYMER:   Yeah, it's just, if you don't ‑‑ if you hit the ball very well, if you strike it very well, you gain confidence, hole after hole, and then you feel like you can become maybe a little bit more aggressive.   
If you have only wedge or 9‑iron in your hand then you should be aggressive anyways, because the last pin positions there was not much danger around the hole.   
So, at the end of the day, it's about making the putts.   You can hit it as close as you want, but you need to finish the job.   Fortunately, I could do that on the back nine.  
   
 Q.   Were you aware of the course record?  
MARTIN KAYMER:   No, I didn't know and to be honest it's nice to have it, but it's just a nice bonus, it's only the first round of a long, long tournament.   It's nice to make some history.   No one shot 29 on that golf course before and I did it today, so it's nice.  
   
 Q.   How many course records do you have?   Any idea?  
MARTIN KAYMER:   No.   No.   And I don't care, really, that much.   I had a few when I was an amateur, but that's a long time ago.   
   
 Q.   The morning tee time tomorrow, what's the plan early?   Stay aggressive or just sort of be patient and let it come to you?  
MARTIN KAYMER:   I think we shouldn't talk too much into the 9‑under par.   It's special round.   The same when you shoot 3‑ or 4‑over par, it's not normal.   The normal is if you shoot something around par, or maybe a couple under.   So I just try to stay patient and what I say, it's only the first round.   
   
 Q.   Did you feel like you were in the zone on that front nine?   Did you feel like it was a special day?  
MARTIN KAYMER:   I've been in the zone before, if you want to call it zone, and didn't feel like it, it just felt really comfortable.   I just played golf.   That's, fortunately, I hit a lot of quality shots and could finish it off, but I just like playing golf right now, it's nice.   I don't need to think that much about my swing and it's just letting things happen right now.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT