WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 2, 2014
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   I'm guessing you're satisfied with what you played today and your position going into the weekend?
MARTIN KAYMER:   Yes, very happy.   Played good yesterday, didn't make too many putts, and today I felt like it was a little more difficult than yesterday, so I'll take that. 

Q.   Just over three years ago you were number one in the world, and I know you worked hard to get back to that form, and it's been slow, one top‑10 this season on the PGA TOUR.   Has it been difficult for you to remain optimistic that you'll get back there? 
MARTIN KAYMER:   It's a tough question, but it's a good question, because the answer might take longer. (Chuckles.)   But, no, it's just important that you stay calm and that you have enough patience and belief.   You know, the belief‑‑ if always the belief is there that you do the right thing and you work with the right people, it's okay.   But, you know, the change took me longer than I expected.   I was expecting six, seven months, and then I would be able to win tournaments again. 
I started after the Masters in 2011 and I was‑‑ I'm pretty much done with thinking, two or three weeks ago, but it's an exciting time now, and it took me three years, and in those three years it's painful sometimes, but you want to play well.   You think so much, and then it's tough to shoot good scores. 

Q.   When you talk about the "changes" you're talking about the changes in your swing.   You feel like now you go out and play and it's instinctual? 
MARTIN KAYMER:   I trust myself more.   Before I was relying on my caddy, asking a lot of people and you feel like‑‑ you can play the game, it's all within you.   You don't need to look for something special, there is nothing special.   Now it's just realizing to play golf again, because being yourself, seeing the shot, getting the shot, feeling it, just playing it. 

Q.   Martin, the first two rounds, are you happy with that? 
MARTIN KAYMER:   I mean, I played solid the last two days, didn't make many mistakes.   Obviously you do a couple of things here and there, not the way you wanted it, but overall 6‑under par is a very good score. 

Q.   Was the condition of the course different today than it was yesterday? 
MARTIN KAYMER:   No, I played in the morning yesterday so it was not that windy at all, and today was a lovely day and it was not that difficult to play.   The pins were in tough positions so you needed to hit good shots, but conditionwise and weatherwise, it was nice to play. 

Q.   What do you think is the toughest part of this golf course? 
MARTIN KAYMER:   Right now the greens.   Even though‑‑ you have to hit fairways, and then you can go for the flags, but the greens became a lot firmer with the new surface so you need to think a little bit more the way you want to pitch on it, because you don't get much backspin.   We've done it many times before in the past so we know what's going to happen. 

Q.   Do you find there are areas out there good for scoring? 
MARTIN KAYMER:   If you hit fairways you have chances to make birdies, because the golf course is not that long, but it would be nice to take a chance on the par 5s.   You need to use those because those are usually reachable in two. 

Q.   Martin, talk to us about your day. 
MARTIN KAYMER:   It was a good day.   I had a good start, I had a few chances, and fortunately I could use a couple of those.   Made a little mess out of 7, was very close to the green in two and then made bogey and chipped, 3‑putt, so overall I'm still pleased, 6‑under I think is a decent score. 

Q.   What's working for you out there? 
MARTIN KAYMER:   My ball striking has been very good the last couple of days, actually for the last two or three weeks already.   If I can get the short stick going then I can shoot very low.   By the end of the day I was pleased with the way I hit the drives.   I didn't make many mistakes, I hit a lot of fairways and therefore I could give myself a few birdie chances. 

Q.   Do you expect the course‑‑ you played for two rounds but do you expect maybe pin placements that may make the course trickier in the next couple rounds? 
MARTIN KAYMER:   I didn't think that the pins were that easy the first two days.   You know, they were in sneaky positions once in a while.   Obviously knowing those greens, because the surface has just changed and the contour has been the same, we know approximately where the pin is going to be.   It's always going to be a little more difficult on the weekends but it's not a huge difference. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks, matter in.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT