WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 1, 2014
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Martin started on hole No. 10, and he was finishing his round, eagle on the par 5, 7th and an eagle on the par 5, 8th, and bogeyed the last hole, and if you know Martin like I know him, he's generally an optimistic person.   So are you going to remember the eagles as you came in or the bogey on that final hole?
MARTIN KAYMER:   No, definitely the eagle.   I told my caddy to keep the ball.   It's very rare that you make two eagles in a row.   Overall 3‑under is a good round.   I left some shots out there, three, four putts that I expected myself to make, didn't happen.   It doesn't kick me out of the tournament; 3‑under par is a good round.

Q.   When we talked earlier you said that you liked the changes that Quail Hollow has undergone.   When you're out there competing, what is your take?
MARTIN KAYMER:   It's a little more difficult than I thought.   The pins, they put them on the greens in difficult positions, close to slopes where you ‑‑ for example, 16, usually you play a little bit away off of the water but when you're right on the flag, it's a downhill right to left putt, it's very difficult.   They put the pins in tough position today already so I was not expecting the course to play that difficult.
Therefore, I'm even more pleased with my round but I like just coming here.   It's one of the best courses we play all year.

Q.   Martin, some comments on your round, eagles in a row, there, back‑to‑back stuff there? 
MARTIN KAYMER:   Yeah, two eagles in a row, pretty rare.   I don't think I've ever done that before, so‑‑ I missed a lot of short putts today as well, so therefore 3‑under par is okay.   I stayed in the tournament, but overall it would have been nice to get a couple more shots here and there, because it was possible. 

Q.   Talk about the course overall in the morning. 
MARTIN KAYMER:   The first holes were lovely, not much wind, the greens were nice, but they put the pins in a difficult position so it was still difficult to make birdie.
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks, 
Martin.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT