TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN
November 4, 2018
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Very good week for you here in Turkey?  
MARTIN KAYMER: :  Yeah, I played very well.  I made two bogeys all week which is very nice.  I made a few good par saves during those four rounds.  Could have been a few more putts here and there but in general I didn't miss many fairways or greens.   
The game was really spot on this week.  I think I gave myself enough chances, and I needed a good finish to get into Dubai.  Hopefully that was enough.  But I'm really looking forward to play next week because I'm very close.   
 Q.  The long game seemed particularly good today.  You were giving yourself plenty of chances on the greens?  
MARTIN KAYMER: :  Yeah, all week, I was striking the ball very, very well.  I've done it the last few months but not that well.  Fortunately this week I could make a few more putts, not too many, but I would say normal, and then you have a decent result.   
 Q.  Obviously we know this can be a low-scoring golf course but also one or two can get away from you, so must be nice to have four consistent rounds this week?  
MARTIN KAYMER: :  There are a few tee shots that are a bit tricky, so you need to step up and really commit to the tee shot.  It helps if you hit the ball solid; that you don't really doubt or there's no reflex or any little things that can get in the way.  So that really helped and I played the tough holes actually very well, even under par.  So to build up on that was very good.   
Next week, I won on that golf course before, so that's certainly the goal.   
 Q.  I read that you said you're playing better golf now than back in 2011 when you were world No. 1.  Does that back this up this week with the performance?  
MARTIN KAYMER: :  Playing-wise, for sure.  Putting-wise, I need to work on it.  2010 and 2011 I putted really, really well.  I know what I need to do and what I need to work on in the winter time.  Maintain the long game, work on the short game, and then we should be fine.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT