WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 2, 2013
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   New course record, please tell me how you managed that. 
MARTIN KAYMER:   Well, I made a lot of birdies, which is really nice today.   I didn't really play much different than the last few days.   I just made a few putts, a couple unexpected ones.   I think you need those to shoot really low. 
Yeah, I just hit a lot of great golf shots.   It was really nice.   It was really enjoyable and actually after six, seven holes, you think about, okay, how low can today be, because if you hit the ball that well ‑‑ and, then, yeah, it was 10‑under.

Q.   Six birdies in the first seven, so presumably you knew it was going to be a pretty special day?
MARTIN KAYMER:   I've shot 59 before and I thought, there's a chance, especially after my birdies on 4,5,6.   You have three holes to go and you need three birdies.   I thought I had a good chance on 7, but then I went for the green on 8 but got in the bunker and had an unlucky lie, and had another chance on 9.   But you can't make them all.   It was definitely my thought.   It would be nice to shoot it twice.

Q.   Are you tightening up when you're sensing 59 is possible? 
MARTIN KAYMER:   That's what I said to Craig when we walked down 7,8, I said, I feel really calm.   It was strange, when I was shooting 59 in the past in 2006, I didn't really think about 59, but I was more nervous and very tight and today was really enjoyable, because I didn't play special.   I made it really easy for myself, and sometimes that's the difference between shooting 10‑under par or only 1‑ or 2‑under sometimes.   There's not much of a difference; you need a little luck. 

Q.   You're very nicely in contention.   How do you win this thing?   I know Dustin Johnson is so far ahead at the moment?
MARTIN KAYMER:   If you would have asked me that yesterday, I would have said, yeah, Top‑10 would have been a nice finish.   But now after shooting 10‑under, in the end of the day, it's about trying to get as high as possible.   I think he's 16‑, 17‑under par, so he's still six or seven shots ahead of me and has a few holes to go.   Very playable today.   We just have to wait until tomorrow.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT