ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 28, 2013
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   On a day when you needed a good score to get you in position to win this championship tomorrow, how pleased to get just that?  
MARTIN KAYMER:   Yeah, I mean, the same as yesterday, perfect conditions again.   We played the Old Course, and fortunately I could make a few putts.   Yesterday I had a similar amount of chances and I couldn't make the putts and that's a little frustrating.   You shoot 5‑ or 6‑under par and that's a good score but you don't gain a lot of spots.   Today fortunately I could convert, I would say 80 per cent of the birdie chances I've had.  
   
 Q.   You're out there with your brother and he's got your father on the bag, how special on a day like this, sun shining, and you're shooting 63?  
MARTIN KAYMER:   Well, you tell me if there's any better or different golf course you want to play under those conditions.   What you said, perfect weather, and I played with my brother and we made the cut for tomorrow, my dad is caddying for me‑‑ I don't know if it gets any better.   You have a good day of playing and it's almost impossible not to enjoy it.   It's a really nice day.  
   
 Q.   You're the first to admit this has not been your best season; have you felt this sort of performance coming?  
MARTIN KAYMER:   I'm playing good since a couple months, but it just hasn't happened.   Score‑wise, it was not good, but I feel like I'm playing good enough, but it was always one of those things, one day or two days of the tournament, is like you shoot a little bit over par and you never have a chance to win.  
And I'm not coming here to finish 10th or 20th or just to make the cut, compared to the other years I came to the tournaments to win and that just has not been there this year.  
But a performance like yesterday and today, yeah, is very nice and helps a lot in the confidence.   First two rounds, I flushed it, hit it really, really well.   Today, got off to a bit of a struggle, timing wasn't there quite at the start.   I missed a lot of chances and I still shoot a good score.   Today I could make a lot of birdie putts, and I missed a couple here and there, but overall, I think 9‑under, yeah, is a fantastic score.  
   
 Q.   I take it, it's so wonderfully relaxed when you have your brother here, when you've got your father here, seems almost like not playing in a championship?  
MARTIN KAYMER:   It was very strange, on 16 and 17, I hit a few‑‑ I had a couple of sneaky par putts, but I was not nervous at all.   I was excited to be here and play that golf course.   But usually when you are in those situations, your heart rate goes a little up.   But with my brother here and my dad, always in between shots, you can have a little chat about whatever that you don't talk about usually, and that calms you down.   It's really relaxing.   
   
 Q.   Dare I ask what you were talking about?   
MARTIN KAYMER:   Well, obviously we were talking about a few other players, and on 16 we talked about‑‑ Craig, my caddie, he said it would be even better if your father could play and your brother was caddying.   I said, well, it would be more fun, you would see more‑‑ not terrible shots, but shots that you thought, really, is that possible to do.   
So just some silly jokes.  
   
 Q.   At the start of the week, you didn't think you'd have a chance in the team event, but you're nicely in place as a team?  
MARTIN KAYMER:   I think the combination of the way we played was really good.   Today the first I played well, 6‑under par, and he didn't play very well but then on the back nine he came back and he hit a lot of good shots.   He made actually three birdies on the back nine.   So the combination was very good, but his handicap is so low that it's very tough to win.   I think we got the most out of it and we are still eight or nine behind.   
But that is not that important.   The important is that we can play tomorrow again and play another round in St. Andrews.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT