ALSTOM OPEN DE FRANCE
July 4, 2013
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Your thoughts on where you've started this tournament, please.   
MARTIN KAYMER:   Good.   I hit a lot of good shots today, a lot of fairways, a lot of greens.   The greens were fantastic, even in the afternoon.   So there's no reason to find anything on the golf course that might reflect a bad round.   The golf course plays absolutely perfect and that was really nice to play.   
I had a good group, really enjoyable to play with.   So there was nothing bad about that day.  
   
 Q.   I must admit, we were a little surprised that the afternoon was looking like it was going to be even better than the morning; the course really does hold up well, doesn't it.   
MARTIN KAYMER:   I think we had a little bit of an advantage because there was not much wind in the end.   The last 12, nine holes there, was nothing really, so that was a big advantage to the guys that played in the morning.   
But the course played perfect.   What I said earlier; the greens, usually they get worse in the afternoon, if you play regular European Tour events, but here, it was fantastic.   So I'm very glad.   But I do like the golf course anyways.   Obviously you hear that; I just enjoy being here.  
   
 Q.   And the atmosphere good for a first day?   
MARTIN KAYMER:   Yeah, it was nice.   On the back nine, obviously there were a few more, because the TV groups who started in the morning, they were just finishing, so on the back nine we had a few more people.   Very good crowds.   Even a few guys they were for Matt.   He comes from America and there was a little European/American thing today.   He had a lot of fans out there and also we did, too.  
   
 Q.   Was there conversation between the two of you, as well as between the crowd?  
MARTIN KAYMER:   There was nothing about The Ryder Cup or anything.   We all agreed that they don't need to change anything.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT