ALSTOM OPEN DE FRANCE
July 3, 2013
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MARTIN KAYMER:   I think the first year I came here was 2007 and already then I thought this is a golf course that I will like in the future for sure.   I finished well on that year already and obviously 2009 I had a very nice success here with the win.   I think the golf course definitely improves every year. 
I played yesterday nine holes, practice round.   They made it a lot firmer, so they put some sand on the fairways to make it faster, I think preparing for The Ryder Cup.   But I always felt this golf course was the perfect preparation for the British Open.   If they would move this week, the week before the British Open, it would be ideal.

Q.   It's so linksy, isn't it, you wouldn't expect it near to Paris, but it's got that feel. 
MARTIN KAYMER:   It's a links golf course because it plays very fast.   That's why it plays like a links golf course.   Very exciting finish, but very fair golf course.   If you hit quality shots, if you know where you can place the ball, you have a lot of chances, but you can always, always screw up. 
It's very exciting for the spectators, for us players, even if you are three shots behind, you know if you make a couple of birdies, the leader can always make a bogey or a double‑bogey in the end.   So it's very exciting, it's never over.

Q.   And that means you have to be on your game pretty much throughout; you can't relax out there. 
MARTIN KAYMER:   The thing is that you have to hit fairways.   The rough, it's not too thick, but sometimes you have some holes where there's a lot of water in front of the green where you can't run it up, so you need to be on the fairway in order to make birdies, and sometimes even to hit the green in regulation. 
So once you do that, then it's fairly simple, because the greens are not too complicated.   One of the best golf courses we play all year. 

Q.   I take it your game is still in good shape after the fine run at Munich? 
MARTIN KAYMER:   Yeah, Munich was a really nice week.   What I said there already, was one of the best weeks, besides my win that I had in 2008, but one of the best weeks I've played in Germany.   Then had a very nice start, played well the entire week.   Not much went right on the weekend, not much happened, but it was fine.   I played consistent, I gave myself a lot of chances.   And therefore, I really look forward to the next few weeks with big tournaments coming up and starting here in France.

Q.   You said there your attitude was spot‑on, imagine taking a bit of a break afterwards you're relaxed and confident coming into this one? 
MARTIN KAYMER:   Munich is always a tough week for me but we planned it really well, and after that I had a few days off and I went to Wimbledon, watched some tennis.   It's always interesting when you watch one of the best players. 
I watched Djokovic on Saturday and I went and with so much confidence he plays, so much belief and trust in his skills, you can learn so much for yourself on the golf course.   He's a world‑class player, and the way he behaves and the way he's acting is stunning.   That's why he's so good, I believe.   Obviously great talent, but the way he's playing tennis, is different, so much commitment.   And if you transfer that commitment to yourself on the golf course, it's brilliant, so that's why I really enjoyed my time there, because you can always learn something for my sport.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT