BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 22, 2013
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Slightly unfortunate finish, frustrating day?  
MARTIN KAYMER:   Not at all.   Played really well.   I think the best round I've played the last three days.   I made a lot of really, really good putts, but it's just tough.   I don't know if today, I missed a couple feet from the hole‑‑ you make a good putt but anything can happen.   
   
 Q.   You weren't feeling so good yesterday, but back in tiptop shape today?   
MARTIN KAYMER:   Yeah, had a good night, slept really well.   Just a little something wrong with my stomach yesterday but for now, I'm feeling ready for tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   How do you approach the final round?   Will you try to do anything different when you go out tomorrow?   
MARTIN KAYMER:   No.   If I continue the way I've played, it will be nice.   I hit a lot of fairways, a lot of greens.   The golf course, you can't force it; you've got to wait and wait, and hopefully those things like what happened on 18 today will happen tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Is the crowd worth an extra shot to you?   
MARTIN KAYMER:   Yeah, I mean, it's really nice.   Especially late in the day, I thought they would leave after nine holes, go home and have dinner, but it's really nice, the extra support.   And tomorrow, it looks like I'm going to play with Marcel, so there's going to be a group of people out there to support us.   
It was okay, I played really well.   I hit a lot of good golf shots today.   Unfortunately didn't make a lot of putts, even though I hit a lot of good putts today.   If they started on line, they jumped in a lot of different directions, especially after the rain, the greens became really bumpy but everybody has to handle that.   We saw a lot of short putts that missed, but at the end of the day, I'm only two or three shots behind.   
   
 Q.   A terrific position and you know there will be birdies to be made tomorrow?  
MARTIN KAYMER:   Yeah, that golf course is all about giving yourself chances.   Today it was really nice, I hit a lot of good shots and I gave myself so many chances.   Just about making the putts, and if you hit good putts that don't go in‑‑ it's fine, it's totally okay.  
   
 Q.   You seem to be enjoying it, as you should; you're embracing it?  
MARTIN KAYMER:   Yeah, I'm just very thankful for the support.   It was really nice to play, because I actually thought after nine holes, everybody leaves for an early dinner, but they stayed.   
They stayed with me and they supported me, and I had a nice start on the back nine for a couple birdies on 11 and 12.   I would have loved to make the birdie on 18, but that's fine.   
   
 Q.   I imagine the answer is obvious, but what's needed on the final day?  
MARTIN KAYMER:   Not much more than what happened to me the last three days.   It's all about putting yourself one or two shots behind going into the last four or five holes, and that is my goal for tomorrow.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT