BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 21, 2013
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MARTIN KAYMER:   The golf course definitely played a bit longer today and there was more winds, and the pins, they were the biggest difference.   Yesterday there were a lot of pins where we could go at it.   Today, had to play a little more conservative, so there for you don't make as many putts.   So you couldn't play as aggressive as yesterday.  
   
 Q.   How do you compare your game today to what you shot yesterday?   
MARTIN KAYMER:   Very similar.   I just didn't make as many putts, that was the only problem.   I had three 3‑putts today, so that's never great, especially on two par 5s, it was definitely tougher today to play.   
   
 Q.   You talked yesterday about putting yourself in the right position, you must love the position you're in now heading into the weekend?   
MARTIN KAYMER:   We'll see where I'm at by the end of the day, but I would love to pick up the last shot on the last hole, that would have been nice.   But overall, I'm playing okay.   I just don't feel very well.   I need to see the restroom very quickly.  
   
 Q.   What's wrong?  
MARTIN KAYMER:   I had a little incident on the golf course after the 18th, so I have to go straight to the restroom, I just don't feel as good as yesterday, so it would be nice if we can keep it short.  
   
 Q.   Just the crowds, very quickly, 25th anniversary, how great is the support?  
MARTIN KAYMER:   It's surprising, the age of the crowds, in the past, there were more older people.   But these days, there's a good mix.   A lot of kids were out here today, even though they should be in school but it's a nice mix.   
Had to play a little more conservative than yesterday, but unfortunately I didn't make as many putts as yesterday, and that can easily cost you a few shots.  
   
 Q.   I gather you're not feeling particularly well?  
MARTIN KAYMER:   Well, obviously golf‑wise, it was not the greatest day.   I felt so bad the first nine.   You could see me running back into the clubhouse after I made the putt on 18.   So I was glad that I had a few minutes there.   It's just one of those days where just not a great day, but it's fine.   It's a combination of yesterday, 9‑under par is still a good position I'm in.  
   
 Q.   That position is nicely placed for the weekend and hopefully if you get better you can move on from here.   
MARTIN KAYMER:   Yeah, I think once I have a few minutes for myself, I will be feeling a lot better, but we will see what the other guys are going to play in the afternoon.   But I think I did everything I could yesterday and today.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT