BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 20, 2013
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Tell me how pleased you are with your start here in Munich? 
MARTIN KAYMER:   Well, in general the last few months, I haven't had a low round at all, so obviously it's a little bit of a different golf course that we play this week, so there are lots of chances.   But it's a nice start.   The expectations were very high.   I put a lot of pressure on myself.   Obviously it's the only tournament we play in Germany, so very pleased.   I'm very happy. 

Q.   How difficult is it to manage the expectations you expressed in your medicine Yao conferences this week, in terms of giving yourself more time?   Is it hard to get the balance right, for to you play good golf but also to satisfy everybody's demands?
MARTIN KAYMER:   No, not anymore. 

Q.   Not this year. 
MARTIN KAYMER:   No, I've done a few mistakes in the past.   You know, the first priority is golf and that is why we are here.   I think a lot of people, they are happy when I'm playing well instead of running from A to B.   It's about golf and it's about performance and I think there was a focus for this week, and that's why I changed a couple things, and I think we did very well.   I feel refreshed.   I feel ready to go and I want to play golf.

Q.   You've obviously won this tournament before, five years ago; what did winning here in your homeland mean to you?
MARTIN KAYMER:   It was a very good situation that I've been in.   It was‑‑ I think it was my second year on Tour.   I had just won in Abu Dhabi for the first time and then I came here leading by six shots in the final round, and obviously I had to win.   I was almost engraved on the trophy already by all the people here. 
But still, it was tough to play, and in the playoff, I could finally win it, and I still remember all those pictures from the people who are waving the flags, the German flags, behind the green and it was just a very, very nice experience.   I hope we can experience those things more here in Germany.

Q.   Would you like another one? 
MARTIN KAYMER:   Yeah, I would.   I just want to put myself in position.   It's not so much about really trying to win.   I try to put myself in position on Sunday, and then we will see and I think I will have an advantage with the people here and very good support.   I had fun today and I had a good group, too, to play with. 

Q.   Seeing Ernie shooting 63 heading out, what was your mind‑set? 
MARTIN KAYMER:   Oh, tough question, obviously 9‑under is a very special score, and there were a lot of low scores out there.   But in the end of the day, if you play in the afternoon on Thursday, I see that as an advantage, because usually your mind‑‑ the greens, they are not as good as in the morning, so you don't have to make that many birdies as the other guys. 
So if you play a good round on Thursday morning‑‑ sorry, Thursday afternoon, usually you have better conditions Friday morning. 
I think the key today was I made a lot of putts.   That was a very important putt on the 5th today.   I could save a par and that kept the momentum and to back it up with a birdie on the last hole, and I had a lot of chances on the back nine and I pretty much made all of them and that put me in a very good position. 
I think in the end of the day, it's an advantage if you play in the afternoon, even though there are a lot of low scores played in the morning, but you know the golf course, if you play in the afternoon, is a little bit tougher, because the greens, they are not as good. 
Usually the wind picks up a little bit, so therefore, I think I made a lot of things good today.   I think I put myself in a good position so far. 

Q.   I take it that you have to have the right thought process, as well, when you go into an event knowing that 9‑under is effectively leading when you're starting off? 
MARTIN KAYMER:   Yeah, it doesn't help if you expect yourself to shoot a similar score.   Again, you know what I said, it is an event that knowing that you play a tougher course usually in the afternoon, and then make up some shots on Friday morning.   So, yeah, 9‑under, there are always two or three guys, they run away, but usually they don't run all four rounds.   At one stage, they put on the hand brake a little bit. 
So, it was fine.   I think I played a decent round today.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT