BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 19, 2013
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Your thoughts on playing an event in Germany‑‑
MARTIN KAYMER:   Unfortunately only one this year; the last few years, we have only BMW as a sponsor for The European Tour (in Germany) and obviously for me it's very nice to come home.   We don't really have the chance to sleep in your own bed very often. 
But also, you know, it's a little bit more pressure, the expectations; the expectations from people, the expectations from yourself.   You put a little bit more pressure on yourself, but it's a fine line to find the combination of using the support from the fans and the spectators, and your will, you put it all together and try to get a good result.

Q.   Not easy to strike the right balance, is it, because everybody wants just a little piece of you at this event more than any other?
MARTIN KAYMER:   Yes, it's a little bit more complicated but at the same time it's fairly simple if you organize it well.   I think this week, we organised it a lot better than last year, because last year, I could not really enjoy the week.   You went from A to B and everybody wants something and you don't really calm down, and it's a shame and that's not the way it's supposed to be, because the priority is to play well.   It's about golf this week.   It's not about anything else.

Q.   And presumably, you are there for enjoying this week a bit more than you have done perhaps in the past?
MARTIN KAYMER:   Yeah, you know, this week, I organized things a little bit different and I have a little bit more time for myself.   But also spend time with the media, which is fine.   We were very good, organized yesterday, the way we did it, everybody was happy.   Everybody was satisfied the way things went and now we can focus on golf.   And I just played the Pro‑Am, I will practise a little bit later, go home, chill, and hopefully shoot a good round tomorrow.

Q.   How is the game?
MARTIN KAYMER:   It's very tough, when you come from the U.S. Open, if you tell me how my game is, you shot 19 over par, I can't tell you I'm playing well.   You know, it sounds stupid. 
But I'm not playing bad.   It's just one of those weeks when you come from the U.S. Open, you don't really know what you're going to get the next week, so today was fine.   I played fairly well, the Pro‑Am.   The golf course, I do enjoy it.   I had success here. 
So I'm looking forward to the whole week.   It's a different week than the last few years for me, so I hope I can enjoy it more.

Q.   And it is a difficult transition, isn't it, when birdie is a rarity in the U.S. Open and out here, there should be plenty of them?
MARTIN KAYMER:   Yeah, U.S. Open, you just try to hold on, pretty much from Thursday morning, until Sunday afternoon, and here is a little bit chasing.   But to be honest, when I played the Pro‑Am this morning, I didn't‑‑ I could not remember the golf course that tough.   I'm not saying it's a very difficult golf course, but I thought it's easier. 
The fairways are a little bit tighter.   They changed a few tee boxes and they made it a little bit longer, so in the end of the day, it did become a better golf course because the changes‑‑ change doesn't always mean improvement, but on this golf course, I think the people, they did a really good job. 
So, we will see.   But we'll be fine. 

Q.   One last thing, with the U.S. Open in mind, what are your thoughts on Justin Rose winning a first major? 
MARTIN KAYMER:   So nice.   I was so happy for him.   Because I know how hard he worked the last couple years.   And we had dinner with his caddie, I think five, six months ago or so, and he was so motivated.   He was so motivated and he was so into it, and he wanted almost to win more than a player I thought. 
And to see Justin, winning a major, I didn't know how many years ago it is that an English guy won a major but it must have been almost 20 years, 15, 20 years; and now Justin got it done, in combination with his caddie, how much they put into it.   I was very, very happy for him.   It was nice to see.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT