BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 21, 2013
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  SARAH GWYNN:   Martin, thank you very much for joining us today, welcome back to Wentworth.   It must be nice to be back with all your Ryder Cup Team mates.   
MARTIN KAYMER:   Yeah, hopefully we are going to play together, that would be really nice.   But it's very nice that everybody really came.   We were talking about it, The Ryder Cup already in the weeks before, in the months before this event even, and I'm really happy that everybody showed up.  
SARAH GWYNN:   Have you had a chance to see the West Course this week yet?   
MARTIN KAYMER:   No, I came in yesterday, because I played in Dallas last week.   So this morning, I just stayed in bed (smiling).   
SARAH GWYNN:   And you had a good result last week, so you must be feeling good about your game.  
MARTIN KAYMER:   Yeah, I played really well.   The last few weeks I played good golf but it never showed really on the scorecard but last week was fine.   
We had some tough conditions, and that made it a little bit easier for me, because the expectations are not as high that you should have to shoot 5‑ , 6‑under par, so you just plug along and scramble your way around and add it up and that was quite nice for me to post a good score on that Sunday on a really tough golf course, and finish fifth, which was fine.   
   
 Q.   You said after The Ryder Cup that you were hoping that the putt would give you more confidence when you went back to stroke play; do you think it's worked out that way for you?  
MARTIN KAYMER:   I do have more confidence.   I think I will take confidence for a long, long time.   What I said, I practised a lot‑‑ actually, a lot the last few months, on short game, on my swing, and in the end of the day, it's a big puzzle right now that I have to find some‑‑ that has to find its own way to get together, and it's getting there.   
Last week was a really nice week for me.   But I feel very confident.   And it's just a matter of time that I will win.   My last win was only five months ago, six months ago.   But in the end of the day, it's all about winning.  
   
 Q.   Do you have an opinion on the news that's come out today that the ban on anchored putters is going to go ahead?   
MARTIN KAYMER:   I'm very glad that it's over; that we don't need to talk about it anymore.   There was so many talks about it, all the opinions.   I'm just glad that it's off the table now; that a decision has been made.   That's it.   
   
 Q.   As you said, you played in the States over the weekend and today is Tuesday; how do you feel physically?   Do you feel physically ready for Wentworth this week?  
MARTIN KAYMER:   Yes, I feel good.   I've been here many times before.   I wonder if they have changed anything on the golf course.   I haven't heard and I haven't really asked anyone yet.   I will see tomorrow when I'm playing the Pro‑Am.   I slept really well last night and it's all about sleeping this week until you get back to 100 per cent and hopefully will reach 100 per cent at the weekend.  
I feel fine.   I've done a lot of fitness in a few weeks and a few months, and I don't mind the jet‑lag that much, that's okay.   Tonight at the function will be a little bit of a tough one because we are going to stay there until probably 10.30, 11.00; that will be a tough one to stay 100 per cent fit until all of the ceremonies and prize‑giving and all that stuff is over.   In the end of the day, that will be fine.   When Thursday comes, I will be ready.   
   
 Q.   As a follow‑up, the decision this morning, in the view of the PGA seems like it's not closed because they have gone away to consider the judge's verdict.   Do you think as a PGA TOUR member, now that this is a formal rule of golf, that the PGA TOUR should abide by the judgment's decision?  
MARTIN KAYMER:   To be honest with you, I really don't care.   Honestly, I really don't care about the topic anymore.   
Yes, they ask us once about our opinions.   I made my statement.   In the end of the day, it's not cheating, I believe, because you still have to practise with a putter in order to become good; it's not like all of a sudden you pick it up and you make more putts.   But I really don't care anymore.   I'm just tired of that question.   
   
 Q.   Can I ask you a fresh question?  
MARTIN KAYMER:   Yes, please.  
   
 Q.   Paul McGinley was in earlier this morning to announce he was going to have three wild card picks.   Just wonder what the reaction to that is, as opposed to, say, Ollie, who only had two picks?  
MARTIN KAYMER:   When I think about it‑‑ I'm not sure, does he take five from the World Rankings?   Yeah, I think it's a good decision in the end, because sometimes there are some players that should be on the team but they have not performed the way they are supposed to; and if you will miss out‑‑ if you have only two picks, you know, I think we had it three years ago, it was Justin Rose, Harrington, Paul Casey and someone else‑‑ and Luke, Edoardo, as well.   
So you want all of them on the team but you have only two picks.   And I think Paul didn't go, Paul didn't play, and he was Top‑10 in the world.   So that was a tough one.   So in that case, he gives himself more options which he can do whatever he wants; he's captain, three picks, if he wants three picks, that's good.   
   
 Q.   On the American tour now on the range, when you're walking around, has there been any chat about you being the guy; any discussions with the American players about you being the guy to nail The Ryder Cup for The European Team?   Have you had any jokes about it?   
MARTIN KAYMER:   From the other players?   
   
 Q.   Any teasing?   
MARTIN KAYMER:   To be honest with you I had about 98 per cent, they really respect what happened there.   Nothing really happened on the range.   
But when I was back in Scottsdale a couple times in the gym and once when I went and had dinner, there were guys that came out and said, I didn't really like you before, but now I really hate you (laughter).   But they said it in a way that was, I'm not sure if it was funny, because they were not that funny about it.   I think they were serious (laughing).   And it was fine, I don't care.   In the end of the day, it's a sport and it's about you play for pride.   Imagine if I wouldn't have made the putt, I don't know if I would have came back here.   Probably would kill me here.   
So, no, I think I get a lot of respect for what The European Team has done, and in the end I was fortunate to make that last putt.   But I had a couple incidents that were a little strange.   
   
 Q.   We are ordinary golfers, if golfers at all; it would take me a year to stop thinking about that almost every hour of every day.   How long did it take you to stop thinking about that putt, or have you stopped thinking about it?  
MARTIN KAYMER:   Well, not as much as you do (laughter).   
But I think about it once in awhile, when I have some very important putts on the golf course.   Like simple putts; if it's the first round and you struggle to make birdies and then you want to get the momentum going, then you have one of those 10‑, 12‑footers, and then it pops up.   You think, oh, I have done very important putts in my career already, so now would be the time to make one.   
Or when I played in South Africa last year, I'm not sure if I was leading, or one or two behind, and I know‑‑ or I knew when I go into the final round, if it comes down to crucial moments the last two or three holes, I will be very‑‑ I am prepared very well because I have done something very special a couple months ago.   
So just the belief that you experienced it, I gained from The Ryder Cup, is very valuable.   
   
 Q.   Bringing it back to this week and the PGA Championship, do you like this golf course; in particular, the 18th hole, and does the course suit your eye?  
MARTIN KAYMER:   I did like it more before to be honest with you.   I think they should have kept it the way it was.   It was really nice to play here.   
Now, it became a little bit different.   I think they have changed the feeling of Wentworth a little bit, which is a shame.   But we can create new history on the other hand.   
18th hole, yes, it's a little bit more spectacular.   But is it really a better hole?   I'm not sure.   You can screw up or you can make three; so it's very entertaining.   
But for us players, if you make a hole longer or if you‑‑ it doesn't mean it's better.   I don't think it's a really better finish.   I think they could have changed a few other things that are more necessary than they have done.   But the whole flair of being here at Wentworth, I mean, for me, it's probably my top three tournaments in the year.   
   
 Q.   I might ask you that again tomorrow when you've played the 18th again.   
MARTIN KAYMER:   Has it changed?   
   
 Q.   It's not changed as much.   
MARTIN KAYMER:   Okay.   
   
 Q.   Talking about three venues, there's three venues you haven't played, three majors left this year, wondering what you know, and will your preparations alter given you haven't played them.   
MARTIN KAYMER:   Alter?   What does that mean?   
   
 Q.   Change, preparation change.   
MARTIN KAYMER:   From the last few years.  
   
 Q.   Will you go to Merion‑‑  
MARTIN KAYMER:   I am going to Alvaro's wedding the week before, it will be my first Spanish wedding, too.   I've never been to one.   Yeah, I've never played the golf course.   I think we played Merion; I've never played that before.   
The British Open, I'll probably go on a little trip with my manager and some friends before the British Open and we'll play somewhere in Scotland.   I think Johan, he will pick the spot.   
   
 Q.   Scottish Open?   
MARTIN KAYMER:   Probably not.   And PGA Championship, obviously we are going to play Firestone the week before.   
SARAH GWYNN:   We'll wrap it up, thanks, Martin, good luck this week.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT