WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 22, 2013
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Good job advancing.   Desert golf, you're a guy who spends a good amount of time in Arizona; you're pretty comfortable with that?
MARTIN KAYMER:   Yeah, I have a place here since five, six years, so this is golf that I play very often.   I don't mind playing here.   I like it, it's just really nice.   That's why I always play very well in the Middle East, very similar conditions to here. 

Q.   He beat you in the Match Play, didn't he, Volvo? 
MARTIN KAYMER:   He did.

Q.   Nice to get revenge?
MARTIN KAYMER:   It was a tough match.   It's never easy against him.   But he was very unfortunate with some putts today.   He had a few chances to go back to all square, especially on the back nine, but I played very solidly.   Hit a lot of fairways, hit a lot of greens, hit good putts.   Very similar to yesterday.

Q.   You told us yesterday that you were feeling a little nervous.   How was the emotion today?
MARTIN KAYMER:   Yeah, I don't know why yesterday.   I think obviously first round is tough, but today was different.   I was very calm.   I could enjoy it more.   Yesterday it was not very enjoyable because I was thinking too much about myself, why I'm in that‑‑ why do I feel that.   And today was good. 

Q.   How well are you playing, very well? 
MARTIN KAYMER:   I'll tell you something. 

Q.   You've probably been asked this before, but what made you choose Arizona?   Was it a visit here, someone who told you‑‑
MARTIN KAYMER:   Long story.   Long story.   Some friends of mine have lived here since 20 years, and they invited me to come here six years ago in the wintertime to practice to get ready for the TOUR, and then I was here all winter by myself.   I made a few friends during that time.   Yeah, and then I stayed here.

Q.   Clearly the winter here probably better than the winters back home as far as practicing and playing golf?
MARTIN KAYMER:   Well, it was not better here Wednesday than in Germany.   But in general it's 70 degrees; that's the average temperature here.   Usually it's nicer here.

Q.   How crazy was Wednesday for you, seeing all that snow come down?
MARTIN KAYMER:   It was tough.   It was a tough first round because it was over 24 hours, so it was not easy to stay‑‑ obviously you can stay focused, but on Wednesday afternoon you need to find something to do to keep yourself busy so you don't hang out in your hotel room all day.   That was a little bit of a tough one.   So I watched a few movies, went to Dick's Sporting Goods, had a look around there.

Q.   How much are you looking forward to tomorrow, getting right back out there?
MARTIN KAYMER:   I played against Hunter already two years ago.   That was a good match.   I could barely‑‑ I won in the end, but it was a tough, really tight match, and he became a lot better player the last two years.   I have a lot of respect for him.   So it will be very tough tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT