ABU DHABI HSBC GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 20, 2013
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Do you walk away satisfied with your performance?  
MARTIN KAYMER:   Not really.   I came here with a lot of expectations, but the end of the day I didn't hit enough fairways to give myself more birdie chances.   
Today I played better and hit more fairways in general, had a lot of good chances but hit a lot of edges, so overall, it was okay, and hopefully it gets me ready for the next couple weeks.  
   
 Q.   Is it back to the drawing board?   Are you comfortable with the way you're swinging it?   
MARTIN KAYMER:   I mean, the golf course became definitely a little more tougher over the years.   I think I swing it okay but it's always one of those things, the first week you come back after such a long break, you don't really know what to get, and it took me a couple days to figure out how the way I swing the club.   
But what I said, you know, today was better, so next week, hopefully I can start off with a better start on Thursday.   
   
 Q.   What changes have you seen with this tournament since you first came here?   
MARTIN KAYMER:   The field.   The field definitely became a lot better.   The golf course became tougher.   More spectators out here.   Obviously Tiger played the last couple years, so that makes a big difference.   
But HSBC, they got involved, so every time they are involved, it becomes bigger; it becomes bigger, better and better quality, otherwise not that many good players would come here and play.  
   
 Q.   What's the most important event on the early season Desert Swing?   
MARTIN KAYMER:   For me this one.   I've been very successful.   What I said earlier, the field becomes better so more World Ranking points.   But to be honest, all three of them, they are nice.   But for me, if you have won here two times, then it's always a nice place to come back, and I will come here many more years.   
   
 Q.   How do you reflect on this week?  
MARTIN KAYMER:   It was okay.   It was not my best week.   It was okay.   At the end of the day, I didn't hit enough fairways to give myself more chances.   My short game was good.   I was very pleased with, that especially after such a long break.   But overall, it was an okay week.   
   
 Q.   Is this frustrating, or after a long break, is it, okay, because you have a prominent finish once again here?  
MARTIN KAYMER:   Not really frustrating.   It was a little bit difficult sometimes on the golf course knowing that you have to make birdies.   You put yourself a little under pressure in order to put some pressure on the guys up there.   
But in the end of the day, I was trying very hard.   I was playing better today.   So I think I prepared myself good for the next couple weeks.  
   
 Q.   Good foundation for those weeks to come?  
MARTIN KAYMER:   Yeah, what I said, I hit more fairways today.   I was very pleased with my short game, so overall, I'm looking forward to playing Qatar and then I play the Phoenix Open.   I've played both tournaments before, so I know the golf courses.   Yeah, it will be nice.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT