DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
December 10, 2020
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. 69 today, first player to break 70.  What was the key to the performance?
MARTIN KAYMER:   I hit a lot of solid iron shots today and I could make a few putts.  Last week when we played the other golf course I struggled a little bit reading the greens, but these are greens I'm more familiar with, so I played solid.  Didn't make many mistakes.  I think that was the key.  I kept it in the fairway most of the time, just hit very solid irons today.  Yeah, so that was it, I guess.
Q. When you talk about the iron play, you are No. 1 strokes gained on the European Tour this year.  We know what you're capable of.  What is it about that part of your game that's allowing you to perform so well?  What have you been working on to get you where you are right now?
MARTIN KAYMER:   My iron game has always been very solid my whole career.  At the moment I'm trying to work out my driving and putting.  It's there, it's good, but it's not good in terms of competing every single week.  I know I'm capable of that because driving was one of my strengths back in the day.  Putting was always so-so.  I've been working with Phil Kenyon quite a lot, just checkups here and there, and it's one of those things, if it clicks, one day you can shoot 6, 7-, 8-under par and then all of a sudden you're in the tournament.  I guess that was the difference recently, that my putting clicked once in a while but not the way I wanted to.
Q. You referenced the driving there.  You're a prolific winner around the world, including two major championships.  Do you ever lean on old footage of yourself when you're looking for some inspiration?
MARTIN KAYMER:   In terms of results, yes, but the swing has changed, has developed.  So once something develops, it's very difficult to compare yourself again.  Sometimes I look at the short game because the short game doesn't really change that much in terms of technique, but my driving and my iron play has changed a lot, especially since I wanted to learn how to draw the ball, so my backswing I take it a lot more shallow back, and back in the day I took it out very steep and I could rely on that fade, that left to right curve all the time.  Footage from the past is important, but sometimes it's difficult to compare.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT