ITALIAN OPEN
June 2, 2018
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. An early dropped shot today but you managed to get things back on track and you walked off with a 68 and still nicely in contention?
MARTIN KAYMER: I played similar to yesterday.  The difference was I didn't make as many putts.  It was tough after a day like yesterday.
Today the bogey on 2, that's a very long hole today.  You hit 3-iron into the green, so that was acceptable.  For me it was more about being very patient and waiting for your chances, continuing hitting fairways, and then in the end I could pick up three shots.
Q. You've seen lot of good scoring on this golf course over three days but we've seen holes with double and triple-bogey.  Is it that kind of golf course, a slight error, you can get into a lot of trouble?
MARTIN KAYMER: I don't think so.  I think obviously there's some water here and there and I had a double-bogey myself the first day, so again, that was on my second hole.  The rest of the golf course, I think you should always get away with a bogey because the greens are still very soft that you can be fairly aggressive with your approach.
Doubles and triples is not necessary.  I've done it myself but you know, it feels bad.
Q. Just two shots off the lead going into the final day.  It's going to take another low round of golf to win this golf tournament, isn't it?
MARTIN KAYMER: It's good.  I played 3-under the first day, 8-under the second, 3-under today.  I think you can figure out what's happening tomorrow.
Q. How nice is it being in contention in a nice Rolex Series Event like The Italian Open?
MARTIN KAYMER: It's a huge event.  Since Rolex became involved, it became even better, the event.  It's not up there with majors or World Golf Championships, but when it comes down to European Tour events, that is the ultimate, especially in our present time right now.  It gives you a lot of World Ranking points, a lot of Ryder Cup points, and obviously in order for myself to get into The Ryder Cup Team, I need a couple wins before The Ryder Cup now that Thomas has me somewhere on his radar.
Just having the chance tomorrow is a very nice feeling.  If it doesn't happen tomorrow, it's okay, but I'm very proud of myself the way I played until now, and I will try to continue that tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT