ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 5, 2012
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Was that hard today?  
MARTIN KAYMER:   Oh, very tired, and especially if you don't make the putts.   
   
 Q.   Is this socially a busy tournament, as well, just the nature of it?  
MARTIN KAYMER:   No, it's really fun.   It's very nice.   I really enjoy it.   Obviously you play with two amateurs together, but I mean, that makes the tournament so nice I think.   It's not disturbing or anything.   It's more fun, especially when I play with my manager and my brother is caddying for him, it's enjoyable.   
   
 Q.   The experience of two days, now it's difficult to reload yourself after this Ryder Cup?   
MARTIN KAYMER:   Yeah, sometimes it's a little difficult to motivate yourself.   I made a fantastic experience on Sunday, and obviously I'm very inspired, I'm very motivated on one hand, but at one stage, you know, your body is just a little tired, and you have to listen to your body at one stage.   And with all of the time changes and the party on Sunday night there, it is what it is.   It's difficult to motivate yourself sometimes.   
   
 Q.   Was the course in a good condition for you today?   
MARTIN KAYMER:   Yeah, it was nice to play.   I played fine.   My drives and my irons, they were solid.   I just couldn't get the ball in the hole.   And when you never make a birdie, it's tough.   I think we got unfortunate today with the wind, as well.   
We couldn't reach any par 5s.   It's probably the easiest of the three where you shoot‑‑ where you are almost disappointed if you shoot 3‑ or 4‑under, because usually you can reach the par 5s.   But today it was‑‑ maybe it was a little frustrating because I had a different experience today.   I can't get there, and if you don't make the putts, then you can't score.   
   
 Q.   So much of the last couple of months has been geared towards getting your game ready for The Ryder Cup, but now, The Ryder Cup has passed, do you feel your game is back to where you want it to be?   Is there still more to go?  
MARTIN KAYMER:   I'm very happy, just need to work a little bit more on my short game because it has not been that sharp over the last couple months, because I practice a lot on the driving range.   But once I get that going, I think I'm ready.   
   
 Q.   What golf do you have left after this week?  
MARTIN KAYMER:   I play Portugal and then I have a week off, then two in China, then another week off, and then play South African Open.   It's a lot of golf.   So I hope I can sleep.   
   
 Q.   Sleeping all right this week?  
MARTIN KAYMER:   Yeah, I slept okay.   You're just mentally tired.   Last week, if you think about what happened on Sunday, I think more and more how much of an influence it will have on my career, and obviously for my person, as well; your personality is changing as well, a little bit.   You get more respect from other people, and then this is quite nice to get approached like this.   It makes you feel good that you have done a lot of things right, and it gives you a lot of confidence.   
   
 Q.   Are you looking forward to St. Andrews tomorrow?  
MARTIN KAYMER:   Oh, yeah, all week.   Obviously Carnoustie and Kingsbarns, it's great to play, but the ultimate is St. Andrews.   I think it's the best golf course in the world; to play there with Johan and my brother again will be very nice.   Hopefully it's like this, no rain.   
   
 Q.   Ollie said he heard from the king of Spain, did you get any communication like that?   
MARTIN KAYMER:   No, I think‑‑ obviously a few athletes were Twittering and e‑mailing me, texting me.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT