ITALIAN OPEN
June 1, 2018
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Vintage Martin Kaymer?
MARTIN KAYMER: Yeah, it has been a while that I played that solid without making a mistake.  I think I was getting very close recently, but that positivity was missing on the golf courses because I haven't had a lot of results recently.  I have been playing well; I just couldn't see a good score.
Today my only goal was just trying to hit fairways.  Because if you hit fairways, you have great chances.  I drove it very well today and then a few putts went in on the last five, six holes, and then one of those rounds, they happen.
Q. Are you surprised with the bunched scoring here?
MARTIN KAYMER: It's a golf course that you can really shoot very low scores but in the end you still need to hit those fairways.  If you don't hit the fairways, it's tricky to make or to create birdie chances.  It's always one of those things, knowing when you play practice rounds, when you play Pro-Ams, you know when you have to shoot 3- or 4-under at least to have a chance on Sunday.
Q. Do you still get excited when you're on top of the leaderboard, everything you've done in golf?
MARTIN KAYMER: Even more now because it has been a while now for me and it doesn't matter if you've won majors and if you had those situations at The Ryder Cups, it doesn't matter.  It's really exciting to be in a position that you can win a golf tournament again.
It's really exciting to see myself playing that solid.  It was just a matter of putting the right mental attitude on to the golf course.  I did very well the last two days.
Q. Up there in front, 36 holes to go.  What's the secret to front-running?
MARTIN KAYMER: To continuing, I know how hard it was -- I was very proud of myself at the U.S. Open the way I played over the weekend.  To get in the lead is one thing but to continue, that's always the tough part.  I did that well in the past, and that's really the key, not to look back; look forward, and continue your aggressive, smart game.
Q. What's come around for you today with a 63?
MARTIN KAYMER: Well, the golf course helps.  It's not that difficult a golf course if you hit the fairways, and exactly that was the key today, I hit a lot of fairways, and I didn't make many mistakes from the tee and in the end I could make a few putts.  I was not expecting an 8-under par.  I played good but 8-under, you know, fortunately this time, I got a couple more out of the round than I thought.
Q. Do you feel that your golf is back to your best at the moment?  It's been a while since you've been up there at the top of the leaderboard.  Do you feel you're hitting as well as ever now?
MARTIN KAYMER: I hit the ball well.  It just the last few weeks, psychological thing that I haven't had a low round in a while.  And if you don't see the good results, even though you played solid, then it gets tricky and the only way to get out is just try to continue and go through it, go through it, always remind yourself what you have done in your career, who you are and that's it.  At the end of the day, my coach always said, "Patience beats talent," and I think recently, I've been very patient.
Q. That was an incredible run of birdies on the back nine coming in, five in a row.  Nice to get that run going and that's really helped elevate you to the top of the leaderboard?
MARTIN KAYMER: My goal was to get maybe 2- or 3-under par standing on the 13th tee box, because knowing you have two reachable par 5s and a short par 4 with 17, I thought I could get myself to 5- or 6-under par and I did that well, putting myself on the tee box and just played the holes very well.  Didn't make mistakes and I could really take care of it.
Q. How much are you looking forward to going into the weekend as the leader of this tournament?
MARTIN KAYMER: I enjoyed all those positions, knowing that you have a chance to win a golf tournament.  I always get really excited thinking about what could happen, how nice it felt in the past when you won a golf tournament.
I get more relaxed being in those positions, and the key to continue that solid play is really trying to look forward and not trying to look back.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT