ABU DHABI HSBC CHAMPIONSHIP
January 19, 2018
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  We just talked to Paul Casey, he's won twice, and we've spoken to him twice and both times he's mentioned you?  
MARTIN KAYMER: It's always nice when you come back to a golf course where you have done well, but also it's the very first tournament of the year.  So it always gave me good motivation.   
I remember Paul when he won here in 2009, I won in 2008 and 2010, and he won in I think 2007 and 2009.  So we had five years of victories.  I think, you know, for both of us, we always drove it very well on the golf course, and once you do that, you always have a good chance to do well here.  I think it was really the key for me the last few years.   
 Q.  Start of the season, as well, bogey-free round today.  We know guys are always talking about bogey-free rounds?  
MARTIN KAYMER: I practised a lot in the wintertime, and it's always difficult to know when the work you've put in, when it will pay off.  Yesterday I drove it okay but not great.  Today I hit a lot of fairways and a lot of good iron shots.  I could have shot three or four shots better today.  My putter was a bit cold at some stage, but overall it was a solid start, and after the break, as you said, I think it was a solid performance so far.   
 Q.  Going back to your winter break, so many guys have different ways of doing it.  What's been the strategy for you over the years and has it changed?  
MARTIN KAYMER: I changed a little bit.  The first five, six years being on Tour, I always went to America and practised there.  But then, you never really spend time with your family and with your friends and that should be the time.  So then I had a couple years after that where I went skiing and I tried skiing for the first time three or four years ago, and it was nice, too.  But I always felt like I had a bad conscience; I should do something, because I've done it many years before.   
The last two winters, I did the same thing again.  I went to America.  It could be a bit of a lonely time.  It's Christmas and then it's also my birthday, New Year's Eve, where you should be with your family, and I've been on my own, which is okay if you have the goals that I have.  You know, it's a Ryder Cup year and I really want to be a part of that.   
So it's okay.  You have to sacrifice a few things in order to do well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT