WGC CADILLAC CHAMPIONSHIP
March 9, 2012
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   A 64 today, after not the best start to yesterday's round, just talk about the difference in the two days for you?  
MARTIN KAYMER:   Well, to be honest it was maybe a little bit easier to play today.   But I hit a lot of fairways, a lot of greens today, and I think the key on that golf course is to hit fairways and then you can create birdie chances.   And I had only 25 putts today, so obviously I was putting fairly well.   And that's why I think I shot a lot better score than yesterday.   
   
 Q.   What was 18 playing today versus yesterday?  
MARTIN KAYMER:   18 was very similar.   Maybe the wind was not as strong as yesterday, but the wind direction was a little bit more into today.   
So it played pretty much the same, the same length.   It's just‑‑ it's a little weird, you're sitting on 18, on the 18th fairway and you feel like you're playing a par 5 and then you go on No. 1 and it's like a par 5 becomes a par 4.   
You know, so it evens out.   
   
 Q.   What happened on 18?   
MARTIN KAYMER:   I missed a tee shot on the right, into the right rough and I gave myself a really good chance for a fairly easy up‑and‑down, and hit it a little bit fat.   Had a seven‑footer for par and unfortunately missed it a little, and so made bogey there.  
   
 Q.   The eagle on 10, I know it was a 45‑footer; what were you trying to do on that hole?   
MARTIN KAYMER:   The pin was short, it's just on the green and I was a little bit short of the green, so it was a quite difficult putt.   To be honest with you, I was just trying to hit it close and make my four, you know.   But fortunately it went in.  
   
 Q.   What's your schedule leading into Augusta?   
MARTIN KAYMER:   I have three weeks off.   
   
 Q.   Is that the same as last year?   
MARTIN KAYMER:   Last year I had three weeks off, too, yeah.   
   
 Q.   Do you like it that way?   Or what seems to be working?   I know you're having trouble‑‑  
MARTIN KAYMER:   So far, it hasn't worked in Augusta (laughing).   But I feel a lot better about my game this year.   I've changed a few things in my swing, and they are working fine.   And I will go a little bit earlier to Augusta, maybe the weekend before, try to get ready that way.  
   
 Q.   There was a lot of attention on you being the No. 1 ranked player in the world going into the Masters last year.   You go in there with a little lower profile this year; do you welcome that or do you think it might help you play better?   
MARTIN KAYMER:   Well, of course, when you are entering a tournament as the No. 1 in the world, you will get more attention straightaway automatic.   
This year will be definitely a bit more relaxed I guess, yeah.  
   
 Q.   Last year you said you thought the course didn't suit you.   What is it about the course that you're struggling with?   
MARTIN KAYMER:   It's just, you know, a few tee shots that it doesn't really suit my eye.   You have those golf courses once in awhile.   
But the great thing is, it's the biggest challenge that I have, and I look really forward to go back to Augusta and try to battle that challenge.   I feel better about my game.   I can shape the ball more these days than last year, so it shouldn't be that much of a problem this year.   
   
 Q.   Also, you said that you might talk to Bernhard Langer about how to play it better; have you talked to him about it since last year?   
MARTIN KAYMER:   No, not yet.   We sat down last year on Saturday and Sunday and we talked a little bit.   We definitely are going to play a practice round together on Tuesday or Wednesday.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT