WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 24, 2012
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You won the No. 1 seeds of the three that advanced this far, and you lost to a very consistent golfer.   How would you assess your round with Matt Kuchar?   
MARTIN KAYMER:   Well, Matt played very consistently.   He didn't make any mistake really, but I made a few today unfortunately.   I didn't really make birdie on the par 5s, besides the second hole.   I actually made bogey on 8.   I had a 6‑ or 7‑footer and 3 putted.   So I made too many mistakes today.  
   
 Q.   Not just mistakes.   It seemed like the bounces weren't going your way and that happens sometimes.   Sometimes certain things happen to benefit you and sometimes it goes against you.   
MARTIN KAYMER:   Well, some days you need a little bit of luck there.   I didn't really think that I was unlucky today.   I hit a lot of good quality golf shots today, especially the first nine.   I didn't miss any golf shots really, but I just couldn't make the putts.   
And then if you 3 putt from such a short distance, you know you are thinking about winning the hole and then you end up losing the hole.   You are not losing only one hole, you kind of like lose two points.   
So it was a tough one today.   Matt, he is a consistent player.   I knew that.   I knew he was going to play good golf without making any mistakes, and unfortunately I made a couple.   
   
 Q.   He ended The Masters last year as the No. 1 player in the world leaving here and you left Augusta playing poorly and missing the cut saying that you needed to learn a draw.   You have two more ‑‑ one more start before Augusta.   How different of a golfer as far as ball flight and overall are you heading into that season?  
MARTIN KAYMER:   I think I'm very different.   I'm definitely more ‑‑ I have a straighter ball flight now.   I have a new 3‑wood and a new driver.   They work perfect for me.   I have a better feel.   I can shape the ball easier.   So I feel like I'm in a different state than last year.   
But I'm in a long process now.   I can see every month it's getting better.   I feel better about my short game, my iron shots, my driving.   I'm on a very good way, I just need to keep practicing hard, and I think it will happen soon that I play good golf.   
   
 Q.   How many more draws ‑‑ how much more comfortable are you with the draws six weeks before The Masters?  
MARTIN KAYMER:   I don't have any problem with the draw anymore.   I'm very happy.   I was working hard on it.   If I have to, I know I can do it.   Obviously the longer the club, the tougher it is.   The 3‑wood and driver is probably a little tougher to draw than the irons.   But they feel more comfortable from month to month, so I'm not worried about Augusta this year.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT