WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 23, 2012
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   David Toms, very good player.   This match came down to those last couple of holes. 
MARTIN KAYMER:   Yeah, he was very difficult to play against.   I mean, I knew he was going to be.   He's a guy that doesn't give up and doesn't really make any mistakes.   I knew I needed to play my best golf.

Q.   He had about, what, three and a half feet to win the hole on 17 and missed?   That's just match play? 
MARTIN KAYMER:   Yeah.   I mean, I had like a 25‑footer, and I thought I had to make it in order to not lose the hole, but then obviously I squared the hole and had a good shot on 18 to finish the deal.

Q.   You have got Matt Kuchar next.   Are you familiar with Matt's game?   Have you played much together? 
MARTIN KAYMER:   Well, I think I played against him at the Ryder Cup; I think I did.   He's obviously a very consistent player, good putter.   In match play I think I have a chance.

Q.   Great win today over David Toms.   As close as you came to winning this championship last year, does it give you extra incentive to come back and win this year? 
MARTIN KAYMER:   Definitely.   I mean, I really enjoy playing match play now.   Today against David it was a really tough match.   I played really good golf and that's the way it needs to be.

Q.   Speaking of match play, you have got a little Ryder Cup history playing against Matt Kuchar.   You get him tomorrow.   What are your thoughts about playing him? 
MARTIN KAYMER:   Well, he's an American as well.   It's been great so far.   It will be nice to play against him.   He's a nice guy; he's always smiling.   I think we'll have a good game tomorrow.

Q.   Thoughts on today's play? 
MARTIN KAYMER:   I mean, I needed my best golf to beat him, especially on the back nine.   I couldn't make as many putts as I did yesterday.   David is one of those people he doesn't let go.   Had a chance to go all square on 18, and I was fortunate I could finish it off.

Q.   How much pressure do you feel playing against a guy like that when everything is on the line?
MARTIN KAYMER:   It's pressure the last four or five holes.   If you are only 1‑up, anything can happen.   You can still lose the match.   You just try to avoid making mistakes, try to avoid ‑‑ or keep hitting good golf shots.   I was hitting a lot of good golf shots the last nine holes.   I think I missed the tee shot on 15, but I couldn't make the putt.   I needed to be patient today and wait for my chance to hit some good golf shots. 

Q.   You said the first two rounds here are the toughest and once you get through that, you can really go deep in this tournament.   Elaborate on that for us. 
MARTIN KAYMER:   I think the first two matches you feel like ‑‑ if you have a high seed, I don't know.   Obviously I was ranked No. 1 in my bracket.   Everybody is expecting me to win; I expect myself to win.   It's very tiring.   Yesterday was a very tiring day. 
Greg Chalmers is a great player.   He's won a couple of times.   He played great golf here yesterday.   Once you win the first two, you are in the tournament.   You are in the rhythm.   It's like playing the first two rounds with enormous rhythm. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT