WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 22, 2012
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Pretty good performance already.   
MARTIN KAYMER:   I played very solid, hit a lot of fairways and didn't miss a lot of greens, hit some key putts early in the round.   And was it on 7 and 8, they were some important putts.   They were like from 10, 12 feet and I made those for birdie.   They kept me up early in the round.   I didn't make a lot of mistakes, so it was tough for him to make some points.   He needed to make some birdies.   The must birdie holes, I made them.  
Overall, it was a very satisfying day.   
   
 Q.   We spoke about that yesterday, didn't we?   It's such a short format.   If you are in control, it's very difficult for the opponents to get into the match, isn't it?   
MARTIN KAYMER:   The thing is if you don't make any mistakes, you know, he has to become a little more aggressive.   That is the way I played, you know, very solid.   Didn't make any mistakes and didn't miss any putts.   So overall it was a good day.  
   
 Q.   I mean, your experience from last year, do you draw on that today?  
MARTIN KAYMER:   Of course.   If you know that you have done well in match play ‑‑ I have done well in Spain last year, as well.   And I finished third.   And so now I really enjoy it.   
Two years ago when I came here, when I played in Spain, I didn't really enjoy match play because I felt like you could shoot a good score and still lose.   But now that you have only one opponent, one enemy if you want to say so, that you have to beat and I really enjoy that battle now.  
   
 Q.   You feel like you ‑‑ it looks like you are becoming more confident?  
MARTIN KAYMER:   Very confident.  
   
 Q.   Not confident, but enjoying it.   
MARTIN KAYMER:   It does make a difference if you stand on the tee and you know the guy you play against, he needs to play his best golf to beat me.   Mentally, I don't think that I ‑‑ that I'm that weak, so he has to have good golf shots to beat me.  
   
 Q.   Looking forward to tomorrow?   
MARTIN KAYMER:   Yeah, a lot.   I don't know who is going to be the opponent I'm going to play against, Rickie or David Toms, one of them.   Both obviously will be tough.   Two Americans, so I don't have a lot of ‑‑ I won't have a lot of friends here tomorrow.   But we'll be fine.   I mean, the crowd is very nice so far.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT