WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 21, 2012
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  SCOTT CROCKETT:   Thanks for coming in and joining us.   Welcome to the Accenture Match Play.   Give us your thoughts.   Obviously a decent run last year.   Very nearly came to pass, but give us your thoughts on being back here. 
MARTIN KAYMER:   Obviously what happened last year, I finished second but a lot more has happened when I became No. 1 in the world.   I come back here with a lot of good memories.   To lose against Luke I think is okay.   It's not too bad.   If you come back to a tournament where you have done well, it's always nice.

Q.   You played nine holes today with Rory.   How is the game, first of all, and how is the course?
A.Actually I played on Friday.   I drove up from Scottsdale Friday afternoon and played 18‑holes.   I played 9 yesterday, 9 this morning and the golf course hasn't changed.   It's the same.   Obviously the greens are very difficult but not really different than last year, to be honest.
SCOTT CROCKETT:   Thoughts on your first round match WITH Greg Chalmers.
MARTIN KAYMER:   I don't know him.   I watched him winning a couple of times last year.   I think it was December when he won back to back‑to‑back in Australia.   I know he's left‑handed, he's a good putter and that's pretty much it. 
SCOTT CROCKETT:   Are you a person that looks ahead, Martin, or are you just taking tomorrow as the main focus or do you tend to look ahead where the drama will unfold.
MARTIN KAYMER:   I don't think that you can really look ahead in match play.   You play final round every day.   My goal is to ‑‑ I think once I win the first two matches, once you won the second match then you are in the tournament.   I think I can go deep.   The first and second day, they are the toughest, I believe.

Q.   So, last year when you came in here you had this aura of invincibility about you.   They were giving you the nickname the "Germanator" and nobody gave a Luke a chance.   That was then and you are still No. 4 in the world, yes? 
MARTIN KAYMER:   Yeah.

Q.   So where are you from back then when you had that aura about you and where you are now about your sense of your game, your sense of yourself, what you have to do to get back at the top, if that's your goal? 
MARTIN KAYMER:   I still think I play good golf, you know.   But overall, I understand the last year has been a little different for myself.   I obviously was No. 1 in the world.   It was not only a big thing for me but Germany as well and German golf.   So a lot has happened and my focus has gotten a little bit away from golf, but then in the middle of the season I could focus back on golf.   I was changing a few things.   I was adjusting a few things.   I feel very good about my game.   It is just a matter of time that it will happen that I have a good long time of good tournaments.   I'm not too concerned.   I still play good golf and I know I need to be on my top form in order to win.   You need to keep working and improving.   That is what at the moment I enjoy the most.   I have a lot of things that I can work on and I see.   I can benefit from it.   It will become better and better every month.

Q.   I know you said you didn't know much about Greg Chalmers, your first round opponent.   But when you found out you were playing Greg, did you Google him?   Did you do anything?   Are you just focused on yourself?
MARTIN KAYMER:   Geoff Ogilvy and me were at dinner yesterday.   I asked him if he knows him.   He said yeah, he is very good in short game, so you should be careful, never give up on anything, or think, okay, that's my hole.   Which you should not do in match play anyways, especially with him.   That's what I heard.   At the end of the day, if I shoot one stroke better than him, I will be fine.   I'm not Googling him or trying to look up things.

Q.   Do you think he is Googling the "Germanator?"
MARTIN KAYMER:   The Germanator?   Where did you get that from? 

Q.   Have you heard that before?
MARTIN KAYMER:   I heard about it from the morning drive.   I know they called me the Germanator.   I think we should look for another nickname.

Q.   No. 6 and No. 12 are a couple of holes that PGATOUR.com is live on this week.   They are both par‑3s.   If you are approaching No. 6, a very difficult hole, obviously, what is your approach or what is your strategy on a par‑3 like 6 and then maybe 12, as well, depending on what's going on with your match?
MARTIN KAYMER:   That is a question that is so open.   It depends on a lot of things.   About the way my match is, what kind of iron I have in my hand, what kind of shot I have to hit.   It really depends on the distance on the golf shot.   I think 6 is one of those holes you have to ‑‑ you have to think about it where you want to pitch the ball, because I mean the practice round yesterday I pitched it maybe a foot from the hole and it ended up off the green.   So you have to think about those things a little bit.   But I mean it depends on a lot of things, how I play the golf shot. 
SCOTT CROCKETT:   Martin, thanks very much as always.   Good luck tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT