OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 9, 2012
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Martin, a good round, a very good round, 4‑under for the last four, particularly the eagle at the last.   How well did you feel you played today?
MARTIN KAYMER:   I think I played very well.   I hit a lot of good golf shots, hit a lot of good iron shots.   I had plenty of chances today, made a couple mistakes on the second holes.   I think the average is probably below par.   Of course I made bogey, and then the three‑putt bogey on 12, but besides that I hit a lot of good golf shots.
I'm ready to go again.   I just want to play more and more.

Q.   You've been saying that your putting's been letting you down.   It's been the only thing stopping you from winning.   You've been practicing on your hotel bedroom carpet.   Did it work today?
MARTIN KAYMER:   Yes.   Today was fine.   I hit a lot of good putts.   Not everything went in, obviously, but I know the reason.   I was aiming a little too far wide once in a while, so I needed to pay attention on the last five, six holes, and as you saw on 18, it worked well.

Q.   I know that you feel this course suits you particularly.   Why is that?
MARTIN KAYMER:   I think the hole setup, I feel very good about the tee shots here, even though you have to draw a few holes, but I hit a lovely drive on the 18th tee box, very nice 3‑wood, nice score there.   So I feel more comfortable with shaping the ball.
The greens are fantastic, so if you hit a good putt, it goes in.   It's a very fair golf course, so if you hit good golf shots, you can make a lot of birdies, and that's what I think I like.

Q.   You've had great success in this Middle East three in the past.   How big a launch pad does that give you for the rest of the season?
MARTIN KAYMER:   It always did a lot, especially last year when I played well in the Accenture Match Play.   It was good.   And then it's always the March and April, those two months I always struggle a little bit in, and that winter I practiced a little bit different.   I kept practicing, so I didn't really have a break, but obviously Qatar last week, that was a good tournament for me to get back into contention, and we will see how high I can finish this week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT