OMEGA MISSION HILLS WORLD CUP
November 27, 2011
Alex Cejka
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How do you think the final round went?   
MARTIN KAYMER:   Well, Alex played fantastic golf today, so that kept us up there.   I didn't have a good day.   He saved a lot of good putts, a lot of good chips.   He played proper golf today and I struggled a little bit.   
But you know, it was a great week.   It was our best result we ever had, finished tied for second.   I think we were not the favourites coming into the week, but we showed again that we are good players, we play well together.   And I look forward to the next few years, because if I would have played a little better today, I think we would have had a good chance to win.  
   
 Q.   Holing out as you did in the halfway stage through the final round, you must have thought, this could be our day.   
ALEX CEJKA:   Of course, we were fighting all the way to the end, you know.   Just one of those days, if we could have one or two more birdies coming in, but this is the way it goes sometimes.   Overall we are very happy with the way we played all four days.  
   
 Q.   If you think about the week and the round that you had to put you into this kind of position on the third day, things have worked nicely and it is a very good performance for the two of you?  
MARTIN KAYMER:   We played solid golf the first two days and yesterday was an exceptional good day.   I was a little frustrated about today because we had good chances and I missed a lot.   16 was a big, big chance for us to put the Americans under pressure.   They would have seen our score on 17 when they walked up to the green, they would have seen we are only one shot behind them.   
You know, what Alex said already, it was a successful week and we are getting better every year.   There's only one more spot to climb up.   
   
 Q.   I've spoken to Alex already about the year that he's had and the situation coming into this event, so it must rubber‑stamp your faith in him and his faith in himself and this partnership to do so well, because you were always going to pick him despite the problems.   
MARTIN KAYMER:   The thing is, the World Cup, of course you want to have the best player next to you, but I think it's a lot about if you get along with the other person.   You need to‑‑ it's not an individual week.   You need to like each other.   You need to get along with each other and we have a lot of experience together the last few years and we played good golf together.   
It's fun with Alex.   Obviously there are not a lot of other Germans in the World Rankings or unfortunately on Tour, but what I said earlier, with two years to go, hopefully I can perform better in the final round.   
   
 Q.   You'll always come back, if you can?   
ALEX CEJKA:   I'll always come back.   It's an honour to play for your country and with a great partner like this.   So if I have a chance, I'll come any time.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT