OMEGA MISSION HILLS WORLD CUP
November 26, 2011
Alex Cejka
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  SARAH GWYNN:   Guys, thanks very much for coming in today.   That was quite some round you put together today.   Just run us through it.   
MARTIN KAYMER:   Yeah, we played very well together.   We made lots of birdies and always on different holes.   We had a slow start on Thursday.   We didn't make any birdies the first six, seven holes and then we started making some birdies and even though we miss some greens, we were always pretty sure that he will make his up‑and‑downs so I could always be fairly aggressive.  
I played very well today.   But obviously you can only play well and be aggressive if you have a partner who is playing very consistent and is always there for you.   
SARAH GWYNN:   And Alex, suddenly you're right in contention now after today.   
ALEX CEJKA:   Yeah, that was our goal, to close the gap a little bit.   We knew we had to go low in that format today.   And as Martin already said, we kind of got lucky that we made birdies on different holes.   You know, I think we played pretty solid and we are looking forward for tomorrow's format.   
   
 Q.   Being so young and you already are ranked so high in the World Ranking, what's the secret for being so good and so young?   
MARTIN KAYMER:   I don't think that I'm that young anymore.   If you see the other guys, McIlroy, Manassero and those guys, I feel like‑‑ I'm not old, but I'm not that young anymore.   
But why I'm so good?   You know, I'm okay.   I'm just practising a lot.   I put a lot into my game.   Obviously you have to do some sacrifices earlier in your career if you want to become really, really good.   
But those sacrifices are not that big for me or not that hard to do, and I just want to look back when I'm done with my career, that I've done everything to become the best I could or the best that I could be, or I could become.   And if it's No. 1 in the world or No. 5 or 10 in the world, but I think it's about giving it your best and putting everything you have into your job, into your hobby and into your passion and your love in what you have.   
   
 Q.   We have spoken to you a few times this year, it has been difficult for you this year, has it, because you've had a lot of trouble with injuries; being in this position, how much does it lift your spirits?   
ALEX CEJKA:   The last couple of months have been tough because I wasn't able to play that much.   But I was preparing pretty solid for this tournament and I knew Martin was in great shape, so if I get my game in kind of good to great, then we have a chance.   
You know, if you are playing this tournament, you really have got to play as good as you can.   I think we both help each other, and you know, I'm ready.   I was a little bit rusty last week I must say, the first tournament again, back out.   But this week, it's almost back to normal and I feel pretty good.   
   
 Q.   It is said that your girlfriend hopes to join the LET; have you given her any advice, or will you once again help her to carry the bag when she attends Q‑School?   
MARTIN KAYMER:   You mean my ex‑girlfriend.   (Laughter).  
Still if she has any questions or anything, I'm always there to help her.   I think I helped her a little bit last year when I caddied for her in Spain.   I think we had a good week together, and I think she learned a lot from that week, and I hope that she will make it this year.   
   
 Q.   Is this your hobby‑‑ your first two rounds, like at HSBC you always follow after the first round, and then out of the three days or four days then you follow after so faster and keep the leading.   Your championship will go tothe first round this year, just only the schedule, and you're planning to that?   
MARTIN KAYMER:   Do you mean if I start slow and then play well on Friday, Saturday?   
   
 Q.   Your days following faster ‑‑  
MARTIN KAYMER:   Is that true?   No, I think a tournament is about you play your first couple of rounds, see where you are at the leaderboard, and then maybe you can put yourself in a good position Saturday in order to win on Sunday.   You are not trying to win the tournament on Thursday or Friday.   It's about giving yourself as many chances as possible to see if you can make those chances, if you can make them in two birdies to get on the leaderboard quickly and then if not, maybe it's not your week.   
But it's about being very patient every week and waiting for your chances and sometimes you know, I don't know if that's the case, if I always start slow, but HSBC, I spent, obviously, yeah, the last day was great, the way I played golf.   
But before that, I put myself in a position, and I think that is what is the most important; not trying to get too greedy or too nervous or if you don't make‑‑ or if you cannot make all of the birdies out there, you will have a lot of chances but you won't make everything.   It's about waiting and being patient and then on Sunday when you have a chance, obviously you have to grab the opportunity, try to win.   
   
 Q.   You had 11 birdies today.   What do you think is the most important birdie out of that 11?   Is it No.17, the chip‑in?   
ALEX CEJKA:   No, I think every birdie is important.   Obviously we had a good run.   The round was pretty good, and that was kind of a bonus because I was short of the green.   It was a pretty tough chip and Martin was on the other plateau on the right, so it was a tough putt.   It was a bonus for us to make birdie from there, but you know, overall, every birdie counts and is important.   
   
 Q.   We know that McIlroy and Lee Westwood will be playing on the PGA Tour next year, both tours.   Are you considering playing on both tours next year?   
MARTIN KAYMER:   I did, for a little bit, but then I saw‑‑ I put both schedules next to each other from the PGA Tour and The European Tour, and I think I have to play 12 tournaments in Europe and 15 in America to fulfill the status, and I think it will be a little bit too much, like travelling, you know, and that's why I decided to stick to the schedule that I had the last two, three years.   
   
 Q.   The likelihood is that you'll be playing tomorrow against Ireland, Rory and Graeme, which is befitting of a World Cup final, world No.2 against world No. 4 and their partners.   What's your feeling on the climax and showdown for a tournament that needs to raise its profile?   
MARTIN KAYMER:   To be honest with you, I was very surprised there are not more people out here, because it's a very good field this year and a lot of great players came over here.   When we played the other Mission Hills golf course, there were a lot of people there and it was fun to play.   Here, I think it's a better golf course.   It's nice for us players.   
For tomorrow, I think it's a good format tomorrow.   You know, you try to score in the best‑ball, try to go as low as possible, and tomorrow is about being consistent.   I think I have a very consistent partner.   He's very straight.   Not the longest (smiling) but very straight.   He's very good around the greens, and that is something what you need I think in that format tomorrow.   
You know, when it comes down to making birdies or saving some shots, because if you miss some greens, I'm obviously more than happy to have Alex next to my side.  
About Rory and Graeme, everybody knows they are world‑class players, but we are not too bad, either.   So we'll see.   It will be definitely interesting finish tomorrow.   It will be nice to be in the last group with them and see who will raise the trophy.   
SARAH GWYNN:   Guys, thanks very much for coming in.   Good luck tomorrow.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT