WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 5, 2011
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. How do you reflect on today? 
 MARTIN KAYMER: Terrible start. If you start off with bogey, second bogey on the third, especially the 2-footer on the third, maybe my concentration was gone for a little bit and I fought back quite well. I birdied 11, 12, 13, 14, so four in a row, which was very nice. Very easy chip on the par 5, I could only make par there. So I think I left a few shots out there, so especially on the back nine, the par 5, there was a chance; 16 was a chance and 18, and I couldn't make any of them. 
 But still, you know, it was a good fight back and I put myself in a good position for the final round. 

 Q. Imagine there were words like oh dear, oh dear, after that putt missed? 
 MARTIN KAYMER: Yeah, especially the other guys started out well with a couple of birdies and all of a sudden I was 2-over par after three holes, and then you wonder, it's moving day, I don't want to move from the wrong direction. And then I kind of like settled back and played really good golf.

 Q. Having been conscious of what the other guys were shooting, you were obviously conscious of what Jacobson was doing ahead? 
 MARTIN KAYMER: Yeah, obviously you don't want to get him too far away from you. The only thing you can try is to make birdies and hope that he doesn't go too crazy on the golf course. But I think he's 16-under par now, which is five shots behind, and if I keep playing the way I played on the back nine, I think I can put a little bit more pressure tomorrow. 

 Q. So you fancy there is a low one in there?
 MARTIN KAYMER: Yeah, the way I played golf is very nice, I'm very happy about it and it's just a bad start today. The second hole, I'm 2-over par for the hole and it's an easy, reachable par 5, so that kind of, yeah, put me back a little bit this week so far. But that's my goal tomorrow, to make birdie on the second and birdie on 16.

 Q. That's unlike you, isn't it, to lose concentration like that?
 MARTIN KAYMER: Yeah, I marked the ball, had a look at the line and then my thoughts were completely somewhere else, and completely missed the hole. It didn't even hit the hole. So it was just -- that happens sometimes. But it wakes you up, as well.

 Q. So I'm sure this is a ridiculous question, but where were those thoughts? 
 MARTIN KAYMER: I don't know. They were not on the golf course. I think, you know, I watched a few DVDs last night, Prison Break, maybe they were there. I don't know. I was just so not concentrated on that putt. It was -- you know, I actually had a good chance for birdie and then you leave the hole with a bogey and think, my goodness, what are you thinking, you have to move to the right direction. But it was a good fight today. 

 Q. So you changed the DVD tonight, won't be Prison Break, it will be something much more positive. 
 MARTIN KAYMER: I'm on the final episode, so I will finish tonight and then I don't have to worry about it anymore. 
 I've played very nice golf the laugh 15 holes, but if I play the same way, then I think we can put Fredrik a little bit under pressure. I don't know how many tournaments he has won already, or how good he really is. I have no idea really. But the way he is playing this week is obviously very impressive and I think that's all we can do to make early birdies and to see if he can continue. Yeah, maybe he reacts a little bit. 

 Q. How do you feel about Chinese players performance? 
 MARTIN KAYMER: Yeah, I think Zhang was up there, after 12 holes, all of a sudden I saw a Chinese flag on the leaderboard and I thought, oh, that's nice for the spectators here. 
 But you can see in general, the golf in Asia is growing and especially here in China, every year there are more people on the golf course, even though without Tiger Woods or Phil Mickelson, so that's nice to see. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT