WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 4, 2011
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Can you reflect on two satisfying days?
 MARTIN KAYMER: Yeah, today was very nice. I didn't make any bogeys today. That was good. I was playing solid. Hit a lot of fairways. I was not so happy with the approaches on the back nine. I think I had a good chance to make birdie on 14 and 16. Was only 70, 80 yards and I couldn't manage to make one birdie, but in general if you make only two bogeys in two rounds, it's good. 

 Q. Sounds like there are some frustrations but you find yourself in a fine position, don't you. 
 MARTIN KAYMER: Yeah, frustration is maybe too much of a hard word but it's a little bit -- obviously a little bit disappointing. I would love to make a couple more birdies today but the way I played, I thought I deserved it.
 There's still room to improve; when you shoot 7-under for two rounds, if you know there's still some room to improve the score, that's a good sign. 

 Q. Shows what's possible around here, quite a few shooting low?
 MARTIN KAYMER: Yeah, I was surprised at the scores. I thought I played decent and I'm still a few shots behind. There are some tough holes, on No. 9, guys hit rescues, 3-wood into the green. So it's not an easy golf course; as long as you hit fairways, then you can make a few birdies. You still have to make the putts, so I'm a little surprised at how got scoring is so far.

 Q. How are conditions? Clearly a lot of rain and humidity, as well. 
 MARTIN KAYMER: I think the heat is fine, no problem. The golf course plays a little bit longer than the previous years because the ball doesn't really run a lot. Obviously it has rained last night again. 
 But in general, it's very playable. I think it's easier than the years before because you can be more aggressive for the approaches, the ball stops fairly quick on the green. But still, it's not an easy golf course.

 Q. Many are saying that the course is actually probably the best that it's ever been in terms of conditioning and the way it's matured?
 MARTIN KAYMER: The greens are lovely. As long as you give yourself chances, the fairways are good. Today we had to play with preferred lies because it was so wet, but the greens, they are very nice, and you can shoot a good score. It's in very good shape, definitely. 

 Q. So what do you fancy for yourself for the weekend? What's needed? 
 MARTIN KAYMER: Play the same way. Try to avoid the bogeys, like today. That would be nice. I played solid. My putting feels good. I had a couple of good saves today for par. So I hope I can continue playing the way I do, because I feel very good about my game. 
 The last few weeks I played good golf and it didn't really happen. This week it feels a little bit better, a little bit more is happening now. If I have a little luck on Saturday and Sunday, I think I can play for the trophy. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT