PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 14, 2011
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. 4-under par how would you assess your play?
 MARTIN KAYMER: It was good, similar than yesterday. I hit again a lot golf tee shots, a lot of good putts. A little bit of a drama going on on the fourth hole, the short par 4. Four shots from 45 yards. That was a little bit disappointing. But overall I'm happy.

 Q. Was that a course management mistake, hitting the driver and getting so close to the green; do you think 3-wood and wedge might have been better?
 MARTIN KAYMER: Usually it's not a big problem from 45 yards, plenty of room to get the ball in front the hole and enough green to work with, but I wanted to be a little bit too cute with that one. I was thinking or talking too much into that shot, I wanted to bounce it in short of the green, let it bounce on to leave it short of the hole. I talked too much into that golf shot.

 Q. What about playing conditions compared to yesterday afternoon? 
 MARTIN KAYMER: There was no wind today so the first 12 holes, it was basically nothing. And the last six holes, a little bit, but I think it makes the golf course almost a little easier if there's a little breeze. If it's the same wind than the first two or three days and since we are here, you've got a lot of par 5s downwind, so I think it makes it even easier.

 Q. Looking fit and trim, but particularly so; are you working particularly hard in the gym? 
 MARTIN KAYMER: No, my fitness coach, he's here and I've done a lot the last two or three months. A little bit more than usually, but it's just so much fun for me and it helps my golf. I think I hit the ball a little bit further. I feel better when I'm standing over the ball and more solid in general. Try to get fitter.

 Q. Fancy your chances of a couple of good scores this weekend? 
 MARTIN KAYMER: I think so. If the golf course plays the same way, then I think you can shoot very, very low. It's about making the putts. If you hit the fairway, or not, it doesn't really matter. 
 The greens are soft even if you come from the rough, you still have, yeah, always room to work with. The greens are very soft and you can be aggressive so I think it's making the putts and I think if I make more of 40-footers like I did today on the 7th hole, then I think I have a chance. 

 Q. 9-under in total today, 4-under after a 5-under of yesterday, what are your feelings in these first two days? 
 MARTIN KAYMER: Well, I'm happy, 9-under par is a good score after two rounds. The golf course plays very easy, so I think level par is not really 72 shots. It's more like 69 shots. So from that point of view, I'm only 3-under par for the tournament on my golf course that I play. 

 Q. So do you feel that you need to improve any area of your game for the next two days? 
 MARTIN KAYMER: No, I think the way I play golf, the way I putt, it's been good. There are a couple of shots that I obviously want to get closer to the hole, especially those 40-, 50-yard shots, I could have made up-and-down twice today, that was a little bit disappointing but in general I'm happy.

 Q. What can we expect for the next two days, the really Martin Kaymer that was No. 1 in the world? 
 MARTIN KAYMER: Well, that's why I'm here, trying to show the Portuguese people that I can play really good golf, and the way I played today and yesterday, it was good but it was not great. Hoping for a great round tomorrow and Sunday. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT