PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 11, 2011
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. 72, what do you think?  
 MARTIN KAYMER: Well, I hit a lot of good golf shots, I thought, especially the back nine. I played very solid. But it's the same as last week, it just doesn't really happen for me at the moment. It's a little frustrating, but the only thing I can do is be patient. That's all I can do. I know it sounds boring, but hey, I feel like I play good golf, but sometimes, you know -- on 12, the par-5, yesterday I had 225 yards to the flag and hit a 6-iron and it went 20 yards behind the green because the wind all of a sudden came up. Then the next hole is into the wind, hit a solid shot, the wind died down behind the green.   
 It's just one of those things where you need to be patient. You hit good golf shots and make bogey, it's tough to accept sometimes.  
  
  Q. You spoke last week in Akron, and you really weren't getting the breaks there, either. It kind of seems to be carrying on a little bit. It's just not quite --  
 MARTIN KAYMER: The only frustrating thing is that this is the last big tournament that we play this year, pretty much the last major. You're the defending champion, you would like to play -- if you make good golf shots, you would like to be rewarded for it, and it just doesn't happen at the moment.  
  
  Q. I know you play your best in every event. Did you feel you were trying even a little harder here because you were defending a major?  
 MARTIN KAYMER: Not at all. I'm very calm. The first few holes I was very calm today. I felt very confident about my game, my short game felt good.   
 It's just a little frustrating if you hit good golf shots and you don't get anything out of it.  
  
  Q. The upside of that is it's going to turn around, isn't it?  
 MARTIN KAYMER: I thought so at one stage. I hope it will happen this week. It's the last big tournament this year, and if happens in two, three weeks, yeah, what can I say? It's not as big as if it would happen here.  
  
  Q. Positive thinking.   
 MARTIN KAYMER: You know, I would never give up. I still have three rounds to go, and obviously 6-, 7-under, that was a very special score today, but as we know, the golf course gets tougher and tougher when it comes down to the weekend. So I just need to keep playing away, keep grinding it out, and it would be fantastic if all the hard work that I've put into the last few weeks, if it pays off the next couple days. It would be nice.  
  
  Q. The heat today, was it a factor?  
 MARTIN KAYMER: It was not that bad. The last two, three days, they were worse. Now today was more like overcast and not that bad. Tomorrow morning I play at 8:00, so I think it should be calmer.  
  
  Q. So you have a good chance to get cooler weather --  
 MARTIN KAYMER: Yeah, at the moment I really feel like I'm in the middle of the tournament. I really want to play. I want to play that golf course and I want to shoot a good score. I know I can do that if I play well. It just should happen.   
  
  Q. You saw 7-under go off this morning. Does that give you a little hope for tomorrow morning, be a little more aggressive and go after it a little bit?  
 MARTIN KAYMER: Well, I could see that you could score well on that golf course. I played with Shaun Micheel. He shot 4-under in the afternoon, which was a fantastic score. I don't know how it was this morning, maybe a little bit easier. But still, 7-under is an unbelievable score on any major golf course. Maybe it will be a little bit easier tomorrow morning, but it doesn't mean that you shoot 7-under. I would be more than happy if I shoot anything under par tomorrow.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT