THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 15, 2011
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Would you just talk about your round today.   
 MARTIN KAYMER: Well, I played very solid. You know, very similar to yesterday. Maybe I missed a few more greens than yesterday, but my putter was very strong. I could save a lot of pars, especially 17 and 18 was quite important to keep me there where I am on the leaderboard, so that was nice. But I am striking the ball well. That's important when it's that windy.  
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 MARTIN KAYMER: Well, you know, I can only talk about myself, and I'm playing good and I'm striking the ball well and my putting feels good. They're all the parts of the game that have to work, so I feel confident. I can only put myself in position on Sunday, and that's all. It's going to be obviously a little more difficult tomorrow and Sunday because of the weather, but if you strike it well, you should be fine. I just hope that my form continues into Sunday.  
  
  Q. And right now you're in that position to allow yourself to have that chance to be there Sunday.   
 MARTIN KAYMER: Yeah, I think the first two rounds, they were fairly good, and I'm happy with that. But if the weather comes in, if the rain comes in and the wind, then it's a battle. Then you need to fight, and then it becomes very difficult to keep that position. But I'm ready for it. I had a week off last week, so I'm prepared for some mental strength out there. I think I should be fine, yeah.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 MARTIN KAYMER: Well, I don't really mind it because everybody has to go through it, and we don't play like this every week, just maybe two or three tournaments where you have to go through it. I kind of like it. You just need to -- you have to really wait for a chance, avoid your big mistakes. You're not going to shoot a 66, but sometimes if you make three, four bogeys on nine holes, it can be good or it can be okay sometimes. It's just a different mental approach.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT