ALSTOM OPEN DE FRANCE
July 3, 2011
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Didn't finish the way you hoped yesterday, seemed it was just a bit erratic, at the start of the round especially?  
 MARTIN KAYMER: I made too many mistakes to win today I think. I made double on 2 and I hit it in the water on 15, so those are three shots. And of course, I mean, on 18 I was trying to make birdie to finish second at least, to chip it in. So it didn't matter if I made bogey or par.   
 But it was more, you know, yeah, the second and third hole, that was difficult. The second hole I made double-bogey and the third I had only a 7-iron to the green and I made 5 there on the par 5. So those two holes there, they should have been different.   
  
  Q. But it started to come really good from the 12th onwards.   
 MARTIN KAYMER: Yeah, I'm very happy about my game. I'm hitting the ball better, which is nice. I'm really looking forward to the British Open now. Every day I'm playing, I'm hitting the ball more solid, and it was important for me that I was fighting back today.   
 It was one of those days where you don't make a lot of birdies, where you just try to, yeah, grind it out somehow. And then I think without the mistakes that I made today, I would have had a fantastic chance of winning here.   
  
  Q. Going back up to No. 3, a bit of a boost?  
 MARTIN KAYMER: As long as it's not No. 1, I don't care. No, it's true, if I'm at No. 3, 4, 5, it doesn't really matter in the end. It might change next again, if Rory plays or some other --  
  
  Q. He's not playing until The Open.   
 MARTIN KAYMER: Well, it doesn't make a difference at all.   
  
  Q. A confidence boost going into The Open?  
 MARTIN KAYMER: I'm looking forward, because, you know, what I said, I'm hitting the ball better. Christian and me, we were talking about it on the golf course and he felt the same way; that every day, I'm playing a little bit better golf, and my short game is good. I just need to be patient and I hope -- I hope it will pay off at the British Open. That would be nice. But if it doesn't happen there, I'm sure it will happen over the next couple of months, that I will win.   
 I feel very good about my game. I just need to keep doing the stuff that I do and be patient. It's tough sometimes, but that's the way it is. And I'm very glad, I finished fourth here now, which is a very good result, and it could have been a lot better, as well, but I'm happy.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT