ALSTOM OPEN DE FRANCE
July 1, 2011
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. How do you feel about that?  
 MARTIN KAYMER: Not too good to be honest. Yesterday was not really my day. Didn't really go my way.   
 The 18th hole today, I hit a tough start, I started birdie, double-bogey, birdie, bogey, but I made enough birdies today. Just a little bit -- a couple too many bogeys, as well.   
  
  Q. So nine birdies you've made in the two rounds, is it just a question of eliminating the bogeys and there are some good scores out there for you?  
 MARTIN KAYMER: Definitely. I think two years ago, I shot 62 on that golf course, so 9-under par, it is possible. I've done it before it's just as important the leaders are not running away from me. It was important for me to put myself today in an okay positive. I just need a good weekend.  
  
  Q. The last few months you have not been as good as you've been the last couple of years. And you've changed your swing a little bit more the Masters, tried to learn to draw the ball. And some people are questioning that, why did he do that; he had such a strong game and predictable fade. Do you question that decision?  
 MARTIN KAYMER: Not at all. If I see some room of improvement, I would like to get there and I'm still playing okay. I'm not playing terrible. I can still win golf tournaments but I just wait for the time when everything comes together again, and when I feel 100 per cent comfortable with the golf ball, and then I can win as many tournaments as I did before.   
  
  Q. Have you reverted to that fade, or are you trying to move it both ways now?   
 MARTIN KAYMER: I'm trying to play the golf course how it's supposed to be played, not only with a fade. Sometimes, of course, when I need the draw, I will try to hit the draw, because I know that I can hit it. I just need to hit it in a tournament under a little bit of pressure and I'm sure one day if everything comes together, I will win more tournaments than in the past.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT