BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 23, 2011
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Fabulous finish, what was the difference to those closing holes than the start?  
 MARTIN KAYMER: The first nine I was thinking too much. I had so many thoughts in my head about my swing. I was practising with my coach yesterday a lot, and I had a lot of swing thoughts in my head. And the back nine I just focussed on a couple of things on my swing and it worked out so much better.   
 I had good distance to the flags as well. I was always a full club. I was never in between clubs and that helped me.  
  
  Q. You know what it takes to win here and you know you need low scores, do you think you're still very much in the hunt here to win this?  
 MARTIN KAYMER: If I play the next 54 holes the way I played the back nine, I think I still have a chance, yeah.  
  
  Q. Great crowds. You must have felt really good support.   
 MARTIN KAYMER: Fantastic. The first nine, 8.00 in the morning, the entire left side of the 10th hole was full of people. In 2008, I won here, had a lot of people, the Germans, and trying to do the same this year. Just trying to get myself in contention. That's all I need to do.  
  
  Q. Do you feel like it's gone up a notch, the level of tension, a Major winner and being world No. 1?  
 MARTIN KAYMER: For sure it's been a little bit more than in the past but honestly I enjoy it a lot. There are so many kids out there and I said to Christian Donald today, I said, "That never really happened before." When I was here in 2003, I can remember my first European Tour tournament, there was pretty much no one out there when I played in the morning.   
 And now, you know, it's nice to see. You can see when I walked up 18, a lot of kids there, and it's nice to be in that position to inspire people. And hopefully, they work at it and they follow my steps a little bit.   
  
  Q. What changed in your mental approach after the first two holes? Did you just try to just switch off completely?   
 MARTIN KAYMER: If you start off with two bogeys, and especially a bogey on a par 5 where you think about, you know, you start out with a bogey and you think, okay, whatever, you have 17 holes left.   
 And then all of a sudden you make another bogey on a par 5 and you think, now you're 2-over, and 2-over on a very easy golf course. I just told myself, just be patient. You have 70 holes left. You have plenty of chances. Just give yourself birdie chances, and all you have to do is just wait for your putts. And if you can make putts, then you can shoot low.   
 And I've done it in the past. I think my best score here was 9-under. So if I can make putts, I can shoot low. That's all I want to do.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT