U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 19, 2011
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Getting a Major so early into your career, getting it under your belt, what does that -- is that important to get that kind of almost -- if you were going to be a multiple major winner, does that --
 MARTIN KAYMER: For me it was an unbelievable boost to know you can win any tournament. And I approached the majors different, too. I just approach them to bring myself in contention on Sunday. And all the other players, they know I've won already. There's somebody out there who has never won. Besides if you lead by ten, they get a little shaky. It gave me a lot of confidence not only in the other Majors but on regular tournaments, as well, and the respect from other players that they increase, as well. But it's more like the confidence that you gain from one of the biggest titles that you can get.

 Q. And in this context, what Rory has done this week is pretty staggering?
 MARTIN KAYMER: I watched a few shots from him the last couple of days. He plays golf fantastic. He hits it so long, the drive. But if you hit fairways -- it's not really a U.S. Open golf course, to be honest. It plays softer. You have birdie chances the first nine. It plays fairly easy. If you hit the fairways, you can go straight at the flags. And the greens, they roll along. Still, 16-under, or wherever he'll finish today, it's very impressive and I'm very happy for him. The way he plays golf, it's a different golf. It's close to perfect. 

 Q. And for you, I mean, it's nice to see a friend do it?
 MARTIN KAYMER: It is great for him to win the event early in his career. He's only 22 years old and especially after what happened at the Masters, you know, all the eyes on him. And to finally to bring it home and to win not only, I would say, the biggest over there, anyway, besides the Masters, but it's the U.S. Open, if you are the champion of the United States, it's quite impressive. And to be the second Irish. I mean, I'm very happy for him and for his family, as well. He has great parents. It's nice to see.

 Q. And five European Tour members now in a row winning Majors, what does that say?
 MARTIN KAYMER: It says, I think, that the Americans struggle a little bit. Since Tiger has been on a, how do you say, a little down.

 Q. A little low?
 MARTIN KAYMER: And since then nothing has really happened. Obviously the World Golf Champion events, I think it was Nick Watney who won this year, we've just become so much stronger. And like I said a few times in the press conference already, I think it started with Padraig, that was the British Open and the PGAs, they gave us at least the belief that we can win here in America, as well. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT