VOLVO WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
May 22, 2011
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. How was the match from your point of view?  
 MARTIN KAYMER: Well, he played like a machine a little bit. Every time he was on the green, he made the putts. I knew it was going to be very difficult to play against him, but I was sort of fine with my game, but I hope that he will win the final, as well, and that I at least lost against the winner.  
  
  Q. You've been working on your game and your swing is getting more stable, and also looking ahead to next week at Wentworth.   
 MARTIN KAYMER: I was playing a little better this afternoon than yesterday morning. I would compare today to yesterday afternoon. My swing feels a little better, but I still have two or three weeks to work on my swing for the U.S. Open and to get ready for the U.S. Open.   
 It was unbelievable, he hits all the fairways, all of the greens and he makes the putts. I think the way I played against him -- it was like a PlayStation, it was unbelievable. But he's playing his own game. I think he made six or seven birdies. And I knew it was going to be difficult, but I thought there's maybe a little bit of a chance but I just didn't see it today.   
 He never really opens the door for you. I won one hole and he missed the fairway there. Besides that, I didn't win any hole. If I made a birdie, he made birdie. It felt a little bit impossible today.  
  
  Q. And with this course, you've played a lot of holes yesterday and you said you were a little drained, it's hard to get going against a guy who is just constantly hitting greens.   
 MARTIN KAYMER: I mean, for are me it was important to stay in there and be patient today and wait for my chances, but there were no chances. So you just have to accept it, that he played better golf, and I'm sure he will have a very good chance to win here.   
  
  Q. You played pretty well at times, but didn't quite get the breaks?  
 MARTIN KAYMER: I played okay. It was not my best day. I think against Luke, you need your best day, especially in match play. I just didn't see any chances today. He never opened the door really. I won one hole, and the way he missed the tee shot -- besides that, when I made a birdie, he made a birdie. For me, it just felt impossible today.   
  
  Q. I know you were behind at the time, but there was run of excellent putts from you, just online, all the time, and then he followed you into the cup, which must be so frustrating.   
 MARTIN KAYMER: It felt like birdies were not enough today.   
  
  Q. You've touched on this, but he's just playing such superb, consistent golf at the moment.   
 MARTIN KAYMER: He's playing unbelievable. He really deserves to win here and become the No. 1 in the world. The way he's playing golf at the moment, hitting fairways, hitting greens and making putts, and it doesn't get better than that.  
  
  Q. And you simply have to regroup because there's a very big one on the horizon next week?  
 MARTIN KAYMER: Yeah, Wentworth is a big, big event. It was always on my list to win it one day. Obviously with my brother on my bag again, it will be fun, too.   
 And I have two, three days now to prepare and to get my swing ready again. My swing feels okay. So I will just hit a few balls on Tuesday and Wednesday.  
  
  Q. What are your thoughts on Wentworth?  
 MARTIN KAYMER: Well, I haven't seen the new changes yet. Last year, the changes were I think -- not all of them were necessary. Of course, they should have changed the greens, what they did, that was a good change, and I'm just excited to see it again.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT