VOLVO WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
May 19, 2011
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Y.E. Yang is surely not a simple player to play against, you were up on the front holes and then down. How was your match today?
 MARTIN KAYMER: I didn't hit a lot of quality golf shots the first nine, ten, 11 holes. But then the last six, seven holes when I was 2-down, I found my swing again and I was trusting all of the yardages, the wind, and so finally I could hit some quality golf shots. 

 Q. How was it having your brother on the bag?
 MARTIN KAYMER: Well, he's not a rookie anymore. He caddied for me four or five years ago in Asia a few times, and obviously today was different because it's match play. It's always fun and I'm sure he's enjoying it. 

 Q. How would you reflect on your first victory here in the Volvo Match Play?
 MARTIN KAYMER: The most important thing was that you win and I did win. The way I won, I was not particularly happy about it, especially the first nine to 11 holes, I didn't play great golf. 
 But the last six or seven holes, whenever I needed it, whenever I was down I was hitting quality golf shots to make some birdies. I had a lot of up-and-downs and that kept me going.

 Q. And all of your experience playing so well in match play over the season?
 MARTIN KAYMER: I think definitely it gave me the confidence that I can do well in match play. I found it really unfair a few years ago, match play, because you play well and can still lose. But now I have accepted it and I have learned a lot about match play at The Ryder Cup, and also in Arizona when I finished second there. 
 Now it's fun. We're all kind of friends out here, but at this stage, it's like you're enemies for four or five hours. But I had my brother on the bag today, and it was fun for him. 

 Q. For many years, Philip was on The Challenge Tour and The European Tour, so why the change from Craig Connelly? 
 MARTIN KAYMER: Well, Craig and me, we had a fantastic year together. We worked exactly one year to go. We won a Major and a Race to Dubai, and he's done a fantastic job. But for me, it was time to change something, time to move on, and that's why I took my brother this week and probably next week, as well. 
 Then hopefully everything works out. I don't know who, but hopefully I will have a professional caddie on my bag at the U.S. Open.

 Q. I have to ask what you think about Finca Cortesin, the course, for match play. 
 MARTIN KAYMER: The area here, I think is fantastic. We are staying in a house with my coach, my trainer and my brother, to have that house -- if I could take that house to Germany, I would take that to Germany. 
 But it's a good golf course for match play, a lot of interesting holes and I think very easy for the spectators. You can see the golf course is kind of built for people so that they can watch us play. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT