THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 12, 2011
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Start with your iron play. It seemed like you were really dialed in and knocking a lot of them close. Were you pleased with that part of your game today?
 MARTIN KAYMER: I was pleased with a lot of parts of my game today. I was driving the ball much better. I was changing drivers. You know, I was playing the R9 last week but now I've got the R11 in the bag, which worked fantastic for me. 
 So I hit a lot of fairways, and then I could finally go for some flags. It was fairly easy in the morning. It was soft. The pins were not too tough, so I just hit a lot of good wedges to the holes, and I could make the putts.

 Q. Was there anybody left to watch you on the back nine as great as you were playing?
 MARTIN KAYMER: Well, 50 percent, I think they were leaving, but it was still fun. I just said early in the interview once you get to 16, 17, there were plenty of people, but it was definitely a difference.

 Q. You said today was the first day that you could kind of feel comfortable with your swing changes? 
 MARTIN KAYMER: A little bit. I'm still working on it, it was just a little bit easier today because I was working a lot the last two, three days on the range. I was hitting a lot of balls trying to get the swing going, and as I said, I used the word changes for my swing, but they are more adjustments. It's just something that I wanted to change anyways, and today it worked out fantastic, and I will keep working on it. Then one day when everything gets together, then I will play very well. 

 Q. Talk about playing in a twosome. 
 MARTIN KAYMER: Yeah, you can chill. You can walk very slow, your routine, you have plenty of time, and you're still waiting. Obviously it would have been nice if we wouldn't play in the heat; that would have been better. But it's always nice to play in a twosome. You don't have to wait; you just play your game. You have time to think about your shots sometimes if you need to. Nobody is rushing you. 
 But on the other hand it would have been nice to play with Tiger another 27 holes. I just played with him once in Dubai for 36 holes, and obviously when he's around it's a little bit different and more people. Usually when you play a threesome or a twosome on the weekends, you know how many people are following you. But with Tiger there are more cameras, more media people inside the ropes, so it would be nice for me, as well, to get used to those things more often. 

 Q. Were you surprised when he stopped? 
 MARTIN KAYMER: I was surprised because I was not expecting it. But I mean, nobody really knows in how much pain he was. Of course we hope that he gets well soon, that he gets out here again. But what I said, it would have been nice to play another 27 with him, and he shot 6-over, but I think -- hopefully he can recover soon so he can play great golf again.

 Q. Did you get a sense at all that something was wrong with him?
 MARTIN KAYMER: Did I notice anything? 

 Q. Yeah. 
 MARTIN KAYMER: Yeah, he was walking really slowly. He was walking behind us. But I didn't know that it was because of pain or -- I just thought that he walks a little slower than me. I didn't really know in how much pain he was. I don't know what he told you guys after the round, but for us, I was focusing on my game. I was not really paying too much attention. 

 Q. Is this the third time you've played here? 
 MARTIN KAYMER: Yeah, I think it's the fourth year. 

 Q. Do you like this track? It's kind of tactical, you've got to do more thinking than some places?
 MARTIN KAYMER: Yeah, I enjoy the golf course. It becomes so much tougher at the weekends. Especially this year, you have to hit fairways, you have to hit a lot of fairways because the rough gets a little thicker. But what I said earlier, with my new driver I hit a lot of fairways today, and then you can score. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT