MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 7, 2011
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q. How was it out there? Just kind of tough day for you out there. 
 MARTIN KAYMER: For me it was very difficult. Every day that I played here was a tough day so far. So, yeah, it was -- I was disappointed, because there's some golf courses that suit you and some they just don't. 

 Q. Is there any particular part of your game that you were struggling with more here?
 MARTIN KAYMER: I was trying to hit good golf shots today and not playing very well. My putting was okay, I think my short game was definitely better than the last three, four, years, but I just didn't hit the ball as good as the last two or three years ago. 

 Q. Is this course sort of one that has gotten in your head at all a little bit?
 MARTIN KAYMER: Obviously it's frustrating if you never play well. So I think that it's normal, it doesn't matter what kind of course that it is. It's just a shame that -- it's obviously a huge tournament here and if it doesn't really suit your eye and you know that quite well, it's a little frustrating, yeah.

 Q. Were you able to use that draw at all today?
 MARTIN KAYMER: I was trying. It didn't really work out. 

 Q. Talk about the 10th hole. 
 MARTIN KAYMER: I over hooked it a little bit and it took a terrible bounce, was way left in the trees. I was able to hit it out of there, but I couldn't reach the green with my third shot. I mean, fortunately, I could maybe get up-and-down from the bunker for double bogey. I don't know what my score is on that hole, but it's definitely not very good. 

 Q. So what are your thoughts for going into tomorrow? Just any new game plan or?
 MARTIN KAYMER: No, there's not really a game plan. I think that I don't really know how to play the golf course. I don't know, I can think about another hour or hour and a half or two hours, and I just don't really find a solution. 
 I think that maybe I got to sit down with Bernhard Langer later and ask him, you know, he won here twice and I think I can only, I think that I can only get good advice from him.

 Q. You tried everything, Martin, you took two weeks off leading into this and you tried different things. 
 MARTIN KAYMER: Yeah, I need to try something different again. I don't know what I have to do here. Maybe one day it will work out. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT