WGC CADILLAC CHAMPIONSHIP
March 11, 2011
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MARTIN KAYMER: Well, the golf course, yesterday it was a scoring day. There were a lot of birdie chances out there. Today you have to keep it together to make pars. You'll still have chances at birdies but you're not really thinking about making too many birdies; just avoiding bogeys.

 Q. What did it feel like to play a round as the No. 1 player in the world ?
 MARTIN KAYMER: Very nice. I got a lot of comments on the golf course, "We're here for you No. 1" and those things. It's a very proud feeling. I never really felt that before, and now when you hear that from other people, you appreciate it more and more. 

 Q. Good start to the week, you seemed to make it look very easy the first four or five holes?
 MARTIN KAYMER: Well, yesterday was fairly easy to play. You saw the scores and a bunch of players were 4- or 5-under par. 
 Yeah, I really used my chances the first time. I had a great start and the end of the round today, was more difficult but I kept it together.

 Q. Do you think the strategy will change much today with this wind blowing out of the normal or do you pretty much just try to keep hitting fairways and attacking like you did yesterday? 
 MARTIN KAYMER: Well, I mean, it's a totally different golf course today. I think if you shoot level par today, it's a fantastic score. I think since yesterday morning, it's at least four or five shots' difference. 

 Q. No. 1,2 and 3 and really an historic week for European golf; what was it like? 
 MARTIN KAYMER: It was cool, to have three Europeans there, I think George O'Grady can be very happy. It was a good start for us, we played good golf yesterday and today was more difficult but we did well.

 Q. What did you think this morning when you saw this wind? 
 MARTIN KAYMER: Yeah, at 6 o'clock this morning, it was so windy already. You are expecting those kind of wind in the afternoon. For me it was important to keep my score together and not really thinking about making birdies. I just didn't see many. Fortunately I could make another birdie to be 6-under par. 

 Q. How much importance do you attach to a good start on occasions like this?
 MARTIN KAYMER: Yesterday was great. My first round as the No. 1 in the world and started with three birdies; that give me the boost and confidence for the last 15 holes. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT