OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 10, 2011
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Satisfied with that?   
 MARTIN KAYMER: Yeah, it was okay. I played very good golf today. I hit a lot of good shots, and had a little bit unfortunate on the when I wit the grandstands and it went all the way back in the water.   
  
  Q. What about the buzz, the experience? We've just seen it, you coming off the 18th green and thousands of people around.   
 MARTIN KAYMER: I really enjoyed playing with them. It was very nice. I never played with Tiger before. It was nice. He was very nice to me. We talked a little about playing in America, playing here in Europe, especially here in Dubai. I look forward to it tomorrow again.  
  
  Q. He also showed the way did he on the last, for him, that's a big momentum boost, the eagle on the last?  
 MARTIN KAYMER: Well, Lee and me, I think we were expecting it, that it will happen once a day that he makes those great golf shots. He hit a perfect tee shot and a perfect second obviously. It's interesting, he didn't play very good golf today. He missed a lot of shots, but he always managed to hang in there and in the end, he finished under par. It's impressive and that's why I think he's always up there.   
  
  Q. In terms of your golf and your position overall, really nice first round, because Rory McIlroy went out this morning, had a chance to post a decent number but you're nicely in touch there.   
 MARTIN KAYMER: Yeah, he played good golf to shoot 7-under. People might say he had less wind and it was easier, but still, to shoot 65, that's not easy. I just look forward to going out tomorrow and be in the same position as Rory this morning. Hopefully it doesn't rain that I heard, raining a little bit, but maybe we can get lucky and we can play a similar round.   
  
  Q. I never it like to throw out negatives, but you mentioned the 9th, that is such a rarity, I imagine you were surprised, weren't you?   
 MARTIN KAYMER: Yeah, I was surprised, I was hitting it a bit off-line but it was not that bad. It was a pure hit, actually. I was surprised how long it went, and hit the grandstand and went all the way in the water. It's just a little unlucky.   
  
  Q. Not something you'd laugh at at the time?  
 MARTIN KAYMER: Yeah, at that stage, you're not laughing. You think, shoot. But the most important thing, was I still had five holes to go and I know I had three are par 5s, and one reachable par 4. I thought if I can make a couple more to get back to 3-under where I was before, then it would have been okay.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT