COMMERCIALBANK QATAR MASTERS PRESENTED BY DOLPHIN ENERGY
February 4, 2011
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. No birdies yesterday but no bogeys today. What was the difference?   
 MARTIN KAYMER: Well, I was playing a little bit better. I was hitting a lot of greens today, since yesterday. I didn't hole a lot of putts, but today, the two birdies I made was a 2-putt on 16 and I hit it to a foot, that was the other birdie on the third hole.   
 So I just struggled with the putting. But I was hitting the ball a little better today.  
  
  Q. Are you starting to feel more comfortable on this golf course, because I know you've said in years gone by, it's not suited your eye.   
 MARTIN KAYMER: Not really, to be honest. I really struggled here. I don't know why. I play good golf but I can't score.  
  
  Q. So it was good golf this week, you showed a fighting spirit on the course but has there been a difference in your game between Abu Dhabi and this week?  
 MARTIN KAYMER: In Abu Dhabi, I feel like home. When I'm standing on the tee box, I really know what I have to do. I feel comfortable once I can get on the green, and I know that I have a good chance to make that birdie because I can read the greens very well. My stroke is good there. The greens there are fantastic.  
 These are really different. I struggle to read the greens a lot.  
  
  Q. You're on the cut mark, plus three, looks as though it's most certainly in for tomorrow and Sunday. Can you now focus your attention on winning and charging the leaderboard over the next couple of days?   
 MARTIN KAYMER: The thing is that that golf tournament here is tight and no one is really running away, and I'm only seven shots away now. And I heard the weather is going to be good tomorrow, so I will play more aggressive tomorrow in order to make a few more birdies to give myself more chances; or let's say chances that are doable, and we'll see if I have a chance on Sunday.  
  
  Q. There are a couple of agendas for you this week. Whether you like to talk about it or not, the public like to look at the World Rankings and you have a chance to become No. 1, but also win this golf tournament; which is your priority and does the other one creep in at all?  
 MARTIN KAYMER: Definitely to win the golf tournament. I'm a little bit away now, but obviously if I have a good weekend, I might have a chance. But No. 1 in the world, yes, I get that question a lot.   
 What I said in the press conference already; I can tell you, yes, it's my goal but it's not my honest answer, because it is not my goal at the moment. I'm here to win the golf tournament, and if I take care of winning, then it will happen automatically.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT