COMMERCIALBANK QATAR MASTERS PRESENTED BY DOLPHIN ENERGY
February 2, 2011
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   STEVE TODD: Martin, thanks for joining us, congratulations on your victory in Abu Dhabi a couple of weeks ago, nice to come here as world No. 2. How does it feel coming into an event with that status.
 MARTIN KAYMER: You know to be honest, it doesn't really change anything. My goal is what I say in many press conferences before. My goal is not to become the No. 1 in the world right now. For me it's just important to play tournaments, to play as good as I can those tournaments, winning those tournaments, and then you know, if I take care of that, then yes, I will become No. 1, one day. 
 But at the moment, I'm not focusing on my World Rankings. I know I'm in the Top-10. And that's important to me. But it's what I said, it's just playing tournaments as good as I can. 
 STEVE TODD: In terms of the tournaments, having world No. 1 and No. 2 first time two Europeans have been in that position in a regular Tour event since 1993; it's great for European golf and also the Commercialbank Qatar Masters.
 MARTIN KAYMER: It's nice for England and German players, too. It was Faldo and Langer I think 18 years ago. But European golf, not only The Ryder Cup showed it, but the last couple of years has showed how strong we are. Rory, he won in America last year, Graeme winning the U.S. Open; those things they show that we are on the right track and The European Tour doesn't have to hide anymore. Of course the PGA TOUR has strong players and they are powerful market obviously in America, but I think the performance that we showed the last, yeah, I'd say five years pretty much has been very impressive I think. 
 STEVE TODD: The battle between Faldo and Langer, it was Faldo who won on that occasion but with your record in the last sort of eight or nine appearances, you must be confident of doing well again this week.
 MARTIN KAYMER: Well, I was never very successful in Qatar the last three or four years. In 2008, that was my first tournament that I won in Abu Dhabi, came here and I barely hit a golf club, because I was so tired from the week before. And 2009, 2010 was okay, but I haven't finished in the Top-10 I think, so it will be nice to achieve that this week. 

 Q. When you talk about that strength and you say you don't like to think about the rankings and let them take care of themselves, it must give you inner strength, doesn't it, to feel that what you are achieving --
 MARTIN KAYMER: Well, I know that I have the possibility and the skills that I can do it, of course. Otherwise, I wouldn't be No. 2. And the way I played golf the last two years showed me that I can do it. 
 But I just don't want to put myself under pressure, and that's truly my honest belief and my opinion. It is not my goal at the moment. It will be my goal one day but at the moment, I wouldn't saying that I wouldn't mean. For me, it's just at the moment, I really enjoy just being here, play golf tournaments everywhere in the world and knowing that every tournament I play, I have a chance to win. 
 And that is just at the moment my goal and the way I feel. Yes, I can tell you now that, yes, my goal is to be the No. 1 in the world; but it's not true. I won't tell you something the way I don't feel. 

 Q. But if you got it, how would you react? 
 MARTIN KAYMER: Honestly, it wouldn't change. Probably have to do a bit more media, more interviews. 

 Q. Keep your manager busy. He always wears a suit; I think he's going for job interviews. 
 MARTIN KAYMER: He always looks like a model I think. (Laughter).
 It would make me proud to be No. 1, because yes, you can say what Lee can say nowadays, no one in the world, no one is better than you. And not a lot of people can say that about themselves. Of course it would be a proud moment, but that is not my -- the biggest goal that I have in my career. I don't know really what is the biggest goal of my career. 
 At the moment, I just play and enjoy. I just want to win as many tournaments, I want to win Majors, and it would be nice to become one of the guys who gets to the Hall of Fame one day. You know, those things. But it's been a long process. It's a career, and I'm not really thinking about the No. 1 right now.

 Q. You've got 15 year, haven't you, maybe more?
 MARTIN KAYMER: Well, I think I have more. I hope; Bernhard Langer is still winning Majors. Well, I hope I still have 25 years. 
 Am I looking that old? (Laughter).

 Q. 51?
 MARTIN KAYMER: He's 52. I'm 26. 25, 26 years again would be nice.

 Q. In the first days last wreak when we went to Bahrain, everybody was still talking about how impressed how you won in Abu Dhabi, I know you were pretty busy, but were you impressed with the way you won in Abu Dhabi and that you won by so many shots?
 MARTIN KAYMER: I was surprised. I was not impressed by myself, but I was surprised. Like what I said earlier, I didn't prepare as I did the last few years and I was relaxing and doing stuff that has nothing to do with golf during wintertime but maybe that's the reason why I played well. I was very motivated to play again and play tournaments. 
 And obviously if you come to a golf course that you really like and that you have good experience before, I just know that on the golf course, the golf course is always very nice to me. We get along very well. I feel very safe on that golf course. 
 STEVE TODD: Thanks a lot for joining us. Best of luck this week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT