ABU DHABI HSBC GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 20, 2011
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. So many good rounds of golf on this particular golf course, how good was that one?
 MARTIN KAYMER: It was good, 5-under par is a fantastic start in the season. I think I put myself in a good position already. I don't have to worry about the cut. That's a good thing. No, I played fantastic golf. My putting was very good. The shots that I hit towards the green, they were a little bit more precise than I was expecting to be honest. But I was happy. 

 Q. Was there a shank in there?
 MARTIN KAYMER: There was a big shank, on the third hole I was in the bunker and it was not a great lie. If you are up there in the world, you should be able to hit that golf shot and I totally shanked it in the water. 

 Q. You started first, second, first here in the last three years beginning your season, what's the secret to getting off to such a fast start?
 MARTIN KAYMER: I think I practise a lot in the wintertime. This winter I didn't prepare as I did the last three years because the weather in Phoenix was not as good, and I was in New York and got snowed in there. 
 I just really like the golf course. It really suits my eye, every single hole I'm standing on the tee box I know what kind of shot I have to hit. I know when the pin is in the back and front where I have to lay it up. I think I just have a very good strategy for that golf course. 

 Q. Just coming out of the off-season, first tournament of the year, first round, competitive rounds, how was the wintertime for you and how do you feel now? 
 MARTIN KAYMER: It was a good wintertime. I did a lot of stuff that I always wanted to do off the golf course. I went to New York in the wintertime for Christmas. I saw the big tree at Rockefeller Center and those things. I went to some hockey games. In the last ten, 15 days I practised a little bit to get ready for the tournament here. Yeah, first round worked out fine.

 Q. Obviously 5-under par for the opening round, defending champion, how pleased are you with your game? 
 MARTIN KAYMER: I was happy about my ball-striking today. I was really surprised about my putting. It was very good. I really like the greens here. For me, it's easy to read the greens and I was stroking the ball well. I hit a lot of fairways today so that gave me the chance and the opportunity to go for some flags. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT