DUBAI WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY DP WORLD
November 28, 2010
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  Fourth Round 72. 6-Under. 282 Total.  
  
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: Martin, many, many congratulations, Race to Dubai winner, Europe's No. 1, how are you feeling right now.  
 MARTIN KAYMER: Very proud. Very satisfied with my year, and that round today, my goal was obviously to play as good as possible, to putt 100 per cent in there. And that is what I certainly did. It was not my best round of the week but I really enjoyed that week and I really enjoyed the last round that I played.   
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: Did you get a chance to sort of savour the moment as you walked up the 18th, realising you were Europe's No. 1?   
 MARTIN KAYMER: Yeah, the announcer when he was saying all of the scores, the PGA Champion, currently No. 1 in The Race to Dubai, it sounds pretty good to me. And what I said, it's a very proud moment.   
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: And not a bad year overall?   
 MARTIN KAYMER: It's been a fantastic year I think. All of the goals that I set for myself, for my career, everything happened this year. To win The Race to Dubai, No. 1, and to play The Ryder Cup, and to win a Major.   
 So, we'll see what happens next year.   
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: Hard to follow I think.  
 MARTIN KAYMER: It's a tough one.   
  
  Q. Was it really difficult to get your intensity level up today, considering you almost won The Race to Dubai before you started?   
 MARTIN KAYMER: I mean, I couldn't lose anything. I was just playing for results today, just playing to finish as high as possible, and it was not difficult at all, no. I just really enjoyed the day.   
  
  Q. Just looking forward to next year and what kind of goals are you looking at, do you have any specific goals already?  
 MARTIN KAYMER: Yeah, I said in the interviews before already that I would like to prove that I'm Europe's No. 1, take that challenge on again; to win The Race to Dubai. It would be nice to win a Major again, preferably the British Open, our only major that we have in Europe. And I never made a hole-in-one in my life. (Laughter).  
  
  Q. Never?   
 MARTIN KAYMER: No, never, ever. So that would be nice in 2011.   
  
  Q. World No. 1?  
 MARTIN KAYMER: Well, it is one of my goals. I'm sure it will be one of my goals one day. But I had a lot of things to think about this year, especially after the PGA Championship. So to be honest with you, the No. 1 in the world is still too far away to realise for me; that I could become the No. 1 in the world. Obviously I tried to play as good as possible every week, and if it happens, it happens. But if it doesn't happen, I'm sure, and, well, I hope, that I will have the chance in a few years again.   
  
  Q. Did you think you would achieve this point in your career a few years ago, and if you didn't think you would achieve it at this age, at what age did you think you would win Majors and world No. 1?  
 MARTIN KAYMER: Well, I would feel that I have the potential to become one of the best players in the world, yes. But I think no one would have thought that I could make it this quick, that fast. So, yes, I knew that I can do all of those things; that I can win Majors and that I can become the No. 1 in Europe. And we will see. Maybe one day I believe that I can become the No. 1 in the world, too.   
 I know that I can do it. But you know, I think it will take a while to really know that you can do it.   
  
  Q. Did you get any SMSs or congratulation messages before or any kind of advice from Bernhard Langer or Nick Faldo?  
 MARTIN KAYMER: No. I haven't heard anything. (Laughter).  
 You never know what will happen on the last day. Graeme, he made a good score today. I mean, I went into the last day just to enjoy it and I didn't get any text messages before, no.   
  
  Q. Were you actually looking at the leaderboard in case?   
 MARTIN KAYMER: Well, I did after nine holes, but I didn't see him after nine holes, so I thought, should be okay. I should be fine. And I was in an okay position at that stage, too. You know, I was I think 7-under after ten holes, and I thought if I have a good back nine, I might go up there in the top 5, top three. So I didn't really think about it.   
  
  Q. Looking ahead, Abu Dhabi is also a pretty big tournament for you; and what are your plans for the rest of The Desert Swing, because Graeme was saying he'll play Abu Dhabi and maybe not the rest?  
 MARTIN KAYMER: I mean, you have to let me finish the season first to think about next year. I can't answer that question. Of course, my goal is every week to win. Otherwise I wouldn't play the tournament.   
 But first of all, I need to realise what happened this year. Next year is 2011 and I told you, my goals, what kind of goals I have. And, yeah, we'll see what happens in The Desert Swing again.  
  
  Q. How will you celebrate? Are you a beer guy or champagne guy or both?  
 MARTIN KAYMER: We will see what my family will bring out.   
  
  Q. Buy yourself anything special or promise yourself anything?   
 MARTIN KAYMER: Probably something. I'll let you know in Abu Dhabi.   
  
  Q. Just looking at your game, what are you happy to keep the same level, what do you think you need to improve on?  
 MARTIN KAYMER: I think you can always get better in short game. Especially the last few weeks, I should have been better in putting. But my long game has been very consistent all year, so that is what I try to work on in the winter, as well, to keep that level. But I will work a little more on my short game.   
 So those are things that I have to do in the next six, seven weeks.   
  
  Q. In Arizona?   
 MARTIN KAYMER: In Arizona.   
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: Martin, many congratulations again, Race to Dubai, Europe's No. 1. Well done.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT