DUBAI WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY DP WORLD
November 27, 2010
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  Third Round 73. 6-Under. 210 Total.  
   
  Q. That was an extremely up-and-down day, six birdies, bogeys, double-bogeys, what was going on out there for you today?  
 MARTIN KAYMER: Oh, it was not a very good day. It was a lot of times in-between clubs today, so I had to play a little bit defensive and obviously when you cannot really hit the shot that you want to hit, once in awhile you miss it, as well. And then I had good numbers, so I could go for the flags and make the birdies.   
 It was a weird day and obviously a very disappointing finish.  
  
  Q. Obviously The Race to Dubai looks as though you have got that wrapped up now. Do you have to banish that from your thoughts and get in the mind-set of, oh, I have to win this championship?  
 MARTIN KAYMER: I am six behind now. That was a huge mistake on 18. I think it put me in a position where I cannot really win the tournament anymore, and Ian is playing fantastic the last few weeks.  
 Yes, it looks that I have won The Race to Dubai, which is nice, but I want to play well here. I want to finish as high as possible.  
  
  Q. Does the fact that you've won The Race to Dubai -- just go for everything tomorrow and just try and shoot a really low number and potentially put Ian under pressure?  
 MARTIN KAYMER: Of course, if I have good numbers then I will go for everything. I cannot really lose anything. I can only win. Hopefully I can get up there and chase him a little bit. If I have a fast start tomorrow, because I'm playing well, my putting is well; just today and yesterday, I just didn't have really a lot of chances.   
  
  Q. How was it playing?  
 MARTIN KAYMER: It was a little bit more difficult than the last couple of days. But my problem today was there was a lot of times I was in-between clubs, between 8 and 9, I never really had a good number and when I had a good number, I could go for it and make birdie.   
 I made six birdies today, so that showed that I'm playing well, but just didn't really have the right numbers today. And obviously a little bit disappointing on 18 to finish with a double-bogey.  
  
  Q. Looking at the final round, are you going to stick to your strategy of hitting greens and fairways or are you going to try to attack a little?  
 MARTIN KAYMER: Of course, I will play as aggressive as possible. I cannot lose anything. It looks that I have won The Race to Dubai, which was my goal coming to this week, so I cannot lose anything, so I will go for everything.   
  
  Q. Topsy-turvy sort of day. What's your assessment of what happened today?   
 MARTIN KAYMER: It was a very frustrating finish, very disappointing. I thought if I could finish with a birdie I might have a chance tomorrow. But yeah, I kind of like kicked myself out of it I think.   
 Tomorrow I will play as aggressive as possible and I cannot lose anything, and that's the goal.  
  
  Q. I suppose the consolation is that it looks almost certain now that you will have won The Race to Dubai?  
 MARTIN KAYMER: It was nice. That was the goal going into this week, to secure the No. 1 in Europe. It's nice to know that I have a good chance tomorrow to lift the trophy.   
 But I will t would be more satisfying if I shoot a low round tomorrow. If I shoot something between 66 and 63, I think it's possible. I just have to -- just need to give myself more chances. I was a lot of times in-between clubs today, so that was the only problem.  
  
  Q. Can you give an idea to people listening who perhaps are not complete golf afficianados, what it means to win something like The Race to Dubai for you.   
 MARTIN KAYMER: Of course, as the name says, the No. 1 in you're own. I think that there were not a lot of players who after being No. 1 in Europe were after a few years, legends. Ballesteros won a few times and Colin Montgomerie; just to be on one page and to be compared with them is the biggest honour you can get.  
  
  Q. It caps a dream year, doesn't it?  
 MARTIN KAYMER: Yeah, this year has been by far my best year. I always dreamt about it but I never really know or I didn't realise that this is possible to do. I played The Ryder Cup. We won The Ryder Cup. We won a Major, won in St. Andrews this year. Looks like that I will win The Race to Dubai. If you have any other thoughts, I'd take it but I think there's not a lot left.  
  
  Q. I suppose the only other thing left is to go to the top of the World Rankings. So will you be looking at Lee Westwood and his performances tomorrow as you kind of go for it?   
 MARTIN KAYMER: Well, yes, I will play as aggressive as possible tomorrow. I played well, my putting is good, so I can shoot a low score. I just need, what I said, low numbers. I mean, he's playing fantastic golf, so the No. 1 in the world is not really a consideration. But if I play well and finish in the top 5 or top three, maybe I can become the No. 2 in the world.   
  
  Q. Do you even know what you have to do to get to No. 1 in the moment?  
 MARTIN KAYMER: I just looked this morning, top seven or top six should be enough.  
  
  Q. World No. 1. Do you know?   
 MARTIN KAYMER: I think I have to win.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT