DUBAI WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY DP WORLD
November 26, 2010
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  Second Round 70. 7-Under. 137

 Q. You started this round two shots behind the leader and you're still two shots behind the leader. How do you feel about your day?
 MARTIN KAYMER: Nothing really has changed. I didn't play as good as yesterday. I missed a few greens, especially on the first nine, and I had a 3-putt today. 
 So it was still okay. I'm hitting the ball well. I just need to make a couple more putts. That would be nice to get my round going. 

 Q. You said yesterday you felt a bit of extra pressure because of the circumstances. How was it today without Graeme alongside you? 
 MARTIN KAYMER: Today felt like a normal second round to be honest. I just tried to put myself in a good position Sunday that I can win the tournament. 

 Q. Graeme's score, obviously relevant to you, did you have a look as soon as you came in the hut? 
 MARTIN KAYMER: No, I don't know. 

 Q. Graeme is lying 42nd at 1-over par. Yesterday you said it's not over. How do you feel about that today? 
 MARTIN KAYMER: What is he, plus one now? So he's ten behind. It will be tough to win for him. 

 Q. What about this golf course? Why are we seeing the creme come to the top, all of the top names in European golf, with the exception of Graeme are up there. 
 MARTIN KAYMER: It's funny, I was looking at the leaderboard, only Ryder Cup players up there. 
 You have to strike the ball very well. You have to place the ball on the greens to give you good birdie chances. You need a lot of strategy on the golf course, and I think the guys who are experienced, who played The Ryder Cup a few times, they know really well how to play that golf course.
 2-under par is an okay score and still two behind. Would have been nice to pick up one or two more shots going into Saturday, but it's only half-time now so we still have 36 holes to go.

 Q. Everything under par is obviously a good result. On the front nine you had some up-and-downs, what was going on there? Did it have something to do with your rhythm? 
 MARTIN KAYMER: I didn't really hit a lot of greens. I struggled a little bit to save pars. I made a 3-putt on the par 3, but fortunately I could birdie the par 5s so, that put me in an awkward position after nine holes. 
 On the back nine, I didn't really give myself a lot of chances for birdies, so that's why 2-under par is an okay score. 

 Q. How are you feeling about today's round? 
 MARTIN KAYMER: It was okay. I didn't play as good as yesterday, but 2-under par is an okay score. Would have been nice if I could have picked up one or two more shots but it's only half-time. So we have 36 holes to go and I can still win.

 Q. And the reason why it is only okay today?
 MARTIN KAYMER: Well, 2-under par, didn't get me anywhere. That's why it's only okay.

 Q. Your standard of play, why did you not live up to the expectations of the first day?
 MARTIN KAYMER: I played good golf. I didn't really have a lot of birdie chances today. That was the problem. I had more chances yesterday. I couldn't really take advantage of it, especially the last five or six holes, but today, I just didn't really have the chances. That's why 2-under is an okay score. 

 Q. Looking at the leaderboards, decent position?
 MARTIN KAYMER: Yeah, of course. It's an interesting leaderboard. Only Ryder Cup players up there; the No. 1 in the world is up there. So you can see that the standard of The European Tour is pretty high these days. 

 Q. Only name that is missing, that of Graeme McDowell, a long way behind you. 
 MARTIN KAYMER: I heard that.

 Q. And your thoughts on it? 
 MARTIN KAYMER: Well, you know, of course, you don't like to see somebody playing bad. I mean, my priority is to win the golf tournament, and if I win here, then nobody can catch me. That's my goal.

 Q. Does it make it that little bit easier? 
 MARTIN KAYMER: Sure, it makes it a little bit easier. If he would be leading the tournament, there would be more pressure. Yeah, for me, what I said, it's the most important to win here, and of course, I wish him that he does well. You know, he deserves to finish second in The Race to Dubai. He won a Major this year. He had a great season. So that second is fine. 

 Q. Will it keep you on your game more and more if he is actually challenging or does it matter? 
 MARTIN KAYMER: Maybe. Maybe. You know, yesterday I was really into my game, especially after the eagle on the third hole, that put me in a really good position. 
 I probably would focus a little bit more, but I can feel the last three or four holes, I get a little bit tired now, so that's why I think I need to sleep a little bit more to get it going the next two days. 

 Q. And stop answering silly questions?
 MARTIN KAYMER: Yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT