U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP 2017
June 15, 2017
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Martin, did anything surprise you about the way the course was set up or the conditions based on what you were expecting coming into the week?  
MARTIN KAYMER: Not really for the first round, I was a bit surprised about some pin positions to go somewhere very, very tricky.  But the greens were still very soft when we played in the morning.  So it was playable, but when you miss the fairways it's very hard.  I think Jordan had one tee shot and made four or five to the right rough and he could barely get it off maybe ten yards, so it gets very brutal.   
So it was obviously, you saw the score, so it was very scorable, and hopefully the golf course will become even more difficult as the week goes on.  That even or 1- or 2-under par is a good score.   
 Q.  With a new venue, do they kind of ease into it a little bit to make sure -- they know what to expect coming in here before, or just keep conditioning easier the first round and see how guys do?  
MARTIN KAYMER: I think Mike Davis has a good plan.  His work the past few years has been very good.  So first it's always one of those you don't really know what you're going to get.  I think Mike doesn't know 100% how the tournament or the first round will turn out.  But for the first round I think he did a very good job.  In general, being here in Wisconsin, you know, I have very good memories here, so I always like to come here.   
 Q.  How big of a difference is it for you to start in the early day, early in the day on the first round?  
MARTIN KAYMER: I actually like it more the other way around you know when you play late early.  That's the way I won the U.S. Open in 2014 because I think the golf course gets harder and harder as the week goes on.  If you play late on Thursday, Friday early, then I always feel like you might have a little bit of a tiny advantage.   
But this week is a big difference because it's going to rain more than we're used to at the U.S. Open.  So I like to post a good score early in the week, and I think it's a decent way to start a major championship.   
 Q.  Do you think this is going to be a good test of the U.S. Open overtime?  
MARTIN KAYMER: I think the way the people in Wisconsin and Erin Hills have presented the golf course has been very, very good.  So it's definitely not the golf course's fault or anyone else's fault if the tournament's not going to get exciting.  It's only the player's fault if you have one guy going crazy and trying to win the tournament early.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT