PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2010
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Looks like you will secure your PGA TOUR card this week. 
 MARTIN KAYMER: That was my plan, to secure my card for next year, I think already before that tournament, I had enough money to play and I'm excited to play next year.

 Q. You've been putting yourself in the frame in a number of majors now; what have you learned from those experiences? 
 MARTIN KAYMER: Well, the big thing for me was the British Open. I played five tournaments row, and the British Open was the fifth tournament, and I was very tired. The last nine holes I played on Sunday, I didn't play very well anymore. I was losing my focus. I had no energy anymore. And the reason for that, I think it was a pretty easy reason, I didn't drink enough, I didn't eat a lot and obviously I had no energy anymore and I definitely don't want to make that mistake again.
 The experience that I had at the U.S. Open, that was unbelievable for me to be honest. That was one of the best golf courses are that I've played in my life, and to be in contention at the U.S. Open was fantastic.

 Q. It seems major after major, we talk about a first-time winner and a guy sitting on the lead the night before. We have been asking about this, does it seem more wide open; do you say to yourself tonight, why not me tomorrow? 
 MARTIN KAYMER: Well, I think it's a matter of putting yourself in contention all the time, and I really don't think that you can win your first major when you're in contention your first time. I think it takes some time. I've put myself in position already a couple times last year, and this year, so I know how it feels going into the final round having a chance to win. 
 I think it's just about patience. The same with Lee Westwood. He was playing so well the last couple of years and he couldn't win, but I mean, one day he will win. It's just a matter of time. 

 Q. How excited are you about tomorrow? 
 MARTIN KAYMER: I'm very excited. There's a lot going on tomorrow, with The Ryder Cup, as well; that's obviously important that I secure my spot there. But my goal now is to finish in the top five, top three, that would be great. If I'm playing exceptionally well tomorrow for the first time that I'm in the lead maybe or close, then of course I want to win, but top three, top five, hat would be awesome.

 Q. Do you not allow yourself to shoot for the lead unless you're close to it? Are you saying that you are okay three to five, or do you go in thinking, this is what I have to do to go get No. 1?
 MARTIN KAYMER: Well, I really don't want to put myself under pressure. I'm playing well. My putting was very well today. We'll see what happens. But for me, a very good final score would be Top-5. Of course, if I have a chance to win, of course I will do everything to win that tournament. 
 But I don't want to put too much pressure on myself. 

 Q. Young guys, Jason Day, Nick Watney is in his 20s, the leaderboard is more 20-something-year-olds than anything else. Are you still sort of free-wheeling because you're learning the ropes to some degree and playing aggressive?
 MARTIN KAYMER: I was actually very surprised when I watched GOLF CHANNEL on TV almost every day, I'm very surprised how aggressive everybody plays. The last couple of weeks, I was thinking about my play, a little bit, as well. Now, I play aggressive, as well, but for me it didn't really seem like it. 
 But for example, Rory or Nick Watney, they go for every flag. So, okay, on this golf course you can be very aggressive because it's wet, but it doesn't matter if you have a wedge or a 3-iron in your hands, they are always going for the flag. I think that's great, if you just accept and play shot for shot, and I think that's the way Tiger Woods plays, as well. He always goes for birdies, and I think that's a little bit the American style. It's awesome. It's great to see. 

 Q. Was there any experience that you had that kind of prepared you for this golf course? 
 MARTIN KAYMER: I mean, it's similar to Pebble Beach I would say. You have to hit a lot of fairways to put yourself in position in order to make birdies. But I mean, everybody can play golf here who made the cut. That's very obvious. It's all about the short game in the end, who makes the important putts, who stays in there. So, yeah. 

 Q. Everybody staying up late in Germany tonight I guess? 
 MARTIN KAYMER: Yeah (smiling).

 Q. Keys to this golf course? 
 MARTIN KAYMER: Well, you have to use the par 5s, they are definitely birdie holes, and with that wind that we had the last couple of days, you have a lot of birdie chances when you have holes that you try to get the ball downwind. There are plenty of birdie chances out there. You just have to make the putts. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT