ALSTOM OPEN DE FRANCE
July 3, 2010
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You started the day one behind and ended at one ahead, how do you feel about that?   
 MARTIN KAYMER: Well, obviously it was a little bit tough to see Alejandro making double-check check on 16 and 18. You want to play well to get in the lead. You don't want to see that.  
 But anyways, put myself in a good position for tomorrow, looking forward to it. It would be nice to win twice in France obviously.  
  
  Q. How did you feel about your own play today?   
 MARTIN KAYMER: Not good. I didn't play well today to be honest. I hit a lot of bad irons shots today but I kept it together and that was important for me. I made a lot of good putts today. If I can hit the irons a little better than today, I'll be fine.  
  
  Q. It's late in the evening, will you hit balls now or do something in the morning?  
 MARTIN KAYMER: No, I'll just go home. I played a lot of golf the last few weeks and I still have a couple of weeks to go with Loch Lomond, British Open, so I'll just go home and eat.  
  
  Q. How special would it be to defend this title?   
 MARTIN KAYMER: Well, this is one of the biggest tournaments we have on The European Tour, and I think to win here once is already a big thing; but to win it twice in a row would be awesome, especially thinking about The Ryder Cup and the next couple of weeks, they are big tournaments. So it will give me a lot of motivation.  
  
  Q. Germany won 4-0, your thoughts on that?  
 MARTIN KAYMER: The great thing about the World Cup is I win a lot of bets, so that's the great thing about it.   
  
  Q. You won back-to-back last year; can you defend back-to-back this year; is that possible?   
 MARTIN KAYMER: Well, I'm trying to defend here this week, but I don't know, my game feels okay. I didn't play very well today but I kept it together, which is important on this golf course, so you can easily get out of the tournament. But I kept myself in there, and next week, one of my favourite golf courses on The European Tour, so why not.  
  
  Q. When you came in, what gave you more pleasure, knowing that you were leading again going into the last round or that Germany had beaten Argentina?   
 MARTIN KAYMER: Well, it's funny, I was 1-over after a few holes today and my caddie said, "Hey, Germany is 1-0." And I said, "Oh, that's nice," and all of a sudden 2-0 and I made a birdie on 9 and I was hanging in there and I was just happy about Germany. I would love to see a final, Germany against Holland. That would be awesome.   
  
  Q. What did you play for your second shot at the last?   
 MARTIN KAYMER: 4-iron, quite a scary shot. Yesterday was a little more scary than today. There's a little more green to work with today.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT