ALSTOM OPEN DE FRANCE
July 2, 2010
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MARTIN KAYMER: Obviously I fancy the golf course. Today I didn't make any mistakes. I didn't make any bogeys. I suppose I hit a few bad golf shots today but the bad shots were at the right time so it didn't really hurt me. I could still obviously make par.   
 My putting was good today. I saved a couple, I think a 10-footer for par today. It was nice to finish with a birdie on 17, and I had a quite difficult one on 18. Hit a bad tee shot and I had 225 yards towards the flag, and that's not the most comfortable shot I would have wanted.   
  
  Q. You looked a long way back.   
 MARTIN KAYMER: I hit a 2-iron but I thought I needed to hit a good 2-ironto have a mid-iron to the green and I hit it very fat.   
 So I figured I will have a 5-iron, maybe a 6-iron, but when I got to the ball, I thought, oh, longer than I thought and hit a 4-iron. It was a good, solid hit.   
  
  Q. You're playing well enough now, after a little lull, after having won in Abu Dhabi and you had a bit of a lull; is the game fully back in shape? When I spoke to you two or three weeks ago, you were a bit worried.   
 MARTIN KAYMER: I played well until Doral, and then after Doral I had a little, not crisis so much, but a little down there. I was practising a lot before the Masters and I was hitting a lot of golf balls. I was pitching, chipping, putting a lot but it didn't really come together.   
 Finally I think everything comes together, and it's definitely coming together at the right time.  
  
  Q. Was there a period just after the surgery getting used to --  
 MARTIN KAYMER: No. It took me two or three days and then I could walk again, so no influence at all.   
  
  Q. Are you excited about the prospect; same feelings as last year?  
 MARTIN KAYMER: Yeah, I'll playing well, my putting is good. My dad is coming down tomorrow. I'm really looking forward to the weekend, yeah.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT