WGC CA CHAMPIONSHIP
March 13, 2010
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You have been spending a lot of time practicing your putting.   
 MARTIN KAYMER: So one day it should pay off. Obviously today was one of those days. Maybe tomorrow.   
  
  Q. How many hours are you doing?   
 MARTIN KAYMER: I mean, I was trying to be on the putting green two hours a day, but sometimes it was only one hour, sometimes it was 3 1/2.   
  
  Q. It almost seems like this course has played three different ways, three different days, Thursday whatever it was, Friday, today the wind changed and a lot of holes played downwind that were coming at you earlier; is it tough when it's always changing?   
 MARTIN KAYMER: I think most important is you're patient. Everybody will make bogeys and everybody will make a couple of 3-putts out there because it's so difficult. Every single shot is difficult, even when it's downwind. The hole plays shorter, but it's still difficult.   
 What you said, every day was very different. First day, there were a lot of holes downwind and into the wind. Today was more across. So I would say today was by far the toughest day.   
  
  Q. Do you think about your foot at all? Does it hurt when you're walking?   
 MARTIN KAYMER: It's not hurting at the moment. Of course I can still feel it, but the plan is that after Augusta, I will have three weeks off, and then I have the surgery in Germany to take all of the plates and the screws out, the week after Augusta.   
  
  Q. I thought you were are going to do that later in the season?  
 MARTIN KAYMER: I thought so, too. But you can't go running. I can't do anything. So I talked to my doctor in Germany and he said, if you want to, you can take them out already, so, why not.   
  
  Q. How long will you have to miss after they come out?  
 MARTIN KAYMER: Well, only a week or ten days, yeah. So that's why I take three weeks off.  
  
  Q. Are you very familiar with Charl? Do you know his game much? Have you played with him much?  
 MARTIN KAYMER: I played with him once in Munich two years ago. But obviously he won twice this year already in South Africa. And I think he's a very consistent player. I don't know if he's very good in wind or not; I can't say that.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT