WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 22, 2017
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  10 or 11 was the turning point of the match a little bit.  Talk about your win.  
MARTIN KAYMER: We had four holes that were very critical:  8, 9, 10 and 11.  That gave me a nice lead to go 2-up on two and the par-5, the 12th hole.  Overall, I played very solid.  Didn't make many mistakes.  I think it was a deserved win in the end.   
 Q.  What are the keys to winning matches out here, to take advantage of the momentum you gain on some holes like this?  
MARTIN KAYMER: I think you have to try to avoid making stupid mistakes, missing the green on short sides if the other one is not a good position.  If you play smart, playing smart is very difficult too because of the emotions and the adrenaline.   
Match play is very interesting and, therefore, a very exciting game for us and for the spectators.  It is a completely different challenge of approaching the game.   
 Q.  Why do you seem to be such a good match play player?  
MARTIN KAYMER: I feel like that freedom that I don't have in stroke play, I have in match play.  Sometimes I'm a bit sensitive with my putting.  In match play you can be very aggressive.  It will be a great learning experience this week again that I need to carry that mentality into the stroke game.   
 Q.  Is that hard for you to take that mentality, it seems like?  
MARTIN KAYMER: I think I could have had more success this year if my putting would have been more aggressive.  The putting is good, it's just not aggressive enough.  Today I made three very long putts.  I think I made three very long putts all year last year.  That shows a lot and it was a great learning experience today that I can hopefully carry on to tomorrow.   
 Q.  It's been a roller coaster to start off and then you got into your game?  
MARTIN KAYMER: A roller coaster?  No, not really.  I mean, both of us had one mistake.  He had a mistake on 2.  I had a mistake on 3.  But the rest was very solid when we talk about the front nine.  On the back nine I made a couple long putts to get my score up, get my momentum on my side.  In the end, I played very solid on the back nine.  If you don't make mistakes, it's difficult to lose a hole.   
 Q.  To get the win is really, really important today?  
MARTIN KAYMER: For me it was important to win my first match before I play against Dustin.  Dustin is a tough one and you need a little bit of confidence going into tomorrow.  He doesn't make many mistakes and he's always in top form.   
 Q.  Your form, though, you must be really pleased today?  
MARTIN KAYMER: Yeah, I played good at the moment which was very nice today.  Playing match play gives any freedom of the putting.  I can be a little more aggressive.  Sometimes you miss a little bit in stroke play.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT