ABU DHABI GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 23, 2010
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   SCOTT CROCKETT: Martin, thanks for coming in and joining us and well done. You certainly liked No. 6 and 7, put you in a very good position, just give us your thoughts on taking the lead into the final day. 
 MARTIN KAYMER: I know how it feels, three years ago, I was leading as well. I was leading by six shots and tomorrow I'm only leading by one, so it will be nice to expand that lead tomorrow --
 SCOTT CROCKETT: It's obviously a course you feel comfortable on Martin, do you enjoy coming here and the feelings from winning here?
 MARTIN KAYMER: The golf -- my game, and I really like, I really like the golf course in general and especially coming from such a long break, five or six weeks when I was in America, you arrive feeling really motivated and can't really wait to play golf again. 

 Q. You said you still have the plates in your foot, how uncomfortable is it now?
 MARTIN KAYMER: Well, I can still -- walking --

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 MARTIN KAYMER: On certain shots, I'm a little bit more careful, of course I am, but in general -- it's fine. Some shots the first day, especially when I was hitting underneath, then I can feel it my fool through but in general everything is fine. 

 Q. You chose to hit some shots today -- would you have been able to get rid of it had you asked for it? 
 MARTIN KAYMER: I think so, and dropping the ball from the sand and then on top of the green. 

 Q. I don't know how many times you've been asked, but can you tell us what happened in the go-kart? 
 MARTIN KAYMER: I can't explain it -- (laughter). Obviously the go carts, it was just a matter of time and seeing it all happen, so hitting it straight -- usually just go full power, but the girl in front of me -- nothing against the girl, or that she was a girl, so she drove the same way, and the guy in front of me, he had to brake, as well. 
 So I crashed into her and there was no chance to avoid the accident. I could have braked and then go inside, I wanted to do this and in this moment, the guy behind me pushed me, because he didn't see them and he pushed me straight into them. I think without the seat belt, I would have been thrown out of it. 
 So I can't really explain what happened with the foot, yeah, I just felt the pain straightaway. For me it was just more that my knees, obviously my legs are longer -- so, yeah, that was pretty much, and then I went straight to the hospital and the surgery. 

 Q. In 2003 when you played your first tournament, you were leading the tournament, and two years ago, you were back again -- can you just tell us -- and the second question is, have you ever, like many of your --
 MARTIN KAYMER: It would be nice, and the thing is I have a place in Phoenix and I'm only there for six weeks Germany and ten weeks -- so I wouldn't be able to use the house or the facilities, because in the wintertime I practise in Phoenix and that would definitely be a place to spend the winters and in the summers, I have Germany, and you don't want to risk coming here in the summertime. Yeah, that's why I bought it. 

 Q. And so your feelings, how do you feel --
 MARTIN KAYMER: Even in the final round I was leading by six shots, but still, it felt, yeah, really special, because the final group on Sunday, to see how I played golf, I played really shy, I didn't go for the flags and my putting, I left my putts short. And so this indicates you're not feeling -- my confidence wasn't really there. This happened -- after playing a few years on The European Tour now and playing in the big events last year --

 Q. Because of the injury last year, does that make you more motivated do you think? 
 MARTIN KAYMER: To start off well here in the Middle East, my main goal is just to play well this year. Yeah, it would be nice to put myself in good position early in the season already. 

 Q. How much of a disappointment was it for you to miss a chance of winning The Race to Dubai? 
 MARTIN KAYMER: Pretty much everything came down to the last tournament and of course it was very disappointing sitting at home and not doing anything. I couldn't really win any money for The Race to Dubai, and when I came back, I was leading, I don't know how many Euros, but when it came up to the last tournament -- and I didn't really fancy the golf course. Lee Westwood and Rory McIlroy, they finished one and two on The Race to Dubai and they played well on the venue and they played well the entire season, so they deserved to be there.

 Q. The go-kart crash, what conversations have you had with Monty over the last nine months? 
 MARTIN KAYMER: Colin Montgomerie, we talked about my off-season and yesterday evening, last night at the reception, but it was very -- let him know it was okay and he was excited if I can stay the course.

 Q. Do it they set off the alarms at the airport? 
 MARTIN KAYMER: No, not at the airport. I could take the plates off today already, it has healed. The problem that I have is that I took them out, then it would take maybe two, three weeks to recover, and at the moment, I have a schedule that I don't have three weeks off. 
 The next time I have three weeks off, after the FBR Open, I have three weeks off between FBR Open and Doral. But two weeks is too risky, and three weeks, if it doesn't work out, then I might just give it another week or cancel, so I'm going to wait until the middle of the season and take them out in September. 

 Q. You obviously feel comfortable here, what is it you like about Abu Dhabi? 
 MARTIN KAYMER: When I first came here three years ago, it was second or third tournament on The European Tour, the food, the hotel, the incredible, and everybody week I was expecting to be like this pretty much. So it really -- I feel very comfortable out here. It felt very similar to the desert in Phoenix where I practise in the wintertime, so that's why probably play -- I don't know, I just feel in general very comfortable coming here, very easy travelling to the other tournaments here. 
 SCOTT CROCKETT: Martin, thanks, as always. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT