ABU DHABI GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 22, 2010
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MARTIN KAYMER: Yesterday was a pretty good round. I played better than today obviously, shoot the same score yesterday. Played more soul led yesterday and 10-under now which is pretty good for the weekend I guess.   
 Yeah, I don't know, I think I'm kind of leading now, with a few other guys, so it's good.   
  
  Q. Obviously a good position to be in, but I wonder whether there's any element of surprise at how well you're playing so soon to the start of the year?   
 MARTIN KAYMER: You know, two years ago, I won here. Last year, I finished second. This year looks pretty good already. I think I'm just so motivated from the break I had. You have five or six weeks off and you don't really play any tournaments, and you can't wait to get out and make some birdies.  
  
  Q. The fact that it was a good break, as opposed to the longer layoff beforehand, you could relax and put your feet up and enjoy the fact?  
 MARTIN KAYMER: Yeah, it was a good break, five or six weeks after Tiger's event, stayed in America pretty much the whole time and could practise a lot which was nice.   
 My foot is still not 100 per cent healed or recovered, still 80, 85 per cent, but I mean, I can play golf as much as I want, which is nice, and hopefully I can take the plates out as soon as possible.   
  
  Q. That routine has worked for you, hasn't it, going across to the States, practising through the winter and getting ready for the season?   
 MARTIN KAYMER: Yeah, I did it the last four years, and was always fun to practise there. And I felt I've really good, too. When I came here, I felt ready to play golf. The previous years when I was still an amateur or my first season as a professional, I felt pretty -- yeah, not really ready for playing golf again, because the weather in Germany, couldn't really practise.  
 So, yeah, it's been good.  
  
  Q. And always good to come back here, as you say, with your record here, it's second to none?  
 MARTIN KAYMER: Yeah, it's nice. Hopefully I can get the title back this year because I've heard it's the last time we play here, this course, we are going to move somewhere next year, which hopefully I fancy the golf course, too, but obviously I like to come here a lot.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT