WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 22, 2017
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Very difficult match.  A couple of major champions going head-to-head.  What got you by him?
MARTIN KAYMER: I didn't make any mistakes, especially on the back nine.  I played really solid.  Gave myself a lot of chances.  Putted really well.  I made a couple of unexpected putts on 11, the par-3.  It was a big swinger, and then just on 15, he hits it to three feet.  It's one of those things where you can really -- Jimmy is a very good putter, and that's the biggest difference.  You can get some shots that you wouldn't by what you do.
Q. You have a very difficult group.  You have Dustin Johnson.  He just won big.  What kind of challenges does he present?
MARTIN KAYMER: Obviously he's the No. 1 player in the world.  It's never easy against those guys.  There's a lot of respect the way he played golf the last few years.
But on the other hand in match play maybe he has a little of a weak day once in a while and you can just hope for that.  It's one of those golf courses where you can bomb it and get away with missing the fairways once in a while.  But doesn't look like he's missing many fairways right now.  So it's going to be a challenge.
I like the format.  I like match play.  My record is fairly decent.  So I go out and there tomorrow and fight against the No. 1 player in the world.
Q. It's funny how match play can turn on a single putt.  Talking about the 15th hole, Jimmy Walker knocks it in to within about four feet and before he gets a chance to putt you drop in a 40-footer and end up birdieing the 16th, as well, to close out the match?
MARTIN KAYMER: It's one of those freedoms that you have in match play that you don't mind if you three-putt or one-putt from 40 feet because the guy is so close.  There was you get the bonus and it drops in.  And instead of being 1-up you're still 2-up, 3 to go, so there's a chance to bring it home.  But you still need to close it out.
I played really solid today.
Q. I want you to enjoy this victory, but look forward a little bit tomorrow for us.  Dustin Johnson?
MARTIN KAYMER: It's going to be a tough match.  He's the No. 1 player in the world.  He's playing really solid right now, doesn't make many mistakes.  I can only hope for a weak day from him.
But overall it's going to be a very, very difficult match.  And if you would win one of those, it gives you so much confidence that you can go quite deep in the tournament.  So I'd rather see it from a very positive perspective.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT