WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 5, 2009
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MARTIN KAYMER: I had a good back nine, so the front nine, my back nine, I shot I think 4-under. Especially the last few holes, they were very nice. I hit a lot of good, solid golf shots, made the putts finally, and yeah, 66 on every golf course is a good round, but especially here in a World Golf Championship event, it helps to start off with a good round. 

 Q. A matter of being patient out there, as well? 
 MARTIN KAYMER: It's difficult. It's not that easy of a golf course. You have to hit a lot of fairways and greens. The rough is very thick. But my driver was well today and my approaches, they were pretty well today. It's not normal to play 66 on this golf course, it's not that easy, but I'm surprised about the course. There are a few guys under par, and not only one or two. It played fairly easy today but it's not that easy I think. 

 Q. A quick trip over from Spain. 
 MARTIN KAYMER: Jet-lag is actually okay. Slept very well the last two nights. My foot, it's hurting a little bit more than last week, a little surprised, but the good thing is only three rounds to go and then I have a week off.

 Q. Why would that be? Any idea why it's hurting more, given the terrain that you had to cope with in the Match Play? 
 MARTIN KAYMER: I don't know. Actually when I had those two or three days off after the Match Play, when I got here on Monday, and I played on Tuesday a little bit, it felt actually okay. 
 But yesterday, I don't know, it got a little worse after the round and today after nine holes, it felt already a little worse than last week. But I don't know what the reasons are. We'll put some ice on it. I'll be fine. 

 Q. Still in terms of playing the shots, as you said before, it's trouble for balance and starts?
 MARTIN KAYMER: My swing is still the same. It doesn't have any effect on my golf swing. It's just walking, that's the problem. It hurts a little bit when I'm walking. But doesn't affect my golf game.

 Q. Not going to go to any Chinese therapies or anything?
 MARTIN KAYMER: Well, I will check out with the physios. We have very good physios in Europe, so it's good that they are here. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT