THE BARCLAYS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 11, 2009
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MARTIN KAYMER: I played really, really solid today. I hit a lot of fairways and a lot of greens, and so I'm very happy with my round. Hopefully I can keep it up. 

 Q. Yesterday you told us you were a little surprised to be in contention, feeling a little tired, how were you today?
 MARTIN KAYMER: Well, slept so long here today. When I got here yesterday, I slept two hours on the couch and last night I slept almost 12 hours last night, so I was really pretty fit this morning.

 Q. Does it affect your course management when you go for that 14th hole without any hesitation?
 MARTIN KAYMER: Well, it was only 250 metres to the front of the green, so I knew if I hit a solid driver, I can easily get there and there's so much room on the right side, I felt pretty good, so I thought, just go for it. I missed it a little bit still, and a good chance to make birdie there. 

 Q. How much can you draw on the experience of winning last week?
 MARTIN KAYMER: Well, I'm not really sure. It's a different golf course, but I think the only thing I will think about for tomorrow is just be patient and wait for your birdie chance and play well and if I make a few putts, I might have a chance. 

 Q. No dropped shots in that 66, how tough was it out there? 
 MARTIN KAYMER: Well, it was not that difficult. When I arrived here in the morning, I saw all the good scores already, so I thought it's not going to be that difficult. They put a couple of tees forward so that we can go for the par 4s, No. 9 and 14, which was nice. I felt like the pins were quite easy today, so you could play it very aggressive today.

 Q. Now, are you feeling confident of another victory following your success France?
 MARTIN KAYMER: Definitely. If you win the previous week, it obviously gives you motivation, and I really like the golf course, playing well, so everything is fine.

 Q. What about the U.S. Open and the BMW, and then you win and now you're really in the thick of things. What was the transition? What changed? 
 MARTIN KAYMER: Well, actually before the U.S. Open already, I was playing well but I couldn't really get the score on the scorecard. Missed a few putts or missed a couple of fairways, and I had a really, really bad lie and those kind of things. 
 Last week everything came together and this week, everything feels good, too. That's probably the biggest difference to the U.S. Open and Munich. 

 Q. Clearly you are very comfortable here in Loch Lomond. 
 MARTIN KAYMER: We are staying in a very nice hotel which is next door to the golf course, it's perfect, and it's very unusual that the weather is pretty good here. It's a fun week so far. 

 Q. You seem comfortable enough in whatever position you're in, because you know how to win. 
 MARTIN KAYMER: The thing is on this golf course, you can shoot low scores. Today the pins were pretty easy, so it's going to be definitely a little different tomorrow. My caddie and me, we had a few looks at the pin positions tomorrow, and they are all in the corners. It's all about putting tomorrow. If you make a few 15- to 20-footers, that will definitely help.

 Q. How much have you learned about the course? 
 MARTIN KAYMER: Well, today was easy conditions, they moved a couple of tees forward so that we could go for the par 4s, and in general, the last three days have played very similar. 

 Q. What will you do tonight? 
 MARTIN KAYMER: I will definitely take it easy tonight, because I've played so many tournaments the last few weeks. I will have another rack of ribs tonight to make me ready for tomorrow. 

 Q. That's obviously the secret then. 
 MARTIN KAYMER: Yeah, I have the ribs almost every day since I'm in Scotland, so it helps. 

 Q. I didn't know Scotsmen were good at ribs. 
 MARTIN KAYMER: They were very, very good, and mozzarella as a starter. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT