THE ABU DHABI GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 15, 2009
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Thoughts on the day? 
 MARTIN KAYMER: Not as good as last year but I'm very happy. I didn't hit the ball very well today but my putting was awesome, so that gave me a lot of opportunities to make birdies. I'm happy.

 Q. 4-under, but, in fact, as you hinted there, it could have been much better, couldn't it, because you had a couple of lipouts and putts which just sort of shaded the hole?
 MARTIN KAYMER: Especially on my back nine, the first 9-over here, I had I think three lipouts on these nine holes. 
 So it could have been better. But I'm very happy about the 4-under. I made a few unexpected putts and had a really long putt on No. 5, a really long birdie putt, so that was a great bonus. In general, I'm happy, yeah. 

 Q. And you have good memories here, it was just a year ago when you emerged as the champion here. So will this be -- it's a place you like. Have you noticed any changes?
 MARTIN KAYMER: Actually the wind -- it's a year ago, but it feels like yesterday, especially when I walked down 18 today. There's not a big difference. The golf course is very similar. The rough is not as thick as last year, but in general, it's very similar. I mean, they made some changes besides the golf course, which I mean, it's not interesting for us as a player but more for the spectators. 

 Q. You talked in general about finding out how you'll be playing; you don't really know until you actually get out there in tournament play exactly how it's going to go for you. How did it go for you or how would you assess it?
 MARTIN KAYMER: I felt pretty good today. I mean, my ball-striking was not as good as I was expecting it, but I kept it together, and the putting kept me alive. 
 So it's always the same when you have such a long break, like what I had, five, six weeks. You don't really know what's going on the first tournament, but in general, I'm pleased. 

 Q. And what will you be thinking about now? Obviously Sunday is a little bit maybe too far ahead to see yourself as a back-to-back champion. Is it now simply focusing on tomorrow and maybe tinkering with one or two little things?
 MARTIN KAYMER: I'm two or three shots back now, so that's what's most important. You're always trying to orientate up there and what the score is up there. I'm only two back, so I'm trying to catch the guys on Sunday. It's a long way until Sunday. So there's still 55 holes left, or 54 left, sorry. So everything had happen, but I'll try to win again, of course. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT