OMEGA MISSION HILLS WORLD CUP
November 29, 2008
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Tell us about heading into this position in the last day?  
 MARTIN KAYMER: We played only 4-under in better-ball, it's not great, especially after our start on Thursday. But I think we are still up there. We are only four or five shots back, and if we have a good day tomorrow, then yeah, maybe we can get up there.  
  
  Q. Any reason for things not quite clicking as they did on day one, or is that just the nature of this game?   
 MARTIN KAYMER: I think it's just the nature. We had a good chance but we didn't hole a lot of putts. I was not playing that great today. But we kept it together.  
  
  Q. Reflecting on the second day foursomes, that was hard work at times; improvement needed on the final day?  
 MARTIN KAYMER: Yeah, definitely. Yesterday was very, very hard work. We played -- seriously, we played not good the first nine holes. Then we made a few birdies on the back nine, which is all right and put us in good position for today.   
 I mean, we are still up there, so we are looking forward to tomorrow and hopefully can improve.   
  
  Q. And it takes a little bit of genius, knowing what you've experienced in the first round of foursomes, just to get going and try to take the peg back out?   
 MARTIN KAYMER: It is tough, because you have kind of a break for two holes. It can happen. If you make a putt, let's say on the fourth hole and the next hole, par 3, Alex hits, and then I'm putting, as well.   
 So there's quite a big gap, and it's tough to get into it. But it's just the format and everybody has to play.  
  
  Q. Can you quite believe what Spain managed to achieve?   
 MARTIN KAYMER: Not really. I mean, I know what Miguel has, some different kind of stuff in his cigars, I don't know (laughing). No, obviously they are playing very good golf and they played a shot better than they played the day before, and it was awesome golf.  
  
  Q. Normally on the third day, you would not be talking about what happened on day two; but essentially that has made the whole shift of this tournament, hasn't it?  
 MARTIN KAYMER: Yes, it was an outstanding round. Everybody is happy when you play 67, 68, and that's always a good score on this golf course. But I think that their 63, that is unbelievable.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT