OMEGA MISSION HILLS WORLD CUP
November 28, 2008
Alex Cejka
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You had an indifferent front nine, got it going a little bit on the back nine but never really got it totally going today. How do you feel?   
 MARTIN KAYMER: It was a really workday today, as you say we struggled on the first nine, and on the back nine, we made a few birdies which put us I think in a good position for the weekend. So I think we are tied second now, Spain had obviously a huge day.   
  
  Q. Did that worry you as you saw them shooting up there?   
 ALEX CEJKA: No, we were just trying to survive today and not to lose too much ground. As Martin said, we were struggling. I hit a couple of poor tee shots. We had a couple bogeys that really hurts. But we were fighting to the end. We made a couple good birdies coming in, and I think we can be pleased with a couple under today.   
  
  Q. Did you feel it coming on? Did you hit the ball well on the range or did you feel an indifferent day?   
 MARTIN KAYMER: To be honest I felt in the morning already that I'm a little off today. I felt a little bit like that, I don't know why.   
 I hope it's going to be the same tomorrow what it was yesterday. Yeah, that was probably my problem today?  
  
  Q. Who made your birdie putts today?   
 MARTIN KAYMER: I think Alex made them.   
 ALEX CEJKA: I had a couple on the par 5s where I didn't reach the green and he chipped it up. And I hit a couple. But overall, it was a struggle. You know, it's tough to get into a rhythm. You make one shot and then, you know, you wait for such a long time.   
 You know, we have to do it, and we have to do it one more day on Sunday, and we'll see.  
  
  Q. Did the weather bother you? A little cool today; did it make a difference?   
 MARTIN KAYMER: I think it's perfect. For me, as a German -- he's living in Vegas.   
 ALEX CEJKA: I'm spoiled. I need another 20 more degrees.   
 MARTIN KAYMER: For me, it was perfect.   
 ALEX CEJKA: Good golfing weather.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT