MERCEDES-BENZ CHAMPIONSHIP IN COLOGNE
September 10, 2008
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 KLAUS WAESCHLE: Welcome, Martin, to the Mercedes-Benz Championship 2008. 
 You've played a tremendous season and you already had one victory on German soil. What do you expect from this tournament here in KÃƒ ¶ln? 
 MARTIN KAYMER: Actually the same as in Munich. I would like to perform better than I did last year. I missed the cut last year in Munich and did obviously better this year, and that's my goal for this year in KÃƒ ¶ln, as well. I know the way I finished last year, it was 30-something, so it would be nice if I could finish Top-10 or something like that. 

 Q. Thoughts on this week compared to the Ryder Cup?
 MARTIN KAYMER: I think they are two different pair of shoes, you know what I mean by that? I think Ryder Cup is a very special event, and this is a very special event as well for me. It was Germany, my home, and I'm just focusing on this event, these four rounds and then we will see where I'm ending up on Sunday. 

 Q. Are you aware that there are some minor injury worries for the team have come to light, especially for Lee Westwood and Robert Karlsson, and you might get a call at the last minute? 
 MARTIN KAYMER: They are a really strong team so far and obviously Lee Westwood and Robert Karlsson had some really good finishes this year already and I wish them all the best. They have a really strong team and I hope they stay healthy and they can play the tournament. 

 Q. Did you have last week off? 
 MARTIN KAYMER: Yeah, I had last week off. I played five tournaments in a row, and especially the first two weeks we're in America, so they cost me a lot of energy, travelling-wise and playing-wise. So it's a little different when you go to America, and so I was really happy to have that break last week. 

 Q. Do you think it cost you a spot on the team, playing in America?
 MARTIN KAYMER: It was a great experience to play these two events, they were two big ones, the World Golf Championships event and the last major but it didn't cost me anything, like I didn't play very well these two tournaments and I wouldn't say that I suffered because of these events that I went to. It was just two normal tournaments, which cost me energy, yes, but playing-wise, was fine. 

 Q. What do you think it will take for next time to make the team? 
 MARTIN KAYMER: It's really tough to say. I was really close this year. I was only a few Euros off of 10th place. I think you just have to work on your game and be patient and just try to play as good as you can. You have to be really consistent, that is what I figured out. Because it doesn't matter if you had two good tournaments like I had this year, two wins; it's not enough this year. So you had to play really consistent to be a member. 
 KLAUS WAESCHLE: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT