BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 21, 2008
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. 67 today, did all go according to plan?
 MARTIN KAYMER: Yeah, not too bad. I hit a lot of good shots today, and in general very happy with the round.

 Q. You led wire-to-wire in Abu Dhabi and went on to win your first victory, and now you're in the same position tomorrow in front of your home folk; do you feel pressure or what?
 MARTIN KAYMER: It's neat, especially in Germany. I hope there's a lot of support tomorrow, and I'm really looking forward to tomorrow.

 Q. Bernhard has never been this tournament; did you know that?
 MARTIN KAYMER: I heard about it.

 Q. Out there today, we saw you holding your stomach; is your health all right?
 MARTIN KAYMER: I'm good.

 Q. You're not giving anything away, are you? 
 MARTIN KAYMER: I'm fine. 

 Q. Yesterday you said a normal round would be putting not the way you did yesterday, and another 67 today. 
 MARTIN KAYMER: I didn't hole too many putts I guess today, so that was pretty much the round I was explaining yesterday. I've putted very normal, very usual, so that's just a 67 there. 

 Q. Tomorrow is going to be a really big day in your career, with lots of commentation on The Ryder Cup as well, how do you feel you'll handle it?
 MARTIN KAYMER: Well, of course there are a lot of things I can't think about, but I'll just try to focus on my game plan tomorrow. I'm just trying to enjoy it, especially in Germany. I hope there's a lot of support out there tomorrow, and I think it's going to be good. 

 Q. It's going to be a big day, but a six-shot lead is rather comfortable, isn't it? 
 MARTIN KAYMER: Yeah, I was in the same situation a couple of months ago already, so I know how it feels. I'm just looking forward. It's nice to have the chance to win in your own country, and I hope that there will be a lot of support tomorrow. 

 Q. Having done it, you did it in Abu Dhabi; that was your maiden victory, so had its own pressures. Different pressures tomorrow trying to become the first German winner of this tournament, home crowd, etc., but do you think you're looking forward to the challenge? 
 MARTIN KAYMER: Oh, definitely. It's always nice to have the big challenge, but I think there are at least seven, eight other guys that want to win, as well. So I'm just trying to stick to my game plan tomorrow, play aggressive, but still smart, and so then I will see where I'm ending up.
 I had a couple more birdie chances on the back nine. I didn't make them, but still 67 is a good round. And especially with the finish on 18, I was not expecting to make birdie there with quite a long putt, so, that was a big bonus.

 Q. This is the 20th birthday of the BMW International Open. How special a birthday party would it be if you were to go on and win the title tomorrow? 
 MARTIN KAYMER: Yeah, everybody is talking about the victory, the win. I'll just try and enjoy it, and obviously there's a good chance, but just try to stick to my game plan and then we'll see where it ends up. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT