BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 20, 2008
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   RODDY WILLIAMS: If you could give us your initial reaction to a fantastic day out there, please. 
 MARTIN KAYMER: I played very solid today. I hit a couple shots off-line, but my putting was really good today. I hit a couple 15-, 20-footers that went in. So on one hand, it was a lucky round, because if I putt just normal, it would be like 4- or 5-under par. 
 9-under, yeah, it was pretty good. 

 Q. Having seen you win in Abu Dhabi and having a 61 in Portugal, how special is this round, bearing in mind it's at home?
 MARTIN KAYMER: It's very close to the 61, that's right, yeah.
 It's nice to play in your own country. There was a lot of support yesterday and today already, and to play with Bernhard Langer was awesome. I mean, he played okay. He didn't play as good as he played a couple weeks ago, that's for sure, but you can always see how good he is, if he needs it. 
 So that's very special, and I was just enjoying the two rounds. 

 Q. And it's special that he had a word with you, as well and gave you some advice. 
 MARTIN KAYMER: Yeah, it was nice. He has so much experience, and if there's someone out here who can help me, probably there are a couple more, but yeah, he's one of the most important for me. Because he's German, and he can explain to me in German actually what I can improve. So that was important for me to speak to him. 

 Q. That's lovely when you've shot a 63 and you know that you can still improve. 
 MARTIN KAYMER: Definitely, there are a lot of things that I can improve but he just said that I can improve my wedges and obviously he's really good in wedges, so I can never compare with him, but yeah. 

 Q. I heard you reflecting on the round and saying that you were hitting it miles and really surprised yourself with the distance you were hitting. 
 MARTIN KAYMER: Yeah, I don't know why, but I know we are a little high here so hitting the ball a little bit further, but not that far. A little scary, but my caddie handled it very well.

 Q. How does this compare to last year? I know you weren't here come the weekend, were you, so just so much an improved player or one of those things?
 MARTIN KAYMER: It was always tough to make the cut in Germany because there are so many people here that are expecting a lot, and family and friends are here. So that's always a little pressure.
 But this week, it's a little different, so yeah. 

 Q. But compared to last year when you felt that pressure, this time you're enjoying it and riding on that wave? 
 MARTIN KAYMER: I enjoyed last year, as well, but there was just different -- there were a lot of media and I couldn't handle it, so this year is a little different, because of my manager -- I have a manager this year, and hopefully for the next couple years, and yeah, he organised it very well for me. 
 In general, my team, my family and a couple other guys, they handled it very well. 

 Q. You must be getting more and more used to it, aren't you? 
 MARTIN KAYMER: Yes, which is good. 
 
 Q. Despite playing under pressure in front of your home crowd, you seemed to be relishing it and enjoying it; is that the case?
 MARTIN KAYMER: Definitely. Playing with Bernhard Langer is always nice, doesn't matter if it's a practise round or a tournament round. 
 And to play in your own country with all of the support of all of the spectators and friends, it's awesome to play here, and I'm really looking forward to playing tomorrow and on Sunday, and definitely in Colon. That's very close to my hometown so hopefully there will be more coming out. 

 Q. Bernhard spoke to you after the round. Can you tell us what he said? 
 MARTIN KAYMER: Yeah, I just asked him, if he saw anything what I can improve, and he told me, "You can improve your wedges a little bit." A couple were off-line today, and especially the distance control wasn't very good. 
 But that's the thing in general this week. I'm hitting the ball really long this week; I don't know why, but I hit it really long. Like yesterday, on the eighth hole, it was 190 metres, and I hit a 7-iron and it was pin-high. It was a little scary to be honest. 

 Q. Did he offer his advice in helping you improve?
 MARTIN KAYMER: Yeah, I just asked him how he improved his short game and he told me a couple things, how I can do it, so it was a help. 

 Q. How close were you to not playing this week because of the situation at home? 
 MARTIN KAYMER: I went home, yeah, but I always wanted to play here, so there was no doubt about it. 








END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT