OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 3, 2017
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How pleased are you with that performance?
MARTIN KAYMER: Very pleased, because I was hitting a lot of good golf shots.  Putting was very hard.  Sometimes you hit before the gust and sometimes the gust comes without predicting, so it was very hard to make putts to get the ball close.
But as long as you hit the fairways and greens; that was the main goal the last couple days.  Not trying to make any silly mistakes, and I did that very well.
Q. It's a tournament you've come close to winning before.  Do you feel that puts you in good stead going into the weekend?
MARTIN KAYMER: I think if I continue my long game the way I played yesterday and today, I think I might have a good chance on Sunday.  But I need to make more out of my chances around the greens.
Especially yesterday, I had five pretty straightforward up-and-downs and I didn't make a birdie off them.  So it could have been a very low round yesterday, and also today.  So if I continue this and maybe pick up a couple here and there, I might have a chance.
Q. You played well a couple weeks ago in Abu Dhabi.  Are you in a general sense feeling pretty good about where your golf is?
MARTIN KAYMER: I've played well the last couple weeks.  I'm very happy with the way I'm striking the golf ball, and especially in wind like that, that's a big factor if you strike it solid.  I just enjoy playing Abu Dhabi, Dubai, the whole thing.  After having seven, eight weeks off, you're ready to play, and even better if you can compete on the weekend.
Q. Just very quickly, thoughts on Tiger not being here today.
MARTIN KAYMER: Who knows what the reason is.  I just heard it a minute ago.  I don't know if it's injury or whatever it is.  Just sad for the golf tournament and sad for us players to see one of the best players, probably the best player in our era -- it's a shame to see.  On one hand, you want to see him play golf, and on the other hand you don't want to see him struggling.  It's a tricky one.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT