DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
January 31, 2008
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Disappointing finish but good day overall?   
 MARTIN KAYMER:  Yeah, 5-under is not bad but actually 18 is a birdie hole and I was in a really good position to make birdie and that was a terrible shot from the fairway.  I think I was swinging the club too fast, so that's why I had no control about it.  So just a terrible shot.   
  
  Q.  But up to that, it was good?   
 MARTIN KAYMER:  It was still 5-under.  I made a lot of birdies today.  I made eight birdies.  I was putting very well today.  I think I put myself in a really good position for tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  I could see your disappointment.  How long does it take for you to get over it?   
 MARTIN KAYMER:  Not too long.   
  
  Q.  A couple minutes?   
 MARTIN KAYMER:  Maybe half an hour maximum.  I will just hit some balls now and think about it but really pleased with this round.   
  
  Q.  Do you feel refreshed now?   
 MARTIN KAYMER:  Yeah, after Abu Dhabi, there were a lot of things going on after that, especially Monday and Tuesday and I got a cold, as well so I didn't feel really well when I played in Qatar.  Right now I played over here and the hotel, I like the food and great golf course, so everything, it's really good.   
  
  Q.  How about the man at the top of the leaderboard.   
 MARTIN KAYMER:  It wasn't a surprise.  But yeah, we will see how he's doing on the next three days, but I will try my very best.  I think it will be really, really tough to catch him.   
  
  Q.  It must be a great thing for you personally to be playing in a tournament in the U.S., is this the first time you've played in the same event?   
 MARTIN KAYMER:  Yeah, the first time that I've seen him.  Yeah, it's very impressive.  I watched him Tuesday on the range, I was like a spectator.  I was behind him for like half an hour just watching, very impressive.   
  
  Q.  What impressed you most?   
 MARTIN KAYMER:  The rhythm and how he swings the club, really good.   
  
  Q.  Do you think you can get close to him?   
 MARTIN KAYMER:  I don't know.  I just try my very best and we'll see.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT