ABU DHABI GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 19, 2008
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  You played very well again? 
 MARTIN KAYMER:  Yes, not a single bogey which was good. In fact I think I have only made two bogeys all week, which is great here. I played with Henrik Stenson who is a really nice guy and I really enjoyed the round. I can't wait for tomorrow now. I made four birdies too which is good. My putting wasn't quite as good as it had been on Thursday and Friday but it was still all right. I plan just to stick to my game plan tomorrow and we'll see what happens. 
 
 Q.  What was your mindset when you started? 
 MARTIN KAYMER:  I felt a little nervous but I had a really good start and made two birdies on the opening two holes and that settled me down and that gave me a lot of confidence for the next 16 holes. 
 
 Q.  Has it surprised you how well you've played this week? 
 MARTIN KAYMER:  Actually it has because when I came here on Tuesday I didn't like the greens that much but now I love them. I am putting really well. I was in the States all winter and I was playing on different greens to this and it was a little different when I came here and I needed time to get used to it but now I how it feels and how to deal with them. 
 
 Q.  Of course, Fanny Suneson was on Henrik's bag and I know she has helped you a little bit in the past too? 
 MARTIN KAYMER:  Yes she has. She is a really nice woman and I have known her for three years now and she has supported me and helped me in a lot of things so it was really nice to have her in the group today. 
 
 Q.  Thoughts for tomorrow? 
 MARTIN KAYMER:  Just stick to my game plan and we will see. 
 
 Q.  What work have you done with Fanny over the years? 
 MARTIN KAYMER:  She helped me a little bit with course management and how to handle some media stuff. I didn't know anything when I came out on Tour last year and she was the person I was able to ask about stuff. She said if I needed any advice or help with anything then just come up and ask her which was very kind. I actually first met her when I was playing with the German National Team in the Amateur Team Championship and I met her there. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT