ABU DHABI HSBC CHAMPIONSHIP
January 21, 2017
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What's your assessment of that round?  
MARTIN KAYMER: Well, I didn't hit as many good tee shots as the first two days.  I missed a few fairways today, and then it's difficult to create birdie chances.  And then I had a couple poor shots on 10 and 11.  Made a couple bogeys there.   
Fought back well with another birdie, and then the putts didn't drop in the end.  So overall, still a decent round.  I think I'm in very good position for tomorrow.   
 Q.  Were course conditions a factor?  That wind got quite strong at one point.  
MARTIN KAYMER: Yeah, the wind was strong from the first tee to maybe 13 or 14, and then it was quite tricky to hit the fairways, because the holes, even when it was downwind, you have to cut so much off of the fairway.  Almost the holes become doglegs.  I found it very difficult today to hit fairways; and therefore, didn't shoot the best score.   
 Q.  You arrive at the golf course and you see some low scores and you're 1-over through four, what do you say to yourself?  
MARTIN KAYMER: Well, I like the back nine a lot.  So I just tried to get something around par standing on the 10th tee, and usually I do well on the back nine.  That was my goal today, as well.  Didn't quite work out, but still, I'm in a very good position over the first two days.   
You always have one of those rounds where you're not quite happy with, so it's okay.   
 Q.  What are you going to do to see this through tomorrow?  
MARTIN KAYMER: I just really enjoy the challenge tomorrow.  I'm not having a lot of pressure of winning the golf tournament.  Always when you lead a golf tournament by three or four shots, you kind of expect yourself to win, and I don't really have that pressure tomorrow.  I know I've done very well here in the past, so I can play very free and very aggressive tomorrow.   
 Q.  Three wins around here; no sense that this course still owes you one?  
MARTIN KAYMER: It doesn't really owe me one.  It was my own fault.  I didn't really get unlucky.  It was just poor golf shots at the wrong time.  It was in the past.  Let's keep it that way.   
 Q.  That even par round, not as flashy as a couple of 66s.  How would you describe it?  Are you happy with it or do you have a sense of disappointment?  
MARTIN KAYMER: Overall, I would call it an okay day.  It's still a very good position to be in for the final round.  Obviously I feed off the first two rounds a little bit, but today, I found it very difficult to play.  I know some of the guys, they shot very good scores.  I found it a bit more difficult to make birdies today, especially getting the fairways and then creating birdie chances.  Level par is not really bad.   
 Q.  Is it easier for you to get out tomorrow with the field so bunched?  
MARTIN KAYMER: A lot can happen tomorrow.  Usually when you lead the tournament three or four shots, you expect yourself to win and other people expect you to win.  I know how it is.  I don't mind it.  I would have loved to be in the lead but it didn't quite work out today.  But again, you know, it's a good position to be in.  I can play very free, very aggressive.   
 Q.  Talk about Hatton and what you know about him, and also if it's you and DJ, is there some sense of trying to get one back?  
MARTIN KAYMER: I don't really know Hatton that well.  I know that he has won I think last year at the Dunhill, which is obviously a big event.  And then having Stenson, Dustin up there, it's going to be -- I think it's great for the tournament.  It's going to be nice if you win that tournament, knowing that you beat one of the best players in the world.  That always gives you a little bit more satisfaction.  So it will be an exciting day no matter what.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT