SAUDI INTERNATIONAL POWERED BY SBIA
January 31, 2020
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  6-under par, what was the difference from yesterday?  
MARTIN KAYMER: Well there, was very little wind in the morning when we played. I played very solid yesterday. Made a couple mistakes yesterday and they got penalized really bad. Today I played solid and didn't make many mistakes, and coming in the back nine, I think I only made 11 putts on the last nine holes.   
So that really helped, and it was a big difference to yesterday.   
 Q.  Nice start to the season, an 8th and 16th, and some really encouraging performances last year. Where are you with your game at the moment towards it being where you really want it to be again?  
MARTIN KAYMER: I feel really close because I have a plan now. The last two, three years, I didn't really have a plan what I wanted to do, where I wanted to be, where my golf should be at one stage.   
And right now, I changed a few things over the winter with my driving because I was never happy the way I drove the ball. It was straight, but it was never long enough to compete, really, on the big events. Because if you see the guys these days, they hit it 300 yards carry and stuff like that, and I need to change something. I did that and I'm very happy the way I drive it right now.   
My irons, they always have been good. And I worked a lot on the short game, and today it really paid off. It's just a matter of having a plan behind what you want to do, and sometimes it sounds really silly, how can you not have a plan, but sometimes you get so stuck in an environment that you forget actually what you are doing. You just go from week-to-week-to-week. I just took a break, reflected a little bit, because I was really not happy where my game was going, and then I changed.   
 Q.  You mentioned that you wanted to hit the ball further; we all want to hit the ball further. How did you do it?  
MARTIN KAYMER: For me it was a matter of ball position. My regular shot was always a low fade, and I can still do this, but I needed an extra gear of maybe ten, 15 yards in the air, so I put the ball further left, which was really weird at the beginning, because, you know, visually, when you look up, you think you aim so far left, so you need to get used to that.   
I took two or three weeks in Florida. I hit a lot of balls into the left forests and trees. But you need to work through it because it's the right thing to do. You need to hit poor shots at the beginning and then slowly you will manage your way around, and you will get used to the vision and stuff like this.   
So I just launch it higher now and I can get it to 300, 310 in the air, which I was never able to do.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT