ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 6, 2016
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MARTIN KAYMER: It's always one of those tournaments that you don't really want to miss out on.  It's all nice when I can play with my father, either my father or my brother.  After last week, obviously you don't really know what you're going to get the first day because you don't play a practice round.  I didn't even make a putt, nothing.  You're just very tired.
But obviously the reason why I'm here is I like the tournament a lot and I can play with him.  So I'm glad that I shot a decent score today.
Q. A lot has been made of the crowd last week at Hazeltine, but would you ever change that in a Ryder Cup, that sort of atmosphere?
MARTIN KAYMER: I don't know what atmosphere you're talking about, if it's just about the people, the way they were cheering us on, then it's all fine.  There are just some idiots in the crowd.  They just go beyond, but it's only five percent of the people.  The rest, 95 percent, they were fine, and I think some players, they had a harder time than others.
I just find it amazing, and I already said it before, that they are standing there with their children in their hand and they say things that you think, that's your child next to you, what role model are you.
So it's a bit shocking sometimes the comments you hear but it is what it is.
Q. Is there any way to change it or make it better for two years' time in France or four years' time in America?
MARTIN KAYMER: With all respect, it doesn't really happen in Europe.  Some guys were saying, it's the same for us when they come to Europe, but it's not true.  There were names that we got called that is -- that you would never, ever put in your mouth in any media or even along your friends.
So I think you just need to escort those people off the property as quickly as possible and we keep on playing golf.
Q. It's your first taste of defeat in a Ryder Cup, but is it that side of the event that hurts a bit more than actually not winning the trophy?
MARTIN KAYMER: I think it leaves maybe a teeny bit of a bitter taste, but as much as we talk about it, sometimes the media, they make it a bit worse.  They ask about it and we comment on it.
But I think first and foremost, we have to focus on the golf.  And the Europeans, this time, we were just not as good as the Americans.  They out-putted us in the end.  They set up the golf course perfectly for them.
France will be a completely different golf course and I think we will have a very, very good chance to get The Ryder Cup back.
Q. How nice is it to be back playing very quickly on the horse, if you like, and shooting a score around arguably the toughest course this week?
MARTIN KAYMER: The good thing is we don't need much practice right now.  We are really, really in it.  It's just a matter of getting used to the speed of the greens and the rest will take care of itself.  It's just one of those tournaments that felt really nice back then in 2010 when I could win here and it's always nice to give it another go and try to win a tournament twice.
We play one of the best golf courses in the U.K. over three days and the major goal is to qualify as a team on Sunday.
Q. What's it like playing out there with your family, your dad, and obviously having that support?
MARTIN KAYMER: I think it's one of the nicest tournaments that we play.  I think I'm very lucky that I could choose my partner.  I played with my brother, with my dad and the other one is always caddying for the other one.  So it's one of those atmosphere that they are very, very helpful, especially after The Ryder Cup.
Q. And going into the next two days, Kingsbarns, St. Andrews, you've won here before, you know what you need to do. What are you looking forward to?
MARTIN KAYMER: To more birdie chances than today, because today is the toughest course that we play.  I'm glad that we got it out of the way with a decent score and now Kingsbarns and St. Andrews, they are more scoring opportunities and that is the goal; that we give our a chance to qualify on Sunday and then a chance for me on Sunday afternoon to win the tournament.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT