THE RYDER CUP
September 30, 2016
Martin Kaymer
Danny Willett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You ran into two very, very impressive Americans right there.  
DANNY WILLETT: Yeah, I think they were seven through 11, me and Martin were two or Lee, and nothing quite going in for us.  You're playing against the 24 best guys in the world pretty much here, if they have a day like that and we have a bit of a stale one, that's going to happen.  It's unfortunate.  But the guys have had a great afternoon by the looks of the boards, so hopefully they can pull through and 5-3 after this morning is probably not bad.   
 Q.  Tough day at the office obviously given the events of this morning, as well.  
MARTIN KAYMER: For me it was a tough day.  Obviously when you get a pick, you try your very best to contribute something to the team.  That didn't really happen today.  But in the end of the day, it's not only about me.  It's about the whole team.  Unfortunately obviously I am trying really hard but the putts didn't really go in for me today.   
So it was nice playing with Danny.  Obviously this is his first Ryder Cup.  I wish I could have done a little better to give him his first point in his first match, but I'm sure tomorrow, you will get your point.   
 Q.  It's been a difficult buildup as we know for your debut in The Ryder Cup.  How did you feel the atmosphere was out there on the course?  One or two shouts from fans, but by and large it seemed pretty acceptable out there.  
DANNY WILLETT: It was anticipated.  It was one of those things, like I said before, coming to America is a tough one.  Just like when the Americans come to Europe; you know, they gave me a little bit more.  And yeah, I think it was exactly what we thought it was going to be.  There was a few little shouts in there, and bits and bobs, but hopefully they are all following me around so the rest of the lads can do their business.  But yeah, by and large, it was probably what we expected.   
 Q.  I know it wasn't the result that you wanted but is there a sense of relief to get that first match out of the way?  
DANNY WILLETT: No, not really relief, getting the first match out of the way at all.  You want to play as much as you can and like Martin said, contribute as many points as possible.  Unfortunately we weren't able to do that this afternoon, but it not about any one person.  It's 12 guys and there's eight guys playing at any one time until Sunday, and this afternoon, looking at the scoreboard, the guys are doing a really good job.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT