MADE IN DENMARK
August 28, 2016
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Finished tied sixth this week, how proud are you of the way you played this week, and indeed through the summer with your consistency?
MARTIN KAYMER: I'm happy with it but not quite satisfied yet.  Obviously we're chasing wins; we're not chasing Top-10s.
I keep saying it, that I'm moving into the right direction.  But the end of the day, real satisfaction only comes when you have to hold a speech after Sunday afternoon.  So I've put myself in good positions but there's not quite enough there yet to win.  But still a few tournaments left this year.
Q. Last counting week this was before The Ryder Cup gets selected on Thursday and you're looking for a potential wild card.  Do you think you're looking pretty good and you've done enough?
MARTIN KAYMER: I think I've done as much as I can.  In the end of the day, we can speculate as much as we want.  Darren, he needs to make a decision and he will make it on Monday or Tuesday and then we will know more.  But it would be another great experience of my golfing career, and to play four Ryder Cups in a row would be amazing.
Q. A word for Thomas Pieters who you played with today.
MARTIN KAYMER: Well, if I would be the captain, he would be my pick, that's for sure, because he brings something special to the team.  He hits the ball far and he's very good on short game and obviously he proved that he can play under pressure very well, and he's a nice guy.  So if I would be the captain -- fortunately I'm not because it's a tough decision, but I would pick Thomas for sure.
Q. And maybe you get a pick, he gets a pick and you could play together?
MARTIN KAYMER: I would like that.
Q. Your thoughts on how the week's gone?
MARTIN KAYMER: I gave myself enough chances.  I think these days, you've got to play very consistent from the first day on, and I think I missed a few chances on Thursday and Friday, especially on the greens.  And therefore, it wasn't quite enough unfortunately but I'm very happy the way I played.  I had a lot of Top-10s the last few weeks, so it's all good.
Q. Ryder Cup picks coming up this week; you must be confident you've done enough to feature in the next Ryder Cup?
MARTIN KAYMER: I've done as much as I could.  But at the end of the day the only real satisfaction comes from winning and I haven't quite done that.  I had a lot of Top-10s but in the end of the day, we're not here to finish Top-10.  And Darren, he will make the decision in a few days and then we will know more.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT