PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
July 29, 2016
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Tell us about your round.  
MARTIN KAYMER: I started not the way I wanted, to be honest, even though it was very tough today.  I started with a couple of bogeys the first three holes.  I knew I didn't need to worry too much.  I hit the ball fairly solid.  It was just a matter of time that I create birdie chances, and they came.  I couldn't make all of them, obviously, but in the end it was very important for me to finish the way I did, to still shoot under par round or under those conditions because the golf course was definitely a little bit harder to play today.   
 Q.  (No microphone)?  
MARTIN KAYMER: I think I placed myself in a very good spot.  Who knows where the leader is going to be by the end of the day.  I shot a good score yesterday, a very good round today.  So it's a good position to be in in a major championship.   
 Q.  How do you feel today with the rain delay, the conditions today and the whole mindset?  
MARTIN KAYMER: Mindset was I learned by now you can't -- sometimes it's difficult to understand some decisions but you can't change it as a player.  In the past I got a little upset about it because it was difficult to understand.  Now I just deal with it.  My caddie gets more upset than me.  It's nothing we can do.  We just need to -- as long as you move, as long as you don't stand still for half an hour, because they said that we should stay in position.  I moved around quite a bit to keep the body the way it was.  If we would have gone in, it would have been fine also.  It's a little bit more challenging, but I think the experience comes out in that situation.   
 Q.  Were you surprised that they had you tee off (no microphone)?  
MARTIN KAYMER: It's something that you think about it, why they did that, because there's plenty of daylight today.  I think we could have all started by 9 o'clock or so and we would have been all fine.  It would have been also a little bit more fair for the guys who played at 7:00 or whenever the first tee time was.  They almost played nine holes in the rain.  Now it's perfect to play golf.  So to keep it really fair, I think the guys who played even now or earlier than me, I think that has a little bit of a disadvantage.   
 Q.  What would it mean to you at your stage to win?  
MARTIN KAYMER: For sure I would make the Ryder Cup team, which would be huge.  I really would love to be part of that.  On the other hand, of course you would like to win all four majors, but in the end of the day if you can keep collecting experiences in major championships, just putting yourself in position to have a chance to win, if you win it or not obviously it makes a difference in terms of results, but I think you would gain a lot of experience again because those are situations that you can't really plan or practice.  But winning one of those, I know how much satisfaction it gives you.  It's massive.  That's the ultimate that we play for.   
 Q.  You talked about playing the last few weeks.  What seemed to come together this week that maybe hadn't been there?  
MARTIN KAYMER: I'm a little bit more patient.  I don't force the putts or I don't go that frustrated if I don't make the birdie putts because I played really well the last two, three months.  But I couldn't really make the putts and it was quite frustrating that you always think I should have been lower score, I should have shot this and that.  That doesn't -- no one cares about that.  In the end of the day, eye shouldn't care about it either.  You can do your best and.   
I just kept telling myself you are trying your very, very best.  That is in the end all I can do.  Trying your very best in a calm way, without forcing, that is pretty much the way you have got to play golf.  That's the way I play my best.  I need to change that little -- it's more like a wording in your mind what you need to change.   
 Q.  The rain, how did that affect conditions out there?  
MARTIN KAYMER: You could be very aggressive with the mid irons and even some of the long irons.  The golf course played very long, especially the front nine.  Yesterday the third hole, I hit a gap wedge into the green.  Today it was a full 3-iron and I didn't even get there.  So some of those holes played a lot longer.  They are long in general.   
On the other hand, you have 5 and 6, those are fairly long holes and they became a little bit shorter today.  But then the last two holes today, the two par-5s, in general, it played longer, but I wouldn't say more difficult because the greens, they were slower so you could be more aggressive.   
 Q.  What time did you arrive today?  What were the conditions, was it range?  
MARTIN KAYMER: It was raining pretty much since I woke up.  I woke up at 4:45 and it was raining until the third hole.  It was a pain to get ready in the rain and it's hard.  But in the end, I just kept saying to myself you playing one of greatest tournaments of the year and you are playing well.  You are in a great position.  I just tried to make the best out of the day.  If it's 2 or 3-over par, it is what it is.  Fortunately, the weather turned and I shot under par in the end.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT