THE 145TH OPEN
July 14, 2016
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MARTIN KAYMER: Get the momentum going and I started on 6 with that birdie, and followed up with another birdie on 8, and then you can really get that round going.  Because, you know, I think the guys in the morning, they had the first nine that played a little shorter for them and we had more crosswind.  So it actually took the pressure away of shooting 3- or 4-under the first nine.   
But I still did under a little bit more difficult conditions.  So it was a nice, nice stretch I played there.   
 Q.  (Inaudible).  
MARTIN KAYMER: Yeah, we had a few lip-outs here and there.  But on the other end I made a couple of very nice up-and-downs.  I was in the rough a couple times too from the tee, and I made par, even sometimes a birdie.  So I'd rather focus on the good things that happened than the things that did not go in.   
 Q.  (Inaudible).  
MARTIN KAYMER: Well, a chance of winning is very, very early.  It's only a quarter of a long marathon that we went today.  It's a good start.  It's a very good start.  But tomorrow we'll see how the weather will turn out and then play another good round.  That's all you can do.   
You know, the goal is always to just place yourself until Sunday.  Place yourself somewhere that you have a chance, and that's the same goal this week.   
 Q.  You talked about enjoying your golf more recently.  You looked like you were enjoying it today.  Did you feel like you were mentally in the right place and everything has come together?  
MARTIN KAYMER: Yeah, I played very calm.  There's not much stress.  In March, April, May I thought I was playing really well, but I couldn't get good scores on the scorecard.  Then when you get asked about it, you obviously can tell the truth but the reporter or whoever, you can feel doesn't really believe it because he sees the scores and you just want to prove it to yourself that you actually do play better golf and the result shows.  And I think that turned around a little bit the last -- pretty much since I came back to Europe and played the Irish Open.  From then on I really enjoyed playing golf more.  So we'll see how far that summer can take me.   
 Q.  Has coming back and playing in Europe made a difference to you?  
MARTIN KAYMER: I think when you're an American you feel more comfortable in America.  As a European, I love playing in Europe because every week is very different and every course that we play I enjoy the different cultures.  You can drive to some tournaments.  For me, that is just the way I have to schedule my newt few years a little more like.  It took me ten years not to figure it out, but to understand where is the best place for me to play my best golf.   
Obviously I had huge success in America, and I love playing in America.  But not all year long because I'm from Europe, and that's why I enjoy playing in Europe a lot.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT