AMUNDI OPEN DE FRANCE
October 18, 2019
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How do you compare the 69 to yesterday's 68 and what's pleased you most out of those two days?  
MARTIN KAYMER: I hit many fairways. My driving became a lot better this week. I struggled the last couple week the I played. If you don't hit fairways, it's very difficult.   
The last two days, I hit many fairways and hit good iron shots but unfortunately today I missed 3-putts within three feet. That's what happens on greens like this when they don't cut them. I was very patient and I accepted it very well. It is what it is. So I'm very proud of the whole process.   
 Q.  What's the biggest challenge of playing this golf course in this time of year in these conditions because we usually play at the summer and sometimes it's firm and bouncy, but it's not like this?  
MARTIN KAYMER: The golf course plays a little longer than the summer, but overall, just hit one club more from the tee and you're fine. Certain holes, they play very different because you can be very aggressive because there's very little rough.   
For example, the sixth hole was a very short par 4 and you used to hit 2-iron and maybe pitching wedge, 9-iron to the green and now you just hit driver, and even if you hit it in the rough, you have a chance to get it on the green. The approach of play is a little different; you can play very aggressive.   
 Q.  You have a wonderful record on this golf course, a win in 2009 and five other Top 10s. What is it about this place that brings the best out of Martin Kaymer?  
MARTIN KAYMER: I don't feel pressure of shooting 5- or 6-under par. Usually we play those golf courses these days where it becomes almost a putting competition.   
A golf course like this, if you shoot 1- or 2-under par, it's a good round and I like that way of thinking, when you need to hit good golf shots, bad golf shots, you will get big penalties for that.   
You need to play quality golf, and then you get rewarded, not walk away with three or four. I think it's a very fair golf course where you need to hit brave golf shots and hit many fairways.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT