ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 8, 2016
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What are your thoughts, how different was it out there today compared to day one?  
MARTIN KAYMER: Yesterday was pretty much trying to 2-putt every hole, because it was very, very hard to make any putts.  Trying to stay in the tournament, that was the main goal yesterday.   
Today, you could be a little more aggressive, even though the greens were very, very slow, so you had to adjust during play to really hit the ball that it gets to the hole.  But now, the wind dropped down, so it probably plays two or three shots easier than yesterday.   
 Q.  Do you get any more satisfaction by the fact that you held things together, showed such resilience on day one?  
MARTIN KAYMER: Yeah, it's always nice when you don't shoot yourself out of the tournament, and because of the mental error, it can be very, very frustrating when you miss a few putts within four or five feet, and the gust takes it, there's nothing you can do.  It's more like a mental effort than really playing, and I think I handled it very well yesterday by shooting level par.   
Today I thought I had a low round in me.  Didn't make many putts.  So I need a low one tomorrow or Sunday.   
 Q.  You're in a nice position, though.  
MARTIN KAYMER: Yeah, I'm in a nice position right now, but right now I think it's easier now to play than we played in the morning.  Hopefully I'm not too many shots behind.  But like what I said, I think I have a low round in me.   
 Q.  The par 5, sixth, does that encapsulate links golf, because you got the misfortune and still ended up with a lovely birdie out of it.  
MARTIN KAYMER: I hit driver in the fairway to get there in two, because I really don't like laying up on par 5s.  Hit a very nice drive from the fairway.  Got a decent lie in the bunker.  There was so much sand in the bunker that I didn't really predict it well, and then made the putt.   
And then other holes, I think I had two or three 3-putts today from doable distances, but that's how golf is.  I think sometimes we get more unlucky than lucky.  In that case, what happened on 6, it was what I needed.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT