100TH OPEN DE FRANCE
July 2, 2016
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You've played a lot of terrific rounds on this course.  How good was today's 68?  
MARTIN KAYMER: Well, combined yesterday and today was very solid.  Didn't make many mistakes.  Hit a couple good par saves yesterday and today that really kept the round going.  A big bonus on 14, the par 5.  I holed a bunker shot for eagle.  If things like this happen, it's massive in a tournament like this.   
 Q.  A win and four Top-10s at this particular golf course, what do you think is the most important factor in your game that makes you so successful here?  
MARTIN KAYMER: I don't have many tee shots that I don't like.  Sometimes you have a golf course where you have three or four tees where you think, I don't know what to hit here; or if the wind is from the wrong direction and you really struggle.  Those holes, those are the ones that cost you a few shots bogeys, double-bogeys.   
And I don't really have many tee shots here that I don't like.  Even the opposite; that I really enjoy hitting.  It's a very positive attitude once I step on the first tee.   
 Q.  Is this round of 68 every bit as satisfying as the second one was?  
MARTIN KAYMER: Yeah, today was very good.  Yesterday brought me over the cut, even into a good position for the weekend.  Today was massive in terms of giving myself a chance of finishing in the top three tomorrow.   
The leaders, they are quite far away.  They are 9-under par now.  So in the last few holes, they are doable, they are not easy, but they are doable because the pin positions, they are not very close to the water, especially on 16, the par 3.   
So I expect myself to be six, seven shots back, and it's a long shot tomorrow, but at least through yesterday and today, put me in a good position.   
 Q.  And it's that eagle on the way home, in particular, that's given you this chance, isn't it; presumably that enables you to puff your chest out a little.  
MARTIN KAYMER: They put the tee forward on 14 and you know that you get home in two, but I missed my tee shot a little bit into the rough, and I still went for the green because I don't really like laying up on par 5s.   
Gave myself a tricky bunker shot from 35, 40 metres.  It's a massive bonus to hole one of those.  I was hoping for four, thinking about making probably five, and all of a sudden you have three.  But usually it's the other way around; you get the big numbers without expecting it on the scorecard.  That brought me really back into the tournament, yeah.   
 Q.  Have you got a sense of what you might need tomorrow?  
MARTIN KAYMER: I don't know if I need the course record that I played a few years back, which was 9-under par.  I don't really think 12-under will be necessary to win, but I think something 9- or 10-under.  So I think I need 6-, 7-under par tomorrow in order to have some kind of a chance.   
But that's always what you think; usually you don't need to go that low.  So I just try to enjoy tomorrow, enjoy playing one of my favorite golf courses on The European Tour.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT