100TH OPEN DE FRANCE
June 29, 2016
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Your thoughts on still playing in the Olympics?
MARTIN KAYMER: -- they have only sometimes a second time to make that happen for them.  So I think it's not only for your country.  It's more about the pride and the hard work that other athletes put in there, as well.  Coming from your country, you all work as one team -- it's a little bit like The Ryder Cup, but a lot bigger, and there's a lot more heart with it.
You know, Ryder Cup is a lot of passion and a lot of heart, but if you play for your country, and you see the people from your country sitting next to you having lunch, getting prepared for the Olympic Games, for their moment, that they prepared for four years; so that's super inspiring.
Q. Are there any sports you'd like to see yourself when you're down there?
MARTIN KAYMER: Not any particular one.  Women's beach ball would be nice.  But in general, I have no idea about the Olympic Games.  I've never been, so I don't know how it's going to be logistic-wise; if we are going to get tickets, or if not -- I know when our tournament; but I don't really know how far the village is from the golf.  I don't know those things.  I will make it very spontaneous.
First of all, I try to make sure to feel as comfortable as possible to be prepared on Thursday morning, because it will be overwhelming, and with the Opening Ceremony, as well.
And talking about the Opening Ceremony, it's already huge to be part of that and walking there.  I don't know how my chances are to carry the flag, but it would be massive.  I mean, what a pleasure that would be.
So all those things, you know, I think it takes a lot of time to get used to those thoughts and the atmosphere.  I'm not worried about the other sports.  I need to figure out my own sport first.
Q. When we asked you about the Olympics in January, you were very keen then.  With all of the other players withdrawing, has that given you pause for thought at all, and Zika and security and all that?
MARTIN KAYMER: In a selfish way, I'm happy that they pulled out, it's less competition.  But in the bigger picture, if you think about golf, there were a lot of people that were working so hard to get golf into the Olympic Games, from all different countries, and now the best players of their countries, they all pull out.
Now I read this morning that Jordan Spieth is thinking about if it's worth it to go; that was the headline.  So it's very sad for me, who is passionate about the Olympic Games, but in the end of the day, if it makes it easier for me to become a Gold Medal winner, I'm fine with it.
But if you see the bigger picture in the Olympics, do we be in the Olympic Games in eight years' time again; if no one goes this year and very little go in four years, I think the chances that we are going to compete then, it's going to be slimmer.
Q. What do you think about this tournament?
MARTIN KAYMER: Well, The Open de France, obviously it's the 100th anniversary now.  It's a massive tournament for us on The European Tour.  It's a lot to play for this week.
For me, it has a special meaning because I've won here in the past.  The fans have always been very, very kind and very supportive to me.  I really enjoying playing a challenging golf course.  It's not one of those courses where you need to shoot 20-under par.  You really need to play good golf and it's not a putting competition.  Overall, I think it will be a very successful week, especially with that feel that we have this week.
Q. Just going on your game itself, how would you sum up the season so far?  There's been a couple of decent performances recently.
MARTIN KAYMER: Yeah, I'm fine with the results, because I know why things worked out the way they did.  Now fortunately I found a good rhythm in my game, and it's just a matter of time that I will be there where I want to be.  I think it's a good time to peak now.  It will help if there are massive tournaments coming up, and showing some signs, as well, for The Ryder Cup would help.  Because obviously you can never really rely on a wild card, and I don't want to be relying on that.  I would rather play my way into the team.
But I'm focusing more on the next three weeks.  Those are golf courses that I like.  Those are golf courses or golf tournaments that I won in the past.  I won this one, I won The Scottish Open; not the British Open, but I would like to add that one.
So it's very exciting.  I'm really, really looking forward to it, because I believe I could do well.  But you never know if it happens when you really want it.  I will try to stay patient and just wait for it, and if it happens, it happens; and if not, maybe a little bit later in the year.
PAUL SYMES: Thanks again, Martin.  Have a great week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT