DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 19, 2015
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Thoughts on a lovely start with a 66 to begin?
MARTIN KAYMER: I played really solid.  I didn't make many mistakes really.  I think I got a little unlucky on the par 3 where I hit it in the water on the sixth hole.  Got a little wind of gust there, or the other way around, a gust of wind, but I saved bogey.  I gave myself a lot of chances and I putted really well, so overall it was a very, very good round.
Q. Good to be back in this part of the world?
MARTIN KAYMER: Well, we all know this is one of my favourite places where The European Tour goes; Abu Dhabi, Dubai, seems like I do well here usually and I've had great success in the past, whether it's in Abu Dhabi winning a tournament, winning The European Tour rankings here in 2010.  So for me coming to this part of the world is always a great pleasure.
Q. You've been traveling the world of late and it's been relatively quiet by your standards, so how are you feeling about your form?  How positive are you?
MARTIN KAYMER: Well, I was playing decent the last few weeks and months, but I had a couple holes here and there that really ruined my result for the week.  Two tournaments in China, I had twice a 9, so that's tough to recover from that.  Overall, playing good enough to compete.  Today I thought I didn't make any special, so that's always a good sign.
Q. Coming into this event, knowing it is the season-ender, do you say one more determined push; there's so much to play for during this week?
MARTIN KAYMER: Well, to be honest, it doesn't really feel like the end of the season for me, because I still feel physically fairly fit.  I'm really looking forward to play golf, even after playing two or three weeks in a row.  I was really looking forward to play the Pro-Am, get around and see how the golf course is.  And I was very excited to play this morning.
So for me, we can keep going.  And I'm going to play another two in South Africa and Thailand, so it's not quite the end yet.
Q. Is that a change?  Is that a surprise for you?  Because most players tend to feel slightly jaded when they come in here and just have to draw on all their reserves.
MARTIN KAYMER: Well, I think I've done, fitness-wise, I've done a very good job this year, especially after the Masters.  I adjusted a little bit and I ate fairly healthy.  So if you put all this in consideration, and I slept a lot, so I think that that just makes a difference in the end.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT