PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 14, 2015
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What are your thoughts returning to a place where you certainly had some very good round in the past?  
MARTIN KAYMER: Yeah, I think it was a few years back, I shot a very low one here.  So I enjoy that golf course.  It's one of those where when you hit the fairway, you have a lot of chances so you need to be very patient.  Once you hit it in the rough, it can get very tricky but you need to take advantage of the par 5s.  Because if you hit the fairways there, then you have only a long iron into the green or on the fifth hole, you have a wood into the green but the rest is very playable.  You just need to hit the fairways.   
 Q.  How did you get on in the Pro-Am?  I've heard the rough is up a bit more than it has been on other occasions?  
MARTIN KAYMER: It was raining a lot on the week.  I think they were not expecting it would grow that much so they got a couple inches more than usually, but I enjoy that.  It makes it tougher and it's never really a putting competition here.  There for what I said, it's even more important to hit the fairways and maybe even take a club less from the tee in order to avoid the rough.   
 Q.  I appreciate it's still work for you, is this a fairly relaxed week?  It always seems to be with everything that's going on around it?  
MARTIN KAYMER: It's nice when you have a golf course or a venue where you can stay pretty much on the golf course.  They have very nice rooms here, good food, good golf course, everything is very close.  You don't need to walk far or drive.  In the evenings you can go to the marina, have dinners there.  So it's a very pleasant week.   
 Q.  You seem to be enjoying your spell back on The European Tour?  
MARTIN KAYMER: Yeah, it's nice to stay home and actually get home on Sunday night and sleep in your own bed, maybe for one or two nights, even though you played two or three weeks in a row, it breaks it up a little bit and I did miss it, and the last month and a half or so, it's been very good.   
 Q.  Hope I'm not prying too much but you have just come back from the United States for other reasons.  
MARTIN KAYMER: Yeah, a friend of mine, he got married in Los Angeles, so I flew there on Friday.  Arrived Friday afternoon, stayed Saturday for the wedding and flew out Sunday again and arrived here Monday.  It was a tough one, especially last week.  I had three sponsor days and then Friday obviously I went to L.A.  It's been a long and tiring week but I slept fairly well last night and we have one more night to go until I have to tee it up tomorrow.  And it's a golf course that I enjoy to play, so with some patience, I think I can do well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT