WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 20, 2015
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. After a great positive PGA Championship Martin Kaymer brings some of the mojo to North Carolina. Good performance out there.
MARTIN KAYMER: Solid. I think I missed only one green and was my 18th hole. I think it was solid. I just didn't make many mistakes today therefore make a couple long putts and you can shoot a low score. That's what I did.

Q. Your aggressiveness on a soft golf course like this today.
MARTIN KAYMER: The wetness and the ball won't spin that much, the 6-iron, 5-irons go three, four feet. If you hit the ball well you can be very aggressive even though they put the pins in some sections, you get to it somehow. Today was a very good day.

Q. Finally I want you to speak about the energy that's here. Globally you play everywhere. When Tiger Woods plays an event the very first time the fans here reacting in a positive way. What was it like from your perspective one group behind you?
MARTIN KAYMER: Difficult. You know, it was great for the town here and especially for the golf tournament because it's a fantastic golf course and what he put together here. Tiger plays, it brings a lot more attention. Something different as well. Sometimes you think you can win here with the best player in the world, at least in my era when I played golf it means a tiny bit more. It's not easy to play with him or to play behind him or in front of him. It's something you need to adjust to but we all know about it so it's okay to do.

Q. Martin, other than the finish at 9, I thought you played a really nice round of golf today. 25, 22, 17, 18 footers. Your thoughts on how you played today.
MARTIN KAYMER: I played well for 17 holes. 18 was shocking. (Inaudible). I didn't miss many greens. I enjoyed myself. One of those courses where you hit fairways and it's good.

Q. You made a lot of long putts, though. Is that something you felt as you got on to the golf course today. How has the putting coming in and when they start dropping they comes in droves.
MARTIN KAYMER: Absolutely. The greens are good. (Inaudible). My stroke very good this morning on the putting green already. I just need to get it to the hole. That's pretty much the goal. The beginning, it's worked out very well.

Q. 149th in the FedExCup standings coming into this event today. What are your thoughts here because you got to make a big jump over a bunch of guys? 
Obviously you push to get to the weekend and got to move up from there. You're obviously off to a good start.
MARTIN KAYMER: That number is just the outcome or the result. I don't think that much about making it to New York. It's more like I need to take care of the golf club first and see with the outcome. If I make it there, fine. Unfortunately, I'll have to go back to Europe if I don't make it. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT