ALSTOM OPEN DE FRANCE
July 4, 2015
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Your third consecutive round of 69.   Give us the verdict on this one?
MARTIN KAYMER:   I probably played better than the first two days but the putter was fairly cold today.   Didn't make any putts the first ten 12, holes but I gave myself many, many chances, so I have to build up on that.
It was one of those things today, you have chances after chance and you don't make them, and most of the time, a bogey comes.   I said to Craig, we have to get that momentum on the right side.   We need to make a birdie to change the momentum.   Let's not go to a negative. 
Fortunately I hit it to a couple feet that I couldn't miss it anymore and brought it home well.   A couple flyers here and there but that's fine. 

Q.   Thoughts on tomorrow?   A chance to go out and win again on a course that is one of your very favourites. 
MARTIN KAYMER:   I think I'm four behind, which is okay.   I've shot low rounds on that golf course before.   If I play the same way and the putter is the same way as the first two days, then I have a chance.   Could have been a lot lower round today.

Q.   A lot of players shot lower today.   Was the course different?
MARTIN KAYMER:   There was less wind and I think they put a few tee boxes forward.   The wind is always a huge factor and if the wind doesn't blow as much, then you can score.

Q.   Did you enjoy that you were back involved in a competitive end of a tournament? 
MARTIN KAYMER:   It's nice to be in one of the last few groups.   By the end of the day, or in my case here, I really enjoy playing a golf course, doesn't really matter on what position I am‑‑ obviously it helps when you know you might have a chance on the last day. 

Q.   Do you change your approach or attitude, the way the game is going on, your concentration levels? 
MARTIN KAYMER:   It was a big confidence boost the last three days that I played golf, especially now going into the Open in a couple of weeks.   If I can play the same way I played today and the putter is the way it was the first two days, then I think I might have a chance tomorrow.

Q.   This course does set you up nicely for an Open Championship?
MARTIN KAYMER:   The golf course here plays fast and firm so it's a good preparation for The Open.   That's why I play every year here. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT