BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 19, 2015
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  SARAH GWYNN:   Martin, welcome.   Thank you for joining us.   Your first time back in Europe for a while.   Just describe how that feels.  
MARTIN KAYMER:   Yeah, it's been a long time.   Obviously I played a couple tournaments in the Middle East, in Abu Dhabi and Dubai.   But the last time that I was back in Europe, it was probably the Alfred Dunhill.   
So sometimes it's a shame that we play that little in Europe, but obviously when you play on both tours, the big events, they are in America when it comes down to World Ranking points and status of the tournament.   Therefore, it's even nicer to come back here feeling really like home.   Even though it's not my home country, but it does feel where you feel the most comfortable.   
I think it's normal, when you are in America, you like to play in America and as a European, you like to come here, and especially to the home of The European Tour.  
SARAH GWYNN:   We're getting towards an important part of the season.   How does your game feel heading into that part?   
MARTIN KAYMER:   It's a strange one right now.   I practiced a lot in February and March, and just to prepare for the Masters and get ready for the Masters, and I probably did a little too much.   I probably didn't rest my body as much as I should, and that's what I felt at the Masters, I entered the week and I was very, very tired without even playing yet.   It was not the best way.   But it was an experience again and another way to learn maybe for the future all that I should do different.   
The last couple weeks I played good.   Obviously a couple things here and there but that's normal.   I said to my caddie yesterday, I'm really excited about the next few weeks and months, because I know things, they will fall into place sooner or later, and when you practise hard, it's almost not avoidable to have success.   So it will happen.   It's just a matter of being patient, but that's sometimes for athletes very difficult.   
   
 Q.   Obviously last year you had those two really stand‑out performances at The Players and then the U.S. Open.   When you are having the kind of season that you are now, is it a process of trying to re‑tap into what you had there, or is life just such a progression that that's not possible?   What's your sort of mind‑set?   
MARTIN KAYMER:   Well, that's a general question about life I guess.   You know, I'm not really a fan of comparing myself to what happened last year.   Especially the way things happened, it's very difficult to do it again.   To win two of the biggest events that we play all year, the way I won them, is very difficult to do it twice.   Once is tough; twice is difficult, very difficult.   
So I just see it more as a learning process, what happened last year and try to improve from that.   And the improvement, sometimes when you want to improve things, it's very difficult to do, because you need to try different things again; how can I become better in this.   
And I know I've done this and that last year, or two or three years ago when I won certain things, but how can I become even better.   And then you try things and you become a little bit worse.   
So then you think, okay, maybe that doesn't work, maybe you try something else.   So it's not so much trying to get where you were, trying to become better, and that's the tricky part sometimes and that will take some time.   But that's why we play golf, you know, we have a long career that we can try.   
   
 Q.   On a different subject, as someone who straddles both tours, The European Tour is going through some changes, a new Chief Executive is coming in.   What would be the first thing for you to have on his table to consider perhaps changing when he gets into position?   
MARTIN KAYMER:   The first thing I would like to see this tournament, because it's the most important tournament that we play on The European Tour, I would like to see this playing later in the year.   
The only thing that the tournament struggles with is the greens every year.   It's very difficult I think for the green keeper to make the greens as good as they can be.   And talking to a few members, they said, as well, if you come here in six weeks, the greens are perfect.   So that would be the first thing that I would change.   Because, you know, there are possibilities.  
Yeah, I think it's going to be difficult to plan around U.S. Open and the British Open and those things, but for such a big event, you should get the best date, and for us players, it would be even more fun to play that golf course.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT