THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 8, 2015
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  MARTIN KAYMER: It wasn't much different this morning.  Especially the first nine that we played.  I was hoping for a little bit less wind, but it didn't really happen.  So the back nine it was very difficult.  The front nine, they were okay, because after nine holes you get used to it a little bit.  But the back nine we really, they were really tough to play today.   Q.  You were really grinding out there, 72, at 3-under, what do you think now about your chances for the weekend?  MARTIN KAYMER: Well, the weekend I just need to hit the fairways.  I didn't hit the fairways the front nine that we played.  The back nine I did hit the fairways and I shot 3-under par.  So it's just a matter of doing that.   Q.  The leaders haven't gotten too far away, you can still see them.  MARTIN KAYMER: I said to my caddie, as long as we stay in red numbers, we still have a chance for the weekend, and that was the goal after the front nine.   Q.  Was it more about the course or more about your game or a little bit of both that you're, early on, you're challenging for the lead and then right in the middle it almost looks like you're in trouble, and then you're back to steadying yourself?  MARTIN KAYMER: I didn't really swing it well the first nine.  I didn't swing it well with the driver anyway.  So I missed a lot of fairways. Then, with those pin positions and the wind, it's very difficult to get it on the greens sometimes.  But I could manage that to get on the green, but then I 3-putted.  I had three, 3-putts on the front nine, on the back nine here. The greens are a little bit faster than yesterday.  Obviously, on fresh greens, they were a little bit firmer and less grass where it hasn't grown yet, like yesterday afternoon.  So that was main problem.  It took me nine holes to get used to that.   Q.  Were you worried coming off 18?  MARTIN KAYMER: Not worried, I just needed to figure out how can I hit fairways, because if I hit fairways, I can make birdies, because my irons, I hit them well, I just need to place my ball in the fairway. So I was worried about, how can I get that thing on the fairway.  Fortunately, I slowed down my swing a little bit to have a little bit more control and then I created birdie chances.   Q.  How challenging is the tee shot on 18 today?  MARTIN KAYMER: Well, it's one of those shots you stand up, you have to commit to it and hit it.  There are no bail outs.  Even if you try to hit it a little bit right, you still struggle to make par.  It's a beautiful hole, it's a great hole.  It's one of those things you commit and hit it.  It's nice.   Q.  Did you commit?  MARTIN KAYMER: I did.  It didn't work out, but. (Laughter.)  I will commit tomorrow again.   Q.  Is there confidence, momentum based on how you played that last nine holes?  MARTIN KAYMER: Yeah, I mean what I said, I changed a couple of things on the back nine, I was swinging it fairly fast on the front nine, not sure why, and then it's very difficult to put the club into place.  And I -- driving was shocking the front nine.  But then it came back and I hit great drives on the back nine, so it's a good momentum that I can build on.   Q.  It looked like all three of you guys were riding this roller coaster up-and-down?  MARTIN KAYMER: We all struggled, especially the first nine.  No one was really playing well.  It was playing tough, I must say, because we were expecting a little bit less wind in the morning, but that didn't happen, so it was tough to play.  And we didn't, we were not on our A games in the morning.  And then the golf courses becomes very tricky.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT