THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 7, 2015
Martin Kaymer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Talk about your round today.  MARTIN KAYMER: The back nine was a little bit tricky today.  Made a couple of bad shots on -- not bad shots, but maybe the club selection I was a little bit off on the par-3, 13 and then the par-4, 14. Still hit good shots, but it was so tricky to judge the wind.  But overall, especially with that finish, birdieing 16, when you hit the fairway, you should make four. But the birdie on 17, that was definitely -- I wouldn't say bonus, but it was a nice, nice two.  Yeah, you take two there every single day.   Q.  How tough is it playing out there with the wind right now?  MARTIN KAYMER: Well, I looked at the forecast this morning and it said the wind should die down in the afternoon.  I thought, oh, that's sweet.  Last four or five holes, they're never really the easiest, but when the wind dies down, okay, maybe we can make a couple birdies coming in. But that was not the case, it was blowing the whole day, and that made it really difficult.  Therefore, to finish 3-under par is a very good score.   Q.  You seem to get paired with Tiger a good bit.  I think you were at the Bridgestone last year.  Wondering if you have any thoughts on how he looks, given all that he's gone through.  MARTIN KAYMER: How Tiger looks?  Well, I always enjoy playing with him, because it's a pleasure to play with the best player who ever played the game in my era.  I don't know how Jack Nicklaus, Gary Player, Arnold Palmer those guys played, it was a different era, I never saw them live. But playing with him, it's always special and then obviously it's never easy playing with him either, because of all the people, because of a little bit of distractions here and there, but overall, if he's in a better spot or not, I don't know.  I won't be speculating.   Q.  Is it always good to get the first round out of the way as defending champion?  MARTIN KAYMER: Yeah, a lot of people said that they kind of put it in a negative light if you are the defending champion.  I think it's positive.  I think it's a great thing.  Because you have done well here in the past, you always can carry over a little bit more from momentum from last year.  I see very many positives. A lot of people ask me if I feel more pressure, but it's the complete opposite.  I enjoy playing those golf courses a lot.  Pete Dye, I think he's doing great golf courses.  I have done well on Whistling Straights, he did that, and then obviously here. So, I just enjoy playing tough golf courses and it happens that I'm the defending champion here, so it's, I think it's a good thing.   Q.  That crystal trophy that you had in front of you the other day, do you have a replica of that?  MARTIN KAYMER: No, not yet I'll order one though.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT