CHINA OPEN
October 8, 2016
Johanna Konta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
J. KONTA/M. Keys   
7-6, 4-6, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How do you feel about your performance?  In the third set you were broken, and how did you break back in that set?  
JOHANNA KONTA: Yeah, no, I think it was really important for me to just really focus on the game at hand because she's such a big ball-striker that I knew there were going to be games where I wouldn't have much say in.   
Even if I got broken, I just felt I needed to keep trying every single point.  I really worked to get some opportunities, and worked even harder to take some.   
 Q.  I know you dropped the second set, but how important was it for you to get that break back and put a little bit of pressure on her as she tried to serve out the second set?  Looked like you lost a little bit of your way after you slipped and fell on the court.  
JOHANNA KONTA: Yeah, definitely the momentum shifted in her favor, for sure.  I think she also played two good games.  I think I dropped my level a bit.   
It was definitely important for me to, yeah, keep pushing on even though it was 5-2.  There wasn't much in it for it to go back to 5-All.   
Yeah, against any player, but especially the top players in the world, you've got to keep fighting every single point because otherwise things can go very quickly.   
 Q.  Now that you're entering the top 10 for the first time, what are your thoughts about that?  
JOHANNA KONTA: Yeah, it's pretty cool.  But, yeah -- actually I don't know.  I don't know.   
I think because I'm so immersed in this tournament still, it's obviously something that's really humbling and really nice to hear.  But, you know, I work my hardest to be able to go into the latter stages of every tournament I play.  To be able to play on the Sunday here, I think that's what I'm most looking forward to.  Yeah, really giving my best tomorrow and see where that takes me.   
 Q.  You've played tiebreaks particularly well this season, something like 12-2.  You won a big one today.  What is not the secret, but how have you learned to improve your play in tiebreaks?  What is the key for you?  
JOHANNA KONTA: I think, honestly, I really try to simplify things when it comes to tiebreaks.  Also I generally do my best not to overthink things either in terms of not to try to play any differently than the rest of the match.   
I definitely do my best to make it so that if I am going to lose the tiebreak, that my opponent has to beat me as much as possible.  I think I really try to apply myself to every single point.   
Yeah, honestly I don't know.  I don't think there's any secret.  I really am just applying myself the same way I do in the rest of the match.   
 Q.  Seventh top-10 win for the season.  Talk about that.  The success you've been able to get against the top-10 players, and obviously now becoming one yourself, how important is that to you?  What does that say about your season?  
JOHANNA KONTA: I mean, obviously, yeah, that's a wonderful thing to see, to have that stat against the top 10.  But I think it's more my application against every player I play.  I think that's what's been able to give me the consistency that I've had and what I continue to work towards to be able to have a long and healthy career.   
I don't necessarily separate top-10 wins from my other wins.  But, again, I am very happy to have been involved in the match that I was involved in today.  I think I'll be able to take a lot from that.   
Yeah, so I'm really happy that I get to play tomorrow.   
 Q.  This season you kept your consistency the whole year.  How have you maintained this momentum this whole year?  
JOHANNA KONTA: I think she actually kind of asked a similar question.   
Again, it's just my application towards every match I play.  I don't differentiate between opponents or stages or just events in general.  I really look to bring the best out of myself every time I step onto the court.  That includes practice.   
I think, yeah, I enjoy what I do.  I really do love the game.  I look forward to trying to improve every single day.   
 Q.  There's been a lot of debate about the rights or wrongs of on-court coaching.  A couple of times today Esteban came on court and seemed to calm you down, particularly in the second set.  You were quite animated and appeared to be stressing your views quite forcibly.  You started playing better after that.  What difference does it have him coming on just to calm you down a little bit?  
JOHANNA KONTA: Me coming across forcefully, I don't think that was the case.   
 Q.  I'm sorry, but I was about 50 yards distance, and you were seeming to make your point quite strongly to him.  
JOHANNA KONTA: My point being?   
 Q.  I have no idea.  I can't hear from that distance, but just your body language and everything suggested it.  
JOHANNA KONTA: Well, I was involved in a very competitive match.  I'm not sure if you've played a two-and-a-half hour match yourself.   
 Q.  A long time ago.  
JOHANNA KONTA: The emotional side that comes into that...  I think I do my best to really focus on the work at hand.  It's no joke that it is blood, sweat and tears that goes into this sport from every player.   
 Q.  I'm not criticizing you.  
JOHANNA KONTA: Well, then rephrase your question, please.   
 Q.  I'm saying, how important is Esteban's calming influence and the ability of a coach to come on during a match, how important do you view that?  
JOHANNA KONTA: Well, I think I call him on to have his outside opinion because him sitting on the side of the court, he will see things in a slightly different way than I will, being immersed in the match.   
I call him on to try to get that outside opinion.   
 Q.  It took you a long time to come to press yesterday and today.  Just wondering if it's treatment time or part of your recovery process that you want to start right after the match?  
JOHANNA KONTA: Yeah, it's just definitely part of the recovery process.  I try to get as much in as possible before coming in.   
 Q.  Have you spoken at all to Jo Durie about knocking her out of the record books and end these British droughts?  Have you spoken?  
JOHANNA KONTA: Actually, no, we haven't spoken.  I look forward to the opportunity when I will get to.  It is kind of nice.  I know I've achieved something good whenever I'm mentioned in the same sentence as her (smiling).   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT