DONGFENG MOTOR WUHAN OPEN
September 27, 2016
Johanna Konta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
J. KONTA/Zhang S.   
6-3, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  This is your second time in Wuhan.  Last time you went through qualifying and played very well.  We noticed that your ranking from last year kept rising.  After today's match, you'll reach the third round.  Do you feel Wuhan is a lucky place for you?  Do you have some special feeling about Wuhan Open?  
JOHANNA KONTA: First of all, I think it's a wonderful event that Wuhan really puts on here.  Every year that I come, this is my second year, I really do enjoy my time here.  It's a wonderful center court.  Hopefully I'll get many more chances to play on it this year and in years to come.   
Yeah, I have played quite well here last year, and so far I've played two good matches.  Again, I'm just hoping to make as many of them as possible.   
But, yeah, long may it continue this week.   
 Q.  In the Australian Open you had a match with Zhang Shuai before.  Today I think is your second encounter.  What do you think is the key factor to make you so successful against her?  
JOHANNA KONTA: It is the second time we played this season, but we've played a number of times throughout the years.  We've always had many, many good battles.  I knew going into the match that it was not going to be any different.   
I don't think the scoreline quite reflects how tough the match was.  We really had a lot of really close matches.  There wasn't much in it for it to be going either way really.  I really had to stay very tough, and also remember to give her credit where it was due.  I thought she played very well.  I wasn't able to convert as many breakpoints as I would have leaked because of her and how she played in them.  I think it was important for me to have good perspective, and yeah, really realize how well she was also playing.   
 Q.  Could you give us a specific comment about Zhang Shuai's performance today?  
JOHANNA KONTA: A specific comment?  I think she's a world-class player, and overall she played a high-level match today.  That showed in the tennis we brought out in each other.  It was a pleasure to share the court with her.   
 Q.  Are you a type of player that notices or is impacted very much by a change of conditions, balls changing from week to week, court surfaces, speeds?  Some players don't notice, some players do.  How sensitive are you to that?  
JOHANNA KONTA: Depends how tired I am, I guess what kind of mood I'm in.   
I think everyone will feel a general difference in the conditions that we play in.  But I think it also depends how much emphasis you put on it.   
For me personally, I definitely try to roll with the punches as much as possible.  If it is an uncomfortable change, then really try to take as much attention away from it as possible.   
So, yeah, I guess I try to roll with things.   
 Q.  You were saying before it was important for you to be fair to Zhang Shuai's performance.  Tennis players can be a bit perfectionist.  Not everybody is good about kind of acknowledging that everyone hits a good shot, it wasn't in your control.  How have you managed that throughout your career?  Have you always been able to shrug those things off or has that been a progress?  
JOHANNA KONTA: It's definitely been a progress.  I think it's something that also comes more with maturity and time and experience.  I think it's important to also stay humble.  I am out there to give my best.  But there's someone else out there also trying to give their best.  I think it would be really unrealistic to assume that everything is under my control and it's all on my racquet.   
I think, yeah, it's always important to give credit to a player.  By no means am I any easier on myself.  I definitely do expect the most from myself.  But that is mainly in the effort and my attitude, things that I have more control over, than necessarily my tennis level.   
 Q.  What have you been most pleased about your own performance so far this week?  Is there anything in particular that you wish to work upon over the next few days?  
JOHANNA KONTA: I think both the matches were slightly different.  But in particular today I felt I did a good job really trying to stay as calm as possible and just as focused on things on my end.   
I sound like a bit of a broken record, but really acknowledging the closeness of the match and enjoying the challenge of it, enjoying being in that situation, her bringing that tennis from me, and vice versa.   
I'm just happy to have played such a tough match and also being able to come through that.   
 Q.  Your next round, Carla Suarez Navarro.  Tee that one up for us, do our job for us, if you like.  
JOHANNA KONTA: I'm actually really looking forward to it.  I don't think we actually ever played against each other on the tour yet.  That's always fun.  Something different, something new.   
We've practiced together a few times.  She's an incredibly talented player, a very good player.  I'm really looking forward to being on court with her.   
Yeah, I haven't had too much time to think about exactly what to think about going into it.  I need to chat to my coach about it.  But, yeah, looking forward to the challenge.   
 Q.  You said you're happy when you arrive in Wuhan and this part of the season.  Other players find it challenging, are tired.  How do you stay fresh mentally more than physically despite all the changes and all the wins?  
JOHANNA KONTA: I think everyone's pretty much in the same boat.  Everyone's played a lot of tennis this year.  I'm definitely one of those people.  Yeah, you kind of trick your mind into thinking it's just at the beginning (laughter).   
I think also I take enjoyment from the good things here.  I think in this part of the season they really do try very hard, they put on very good events.  We stay at very nice hotels.   
 Q.  Specifically what makes this part of the season so challenging and tough?  
JOHANNA KONTA: I think it's just the fact that it's at the end of the season, a lot of players are coming in with a lot of tennis under their belt.  I think a lot of players are probably looking forward to a break.  In that sense, yeah, it just makes it I guess just a challenge.   
It's just part of tennis.  But it's also a great opportunity to really stay tough.  Yeah, basically the battle of the fittest right now.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT