WIMBLEDON
June 25, 2016
Johanna Konta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

Q. How do you feel about the prestige of being able to use the famous upstairs locker room? Have you been up there yet?
JOHANNA KONTA: Yes, I have actually. I've gotten my locker. It's nice and quiet. I think that's the biggest difference as of now. I'm sure it can get busy, as well. But downstairs is a lot busier as there's a lot more players around. 

Q. You're looking forward to the whole experience of being up there as part of the top 16?
JOHANNA KONTA: I think it was more just, you know, being excited to see if there's any difference in the locker rooms. 
But the showers are the same size. The towels look the same. I think, yeah, once that initial excitement, Oh, it's something new, then, yeah, you start thinking about things that are more important. 

Q. The last few weeks, the first time you had a chance to play at home since last year, since your rise up the rankings. Have you found people reacting differently to you? Have people talked to you about your results? How have you found it?
JOHANNA KONTA: Here? 

Q. Just at Eastbourne and Nottingham. 
JOHANNA KONTA: Well, I was very much either at the club or home. Besides my parents and my team, I wasn't speaking to too many other people. 
But it was so nice being at home. I was lucky enough that I got to stay there for quite a period of time. So that was good. 
I'm really looking forward to being here. I'm not quite sure what to expect in terms of, yeah, what the crowd will be like or anything. I'm just really happy to be here. 

Q. Jo, you took a bit of a tumble yesterday. Are you physically okay?
JOHANNA KONTA: Yeah, no, absolutely fine. It was more the shock of the tumble than the actual tumble. 

Q. Watching the match on the TV from here, it looked like quite an emotional one. Sounded like there was a strange interruption at the changeover. 
JOHANNA KONTA: Yeah, a lady was in trouble. 

Q. Was it quite an unusual match overall?
JOHANNA KONTA: Not particularly. It was a tough one. I'd played her quite a few times previously, especially I think the last two, maybe even three, matches have all been three sets and they've all been close. It was just another close game. 
But I was happy with some of the improvements I made compared to maybe the previous time I played her. I took a lot of good things from it. I got to have many hours on the grass yesterday, so that's another positive. 
Yeah, all healthy, so... 

Q. Did you feel you were having issues with the footing because you did go over a second time?
JOHANNA KONTA: I think that's a given with the grass that you are going to slip and tumble here and there. You get good at falling and try to make it look as graceful as possible. 
But, yeah, no, I think the main thing is not to get too nervous about it or too scared. 

Q. Jo, I know we asked you about it at the Olympic press conference at Queen's. But Zika is gathering and gathering momentum, Rory McIlroy not going to the Olympics. Have you had any more thoughts about it at all?
JOHANNA KONTA: Quite honestly, no. Ever since that press conference, I've been very much back on our main tour, so I haven't had much thought about it. 
We are constantly getting the most updated information about the virus, about preventive, being careful. 

Q. From the B.L.A.?
JOHANNA KONTA: Yes. I think we've got some of the best people working on it. I have full trust in them. 

Q. Have you been following much of the referendum fallout? What are your thoughts on it?
JOHANNA KONTA: Again, I was in Eastbourne playing. The thing is, with the tour, you're very much in your own little bubble. I haven't really watched much news. 
Obviously I'm aware of what happened during the referendum. But, yeah, in terms of my own opinions, I think they're very much best discussed at the dinner table (smiling). 

Q. Jo, you often preach it's about the match, the single match you're playing that day, don't try to get too up or down. Do lead‑up results matter to you? Do you come into Wimbledon feeling more confident than you would have maybe a week ago before playing good matches in Eastbourne?
JOHANNA KONTA: It would be hypocritical of me to say, Oh, yes, I feel more confident, because going into Australia, I'd actually lost two first rounds. I think it's more about not so much the wins, but how you feel in the matches that you've played. 
I feel like I've had some really good matches against some really good players. Whether I've won some, lost some, also having time on the grass, I feel very lucky to have had that. 
Yeah, no, I just feel happy that I'm healthy. Yeah, the sun is shining on and off today. It's good to be here. 

Q. You talked about getting time on grass. How does Wimbledon differ from Eastbourne? Are the courts very similar or do you find you have to adapt your preparation here?
JOHANNA KONTA: I don't know actually. I literally just got here this morning, so I haven't hit here yet. I know the courts in Eastbourne are really world class. I expect the transition onto the grass here will be very smooth, yeah, very easy. 

Q. Back to the tournaments leading up to a slam, Jo, do you have an extra gear when you get here, something extra, an intensity or anything like that, that you can bring to your tennis?
JOHANNA KONTA: Not consciously. Maybe subconsciously there is, you know, certain energies or emotions that go along with a slam. There's more people around, more buzz. 
But consciously, no. I approach every single tournament the same. I'm playing the same players as throughout the year. That doesn't really change either. 
The stage changes. I think along with that, the crowd and everything, sometimes players either rise or shy away. Both are just as likely. 

Q. So do you rise or do you shy away?
JOHANNA KONTA: I don't know. We'll see how it goes (laughter). 

Q. What is your reaction to Judy Murray's comments about young British female players needing to sort of get their heads down, avoid the party circuit, the glamourous opportunities that the new celebrity status brings? 
JOHANNA KONTA: When was this? 

Q. It was a couple of weeks ago. I mean, she mentioned the idea of young British female players get opportunities, once they start attracting media attention, to go to parties, do sort of profile work, how that can detract from their work, playing tennis, preparing. 
JOHANNA KONTA: I think it depends on the player, the person themselves. 
I play this sport because I love this sport. I understand there are certain things that come along with that, yeah, with certain scenarios, certain circumstances. 
I think if the athlete loves the sport, then they will, yeah, dedicate themselves to it the best they can. 

Q. You say you don't know what to expect from the fans, but you see what happens with Jamie and Andy. It's going to step up an extra level. Do you have to prepare for that?
JOHANNA KONTA: Actually, I really don't because I've never been in Andy's or Tim's shoes. I don't know how they experience what they experience. For me, this will be a new thing. 
I'm looking forward to it. Equally, you know, I'm here to play my tennis, yeah, just really enjoy what I do. Hopefully give the crowd some good matches.

Q. Does a big reaction push you forward or is it something you have to manage? 
JOHANNA KONTA: I guess the less I think about it, the less of a thought process I need to go into it. 
I'm here to play, not to have a reaction or manage other people's expectations. I'm here for me, so... 

Q. What can you say about your first‑round opponent?
JOHANNA KONTA: Well, she was in the other semifinal in Eastbourne. That would have been kind of funny if we played each other then played each other a few days later. 
She's playing, quite self‑explanatory, really good tennis. I think she made maybe even quarters in Nottingham. She's playing very well on this surface, and so far this year. 
It will be a really tough match. I expect nothing less. I think we played once previously as well, last year on the grass. I think it went all the way, maybe even 6 in the third. It will be a tough one. 

Q. Jo, have you been following the European football championships, and how happy you and your mom and dad are about Hungary's progress, and how happy are you that England did not have to play Hungary?
JOHANNA KONTA: Mom probably couldn't give two hoots. But dad was very excited. I'm happy that my dad's excited. I think that's the best way to describe football at home (smiling). 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT