AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 21, 2016
Johanna Konta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
J. KONTA/L. Tsurenko   
7-6, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Were you pleased with your performance today?  
JOHANNA KONTA: I actually felt -- I think what I did best was probably maintain a good level throughout the match.  I don't think my level changed much.  I think both of us were playing very well, especially for that whole first set and particularly the beginning of the second.   
It was a helluva long first set, that's for sure.  We played a lot of tennis in that.  But the more time I can get on the grass, the better, so I really enjoyed being out there.   
 Q.  That game at 5-All, you had five break points, an amazing game.  She came back, you kept breaking, or you almost broke, and then...  
JOHANNA KONTA: Well, yeah, I think it's just important to go in with the mindset of trying to create as many opportunities for yourself as you can and hope you can convert a few of them here or there but really not get too down on yourself if you don't.  The match keeps going and points keep coming and going.  Just keeping yourself in good spirits and, yeah, keep fighting.   
 Q.  How do you feel about playing Petra?  You played her in US Open last year.  
JOHANNA KONTA: Quite honestly, I haven't really thought about it.  I have just been eating and stretching.  I will have a chat with my coach later about the match for tomorrow.  But I'm really looking forward to it.   
She plays incredibly well on the grass.  She's a two-time Wimbledon champion, so I think her results speak for themselves.   
Yeah, I'm happy that I get to play against such a high-quality player, and hopefully we will be having a good match.  I will be looking to just give my best and we will see where that takes me.   
 Q.  What do you think you need to do differently from the US Open?  
JOHANNA KONTA: Quite honestly, I haven't really thought about it.  So, you know, I think I will have the same attention as every match going out and that's really looking to impose myself.   
I mean, she has a very aggressive game.  She serves well, she hits her shots very clean and big and well.  I think I'll definitely have to have my legs on me and really scramble to stay in points when I need to but also look to take my opportunities whenever they arise.   
 Q.  Mentally do you approach every opponent the same?  
JOHANNA KONTA: I do, yes.  I think it would be silly of me not to.  Every single person I play is human.  And, yeah, no, I really enjoy the difficulties and every match in whatever shape or form they arise.   
 Q.  Were you pleased with the reception you got on the court?  
JOHANNA KONTA: Oh, very much so.  So many people were out there and the noise they made.  No, definitely it was a pleasure being out there.   
 Q.  Was there any added pressure?  That first set was quite a titanic battle.  Did you feel the pressure?  
JOHANNA KONTA: Not really.  I have performed in front of more people than this, as well.  I enjoy it just the same as if I were to, you know, play only in front of 10 people.   
 Q.  But because it's a home crowd?  
JOHANNA KONTA: Quite honestly, it makes a difference in the sense that it's nice to be at home, but in terms of how I mentally prepare or how much I let in, it does not make a difference.  I really do try to keep myself in my own head space.   
Yeah, I'm just really happy I get another opportunity to come back tomorrow and play.   
 Q.  A year ago here you were 146 in the rankings upsetting seeds.  12 months on you're ranked 18 and a seed playing against a player lower than you.  What difference does that make?  
JOHANNA KONTA: Seeing as I approach every opponent the same, it really doesn't make any difference.  I think the players that I'm playing now play just as well as last year.  It really is, to me, it's important that I really approach every single match the same.   
It would be very unrealistic of me to give more credit to certain players and less credit to others.  It would put me at a disadvantage of when I get out on court, because you never know what's going to happen.   
 Q.  I was thinking more in that sense do you feel under any more pressure in those circumstances?  Did you feel a year ago, having nothing to lose, and you feel now there is a bit more to lose?  
JOHANNA KONTA: No.  I have never played the game in that way.  I have never felt that there was more or less on a match depending on what I'm ranked or what my opponent is ranked.   
At the end of the day we are two players who work incredibly hard to do our best in our profession, and that's how I judge it.  Whenever you go out on court it's 50/50 against the player you're playing.  You do your best to try and push the odds in your favor.   
But it doesn't always happen so I just keep trying.   
 Q.  Did you get a sense that perhaps she was beginning to fatigue?  Because you rather ran away with the second set.  
JOHANNA KONTA: Not at all, because if you look at the beginning of that second set it was an incredibly tough battle.  There was a lot of break points for her in that first game, as well.   
I think it's definitely important to keep the mindset that you're going to have to keep staying in there and keep trying because you don't have any control over kind of -- I guess it's one of those prepare for the worst kind of thing and keep pushing as much as you can.   
But, yeah, I was just very happy with how I was able to maintain my level and, yeah, happy I was able to come through that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT