AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 20, 2016
Johanna Konta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  (Question about play in Birmingham.)  
JOHANNA KONTA: I'm not sure how Birmingham wasn't a good start for me.  I actually also played in Nottingham the week before.  I played four great matches against all four high quality players.  I'm really happy with the amount of time I have been getting on the grass.  I also got the opportunity to play doubles last week, which I thought was a lot of fun and gave me that much more time on the surface.   
I'm really happy to be here at home, and it definitely gives me that extra just feeling of comfort.  But in terms of how I will do with this week results-wise, that remains to be seen.  I'm very much looking forward to the first match I will play and hope to be fit and healthy and really competing to the best of my ability on that day.   
 Q.  Quarterfinals last year.  What are the chances of going further this year?  
JOHANNA KONTA: Just the same as not, really.  You know, that's sport.  Nothing is guaranteed.  So I'm just really happy to be at home and get to spend time with my family.   
On top of that, I get to play at one of the best events in a leadup to a slam.  I feel very lucky, yeah, just really enjoying my time.   
 Q.  How would you reflect on where you were coming into Eastbourne 12 months ago compared to now in terms of the progress you have made, rankings, the way things have gone for you?  
JOHANNA KONTA: Well, definitely on paper it looks different.  I am much higher ranked than I was this time last year, but in reality I'm very much the same person with the same goals and the same work ethic.  They will all play into my profession.   
I maintain to work with a wonderful group of people.  I count my blessings with that.  I really get to go to work every day and be surrounded by people that I enjoy working with.   
 Q.  What about the fact that you get into tournaments like this as of right?  
JOHANNA KONTA: Well, as a self-pro claimed, you know, OCD, like making piles, color-coding things, it definitely does make it more satisfying making a tournament schedule.  I can plan way ahead, which is nice.   
Yeah, so in terms of that, it really is very nice.  It's not secret that the tournaments I'm now able to play are very, you know, beautiful.  And then there is a lot of, you know, a lot of perks that comes along with that.  The hotels I stay in, they are nice.   
The tournaments, coming up through the rankings, and the tournaments that made it possible for me to be here I always hold a very special place in my heart and will continue to do so.  I maintain the fact that I treat every match the same, and every event that I play, I play it with the same desire and the same fight to do my best.   
 Q.  What sort of difference does it make coming to a tournament from being at home?  
JOHANNA KONTA: Well, I don't have to book transport, so that's nice (smiling).  I just get to pop in the car and drive over.   
Yeah, no, I get to go home.  I get to ask my dad or mum, Please make my breakfast.  Yeah, that's quite nice.   
 Q.  What about the football?  Are you very interested in the football?  What about mum and dad?  Are you supporting England, Hungary?  
JOHANNA KONTA: Yeah, if Australia were involved I could support a whole bunch of people.  Yeah, definitely England and Hungary.  My dad loves football, so we generally are watching every game that is available.   
Yeah, no, my dad was definitely very nervous about Hungary when they were playing the last couple of days.  I'm sitting at home on the couch, and I'm like, Why am I feeling so nervous right now?  I'm watching this show on my laptop.  I'm like, Dad, stop being so anxious.  I'm like feeding off your anxiety here.   
Yeah, it's great to have so much sports available at this time.  This just a great period for Europe in general this summer.   
 Q.  What about your grandfather?  Do you have much contact with him?  
JOHANNA KONTA: Well, unfortunately he passed away before I was born, so one day I will meet him, I'm sure.  We all meet the Maker at some point.   
Yeah, no, I speak to my mum about him.  Yeah, I'm sure he's -- although I don't think he would have been very supportive of me playing at the beginning, because my mum played some sport and he was very strong with her.  You need to go into education.  You need to go to university.   
So I think maybe at the beginning not so much.  But I'm sure now he would be very proud.   
 Q.  How does Eastbourne compare to any other tournament for you?  
JOHANNA KONTA: Well, stating the obvious, it's a home event for me.  Not many players can say that they have actually a hometown event.  There's tournaments in your own country, but very few players -- or not just tennis, I think athletes in general -- can really stay at home and compete in one of their biggest events in their calendar.  So I feel very lucky.   
 Q.  With all the development that's just been announced, could you see Eastbourne becoming even more important for players, attract even more players now?  
JOHANNA KONTA: I think the importance of the event is very much rooted in its history.  I think the investment that's been made into the event will really just maybe catapult them all to the forefront of everybody's desire to come here that much more.  It will be a state-of-the-art facility, and I think, you know, throughout the calendar a lot of tournaments are striving to be there.   
So I believe the Aegon International is very much keeping with the times and really also giving back to the people that make this tournament what it is.  That's I believe the fans.  It's the people who come and really enjoy the event and watch the sport.   
 Q.  How nice would it be to see Andy Murray down here next year?  You're Britain's No. 1 in the ladies' draw.  How about the world No. 2?  
JOHANNA KONTA: Well, you're going to have to chat with him to see if he wants to come down.  I will put a word in for you guys if you want.  (Smiling.)   
 Q.  I'm sort of interested in the change of nationality.  Do you think your career would have played out differently if you had stayed in Australia, or what kind of difference it made?  
JOHANNA KONTA: Well, my move from Australia, it was -- the thing is, Australia, we loved Australia and I was born there, and, you know, it's where I spent my young years.   
But Australia was very far away.  So when I initially came, it was to train in Europe.  And then my parents realized that, well, you know, being 26 hours away on a good connection and a couple thousand dollars away is not the way to go for a 14-year-old daughter.   
They moved here to the UK.  As time progressed, I came here with them.  And I can't imagine things being any different than they are, but of course, you know, you never know how life works out.  I'm sure if we would have stayed there it would be different.  Who knows?  I may not even be playing.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT