AEGON CLASSIC
June 16, 2016
Johanna Konta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
J. KONTA/M. Doi   
7-6, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions for Johanna Konta, please.   
 Q.  How do you prepare for this and what have you been doing to keep yourself amused during these rain delays?  
JOHANNA KONTA: Just really kind of keep a light mind.  I am lucky I have my parents around and my coach, having a laugh with them and some of the other girls.   
I think it's just important to keep reminding yourself to not get stressed about things that are completely out of your control.   
 Q.  Is this the worst conditions, even in the ITF, that you've ever played in?  
JOHANNA KONTA: I wouldn't know, actually, what to compare it to.  I'm sure I've been in the same situation before -- actually, I do remember.   
Last year I was playing a 25 at the beginning of the year and I finished my first round, and it literally rained for three days nonstop.  It was on clay.  It was so bad that the clay got destroyed and we had to finish the tournament on hard.   
So that was interesting.  So we're still doing good compared to that.   
 Q.  You were down to play twice today in singles, three times with doubles.  What were you doing last night to prepare for that?  
JOHANNA KONTA: You don't really think about it.  You just prepare like any other day, any other match day.  I guess you really need to keep yourself present.  You don't think about it.   
 Q.  How has your life changed since your meteoric rise over last year?  Do you get recognized?  Asked for autographs?  
JOHANNA KONTA: Well, during the tournaments, like Nottingham, it's reasonably small, the town center is quite small, I got recognized a few times.  But I'm sure that's not just me, that's quite a few of the players.   
But really nothing has changed.  I promise you, I'm very much the same.   
 Q.  Do you like having the extra attention on you?  
JOHANNA KONTA: I've always wanted to be successful at what I do and I continue to want to be so.  Now, I guess, success in this field comes with maybe more recognition and getting recognized more outside.   
It's not why I play the sport.  It's not why I want to be the best I can be.  It's just very much a side product.   
 Q.  You see things like TV appearances as necessary rather than something you want to be doing ideally?  
JOHANNA KONTA: Don't get me wrong, I definitely enjoy the opportunity to be thrust into completely a different scenario, different situations, meeting people who I would not get to meet otherwise.   
But my profession is tennis and that's what I invest my life and my time in.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT