AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 25, 2016
Johanna Konta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J. KONTA/E. Makarova
4-6, 6-4, 8-6
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. When that ball hit the net and you dropped the racquet, hands up in the air, what was going through your mind?
JOHANNA KONTA: Oh, my God, it's finished.  Yeah, no, I don't really know actually.  It was just, I guess -- well, a lot of it is relief.  It's a big crescendo.  Is that what it's called?  Yeah, it's suddenly over.  It's more like another, Oh, wow, that was long.
Q. Was that one of the more intense matches you've ever played, so much on it?
JOHANNA KONTA: To be honest, I didn't put that much on it.  I really enjoyed the match for what it was.  It was a very high-level match against a very, very good player.  I took it as such.
I didn't put any more on it.  It was definitely one of the more spectacular matches I've played.  There have been a few.  I still remember a junior match I played and I lost 12-10 in the third.  That's definitely still in my mind.
In my adult career it was, yeah, one of the memorable ones.
Q. Sitting up in the stands, fairly empty up there, didn't feel like much atmosphere, but you said courtside that it was deafening down there.  How does it feel?
JOHANNA KONTA: No, I definitely meant what I said, that compared to how few people there were, they definitely made enough noise to make the stadium feel like it was full.  They made a tremendous effort.  The amount of support I felt from the crowd that was there was pretty special.
Q. It's a remarkable run you're on.  We think of it as having started in Eastbourne.  Where do you feel this surge of form started for you?
JOHANNA KONTA: This journey started when I was about eight years old, so we're coming up to 18 years now.
I've always said I do not believe in kind of a light switch moment.  Everything happens for a reason.  My journey has been the way it has been for a reason.  That's to accumulate the experiences that I've had.
I cannot give you a moment where I said, Oh, yeah, that's where it started, because it's been ongoing ever since I started playing.
Q. You spoke about how you've become calmer.  Your coach, no emotions at all.  Is that from where that started, they actually ground you during a match?
JOHANNA KONTA: They definitely are huge advocates for good habits for me.  They definitely are helping me stay in a good frame of mind, a healthy way of working.
Like I said, I've accumulated a lot of information over the years.  Yeah, no, I've always tried my hardest to learn from every single person that I've worked with.
But, yeah, the team I have now have done a great job with me in simplifying this and also putting things into practical terms which I'm able to utilize when I'm out on court.
Q. You talk about staying present in the moment.  How difficult was that when the trainer was out?
JOHANNA KONTA: It was actually okay.  It's all about dealing with the given situation, whatever that may be, and however many may arise during a match.  In a 3-hour-4-minute match, a lot of different situations will arise.  It's just the way it is.
Yeah, no, I stayed very much at the work at hand, just hit some serves, had some gel, and drank some more.
Q. You appeared to have a slightly lengthy conversation with the umpire when she was about to have the medical timeout.  What was that all about?
JOHANNA KONTA: No, I just felt I wanted to have a quick chat with the umpire.
Q. As you do.
JOHANNA KONTA: As you do.  When you've got time to kill, why not kill it.
Q. You mentioned the journey has been accumulating experiences.  Where do you think those experiences helped you the most today?
JOHANNA KONTA: Ooh, that's a tough one.  That's a tough one.
I guess, really, when you're able to relate back -- when you think back to being in certain situations and kind of, you know, you have little replays in your mind - I've been here; I've been in a similar situation - I guess you take comfort from that.
No matter how uncomfortable or how hard or how difficult it gets, you know, the more experiences you've had, the more you realize that practically you're going to survive it.  You're going to get through it.  You're going to handle it.  You're going to deal with it the best you can at that given time.
I think it's becoming just very strong in that belief, that whatever happens, I can handle it.  That's what you keep taking with you, I think.
Q. What do you know about the two women who you could potentially play in the next round?
JOHANNA KONTA: Shuai Zhang and Madison Keys.  I played Zhang a couple of times.  Actually both times were very good matches.  I've never played Madison before.
I mean, we're talking about a quarterfinal of a Grand Slam, so whoever I'm going to play it's going to be an incredibly good player.  Right now I'm just looking forward to just recovering well and having a good night's rest.
Whoever I'm playing, prepare to the best of my ability.
Q. Do you know what was going on when there was a point when the line judge climbed up on the umpire's chair and had a chat?  Do you know what that was?
JOHANNA KONTA: No, I do not.  Unfortunately, my hearing doesn't go that far.
Q. Think it might have been coaching?
JOHANNA KONTA: May have been, but I don't know.  It was never discussed with me.  It's not something that I am actively thinking about or inquiring about during my match.
Q. Players a lot of times talk about confidence.  Wins give them confidence.  Last summer, how much do you think that little run you had in the middle of the summer before the US Open translated into the upper echelon of the game to help you with your confidence?
JOHANNA KONTA: I think I was already building a lot of confidence in the previous months, years.  Sorry, guys.  I'm like a broken record.  Yeah, it's accumulating experiences that I've had.
Obviously it's no secret that given the opportunities to play at a high level, definitely it gives you momentum.  Win or lose, if you feel competitive in that environment, you do take positive things from that.
So, yeah, no, it's an ongoing process.
Q. Are you wowed by any of this?  You typically aren't.
JOHANNA KONTA: No, not particularly.  I mean, I'm just incredibly happy and humbled with the way I was able to compete today.  That's the thing I'm most happy about.
Yeah, I mean, the fact that it is the Australian Open and it was fourth round, that's pretty cool.  But, yeah, no, just given the situation, given the toughness of the match, of my opponent, I'm just really happy with how I was able to handle things and to keep trekking on.
Q. Do you feel emotionally you're related to Zhang Shuai because in the first round you both beat a top seed and you're now in your first quarterfinal in a Grand Slam?  Talk about the experience for the past 10 days.
JOHANNA KONTA: Well, I think Shuai Zhang is actually on a bit more of an incredible journey than myself.  She won her first main draw match at a slam.  I think that's an incredibly special moment.  Like you said, she's still in the event here.  She's come from qualifying.
I think she's doing unbelievably well.  So all credit to her for that.
In terms of comparing my journey to hers, that's a very irrelevant question for me to answer.  I can only speak to you about the matches I've had.  I've had four incredibly high-level matches.  I'm just very happy with how I was able to deal with every situation that arose specific to each match.
Q. With Madison, have you ever practiced with her or played doubles against her?  Any situation where you've been able to feel the ball?
JOHANNA KONTA: Actually, I don't know.  I don't know.  I feel like I may have hit with her at some point, but I wouldn't be able to pinpoint when it was.  Maybe I've just seen her play often.  I don't know.
Q. Are you going to treat yourself to any outings tonight or tomorrow?
JOHANNA KONTA: Yeah, like I'm totally going to go out tonight.  It's high on the priority list (laughter).
I'm going straight back to bed.  That's where I'm going.  I'm really looking forward to it.
Q. Physically you're pulling up okay?
JOHANNA KONTA: Yeah, no, I actually feel - knock on wood - pretty good.  It's a very emotionally charged situation to be in.  To be in for a lengthy time it makes you a bit sleepy.  So, sorry, guys, I'm nodding off here.
No, I feel pretty good.  Just going to take care of the little things.  Looking forward to the next one.
Q. Federer talks about being able to sleep 9, 10, 11 hours at night.
JOHANNA KONTA: Federer?  Well, it's obvious the children are obviously not in the room.  (Laughter.)
No, not 10, 11.  My sister's like that.  Oh, my gosh, I can't.  I feel like I've wasted too much of the day.
No, if I can get like nine, nine and a half hours, that's a solid night's sleep.
Q. No naps?
JOHANNA KONTA: Depends.  Depends on the time.  But, yeah, no, I need to be careful with my naps.  For example, a long day like this, I did have a nap in the afternoon.  Otherwise, yeah, no, I keep the sleep for the night.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT