AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 23, 2016
Johanna Konta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J. KONTA/D. Allertova
6-2, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. So, Jo, that wasn't bad then.
JOHANNA KONTA: Yeah, no, I'm obviously very pleased with the results of that.  I'm more happy with just how I was able to handle the situation out there.  It wasn't easy.
Obviously the court plays differently when the roof is closed.  She's a very tough player.  I'm happy I was able to, yeah, to really just hold down and take care of things on my end and just, yeah, keep fighting.
Q. Was it slower or faster?  What was the difference for you on Hisense?
JOHANNA KONTA: It was just a bit different.  Just obviously the acoustics are different.  Everything is a little bit different.  It's a good thing, though.  It means I wasn't delayed.  That's great.  That's the main thing:  we got to go on time and practice on time.  That was all good.
Q. When you see your opponent struggling with an injury, as she was, do you try to bring that out or try and adapt your game, make her run around more?
JOHANNA KONTA: She was struggling with an injury?  I didn't know.  Well, that shows you.  I think from my perspective you don't really try to pay attention to those sorts of things, because they are not really productive to me staying in the present and me just trying to take care of things my end.
Because, I mean, we have seen time and time again that even with injuries players can still be very dangerous and then can still very much close out matches and win matches.
So I think, yeah, that's not a main focus for me.
Q. Do you think the crowd is on your side at this tournament considering your Australian roots?
JOHANNA KONTA: I mean, I have been amazed with how much supportive I've gotten, but I don't know if that's a British contingent here or if that's from my Australian roots.  I don't know.  I'm just very grateful for all the people that do come out.
Whether they are supporting me or the player I'm playing against, it's always good to have a lot of people around.  It brings good energy.
Q. It appears there is an Australian flag next to your name on Google.
JOHANNA KONTA: I didn't know that.
Q. I had a search earlier and noticed that.
JOHANNA KONTA: It's not the first time that mistake has been made.  It's all good.  I'm definitely playing for Great Britain.
Q. I know the past is irrelevant in your thinking, but did what happened at Roland Garros, did that have any bearing in your preparations of the match?
JOHANNA KONTA: I think it just makes you more aware; maybe just gives you a better idea of what kind of ball you'll be receiving from the other end just because you have played that player before.
Also, I was definitely prepared for a tough match.  She's a very good competitor and she stays very calm and just really gets on with things.
So I was very prepared to stay out there as long as I needed to.  I was just very happy that I was able to take advantage of certain key points in the match and, yeah, to keep my momentum going.
But, yeah, no, again, as was with my Paris round, the scoreline isn't quite reflective of how difficult it was.
Q. You beat Makarova last year.  I know you don't look back...
JOHANNA KONTA: I'm playing Makarova?  Yeah?  Oh, okay.  (Laughter.)
Q. Can you take confidence from that win?
JOHANNA KONTA: I mean, again, like I always say, you know, new day, new match.  The only thing I can go into the match with is I know she's left handed, and I have obviously seen her on the other end of the court.
But in terms of circumstances and scenarios, we are at a completely different venue, different surface, different time of the year.
So I'm really just going to focus on, again, things on my end and see where the match takes me.
Q. What's the most challenging part of her game when you face her?
JOHANNA KONTA: Well, I have only played her once.  I mean, she's an incredibly good player.  I mean, I think she's made it to the last eight here last year, or?
I don't know.  Semis?  So there you go.  So she's an incredibly good player.  I think, you know, when you play players like that, it's not so much a forehand or backhand or a serve.  They can hit all of it and they can hit all of it extremely well.
I think it's just about being there, fighting hard, and trying to take -- trying to capitalize on the small chances you do get.
Q. Your three wins here so far, what's pleased you most about the way you've played?
JOHANNA KONTA: I think more just moving on from any difficulty within the match.  I'm quite happy with how I have been able to just, you know, focus and refocus.
Yeah, I think because that is the main thing that I can somewhat control.  Obviously not always.
But, you know, I'm definitely happy with how I'm competing out there.
Q. Do you have a routine here?  Same restaurant?  Same meal?  That sort of thing?
JOHANNA KONTA: I have been going to Hunky Dory a lot.  It's out of routine.  See, like I said, I'm...
Q. That's quite apt.
JOHANNA KONTA: I'm an animal of routine, but not necessarily superstition, because if it changes I don't freak out.  I do like my routines.  Fish restaurant on Chapel Street.  Unbelievable.  Guys, please go.  It's really is very good.
I have eaten so much fish I'm actually going somewhere different now.  Otherwise, no.  Just same breakfast.  I usually enjoy having the same breakfast.
Q. Which is?
JOHANNA KONTA: This week we have eggs -- actually eggs is usually present.  But we have fruit, passion fruit.  You guys need to eat passion fruit here.  It's unbelievable.
And toast and chia pods.  I don't know how to say it, but, again, great.
Q. What does it mean to reach two fourth rounds in a row?  To do it once it was great at the US Open, but to sort of back it up and do it again shows consistency.
JOHANNA KONTA: Well, I mean, obviously I am pleased to be -- I'm in the second week again.  But I don't really look back on and compare it to the US Open and compare it to anything really.  I'm just happy I'm competing at the event I'm at which happens to be the Australian Open, which is pretty cool.
Otherwise, yeah, I'm very much just in the here and now and looking forward to doubles, which I have later.  Really not thinking any further than that.
Q. How does that work for you?  Do your coaches do a lot of the sort of tactical work looking at Makarova for example and feeding it back to you, or do you enjoy understanding what is going to be coming at you from the other side or do you leave that all to your coaches?
JOHANNA KONTA: Well, I was playing at the same time as them, I guess.  When I looked on the schedule I saw the names.
But, I mean, I enjoy watching tennis like in the evenings.  I'm watching tennis back at the flat.
So yeah, I love the sport, so I do enjoy watching it, as well.
Yeah.  I mean, they obviously look, as well.  I look a bit.  But it just depends how it works out timing-wise, obviously.
Q. Does Australia feel like a second home to you or have you really moved on?
JOHANNA KONTA: Well, it is my birth home, so it will always be a home of some sort.
But, yeah, no, I'm very happy, very pleased to be representing Great Britain.  That is my home.  That is where my heart is.  That's where my parents are.  That's where I grew up essentially.
So when people ask where I'm from, where is home, that's where it is.
Q. Do you still have relatives and close friends here?
JOHANNA KONTA: My sister lives in Australia, lives in Sydney.  She flew down today.
Q. Is that a nice compliment that they're sort of desperate to reclaim you?
JOHANNA KONTA: I know.  I'm getting a lot of Australia questions.  It is a compliment for you guys to be interested in my Australian roots, but unfortunately it's going to be a very boring answer to all these questions.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT