WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 24, 2020
Johanna Konta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  J. KONTA/K. Flipkens
 6-2, 6-0
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. Just tell us about that victory.  Very impressive.  How important was it you didn't spend very long out in the heat?  It was a very quick match, wasn't it?
 JOHANNA KONTA:   Yeah, it was.  Close games.  We actually had quite a few back-and-forth games.  However, obviously the majority of the games went my way, so it did end up being quite reasonably fast.
 I mean, obviously it's tough to be out there.  The longer you're out there, however, I think that's what we prepare for.  I was prepared to be out there as long as needed.
 Overall, I am happy with how I think problem-solved out there and played in general.  I think I obviously made it quite difficult for Kirsten to get a foothold in the match.  I give myself a bit of credit for that.
 But, yeah, obviously I'm really pleased to have gotten a win.  Obviously the first one since Monterrey, which was, I mean, six months ago.  So it was a long time ago.
 So, yeah, I'm definitely pleased to have set up another opportunity for me to play tomorrow.
 Q. When we last spoke to you at Lexington, we spoke about the heart palpitations and the history behind that.  You said you were going for more tests.  Have you got any more updates on that?
 JOHANNA KONTA:   Well, no, I haven't gone for any more tests since then.  I think they will happen more so when I'm at home.  There are some other things going on in the background to see of what other monitoring things for me to have available to me if it were to happen when it were to happen.
 But again, like before -- obviously I had two episodes reasonably close together, but before that, I hadn't experienced it since 2018.  So I think there is plenty of room to kind of give it when it probably won't happen, knock on wood, for a long time again.
 Yeah, they are definitely looking into different ways of being able to monitor if and when it does happen.
 Q. How important is playing well this week and getting momentum to get ready for the US Open?
 JOHANNA KONTA:   I think obviously -- I mean, everyone is short on matches, so it's a very odd situation to be in.  It's not like just one or two people that have been out with a long-term injury.  Everybody is short on matches.  So I think everybody is looking to just get their feet under them again and just start playing.
 I think this is a very different situation, a very different environment to be in in terms of the fact that we are playing a different tournament at the US Open the week before the US Open.
 I mean, to be honest, I'm just taking it one day at a time and kind of enjoying each match I get to play and to kind of, yeah, enjoying that process of just being able to compete again.
 Q. So many of the top players, I think six of the top eight, won't be playing next week.  How do you feel about that?  Do you feel that gives you an even better chance?
 JOHANNA KONTA:   No, not necessarily, because a lot of the slams have been won by players outside of the top eight even when the top eight have been playing.
 So I think, you know, it doesn't really change much  the depth of the level we have, and as you always see on the women's side, especially, there is nothing for certain, nothing is given.  I mean, for the last number of years, historically we really haven't had a clear one person dominate the sport for us for a number of years.
 So I think it's going to be a very similar situation for us now.  There is going to be a lot of favorites, a lot of people coming in that are favorited to win.
 However, we always have a lot of really exciting matches all the way through.  So I think it's just going to be very much the same thing for us this year.
 Q. Obviously the knee debate about your fitness has sort of been rumbling on in the background.  You said it was limited how much you could do on it during lockdown.  Wondering where you are with that now?
 JOHANNA KONTA:   Rumblings about my knee.  (Laughter.)
 I mean, obviously you saw me playing today and playing in Lexington.  I'm definitely, I guess, making good ground and gains in terms of my rehabilitation/process with the knee.
 It's not a straightforward injury where you take time out, you rehabilitate it, you come back, and you're good to go.  These sorts of tendon issues, they can take years of just constant management and constant strengthening of it.
 Actually credit to my fitness trainer Gill, I think we have really turned a corner in the last two months, again, knock on wood, just doing a few extra and a few different things to help it.
 And slowly, right now I have actually had some pain-free days, which is really amazing.  And even today it was really good on court.  So it's a process.
 And it's a very boring answer, I know, but it's kind of one of those things that it's just an ongoing thing.  Yeah, no, but definitely heading in the right direction.
 Q. Having experienced the bubble for a few days, I wonder, looking ahead, about how comfortable would you be playing in Europe?  Because at the moment it seems there won't be sort of the same operation in place.  The French Open is talking about spectators.  I have not heard any word of designated accommodation for players or staff.  Do you think the bubble is something that should carry on?  Because I guess going to Europe after this you might not feel as safe.
 JOHANNA KONTA:   In short, I don't know.  I think in terms of information about the French Open, I actually don't have any either, and I was recently just asked in kind of do I need to look into booking the usual apartment that I book every year, or is it going to be the same setup in terms of designated hotel for everyone.  So I actually don't know what they are doing or what they are planning to do.
 Hopefully they will be sharing their plans soon enough.  But I think with everything, with all this right now, it's just not straightforward and it's not simple.
 There is always going to be a lot of moving parts in general, anyway, with a slam, but especially now under these circumstances.
 So I think the bubble for here is definitely working, and I think they needed to implement it to start, I guess, bringing back our competitive sport.
 I don't know how it will evolve from here.  You'd like to think that in time we will be able to play in front of spectators again.  I don't know how soon that will be or should be.  I don't know.
 I am kind of in the sense of just a good little sort of following orders and seeing what options I have to play and where.  But, yeah, hopefully we'll have more information on kind of what circumstances we will be playing under in Paris.
 Q. Just looking ahead to the US Open, no players who are going there will have had many matches under their belt.  Do you think that will make it even more unpredictable?  You said just now how open the women's game in particular has been.  Lack of matches, is that going to make it even more open, do you think?
 JOHANNA KONTA:   I think it will definitely add to it.  I mean, for sure it will have a say in it.  However, I think also, because everyone is on the same playing field, I think at the same time it might not because everyone is in the same position, then.  Kind of six-and-two-threes kind of thing.
 But I think it will definitely be exciting just to have people back and, you know, playing another slam, first one since January.  So I think everyone is just going to be really motivated and really excited to be a part of it, I mean, I think already seeing this week how the players are enjoying being back and just getting the opportunity to play.
 Q. You have Vera Zvonareva next.  Wondering whether you have had much chance to watch her play since you came back to the tour and what your thoughts are?
 JOHANNA KONTA:   Not really.  I did actually practice with her at the end of 2018, so a while ago now.  But, I mean, she's a great player.  You know, I mean, she's also into the third round.  She was in quallies, right?  So she's obviously won some matches.
 To be honest, you're telling me now who I'm playing.  I didn't know who I was playing.  So I haven't really had a chance to think about it or digest it all, obviously, talk to the team about it.
 But definitely for the next few hours I will enjoy kind of what I did today, and then slowly kind of towards this evening but especially tomorrow morning I will start thinking about, okay, what am I looking to do in my match tomorrow.
 Q. When you did sort of practice with her, what stood out from her style of play?
 JOHANNA KONTA:   To be honest, I don't remember.  I just remember practicing with her.
 I mean, it was actually quite funny, even today before I played Kirsten, we were talking about kind of how I played her two years ago, and I didn't remember playing her two years ago.  I remembered her playing in Monterrey in 2016 and I played her twice since then.
 So my memory isn't great when it comes to matches or playing people or kind of things like that, so I don't remember what would have stood out.  But she's been around for a long time so she knows the game.  She can read the game.  She's an incredible competitor when I have seen her play.
 She will be there from the very first point to the very last, and someone like that is very tough to play against, so it will be a tough match for me.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT