WIMBLEDON
June 23, 2014
Johanna Konta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. PENG/J. Konta
  6‑4, 3‑6, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Tough match. 
JOHANNA KONTA:   Yes, it was. 

Q.   Obviously you got back to a set all.   Did you think you had a chance?
JOHANNA KONTA:   Yeah, no, definitely.   I think you can tell how the match was from the last two sets, I think.   First set she handled the occasion much better than I did.   I was playing with a little nerves, a lot of tension, I felt.   Obviously when you play like that, you can't play at your best level. 
But she took her chances in the first.   I believe I came back in the second with a cool head and just started playing tennis really.   Obviously in that third set it was just one more break, and she played a good service game to serve it out really. 
A couple chances here and there which obviously I would have liked to have taken, but she played well. 

Q.   Were those nerves there because it's Wimbledon?
JOHANNA KONTA:   Uhm, I guess so.   Obviously it's a big event.   But there's always first‑round nerves, as well.   And I guess I would have liked to have settled down a little quicker than I did. 
But it is the way it is.

Q.   Looking back on it, do you think it is one that got away from you, one that you could have won?
JOHANNA KONTA:   I didn't have any match points.   I didn't have any significant leads throughout the match. 
Obviously I would have liked to have played better, but I don't really believe in looking back at matches and thinking about what I could have done, should have done.   I need to look forward now really and just improve on the things that I didn't do so well, just do things to the best of my ability to not make the same mistakes.

Q.   Before the match it must have looked winnable to you?
JOHANNA KONTA:   I think every match is winnable.   I doubt that any player who plays at this level goes into a match not believing they can win. 
Obviously I'm playing an opponent who wants to win just as much as I do.   So it's a tough sport, like anything. 
Obviously I'm just sad not to have been able to give myself another chance to play at this wonderful event.   But I still got doubles and mixed doubles.   So I'm still going to be enjoying the experience. 

Q.   You talked about the nerves and the tension.   Is that the British crowd perhaps?   Is that extra pressure on you?
JOHANNA KONTA:   No, that's not pressure.   That just adds a great atmosphere, the crowd. 
No, it's always lovely to play in front of a crowd.   It makes our job more enjoyable.   That's what we work towards, to be able to play on those kind of stages. 
I'm talking more of my own pressure on myself of just wanting to perform.   But, like I said, I'll be working on not making the same mistakes twice. 

Q.   Can you take consolation from having broken into the top 100?   I'm guessing that's been a target for you. 
JOHANNA KONTA:   I'm not sure if it's consolation.   Obviously it's a small milestone for me, so obviously I take a lot of pride in that, am very happy about that.   But obviously that's not my main goal. 
I'm very much looking forward, wanting to keep moving forward.

Q.   When you come back here next year, which single aspect of your game would you like to see the biggest improvement in?
JOHANNA KONTA:   I would just like to handle the situations better, I think.   I would just like to tighten up my game in certain areas.   I would just like to hit the ground running a bit better, I think.

Q.   What helps you do that?   Is there a mental element to that?
JOHANNA KONTA:   Of course.   Obviously this game is very much mental. 
I am working with a sports psychologist, obviously.   She's helping me a lot with how to handle situations, and that's obviously a work in progress.   Every match I play till the end of the year, obviously we're only halfway through the season, that is a lot of matches to be played, I'll be looking to improve with every one. 

Q.   Was it easy to be on day one of Wimbledon, first on court, on an outside court?   Would you have preferred a later slot so you felt more part of the proceedings, as it were?
JOHANNA KONTA:   No, I don't think so.   I'm still part of the Championships. 
Actually, I was completely okay with playing first round.   There's less waiting around.   It's always difficult when you've got two men's matches before you, which can take anything from four to ten hours.   I was very happy with where I was playing and at the time of day. 
Just obviously a little sad about the result, that's all. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT