AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 17, 2014
Johanna Konta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. KONTA/B. Bencic
  6‑3, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How is that victory?
JOHANNA KONTA:   Obviously I'm very happy with my performance.   I knew going into the match that Belinda was in good form.   She had obviously won three matches here having to qualify.   She's had a great year so far. 
I played her earlier in the year in Acapulco.   I had a tough one against her.   I lost.
I knew I'd have to play my best and stay tough.   I'm just happy I got through.

Q.   Did you count the match points?
JOHANNA KONTA:   No, I did not.

Q.   Were you nervous during them?
JOHANNA KONTA:   No, not particularly.   I do think she raised her level in those points.   She started having some very good first serves.   I just took it point by point and just glad I got through in the end.

Q.   How does that result stand on your table of achievements?
JOHANNA KONTA:   I think it's a good result for me.   It's a good win. 

Q.   Nothing more than that?
JOHANNA KONTA:   No, not really.   It's a first round of a tournament, so I'm just happy to have gotten through.   I'm just really looking forward to my next match.

Q.   She's very highly ranked, isn't she?   World No. 1 junior?
JOHANNA KONTA:   Yes, I mean, obviously she's a great player, she's had a great year so far, inside the top 100. 
I was very prepared to having to play a tough match.   I just wanted to stick with my game plan and just make sure I fought every point and just happy I got through.

Q.   Your family here?
JOHANNA KONTA:   My mom and dad are here, yes. 

Q.   How do you feel your form is going into Wimbledon?   How do you feel you're playing?
JOHANNA KONTA:   I'm feeling good on the grass.   I have been fortunate enough to have had a couple of matches on the grass now.   I feel quite comfortable.
I'm healthy, I'm feeling good, so, yeah, things are good.   I'm looking forward to just the next match I have to play and then the next one after that.

Q.   With matches like that today, do you kind of go into them with a slightly different mindset now?   Do you really sort of feel like, well, I can win this, and you're hoping to win?
JOHANNA KONTA:   I think every match I play I need to go in with the mindset of I can win this.   Otherwise there is no point of me going on court really.   I have to be my own biggest fan. 
No, I'm just really happy to have gone in, took it point by point, and stayed tough when I needed to and get through.

Q.   I'm just wondering with the progress you have made up the rankings, does that give you a bit more confidence than you might have had before going into a match like that?
JOHANNA KONTA:   I don't think my mindset has changed, no.   I think obviously things come together at certain times, and some things take longer than others.
I'm just happy with the form I'm in and that I'm healthy and enjoying competing.   So I'm just really just taking it a match at a time.

Q.   Are you hoping to get on centre court in the next round?
JOHANNA KONTA:   I haven't thought of it really.   I'm not sure who I play yet.   They're playing now. 
I guess we'll see when the schedule comes out where I will be playing.

Q.   Do you feel you're going in the right direction, the rate of your progress, your lift up the rankings?   Are you happy with that?
JOHANNA KONTA:   Yeah, no, I'm definitely happy with the direction I'm going.   Obviously, like I said, some things go quicker than other things, but I'm happy that things are going well.   I'm just happy to be competing and to be healthy, healthy enough to compete, really.

Q.   Are you doing anything different?   Have you changed anything in your training or in your game?
JOHANNA KONTA:   No huge changes, really.   Obviously I'm looking to stay offensive, making sure that physically I'm healthy, so looking after my body.
But otherwise, just really sticking with the process.

Q.   I saw you play in Vancouver last year.   How would you compare the way you're playing right now to when you were in Vancouver last year?
JOHANNA KONTA:   I don't know, actually.   Vancouver was a huge win for me.   That was the highest‑level tournament I had won.   So obviously that's a very happy memory. 
Level‑wise, I do think I'm playing better and better.   Obviously I'm playing on a different surface right now than I was then, but the enjoyment is the same, and, knock on wood, health is the same.   Just really looking forward to this whole grass court time now and the rest of this season.

Q.   Do you set yourself goals as far as the rankings go, top 100 and by the end of the year or anything like that?
JOHANNA KONTA:   Yes, no, I have personal goals and obviously outcome goals I'd like to achieve.   I'm very much aware that to achieve those I need to stay in the process and stay with the things that I can control day to day and just hope for the rest to take care of itself.

Q.   Can you share some of those goals with us?
JOHANNA KONTA:   No (smiling). 

Q.   The crowd are very close to you on court No. 2.   Did you appreciate the home support?   Was it nice to play in your hometown and with the home support?
JOHANNA KONTA:   Very much so.   No, obviously I didn't make out faces, but I saw the amounts of people that were around.   It is always nice to play in front of a crowd.   The energy is obviously much higher.   It makes our job a lot more exciting to be playing in front of people.
Very grateful for the home support, and hopefully I will get that tomorrow, as well.

Q.   Just tell us your mother's and father's names. 
JOHANNA KONTA:   Why? 

Q.   Well, you mentioned they are here.   It's nice to call them by their names rather than "mom" and "dad." 
JOHANNA KONTA:   My mother is Gabriella Cortez, and my dad is Gabor Konta.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT