AEGON CLASSIC
June 11, 2014
Johanna Konta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. WOZNIAK/J. Konta
  6‑4, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.  
   
 Q.   Unlucky today.   Seemed to be in that match right up until will end of the first set.   Can you explain what happened in the second set?  
JOHANNA KONTA:   I believe the game I got broken ‑‑ the first game I got broken, I don't remember which one‑‑ I think she played three very good points.  
I think she played a very good match overall.   She was playing with a lot more confidence than yesterday, I felt.   She was definitely a lot more solid.  
But then again, I felt I had a couple chances here and there, semi chances, which I didn't really feel like I capitalized on.  
From my end, I would have liked to have made more balls, obviously.   But it was a good experience to be out on a big court like that.   I haven't had many chances like that up until now.  
It was a new experience for me, so I'll only take the positives for that.   You never know what court I may play on at Wimbledon.  
   
 Q.   Are you relatively happy with your couple of matches and week's work here?  
JOHANNA KONTA:   I'm definitely happy that I've been able to get more and more matches under my belt on the grass, making semis of Nottingham last year and getting to play two matches here.   Obviously I would've liked to have done better.   Felt I could have done better.  
But it wasn't to be.   Just looking forward now and hoping not to make the same mistakes.  
   
 Q.   What's the plan now, Eastbourne?  
JOHANNA KONTA:   Yes, now I'll be heading home to Eastbourne.  
   
 Q.   The Wimbledon wildcards came out today, and you didn't need one.  
JOHANNA KONTA:   No.   (Smiling.)  
   
 Q.   What kind of pride is that for you to qualify directly for the tournament?  
JOHANNA KONTA:   I'm very happy about that, obviously.   It's a small milestone, I guess.   I'm very grateful to the All England Club for nominating myself and Tara Moore for a lines wildcard.   That's a great opportunity again for me.  
Obviously very much looking forward to The Championships.   Hopefully I can do well.   We'll see.  
   
 Q.   What do you think of the program of wildcards in general?   Obviously you've got them in the past here and other places.   Some people say maybe they make the players a bit complacent or a bit of a handout when the players could be playing qualifying and earning their way in.  
JOHANNA KONTA:   I mean, to be honest, I don't have much say on how wildcards are distributed.   I can only be grateful and hopefully capitalize on when and if I get one.  
So that's my job, and that's all I can take care of.   About how they're distributed, that is very much up to the Federation and the governing body.  
   
 Q.   As a women's player, obviously, what are your thoughts on Andy hiring Mauresmo?  
JOHANNA KONTA:   I think it's great.   I think Mauresmo is obviously a great player, and I believe she'll bring good things to Andy's game.   Obviously he already had a very strong female influence in Judy Murray.   She is one of the best female coaches out there, so I don't think there should be any issue.  
   
 Q.   How does this tournament prepare you for the pressure of being a British player at Wimbledon?  
JOHANNA KONTA:   Like I said, it was definitely a great experience for me to play out on centre court today.   It was my first main exposure on a bigger court like that, on a centre court.  
I played on that big court‑‑ well, not big court at Wimbledon, the one with the big half stand anyway.   So, no, definitely I think all these opportunities, experiences, can only add good things to my game and to me is as a competitor.  
I think, yeah, only good things.   (Smiling.)  
   
 Q.   Is being British No. 1 a goal of yours, something that matters to you?  
JOHANNA KONTA:   Definitely.   I think, however, it's a goal that's achieved when you're focusing on obviously bigger things as well.   I wouldn't say my end‑term goal is being British No. 1.   I would like to be the best that I can be.   If that happens to be British No. 1, that's great.   (Laughter.)  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT