US OPEN
September 1, 2019
Johanna Konta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
J. KONTA/K. Pliskova   
6-7, 6-3, 7-5   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  You always look happy after a win, but you looked particularly happy after that one. Did it rank pretty highly in your career list?  
JOHANNA KONTA: Uhm, yeah. I mean, yeah, I'm really pleased. I think I'm just overall pleased because, kind of like my first round, every match is difficult in its own way, but I know that, like with everyone, there's always going to be certain players or certain types of game styles that are just more difficult for each player to play against.   
I mean, obviously my record shows that I find it difficult to play against Karolina. I'm just pleased I was able to, yeah, basically just find a way and enjoy being out there, knowing that, you know, nothing was for certain. I could have lost that match just as easily as I would have won it.   
Just pleased overall at how I just, yeah, stayed out there and played.   
 Q.  So many chances to win the first set, fell a break down in the second. How did you kind of reset yourself? Felt like it's going to be one of those days at that point.  
JOHANNA KONTA: One of those days, okay (smiling).   
I mean, I think it's part of the game to sometimes not be able to serve a set out. It's part of the game to go down a break and come back. Equally for her, she could have taken a lot of confidence from being able to come back from 5-3 down, going a break up in that second set.   
I mean, I think I didn't really get discouraged by it. I was playing against, I think she's No. 3 in the world right now, I'm playing against the No. 3 player in the world. Nothing is going to be given to me or be easy.   
Being 5-3 up is by no means a guarantee that it's my right to win that set. I just have to keep working. I felt I did that in that second set, as well, even going a break down.   
I didn't see it as a be-all, end-all.   
 Q.  Can you sort of enlighten us as to why you've developed this formidable record in deciding sets which has developed over this year? Do you think there's any underlying reason for it? Is it a situation you just have become confident with or...  
JOHANNA KONTA: Uhm, I mean, I think generally three-set records, being successful in three sets, comes with playing a lot of matches. As well, I think you'll see a lot of players be able to do that who have won a lot of matches. I think I've won quite a lot of matches this year as well.   
I don't think it's anything specific. I trust myself to be out there on court for as long as needed to play the game for as long as I need to.   
I don't feel any time pressure to be off the court in a certain amount of time. So maybe I feel comfortable being out there for three sets.   
But, no, I don't think there's anything specific behind it.   
 Q.  Do you mean you don't feel time pressure to be off the court, you trust that you're going to be one of the fitter people out there?  
JOHANNA KONTA: Uhm, not necessarily comparing myself to my opponent. I just feel that whatever the game asks of me, I'm prepared to be out there and play for as long as I need to. I will either do well or I don't.   
I don't feel any pressure to be out there for a short amount of time. I'm happy to stay out there for a long amount of time. I think a lot of matches now, the way they are, there's a lot of very tough, long battles that a lot of players are having. I think it's, yeah, I feel prepared to be out there if I need to.   
 Q.  You seem like one of those players who works hard off the court. You talk a lot about the process, trying to make things as simple as possible. When things weren't working the way you wanted in the matches, is it hard to keep that positive, simple mindset?  
JOHANNA KONTA: I mean, I think definitely working off the court or just putting in the time to get better is going to give you the best chance of getting better in matches, getting better on court. That's obviously trusting the process part.   
I mean, it's never always just going to go your way. Whenever you are out on court, it's inevitable there's going to be frustration or there's going to be things that are difficult.   
I think part of just now being able to accept and tolerate comes with times as well, and also perspective. I think I've got just a good perspective right now.   
 Q.  So you felt clearer on the court than maybe you did a year ago, 18 months ago?  
JOHANNA KONTA: Uhm, I think definitely to a certain extent. I think the more work you put into a certain aspect of your game, the more fluid it becomes or the more second nature it becomes. I definitely think there's got to be an element of comfort that comes out and trust in what you're doing out there. So, yeah, probably.   
 Q.  I have a question about your coach, Dimitri. Tell me what he brings to you, what kind of person he is.  
JOHANNA KONTA: I think probably the biggest thing that he's brought to me is space. He's given me space to just be exactly who I am, who I want to be on court. He's encouraged my self-development in my own way. He's very nurturing in that way.   
I think he has a great understanding of -- I mean, it's relevant to me -- but giving a player space to grow.   
Yeah, so I think that's probably enabled us to work well together and for me -- I'm also really grateful for him to be able to create an environment, along with me and Dan and everybody else who is in the team, I'm really excited to come to work every day. I look forward to learning every day. That's a really privileged position to be in in any job. I feel very, very grateful for that.   
I mean, he's great. He's quite reserved and quiet. Yeah, no, I think he's a great person.   
 Q.  You've beaten the third seed. Now you play the fifth or tenth seed. I'd like to ask you about each one as an individual to preview. If you were to face Svitolina, what would the keys to that match be?  
JOHANNA KONTA: I mean, if there was only one key, that would be great.   
Against Elina, as well, she's a tough player for me to play. I've had a lot of difficulty against her, as well. Equally so, I mean, she's incredibly tenacious. She's a tremendous competitor. I would be going out there anticipating it to be a tough match, anticipating for her to be there from the very beginning to the very end. Just really looking to compete well against her on the day.   
 Q.  And against Madison, what is the biggest challenge for you?  
JOHANNA KONTA: I mean, she's an incredible player. She's got a massive game. I mean, she's got tremendous power behind her ball, and her ability to really just play big, similar to Karolina in a way, some other players.   
I mean, there would be times where I wouldn't have much to say in the match. That's something that you have to learn to tolerate and just accept. So I think, yeah, having good acceptance against that, just really looking for any opportunity that I would get to implement my way of playing.   
 Q.  What, if anything, does it mean to you to become the first British woman to reach the quarterfinals here since Jo Durie in 1983? How confident are you that you can at least go onto the semifinals as she did?  
JOHANNA KONTA: I mean, yeah, I'm really pleased. I think for me more on a personal level to be able to have made it to the quarters for my third slam in a row, I think that's a really, really big achievement for me. So I'm really pleased with that.   
Obviously I'm looking forward to keep going further and further. You know how I am: I take one match at a time. I don't really look forward too much more. I think it will be important for me to enjoy this victory today and then prepare for what comes next tomorrow.   
 Q.  What has been the biggest difference this year to give you that consistency in a slam?  
JOHANNA KONTA: I don't think specifically anything. I mean, I think what I've said before. I think scheduling is always something that everyone looks to, to do the best they can, to get it right. In hindsight everything looks better.   
I think nothing specific. I think just being prepared to play every single match, to be here for as long as possible, I think including three sets. I think that helps me stay in a frame of mind to be prepared to play.   
Just as easily I could have lost in the first round. I was playing against a great player. I don't think there's a magic formula to stay until the end of slams.   
 Q.  I don't know if you know, but when you missed that smash - you remember the smash, third set?  
JOHANNA KONTA: Yeah, I think so.   
 Q.  Tom Hiddleston put his heads in his hands. Did you notice that?  
JOHANNA KONTA: No, I didn't see.   
 Q.  I think sometimes if a player would have seen that, it would have annoyed them a bit.  
JOHANNA KONTA: No, it wouldn't have annoyed me. That stuff doesn't annoy me. I think when people come to support you, they're living every moment of the match, I think it's normal for them to express emotion in every possible way. It's just for me and in support of me, so no.   
 Q.  He's proved a good luck charm for you.  
JOHANNA KONTA: I mean, I didn't win two matches when he wasn't here, you know, cheers, yeah.   
Yeah, I mean, it's been great to have him. Yeah, no, it's been good to have people supporting me in the box, who are rooting for me. That's been nice.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT