INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA
May 19, 2019
Johanna Konta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
K. PLISKOVA/J. Konta   
6-3, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Give us your thoughts on the match.  
JOHANNA KONTA: I mean, it's always tough playing Karolina.  There's rarely really a rhythm to the match.  She plays with big shots, quite flat, and big serves.  It can feel sometimes you're fighting an uphill battle.  That was the case today.   
I just thought she didn't really have a letdown throughout the match.  She played very consistently.  I found it quite hard to get a footing into the match, which is credit to her.   
But equally I thought I actually did the best I could really.  I didn't do too much wrong today, so...  Yeah, it's disappointing.  Obviously I would have loved to have won the title.  I also have a lot to be proud of this week.   
 Q.  First time you played her on clay in a long time, maybe an ITF way back.  How different is she as an opponent on clay?  She hasn't had her best results recently but...  What differences did you see from her on this surface?  
JOHANNA KONTA: To be honest, I don't think the surfaces make as huge of a difference as you guys might think.  I think her serve is equally as effective in a different way.  I think she was obviously using her kick serve more, as well, which kicked quite high today here.   
I mean, her shots are still flat, they're still big, quite deep.  It was still just as difficult to really try and get her out of position.  She reads the game very well.  Movement-wise, I mean, I think that's her biggest strength.  Movement-wise, she is reading the game well.   
 Q.  You must be quite happy for the week, the results in general, going ahead?  
JOHANNA KONTA: Yeah, I mean, I'm definitely pleased with this week.  I think, like I said, I've got a lot of things to be proud of and take away from it.  I mean, I think every week I've really just been building on each match that I've been playing.  This is my second final in three weeks.  That's still quite an achievement.  I'm quite pleased with that.   
I think, yeah, I'm looking forward to Paris.  I'm looking forward to keep going.  I'm looking forward to every day, yeah.   
 Q.  On the breakpoint that you did have at the net, did you see her racing over to cover the line at all on the inside-out?  
JOHANNA KONTA: I did, but I'd already hit the shot by then.  She held her position quite well.  I may not have held mine for long enough.   
 Q.  Just wondering if you saw her and...  
JOHANNA KONTA: No, no.   
 Q.  So far this season we see many different winners, upcoming players on the tour, new champions.  Nobody is dominating at this point.  How do you see the situation?  Do you think it gives you more opportunity to win a big title?  What's happening on the WTA Tour now?  
JOHANNA KONTA: I mean, what's happening is that it's great.  It's awesome I think.  What's happening is that we have a lot of players to enjoy watching.   
I think it's what everyone should be looking forward to, every fan, to know when you turn up to a tournament, the first rounds, they're all going to be exciting, entertaining.  People come to watch us for entertainment.  It's a very good thing to have.   
The fact that nothing's guaranteed, that makes sports exciting.  If you're showing up to matches and you know 99% of the outcome, it can get quite boring and repetitive.   
I think it's exciting to have challenges from all different players for big titles, for each match.  You can see so many champions in the Grand Slams of the past few years have come from match points down in early rounds to come through and win slams.   
I think it's a very good position we find ourselves in.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT