INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA
May 17, 2019
Johanna Konta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
J. KONTA/M. Vondrousova   
6-3, 3-6, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Welcome to the semis.  Talk through the match today, what were the tricky moments, and what do you think was the key to getting it done?  
JOHANNA KONTA: I knew going into the match that Marketa, she's very comfortable in long rallies and getting balls back.  I knew she has the ability to really be able to read the game and make things quite tricky.   
I definitely was looking to really exercise patience and just also try to build my points, really trust what I was doing out there, and enjoy trying to find a solution to the different problems that she brings, which she brings many.   
She's very talented and really gifted in the way she plays.  I was just pleased that I was able to do that and also raise my level a little in the third set because it was pretty even, especially in the games.  I lost to her once before, so I was under no false illusion going into the match.   
Yeah, just really pleased I got through.   
 Q.  She's a young player that maybe fans might not know very well, but on tour people are aware of her talent.  For someone that played her twice now, can you explain what makes her so dangerous as an opponent?  
JOHANNA KONTA: I mean, she gets a lot of balls back.  I think she reads the game quite well.  I think you have to definitely show some patience and some understanding and acceptance that she's going to find ways to get out of situations which you wouldn't necessarily expect.   
Definitely I think, yeah, she reads the game very well and has just a good instinct for playing matches.   
 Q.  For you, what do you take out of making the semifinal here, biggest semifinal since Wimbledon, continuing on the momentum you seem to be building since Miami?  
JOHANNA KONTA: I mean, one, I'm happy to have come through three tough matches here, just really pleased to be entering the last stages of the tournament.  Every tournament that I play, I want to be in it till the very end.  I'm pleased to still be here.   
Really looking forward to an opportunity to play a player like Kiki.  I played her in Indian Wells, where I lost to her.  I know she's playing some of her best tennis.  She's at her career-high ranking right now.   
I'm just really looking forward to the opportunity of playing one of the best players in the world, and really enjoying the tennis that's going to be played.   
 Q.  Are you surprised to find out that this is probably one of the first years there are no British journalists?  Normally in Rome it was always full because of Murray, other people.  I don't see anyone.  
JOHANNA KONTA: Is this your question?   
 Q.  What does that mean for you?  They didn't trust you enough, your chances, or you think this is related to the economical crisis of the British newspapers, or you think that Roland Garros is too close?  What is your feeling about it, if you feel sorry, tennis is not great enough, women's tennis, whatever?  
JOHANNA KONTA: I mean, it's a very unexpected question (smiling).   
I don't really have much of a thought on it.  I've played plenty of tournaments where there haven't been British journalists around.  I think generally they look to play the numbers game, as well.  They go to tournaments where there's more than one British player participating, I assume.   
I don't know anything about the British newspaper crisis.  I don't know anything about it.  Yeah, I mean, I'll be seeing them in Paris anyway.  I saw them in Madrid.  I see them plenty.  All good.   
 Q.  Do you think if you go on as you hope, there will be good coverage in the British papers?  What do you expect, if anything?  It is a big tournament, Rome.  
JOHANNA KONTA: I'm really pleased to be in the semis.  I mean, yeah, no, I'm very happy to be here.  I don't know.  I don't really follow media or the press when I'm playing tournaments.  I'm not too sure.  I don't know.  Sorry.   
 Q.  With the win today, your run in the last few weeks, looks like you'll be seeded at Roland Garros.  From your perspective, having been seeded at slams, and not, is there a difference for you?  Is that a meaningful thing?  
JOHANNA KONTA: I mean, it would be very nice if I was seeded there.  That's a nice pat on the back for the matches I've been able to come through.  That's always a nice feeling.  The only thing that differs is you don't play the big names on paper.   
However, I mean, as we've seen for the last number of years in first rounds and second rounds and every round, it's never straightforward.  There's a lot of dangerous players on the tour who are not maybe at the seeded ranking yet or have the ability to play very well on any given day.   
To be honest, there's not much difference.  Yeah, there's not much difference really.   
 Q.  There were some players in the men's tournament that were complaining about the courts, some found they were too slippery, some too slow, big difference from one court to another.  What is your feeling?  The organization, were you also stuck two days ago until 7:30 waiting?  What do you think about it?  Some players said this is not the same stage that other tournaments like this should have.  
JOHANNA KONTA: I mean, I'm fine (smiling).   
To be honest, when you have a bad weather day like you did a few days ago, that's out of everybody's control.  That's just the way it is.  We have that throughout the year, where you have days that are just rained off.   
Every organization at the time, including this one here, does its best to accommodate the players, but also as players recognize, they also have to accommodate the business side of it and fans.  We're here to entertain people.  There has to be a good balance of accommodating us but accommodating everyone else, as well.   
No one's ever going to get it perfect.  Not everyone is going to feel like it's gone their way.  I think what we learned through this whole process is to be quite malleable and crack on and roll with the punches because plenty of them come along the way.   
I mean, in terms of the courts, I've been fine.  I think clay is always tricky.  I don't think I've ever played at one clay event where every court is the same.  I think there's always going to be slight variances.  I think it's normal for the surface.   
But from what I've seen, I think the groundsmen have been doing a good job with the clay, especially preparing them after that heavy downpour.  Yeah, I think everybody's in the same boat.  Everyone has to adapt to the different variances what they get on the court.   
 Q.  Kiki, the challenge of playing her.  Thinking back to the matches you played against her, what are the challenges she presents that maybe are unique to her, maybe not?  She plays a little bit different than a lot of players by my eyes.  I don't know if that's how you feel.  
JOHANNA KONTA: I think, I mean, she has things she does very well.  She serves very well.  I think she reads the game very well.  She has a good eye.  But I don't think she necessarily plays very different.  I mean, everyone has their strengths and weaknesses.  Yeah, like I just said, going into it I'm going to expect her to be able to hit big.   
She also adds variation into the game.  I think she has a good feel for when to do what, also just to read where the ball is coming.  Yeah, I'll be prepared for her to be playing very well and also be very trusting of what she's doing.   
She's coming off a lot of big wins, big tournament wins, career-high ranking.  She's going to be playing with a lot of trust in what she does out there.  That always makes any player that much more difficult to play and dangerous to play.  There's less of a letdown for them.   
Just looking forward to really, yeah, playing a good match against her.   
 Q.  Do you remember the last time you had to play a match on your birthday?  
JOHANNA KONTA: Last year.  Every year it's here.  I pretty much have played a match on my birthday every year for the last number of years.  It's always during this week.  Last year is lost to Ostapenko, but it's nice I won this year.   
 Q.  Delayed celebration plans?  
JOHANNA KONTA: I'll probably celebrate when I get home.  It's a quick turnaround for me now.  I'm first on at 12 tomorrow, so yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT