INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA
May 16, 2019
Johanna Konta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
J. KONTA/V. Williams   
6-2, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Two very nice wins.  Talk about the challenges of a day like today, what it was like this morning, how you feel about both those wins.  
JOHANNA KONTA: Whew, that was a lot in one question (smiling).   
Well, I mean, first of all, most of us were in the same boat with getting washed out yesterday.  Most of us were facing the potential of playing two matches today.  So I think everyone and I was trying to stay it one step at a time.   
I knew I had a tough match against Sloane.  I just went into that match really trying to do the best that I can.  I was pleased with how I was competing.   
Although getting ahead in the first set, I mean, as you would expect with Sloane, she's such a great player, had so many unbelievable results, she's going to find a way to raise her level and come back.  That's what she did.   
I was just pleased that I was able to just keep going really in that second set, come through, just build on my level.  I thought I played a very good third set.  To come through that match, come back again this afternoon, I was looking forward to playing Venus again.  I hadn't played her since last year, so for a little while.  I played her once before here.   
I mean, I always enjoy being on court with her.  Just pleased to have come through that match as well, two tough opponents.   
 Q.  You changed coaches in the off-season.  Talk us through what differences that has made?  Also I see the strapping on your arm.  Anything to be concerned about?  
JOHANNA KONTA: No, I mean, if you were to walk around, you'll see most players with ice on them somewhere.  No, that's nothing.  Just literally icing.  I was icing my knee before, as well.   
But, yeah, no, I started working with Dimitri actually in Moscow last year, so a little before pre-season.  Along with him and Dan, yeah, I'm surrounded by some great people.  I'm really enjoying the work we're doing.  I feel like I'm learning and growing on a daily basis, which makes my profession satisfying for me and makes me excited to go to work in the morning.  I like to be immersed in that process of development, so I'm enjoying the work we're doing for that.   
Yeah, overall I think, yeah, I'm enjoying the people I have.   
 Q.  Anything specific they've done?  
JOHANNA KONTA: I mean, specific?  Well, we're definitely looking to add -- not necessarily add but use more variety in my game.  I mean, it's no secret, you can see kind of the way I play.  I'm playing with a little more variety, a little more awareness and trust in my ability to do different things.  Trying to use that in the right proportion during matches.   
 Q.  Some solid results on clay this season.  Whether it's the variety, your coach is familiar with the surface, but how different do you feel this year playing on this surface compared to years past?  Is it confidence from getting match play or do you feel you've hacked the surface, figured it out?  
JOHANNA KONTA: I mean, I've always trusted my ability on the clay.  I think for me not to have as strong of results as maybe the other surfaces over the last couple years, to be honest, it was mainly an issue in the press room, nowhere else really.  I mean, actually as a junior, even as a young professional on the tour, I won most of my titles on the clay.   
I'm just pleased that I've been able to adapt and adjust.  I feel I can be just a bit more efficient on the surface, which has helped against the quality of opponents I'm coming up against.   
I think, yeah, I've also given myself time to get better.  I feel that I'm able to, yeah, just play some good tennis right now.  It happens to be on the clay, so that's good.   
 Q.  What does it mean to you to make the quarterfinals here in Rome?  You'll play either Dasha or Marketa in that quarterfinal.  Talk about through those potential matchups.  
JOHANNA KONTA: Well, I've been to the third round here for a number of years, so I'm very pleased to have gone one further.  I love being here.  I've always enjoyed coming to Rome, even outside of tennis.  It extends my trip here, which is nice.  Hopefully keep extending it.   
 Q.  And the gelato is good.  
JOHANNA KONTA: Actually, the gelato on-site is really good (smiling).   
I played Dasha last in Moscow on the indoor hard.  She's a great player, great competitor.  I know she likes this surface as well.  I think that will be a tough match if I come up against her.   
Marketa, I think the last time I played her was in Indian Wells maybe last year.  I mean, she's also very comfortable on this surface.  To be honest, I mean, whoever you play right now, you're going to have a tough match literally from the very first round to the very last.   
Just looking forward to whoever it is, having a good match tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT