AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 18, 2019
Johanna Konta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
G. MUGURUZA/J. Konta   
6-4, 6-7, 7-5   
(Transcribed from recorded audio.)   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  What is it like starting that late?  
JOHANNA KONTA: Not ideal for anyone.  I don't think it's ideal for anyone to do any physical activity when it's bedtime.  But it is what it is.  Both of us were in the same boat.  We both had to deal with the same challenge.   
 Q.  Talk us through how the evening progressed, what you did.  Did you try to eat before, have to judge that?  
JOHANNA KONTA: Of course.  I prepared as usual.  I mean, we knew it was going to be a later start, to be scheduled after a men's match, a best-of-five match.  Even if it would have started on time at 7, you're still looking at two to three hours.  I wasn't expecting to play any time before 9 or 10 anyway.  I still prepared the same as that.   
Obviously the men had a couple of really tough battles out there.  That really pushed our schedule down.  But, yeah, I just stuck to the usual routine of preparing for an evening match.   
 Q.  They were going to move you to Court 3 at one stage.  
JOHANNA KONTA: Yes.  Once Zverev and Chardy went to the decider, to the fifth set, we were actually going to go out to Court 3 to start.  There was basically seagull pooh everywhere.  They had to clean the court.  By the time they would have cleaned the court, we would have been in the same boat anyway.   
 Q.  Would you have liked for the match to have been moved earlier to a different court?  
JOHANNA KONTA: I think ideally, both of us would of wanted to play earlier.  This is no one's ideal schedule to play in the wee hours of the morning.   
Again, we don't make the schedule unfortunately.  We both dealt with the same challenge.   
 Q.  Does it make you upset you had to go on after midnight?  
JOHANNA KONTA: Again, not ideal.  However, we were both in the same boat.  I mean, I think it's more important to focus on the level of the match we had because it was actually a very good match.  It's unfortunate more people couldn't enjoy it during the day.   
Yeah, I think it was just unfortunate in that sense.   
 Q.  We haven't seen you hit that fluently for maybe a couple of years.  What do you think about the level you played?  
JOHANNA KONTA: I think, yeah, I played a great match.  I think a lot to do with the level of match is also chemistry between two players, the way two game styles match up.   
Garbine and I, I think every single match we've played has been three sets.  We obviously do feed off each other's game quite well to push each other to play at a higher level.  I think that came through tonight.  Doesn't guarantee every time we play we're going to have epic battles.  It just shows some game styles match up better than others in terms of the kind of tennis it can create.   
 Q.  Do you think it was a performance that will give you encouragement in weeks and months ahead?  
JOHANNA KONTA: I'd like to think so.  I mean, I take every opportunity to learn from every single match.  I would have liked to have won this match and learned from it.  But it didn't go my way.  But I'll definitely be looking to just keep looking forward as I usually do.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT