NATURE VALLEY INTERNATIONAL
June 27, 2018
Johanna Konta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








C. WOZNIACKI/J. Konta
4-6, 6-1, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Despite your losses in singles and doubles, do you feel there is a lot of positives you can take from this week?
JOHANNA KONTA: Definitely.  I think I got another two great singles matches.  Got the added bonus of getting some doubles in, as well.
I think I had a good win yesterday against Aleksandra and had a tough match today against Caroline.  I felt like I did a lot of good things, some things I would have liked to have done better, but I need to be -- I need to be happy with the progress that I'm making, which I definitely am.
Q. A lot of players call their coach on the court when they are in a losing position, but you seem to do that when you are leading.  Is there any reason behind that?
JOHANNA KONTA: I haven't noticed.  I haven't noticed, so I guess there isn't (smiling).
Q. You had a good start against Caroline.  That first set went really well for you.  What changed in that match in the second set?
JOHANNA KONTA: I think she started playing a bit better.  I think I might have taken some pace off my ball, which also let her in that much more in using her strengths, and that's her legs and how well she's able to move and run down balls.  So I think that was just a little bit of shift in momentum and in the dynamic that way.
But there was a lot of close games in that second set, so there was a 6-1 set, but there wasn't much in it for it to be a bit closer.
Q. How would you assess your form overall going into Wimbledon?
JOHANNA KONTA: It's the best it's been this year.  So I definitely feel I'm getting better and better.  That's all I can ask of myself.  I put in the work every day in everything that I do to make that so.
So I'm really looking forward to playing at Wimbledon.  It's the best tournament in the world, so I'm looking forward to taking part in it again.  Yeah, to keep competing hard.
Q. How far are you from where you'd ideally like to be going into Wimbledon?
JOHANNA KONTA: I'm exactly where I should be.  I don't think I -- I don't set an ideal of what I think I need to be or how I think I should be or feel or play.  I think there is a lot of other things that play a factor in how a player does.
I don't know what my final destination is.  I don't know when I retire what will be my peak performance (smiling).
Q. A lot of points to defend coming in to Wimbledon.  Does that add pressure to an already pressurized situation?
JOHANNA KONTA: No, actually it doesn't bother me at all.  We are in a very fortunate position in tennis that every week is an opportunity to gain points, so I'm looking forward to the Championships.
Won't be the same as last year.  Even if I make the same round, it will still be a different experience.  It will be different challenges, different triumphs.  I'm looking forward to that challenge.  Most importantly, I'm going in there with the intention of being there till the very end, but just really fighting bloody hard every point.
Q. In Paris you said you don't have a plan B.  You try to make plan A work all the time.
JOHANNA KONTA: Did I say that specifically?
Q. Yes.
JOHANNA KONTA: Really?
Q. Yeah.
JOHANNA KONTA: Okay.
Q. I just wonder, though, do you approach every match differently, or do you actually go in with pretty much the same game plan?
JOHANNA KONTA: Well, I'd like to elaborate on that a little bit, because I have my identity as a player.  I look to play my game.  I look to be offensive.  I look to move forward and take time away.  That's how I play.  That's going to be how I play regardless of who I play, because that's how I play my best tennis.
But if certain things aren't working, I will still look to play the same way, but however, I look to give myself more margin, use the middle a bit more, just kind of play the odds a bit better.  But my intention of how I play stays the same, if that makes sense.
Q. So you have a range of shots and strategies?
JOHANNA KONTA: Yeah.  You know, when you're feeling great, you're moving the ball around that much more, but when you're looking to really kind of claw your way into a match, you play percentages a bit more.  I personally look to use big targets a bit more, get my foothold into the match.
Q. A quick question on the doubles.  How did you end up teaming up with Babos?
JOHANNA KONTA: Well, we both speak Hungarian.  And we haven't played since back in challengers.  I think we won a 25K in Mexico once, and I have always wanted to play with her.  It's just never come about.
Obviously she's so successful in doubles and so she has always, this year in Mladenovic, a consistent partner.  And Kristina didn't want to play this week, so Timea asked me, and I said, Sure.  It's good fun.
Q. The Wimbledon seedings came out today.  Can you tell us your thoughts about Serena Williams being put in at the 25th seed?
JOHANNA KONTA: I think it was something that was always in the pipeline, from what I understand, and I know that it's at the discretion of the Grand Slams to do as they wish with the seeding.  So I don't think it's any surprise.
Q. You said you're pretty happy with your form at the moment.  What has improved?  What's turned things around a little bit for you, do you think?  Some of your results the first half of the year weren't as good as you might have hoped.
JOHANNA KONTA: Well, yeah, I mean, it's interesting, the last couple years puts things in perspective a little bit, as well, because I did exceptionally well the last couple years, and it's always going to be measured up to how I did then.
But I think coming off the challenges end of last year and really not winning a match after Cincinnati, I had to work very hard on finding that competitive edge again and finding that strength within me to really be able to fight hard and fight the right way.
I think I have been consistently doing that better and better as the season has gone on.  I think I'm becoming tougher and tougher in matches.
You know, it's not an upward trajectory.  I'd like to think it goes like this (pointing upward, smiling).
So, yeah, I think overall I'm becoming just a bit more solid as each match goes on, as each week and day goes on, that we put in the work, and that's why I'm pleased, because I feel like I'm becoming more also strong in how I want to be as a player.  I think my identity is a bit clearer now than even I think it was last year.
Q. You've had some really tight matches against a lot of top 10 players.  The last seven you've won the first set and gone on to lose.  What do you think is behind that?  Is that something you're conscious of?
JOHANNA KONTA: No, I mean, it's not something I'm conscious of, but thank you (smiling).  I mean, I think the credit you need to give the top 10 and the players at the very top of the game is the ability to consistently play their level and to also raise their level.
I think that's what I'm working towards, to getting back into that position where I'm able to play the kind of level that obviously I can produce in the first set and play that over three sets and really ask that question of my opponent of being able to beat me in that way.
So, yeah, I think what sets the top 10 apart from everybody is the consistency of their level in each match they play, and that's what I'm working towards, as well.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT