AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 16, 2018
Johanna Konta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J. KONTA/M. Brengle
6-3, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How did it feel out there?  Looked like you sort of got more comfortable as the match went on?
JOHANNA KONTA: Good.  I was actually really enjoying being out there.  It was a nice day.  It was sunny.  It was quite a full stadium.  There was a lot of people.
Yeah, I kind of tried to absorb the atmosphere a little bit.  I was really excited to play.  I was really looking forward to playing actually her.  She brings different sorts of difficulties.  I thought it was a great first round for me to fight through and battle through and stay strong in the way I wanted to play out there.  And I feel I did that.
I think overall I'm happy with how I was able to compete.
Q. What happened the last couple of years that's allowed you to grow your game?  This is someone who's beat you three times in other events a few years ago.  Now you have beaten her the last couple of times.  What things in your game have evolved?
JOHANNA KONTA: I think I have become physically stronger.  I have matured physically but also emotionally and mentally.  I think Madison is the kind of player who does ask a lot of questions of the people she plays.  She gets a lot of balls back.  I think you need patience to also play with her.
For me, personally, that's definitely one thing I have gotten better at over the years.
Q. She said that you two were quite good friends.  How come you have sort of become close to her over the years?
JOHANNA KONTA: Oh, well, we have been good friends for a long time.  I remember since junior US Open back in 2007.  So we have been friends for a long time.  We obviously spent quite a bit of time, we were pretty much at the same stage playing a lot of the challengers in the U.S.  So we were spending a lot of time together as well.  She started doing really well a little before me.
But, yeah, we just get on really well.  We share passions in books, and, yeah, we're just good friends.
Q. You came to the net quite a few times today.  Was that a strategy you went into the match with or just the way it turned out?
JOHANNA KONTA: No, definitely I knew I had to stay very strong in my identity of how I wanted to play.  I wanted to make sure I was trusting in my shots regardless of where she was in the court and looking to move forward.  I knew that was how I was going to give myself the best chance of creating opportunities.
She gets a lot of balls back.  As you saw in some of those points, yeah, I think that's definitely in her comfort zone.  I wanted to make sure I was playing most of the match in my comfort zone.
Q. Which books have you shared with her?
JOHANNA KONTA: Oh, so, I mean, literally anything and everything.  Most recently I'm reading 'The Red Queen.'  Who's it by?  But she recommended it.
So anyway, for Christmas and birthdays, she's literally always getting me books.  Yeah, I'm always getting her Molton Brown.  It's a nice tradeoff.
Q. How much do you know about your next opponent?
JOHANNA KONTA: I don't know.  Sorry, who am I playing?
Q. Bernarda Pera.
JOHANNA KONTA: I know who she is.  And I know what she looks like, because -- no, no, it's important.  Sometimes you know the name but you don't -- I know what she looks like because I feel when I was actually still playing on the challenger circuit when she was around there, as well, but I don't really know much about her.  I will talk to Michael soon enough.
Q. You said on Twitter that you were really sad that you left blueberries...
JOHANNA KONTA: Oh, my goodness.  I don't want to talk about it.  Honestly.  I messaged everybody.  Literally everybody on my team.  Has this happened to anyone else?
I went to the supermarket to buy blueberries.  I only bought blueberries, two pints.  I left two pints of blueberries there.  It's $5 I won't get back.  It's actually more the betrayal in my own mind I feel so upset about.  I was so sad.
Q. (Indiscernible.)
JOHANNA KONTA: Clearly I'm not over the blueberry debacle.
No, I'm happy to come through today and I'm just looking forward to playing again on Thursday.  I now need to go again to buy blueberries.
Q. You went to the shop?
JOHANNA KONTA: I went to the shop and left them there.
Q. Left with no other shopping?
JOHANNA KONTA: No.  Literally I only went to buy blueberries.  I don't know where my mind was.
Q. When did you realize I haven't got my shopping?
JOHANNA KONTA: When I was already changed into my PJs and thinking, wait a second, where's my blueberries?  Oh, my gosh, I know.
Q. Apart from stocking up on more blueberries and having somebody to take them home for you...
JOHANNA KONTA: Well, no, you'd think I would learn from this, and now I will not forget blueberries again.
Q. But apart from that, is there anything different you have to do now to prepare for the heat wave building up?  You should be playing 37, 39 degrees your next match.
JOHANNA KONTA: Well, I think it's very similar to every other match we prepare for.  Obviously with more emphasis on hydrating well and making sure I have enough fluids and energy in me.  It's the on court, using ice towel and really kind of getting on with it and almost not paying too much attention to the heat of it.
Q. I know everybody has to go through it here and there will be very hot days and cool days here, but is it something you slightly dread when you come to Australia or something you just take in your stride?
JOHANNA KONTA: No, I think I take it in my stride.  I know it's a part of it.  Everyone who comes here know that it's going to happen at one point or another.
And again, you just acknowledge that's going to be one of the factors, one of the challenges of the day, but then you get on it with it.  It's the same for everybody.  It's, yeah, you try to just take care of all the things that are under your control.
Q. What's Michael brought to your picture?
JOHANNA KONTA: Well, he's a really great guy.  He's really funny.  It's been a really good team atmosphere with all of us together here.
So that's been really fun.  I really like his perspective and the way how actually -- he seems to always be able to say the right thing at the right time, and I think it's because all of the intuition he coaches with but also he understands prematch jitters, he understands different thoughts that might go through your head at different stages of a match or leading into a tournament.  So I think he's quite in tune with ebbs and flows of those sorts of things, so he's able to guide me in a positive direction.
Q. Did you see the 'Battle of the Sexes' movie?
JOHANNA KONTA: I have, yes.
Q. What did you think of it?
JOHANNA KONTA: I thought it was a great movie.  It's nice to see that such a famous moment in history, and in our history, in the women's game is portrayed and so many people outside of this community are able to see such a great time for us.
Q. How do you think female players should take Billie Jean's legacy forward?  Do you think it's by being strong on the court and projecting equality, all of that stuff, or do you feel you should also off the court speak about issues and things that are important away from the sport?
JOHANNA KONTA: I think that varies from individual to individual.  I think we're always going to be able to do the best if everybody stays authentic to themselves.  If someone feels passionate about a topic, then they can be passionate about it, but I think it's -- yeah.
I mean, I think it's important that we keep pushing for the game to keep moving forward, because, yeah, without that desire to keep progressing, keep improving, and we don't want to be stagnant with everything, not just the women's game, you know, all different sports, companies, you're constantly looking to get better, to, yeah, stay current.
Q. With all the money and the points and everything offered, is it hard to do that when there's contracts on the line and all of that stuff?
JOHANNA KONTA: I don't quite understand.
Q. Now you play for a lot of money.  You know, there is so much more at stake in terms of financially.  Is it difficult then to, you know, come off the court and speak about things like you're passionate about when you know that your bank account can be affected in even more ways than it was before, I guess?
JOHANNA KONTA: Why would it be affected?
Q. Because there is so much more money on the line now than there was then.
JOHANNA KONTA: I don't quite understand.  I mean, I actually don't understand the question.  I mean, all I can say is -- actually, I don't understand.  I don't understand.  I'm sorry.
Q. You maybe risk your endorsements or sponsors if you...
JOHANNA KONTA: If you speak about something controversial, you mean?
Q. Yes.
JOHANNA KONTA: I mean, that's the kind of world we live in today, though.  I think there is always a fine line of making sure you stay politically correct but then also making sure you're doing your own beliefs justice.  I think it's always trying to find that middle ground.  I think I generally speak my mind.  I think I do it in a respectful way.
I think as long as you're passionate about something but you are respectful towards others, I think that's the best anyone can do.
Q. Do you think it's an important part of the heritage of women's tennis that there have been so many pioneers, risk takers, not just Billie Jean but, oh, I don't know, Althea, Venus, Martina, Shahar Peer, many others, who have really been risk takers for athletes and have spoken out?
JOHANNA KONTA: What's the question?
Q. The question is:  An important part of the heritage of women's tennis, and is it important to you?
JOHANNA KONTA: Yes, again, I think it's a very individual thing.  There's always going to be players who are more outspoken, more passionate about certain subjects than others, but that doesn't necessarily mean that one of them is better than the other.  It's just a different personality, a different, yeah, different passion in life, really.
I mean, I think it's important that we keep driving the women's game forward, and I think everyone does play their part in that, whether you are outspoken about it, or whether you portray yourself in a professional manner, on court or off the court.  I think all the women on the tour do their part in their own way.
Q. You have been somewhat of a late bloomer in tennis.  Are you a late bloomer in other parts of your life?
JOHANNA KONTA: That's a loaded question (smiling).  No, I'm laughing with you.
Well, I mean, I didn't kiss a boy...  Sorry (smiling).
I guess so.  Yeah, I mean, I didn't chase boys when I was young.  Sorry.  But, yeah, I guess I am a late bloomer in that sense.  Yeah, I don't know how to answer this without going into details.
Q. Did you walk late?  Some kids walk late.
JOHANNA KONTA: Oh, I don't know.  I don't know that.  I could tell you this but this would be an awkward conversation for everyone else to hear.  I was this stage when I got my period -- no, I'm joking.  (laughter.)






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT