AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 13, 2018
Johanna Konta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How are you feeling?  Are you totally 100% now, injuries behind you?  
JOHANNA KONTA: The one in Brisbane?   
 Q.  Yes.  
JOHANNA KONTA: Yes (smiling).  Just clarifying.   
Yeah, no, what happened in Brisbane, that actually got better quite quickly, a lot quicker than I thought.  It felt fine in my match in Sydney, as well.  Since then, just looking after the body as usual.  Yeah, so far so good.   
 Q.  What are the differences in approach that you've noticed so far in the time you've been working with Michael Joyce to, say, your previous coaches?  How does he go about things?  
JOHANNA KONTA: Well, it's hard to do a complete comparison because I've always changed slightly with my approach.   
 Q.  How?  
JOHANNA KONTA: Well, I'd like to think that I'm getting older and wiser.  I'd like to think that I have a little more experience in the way I approach different challenges, kind of with basically anything, I think.   
But he is very relaxed.  He was a player, so he comes, with a lot of things, from the perspective of when he played as well.  I think he can empathize a lot with some of the challenges and difficulties you face kind of pretournament, or in matches, or in practice, even in training, how you're feeling.  Yeah, he can empathize with that.   
He also I think coaches with a lot of feel, a lot of kind of intuition, which I think so far I'm really enjoying spending time with, yeah.   
 Q.  What can you tell us about Madison Brengle?  
JOHANNA KONTA: She's a tricky player.  She has beaten some great players.  I think her game style is definitely a tricky one to play.   
I've played her twice in WTAs and I think I played her a couple times, I don't know how many, back in the ITFs.   
 Q.  It says here you retired in the ITF matches.  
JOHANNA KONTA: Possibly.  I don't know.   
But I think the last time we played was in Indian Wells, because I remember I think I beat her then.  I think that was the first time I beat her, as well.   
But I think, definitely, if one thing's for sure, you never go up against her underestimating her.  She is incredibly tough in the way she competes, the amount of balls she's able to get back.  I'm going in preparing for a tough match.  I'm looking to try to implement some of the things I've also learnt from possibly last week, even my three matches in Brisbane.   
But, yeah, I'm looking forward to playing.   
 Q.  Brisbane was quite challenging for you in terms of the matches you played, coming back from a set down.  How much does that remind you of when you had your run here, you came back from a set several times?  Does that give you a lot of confidence that you have that old edge back?  
JOHANNA KONTA: I'm trying actually not to think too much back on how I did here last year or how I was even feeling here last year.  I'm coming into this year with slightly different challenges than I was end of last year.  I feel very actually conscious of really appreciating being back and playing, and almost being grateful for the challenges that I have now.   
I'm also working through the challenges that I faced end of last year, trying to really just get back in the match routine of things, trying to get back into the level I want to be playing consistently.   
That can take time, that does take time, but I'm hoping that I can play my way into it, yeah, try to stay here as long as I can.   
 Q.  You're not being singled out here, we're asking this question to every player.  
JOHANNA KONTA: Oh, okay, wow.   
 Q.  I'm sure you've seen the television and the papers today.  
JOHANNA KONTA: Actually, I haven't.   
 Q.  Billie Jean King came in here yesterday and was questioned on the whole Margaret Court situation.  Billie Jean said that if she were still playing today, she would refuse to play on Margaret Court Arena.  Do you have any strong thoughts on this subject at all?  
JOHANNA KONTA: In terms of scheduling, I will play wherever I'm scheduled.  That's out of my control.  I will look to be prepared for whatever court I'm playing on.   
But respect to the controversy that's surrounding that, I don't agree with what Margaret Court said.  However, she's entitled to her own opinion.  But, again, in terms of playing, if I'm scheduled to play on Margaret Court, I will go out there and compete.   
Again, it's a tournament decision where they put me.   
 Q.  Do you think her name should be removed from the arena, as Billie Jean King was saying?  
JOHANNA KONTA: Again, I think it's a Tennis Australia decision, I believe that is.  I think it's unfortunate that this whole thing has even occurred, because it does overshadow why her name is on the court.  It's not because of her beliefs, it's because of her achievements in the sport.  It's unfortunate it's kind of meshed together when they're actually quite separate.   
But, yeah, again, not my decision.   
 Q.  Do you feel like it puts players in an uncomfortable position?  Everyone has been asked about this today.  Everyone who goes out there will be having this hanging over them.  
JOHANNA KONTA: I think most of us, if not all of us, once the schedule is out, we're going out there to play, regardless of what court we're on.   
Yeah, I mean, it's not nice to be answering these sorts of questions in press.  It's not really what this tournament is about.  It's not what these sorts of sporting events are about.   
They're about equality, they're about showcasing men and women, wheelchair tennis.  Yeah, kind of celebrating tennis in that way.   
 Q.  Do you feel like you have put the difficulties at the end of last season behind you?  Is there still any hangover from that mentally?  Have the matches that you've had already kind of helped you to address that?  
JOHANNA KONTA: I mean, you can never answer that question fully because you never know.  You never know what's around the corner.  You never know what kind of challenges come.   
I mean, I'd like to think that I'm definitely further along than when I was before Brisbane, and even further along when I was in Sydney.  I think even that match in Sydney has helped me along my way in really trying to, yeah, play at the level that I want to play.   
I mean, I think it's time.  I think a lot of it will get better and better with time.  But, yeah, I think the rest that I had end of last year already helped with a lot of the issues that I was faced with.   
 Q.  How big a deal was it that you actually won that first match in Brisbane, given the run you'd been on?  I imagine that was a pretty big relief.  
JOHANNA KONTA: Yes and no actually.  I wasn't putting the be-all, end-all on that match, nor am I putting the be-all, end-all on any of these matches.   
I think I feel confident enough in my own ability that I will get back to and I will be playing the level that I want to play and even better than that with time.  However many matches I win or lose in between that is not going to change the course that I feel I'm on, I want to be on, want to perform at.   
Yeah, I did win a match before, though, in Thailand, so...  No one remembers that one (smiling).  It meant a lot to me, though.   
But, yeah, so I am looking also at the funny side of it.  I mean, losing is a part of sport.  Losing in succession is also a part of sport, every sport.  I think as long as I'm clear on the kind of tennis that I want to play, I'm clear on my progression, how I want to improve, I give myself the best shot of minimizing those things.   
 Q.  Were you able to put your finger on what was going wrong in that period last year when you were losing some of the matches, I think against Ash Barty and Monica Niculescu?  
JOHANNA KONTA: Those two matches were very different.   
I think besides the physical struggles I was having with my foot, which definitely hindered my ability to stay as present and as focused as I wanted to on court because of the pain I was having, the worries, and everything, that all kind of snowballed and accumulated.   
Then it was also just a case of my tolerance as a person.  I kind of hit a bit of a wall.  I kind of just wasn't able to roll with the punches really any more.  It was basically just a bit overwhelming.  I couldn't quite find that head space that you need to find when you're being tested day in, day out, or trying to be at an event.  I couldn't quite find that head space that I wanted.   
Therefore, it just shows the margins are so small in these events.  There's really not much in it on who comes through and who doesn't.   
 Q.  When you're in that head space, what drives you to kind of carry on if you're feeling that bad?  Is there any part of you that wants to stop and take a break?  
JOHANNA KONTA: Yes.  I think actually, I mean, end of last year was a combination.  It was a combination of my foot and a combination of me kind of needing to take a break.  They kind of went hand-in-hand.  It was easier to say, You know what, actually I need to take a step back here.  But in previous years, actually stuff that you guys don't even know, because it isn't documented because no one cared (smiling), but when I was around 150 for a long time, there were periods when it was incredibly hard, where you go through, yeah, emotions of whether you can still do this, whether you are even any good at this, whether it's just awful.   
It's easy to catastrophize a lot of things as well when you're so immersed in this bubble, which is tennis, it's really easy to kind of catastrophize everything.  I'd like to think as I've gotten older now, I do a bit better with that.  Again, if I don't take enough time, if I'm not aware enough of where I am mentally and emotionally, don't pick up on those moments where I'm going to take a day here, yeah, it can be overwhelming.   
I'm still on that learning curve.  I definitely learnt a lot last year.  I'd like to think when I'm creeping towards kind of hitting my limit, I know I need to take maybe an afternoon off or something, and we won't get to a point where I need to take a long time off.   
 Q.  Michael Joyce, you said he coaches with feeling, intuition.  Could you elaborate on that?  
JOHANNA KONTA: Do you play tennis?   
 Q.  Yes.  
JOHANNA KONTA: Okay.  It's a genuine question because it's important.   
It's when you're on court, the feeling you get of when someone is talking to you is they're talking from experience, they're almost talking to you about feelings and talking to you about intentions.  It's not so specifically to -- not so analytical about a specific shot.  It's more to do with what you're trying to do with the ball.  It's two different perspectives.  It's like what are you trying to accomplish, what are you trying to do with this ball, instead of more racquet head speed.   
 Q.  And Wim was kind of the opposite?  
JOHANNA KONTA: Not necessarily.  Wim also coached with some intuition as well.  He's definitely more analytical in his approach.  At the time I worked with him, it was also a really valuable tool for me to have then.   
No, I think it more comes down to where I am in my own development.  Right now actually the way Michael is working with me is really good for right now.  For last season, Wim did a great job with me.  It was really good for right then.   
 Q.  With Andy not here, at home in the UK there's obviously a lot more focus on you.  Is that something you can ignore?  Can you embrace it?  Does it matter?  
JOHANNA KONTA: It's something you really don't feel.  It's like an 11-hour time difference.  It's nice to see so many of you here (smiling).  I guess that has something to do with it.   
But I think it's sad not to have him here.  It's nice to see he had such a positive message after he went in for his surgery, I saw on Instagram.  If anybody is going to be back at the top of their game, it's going to be him.  His drive and passion for this sport is second to none.  I like to think he'll be back, while I'm shouldering the burden.   
 Q.  You don't feel more of a burden of expectation than you would normally?  
JOHANNA KONTA: Not particularly.  I'm coming into the event like all the other events:  I'm here to do the best I can with the challenge that I'm faced with.  I'm here to give it my best.  Where it gets me is where it gets me.  Obviously, it would be nice to be here two weeks later, chatting to you all.   
I will be doing my best to be in that position.   
 Q.  Obviously no Serena.  A lot of people seem to be saying this tournament could be perhaps even more open.  
JOHANNA KONTA: What does that mean?   
 Q.  There's more people that you think, She could win it, she could win it.  
JOHANNA KONTA: Okay.   
 Q.  How do you see it?  
JOHANNA KONTA: Because whenever I get asked that question, it always comes across in really kind of an almost negative way instead of acknowledging how many great players we have.   
 Q.  It's not meant that way.  
JOHANNA KONTA: Could we work on rephrasing that question?  Let's work on this together (smiling).   
Yeah, I mean, the championships, is open in the sense there's so many great players.  The depth in women's tennis I really do believe in the last few years has gotten so strong.  You just see it in every round, in tournaments, in slams.  There's so many massive first rounds, tough second rounds.  There's no straight sailing to the quarters or semis any more.  It doesn't exist.   
That's not specific to a Grand Slam.  That's the same in Brisbane.  I played Madison Keys first round.  Even Sydney I played Agnieszka.  It's exciting for the fans that bought tickets.  They know when they're coming, whatever day they bought tickets, there's going to be great matches on.  I think that's exciting.  That's what they pay their money for:  to see an entertaining game of tennis.  I think we are providing this entertainment.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT