U.S. OPEN
August 28, 2017
Johanna Konta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. KRUNIC/J. Konta   
4-6, 6-3, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How much of that was down to her playing very well and how much down to you not playing as well as you had hoped to?  
JOHANNA KONTA: I think, I mean, credit needs to be given to both parts.  I think with all due respect to her, she played very well.  She played consistently much better than I did.  I think she was able to raise her level throughout the match, and mine fluctuated a little bit up and down.   
So I think in terms of effort and fight, I competed until the very last point.  I think the level of tennis by her was just better today.   
 Q.  Did you just not quite feel it with your game?  Your first-serve percentage was pretty low.  How were you feeling out there?  
JOHANNA KONTA: I mean, I don't think I necessarily played my best tennis today, but my opponent also had something to say about that.  She played very freely, I felt, and she moved incredibly well.  She made it very tough for me to be able to get any easier points.   
So I think that's very much credit to her and how she was able to move on the court.  I think she definitely played with not very many errors.  Definitely less than me, I think.  But I think overall, yeah, I think just the level of tennis of hers was just better today.   
 Q.  Did you sense any similarities with your French Open defeat?  
JOHANNA KONTA: I think actually, no, I didn't think of the French Open while I was playing.  I was very much involved in the match that I was playing.   
I mean, I think the similarities are that I did lose both matches.  However, the players are different.  The surface is different.  So I try not to draw too many comparisons between the two, but it's definitely not an easy loss to take.  I would have liked to have involved her for much longer.   
I think it's also important to give credit where it's due, and that's due to how my opponent played and also give credit to the level of tennis in general and how many girls are able to play well.   
 Q.  How much is it a shock to your system, given how well you have been doing in recent years, to suffer a defeat like this so early?  
JOHANNA KONTA: Well, I guess I got some practice in at French Open (smiling).   
I mean, I don't take anything for granted.  I think it would be quite obnoxious of me to come in here expecting I have a right to be in second week.  For me to get that opportunity ^  but how I did at Wimbledon is not something I bring into every match I play.  The tennis season moves on quickly.  We are very spoiled in that sense that we get a lot of opportunity week in and week out to perform and to play.  Also, we've got four slams.   
So I think we are very spoiled as a sport like that, but again, I had an incredible Wimbledon experience, but I have moved on since then.   
 Q.  I realize you're very caught up in your own preparation, but this is the first slam without Andy Murray playing, as well.  Does that make any difference? II did you feel any sort of extra pressure or extra responsibility?  
JOHANNA KONTA: No, my only responsibility is towards me and towards the work I do and make sure I do myself justice, and also the team around me who work very hard alongside me.   
I have no control, no full control over the outcome of any match.  I have control over the things that I bring to the match, so I felt I really competed as best as I could.  I definitely would have liked to play better, but again, I think my opponent came through because she was the better player today.   
 Q.  First-round match by nature has a little extra unpredictability about it?  
JOHANNA KONTA: I think first rounds in every tournament, and especially at slams it can be tricky, can be difficult.  I think everyone, for me personally, finding their footing and finding, playing yourself into the tournament, into the match at present.   
Again, I think she played quite freely, and I think she was able to fight her level much quicker and moreH consistently than I.   
That's credit to her for dealing with the situation better than I did.   
 Q.  I'm not sure if you had a chance to speak to Andy at all, during his short time here?  Did you wish him well in his recovery?  Are you sad to see him struggling with his...  
JOHANNA KONTA: I did see him actually briefly I think in the gym -- actually, I can't remember when.  I did see him.  Of course, I mean, Andy's an incredible champion, so I think with putting aside my personal feelings obviously not seeing him around, I think the general tennis community and the fans are definitely wishing he was here.   
 Q.  I know it's very early, but do you know what you'll do?  Will you play doubles?  
JOHANNA KONTA: No, I'm not playing doubles.  I will be heading home as soon as possible, and then getting ready for the Asia swing.   
 Q.  Is it quite a goal from here, putting aside today, is it quite a goal to try and sort of make the field in Singapore, the top 8?  
JOHANNA KONTA: I mean, for me, the goal is to stay healthy, for one, and play a full season, but to keep trying to get better.  I think if anything today gives me a great opportunity to do just that, and I've got still a few tournaments left in the season, and if Singapore is in the cards for me, then I will take it and be very grateful.  If not, I will take what comes my way.   
 Q.  What will you do to shake off the effects of a loss like this?  What will you do just to clear your head?  
JOHANNA KONTA: I think not /KA it was /TROE /TPAOEUZ is important.  At the end of the day, it is a tennis match.  It's a sport.  I think to have a healthy perspective on that, in general, goes a long way.   
But otherwise, I'm looking forward to going home and spending some time with my parents.  I haven't gotten to do that much, so I think being home is always good for the soul.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT