US OPEN
September 3, 2020
Johanna Konta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. CIRSTEA/J. Konta
2-6, 7-6, 6-4
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
Q. Great start to the match.  How do you explain how it went?
JOHANNA KONTA:   Well, my opponent played better than me.  I think that's really about it.
I obviously started better.  I think my level was a lot higher than hers in the first set.  But she's a great player.  She's had some pretty amazing results also in the past in her career.  She's capable of playing some very good tennis.
She obviously raised her level.  We were battling kind of toe-to-toe really.  She just was better in the end.
Q. She seemed to serve really well in big moments tonight, not giving you a lot of chances on key points in the match.  Were you surprised by the level she showed?  Serving like Serena at times.
JOHANNA KONTA:   Surprised?  No.  Frustrated?  Obviously.
To be honest, I think what we've seen time and time again in every tournament is that these are the best players in the world, so on any given day they can play incredible tennis.  Obviously the higher you are ranked, the more consistently you are able to play that level.  However, everybody's capable to play some really amazing tennis.  That's what she did.
Q. Was there anything you felt you should have done differently tonight?  Or do you feel like she just really showed up in the big moments?
JOHANNA KONTA:   To be honest, not too sure yet.  To be frank, I did the best that I could.  I really fought hard.  I really tried to find a way to kind of hopefully get her out of the rhythm of playing that well.
I mean, I'm sure there will be definitely some things that maybe I can just try to do at different times.  But I do think overall she was just the better player in the end.
Q. You've been so close so many times at the Grand Slam level.  Do you still retain the belief you can win one at some stage in your career?
JOHANNA KONTA:   Yeah.  Yes, I do.  That's why I keep playing.  That's why I keep training.  Yes, I do.
Q. What are your plans for the clay court season?
JOHANNA KONTA:   Not fully certain yet.  Obviously the French.  But we'll see kind of before then on what's the plan really, kind of what awaits when we get back home.  I don't really know what the procedures are of everything as well right now either.
Q. Do you know what the situation is with quarantine back in Europe?  Are you confident that you can fly home or fly directly to Rome without having to serve a period of quarantine?
JOHANNA KONTA:   As far as I understand, I'm fairly certain that because I'm coming from an elite bubble to enter another elite bubble, i.e., the NTC when I go home, all I need to do is get a test done before I enter the NTC.  I do know to go to Italy, to go to Rome, you have to have a test done I think within 72 or 48 hours.  I don't know.  I think it's something like that.
I think, yeah, I can, but I guess we'll see (smiling).






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT