AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 30, 2017
Johanna Konta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








An interview with:
JOHANNA KONTA
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Tell us about your injury and how you feel literally on the eve of Wimbledon.
JOHANNA KONTA: Well, I think most importantly for me right now is just to look after my health in general.  I obviously had a bit of a nasty fall yesterday, so I made the decision based on the fact that I'm quite sore through my thoracic spine and just basically looking to make sure that I recover in the best way possible.
Obviously next week is Wimbledon, but I made this decision according to my health, regardless of what tournament is coming up next week.
Q. Did you have a bad night?  Did you wake up stiff or sore?
JOHANNA KONTA: I didn't sleep too well, but I think that's normal, I have heard, after falls.  But we made this decision, actually -- pretty much we left it as late as possible to see how things develop this morning, but I just felt that it wasn't quite right.
Q. Which area is the thoracic spine?
JOHANNA KONTA: It's the upper back.  It's through kind of -- yeah, through the spine, basically.
Q. Can you move your neck or your head?
JOHANNA KONTA: I can move my neck.
Q. Can you target how long it would normally take to recover from a fall like this?
JOHANNA KONTA: We're not 100% certain yet.  I think things will become clearer in the next kind of 24 hours of how we manage things, but the most important thing right now will be that I rest very well today over the next 24 hours, and then we'll see.
Q. Are you worried about Wimbledon?
JOHANNA KONTA: I'm not thinking that far ahead right now.  Right now I'm taking this next 24 hours, and I'm looking to rest well and to make sure that I get my health back to the best place possible.
Q. Can it be treated with massage or rest?  How do you manage that kind of injury?
JOHANNA KONTA: Right now, for the next 24 hours, I'm just looking to really be resting.  I'll be at home.  No screens, no books.  Just to really try and sleep well.  I didn't sleep well last night, so just try and rest well.
Q. Today you're not going to London?
JOHANNA KONTA: Not for today, no.
Q. By saying you're looking in the next day or so, people will read that and read into that maybe that you're not very comfortable about Wimbledon.  Would that be an unfair thing for them to think?
JOHANNA KONTA: I think people will read into it whichever way they want right now.  I'm resting for the next 24 hours and that's all it is.  What happens in the following 24 hours and the following 24 hours after that, I'll see once this 24 hours is up.
Q. People want you to be there, and you've obviously got a lot of fans and people backing you.  If you look at what's happening with Andy Murray having a sore hip at the moment, can you see we get a bit worried about our top players not being in the best of health?  If there is a crumb of comfort you can offer, that would be great if you've got one.
JOHANNA KONTA: Right now my priority is to look after myself, quite honestly.  I'm looking to just make sure that I'm in a good place physically and health-wise to be able to compete next week, but more importantly just to be in a good place health-wise.
Q. Obviously getting so far in your home tournament, there's such good home support, you must be...
JOHANNA KONTA: It's definitely not an ideal situation.  I came through a very tough day yesterday.  Like the other girls, played a lot of matches.  It would have been nice to have competed today against Karolina.  I played her in the same stage last year.  It would be a nice battle again to have, but again, most importantly is my health regardless of the tournament next week, regardless of this week.  Our seasons are very long.  I'd like to think that I still have many years left in my career, so most importantly is just to look after my health.
Q. (Question off mic.)
JOHANNA KONTA: I have already had one.  Not today.  Earlier in the week.  No, I'll be heading home after this.
Q. Are you aware of the Wimbledon draw this morning?
JOHANNA KONTA: No, I'm not.  I'm not looking right now.  I'm just making sure that I'm recovered.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT