THE CHAMPIONSHIPS WIMBLEDON
July 2, 2017
Johanna Konta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Judy Murray last week said female tennis players should talk about things other than sport to raise their profile, rather than just be on the back pages.  Does that attitude frustrate you at all when male tennis players aren't expected to talk about fashion or the Kardashians?  
JOHANNA KONTA: That's quite an opener (laughter).   
To be honest, I'm actually quite certain that male athletes talk about their other interests.  They talk about the sports that they're into, or they talk about their families, I guess whatever creative questions you people come up with to ask.   
I mean, I enjoy talking about things that I enjoy.  I mean, I'm pretty sure I spend just as much talking about food in my press conference as I do about tennis, so...   
 Q.  You and Andy have given us quite a scare this week.  He says he's fit enough to play seven matches.  Do you feel up to your form?  
JOHANNA KONTA: I'm definitely recovering really well.  I'm taking it a day at a time.  I practiced today.  I felt good.  I'm definitely looking forward to playing my first round.  Like Andy, I'd like to think that I'm fit enough to play seven matches, but I'm going to be taking it one at a time.   
 Q.  How is your thoracic spine?  
JOHANNA KONTA: No, it's much better.  It was most important to just make sure that I was well enough through the chain, and my body.  Definitely it was medically the right decision to not continue playing in Eastbourne, to give my body that chance to recover.  It was a bit of a traumatic fall on the body.   
But, no, it's been going well.  Again, I hit today, felt pretty good out there.   
 Q.  You get another crack at Hsieh, this time on a surface that actually suits your game slightly better, but she's still quite unconventional.  What are your thoughts going into the match this time around?  
JOHANNA KONTA: It's quite interesting that I actually get to play her again.  I guess in terms of the probability of playing each other first round in a slam in a row, that's actually pretty cool.   
Well, I know she does enjoy the grass.  She's a Wimbledon champion in doubles here on the grass, so she definitely can play on this surface.  Actually, the first time I played her, I lost to her on the grass.   
I'm definitely going into the match knowing that she will be playing very comfortably on the surface, she will definitely look to make things difficult for me.   
I'd like to think that I'm also better prepared.  I'd like to think that I will be going into the match with a clear game plan and trying to execute that as best as I can.   
We'll see how it goes.  But I'm looking forward to playing.   
 Q.  When did you make your final decision that you were going to be playing this year?  Did you leave it right to the last minute?  
JOHANNA KONTA: When I was going to be playing what?   
 Q.  Here at Wimbledon.  
JOHANNA KONTA: I never was thinking that I wasn't going to.  If that ever was going to be the case, then that was going to present itself.  But I tried to just focus on getting better and getting prepared.   
 Q.  You've had quite a quick rise to the top of the world of tennis.  How are you and your loved ones coping with the pressures of the public eye?  Who will we be seeing this week cheering you on from the stands?  
JOHANNA KONTA: Well, I think my loved ones are doing quite well (laughter).  I don't think they're necessarily feeling any sort of pressure.  I mean, I think as a family we are quite orientated -- process orientated, just really looking to aid me the best they can to work the best that I can.   
I'm hoping my family will be around.  I think they are working some of the days, so I'm not too sure.  But I'm hoping they'll be around tomorrow.   
 Q.  Could you tell us maybe in layman's terms what exactly was the injury from the fall in Eastbourne.  
JOHANNA KONTA: Well, I fell on my back.  Then my head whipped back, as well.  I was sore kind of through my thoracic spine.   
 Q.  Were you checked for a concussion?  Did you have a concussion?  
JOHANNA KONTA: No, I was checked and I was cleared.   
 Q.  The injury obviously wasn't the best way to finish your Wimbledon buildup.  How did you feel generally during the tournaments you played?  You seemed to be getting better with each week.  
JOHANNA KONTA: I think I had three great matches in Eastbourne, again.  I had a very full-on Thursday, as did all the other players.  I think everyone played two matches that day, so it was a long day for everyone.  I got to play against two Grand Slam champions, the reigning French Open champion, and also the No. 1 player in the world.   
I felt that I was tested in very different ways, two completely different players.  I was quite happy with how I was able to adapt between those two matches on the same day.   
But overall I'm coming into Wimbledon with some great time on the grass against some great players.  So, you know, that doesn't guarantee anything here results-wise, but I definitely have prepared the best I can to perform here.   
 Q.  On a similar theme, obviously things were going so well, then that fall.  It must have been a real shock.  Do you feel that's disrupted the momentum you had from Eastbourne?  Can you put that behind you and carry on?  
JOHANNA KONTA: I'm not sure how it could have disrupted.  I don't think it has necessarily any effect unless I'm physically unable to play.  That's the only way it can disrupt.  As of now, I feel good to play.  I'm looking forward to playing.   
I think I had great matches into the leadup to here.  I can't complain too much.   
 Q.  How does the pressure this year compare to previous years?  Obviously your profile has improved quite a lot in the last couple years.  Do you feel more expectations this time around?  
JOHANNA KONTA: Well, I guess because my expectations continue to be my own, continue to what I judge myself on, my own journey, my own focus, in that sense not much has changed.  I do try to keep myself around my own people, around the mentality that I want to be around.   
But I know there's, I guess, more attention, and there's more interest in my performance.  But that's also a good thing.  It means we're talking more about women's tennis in this country.  I guess another great way of promoting our sport.   
 Q.  Do you have any favorite moments or memories from Wimbledon as you were growing up watching?  
JOHANNA KONTA: Well, actually my favorite memory is actually the first time I got to play in the women's draw.  I had a very, very long match against Christina McHale.  In the end I lost 10-8 in the third.  It was the first time I'd ever experienced, for example, stopping because of light.  It was starting to get too dark.  It was just little new experiences for me.  That was probably, yeah.   
 Q.  Andy and also Tim Henman were two sort of homegrown players who rose to the challenge very well of all the pressures and expectations heaped upon a British player.  Have you ever had any conversations with either of them or sought out their wisdom on how they coped with it?  
JOHANNA KONTA: Quite honestly, I haven't spoken to either of them about their experiences here.  I think it hasn't -- the occasion hasn't quite presented itself.  We do live quite different schedules.  The amount of times we actually cross paths is quite seldom.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT