AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 29, 2017
Johanna Konta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
J. KONTA/A. Kerber   
6-3, 6-4   
 Q.  How are you feeling after that fall?  
JOHANNA KONTA: I'm feeling actually not too bad.  I got checked out and I've got no signs of concussion.  That's the most important thing.  Just got a bit of a sore head.  Just hope to have a chill evening, and I'm sure I'll pull up well tomorrow.   
 Q.  What actually happened out there?  
JOHANNA KONTA: I slipped, and I fell backwards.  First my back and then my head went back on the ground.   
 Q.  You must be delighted with that win.  
JOHANNA KONTA: I'm overall happy with the day.  It was a long day.  Not just for myself but for all the players.  Played a lot of tennis today.  So I'm just happy that I was able to make it two out of two.  But most importantly, I felt I competed well in each match, and I played two very different players so I was quite happy with how I adapted, as well.   
 Q.  First time you have beaten Kerber?  
JOHANNA KONTA: Yeah, the first time I have beaten her, so that's a nice accomplishment for myself.  Overall I'm just happy with the day.   
 Q.  Where would you say your game is at the moment?  
JOHANNA KONTA: I think I'm adapting well.  I think that's why I mentioned that the, I guess, the players that I played today are very different, so I was able to adapt from one match to the next and just keep staying very present and competitive.  I'm happy with that.   
 Q.  You beat two Grand Slam champions in one day.  
JOHANNA KONTA: Yeah, it looks good on paper, but obviously there is a lot of work that went into it.  It's another day tomorrow.  I'm just happy to give myself another chance to be in the semifinals here.   
Like I said, I have been checked and I know that everything is okay.  Just looking forward to having a chill evening and recovering well for tomorrow.   
 Q.  What a day it's been, to beat the French Open champion and to beat the world No. 1 both in one day.  You have to say it's been a fabulous day for you.  
JOHANNA KONTA: It's a very nice accomplishment, and I am very proud of it and very happy with my performance today.  I was happy with how I was able to adapt between the two players.  They play very, very different.  That's not easy to do.   
I was actually back on court two hours later.  I am very happy with how I was able to come back and reset and compete again the second time.  Overall I'm happy to have given myself another chance to come back tomorrow.   
 Q.  Physically, I guess it's not so difficult to play two matches in one day, but mentally it must be much more difficult to prepare for that?  
JOHANNA KONTA: Both physically and mentally.  Obviously we work very hard, all of us, to be prepared to be out there for as long as possible.  It's only under rare circumstances that we play more than one singles match in a day, so in that sense it is still physically challenging and mentally challenging, but like I said, I do work quite hard to be able to deliver.   
 Q.  You're into the semifinals, which you were last year.  How much would it mean, particularly in Eastbourne, your hometown, to win the title?  
JOHANNA KONTA: It would be really nice to stay here for the full week.  I have a very tough opponent tomorrow, someone who plays very well on this surface, on the grass, and someone who I have had very, very tough battles against in the past.   
I know that going into tomorrow that it's going to be no different.  I'm just going to go out there and try to play at a good level and really try and enjoy the match.   
 Q.  We nearly had two match points at the same time with Heather Watson, two Brits into the semifinals, a great achievement ahead of Wimbledon?  
JOHANNA KONTA: I think it's great and also great for Heather.  And, yeah, she's a great player.  I don't think there is any doubt in that.  So it's great that there are two Brits in the semis and the crowd tomorrow get to watch two Brits back to back.   
 Q.  And Pliskova tomorrow?  
JOHANNA KONTA: I played her in the semis last year and I have had many tough battles again against her.  I know that going into tomorrow it will be very much the same story.  I'm looking forward to the challenge and looking forward to playing against her.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT