AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 26, 2017
Johanna Konta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How good is it being back home after Birmingham?  
JOHANNA KONTA: Oh, it's really nice.  I haven't actually spent that much time in Eastbourne over the last couple months, so it's actually really nice to be back here, to be with mum and dad a little bit.  The weather is really nice today.   
I heard the forecast isn't as nice for tomorrow, but hopefully that changes.   
 Q.  Have you practiced already?  
JOHANNA KONTA: Yeah, no, I have been practicing here since I came down on Friday.   
 Q.  With the weather as it's been this summer, do you notice the courts, are they playing any faster than they would normally?  Not just here but just generally on grass.  
JOHANNA KONTA: Quite honestly, no.  I mean, obviously the drier the weather the harder the courts generally become, but it's not as soft, but I haven't noticed a massive or really dramatic difference.   
 Q.  What sort of shape do you feel you're in at this stage and with Wimbledon looming?  
JOHANNA KONTA: I think I'm actually feeling really good.  I'm healthy, I'm enjoying playing, I'm enjoying, again, trying to get as many matches as possible heading into Wimbledon, but in general, each tournament, trying to really maximize my time in each one.   
But overall, I'm enjoying the grass.  I'm enjoying trying to figure out how to play better on it, how to adapt to it well, and just continue to also work on getting better.  Overall, I'm enjoying it.   
 Q.  At Wimbledon there is that thing you want to get a bit further than you have gone before?  How much into your thinking does that come?  
JOHANNA KONTA: Right now, not too much.  I'm here in Eastbourne.  I definitely want to stay here as long as possible (smiling).   
But I'm sure once I finish here, then I will look to prepare for Wimbledon.  But then you know me, as well, I try not to take anything for granted and really just looking to be prepared for each match that I play on its own.   
 Q.  Do you look back at all at the tournaments you have played, Eastbourne last year, Wimbledon, when you're preparing, is that part of your preparation, how you performed at that particular event in the past?  
JOHANNA KONTA: Not particularly, unless it's specific to an opponent or a match, if I played them on the same surface in, like, maybe a year ago at that time, possibly.   
But not particularly, because I'm also continuously growing and continuously evolving.  My game, I believe, is changing, as well.  I'm hopefully maturing as well mentally, and my opponents are, as well.  They are getting better, as well.  I think there is a lot of moving parts that change circumstances.   
So it's a fine art of how much you look back and also into the present to find the right mix to be prepared for an opponent.   
 Q.  There is a continuing love affair and the folk down here in Eastbourne.  Is that worth a point or two or a game or two, or do you shut it out when you're actually playing?  
JOHANNA KONTA: Are you just talking about the home support?   
 Q.  Yes.  
JOHANNA KONTA: Well, I love that centre court over there.  I have had some of my earlier big wins on there, and I have had a lot of great matches on that court against a lot of great players.   
Overall, besides the fact that the grass is unbelievable on there, I enjoy playing in front of the crowd here.  I think generally I look to do the best that I can to give them a great match to enjoy, really.  I think they have been fortunate that I think they have enjoyed a few matches that I have played, but hopefully I will be giving them a few more this year.   
 Q.  Andy Murray's form is up and down for him this year.  Are you ready for the expectations that are likely to come on you as the other British hope at Wimbledon?  
JOHANNA KONTA: My only expectations are of myself, and those are very personal to me.  There is always going to be external expectations and external opinions, but no one can please everyone in the world.  I'm playing tennis because I love the sport.  I'm playing tennis because I want to be the best at it that I can.   
But that's not necessarily going to be what everyone wants or expects, but I think if I continue to do the best that I can, I will enjoy my career and I will maximize what I have.   
 Q.  Are you confident you can book that out?  It gets pretty intense on British competitors at your kind of level at Wimbledon.  
JOHANNA KONTA: Well, I think I have a great group of people around me.  I am very clear on what's important to me, so I'm definitely trying the best that I can to stay very much in my own space, my own head space, really.   
Just trying to focus on things that I know help me stay in a positive way and stay in a productive way.  So I think, yeah, I'm doing the best I can to stay as much on my own process as I can.   
 Q.  You must know this area pretty well.  Is there anything you look forward to doing off court?  
JOHANNA KONTA: Just being at home.  I enjoy being at home.  I'm very much a home body.  Mum and dad have been cooking for me, so that's really nice.  Yeah, just spending time at home.   
 Q.  What meals?  Anything in particular?  
JOHANNA KONTA: Well, mum has been making this chicken stew, which is really nice.  And just, I mean, really mundane things, but it's nice being prepared for.   
 Q.  Did you get a chance to watch the Birmingham final?  Wondering about your thoughts on Petra's comeback.  
JOHANNA KONTA: I didn't.  I didn't get a chance to watch it.  I think it's incredible, and I think it puts so many things into perspective and I think it's just a truly humbling thing to see.  Yeah, I mean, it shows that, you know, life is about a lot more than just tennis.   
 Q.  What's the technical adjustment that you have to make on grass?  Like is it the bounce?  Is it the skid?  What is it that makes it challenging that you have to adjust to?  
JOHANNA KONTA: Well, there is definitely the way the surface plays.  The balls do come lower, so you do get sore having to get lower at the very beginning.  But then there is also I think a mentality adjustment.  Things can move quite quickly on the grass, and sometimes the margins can be very small and the momentum shifts can be very quick, as well.   
So I think it's kind of relaxing into that, as well, and accepting that.  I think for me also personally staying true to how I want to play out on the surface and what I look to achieve out there.   
 Q.  As you know, with the redevelopment due to be finished in 2020, the club is bringing out a charity book with funds going for Rally 4 Bally and cancer research.  Wondering if you have a warm memory or anecdote we could include for the book about your experiences here at DP.  
JOHANNA KONTA: Oh, that's a bit of pressure on that one.  Can I think about that?   
 Q.  Of course.  
JOHANNA KONTA: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT