AEGON CLASSIC
June 19, 2017
Johanna Konta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








An Interview With:
JOHANNA KONTA
MODERATOR: First questions for Jo.
Q. Congratulations on watching the Nottingham final.  Can you talk about how important it is for you to get such a head start on grass?
JOHANNA KONTA: I think it's not just for me personally.  I think everybody looks to try and get -- or most people, I think, try and get as much time as possible on the surface heading into Wimbledon.  Again, it's a short season, so for me I'm just looking to play as many matches on the grass and look to adapt well.  Heading into Wimbledon battle, so really enjoying each of the opponents well.
Q. You don't feel you're going to be overtired by the time you get to Wimbledon?
JOHANNA KONTA: I am not anticipating that, no.  I mean I train very hard to be able to withstand a lot of matches.  But again, I think if we are at that stage, I'm pretty sure that's also a very good problem.
Q. Have you been able to internalize how the match went yesterday?  You said you take the next couple of days to assess how a match went and what happened.  What can you take from the match yesterday?
JOHANNA KONTA: It hasn't been a couple days yet.  (Laughs).  But yeah, no, I've gone through things with my team.  I think it's not just the match yesterday.  I think overall we assess how the week went and all the things that we felt that I did well and all the things I can do better and just, I think, as with every week, every tournament, every match, just looking to keep getting better from each one.
Q. Were you pleased how you held up on the grass last week?
JOHANNA KONTA: I'm very happy with how I was able to -- I felt I adapted well each match.  I think I actually played a lot of really good grass court players as well.  So I'm quite pleased on how I was able to deal with some of the challenges they were throwing at me.  And I think overall it was also nice to play a few matches in succession.  I hadn't done that in a little while.  So overall I felt it was a positive week for me and also a great week from which to learn from.
Q. Do you feel you've got the game to do well on grass this season?
JOHANNA KONTA: I think game style wise I don't necessarily see myself better suited to any particular surface.  I mean I do maintain the fact that I enjoy all surfaces.  And I think for me right now this period of time is enjoyable for the fact that it's at home, but obviously I do enjoy the grass as well, but most importantly, I'm just looking to adapt well on the surface and just really compete well each tournament that I get to play.
Q. I imagine this might be the most attention and focus on you that you get, coming after big wins like Miami and so on.  Is that something you prepared for and talked about with people around you about dealing with all the expectations there's going to be?
JOHANNA KONTA: I think the things that we focus on with my team are to very much stay in my own process and my own bubble.  My approach to my game and my approach to my career doesn't change according to what's happening outside of me.  So I think in terms of that, we're just very much staying in the process and also just keeping things in perspective.  I'm out here just trying to be the best player that I can be.
Q. Now that you're becoming an established Top 10 player, do you find that other players further down the rankings are raising their level as well?
JOHANNA KONTA: I've actually said this for quite some time now.  I think the depth in women's tennis is getting better and better.  I mean almost pretty much week to week, I think.  I think a lot of players are showing their strengths, and yeah, I think it's actually an exciting time as well.  It challenges all of us, and it also I think makes for a lot of high-quality matches.
Q. At this stage in the season do you have any sort of aims toward the tournaments to achieve on the grass court season?
JOHANNA KONTA: I think I sound like a broken record to you guys, but again, I'm looking to compete the best that I can each week.  I've committed to a full grass schedule, and I am hoping to physically stick to that.  But otherwise looking to just really, yeah, compete the best that I can each match that I play.
Q. And do you think some of the fans will see some of your best tennis this summer?  Do you think your fans here now will see you in your best form?
JOHANNA KONTA: I think we shall see.
Q. You hope so, though?
JOHANNA KONTA: Again, I'm -- regardless of where I am, what level of tournament I'm playing, regardless of my opponent, regardless of the surface, I am always trying to do my best.  I'm always trying to play at the best level I can play.  So again, we'll see how that goes.
Q. Is Wim here with you?
JOHANNA KONTA: Yes.
Q. How does it work on the weeks that he's not here with you?  Do you talk to him or?
JOHANNA KONTA: Well, actually, one of my favorite things about our setup is my team communicates very well.  So we have designated group chats.  And they constantly get renamed according to where we are.  But we have great communication going through.  So Andrew does a great job communicating with Wim as well.  And essentially they are both working with me.  But yeah, now the team's back together here.  But overall I think they're working very well together as well.
Q. Is there a thing about competing in the UK that's nice, being able to watch your favorite TV show or is there anything about home comforts of life that you like playing here?
JOHANNA KONTA: Well, I've said this actually a couple of times.  I get a massive kick out of not having to get on a plane and just get to drive to events, just even from Nottingham down to here, just to put myself in the car, not have to pack a specific way to meet airline regulations or anything, just actually throw stuff in the car and drive 50 minutes and here I am at the next event, that's pretty good.
Q. Do you personally when you go into a situation where you have a big crowd that's behind you, do you handle that well?  Do they spur you on or does it grate against your nerves?  How are you at dealing with that?
JOHANNA KONTA: I think neither here nor there.  I've always said that I actually -- I love playing in front of people.  Whether the crowd is for me or against me, I think most importantly we are entertainers.  People pay to come watch us perform and give them hopefully a good match.  So that's always a nice feeling when people are around and they're there to watch you give your best.  And I think that's really how I feel about crowds.  I just like it if there are people around.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT