INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA
September 17, 2020
Johanna Konta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  J. KONTA/I. Begu
 6-0, 6-4
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. I really want to get your take on your experience for the bubble hopping:  Lexington, New York, now you're in Rome.  Has it met your expectations or been more difficult than you thought it would be?  How are you holding up as we get into the clay court swing?
 JOHANNA KONTA:   I think it's differed a lot just in terms of -- okay, not a lot.  But it's definitely differed according to where we have been.  Obviously the protocols are pretty much the same, but it's still going to be slightly different.  Especially coming back to Europe now, I think it's going to be slightly different to the U.S.
 But I think it's probably been as difficult and uncomfortable as expected, but then at the same time, I think it's because there is that expectation that it's not going to be quite what we're used to until now we're kind of getting used to it, I guess, and it's at least an opportunity to play.
 So I think, you know, you know going into it that you're here to kind of eat, sleep, and play, really.
 Q. How is the experience personally for you in terms of finding your best tennis?  I know you had a little bit of physical difficulties in Lexington, but do you feel it's possible for you to get to where you want to be as a tennis player again, or again, are you flying by the seat of your pants and hoping for the best?
 JOHANNA KONTA:   I mean, no, I think I'm building on each match that I'm playing.  I think obviously it was a tough match for me in Lexington, but then I think I definitely built on that.  I had a really good Cincinnati tournament in New York.
 Then, you know, it would have been nice to have gone further in the Open, but I lost against a very tough opponent on the day in Cirstea.
 So I think there was a lot of good things for me to take from that trip and hopefully to now build on that on the clay here in Rome and then going into Paris.
 But it is a very different, very strange, very unorthodox kind of mini season for us.  So it is going to be a lot of flexibility, a lot of, you know, we're going to have to stay very adaptable.
 I definitely think there is no reason why I can't keep building on my level and play good tennis.
 Q. Can you look ahead to facing Garbine?  I know you have played a lot of three-setters, had a lot of tough matches.  How excited are you to get a chance to face her on clay?
 JOHANNA KONTA:   Really excited, actually.  We have never played on clay, I don't think.  Like you said, we have had plenty of battles.  Hopefully tomorrow will be another great battle.
 But she's also won a lot of matches this year obviously pre-COVID period, making it to the finals of the Australian Open.
 I mean, she's definitely played some very, very good tennis this year.  That's the Garbine I'm expecting to play tomorrow, a very in-form, very confident, and, I mean, she's always been a great player.  It will be a great challenge and a great opportunity for me to play her again.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT