AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 25, 2017
Johanna Konta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. WILLIAMS/J. Konta   
6-2, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How did you find the challenge of Serena in your first meeting?  
JOHANNA KONTA: Well, I think it was probably one of the best experiences of my life.  I think there's so many things I can learn from that, so many things I can look to improve on, also acknowledge some things that I did well.   
I think, credit to her, she played an almost perfect first set.  I felt she really did incredibly well.  I mean, yeah, she just showed and shows why she is who she is.   
 Q.  What is it like facing a Serena first serve?  
JOHANNA KONTA: She's able to really hit her spots incredibly well.  So the way she's able to open up the court, it really makes the court very big.  And also she obviously has tremendous power, force, and speed.  Yeah, I think she's covered all bases.   
 Q.  You said there were some things you felt you did well, other things you can improve on.  Can you expand on that a bit?  
JOHANNA KONTA: I definitely would have liked to have served better today.  I don't think I was able to fully maximize things on my end there.  But I felt I actually did a decent job at neutralizing her serve.  Given there's only so much you can do against a serve like that, I thought I did reasonably well.  Still, lots to improve on there, as well.   
Also I felt, physically, I didn't feel that I got pushed too far back, which I was quite happy about.  But, again, yeah, lots of things.  Hopefully I'll get the chance to play her again and do better.   
 Q.  Does the weight of her ball or the feel of her ball when it comes to you feel different?  
JOHANNA KONTA: I think she plays with a lot of speed more than anything.  That's how I felt, that the ball off her racquet comes quite quickly.  I think it was more I needed to get used to and also do better at just adjusting quicker, yeah, just adjusting to, yeah, the quickness of the rally more than anything.   
 Q.  She was very aggressive, especially on returns.  Was that partly perhaps why you didn't serve as well as you wanted to, because of the pressure?  
JOHANNA KONTA: If it was, it would have been a subconscious thing.  I'm sure, to a certain extent, it has something to do with it.  But I don't think she's ever played a match where she hasn't been offensive on her return.  I think it's a given.  You know that going into a match against her.  Even if you haven't played her before, like I had, I knew that she's going to be imposing herself in every possible way.   
 Q.  How do you go away and prepare for a serve of that quality?  Do you train with big guys to serve at you?  How will you prepare for that in the future?  
JOHANNA KONTA: Well, mostly also keep doing the things that I'm doing and look to just get better and more solid and that much stronger on my returns, physically stronger, making sure that I can time things a bit better.  Yeah, again, keep maximizing the little things.   
 Q.  You said before the match you'd only know when you got out on court how you would handle the psychological challenge of facing someone like Serena.  Were you able to separate the player from the success and the titles?  
JOHANNA KONTA: I felt I did actually okay with that.  I definitely would have liked to have probably have a bit more say in the match than I did.  But unfortunately that's also so much to do with Serena herself, the kind of tennis that she plays.   
I don't think there's one player on tour that goes up against her and feels like they've got much of a say in the matches.  That's what she's very good at, the way she's able to dictate and the way she's able to really make sure that the matches and the points are on her terms.   
 Q.  It's sometimes said that Serena's serve is the best stroke in the game.  There's so many great strokes.  But would you say that?  How does it compare to other serves?  
JOHANNA KONTA: I mean, of course, I think that's a more well-known fact.  I don't think I need to confirm that.   
Again, what I said before.  For me, what I felt, is just her ability to really make the court very big.  The way she's able to use her angles.  Also it's not easy to read her serve.  She's able to hit all her spots.   
I think when someone's able to do that, it's difficult to find a rhythm of feeling out where they're going.  Yeah, again, the way she's able to open up the court.   
 Q.  What was the hardest thing playing against her?  Was it her serve or just her overall groundstrokes?  
JOHANNA KONTA: I'm pretty sure it's more the whole package with her.  I don't think she really does anything badly.  I mean, yeah, her ability to just really impose herself in every area of the court.  Even if she's on the defense or even if -- it makes you feel, I think, that you have to do more with the ball.   
So she makes you feel that pressure.  I think that's what she's able to do very well.   
 Q.  She said on court afterwards she thought you would be a future champion here.  
JOHANNA KONTA: That's nice (laughter).   
Well, I will do my best.  I will try.   
 Q.  There are so many stories coming out of this.  Given that you played Serena, do you think she can go on and do it or is the way clear for someone else to lift the trophy?  
JOHANNA KONTA: I think that will be decided in the next matches to come.  If anyone ever counts Serena out, I don't think they really know what they're talking about.   
I mean, wherever's she's playing, she's always there with more than just a shot.  She's a serious contender for any title, any competition that she plays.   
 Q.  As you sit there now, not a lot of time since the match, but what is the general feeling?  Is it frustration of the opportunity?  Are you proud of what you did?  Can you articulate it a little bit?  
JOHANNA KONTA: I definitely would have liked to have done a bit better.  But I'm also really grateful and feel very good that I had this opportunity.  I think there's a lot that I will be able to learn from it and take away from it, yeah, look to apply.   
Hopefully I'll get another chance to play her, but not just her, but in other matches and other players who are able to make you feel that similar kind of time pressure within the points, but also just the way that they're able to impose themselves.  I think I'll be able to use a lot of things that I learnt from today in other matches as well.   
 Q.  Do you have a bit of a cold?  
JOHANNA KONTA: No, I was crying, so I'm a bit blocked up.   
 Q.  Seriously?  
JOHANNA KONTA: Yeah.  I cry, too (smiling).  Whew!   
 Q.  Was there any difference in preparing to face Serena in terms of the nerves and the occasion as opposed to anyone else?  
JOHANNA KONTA: I think it was more I probably just wanted to do really well.  Whether I was going to win or lose, I just wanted to, yeah, compete well.  So I think I may have put a little too much expectation and pressure on myself, and not given enough credit to the situation.   
But also her in the way she's able to handle those situations, just because her experience and my experience are not exactly on par.   
 Q.  Was the crying the release of all the emotions that you have to contain to keep your focus during a tournament?  Was that why you cried afterwards?  
JOHANNA KONTA: I cried because I'm generally quite an emotional person.  I think I've never hid that away.  I've worked incredibly hard to direct that emotion into a positive way and into a constructive way on court.  But off court I'm still very emotional.   
 Q.  What is your plan now for the next couple days, weeks?  
JOHANNA KONTA: Well, I'll be looking to go home, looking to rest as much as I can in a few days, then heading to Fed Cup.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT