AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 17, 2017
Johanna Konta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J. KONTA/K. Flipkens
7-5, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How did it feel to get that one done in straights with sort of the rising heat out there?
JOHANNA KONTA: I'm very happy to have come through, I think more specifically to difficulties that my opponent presented today more so than the weather.  I mean, it was hot, but last week in Sydney, we experienced something a lot hotter.  So I think it was always cool in comparison.
Yeah, she made it difficult for me out there.  She's got this great ability at really frustrating her opponents with some of the balls she's able to hit.  She's very creative in that way, so I think I was really happy I was able to work myself into the match and through it, to come through.
Q. What was going on with that bee that was floating around?
JOHANNA KONTA: Oh, no, it wasn't a bee.  It was a moth.  But I just saw it go between my legs, and I didn't see it come out, so I was like, Oh, no, is it under my skirt?  That's basically what happened.
Q. When you got hit by the lob, has that ever happened to you before?
JOHANNA KONTA: No, no.  It fell on my foot. No, it's never happened before and hopefully won't happen again.
Hey, it's gotta happen sometime in your career, doesn't it?
Q. You were saying about the heat, but did you find the conditions generally, the court, did it play very similarly to Sydney?
JOHANNA KONTA: It felt a bit different, but I think that's also just to do with the general atmosphere.  And you'll get that even within Melbourne Park.  Certain courts play a little different.  That's just the way it is when you have lots of courts.
Yeah, but that's also another reason why I think I feel very happy to have worked my way through that match.  First rounds are always difficult for numerous reasons, besides it being, for the obvious, that it's a first round at a tournament.
It's also everyone else's emotions around the spectators, everyone is excited for things to get going.  There is always a number of challenges for everyone.
Q. Is playing the first round after actually winning a title, does that add greater stress?
JOHANNA KONTA: Not consciously.  Who knows, subconsciously?  I wasn't actively thinking about it.  I'm always aware how you do the week before is no reflection of how you're going to do the week after.
I really try to take each on its own merit, and I'm very happy with the level I was able to produce last week and the number of matches and how I was able to come through each one.
But this tournament is a new challenge, and it comes with completely different obstacles.  So I'm happy to have just given myself one more chance to play another one here.
Q. So you can put Sydney away in a nice little box and move on?
JOHANNA KONTA: You kind of need to, because that's already gone.  I think we are also spoiled in tennis in the way that the tour moves on so quickly, and you always have another opportunity the week after.  Not many sports can say that.
It's both a blessing and a curse (smiling).
Q. Slams obviously have one day on, one day off, slightly different than tour-level events.  Is that a different set of challenges, as well, especially coming off of Sydney where maybe you had your family there and there were easy ways to keep your mind off tennis when you were off-site, where sometimes here it can marinate a little bit more?
JOHANNA KONTA: For sure.  It's also something you also get used to.  I think that's why the first couple days of a slam, it was also about adjusting and settling into your routine that you have here.
Hopefully I will have many days to keep this routine going, but for now, I'm just happy to have come through today and will do the right things.  Train tomorrow.  Take care of my body.  Just, like you said, switch off a bit and then prepare for the next one.
Q. Do you watch much tennis on your off days here?  Would you do that normally?
JOHANNA KONTA: It's actually -- the Australian Open and the US Open on some of the, some of the funnest tournaments -- okay.  Are some of the funnest tournaments to watch on TV, because when you go back to the hotel room or an apartment, there is usually a couple of channels showing them.  I don't know.  Like in the evenings I always have Channel 7 on.
Q. How much do you know about Naomi Osaka?
JOHANNA KONTA: I played her once before.  I think it's only once, although someone's probably going to come up with a stat somewhere.
I remember her playing once in the US Open, 2015, I think, in the quallies.  Since then, she's improved a lot.  I have tried to, as well.  I know she plays a big game.  She has big shots.  I'm definitely prepared to go in for a battle.
Q. What is your mindset when you play a big hitter compared to -- you know, if you play a Flipkens, it's obviously a different game plan, but with your game style against somebody who will try and be more aggressive than you are, what's your mindset in those sorts of matches?
JOHANNA KONTA: Well, first and foremost I still look to do what I aim to do in all of my matches:  I look to dictate and take control of the points.
But I think it's also having good acceptance and tolerance to the fact that she will sometimes have control, and also just really try to accept those situations and do my best to really stay strong and keep myself in those points.
Q. Trying to persuade your family to come over?  Have you been successful with that?  Are they here yet?
JOHANNA KONTA: No, they're not here.  No, no, no.  You're talking about my sister?
Q. Yeah.
JOHANNA KONTA: No, they're not here yet.  I will speak to them what their plans are, but she's on mum duty, and her husband is on training duty.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT