AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 19, 2017
Johanna Konta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
J. KONTA/N. Osaka   
6-4, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  That must have been pleasing, again?  
JOHANNA KONTA: Yeah, very happy to have come through that.  I knew going into the match I had played her once previously, and we had two close sets.  She's obviously a great server and a big ball striker.   
I was definitely keen on making my stamp in the match, and I feel like I managed to do that as the match went on.   
 Q.  How big is the ball that she hits?  A lot of people are talking about her.  
JOHANNA KONTA: I think actually, interestingly, what she does well is she also takes pace off the ball quite well.  So she's more -- you don't quite know when she's going to be hitting it big and when she's looking to stay in the point and more work the point.   
So I think that was definitely the most interesting, playing her.   
 Q.  Did you adjust your serve?  Pretty impressive stats?  
JOHANNA KONTA: Oh yeah?  I haven't looked at the stats.  Surprise.   
I definitely did feel like I definitely got a few easy points off my serve, but I felt I was able to keep pressure on in my service games and not give her too many looks at taking advantage.   
 Q.  In the early set she wasn't really sure whether she was returning badly or you were serving really well?  
JOHANNA KONTA: It is a fine line sometimes, isn't it?  I think players will always be self-critical of them, and it can be difficult to judge whether the opponent was doing well or you weren't doing so well.   
I do think I did a good job in also mixing up my spots, so generally I think I did serve well.   
 Q.  Last time you guys played was quarterfinal of US Open, and both of you guys ranking, both of you were 100-something, and now you both play in center court of Australian Open.  Is it a surprise?  How do you think Naomi played differently this time?  
JOHANNA KONTA: Well, I think both of us have come a long way since the last time we played, as well.   
So I think it almost felt like a similar match, but obviously both our levels have been higher since then.  Again, the setting, I think, we were very fortunate.  I personally feel very lucky and very happy to have played on Rod Laver.  It's a beautiful court.   
It was another beautiful day.  Yeah, very happy to have extended my stay here in Melbourne.   
 Q.  Once you got the break in the first set, your confidence seemed to rise.  Is that the kind of position you're in, once you nose in front of them in a match, you feel as though you can just stay ahead?  
JOHANNA KONTA: Not necessarily.  I think there is still a lot of tennis to be played, even if you've broken in the first set.  There is still that set to play and then who knows?  Maybe another two.   
But I definitely felt I was looking to keep the pressure on her, I was looking to impose myself and to create those chances for myself.   
So when the break did come, I was quite pleased.  I wanted to run with that.   
 Q.  Naomi said the way you speak sounds really intelligent or, like, smart to her.  
JOHANNA KONTA: I need to chat more with Naomi (laughing).   
 Q.  She said you lose a lot of big words.  (Laughter.)  
 A. That's a very nice compliment.  Thank you (laughter). What's the question?  Sorry.   
 Q.  Do you agree with her?  
JOHANNA KONTA: I don't know.  I think -- well, I haven't really analyzed my own speech.  I'm sorry.   
 Q.  You obviously combine or embody two wonderful cultures, the British and the Australian.  Could you use some of your big words and talk about -- how do you think they are alike, and how do you think the two cultures are different?  
JOHANNA KONTA: Well, I don't quite know, actually.  I'm looking for my big words.   
Well, obviously I was born here.  I think I got to experience great weather when I was young and get great experience in this heat.  Just the conditions here.  I actually trained on these courts when I was younger.  Part of that national program.   
So, for me, I guess the culture that I can relate to here is more the tennis culture more than anything, just because of my early years playing.   
But I guess I spent my formative years in the UK, and that's home for me.  That's where I go home to.   
But I'm very lucky that I've got family in two places -- three places, actually.  There is even Hungarian in there.   
 Q.  Speaking of Hungary, there is a tradition in tennis.  Players going one culture to another, like Seles, Martina, and Lendl.  Do you think, in a way, going from one culture to another like Kei Nishikori, as another example.  Does that help you in some way, approaching our sport and the competitive side of our sport?  
JOHANNA KONTA: Well, I do believe that tennis also makes the world quite small, because we travel all around it, and we come in contact with so many different cultures, different countries, different people, that I think that it's inevitable we will be a little bit from a lot of places.   
I count myself very fortunate.  I speak two languages, fluently, try.  And know a third.  I really can call so many different places a little bit of home.  I think it's part of our sport.   
 Q.  What's the third language?  
JOHANNA KONTA: I try -- that's the key word -- in Spanish.   
 Q.  Have you picked up and just in the locker room, Naomi's, how to put it, unique sort of dry sense of humor?  I wonder how it all went down with other players in the locker room?  
JOHANNA KONTA: I honestly actually haven't really spoken so much to her.  Our paths haven't really -- you're talking about Naomi Osaka, right?  Just to clarify.   
 Q.  Yeah.  
JOHANNA KONTA: Yeah, we haven't really crossed paths.  Just the way our schedules have worked out and also schedules within the tournament.  I haven't really gotten the chance to speak to her yet.  So I will seek her out, thank her on the compliment of my big words and see about that humor.   
 Q.  Do you have any moments or flashbacks or memories when you went out on Laver first match since semifinal of last year?  
JOHANNA KONTA: Not quite, but actually while we were doing the five-minute warmup, and the presenter was going through how I did last year, and how I'm back here now.  That gave me goosebumps a little bit, just because it has kind of, yeah, come full circle with one season, I guess.   
Yeah, that made me -- yeah, made me feel a bit warm inside.   
But I love playing out on that court.  It really is, especially when the weather is so nice like that, it really kind of lights up.   
 Q.  Did you hire your private coach, or you're working with LTA?  
JOHANNA KONTA: No, my coach is working for me privately.   
 Q.  What is his name?  
JOHANNA KONTA: Will Fissette.   
 Q.  Do you think in the second set that her intensity dropped?  
JOHANNA KONTA: No, I don't believe so.  I think I gained some momentum, and I think I did a good job at keeping pressure on her.   
I mean, from my side, I don't believe she actually did much wrong.  I felt the few opportunities that I got, I was quite quick to take them, so I think I made it difficult for her.   
Obviously I'm sure she has things that she wants to work on and improve on.   
 Q.  Obviously you have had an incredible rise recently.  What do you think the one or two things you need to do to go all the way to claim a major victory, Grand Slam victory?  
JOHANNA KONTA: I think -- big questions.   
I believe that if I continue to keep my priorities straight, really take care of the work, take care of my body, then I will continuously be able to have the opportunity to improve, to get better, to experience more matches, to experience more situations.  And I think in turn, a lot of it is time.   
And then a lot of it is also, I don't know what it is about fate or being in the right place at the right time.  I think some things need to come together, and, yeah, I love what I do, so hopefully I'll be around for many more years with my body staying healthy.   
Hopefully in that time I will be able to give myself opportunities to have such an experience.   
 Q.  Fish and chips?  
JOHANNA KONTA: No, I have been eating grilled fish with rice, but it's like basically an Australian version of fish and chips.  It's, like, super healthy.   
 Q.  Looking forward to your next matches, how do you think you're going to grow?  You could be up against Serena Williams, I think, in the fourth round, for example, if you make it through the next one.  
JOHANNA KONTA: Well, there is still a lot of tennis to be played between now and the fourth round, as well.   
I think my next opponent will be -- it will be an incredibly tough one.  Every round so far has been -- I think my first round and also today, they were incredibly competent opponents.   
I really -- yeah, I think rarely do we get any easy rounds.  That's a given.   
But I'm looking forward to the challenge.  I'm looking forward to trying.  I'm looking forward to being out on court, competing, and ultimately I'm just trying to make my stay here in Melbourne as long as possible.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT