APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 13, 2017
Johanna Konta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J. KONTA/A. Radwanska
6-4, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How does it feel?  Second title?  You're racking up the top 10 wins.
JOHANNA KONTA: Yeah, it's really nice to win another title.  It is a very nice feeling.
I think I'm just overall happy with how I was able to progress throughout this tournament.  I felt each match that I was playing I was thinking a little more clearly and was -- I just, I guess, getting that much more match-tight, as the saying is.
But overall, very happy with the match I played today.  I really felt I definitely maintained a high level throughout and I made it very difficult for her to do much today.
Yeah.  The thing is, though, going into any match against Aga - I played her twice before - I knew it had to be nothing short of what it was today if I was to have a chance of coming through.
Q. Did you picture sitting there, having that trophy, before you?
JOHANNA KONTA: Neither here nor there.  I really tried very much to stay in the activity I was doing each minute, each hour of the day.
In the morning I enjoyed breakfast.  Then I enjoyed walking to get lunch.  Then I enjoyed sitting in the car listening to the music.
Really just very step by step.
Q. Aga said she thought you played really well today.  Does that say a lot about how well you've been playing?
JOHANNA KONTA: That's a huge compliment from her.  I think that just shows also how much class she does have in defeat, as well.  She acknowledges when her opponents play well, as well.  Not many players do that.  I do appreciate that.
But like I said, I knew going into the match that I really, I had to be nothing short of what I produced if I was going to have a chance, because the reason she's been at the top of the game for so long is because of her consistency, the way she's able to compete day in, day out, week in, week out.
That is truly -- yeah, I think she's probably the best in the world at that.
Q. Obviously when you have a title, it gives you confidence going into Melbourne.  What else do you take from Sydney that you're really pleased about?  Your serve?
JOHANNA KONTA: I'm really pleased with just the amount of matches I have been able to play.  Obviously how I have done here, I take it as a really positive thing, as a nice reward along the way for the hard work that myself and my team have put in every day.
But like (indiscernible) said, it's not a reflection of how next week will go, how the rest of the year will go.  It's back to everyday hard work, because that's what dictates how I do.
Q. (Question about last year's Melbourne tournament and now.)
JOHANNA KONTA: I definitely -- I have been in a very fortunate position to being in lots of situations between last year, Melbourne, and now.  I really, in a relatively short space of time, I have experienced a lot, so therefore, I'd like to think that I've become a bit wiser, a bit more resilient, and a bit more experienced with situations.
Still a long, long way to go, and I think every day, for the rest of my career, I will be accumulating more experiences.  But I definitely am enjoying my journey, enjoying learning, enjoying getting better every day.  I try to be a sponge as much as I can.
Q. Have you looked at the draw for the Australian Open?
JOHANNA KONTA: No, I haven't.  No, I knew it came out.  I didn't look.  I know I play Tuesday.  That's what I know.  But I didn't look at my opponent.  It felt a bit funny to look at the next tournament while I was still very much involved here.
Q. Your trophy, will you leave that with your sister or take it home in your bag?
JOHANNA KONTA: Oh, no, this will get shipped home.
Q. You said at the start of the tournament, when you got through your first-round match, your sister said, Who's playing in the tournament, the top players, and you're like, Oh, I'm one of them.  Now that you have straight-setted everyone and had such a resounding week, is it some sense you're more entrenched there, you belong more?  Or did you already feel that?
JOHANNA KONTA: Well, because I don't actively associate myself with a ranking or with a position or with results, I associate myself with what I do every day, the things I have control over, and that's the work I do.
I think it's more, when I'm caught in situations where, when I was talking to my sister, and I was naming the people who are here of the top 10, and then I got to the last one, the No. 6, Oh, that's me, it's more of a nice little reminder -- and again, it's more just a reward for hard work, more than anything.  But it's not -- yeah, I don't wake up in the morning, look in the mirror, and say, Hey, No. 9.  (Laughter.)
Q. But do you feel like you're one of the best players in the world?  Because your results would indicate you definitely are, playing some of the best tennis of anyone in the world.
JOHANNA KONTA: I feel I'm -- well, the only person I can really compare myself to is really myself, and that's the only person I can compete against, and that's the only person I can hold myself accountable to.
And I do feel with myself that I am playing a good level.  And the way it's coming through, so far, is it's been consistent over the last two weeks.
But like I said, it's no reflection of how the Australian Open will go, it's no reflection how the year will go, in general.
There are so many things that are a factor, and most importantly, I will continue to look at my health, happiness.  And again, that will give me the best shot at trying to be consistent, like Aga.  (Smiling.)  That's pretty hard.
Q. How will you reward yourself for this?
JOHANNA KONTA: Well, because it's quite late, I'm not too sure.  I had a ham-and-cheese toasty, which was amazing.
And I think my family, though, will accompany me possibly to the hotel or somewhere just to hang out.  They'll have a drink.  I'll have a Coke.  Whew.
Q. Not champagne?
JOHANNA KONTA: I don't like champagne.  No, I don't actually like much alcohol.  No.  Yes.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT