APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 12, 2017
Johanna Konta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J. KONTA/E. Bouchard
6-2, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You talked earlier this week about Sydney being a meaningful tournament for you.  How much more meaning does it have now you've reached the final?
JOHANNA KONTA: I'm really happy I'm here one more day.  I'm happy I get to spend a little more time with my nephew, with my sister.  I think that's what I'm most happy about.  But obviously the chance to play in a final, it's always special and always really good fun and  I guess what we aim for within the sport.
But, yeah.  Just enjoying being here.
Q. You seemed to recover really well from yesterday.  It was very hot conditions.  You seemed quite sharp out there.
JOHANNA KONTA: Well, it was definitely a lot cooler today, which was nice, and I was lucky enough.  I wasn't out there for three hours and 20 minutes, unlike two other girls.
My match was a bit shorter than that and a bit later, as well.  But I think the conditions are the same for everyone, so everyone's gotta manage it the best they can.
Q. Are you happy how what that showed about your own strength and conditioning?
JOHANNA KONTA: Definitely.  And I felt I did the right things after, as well, in terms of hydration and recovery.  That's all any of us can really do is try and take care of the basics and the little things, as well.
Q. You're putting together quite a great record in Australia the last couple of years, aren't you?
JOHANNA KONTA: Well, I guess this year has been kind to me here in Sydney, and then obviously I had a very special time in Melbourne last year.
But previously to that, it wasn't the case.  I think it's part of the game.  Results come and go, so I'm enjoying playing good tennis, and, yeah, just really trying to put it on my time here.  (Smiling.)
Q. Did that semifinals kick-start everything for you last year?  Was that where it kind of...
JOHANNA KONTA: I don't believe in clicks and in light-bulb moments.  It was a lot of hard work over many, many years, and that hard work is continuous.  It's still ongoing, and there will be ebbs and flows and there will be ups and downs.
Nothing is a given, but I'm enjoying working hard and trying to enjoy getting better.
Q. A lot of Australian questions, but we have to ask.  When you left here, did you ever envisage you'd be coming back?  Any regrets about not representing Australia?
JOHANNA KONTA: I left here when I was still quite young, so I was 13 years old, still, and -- 13?  How old was I?  Yes, 13.  I was 13, yeah.
So I have pretty much spent half my life now in the UK, and that is home for me.  So I have no regrets in that sense.  I love coming back here because of my sister, my nephew now.  I have family here.
I think it's always nice to go back to a place where you have memories from before.  I think that's always -- that's always a special thing, even if you only lived in a place for a couple of years.
But so far I think -- well, I have played obviously two Australian girls in the first two rounds, so obviously they have the majority of the support.  And Genie has got a massive following.  So I don't think I have been winning in the support side.
But the point is my sister was making a lot of noise.  She asked me, Did you hear me?  Because I was shouting really loud.  Did you hear me?  I was, like, Yes.  (Laughter.)
Q. Does it give you a level of confidence that you can kind of take onto the court, familiar surroundings, some family, those things, those indefinable things that just make you a bit happier and a bit more relaxed?
JOHANNA KONTA: Exactly.  And I think being on the road can be also very monotonous at times, and it can be, yeah, just a little bit like Groundhog Day.  To break it up with little things, such as having family around, it does give it a little something different and a little something extra.  So I am enjoying that.
But when I was younger, I did play on these courts, so in that sense, it is a little bit funny.  I had a couple of the girls who I trained with when I was little who -- I don't think some of them play anymore.  They messaged me, Oh, it's the old stomping ground, which is kind of interesting.
So, yes, I was on these courts when I was about 10 or 11.
Q. Would it be your biggest win if you could take the title tomorrow?
JOHANNA KONTA: I'm really actually looking forward to having another match against Aga.  I have had two really tough matches, most recently in the Beijing final, and she's been at the top of the game for so many years.  Honestly, I can't remember when she wasn't in the top 10 or 5.  And that says so much about her as a competitor more than anything else.
Everyone knows she's the Ninja.  I'm just looking forward to the challenge, and I'm looking forward to trying again.  Hopefully, I will be able to play some good tennis.
Q. Do you have teams here that you support, sporting teams?
JOHANNA KONTA: No.  No, I'm probably the most unsporty sportswoman you'll ever meet.
Q. I presume you support Greater Western Sydney?
JOHANNA KONTA: Yes, the Giants.  Yes, yes.  I think I kind of have to.
No, but actually, interestingly, dad is now following AFL games in the UK, and they are on at really odd times, obviously, because of the time change.  So, yeah, that's been kind of interesting watching him watching AFL in Great Britain, and I have no idea what AFL is.  So that's interesting.  Obviously they had a massive season last year, so hopefully the boys will look to do well again.
Q. Does your sister speak with a British accent, as well?
JOHANNA KONTA: No, she speaks with an Australian one.  So that's a bit odd, but, hey.
Q. People said after Melbourne last year, Oh, you're the one that got away.  How does that sit with you?
JOHANNA KONTA: It's the way the cookie crumbles?    (Smiling.)
Honestly, I think it's always important to always appreciate the good things you guys do have, and you have some good players.  It was just the way things were meant to be, and, you know, this will always be the country of my birth.  That won't change.  I'm always really actually proud to say that, as well.  I enjoy coming back here.
But my home is Great Britain and my heart lies there, and I feel very proud when I'm representing Great Britain.
Q. Is Eva older than you by...
JOHANNA KONTA: Three years.
Q. Did she leave and come back?
JOHANNA KONTA: She is actually a half-sister.  She grew up here and stayed here with her mum.  Yeah, she's here.
Q. How many friends and family exactly do you have supporting you this week?
JOHANNA KONTA: How many exactly, like count how many?
Q. Four or five?
JOHANNA KONTA: Well, does my sister's and brother-in-law's friends count?  I don't know them, but they are obviously supporting me because of them.
Q. There's a lot?
JOHANNA KONTA: There's a few, and obviously we still have some -- my parents and I still have family friends and they have been coming out.  I don't know.  Ten.
Q. Do they come out of the woodwork with each match you win?
JOHANNA KONTA: No, because the thing is we have -- we left coming up to, yeah, 12, 13 years ago, so that's a long time.
Q. (Question about leaving Australia.)
JOHANNA KONTA: Yeah, I'm like a broken record.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT