APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 11, 2017
Johanna Konta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
J. KONTA/D. Kasatkina   
6-3, 7-5   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How were the conditions today?  
JOHANNA KONTA: It was hot, and then it was windy.  So there was hot and windy.   
 Q.  How did you manage that?  
JOHANNA KONTA: Well, I just tried to really take care of the things that I can control, and that's how much I drank, so my hydration in general, and obviously gels and ice towels.  Then really just tried to get comfortable being comfortable.   
 Q.  So from 4-2 down in the second you also played really well to wrap it up.  What were your thoughts on your game and what were you able to do to change it up?  
JOHANNA KONTA: I just tried to stay very much within myself.  I really tried to do my best not expending too much unnecessary energy.   
The conditions were tough, and they were tough on both of us.  I don't think both of us didn't play at a particularly high level today.  I think we just did the best with what we had.   
I felt I just was able to possibly just manage things a little bit better than her today.  I think that was pretty much, I think, the difference.   
 Q.  Bouchard next.  Have you had a chance to see much of her play?  
JOHANNA KONTA: No, I haven't actually watched any of her matches.  Just the way the schedule has worked out.  But I have played her once before.   
I played her last year in Wimbledon, a really, really tough battle.  I know going into it that it's going to be a tough match.  She still is one of the best players, and, yeah, it's a given that it's going to be a tough one.   
 Q.  She won that match.  What do you take from that?  I know it's six months on and different surfaces.  Do you take lessons from that match, or do you have a different approach to this one, now that you have seen her play and felt the tactics on her ball?  
JOHANNA KONTA: I guess I'm going into the match knowing the style of tennis she plays more than -- because I have felt it more than just seen it previously.   
But again, it's a different season.  It's a different surface, as well.  I'm sure there will be slight changes in terms of feeling.   
But she's always been a very dangerous player.  I know going into it, that I'm going to have to really take care of things on my end and look to pushing her to her limits, as well.   
 Q.  What are your thoughts on Kasatkina?  She had the great win against Kerber and a rising star, quite talented.  What do you think about her game?  
JOHANNA KONTA: I think she actually has a real talent for -- well, for one thing, I think she moves really well.  She's able to get a lot of balls back.  I think the way she feels the game is quite talented.   
Yeah, yesterday she beat the No. 1 player in the world, so I think it's always difficult to come back the next day after a match, especially such a tremendous one like that.  I think she did an incredible job.   
Yeah, I'm sure she'll keep doing well.   
 Q.  Being in the semis in Sydney, a tournament you said means a little bit more to you than the average tournament, how special is that?  
JOHANNA KONTA: Well, I'm just really happy I get to stay here a little bit longer.  I think it's more just about prolonging my stay here, more than anything, because I get to spend a bit more time with my sister.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT