NL DIVISION SERIES: ASTROS v BRAVES
October 6, 1999
Larry Dierker
Jose Lima
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Jose, what was Bruce doing with you before the game started?
 
 JOSE LIMA: They have been checking the side of my pants every year, all year-round
about if I got pine tar. I keep saying, if I cheat, if I put pine tar on my pants, nobody
is going to beat me, I will be nasty, nasty that I am. You know what I mean? They just
wake me up. They keep checking my pants, the more they are checking my pants, the better I
am going to pitch because I know in their head they think I am cheating. I don't have to
cheat to win ball games. I have been doing it all year-round. I don't win 21 games because
of luck. I went out there performed and challenged everybody. That is what I did today.
Why cheat? 
 
Q. Jose, was that because it came from the Braves or were the umpires just checking
because they check?
 
 JOSE LIMA: It was Bobby Cox. He said: Go check his pants in the first inning. They did
it in Kansas City; Arizona; home a few times. It didn't bother me. That is part of the
game. They want to check my pants, it is fine with me. I know I don't have nothing there
because I am not going to be stupid enough to go up there and have pine tar on my pants
then they check me and suspend me. This is not time to be suspended. We are in the
Playoffs. This is probably the biggest time in my life; why get suspended at this point. 
 
Q. Larry, then Jose; your impressions on Kevin Millwood?
 
 LARRY DIERKER: Well, a stronger game has not been pitched against us all year long. He
says he doesn't win 20 games by accident either. The other guy doesn't win 18 and have an
E.R.A. Of two and a half he threw hard. He spotted his fast ball well, he threw hard. He
has a curve ball to finish you off. And we really only hit two balls hard the whole game.
At home he pitched two-hit games against us; today one hit. He got 18 wins this year. To
me, between himself and Jones, they can go for the Cy Young. He is an outstanding pitcher.
He is young, but he is pitching real well. He changes speed real well. You see what
happen, I give a lot of credit to him. I tip my hat. He beat us. 
 
Q. Larry, did you think you had something going when Caminiti hit the home run?
 
 LARRY DIERKER: Well, at that moment. We never did anything after that. To have
something going, you have to start seeing the two, three guys start getting good swings,
start hitting the ball sharply, and it just never happened. All year long we have played a
lot like this. It's been an improbable journey for us. We kicked the ball around quite a
bit. They got a lot of bleeder-type hits; a little bump-ball that hit Caminiti's glove
would have been a single. If it hadn't hit his glove and if he had caught it would have
been a double play. So I mean, when you are going to have a game where you don't have the
luck, and you don't make all the plays, I would prefer to have that game when a guy is
pitching a one-hitter against me because you are probably not going to win anyway.
Yesterday we played a real sharp game and I hope that on Friday we will play another sharp
game. 
 
Q. Two-part question for both Jose and Larry. Jordan's hand injury, has that changed
the way you pitched to him and do you think it is healthy now?
 
 LARRY DIERKER: I will start out. Basically we regard Brian Jordan as a fine all-around
hitter. When a guy is a good hitter like that you can't just pitch him one way. If he had
a real sore hand and he couldn't get around on the inside pitch then we just keep pounding
him inside. But he has been swinging well enough in this series that I think we have to
pitch him like any other good hitter like Chipper Jones or anyone else. We have to use
fast balls on both sides of the plate and we have to change speeds and we have to throw
some breaking balls. In this series he has gotten a few hits but outside of that ball he
hit out to the centerfield fence he hasn't hit the ball really hard. 
 JOSE LIMA: Yeah, we didn't change anything. We know he is a good hitter. He didn't hit
300 by accident. We tried to pitch around -- pitch inside like Larry said, tried to make
some adjustments, keep the ball down with the slide and fast ball in. In that situation we
try to pitch inside, it was good, but he is a great ball hitter; cannot complain. We
cannot be down on ourselves. We have got to go home on Friday and try to do the best in
front of our fans. This is not over. We have to go out and play hard and we have to do the
little things to win and I know if we do, we are going to be the champions this year. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT