NL DIVISION SERIES: ASTROS v BRAVES
October 5, 1999
Jose Lima
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. After what happened last year in the playoffs, what does it mean to be in the front
lines and being counted on this year?
 
 JOSE LIMA: It's fun. I think last year, we went to San Diego and played over there. I
didn't have the chance to pitch. I was disappointed. My first year, to win 16 games, my
first year starting pitching. I tried to pitch a little -- at least one inning. I think
it's going to be different this year. Finally, I'm going to start tomorrow and I can prove
myself.  
 
Q. Can you describe the mood on the bus and the plane yesterday, not knowing where you
were going?
 
 JOSE LIMA: We stick around in the clubhouse yesterday, playing cards, talking about
what's going to happen between the Mets and Cincinnati. Around the 6th inning, we saw the
score, 5-0. And by 8:30, we left for the airport, and by the time we got there it was like
9 o'clock already, and we know it was like the 9th inning. And to the other guys I say,
"Wow, I think we're going to Atlanta." I think they want to play here and I
think, you know, I hope we do a better job than last year.  
 
Q. Craig Biggio said afternoon the same on Sunday that nobody expects the Astros to go
much further in the playoffs except the players. What is that like in the clubhouse, what
kind of mind set does the team have?
 
 JOSE LIMA: I think it's different this year. With all the injuries we have, we have to
be pleased at this point. We win the Central Division Championship. Our pitching staff was
pretty good. I think it's going to be a different story this year. I hope the bat wakes
up. And if we can do the job pitching between myself, Hampton, Reynolds and the rest of
the guys I think we're going to do the job this year.  
 
Q. What do you think is the biggest difference between last year's team and this year's
team?
 
 JOSE LIMA: We know that we don't have a lot of guys down. Like Moises and those guys we
have to pull ourselves together and do the little things to win ball games, and that's
what we're doing. Last couple games, we played real well. We scored a lot of runs, our
pitching staff came through, and I think it's a time now that we can go up there and beat
the Braves.  
 
Q. How do you think pitching on three days' rest for the second straight time might
affect you?
 
 JOSE LIMA: I don't know. All my life I've been saying I've got a rubber arm. My arm
never hurt. This year, I pitched three times on three days' rest, and I win three of my
outing. It might work. You never know. I'll let you know tomorrow when I throw the first
pitch during the game. It feels pretty good right now.  
 
Q. The Braves had pretty good success against you this year. What did they do well
against you and what do you want to do different?
 
 JOSE LIMA: I want to beat them. They beat me in the regular season. This is playoffs
now. I think this is different right here, right now. I've just got to go up there and not
be emotional, just be myself. Don't change anything I did during the year around. I know
if I do that, I'm going to have a great game.  
 
Q. What do you think of their lineup, and how are they a different team without
Galarraga and Javy Lopez and how do you pitch to this team now?
 
 JOSE LIMA: They are still tough. Even though they don't have Galarraga and Javy Lopez,
they win 100 games. You just have to be careful. For one, they are a great team. Even when
you get to -- Andruw Jones, he's young, he's a great ballplayer. You still have to be
careful. Go up there, just challenge everybody and let them hit the ball somewhere.  
 
Q. You talked about not changing things. Much has been made about your antics on the
mound. Will wee see the same thing from you tomorrow?
 
 JOSE LIMA: I'll be dancing tomorrow, too. If you don't like it, don't play against me
tomorrow. I'll tell you right now, I've been having this all year: "Lima showing off
to everybody." They never said that to Randy Johnson, because he's Randy Johnson. Why
Jose Lima? He's having fun. I enjoy my career. Finally, I'm on a ballclub where they
believe in me. You don't like what I do, take me deep. I'm going to dance. Believe it.  
 
Q. Because the way you enjoy being so demonstrative on the mound, do you enjoy having
the biggest stage, being here in a playoff game?
 
 JOSE LIMA: When I see 50,000 in the stadium, I say, "Wow." It's going to be
awesome. The more they cheer, the more they make noise, the better I feel? I know I have
to stay in myself and go up there and try to do my best. I know, you know, they have to
watch a playoff game. I enjoy it.  
 
Q. How crazy was that experience last night, sitting in your clubhouse knowing you've
got a playoff but not knowing East Coast or West Coast?
 
 JOSE LIMA: Greg Maddux, Randy Johnson; we're going to go to Atlanta; we're going to go
to Arizona. We're going to Atlanta; we're going to Arizona. Whoever comes up, we're happy
to be here now this year. We've got another chance to go all the way to the World Series.
It's fun now. Whoever comes out, let's do it, and be sure we've got to do it together.  
 
Q. After not starting last year and winning 16 times ,and winning 20 this year and
starting and knowing you're going to be in the middle of this situation, how does that
feel?
 
 JOSE LIMA: To me it means a lot because finally, you know, I'm pitching on the team --
winning the division this year, I win 20 games, but I still -- I have to go up there and
try to win the ball game, and help this ballclub go all the way. This means a lot to me.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT