CAPITAL ONE ORANGE BOWL: ALABAMA VS OKLAHOMA
December 26, 2018
Ben Powers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How in awe are you sometimes of that athletic ability?  
BEN POWERS: He's probably one of the fastest persons, players I've seen in person.  He's so quick and twitchy, it's unbelievable.   
 Q.  They said he's a little under the weather.  I can't imagine anything would keep him off the field for this game.  Are you at all worried about that?  
BEN POWERS: No, I'm not worried one bit.   
 Q.  With that speed, are there moments where he can kind of say, look, enough messing around, I'm scoring right now?  
BEN POWERS: There's plays where he just takes off, and I'm 50 yards back just thinking, no one is catching up to him.   
 Q.  The run against West Virginia, every single player on the defense took the wrong angle.  Is that because nobody can process how fast he really is?  
BEN POWERS: I think so.  I think so.  He does that quite a bit.   
 Q.  With you guys, you're not looking at him, he's behind you.  How much do you have to be aware that he might be keeping a play alive back there, I've got to make sure that I'm not blocking my guy right into him?  
BEN POWERS: Yeah, you know, it's very important to block until you hear the whistle, but it's more important when you've got a quarterback like Kyler back there that can keep plays alive and keep moving around.   
 Q.  How important has Kennedy been to you guys as the backs have been banged up?  
BEN POWERS: Man, him being able to step up and play the way he's been playing is huge.  That's one of the big factors why we're at where we're at today.   
 Q.  What was it like when you got the Joe Moore award?  
BEN POWERS: It was pretty special.  It was.   
 Q.  Best trophy you've ever seen?  
BEN POWERS: It's huge.   
 Q.  Is it like 1,500 pounds or something?  
BEN POWERS: Yeah.   
 Q.  It's heavier than your actual offensive line?  
BEN POWERS: Yeah, yeah, probably.   
 Q.  You talk about your offense being a finesse offense, smooth offense.  How does that translate to the offensive line?  How does that sit with you?  
BEN POWERS: I think it all starts with us.  We start with the run game and then we move into the passing game, and that makes it to where we're able to do what we do.   
 Q.  Have you guys been called for an illegal man downfield this year to your knowledge?  
BEN POWERS: I don't think so.   
 Q.  I was just thinking like (indiscernible).  
BEN POWERS: No, that's a tough call because we do have a lot of plays where we could get called for that.   
 Q.  Kind of on the borderline --  
BEN POWERS: Yep.   
 Q.  How confident are you when you're running a play like an RPO or anything where you could potentially find yourself in no man's land do you have to think about where you are?  
BEN POWERS: You know, with those RPOs we block it as if it's getting handed off no matter what, so if we do end up getting one of those calls, we shake it off.   
 Q.  What are your impressions of the Alabama defensive front?  
BEN POWERS: They're good.  Looking forward to playing them.   
 Q.  Guys like Quinnen Williams, what do you see with him?  
BEN POWERS: He's a really good player.   
 Q.  You guys were able to establish the run against Georgia last year, another tough SEC front.  Are there any lessons you can take from that game last year to the plan for Saturday?  
BEN POWERS: There's a lot.  I'm able to go back and watch film and see what I did and what worked and this and that.  You know, playing against them last year definitely helped.   
 Q.  Is there a difference between the offenses, the styles of a Big 12 offense versus a --  
BEN POWERS: You know, a lot of people like to compare the different conferences, and I don't think there's that much of a difference between them.  I've played against Auburn, and I've played against Georgia, and I really don't think there's that much of a difference.   
 Q.  Besides the score, when you pick up a box score after a game on Saturday, where does your eye go in terms of telling you we've had a good day?  
BEN POWERS: How physical we are as an offensive line.   
 Q.  How about a stat, like if you look at the box score, total yards or yards per carry?  
BEN POWERS: Rushing yards.   
 Q.  So it's not -- if it's over 200, you're saying like that's -- that's just a generic number, but that's what you look at?  
BEN POWERS: Mm-hmm.   
 Q.  You guys and Alabama, you're No. 1 in yards per play and they're No. 2, but do you think college football is more driven by offense in this day and age?  
BEN POWERS: I'd say so, I really do.  It's the way -- you look at football games and their box scores on the weekends, 10 years ago there wasn't half that, so it's crazy how it's changed.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT