U.S. MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
October 12, 2017
Mark Harrell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MARK HARRELL: (Recording in progress. )   ...fairway on 9.  And then he missed the green as well, so I'm laying two and he's laying three on 9.  I chipped to about fifteen feet and missed my putt, and he chipped it about five and missed his.  Somehow won that hole and got it going in the right direction.
Birdied 11.  Hit it in there to about two feet; got the match all square.
Then had a chance on 14 to make par and win the match and lipped it out -- I mean to go 1-up.
Then on 15 made about a 35-footer for birdie to go 1-up in the match.
Then got up and down on 16 for par and he birdied 17 and there we were on the last and made birdie.
Q. Did you think the putt of his on 18 was going in?
MARK HARRELL: I did.  You know, he made a good par putt on 16, and I could tell it gave him a little confidence.  He hadn't been putting that good all day.  Then he made the one on 17 for birdie, so I knew the one on 18 had a chance.
Looked look he hit a great putt.
Q. Talk about your shot on 18.  I mean, for a good player it's not that difficult of a chip, but it...
MARK HARRELL: It was a very, very tough chip.  It was a very thin lie.  I asked my caddie, I was like, Should I try to bump something short or should I fly it on the green.  We elected to go high with it, which worked out, but I hit it perfect.  It flew right on the green and just kind of checked and stopped there a couple feet and he gave it to me, so...
Q. Talk about what happened on the extra hole.  I guess he had a second shot left.
MARK HARRELL: He did.  I hit before him and I hit it to about two, two and a half feet; 8-iron from 159.  It was almost a gimme, but he didn't give it to me.  He missed the green left and then chipped and didn't get up and down.
Q. Did he eventually concede it?
MARK HARRELL: He did concede it, yes.
Q. In all your shots this week, the extra hole, quarterfinals, 8-iron...
MARK HARRELL: It's awesome.  That's what we play for.  That's what makes this game so much fun.  I'm lucky to -- played well.  I didn't have my best today, but I'm still alive, still going.
Q. In the last two matches you shoot 63 and went 1-up, and today you got to go to 19 holes.
MARK HARRELL: Yeah, and I believe the first match I won with 19 holes as well.  Every match I've played has gone to at least 18, so it's been a full day every day.
Q. What's that like to kind of always have to grind out matches?
MARK HARRELL: You just stay in the moment.  You're just trying to hit one shot at a time.  You know you got to make birdies to beat guys, because all these players that are still left, even the ones that are here, are good.  You know that, so you got to stay aggressive and just keep trying to hit good golf shots.
Q. He's an SEC graduate, too.  You guys talk a little SEC?
MARK HARRELL: Yeah, we were talking about that early on.  As the match goes on you don't talk as much.
Yeah, we were talking.  He went to Mississippi State.  Yeah.  Good player.
Q. Obviously semifinal match.  You either got Anderson or Nichols.  Nichols is currently 1-up.  I don't know if you know anything about either of these guys.
MARK HARRELL: I don't.  It's just going to be the same thing:  one shot at a time.  Only shot I can control right now is the one on the first tee.  That's it.  I'll worry about the next one after I hit that one, you know.
Q. Getting to the semifinals get you a two-year exemption, so one more year added on.  So playing in Charlotte and then going to go to Colorado.
MARK HARRELL: Yeah, nice.
Q. Of course there is stuff at the end of the rainbow, too.
MARK HARRELL: Well I'm going to just keep trying to play good golf and see what happens.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT