BOSTON COLLEGE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
August 3, 2017
Zach Allen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You got some high compliments from Coach Addazio and also Coach Reid was talking about you and talking about how you're one of those guys that's probably going to benefit on the fact that Harold gets a lot of attention.  Give us your thoughts on sort of where things stand at this stage of the game.
ZACH ALLEN: Yeah, Harold has been great throughout my entire career, both on the field and off the field.  Obviously on the field I learn so much just seeing his example and what he did last year, but then off the field, too, because he has that professional mindset, just how to handle himself, whether it be nutrition, weightlifting, speed training.  He really has helped me get to the place I'm at today.
Q. Do you consider yourself pretty fortunate to be surrounded by the coaches that you are?
ZACH ALLEN: Oh, definitely.  I mean, I remember just reading their résumés, and you're like, wow, especially Coach Pasqualoni, Coach Reid, Coach Addazio and Coach Leonard.  They've been awesome with us and really treating us and helping us get better every day.
Q. What's that Coach P part?  I even saw today, and I'm sure it's pretty regular, that practice is over but you guys go work with him a little extra.  Is that par for the course?
ZACH ALLEN: Yeah, he just expects us to be the best that we can, and he's going to do whatever it takes to get us there.  I mean, every single day we know what we're going to get from him, and we try to match that and just bring our best every single day.  Luckily having him for a year, we've definitely had a lot of growth, and hopefully we just continue to grow.
Q. What was it like the day you heard that Harold was coming back?  How did you react?
ZACH ALLEN: I mean, I loved it.  Definitely it's just another year to just kind of watch him and follow him and learn from him, which has been huge.  I know a lot of people are like, oh, he's coming back, and there was nothing like that.  I was ecstatic.  I remember I saw it on Twitter, and he texted us about it, and I ran downstairs just telling them, he's back, we're so lucky.  Especially just for the team, just we're trying to do special things this year especially, and I think having him is huge, and it's going to be great for us.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT