BOSTON COLLEGE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
April 22, 2017
Zach Allen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What were you able to see?
ZACH ALLEN: Yeah, I mean, just able to kind of like situation, kind of some short passes so you know that they're going to get the ball out quick, and then you can also kind of read the sets and read the quarterback's eyes.  I was able to kind of mirror his throwing arm and just kind of get in the way, make him throw through a forest.
Q. Talk about stopping the run.
ZACH ALLEN: Yeah, I mean, definitely.  You've got to stop the run if you want to be able to do anything, get them into good 3rd down situations so you can rush the passer.  That's what we work on every day first thing is stopping the run.  We've still got some work.  It's early.  We've still got a few months before camp, but we'll definitely -- that's a major emphasis for us, and we've got some guys coming along that are doing it like on the interior and on the outside.
Q. Talk about the transition from high school to college.
ZACH ALLEN: Yeah, I mean, Connecticut football is a little bit different than ACC football, and this is the best conference.  That's why I chose Boston College.  You get to play against the best every day, and you also get to come to a great institution that really values both academics and athletics.  There's a big difference with size and speed, but we've had great leaders, I went from Mehdi and Wojcik to last year with Kev and Truman and now you've got Harold and Noah and Cohee, and they've really kind of kept us on the straight -- just the experience playing freshman and this year, you get used to it, and then also we've got some great offensive threats, so you get used to the speed and the size.  It was a little bit difficult in the beginning, but kind of last spring, kind of started to click for me and some of the other guys like Ray and Wyatt, so it definitely worked out well for us.
Q. How confident are you guys in the D-line for this next year?
ZACH ALLEN: I mean, we're always confident in ourselves.  We know next guy up.  We trust him to do his job, and we hold everybody to a high standard, so if somebody is not doing it, we definitely kind of bring him along and force him to get there because we depend on everybody.  We've had the most depth we've had so far.  We've got like 15 guys, I think, in the room right now, and we've got another three coming in.  It's been great.  We're pushing each other every day and kind of got to bring everyone along.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT