AMERICAN CENTURY CHAMPIONSHIP
July 13, 2007
Tommy Maddox
Sterling Sharpe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Sterling, you say it's the first time you've been in this room.  What do you think and what are you feeling?   
 STERLING SHARPE:  Funny I guess.  It's good.  It's finally good to say you're coming in here playing well and actually play well.  So it's good.  You're definitely doing something right if you're in this room.   
 So hopefully for two more days I can continue to play like I'm playing and be in this room in the end or out on the 18th green with the flag in my hand.   
  
  Q.  Tommy, how do you feel you played today?   
 TOMMY MADDOX:  You know, I hit some good shots when I needed to.  I had five birdies, five bogeys, so the five bogeys were bad but I made a couple of good bogey saving putts.  And in this system, you know, the double kills you.  So I stayed away from that, made five birdies.   
 So, felt pretty good.  The great thing is I feel pretty good because I didn't really play that great, but I scored okay.  So that's the main thing is if you cannot play your best and still score, it's pretty good.   
  
  Q.  Friday the 13th; have you traditionally been superstition in your games?   
 STERLING SHARPE:  I woke up this morning and had no power in the casino.  I wonder how many times that has happen.  What I was supposed to wear today, I didn't wear, because it wasn't ironed.   
 TOMMY MADDOX:  So I would say it's good for you.   
 STERLING SHARPE:  Friday the 13th is working out good for me.   
 TOMMY MADDOX:  I worried about it for a second because I got stuck on 13 points and I was thinking maybe this is bad.  But I'll take it right now.   
  
  Q.  Didn't you wear No. 13?   
 TOMMY MADDOX:  No, I wore 8.  Only I think Marino can get away with wearing 13.   
  
  Q.  Obviously some of the big names that are up here are up there all the time, I assume you'll be keeping an eye on those guys for the rest of the week?   
 STERLING SHARPE:  No, because on Sunday they will be there.  You don't have to look for them.  It's like death and taxes:  Rick is going to be there; Jack is going to be there; Dan's going to be there.  So they will be there on Sunday.  You know, especially with us guys who aren't used to being in that position, they are probably expecting us not to play as well.  I mean, I would.   
 So they will be there.  You don't have to look for hem them.   
 TOMMY MADDOX:  I think in this system, I don't know about you, but sometimes you get to adding up points and figure it out instead of just playing.   
 I know when I got on 16 green, I looked at the board and I had an eagle putt or an eagle little chip, and you start thinking about points and you start thinking about how you can leapfrog this guy.  I mean, it's really hard not to do that.  It's one thing to look at the leaderboard and kind of see where you're at.  But in the Stableford system, it's hard not trying to add up points.  But the main thing is you have to play well, and if you do, the points will be there.   
 Like Sterling said, no matter how they played today, they will go out tomorrow and find a way to get in the mix.  They will be there on Sunday.   
 STERLING SHARPE:  Like you and I will be doing together on Sunday.   
 TOMMY MADDOX:  Hopefully we'll play together.   
 STERLING SHARPE:  Yeah, maybe we'll be in the final group.   
 TOMMY MADDOX:  It will be fun.   
  
  Q.  How will you relax today or is there anything you need to work on?   
 STERLING SHARPE:  I hit driver on every hole, so a lot of the par 4s I had 40, 50, 60 yards in.  So I've already hit probably 50 of those shots, because I think I made birdie, I had probably seven of those today including, you know, a couple of the par 5s.  And I made two of the seven, and I say I made two of the seven, I hit it where I could go ahead and knock it in and not have to mark it.  That's what I have to work on.   
 If my driver goes -- it's like everybody's putter, but if my driver goes, I have a great chance because of what I'm going to be playing from.   
 TOMMY MADDOX:  Great thing about Sterling is he can play this course with I think four clubs, the way he hits the driver.   
 STERLING SHARPE:  Driver, 7-iron, 54-degree wedge and putter is what I pretty much hit.   
 TOMMY MADDOX:  I was going to say driver 8-iron, but I'm glad you said driver 7-iron!  Made me feel better.  (Laughing).   
 Yeah, I think this course, and I keep saying it, but this system, if you drive the ball well, you've got a chance.  And he drives the ball great and I didn't -- I drove the ball in play all day which helped me.  I didn't drive it great.   
 So if you drive it, you're going to have some opportunities to make some birdies.  You're going to have some opportunities to go for the par 5s.  So I think that's the main thing that I'll probably work on on the range.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT