UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 24, 2012
Mason Walters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  


  


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Mason Walters.     
   
 Q.   Do you maybe carry yourselves a little bit differently as an offense confidence-wise given what you were able to do against Ole Miss?   
MASON WALTERS:   Oh, yeah.   We've had the success the last couple weeks, thought we played well at Ole Miss.   The thing you have to be careful about with that, you still have to work as hard as you did day one.   Last couple years haven't been what we wanted to be around here.   There's a reason we've been working hard.   We don't want those results.   We have to stick to that.     
You have to handle success the same way you handle failure.     
   
 Q.   David different at all?   
MASON WALTERS:   No.   I really see him working hard, doing the same things.   Saw him this morning watching films, as he always is on Monday.   Sticking to the same schedule.     
Maybe we have a little more confidence in what we do, which is good, but you don't need to get overly so.   Get ready to practice tomorrow, get ready for OSU.   Conference champs last year.     
   
 Q.   What changes for you with the start of conference play versus non-conference?   
MASON WALTERS:   We talk about conference all year, all off-season.   You want to win your conference, that's our goal.   Now we have a chance to go out and start taking the steps in the direction to accomplish that.   You can never overlook pre-season.   At the end of the year you have to win those games to be in it.     
It's important.   But really the motivation you work all off-season for comes from your conference opponents, and now we're at a point where we can go out and start winning games to reach the goals we've set for ourselves.     
   
 Q.   Because OK State were the conference champs, do you approach them differently than you would another conference team?   
MASON WALTERS:   I think it's a little bit tougher on them.   They have the target on their back.   They won it last year, all the other teams know that.   I really think it's important because it's the next game on the schedule and you've got to win it to be undefeated.     
   
 Q.   This program has been 3-0 like the last decade.   The last couple years, 8-7, 8-5.   Conference games tripped you up.   How is this year going to be different?   
MASON WALTERS:   We're not the same team we were two years ago or last year.   We're going to win the games this year.   We've set out to do that.   We've done all the things we need to to get that done.   We've worked hard.   We deserve to go out there and play good teams and play with them.     
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you.     
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT