UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
August 27, 2012
Mason Walters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






Q. Inaudible.
MASON WALTERS: I don't know what the plan is as far as what we are getting into. We'll go over it tomorrow. I know we are looking forward to the challenge Wyoming is going to present. 
We don't really know what they are going to do defensively yet. We are just going to see everything we can and come out and execute against them.

Q. The offensive line, I'm guessing you want to‑‑ run down and get the best pass protection possible. 
MASON WALTERS: Absolutely. 

Q. How do you do that?
MASON WALTERS: You know, it's something we don't know too much about yet. They have a defensive coordinator that was the linebacker coach at Washington. So trying to watch them and get a feel for what we are going to see on the field. 
We don't know that yet so, what we are going to talk about all week is lining up and whatever we see, execute against it. Our defense does a great job of showing us multiple looks all throughout camp, and so I feel like we are going to be prepared to adjust on the run, and we have had to do it all summer. 

Q. What do you think is the difference? 
MASON WALTERS: A few better days, and it wasn't the caseof performing poorly. It was just he took it a step further, made some good reads, felt comfortable in the offense, audibles, checking out of things. He did a good job of that. That's really what makes a difference at this level. You have good competition everywhere and small things is going to separate them and that's what did.

Q. Do you think the offensive line has the potential in the opener‑‑
MASON WALTERS: I think overall, the offense has improved, especially‑‑ we have worked hard in camp. We have had a really good camp and we know we can be good and have great team speed, a lot of things we can do. Coach Harsin utilizes it all really well butwe are improving after last season, still. Offensive line, definitely, but that's across the board. 

Q. Can't wait to hit somebody else. Been going against our defense and it's been fun to go against them but like you said, it's time to go, it's football season, it's time to cross somebody else. 

Q. What do you say to the freshman‑‑
MASON WALTERS: I look back on my freshman year, the first time I ran out of the tunnel and nobody could have explained that sensation, what you're going to be feeling. Just trust in the plan, it's going to be crazy at times, you're going to go into autopilot and however well you prepared during the week is going to be what's on the field. 

Q. With three or four great running backs, how does the offense have to adjust? 
MASON WALTERS: You know when you have multiple guys like that, you can't get used to just doing one thing to complement that back. You have to run the offensive plays designed and they will adjust to that. Blocking schemes don't change when somebody else comes into the game. They have gotten used to the way we block it and they all treat it a little bit differently, and they are all really good at. 

Q. Why is he so good‑‑
MASON WALTERS: He runs behind his bauds, get downhill, doesn't ever shy away from contact. We'll be going in practice and boom, he's running into somebody. He's got good speed, too, and that's something you like to see; he's explosive and I think that's what is so great about his game. 

Q. Is there anything off the field‑‑
MASON WALTERS: You see a lot of the same things, and really, you really see a lot of Whittaker's characteristics in those guys, which is neat because he's a hard working guy and these guys are coming along doing the same stuff. 
Joe has a little bit more of a personality, a little bit more character to him‑‑ a little bit more flamboyant, not in a cocky way at all. He's fun to be around. He's always cutting up a little bit. Once he puts that helmet on, he's a force to be reckoned with. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT