UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 14, 2011
Mason Walters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






 Q. One of the things Mack talked about was just the offense not playing very well. What do you guys need to do to give protection and just get things clicking right on offense? 
 MASON WALTERS: We need to go straight back to work starting today. We need to really analyze our opponent and then after that we need to do all the little things that we didn't do well enough last week, maybe a little bit too much confidence coming off two wins, and we just need to do all the little things, as small as get sleep, eat what we are supposed to, get in the weight room a little bit more, cool down after practice make the difference, because you look at games that you lose and you see what did I do differently, and it's usually small things. It's nothing huge. I mean, you work hard in practice, do the same things there, but you just check your routine, and we're going to have to be a lot more strict about that this week.

 Q. Anything from your experience last year with Kansas State come up this year, and is it applicable at all?
 MASON WALTERS: Well, I think we learned a lesson that we could have learned last year watching film but we learned it at a different level. They're going to come, play physical football, and you'd better have your chin strap on tight because they're coming to play. I think this year more than last year we're going to embrace that challenge. 

 Q. What do you do differently to make sure the offense gets up and going on Saturday?
 MASON WALTERS: We have to embrace the fact that it's football, we have injured players, we know that. That's part of the game. It's not easy at all, like you said, and Kansas State is going to take advantage of that in any way they can. People that are healthy, Coach talks about you've got to pick up where the other guy left off, and if somebody is injured, people that are playing, you need to play harder to pick up the slack for them, and whoever comes in for them just needs to work their tail off. 
 Somebody getting injured creates opportunity for somebody else, and that's the good thing about it is somebody embraces that, really internalizes it and say, this is my shot, and can make a good player a great player. 

 Q. Is that kind of easier said than done, though? You've got guys hurt and then nobody really stepped up when they came in. 
 MASON WALTERS: Oh, yeah, it's definitely easier said than done, but if you can do it, it pays dividends.

 Q. You've got a pair of seniors amongst that offensive line. Can you talk about David and Tray? 
 MASON WALTERS: Yeah, coming in, both those guys, they were already kind of established older guys when I was new on campus, and they've both helped me out in places on the field and off the field. Like you said, for them, they've got their last home game here, and it's going to be one of those things where we go out and fight for them as hard as we can in the last home game.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT