UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 3, 2011
Mason Walters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






 Q. Talk about the challenge --
 MASON WALTERS: They really attack well up front and the linebackers are running -- in fact, I think the linebackers are a great complement to their D-Line.

 Q. What's the biggest thing for you guys to get after? 
 MASON WALTERS: I think in a game like this, it's going to be really assigned to detail and you have to really run the ball to win a game like this.

 Q. What can you tell David and other guys in their first game?
 MASON WALTERS: Enjoy it. It will be nothing like you've experienced before and something you'll never forget.

 Q. What's your favorite memory, favorite part of this game? What do you look forward to the most?
 MASON WALTERS: The challenge it presents. There's a rivalry between OU and Texas, through history, good teams, and the amount of respect each team has for each other is very high. You go into it, you know you are going to get the other guy's best shot in this game. 

 Q. How much easier is this year than last year for you personally? 
 MASON WALTERS: You know, I think I have a little bit of an advantage; I got to play in the game once before. That's the only thing that's going to be easier. We are going to have the same challenges and level of difficulty this year as we did last year.

 Q. Was it tough walking out on the field --
 MASON WALTERS: Just something else you have to deal with. You have to deal with processing everything, and this year, hopefully just a little bit more focus on the actual game plan and what we need to do. 

 Q. What kind of trash talking do you hear? 
 MASON WALTERS: You can hear everything, and I have heard everything. Not just on the field, mainly getting to the game where you hear it the most. 

 Q. Inaudible. 
 MASON WALTERS: Got a long way to go this season, and we were 0-5 last year, if you're going to compare, we still have a long way to go but that's nobody's expectations in the locker room. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT