UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 19, 2012
Mason Walters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






Q.   We've always talked a lot about what could have happened after Oklahoma the way everything went down, and now you guys are really right back in the mix with a real possibility at a Big 12 title.   Can you talk about that swing in just a little more than a month?
MASON WALTERS:   Well, it's a really competitive conference and you have to come to play every week and seem to learn that just as we have.   And I wouldn't have believed you if you would have told me it turned out this way, but that's just the way it works.   We gave up the part of controlling our destiny when we lost those two games, so all we can do is keep playing after that, and we've got to keep taking it one game at a time, and who knows what'll happen.   It'll be exciting to watch. 

Q.   Are you still excited about‑‑ I know you're excited about every game, but the fact that it's not A&M this week? 
MASON WALTERS:   I really think it's more about like the Thanksgiving tradition and being able to play here in DKR.   That's great and that's Texas tradition, that's something that we do.   So a lot of those same things are staying in place. 
TCU is a really good opponent and there's a lot of tradition with them, so we're just getting to learn some different things about Texas.

Q.   Do you feel sorry for those Aggies that they're not playing in this game anymore and you guys are thankful to still have this chance to play?
MASON WALTERS:   I don't know how they feel about it, but I'm really excited to get out and come out on Thanksgiving.   It's one of those unique environments that not every college football player gets to play in, so I'm very grateful to get to play in this environment, and the stadium will just be rocking on Thanksgiving night, then get to spend the weekend with your family and watch everybody else play ball.

Q.   I was telling Coach Brown that I'm sure the Dallas Cowboys could use you and the rest of these offensive linemen.   The Cowboys gave up seven or eight sacks yesterday and you guys have only given up one sack in the last four games.   Is that a barometer of how well this offensive line has been playing?
MASON WALTERS:   I mean, I know for the Cowboys it's tough and I'm sure they're working on it and doing everything they can.   I just know for us since last year it's something we've really worked on is limiting the number of sacks we've given up.   We've given up seven this season and we don't want to give up any more.   We've got a couple of really tough challenges going into this week.   TCU has two really good defensive ends and their whole front seven is good and aggressive. 
So we've got a couple of challenges here at the end to keep those numbers where we want them, but we're excited for the challenge and it'll just prove how far we've come from last year. 

Q.   What do you know about these Frogs?
MASON WALTERS:   They're physical, they're well coached, they're going to play four quarters really hard.   They don't blitz a whole lot, they don't do way too many things unique up front, but they're very sound in what they do, and they're going to be ready to play. 
I know Texas and TCU haven't played for a long time.   There's some state pride that goes on in this game and both teams are going to be ready to go and take their best shot at each other and it'll be whoever plays the hardest the longest.

Q.   Is there a senior that's had an impact on you?
MASON WALTERS:   I guess most of this graduating class are‑‑ Kenny and Alex I came in with and Barrett Matthews, and those are guys just going through the whole college experience that I went through it with them, so they'll always be special to me.   And then I think one guy that just comes out, thinking about it, is Jeremy Hills.   He's a guy that's done everything right since he got here.   He's a guy you can kind of model what you do after and know you're not going to get in trouble if you do anything that Jeremy does. 
The way he approaches the game of football, how selfless he is, I think that's really the tone for the senior class.   Just the lesson everybody has learned is to be good at football you need to be selfless, you need to be playing for something bigger than you.   And Jeremy I really think epitomizes that, and he's helped me along the way. 

Q.   I know Johnathan and Alex were telling us their favorite dishes their grandmothers or mothers cooked, Alex was stressing the dressing.   You're already thinking about it‑‑
MASON WALTERS:   I already know what the answer is.   When it comes to Thanksgiving food, my grandmother makes the best dressing ever.   I'll put it up against Alex Okafor's grandmother's dressing any day.   I might have to bring him some back, just so he knows.   It's delicious, and we'll be having plenty of helpings of my grandmother's dressing this weekend.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT