UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 5, 2012
Mason Walters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






Q.   You're 11 a.m. game?   Anything you can do? 
MASON WALTERS:   It's just pretty much college football.   You've got to get up and ready for it and play ball.   It's something this team will have to do and get ready for.   Whatever we can do this week, we'll do.   I'm sure the coaches will have something for us.

Q.   How different is your day from an 11 a.m. game to the game last week? 
MASON WALTERS:   It's a lot shorter, really.   You're up and it's football from there on out.   Really, I don't know how you could change anything else to make us more productive.   We're going to be up at 6 a.m., pregame meal at 7:00, and then play football.   2:30 games gives you a little more time to sleep in.   Then obviously with the late game, you have to lay around in the hotel all day and make sure your mind is focused.   So I think 11 a.m. for us brings challenges.   We just have to get up and get ready.

Q.   How different is it to see the empty seats in the game versus coming out at 7:00 for you guys?
MASON WALTERS:   I don't really notice it or I haven't.   But, no, another thing is this year at the stadium, our fans have been so great for us and coming out and supporting us full force.   This year is the loudest it's been since I've been here, and that's always encouraging.   So hopefully we'll have a good crowd and a lot of energy Saturday at 11 a.m.

Q.   Do you remember the 2010 Iowa State game when they came here?   How do you avoid a similar situation? 
MASON WALTERS:   Well, something in that game I realized how well‑coached and tough and physical Iowa State is.   I won't take that for granted.   I don't think anybody on this team will.   They're a tough, serious opponent and they've played some good teams really close in this conference.   They've held some teams to low numbers. 
Knowing they have a good defense will be a really big challenge for us on the offensive side of the ball.

Q.   Does the team like a similar situation though?   Big road win, come back, potential letdown game? 
MASON WALTERS:   I guess you could set it up that way.   But I don't think anybody on this team is looking past Iowa State.

Q.   Are you guys done playing the spoiler role and back to being the favorites and being the Texas program that everyone expects you to be? 
MASON WALTERS:   If we play consistently, yes.   But if we keep having our ups and downs, then we'll be what we've been all year.   But I think this team can find a level of consistency and put that together in all three phases for four quarters.   We can play football with anybody when we do that.

Q.   How hard was it to ignore all the doubters?   They could have easily gotten you guys down, but you seemed to remain positive?
MASON WALTERS:   You know, and that was just last week.   That's happened a lot this year.   This is something we've all addressed and talked about.   (Indiscernible) those are the ones that matter and the other brothers on the team.   Really coming together as a team and focusing on what we need to improve on and being critical of ourselves.   But in doing that, understanding that we were critical with a positive attitude of getting better.   But that's really the biggest thing.

Q.   (Indiscernible).   Can you talk about Major Applewhite going into the Hall of Fame this week? 
MASON WALTERS:   Really?   I didn't know that.   That's news to me.   That's awesome for him.   I didn't watch him too much growing up.   But getting to be around him as a coach, he's a great man, a great coach, and he's fun to work with every day.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
MASON WALTERS:   I'll vote tomorrow, yes, sir.   It's my civic duty, so I'll definitely do that.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
MASON WALTERS:   It was really good to see.   I know we've seen glimpses of that.   It's been a little frustrating for us and the fans this year is we haven't really seen a full, three‑phase performance come together for 60 minutes at a consistent level. 
Saturday was not perfect by any stretch of the imagination; however, to see some consistent play in all three phases was really encouraging.   Hopefully we can do that from here on out.




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT