UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 22, 2012
Mason Walters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






Q.   Is Kansas more a basketball school than a football school?
MASON WALTERS:   They have a football school, and they have the same practice hours that we carry, so I'm sure they have a lot of guys there that go out and compete hard every day. They're going to be a good challenge for us. I mean, Kansas plays well at home.

Q. These guys are coming off a six‑game losing streak right now.
MASON WALTERS:   I don't know about that. There's going to be 11 guys on the field versus another 11 guys. Whoever prepares the best over the next week and works the hardest is going to win.

Q. Carrington says you can't let this be a trap game. Is that really true?
MASON WALTERS:   I think so. This year more than most because the Big 12 is really competitive, and anybody can get beat every week. We're going to have to be on top of our game and get a win in Lawrence.

Q. Now, those 60 skill position guys don't want to play in the cold, but for an O‑lineman that's pretty nice?
MASON WALTERS:   I'll enjoy it. I don't think you can get too cold for my taste, but I hope I don't ask for more than I can bear in that regard. It's a long season. But I'm looking forward to it. Hopefully get some cool weather. That's what offensive linemen love.

Q. What's the difference between playing in the warm in Austin versus playing in a cold weather game?
MASON WALTERS:   It's kind of a mentality. Everything hurts a little bit more, your fingers are numb, you're down in the trenches. It's just another level of toughness you can play up to.
And then the other thing, you don't get tired near as quickly. You're not losing sweat like you do in the heat. There's a couple good advantages.

Q. Do you do anything different for an 11:00 game?   How do you change‑‑
MASON WALTERS:   I don't think I did enough. Definitely going to start my schedule getting up earlier. That 6:00 a.m. pregame meal comes early, so just got to get your body used to getting up early and understanding that you kind of have to go through that process earlier in the week to get your body ready for an 11:00 game.

Q. What do you know about the Kansas defense?
MASON WALTERS:   That's about it. They've got a couple good players I remember watching on film from last year that probably if they've gone and been in the weight room and been working like we have been in Austin, then I'm sure they're going to be a tougher challenge this year than they were last. I haven't gotten to watch any film yet, but we're going to jump on that after talking to you all and get ready for it.

Q. After the way you guys ran against Kansas last year, does it get you a little more excited for this game?
MASON WALTERS:   I think the reason we're pumped for this game is because it's the next one. It could be win No.6, make us Bowl eligible. That's why we're putting a lot of emphasis on it.

Q. How important is it to reach Bowl eligibility for you guys?
MASON WALTERS:   Very, very important. I spent a lot of time with my family two years ago over that Christmas break, and I didn't enjoy it and I don't think they enjoyed being around me. It's very important to get that Bowl eligibility and keep the season going.

Q. Are you surprised there are more touchdowns than punts in the conference?
MASON WALTERS:   Not really. There's some really, really explosive powerful offenses out there, and if they get rolling it's really hard to stop. Hopefully‑‑ I don't know, we continue to work‑‑ a lot of season left, so I'm sure defenses will be stepping their game up and figuring out different ways to stop these offenses. But I don't know, I just really hope to be one of those teams that's having more touchdowns than punts.

Q. (Inaudible.)
MASON WALTERS:   Our defense is working hard day in and day out, so I don't think so. We're doing enough to win, and that's what's important. Hopefully we'll keep that trend going and continue to work hard every day and get after each other in practice and improve.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT