U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR FOUR-BALL CHAMPIONSHIP
May 29, 2017
Mary Ellen Shuman
Sammie Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  First take me back, you guys were I think 3 down and you won 12 through 14 all with birdies.  What happened on that three-hole stretch there?  
MARY ELLEN SHUMAN: Yeah, there was kind of a lot of back and forth.  If one of us played bad, the other one picked up where we left off, so that was good.  12 -- what was 12?  You know, you're kind of just at that point and you're 3 down, our dads are like, hey, time to dig down deep and find something, and you go --   
SAMMIE LEE: Just fire at it.   
MARY ELLEN SHUMAN: You go back for four years of college back and look back on those moments where you've pulled it together from 3 down, and I made a birdie, she made a birdie, I made a birdie.  We've just got to keep fighting.   
 Q.  That's how you finished it, too, you had the big up-and-down on 18 here.  What was your read on that putt to send it to extra holes?  
MARY ELLEN SHUMAN: Yeah, we knew it was going to break a little right to left and we had nothing to lose, so I had a little pace on it just to make sure it got there, and just trusted the line.  She was going to have pretty much a similar look at it, so that gave me a little bit more confidence, as well, to have two looks almost at the same putt, so I just hit it, and I feel like I said, make sure you get it there, don't leave it short.   
 Q.  How long a putt do you think that was, on 18?  
MARY ELLEN SHUMAN: Probably 15.  Yeah, 15 feet.   
 Q.  On the extra hole, she picks up on the green and you pick her up, your approach shot, was your plan of execution to try to get that roll to the right or was that a fortunate break?  
MARY ELLEN SHUMAN: I was going a little bit left of the pin.  Not quite as left as I had hit it, but it worked out for me.  Like I said, I got a good member's bounce.  Someone was looking out for me up there, and nine feet past the pin.   
 Q.  And then again on the putt, what was your read?  What was your distance and the break?  
SAMMIE LEE: We decided outside right because I wasn't going to hit it very hard because I still needed to make the 4, and it ran way past the hole.  Thought I left it short, but it just snuck in the left corner.  But it was the right read, and would have been an easy tap-in had it not gone in, but it did thankfully.   
 Q.  How do you keep it together when you're down three to a good team like that?  They finished second in this event last year.  How do you keep focused and not worry about what the score says?  
MARY ELLEN SHUMAN: I mean, you have to know that there's enough time.   
SAMMIE LEE: Yeah, it was early, and yeah, we were down, but we had plenty of time left, and like we said, just kind of keep being aggressive, keep going at it.  I mean, there's two of us, so I think that kind of helps your chances.  If the two of us get on the green, we could at least two two putts for birdie, so just playing that way, and just looking at the holes a little bit differently but just being aggressive.   
 Q.  Your two putts that you both made, where do those rank kind of in your playing career as far as clutch goes?  
MARY ELLEN SHUMAN: They were pretty clutch.   
SAMMIE LEE: We made some clutch putts today between the two of us.  I think it's some of the best I've ever seen --   
MARY ELLEN SHUMAN: Our birdie putts.  Yeah, we didn't have any that were super easy.  One of our birdies to come back was a chip-in, so we didn't really have anything that was -- we're definitely going to make this.  So I think that it just gave us confidence early in the day that we had made some to know that we could make a couple more.   
 Q.  At a match play event like this, would you rather have an easy one or maybe get over-confident to start out with or do you think it's beneficial to get pushed like that right out of the gate?  
MARY ELLEN SHUMAN: I think today it was kind of beneficial to be pushed like that.  So I mean, I think it could go either way, but I would definitely say having to make some early, it gave us confidence later on in the day.   
SAMMIE LEE: Yeah, for sure.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT