OMEGA DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 14, 2011
Tandi Cuningham
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Difficult last hole, but just overall reaction to the round.   I mean 3‑under, you must be pretty happy. 
TANDI CUNINGHAM:   I'm still happy.   I feel like I put in a good day.   I had some lucky birdies on the front nine.   I hit the ball really well today. 
Just the last hole, a little oopsy on the last.   I think I got excited a little bit excited there knowing that I was coming in, and a nice hole to make a birdie on the last, and maybe just tried to force it a bit, but overall, still happy with my day.

Q.   And talk about the three, when you were in the trees and the sand and you hit that shot. 
TANDI CUNINGHAM:   Yeah.

Q.   What were you trying to achieve there?
TANDI CUNINGHAM:   Well, I hit my tee shot a bit left, caught the tree, dropped straight down, so I was trying to just recover it back into play, into the fairway, with the intention of laying up and hoping to wedge it close and having a chance of saving par so it didn't get worse. 
The recovery shot didn't quite make it all the way out.   I had to play another recovery out as far as I could, and I had about 170 meters left to go in, so I thought, well, let's have a crack at it, and that one pitched on the green and rolled back down into the water.   So yeah, what was a simple error ended up being quite a miss, to be honest, but tomorrow will be better.   I'll probably birdie it.

Q.   Absolutely.   I mean the fact the first 17 holes were so good must give you massive confidence for the rest of the tournament. 
TANDI CUNINGHAM:   Absolutely.   Absolutely, yes.   Absolutely.

Q.   Tomorrow, what's your aim, to go out and shoot 6‑under?
TANDI CUNINGHAM:   No, my aim is to go out tomorrow and just keep doing what I was doing today, and that would be just fairways and greens, keep bogeys off the score card and hope a couple putts will drop. 

Q.   Well, good luck.   Thank you very much. 
TANDI CUNINGHAM:   Thank you. 

Q.   Obviously you were in contention until the final hole.   What happened?
TANDI CUNINGHAM:   Oh, yeah.   Last hole, could I go back and do it again, please?   I hit it a bit left off the tee, unfortunately.   Caught the tree, dropped down to the sand, and my recovery shot didn't make it all the way out, so I had to recover again, then I had 170 meters into the flag, which I then took a hybrid and didn't quite hit it as well as I needed to, pitched on the other side, rolled back in, then proceeded to wedge it on and two‑putt for a lovely 8.   But tomorrow I'm going to birdie it.

Q.   What were you thinking when you were walking up to the green?
TANDI CUNINGHAM:   I was like, oh, please just wake up and go back, tell me that I haven't teed off yet.   But it's golf.   You know, I think no one is immune to getting excited or to feeling a bit anxious at times, and I think that time I just needed to be a bit more calm. 
So yeah, I feel quite positive about my day still, definitely feel like I've walked away learning more and look forward to playing tomorrow.

Q.   Prior to that obviously you were having a great round. 
TANDI CUNINGHAM:   Yeah.   No, my day had been very solid.   I had some lucky birdies on the opening few holes.   I knocked in a great putt on the first hole from 35 feet, so started off guns blazing, and turned the front nine 3‑under, no drops, and then I just made a birdie on 16, 17.   So 18 I was thinking, oh, one more birdie would be nice, and surprise, I got a little bit ahead of myself.   But still good.

Q.   Does the 18th affect your confidence going into tomorrow?
TANDI CUNINGHAM:   No.   No.   I'll actually use that to fuel me to do more positive and more driven.   I'll use it as a constructive drive. 

Q.   Best of luck tomorrow. 
TANDI CUNINGHAM:   Thank you very much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT