CART MEDIA CONFERENCE
December 16, 1998
Andrew Craig
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 

T.E. McHALE: Good afternoon to  everybody.  Happy holidays to you all and thanks  for joining us this afternoon.  Our guest today  is CART chairman and chief executive officer,  Andrew Craig.  Andrew, good afternoon.  Thanks  for being with us.  Andrew has a few opening  remarks, and then we will begin taking  questions.  At this point, I will turn it over to  Andrew.

ANDREW CRAIG: Good afternoon,  everybody.  First of all, I will just start with  a brief apology.  A few weeks back, I was meant  to be the guest on our teleconference and,  unfortunately, due to illness, I had to cancel at  very short notice, so my apologies for that  cancellation.  Let me just also add, my best wishes  for the holiday season ahead.  I think the best and most productive  use of this time is to try to open to questions  so that you can have every opportunity to discuss  every and any issue you would like to cover.  Let me just start, however, with a  very brief summary of the year and some of the  highlights throughout the year.  First of all,  obviously, from a racing perspective, we were -  with one caveat - we were extremely pleased with  our season.  We ran 19 races for the first time  with seven different winners.  We had a highly  competitive season.  The obvious caveat to all of  that is the deaths of three spectators of  Michigan.  It was a terrible tragedy which  obviously will rest with us for many, many years  to come.  With that one sad exception, I think we  had a first class year on the racetrack.  A number of highlights throughout  the year in addition to the racing, of course, is  at the beginning of the year, we would like to  welcome FedEx as a title sponsor for the series  in the four-year agreement.  I think the FedEx  have made a good start in their first year.  It  takes time for any relationship to build and  develop.  It's a new sport for them, and I think  they have made some real steps in the right  direction.  I see them being a significant force  in the promotion of the sport going forward.  The second highlight, of course, is  that in March, we took the company public with an  initial public offering on the New York Stock  Exchange, and plus more importantly, the offering  itself, which as a consequence, we have acquired  the Indy Lights Series and the Toyota Atlantic  Series and started the basis for our latter  system which we intend to use to help us in  growing the sports and growing the athlete base  within the sports in the years ahead.  That's  just one part of our plan to develop the  business.  We also made two very significant  staff appointments during the year.  In mid  season, actually, more precisely, I believe it  was over the Detroit weekend, we employed Jeff  Horton as our vice-president of electronics.  I  think that underscores the ever increasing  complexity of the series and, in fact, Jeff was  brought on specifically to look at issues  relating to traction control or, more precisely,  lack thereof, but it gives you some feeling for  the level we are at now where we have to have  somebody of a vice-president level to supervise  this important area of the business.  More  recent, I was delighted to welcome Tim on board  as our senior for racing operations.  Tim is  going to help us considerably in the  administration and organization of the racing  side of our business.  Looking towards next year very  briefly, and then I will turn it over to you, we  are going to have 20 races next year.  We are  delighted to be out in Chicago.  It's a downtown  venue.  We think it will work extremely well for  us, certainly from the interests I have seen in  Chicago so far.  Both from a spectator point of  view and from a sponsor point of view, I think we  should have a hit there.  With regard to the  number of cars for next season, it's really too  early to predict precisely how many cars we will  have.  We are getting to that stage where lots of  things are happening, lots of things in the  process, but I think we are probably looking at  something in the range of 27 to 29 cars.  So  that's approximately where we are right now, with  some significant changes, but, obviously, it's up  to the teams themselves to announce where they  are going forward.  So with that, I think I will throw  it to our long list of guests today, and we will  take it from there.

T.E. McHALE:  Thanks, Andrew.  Again, we are grateful you all joined us this  afternoon.


Q.  Andrew, just looking at the whole  future, I think everybody is now quite clear  where things stand with Indianapolis with their  situation on the engine front, and in terms of  you going forward, you know, setting now all of  that aside - all of that has been discussed and  people know where things stand - what do you see  now as your primary issues over the next couple  of years, and I wonder if you could really  identify - there has been so many new races that  are being mooted - from Road Atlanta to the place  in Germany.  Which of those are really the ones  that you are primarily looking at for the future  growth as well?

ANDREW CRAIG: Well, I think with  regard to growth, we have to continue to work for  a resolution and look for a resolution, but at  the same time, we have to plan on the basis that  there will not be a resolution.  We think that's  the only sensible way forward.  In our planning  of the sport, we are working on the basis of a  stand-alone series, but at the same time, that  should not be interpreted to mean that we are not  working for a resolution in other ways.  As I  said before, I don't want to comment on the  specifics of what we may or may not be doing.  In  terms of finding a resolution, I really think  those things are better not discussed in a public  forum, but suffice it to say, that's the way we  approached this; work for a resolution, but at  the same time, plan on the basis there won't be.  You are right, there is a lot out there of great  interest, lots of building of tracks and so  forth.  I think we made no secret of the fact  that as far as the United States market is  concerned, to race in the south would be  important to us, and certainly a race in Road  Atlanta would certainly meet our requirements in  that regard.  We have had discussions with Don  Penos and his people.  We seem to have a fine  facility that made very extensive improvements,  but certainly a place we would like to race in  the future, at this stage, there is no agreement  to do so.  Another part of the world where if  you look at a map of the states and look at our  current race distribution where clearly we need  to look to the future is the west central  region.  Certainly a race in the Denver area or  thereabouts would be of interest to us.  Now, of course, overseas, we have  been very clear, the number one priority for us  in terms of overseas races will be to race in  Europe, and within Europe, our clear preference,  clear stated preference will be for a race in  Germany.  Our thinking being there that we like  the idea of linking the walls, the western walls,  United States, Japan and Germany.  We also like  the idea of being in what is Europe's most  dynamic marketplace and, particularly, being near  the eastern Europe where our kind of racing and  anything American has great appeal.  Certainly,  to race in Germany would be our number one  overseas goal in terms of additional races.  Now, all of that, of course, has to  be a combination within the needs of the teams.  One thing I have to make very clear is that we  have to grow the series with the teams.  We can't  just add races and hope the teams can finance the  addition of those races through additional  sponsorship.  Any growth going forward has to be  very carefully managed with our race teams, and  that's where we are at this current time.  We  have 20 races next year.  We will work closely  with our teams to see how we can expand a  schedule.  We can also look to rationalize our  existing venues.  I am not going to comment on  that because, obviously, we have existing  contracts right now, and we would honor those  contracts in full.

Q.  Hi.  Do you have any idea when you are  going to have the engine rules package ready?

ANDREW CRAIG: We have a meeting of  our franchise teams - that's the full group of 24  franchise teams - coming up in early January.  We  will certainly be discussing our engine rules at  that time.  I couldn't tell you precisely what  the timing will be, but that is the next  step.  We are going to have a meeting in  January.

Q.  Actually, it's sort of a follow-up, do  you anticipate there will probably be some kind  of definitive action on engine rules sometime in  calendar '99?  I know the engine manufacturers have  an agreement that it would be a two-year notice,  but will we see something happen during calendar   '99 on future engine rules.

ANDREW CRAIG: Thanks for giving me  so much latitude.  The answer to that one will be  yes.

Q.  Happy holidays to you and your family,  Andrew.  I saw you in New York at the NASCAR  banquet.  This is kind of in reference with  NASCAR.  By internal benchmarks, CART  probably had one of its best years on the track  and financially, but using external benchmarks,  the rise in popularity of NASCAR, I wonder what  type of long-term planning is going on to get the  growth of CART someplace, to get it moving in  view of the overall U.S. market?

ANDREW CRAIG: Your question is  absolutely fair and valid.  I mean, quite  clearly, NASCAR is a much stronger property today  than we are.  Regrettably, when we look at the  past, we did not make some critical investments  in terms of marketing of the sport, and now we  are playing catch-up.  In fact, that may seem  like a long time to come.  It has actually only  had a marketing department in place for the past  18 months.  It has had extensive public relations  activities prior to that time, but in terms of a  marketing department to help develop the sport,  nothing was in place 18 months ago, and perhaps  more critically, the budget necessary to carry  out that activity did not exist either.  Within  the resources available to us, we have started to  market the sport I think much more effectively.  We promote our races effectively.  We promote the  idea of being a fan of the sport more  effectively, and we will continue to do that.  Obviously, I would love to have more money with  which to do that.  We have limited funds.  We  will be announcing the appointment of a new  specialist coming on board in the area of  communications to work with our public relations  group which will certainly bring more focus away  from the racetrack.  I think we have done a very  good job actually of improving the quality of the  communication with you and other motor sports  journalists, but clearly now, we need to expand  way beyond that and communicate more effectively  with the lifestyle sector and, secondly, we need  to promote the sport in the literal sense of  promotion far more effectively in terms of  promotions; allowing people to get involved in  the sports, take part in competitions and so far  and so forth.  One of the key elements to the  promotion of any sport in 1999 is the role that  sponsors play in that, and that is absolutely  critical.  It's absolutely critical.  Our  sponsors get behind the sport, which many of them  are, and I think increasingly more will do so in  the future.  The short message is, it's unlikely  we can do this job completely on our own.  Very  few sports do.

Q.  Have you had any kind of quantifiable  feedback about the million dollar fan giveaway at  Fontana?

ANDREW CRAIG: Well, I think there  are two ways you can look at that.  I think that  the promotion itself was extremely beneficial in  that it attracted a lot of attention, a lot of  interest to our sports.  I think it was generally  positively received.  Obviously, from a  television perspective, we are extremely  disappointed with the results.  On the other  hand, I think it would be naive on our part or  anybody's part, for that matter, not to recognize  the realities of a late season event.  The  problems of scheduling, particularly late season  scheduling remain absolutely key, not just for  us, but for all sports.  I think the million  dollar promotion was considered by certainly most  people to have been a positive and constructive  step in building interest over the sport.  These  things don't happen overnight.  You don't run a  significant promotion, suddenly, people follow  the sport.  The important thing is to be  consistent and communicate similar or the same  messages over a long period of time and,  obviously, you will attract more fans to follow  the sport.

Q.  Andrew, you mentioned just a little bit  earlier in your remarks that, although while it's  recognized that you would like to get back to  Indianapolis and find some way to merge, you are  also looking at moving CART in such a way that if  it doesn't happen, you want to continue to move  ahead which, of course, brings up the question of  some sort of a signature event which CART still  does not have, and I am wondering in your looking  at promoting the series, where that signature  event falls in the ranking of importance and what  the current thinking is on creating that?

ANDREW CRAIG: I don't think it's a  question of having one signature event.  I think  it's a question of having two or three highlights  throughout the season, which I guess at a time by  definition become signature events.  That's not  something that you can make happen.  Those are  things that evolve and develop over time.  As I  was just saying earlier when replying to the last  question, certainly Fontana from our perspective  will step in the right direction, but it doesn't  become a signature event because we want it to be  one.  It's something you have to work at  consistently over many years.  In fact, many  signature events almost evolve - I am talking now  way beyond motor racing - they evolve naturally.  You can't force-feed the consumer and say, "well,  this is our signature event, therefore, you will  enjoy it."  What we can do is provide highlights  throughout the season.  We are working on certain  plans right now for 1999, which will focus the  consumer's attention, capture their imagination  - hence, in the case of Fontana - a million  dollars for the driver and the potential for a  fan to win a million dollars - capture the fans'  imagination and the public's imagination and,  hopefully, they will watch you.  If they like  what they see, they may come back in the future.

Q.  I guess the question is, there has been  much discussion here after the race in Vancouver  this last year about what the future of the  Vancouver site is, the Vancouver race.  Can you just talk about that a  little bit?

ANDREW CRAIG: We were not satisfied  with the racing facility provided in Vancouver  this year.  We underwent a significant track  change.  As with any temporary track, although  you can look at plans and diagrams and so forth,  you never quite know exactly what you are going  to get until the weekend of the race.  We made it  very clear at the time we were extremely  uncomfortable with the track and with many of the  facilities associated with the track.  As you  probably know, we put the Vancouver race on our  1999 schedule on a provisional basis.  We had  what I think have been some very constructive  meetings with our good friends at Molson and  Molstar, and I think we made a lot of progress.  There have been meetings in Toronto at the head  office.  There have always been a series of site  visits.  The site visit itself is a challenge  because the site itself is something else when  you get there, a parking lot, a public road or  whatever.  The exact situation today is that  while -- I'm sorry, let me also add, we also had  meetings with our drivers to discuss track  changes that we put forward which had been agreed  to by Molson to make sure that works for our  drivers.  Everything is moving in the right  direction.  I have to say, at this moment, we do  not have enough concrete or definitive  information that would cause us to take the  provisional status off the events.  We have  received significant inputs in the last couple of  days, actually, from Molson at this point, but we  have gone back with him today to ask for  furthermore definitive descriptions of certain  things which we asked for which they agreed to  do.  We wanted to start out with a little more  clarity.  I think things are moving in a very  positive direction, but at the same time, there  is still some work to do before we are prepared  to take off the provision status.

Q.  Would that suggest then this year's  race will be very important to the Vancouver  event?

ANDREW CRAIG: Yes, I think that's  absolutely correct, but I think the important  moment is now because now is when we get it  right.  We won't get it right on the weekend we  are racing in Vancouver.  We got to make  absolutely sure that it's going to be right now.  One of the strange features of a temporary road  course, you never quite know what is going to be  there until about a week after the race or even,  actually, three or four days prior to the race.

Q.  At the same time next year, there is  going to be a major golf tournament, a PGA golf  tournament held the same weekend as the Molson  Indy.  Does that give you any concern?

ANDREW CRAIG: The Molson Indy has  always been one of the most popular events on the  schedule.  I believe I am correct in saying it  attracts the single largest one day attendants  for any events in Canada.  I believe that's  correct.  That is correct.  So, obviously, it's a  very strong and very, very popular event with an  established following.  I think one of the  challenges is because we have not taken off the  provisional status right now, obviously, they  need to get out and sell tickets, and they can't  do that until we take the provisional status  off.  They have a backlog of orders, people want  to place orders, but they are not actually taking  any orders right now.  The PGA event I would say  is something which I think we can concur,  obviously, I think our promoter would be happy if  they didn't have this provisional status hanging  over them.  Obviously, it does provide on the  corporate side alternative opportunities for  hospitality and sponsorship and so forth.  On the  other hand, we have a very, very well developed  and very successful event in Vancouver which I am  very confident can hold its own.

Q.  When we announced FedEx in another  teleconference, you announced that you wanted to  establish a relationship between a brand, your  sport and our audience in the interest of what to  do for FedEx.  I wonder what your feedback, as  well as David Shoenfeld's response is after the  first year?  I ask that noting that you said that  it does take time to build this.  I wonder if you could talk about  mainly FedEx' initial impressions with how things  are going?

ANDREW CRAIG: I think that as the  year progresses with FedEx, more and more people  in the management level become involved in the  event -- I'm sorry, in the program, and as always  happens with these things, you start off with one  particular vision of how it's going to work for a  corporation, and then when the corporation starts  to get into it, we say, well, we can use this to  achieve our objectives; in terms of reaching new  clients.  I think this is a very healthy process,  and I have yet to see a sponsorship where this  isn't the case.  I think over the course of the  year, it really has evolved a lot with a lot more  divisions getting interested in what's going on  here, and I think now we are really ready to go,  and I think we are going to see FedEx become an  evermore active player going forward.  As I think  I said on several occasions, I want the  relationship between the FedEx name and our  series to become unanimous.  I want people when  they see a FedEx truck to think about our  series.  That's an attractive situation to be in,  particularly, when the obvious in terms of  objectives between the organizations exist in  terms of speed, performance, technology and so  forth and so forth.  I think we are beginning to  see that develop.

Q.  Actually, the earlier question about  the Vancouver race, I just had a couple of  additional questions to ask you.  You have 20 races next year.  I  don't know how critical the situation is.  Is there a deadline that you are  working to?  Do you have to know if everything --  all the ducks are lined up in place by January  15th or February 1st to go ahead with your full  20 races next year, and if for some reason you  don't go ahead with 20, could you at like a  moment's notice add an extra race?  I am thinking  of a race like Road Atlanta where they are  basically ready to go.  Is the Vancouver  situation not that critical where you don't  anticipate racing here next year?

ANDREW CRAIG: I am going to give you  an evasive answer.  First of all, our number one  objective is to get the situation in Vancouver  resolved.  That's our mind set.  We are not  sitting here thinking how can we not race in  Vancouver.  We are sitting here thinking how  could we get this resolved in a matter that works  for our competitors, works for our sponsors and  works for our teams.  That's the driving force  here.  Having said that, I do have plan B.

Q.  Could you tell us what that is?

ANDREW CRAIG: No, I really couldn't  because, you know, we want to try to get this  thing fixed.  It would be really inappropriate.  Sure we have a contingency plan.  You bet we do,  I want to get this fixed with Vancouver, and all  the signs are there.  We will get it fixed.  Molson is a terrific support of our company.  We  had a big hit last year, but everything we seen  so far, although we are not there yet, I think  Molson would like us to be there, we are not at  the point where we can take off that provisional  restriction, but all things are pointing in the  right direction, but it's not done yet.

Q.  Andrew, because of the popularity of  CART, not so much domestically, but overseas, we  were talking earlier about Road Atlanta going  into the southeast and going to Germany, are you  getting to the point now compared to a few years  ago where really you have a lot of, you know, you  have a lot of choices to go to and you can be  more demanding?  I am not just talking about  Vancouver, but any of your races where you can be  more demanding in terms of facilities.  Do you sort of maybe 3, 4, 5 years  down the line, there might be quite a shuffling  of races, some drops, some added that would work  into your marketing plans.  In some respects, you  probably are more in the driver's seat now than  you were five years ago let's say.

ANDREW CRAIG: I think even if today  we had 20 races and we only had 20 venues, I  think we would be looking for the significant  enhancements in standards, and when you look  around the series as a whole, you look at the  quality of the race teams and, certainly, the  very high quality of many, many of the racetracks  we go to, things have changed.  Many of the  tracks now have improved dramatically.  The  corporate side in terms of hospitality has  changed out of recognition.  I think regardless  of the fact that we may well be in a situation  where there are more venues out there than we can  run, we will still be looking for change, because  this is not a static environment.  Everything  needs to improve, and I think sometimes we tend  to think about competition in terms of other race  series.  That's a part of our competition, but  the other part is everything else you can do  apart from either watch our race on TV, or go  to the events.  Quite clearly, if other  attractions; not just sports events, other  attractions are providing a level of comfort in  our facility that we are not providing, then  that's going to be a challenge for us.  I think  it behooves us regardless of what may be  happening in racing to look for a consistent  upgrading of standards.

Q.  Just one brief question.  On Monday, there was a board  meeting, and we have an understanding that there  was a considerable discussion with regards to a  marketing and communications initiative.  Can you provide us with the  substance of that discussion, and how much  direction has the board given you as to how much  they want to spent and, more specifically, what  not are they concerned about?

ANDREW CRAIG: Let me address, first  of all, the more general issue of concern.  Quite  clearly, we all want to see the sport grow, and  one of the manifestations of growth is our  television rates.  It's not the only one, but it  tends to be the one on which the sport is  measured.  So, quite clearly, the board, and all  of our race teams, all of our sponsors, everybody  involved in the sport is concerned to see growth  going forward.  Marketing is one of the issues we  do review at our board meeting among many.  We  discuss what we are doing and where we are going  and what our budgets are, but, obviously, those  conversations are not public; they are private  among the board members, but when we do have  things to announce, obviously, we will do so, but  at this stage, we are having good discussions  with some possible future directions to what we  might do to expand and enhance in our marketing  capacities.

Q.  Andrew, it's kind of a follow-up again  to the Vancouver thing, and I guess, more or  less, three courses in general.  The street  course races certainly raise a profile on bigger  markets, but is there concern about the courses  themselves being maybe too narrow with I guess  either less passing or risky passing attempts and  becoming bogged down with yellow flags?  Basically, I guess I am just wondering if maybe  CART has outgrown the street courses?

ANDREW CRAIG: Well, the first point,  you are right.  The road courses have been very  important to the sport.  Actually, the term we  use to describe this, it's taking racing to the  people.  What we really love about the street  races is that it gives people who perhaps  wouldn't necessarily go to the event the  opportunity to make a quick decision on a Sunday  morning that this is what we will do today, and  it's there, it's in their backyard.  We call it  taking racing to the people, rather than  expecting them to come to us.  I think it's very,  very important, and it will continue to be an  important part of what we do.  You are actually  correct.  It's a challenge, and I think they are  becoming an increasing challenge.  I can only  tell you that it's something we address  continuously and try to improve road courses.  A  road course event is rarely the same from one  year to the next.  There are always things you  can do to improve, to widen, to increase run-off  areas or whatever.  Yes, they are very important  to us.  Yes, they can be a problem.  I can't tell  you the solution to that problem.  But given they  are important, we continue to work at trying to  make them as exciting as possible.

Q.  Good afternoon, Andrew.  Now, to the serious point, I guess,  when you look at the last couple of years and  then you look ahead to the next couple of years,  a two part question here, what is the strongest  link that you see in the chain of growth and what  is the weakest link?

ANDREW CRAIG: I think -- well, we  are in a sport where 95 percent of the income of  any race team is derived from sponsors.  I think  I'll answer your question by saying that that is  both a strength, but, obviously, a potential  vulnerability.  Today we have, according to  Business Week, a survey by Business Week through  IEG, we have over four hundred million dollars  worth of corporate support in the series.  I have  said before, the equation for a sponsor is a very  simple one.  If the value exceeds the cost, they  will continue to support the series.  If cost  exceeds value, they won't.  That really puts an  obligation on us in two ways, one, to make sure  that we provide the most cost-effective racing  that we can within the confines of what you want  to do as a sport, what the fans want that sport  to be, but it behooves us to make every sensible  step to control and contain costs.  The other  side of that is to obviously make sure the values  are there for a sponsor and values, of course,  are -- while television racing tends to be the  manifestation that people look to, the value is  far, far wider than that.  The strength is the  current strength of our sponsorship base; the  weaknesses obviously need to be continuously  renewed, and that's something which we all have  to work on seven days a week.

Q.  At about this time last year, you  talked quite extensively about the importance of  television and getting the ratings up for the  race.  In looking back and looking ahead,  how do you feel now looking to 1999 about your  television?

ANDREW CRAIG: In 1998, our network  racing was essentially stable, ESPN racing or  cable racing was down.  Looking towards 1999, we  have more races on network.  Given that we had a  stable network performance in 1998 and given that  we are going to have more network races going  forward, I think we are in reasonably good shape  to anticipate some improvement on the network  side going forward.  It's hard for me to say what  may or may not happen on cable, but certainly  given that we have 20 races, given that we have  more on network, and given that we will support  those races, the majority of those races with  advertising, I am reasonably confident that  having seen our network racing is stable this  year and a decline on cable which is no worse  than anybody's else, let me put it that way, I am  reasonably confident we may see some progress  next year.

Q.  I have two questions both relating to  possible reconciliation with the speedway.  There  has been a lot of discussion regarding engine  specifications, and I wondered whether Andrew can  comment at all about possible challenges in  reconciling chassis specifications as well, and  the second part of my question is the difficulty  in reconciling given the development of possible  personal conflicts among some of the high profile  players involved.
ANDREW CRAIG:  I didn't quite understand your second  question.  Let me answer the first part of that.  When you are dealing with engines, you are  dealing with, in our case, incredibly important  process in terms of Honda, Mercedes Benz and Ford  and, quite clearly, we have to look very, very  carefully at what their needs are.  The  relationship between teams and engine  manufacturers used to be that of a supplier, but  the engine manufacturers is not suppliers, they  are real partners in the whole process.  On the  chassis side of this, I would say that the  relationship still is primarily that of  supplier.  We are able to be much more mindful of  our some of more narrow needs in terms of what a  chassis might be.  Because of that, we really  have focused our attentions on the engine side of  this whole thing with a speedway at the stage and  the chassis will follow.  We will have to wait  and see where we go on that.  Obviously, right  now, there are two very different race cars out  there, and that's an issue which needs to be  addressed, but I am trying to focus at this  moment on the car issue which is the engines.  Could you repeat the second part of  your question because I didn't understand it?

Q.  It was a matter of whether personal  conflicts among the players involved could be an  obstacle to reconciliation.  It seemed at the  motor sports conference that you and Leo weren't  too interested in giving each other the time of  day on the panel.

ANDREW CRAIG: I wouldn't agree with  that, actually.  I wouldn't agree with that at  all.  I think, actually, on a personal basis, the  relationships are just fine.  Obviously when  people represent their special organizations in  public, they may take positions that are perhaps  more strident than they would personally, but I  don't think there is any particular problem in  that relationship.

Q.  You don't see that as being any sort of  an obstacle to meeting some common ground?

ANDREW CRAIG: I really don't.

Q.  My question is for Andrew regarding the  number of countries in which CART is viewed.  Can you give me the current number  and how do we know how many countries are seeing  our races?

ANDREW CRAIG: I believe the number  is 195.  It's 195, 194.  There are a number of  ways you can derive these pretty basic pieces of  information.  One is obviously from your  broadcast partners, and in our case, we know the  organizations with whom we have direct contracts,  Canada and Brazil and so forth, and then where  ESPN international distributes for us, we know  the number from them.  They can tell us the  number of countries.  The second stage of that is  if you going to carry out independent research to  verify audience numbers.  You do that through  third parties, through a search company who, in  turn, will work with third parties in each  country to verify where the race is run.  But the  number is 195 countries.

Q.  Happy holidays to you, Andrew.  Two  kind of pointed questions.  I see a news release  coming across my desk that CART hooks up with  action performance to start selling CART and  FedEx series related souvenirs and, Action  Performance, you know, they are named in lawsuits  with price fixing on these souvenirs and things  like that.  You guys are a public company.  Couldn't you have found another  player in that particular deal?

ANDREW CRAIG: Well, Action  Performance is also a public company as well, and  we obviously look very carefully at who our  licensed partners are.  Action Performance has a  very good reputation in the field.  We are very  confident they will represent the best interests  of CART extremely well, and I have no reason to  doubt that.  They are a master licensee, I would  emphasize.  They are not a partner as such.  They  are appointed to license certain products on our  behalf, but, obviously, like any licensee, we  will monitor that relationship very closely.  I  have no reason to believe it will be anything  other than successful.

Q.  All those big white FedEx trucks that  go around the United States, the other official  sponsors of a certain series, you know, in the  NASCAR Winston Cup Series and Western Auto when  they were the official auto parts store, they put  that NASCAR logo on there.  How much more would it take for them  to get that logo on those trucks because your  CART logo can go into a lot of places where it  doesn't go right now?

ANDREW CRAIG: We would love to have  that happen and, hopefully,, I will it.  It's an  incredibly expensive exercise to rebrand trucks.  It is incredibly expensive.

T.E. McHALE: At this point, I am  going to wrap things up for the afternoon.  We  want to thank you all for joining us on the  teleconference with Andrew today.  We want to  thank Andrew for being with us.  


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT