NCAA MEN'S 1ST AND 2ND ROUNDS: SPOKANE
March 20, 2016
Eran Ganot
Stefan Jankovic
Mike Thomas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Maryland - 73, Hawaii - 60
THE MODERATOR: We'll start with an opening statement from coach and then talk questions for the student-athletes.
COACH GANOT: Obviously, wish the turnout was a little better, but number one, as we always do, credit to a really good, well-coached Maryland team that fought, did what they have done all year, weathered some storms, because we were in control early.
But that stretch in the second half was a big hammer and very proud of our guys.  So number one, credit to Maryland, and their program, and their great staff, and a lot of respect there.
And then, two, very proud of our program and these guys here and these guys in the locker room.  This game it's awesome.  There's so much emotion in it, these guys care.  And, obviously, you can imagine how the locker room is.  But it gives you some great moments, too.
And then indicative, we fought to the end.  This group's got a lot of fight, just very proud of them for what they have done.  It's hard, I don't get to coach them again.  But it's a great group to coach.  Adversity over the course of the last couple years, this year within games, and I told them in the locker room, obviously, look, at the end of the day the game's great, but each of us has a job to work your tail off to get in a position of influence.  And to affect lives in a positive way.  These guys have done that.  They have galvanized the state and they represent the university, a great university, we have a tremendous athletic department, a great program, a great Big West Coast conference that we're proud to represent, a great state, and these guys make you believe.  They're tremendous in the community.  They're studs.  And they're studs all year.
Just really proud of them and it hurts now, like it should.  And that's why I say it's a great game, it gives you moments, and it gives you heart ache.  But just a special group and an honor to coach.
THE MODERATOR: For the student-athletes.
Q. Mike, so, obviously, not the outcome you guys expected or wanted.  But, overall, you had probably one of your best games all year.  You picked up your second career double double.  Can you just talk about coming in and having probably the best game all year in this big of a moment.
MIKE THOMAS: I think I just wanted to be aggressive today and try to help my team win the game.  To be honest, it wasn't anything different or anything out of sorts, it was just trying to be aggressive and win.
Q. How did you guys feel coming out with the Hawaii fans with the banana leaves and hearing them sing the Pono'i before the game.  They were getting really rowdy.  Talk about how you felt with that kind of support.
STEFAN JANKOVIC: Honestly, we have some of the best fans in the nation.  They really came out, they supported, the whole arena felt like we were basically in the Center Sheriff, and I just wish we, I mean, me especially, would have had a better effort for them.  But once again, really, really just the best fan base.
Q. Seemed like offensively the baskets were really hard to come by throughout the first half, even though you were leading, and especially during that seven minute run in the second half.  So what was it about Maryland's defense that was so challenging and suffocating and making baskets really hard to come by?
STEFAN JANKOVIC: I'll give credit to Maryland's defense.  It was tough, but we didn't make shots that we were supposed to make.  We missed a lot of layups, a lot of easy put backs, we didn't make shots.  They played great defense.  Again, I give credit to them, but we missed a lot of layups and a lot of shots that we usually make.
MIKE THOMAS: Credit their defense and being able to get after us a little bit.  Also like he said, there were just shots that we normally make, we should have, but we didn't.
Q. You guys are one of the top teams in the nation at getting to the free-throw line per field goal attempt.  Are you frustrated with only getting to the line a total of 15 times, compared to 31 for Maryland?  I know that's usually your guys' strategy, is to get to that line often.
MIKE THOMAS: That's how the ball bounces sometimes.  Sometimes you get calls, sometimes you don't.  You got to play through it.
COACH GANOT: I think that no excuses there.  Obviously, that's a big part of our identity.  We spread you out and play inside out and get to the free throw lines.
Last couple games we didn't get to the line as much as we would like, but that's on us.  We got to do a better job of being stronger in the paint.  And like Mike said, playing through some of that.
So, yeah, just credit them.  I thought we had some good looks in that stretch that didn't go down.  But I thought the biggest key in that stretch was giving them some run outs in transition.
Q. It seemed like No. 4 and No. 33 there for Maryland were really trying to push you out of the paint, making you play face up.  Are you comfortable having to play around the perimeter and face up most of the game?
STEFAN JANKOVIC: Yeah, completely.  I'll give them a lot of credit there, not just those two guys, their team defense is good.  As soon as I tried to dribble guys were around.  That's Maryland.  That's how a great team, a great coach, and whatnot plays.
They had great help defense, great one-on-one individual defense down in the post.  But to answer your question, all my life, I've been playing on the perimeter, so it wasn't really anything different for me.
THE MODERATOR: All right.  Thank you.  Take questions for coach.
Q. We talked about it the other day, about staying out of early foul trouble and Rod picks up two fouls in the first three and a half minutes and has to sit out for a long stretch.  How did that affect the offensive flow for you guys?
COACH GANOT: Well, I thought they did a pretty good job on him.  We had Rod, even in the championship game that happened, or Janks.  Obviously, it's a recurring theme that we need to improve on.  We got it again with Rod early today we got it.
But this group jumped out despite that 13-6 lead.  Eventually I think we settled a little bit and then our defense went away.  I thought the biggest thing in the first 10 minutes was our defense was outstanding.  I think -- and that's against a one of the best, an elite offensive team.
So you knew you got to continue to stay focused, because they're going to come.  That's why they're so good.  Offensively, they surround their size with shooting and a dynamic point guard, and we did a good job defending the three.
But I thought we did a good job in our half-court defense, put it that way.  I think what really hurt us was the turnovers and maybe some questionable shots leading to run outs, and us not getting back on defense, that's where they were very effective.  And, obviously, when they did get to the line, they took advantage of it.
So, yeah, I think we played through that before and, obviously, we went back to him earlier than normal, and he did a good job of not getting his third, and we finished the half well.  I thought it was a big play, the way we finished the half.  We wanted one shot, we didn't get it.  They got the last points.
Q. I know, obviously, you wanted to win and continue playing, but maybe a small consolation price is you guys are finally ending this three-week road trip and going home.  What do you think it's going to be like, especially with all the fan support that you have when you finally are able to step foot in the state of Hawaii again?
COACH GANOT: Well, that's perspective.  But, obviously, we wouldn't have minded staying out for two more weeks.  We're perfectly okay with that.  Never been so happy to live in a hotel room and live on flights and bus rides.  I know our guys were good with that.
Obviously, when things settle, and you get back home and around your family, this whole journey, this whole year, even recently, we go win the regular season on the road, and you're celebrating with your great fan base.
Our fan base is ridiculous, it's unbelievable.  It's impressive.  Especially with how far they travel and how loud and vocal they are and how much love you feel from them.  But we had that moment, and we still haven't been back since then.
Then you go to the conference tournament, win the tournament title, and we haven't been back since then.
So, and then you make the NCAA Tournament.  Perspective's everything when you get a chance.  It hurts.  It hurts right now.  You can't really think.  Right now, everything that's going through your mind is these kids and their families and -- but to answer your question, most wins in school history, regular season championship, tournament championship, first NCAA Tournament win.
Through adversity in past years, it's pretty dang impressive.  They should be celebrated, and I know Hawaii and -- that's what I told our guys, the state of Hawaii is very proud of them.  Because at the end of the day their job is to influence people in a positive way, and they certainly did that.  Kids look up to in the community over there as morale's high because of them, because of the effort they put in, and the performance and the manner in which they performed.
Q. You mentioned the first half.  Tempo of the game seemed like it was a possession by possession game.  Is that what you expected and did you think, were you okay with that, or did you want to change it up in the second half?
COACH GANOT: Well, you're always okay when you feel like you're under control, and I thought we were.  We were from the get-go.  And one of the big things against Maryland we talked about was to set the tone early, because they try to put teams away early.  And we weathered the Storm, more than weathered it, we were up 13-6 or 13-7.
And then there was a point where they took a four point lead, so I was pleased with the way we closed the half, other than that last play.  But it was kind of back and forth.  I thought we were under control.  That one stretch really hurt us.  It was the combination of -- and I thought that and you can look, there's some shots we had at the rim, some open shots, but we compounded the problem by not getting back and maybe hanging around for loose balls that weren't there.  It was never a lack of effort.  And it's never been a lack of effort with this group.  And this group's made a huge change in their composure and their mentality to get to the point they got this tonight.  Or over the course of this season.
But in critical moments at this stage, at this level, you get exposed for some lapses.  And just like we capitalize on some lapses, good teams capitalize on those, and we had several in that critical stretch.
THE MODERATOR: All right.  Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT