OKLAHOMA CITY THUNDER MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 23, 2016
Joffrey Lauvergne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  First of all, welcome to Oklahoma City.  Last year you went through a season where you had a good amount of injuries and you had a facial thing, was that a frustrating season for you in terms of your health?  
JOFFREY LAUVERGNE: No, naturally I missed first games with facial injury and with the back I missed like ten games, so it's not that long.   
 Q.  You're coming to a team now that has a lot of guys competing for spots.  Is that something you're willing to do is compete for a spot and you want to battle for a spot?  
JOFFREY LAUVERGNE: Yeah, you know, it's NBA.  There's always a lot of players on every team.  So I guess you have to win your spot.   
 Q.  How is the interaction with the guys been different from when you were in Denver?  
JOFFREY LAUVERGNE: Good, good, I like it.  I like the atmosphere.  Can't wait to start.   
 Q.  Can you just talk about just the amount of big players that the Thunder have, obviously many NBA teams getting away from playing with size.  How do you think that adds to the Thunder's ability to win games and have such ability to play big lineups?  
JOFFREY LAUVERGNE: Yeah, that's true, a lot of NBA teams play small right now.  So Thunder is one of the last team who like to play big.  Actually can be an advantage if you know how to use it.  So we will see.  We will see.   
 Q.  How valuable was it for you last year to get that time, not just power forward, but at center, too.  I think going into last year, you never played a lot of five.  Was that a valuable experience for you?  
JOFFREY LAUVERGNE: Yes, you know, I always play 4- to arrive in NBA, for some reason, in Denver I was playing with five because of injured player and the way the coach like me to play, but I don't have any problem to play the five.  I can play both.  Prefer the four.   
 Q.  Can you give us the correct pronunciation of your last name?  
JOFFREY LAUVERGNE: Lauvergne.   
 Q.  Do you see your 3-point shooting, do you see yourself shooting more threes this season with the Thunder?  
JOFFREY LAUVERGNE: Yes, probably because I'm going to play the four.  Last year I played both, more the five.  I think I'll have much more opportunity to score threes.   
 Q.  Playing in the Olympics, do you take anything away from that that helps your game out coming into this season?  
JOFFREY LAUVERGNE: You know, in the NBA, when you don't make playoffs, summertime is really long.  So to be with national team during the summer, it's something I work to improve, keep playing.  Playing in Olympics was an amazing experience.   
 Q.  Do you want to be a starter?  
JOFFREY LAUVERGNE: Yes.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT