NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: PHILLIES v DODGERS
October 19, 2009
James Loney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. How closely do players follow trade talk in July? And did it ever cross your mind that Cliff Lee came relatively close to being a Dodger in July?  
 JAMES LONEY: Well, during that time of the year, it's always talk about somebody, somebody getting traded. But you always hear about it. It's not too much talked about around the players in the clubhouse. It was more hearing the questions.   
  
  Q. We probably overstate this kind of stuff, but how much more do you feel that this team kind of belongs to guys like you and Matt and Ethier over the span of a couple of years as you've kind of developed and maybe taken on more responsibility?  
 JAMES LONEY: I think when we first got called up, we still felt responsible to do our part. We just want to do the best we can, whenever we're out there, whenever we're called upon. Now it's more of a regular role and guys embrace it, guys have fun with it and guys want to continue to do what they've been doing.   
  
  Q. I know you've got to go with the guys that you've got and support your teammates, but looking back and knowing that Cliff Lee could have been a Dodger, is there any tinge of what might have been?  
 JAMES LONEY: No, I don't really think too much about what might have been. We got a great guy in Padilla. I don't know how many more guys you can actually get at the trade deadline. We got quite a few guys that definitely helped us make us to this point.   
  
  Q. You guys are known for having really good at-bats and being a team that sees a lot of pitches and a team that hits strikes. What have the Phillies been able to do to either limit that, mitigate that, or has it been on the other end; have you been less patient? Are you dissatisfied with your at-bats through your lineup?  
 JAMES LONEY: I think you've got to give a lot of credit to them. They've definitely been having great at-bats, getting into favorable counts for them and not missing their pitch when they're getting it.   
 We had a tough game yesterday, give a lot of credit to Lee, and hopefully we can bounce back today.  
  
  Q. What about your lineup? Your lineup is a lineup that's balanced and known for being potent throughout, and if you look at the top, at Manny, it seems like they've got at least a couple of your numbers.   
 JAMES LONEY: We've been taking good swings. I think throughout the lineup we might have been missing our pitch a few times. But guys are taking good swings, guys are being aggressive, so that's all you can ask for.  
  
  Q. That was sort of going to be my question. You haven't scored a run against their starters in two games. How do you go about changing that, and how do you keep it from playing on your minds?  
 JAMES LONEY: I think just try not to overdo it, trying to do what you can, not really going up there thinking you have to get the big hit, more recognizing the pitch and then reacting, not trying to make something happen. You know, sometimes you get kind of caught up, guys might get kind of caught up in the hype. But overall I don't think we've done that too much. Guys have still been going up there, getting good pitches, just like we did in the last series against the Cardinals.   
  
  Q. You said not trying to do too much. Is that do you think what's kind of happening? And does the potency of their lineup play on your minds, thinking, okay, we know that they're going to score, we might have to play outside of ourselves?  
 JAMES LONEY: No, we don't think like that. We think -- we try to put up as many runs as we can no matter who we're playing. It's not a mentality of we're down 10-0, up 10-0, we can relax or give up. It's never that kind of mentality.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT