RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 22, 2010
Brock MacKenzie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You've played some PGA TOUR events in the past, 2004 U.S. Open in Shinnecock, made the cut at the BC Open. Early yet here, but what's your feeling at this point?   
 BROCK MACKENZIE: Well, it's kind of a bonus for me, first of all, being here. It's been a while since I've played in a PGA TOUR event. I've had kind of some ups and downs the last couple years. So for me I had no expectations coming in. I've been playing pretty well this year, but it's just nice to hit a lot of good golf shots and see a couple putts go in today.  
  
  Q. Can you tell us about your road to get into this particular field?  
 BROCK MACKENZIE: I was one of the, I think, five guys from the Canadian Tour, based on the money list, that got in the Canadian Open which is a great perk for our tour. I think I'm second on the money list, so it was one of those things where I was really looking forward to teeing it up -- seeing a bunch of my old buddies from college and hopefully have a good tournament.  
  
  Q. You talk about obviously going on the Canadian Tour, kind of hone your game and all that. How important is that perk, to be in this event?  
 BROCK MACKENZIE: I think it's huge. I mean obviously if you can put a good week together -- I know I've had one good round so far. If I can put a good week together, then who knows what kind of doors it could open.  
 And my wife's sitting at home, and the cash is always good, too, you know. But it's great just to play in front of the fans. This is kind of what we're trying to build up to on the Canadian Tour and the Nationwide is to get up and play out here every week. So it's been a blast so far.  
  
  Q. Have you allowed yourself to look forward to some of those doors opening or trying to keep it one shot at a time?  
 BROCK MACKENZIE: One shot at a time. I -- my game felt good today. I know that I can sleep wrong tomorrow and it could feel totally different tomorrow, but everything felt pretty good today, so hopefully it's the same way the next three days.  
  
  Q. Particularly seemed like your driver was working well. Is that your key?  
 BROCK MACKENZIE: Absolutely. The rough is very penal out here. Hit my driver great, and it allowed me to reach a couple par-5s in two and hit some iron shots close, so that was definitely the key.  
  
  Q. Keep it going, man.  
 BROCK MACKENZIE: All right, man. Appreciate it.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT