TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN
November 5, 2019
Pablo Larrazabal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Back at Turkey. Back at Maxx Royal. How are you finding it so far?
PABLO LARRAZﾃ。AL: Good. Always good when you are at the end of the season, arrive to The Final Series. I played them all I think. Happy to be here, and happy to be back in The Final Series and I'm happy to be back in Turkey.
Q. Good result last time here it was at Maxx Royal, tied eighth. What memories do you have?
PABLO LARRAZﾃ。AL: It's a golf course -- it's not a tough golf course if you are on the fairway. It's a golf course that if you're on the fairway, you can attack. You have to take care of the par 5s and there is three, four holes that are tough that you have to, that you have to be careful with those. But yeah, it's a great golf course.
As I say, it's tree-lined, but the trees are not into play that much if you are on the fairway. If you are on the right side of the fairway.
So yeah, my memories are fine, and I'm ready to rock and roll and ready for The Final Series.
Q. A week off last week. Are you feeling fresh and what have you done in the week before?
PABLO LARRAZﾃ。AL: I practiced a little bit in the week at the start of the week, and then I travelled to Saudi Arabia to be with the Federation, with the Saudi Golf for a couple days. Then I arrived here Saturday.
So as you say, I'm fresh and I've been here for a couple days already, and I'm ready, yeah.
Q. Currently sitting 60th in The Race to Dubai. How much does that play in getting to next week and The Race to Dubai final?
PABLO LARRAZﾃ。AL: I'm at a point in my career that I don't really mind to be in the Race or in Dubai or not. Obviously I would love to, but my goals are week-to-week and try to do my best this week to try to have a chance on Sunday afternoon.
You know, week-after-week, I try to put myself in contention for Sunday afternoon. To play Dubai, obviously it's great, but at this point in my career, it's not a big deal.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT