ABU DHABI HSBC CHAMPIONSHIP
January 16, 2019
Pablo Larrazabal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Fantastic round of golf today.  I just want to talk about a couple of incidents.  Let's start with 14 when things couldn't have gone much worse for you with that chip out of the rough.  
PABLO LARRAZABAL: Yeah, 14, you know, I'm 4-under par the front nine, playing great golf, and didn't make birdie on 10.  It looked like the run slowed down a little bit.  On 14, we were between clubs.  I hit a perfect 7 just short of the landing area we wanted to, and then I thin it from the bunker over the green, and I up-and-down from bogey there.  It was a great up-and-down.   
But I hit another great shot on 15.  Pin is downwind, it's super tough, but yeah, on 16 we had a good number, 158 metres, and we tried to land it like 148, 150, and it landed perfectly, and the four or five people that were on the green started screaming.  You know, it's been a long time since I had holed an 8-iron.  That's what I said to Raul.  It's been like, I think -- in tournaments, since sell particular man or 2010 I think that I made a hole-in-one on the 7th playing with Miguel.  But since then, I never -- I mean, it's been like nine years since I had a hole-in-one outside of 120 metres.  Good to have it, I take it, and nice 34, birdie-birdie to finish, and very happy with the round.   
 Q.  17, as well, was a great way to follow up 16 with that chip-in from off the green.  That must have made 14 a fairly distant memory?  
PABLO LARRAZABAL: Yeah, I arrived to the tee box probably a little bit too excited and I missed my driver on the right, and I had one of those impossible lies from -- I had 155 metres to the front, and I had an impossible lie, and I took my 5-wood from the rough.  I put it just over the green, I chip it in, two hole-outs in a row.  You don't do that too often.  I think I did it like six years ago in Wentworth, I holed three in four holes, three chip-ins in four holes.   
But you know, it's a great way to finish, a nice up-and-down for birdie on the last, and happy days.  But there's a lot of golf to be played.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT