JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 28, 2011
Pablo Larrazabal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   PABLO LARRAZÁBAL: Yesterday I missed like seven, eight putts under seven feet, and if you want to win a tournament, you cannot do that. And missed another one in the second hole of the playoff. But that's all, putting badly, can you not win golf tournaments?  
  
  Q. You gave yourself so many chances?  
 PABLO LARRAZÁBAL: Yeah, that's the good point. If you play good, you're going to win when it's your week. This week it wasn't my week. We fight to be in a playoff. We fight a lot to be in a playoff, and I'm very happy to be in that playoff. But my putting wasn't really to win.   
  
  Q. What were your thoughts first thing this morning, presumably even though there were two guys clear of the field, it was likely to be congested, wasn't it?  
 PABLO LARRAZÁBAL: I played yesterday, if my putter was hot, I could win without any playoff, and that's what I tried. My game wasn't there. I didn't hit the ball good the front nine. But I holed some putts and we fight, Johnny and I, a lot to be in a playoff. Sometimes you win, sometimes you lose.   
 But not happy with my short game this week.  
  
  Q. Talk me through the playoff in itself, because I know last time, you were in a playoff everything worked very nicely for you?  
 PABLO LARRAZÁBAL: Yeah, it was a match-play. I can take care of one guy. I cannot take care of four. This wasn't a normal playoff. It was a five-guy playoff, and you cannot, you know -- if you make bogey on a par 5, you're going to go home.   
  
  Q. You ran it so close there, as well.   
 PABLO LARRAZÁBAL: It was close. I saw my second shot. My third shot was a lot better. It was a little bit low. But didn't take the wind, so it was long. So you know, I'm very glad the way I fight today. And you know, unlucky.  
  
  Q. Presumably when you reflect, you take nothing much more than positives from this, because it's a good week?  
 PABLO LARRAZÁBAL: You never are going to be angry making second, so if I make all the way seconds here to the end of the season, I will be No. 1 in the world. So, I take it.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT