JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 26, 2011
Pablo Larrazabal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. A round with six birdies and two bogeys, how do you feel about that one?  
 PABLO LARRAZÁBAL: I feel a little bit disappointed. It could be a lot better. I played great. Yesterday the things that were not as well as I wanted to, the back nine, I hit the ball very poorly, and today I hit the ball very good. I missed two shots and cost me two bogeys.   
 You know, I'm hitting driver better by putting the ball on the fairway, that is in this kind of golf course, that's 70 percent of the work. Very confident.   
  
  Q. You had your second win on The European Tour at the BMW International this year and you're 94 in the world, what's it going to take to push you into the Top-50 and beyond?  
 PABLO LARRAZÁBAL: Just work, it's all about work. The top 100 in the world work very hard and I need to -- if I want to be better than them, I need to work harder than them. So that's all it takes, hard work, and a lot of patience.  
  
  Q. Any particular aspect of your game that you feel you need to improve?   
 PABLO LARRAZÁBAL: I need to improve a lot of things. First of all, my golf swing. My golf swing is not as good as the big names in the world. So first on my swing and I'm working on the mental aspect of the game and it's been a lot better.   
 Physically, I need to be better, as well. So I'm working on all of that, and I think I'm doing fine. My golf swing is a lot better than last year and mental game is 600 per cent better than last year, and physically I'm better than last year. So, you know, I'll keep working on all of the aspects of the game, and we'll see.   
  
  Q. If you can talk us through an adventurous kind of round out there, because everything seemed to happen.   
 PABLO LARRAZÁBAL: I played good golf today. I hit the ball quite good. I'm leaving the golf course with 4-under par, but I feel like I played a lot better than 4-under par.   
 So you know, this golf course, you're going to have a lot of birdie chances but the greens are not pure. So in the back nine, you know, I hit a great putt and that didn't go in, so, you know, I had the patience to finish 4-under par.  
  
  Q. Looked like you were determined to entertain us out there today, you were flirting with out-of-bounds at one stage and some lovely shots.   
 PABLO LARRAZÁBAL: You know, I hit two bad shots, my second shot on the first that I tried to hit a three-quarter shot and I blocked that into the bunker and made bogey there. And then the driver on the fifth, it's not my favourite hole out there, and I really want to put the ball in the fairway. And I did a crap tee shot to the left and cost me the second bogey.   
 But, you know, the important thing is that I'm making birdies. Golf tournaments, you win the golf tournament making birdies, and so I'm making birdies and that's the most important thing.  
  
  Q. The bogeys are annoying but there always seem to be birdies in your game anyway.   
 PABLO LARRAZÁBAL: Yeah, if you try to play your game and if you're making birdies and you try to don't make too many mistakes, you're going to shoot under par. Par.  
  
  Q. Do you like the company you were keeping for these two days?   
 PABLO LARRAZÁBAL: I played both tournaments here in Scotland, I played with Edoardo, defending both titles. It's a pleasure to play with Ryder Cup players and top guys of this game.   
 Playing with Thomas it's always a pleasure. He played great. He's striking the ball very, very good. And Edoardo is struggling a little bit. Yesterday he struggled but today he played a lot better. He can play low in this round. He knows how to play low in this round and he's only seven shots behind.   
  
  Q. I know you're twice a champion already out here on the Tour but do you find yourself measuring your game against the likes of Thomas?  
 PABLO LARRAZÁBAL: You know, right now, I'm playing great and my level is up there. I know that I can fight any golf tournament around the world I play. We'll see. I'm one behind Thomas. We'll see what Mark can do this afternoon. The greens are not good in the afternoon. So, we'll see.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT