BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 25, 2011
Pablo Larrazabal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Fair to say that that 69 was the worst could you have scored today? 
 PABLO LARRAZÁBAL: You're completely right, since the first hole all day, it's been almost all the season like not as good as today, the long game, but the same way. I mean, I'm 12-under par total and I feel like I'm 3-over par, and I'm two behind the leader. 
 Seems like a little bit weird, but my long game has been this week as good as in France and as at the World Cup playing with Miguel and as good as my best performance in my life.

 Q. Obviously not finding the greens, not getting the ball in the hole, because you gave yourself, eight or nine chances that I saw, that you didn't hole. Was it how you were reading them or speed or what?
 PABLO LARRAZÁBAL: The only two putts I made today, maybe I made three, but two of them was because John, my caddie, read them. 
 I don't know, I feel I'm striking very good the putts. On the putting green I'm stroking great the putt. But it's something -- I don't know. I'm going to check out now to the putting green straight way and we'll see. 

 Q. And your love/hate relationship with the 16th, what happened today? That wasn't your best shot, wasn't it. 
 PABLO LARRAZÁBAL: No. I was in between driver and 3-wood, and I hit a poor 3-wood. But parring that hole -- it's a birdie hole, but par is a great score. 

 Q. Your second down 18, did that put you too close to the flag?
 PABLO LARRAZÁBAL: No. That's exactly how I wanted to hit. I wanted to hit just short and I know the greens are soft enough to hit a 35-metre pitch and stop it straightaway. Just I hit three poor shots today and one of them was the third on 18. 

 Q. So it's a case of just a little work on the green and then you'll be pleased to take it on tomorrow?
 PABLO LARRAZÁBAL: If I play the same way as today, and as these days, the long game and I improve my putting a little bit, I will have great chances to win. 

 Q. Very solid 69 today, if we look at your long game, it looks very much that it should have been lower than that?
 PABLO LARRAZÁBAL: Should be. I'm not going to say -- I'm not going to be very greedy, but I can be five shots better than that, than a 69. I played my best. Yesterday was unbelievable, maybe the second best round of all season, the long game. So I'm very pleased. I couldn't drop any putts. Only when John, my caddie, read those greens on 16 and 17, and I'm very pleased to finish with 69.

 Q. We know you can play low on this course, you've done it in the past, what do you expect tomorrow? 
 PABLO LARRAZÁBAL: You know, tomorrow will be another day. I think my job today, I'm going to go to putt now. But I don't care about tomorrow. I care about working now, be better on the greens now, and work for tomorrow. But tomorrow will be another day. And I know if I play as good as I've been playing these days, and I putt as well as in Wales, I will win the tournament. So I know that, and I'm looking forward for tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT