ABU DHABI HSBC CHAMPIONSHIP
January 20, 2017
Pablo Larrazabal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How pleased are you?
PABLO LARRAZÁBAL: Very pleased.  After a winter that I didn't take any holidays, I've been working very hard; come here and play as good as I did, very proud.
Q. You've won on this course before.  When you're going around, do you sort of have flashbacks to what you did that was really good the year that you won?
PABLO LARRAZÁBAL: Yeah, as you said, I played very good three years ago.  And three years ago, I made a 7-under par on the par 3s on the first two days, and I did the same thing the last couple rounds.  7-under par on the par 3s, it's something special.
But at the same time, last year, like on No. 2, I had the same putt as I miss last year, and I miss it again.  So you know, you're learning about this golf course but that learning experience goes against you sometimes.
Q. You're very aware, because we looked at your par 3 stats over the first two days, and you're right, 15 yesterday was the only one you didn't make a 2.  So your iron play must be really good.
PABLO LARRAZÁBAL: I am.  My driver and my 3-wood are very good, as well.  I'm in form.  The only rusty part of my game is my chipping, believe it or not.
Q. Don't believe that.
PABLO LARRAZÁBAL: Yeah, it is.  You know, after I'm going to go to the chipping green to see if I remember how to do it, and I will be in form for the weekend.
Q. Any new stuff in the bag for 2017?
PABLO LARRAZÁBAL: Obviously the woods, the driver, the big driver is something very special.  To carry eight metres longer and 15 metres longer off the tee, it helps.  It helps a lot.
Q. What's a Pablo average carry?
PABLO LARRAZÁBAL: 262 metres now.  Before, I couldn't carry 2525 and these days with this epic driver, it's something very special.
Q. Solid round of golf to put you right in contention again.  Your thoughts?
PABLO LARRAZÁBAL: I've been playing very solid.  Very happy with my game.  My iron play has been superb.  I'm holing a few putts, so very happy.  The only thing I'm being a little bit rusty with is my short game.  I think out of six times, three in par 5s, between yesterday and today, and three missed greens, I only up-and-downed once.
But my irons have been superb.  My driving and my 3-wood has been great.  So looking forward for the weekend.
Q. Are you feeling the same vibes as three years ago?
PABLO LARRAZÁBAL: Yes.  Yes, the same kind of feelings.  I've been working very hard over the winter, and we were looking forward to this week and we're doing exactly the things we planned.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT