TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN
November 3, 2016
Pablo Larrazabal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  A bogey to finish but judging by your reaction, one you're quite pleased with.  67, how do you feel about that round?  
PABLO LARRAZÁBAL: Probably one of the lowest in a long time.  I played very good from tee-to-green.  I started with three birdies, and it's easier but not easy when you start with three birdies because your expectations are very high.   
But I played very good.  I made a bogey on 16 but then birdied 17 and 18.  That helped me to keep it going.  At the end, I didn't make birdie on the par 5, what, seventh.  5, I had a good one for birdie and 7, mistake my second shot.  Then 8 and 9, I had good opportunities.   
10 is one of the toughest holes of the year, so I pulled my tee shot into the water.  It's one of those that after hitting it into the water, you think that I had to push it into the woods and then make par from there.  But very pleased, very pleased.   
 Q.  And something that's changed, as well, the putter, new putter this week.  Is that an area of the game you feel hasn't allowed you to push on and get a win this year?  
PABLO LARRAZÁBAL: I played very, very good the second half of the season.  Tee-to-green, I never played as good as I've been playing the last two, three months and couldn't hold enough putts in the last.  So I thought to give it one more chance in Portugal and it didn't happen.   
I went home and I looked at the collection and I choose the best-looking one.   
 Q.  58th in The Race to Dubai and Top 60 go all the way through to the World Championship.  Is that something that's on your mind, and do you feel your game is moving in the right direction; that you feel you can make a bit of a charge here in The Final Series?  
PABLO LARRAZÁBAL: Yeah, to be in The Race to Dubai, I've been nine years around and I played five Race to Dubais and one Volvo Masters.  So you know, I've been pleased with my career so far.  Not as good as yours, but I'm very pleased.   
But I want to win golf tournaments.  I'm not thinking about the future.  I come here every week to enjoy and to have fun competing and to win golf tournaments.  The day I'm not having fun around here, you guys know that I will retire, so I will be enjoying.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT