NBA FINALS: LAKERS VS. HEAT
September 29, 2020
Tyler Herro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Tyler, what's the secret sauce to being so good at hitting shots with the shot clock expiring and the clock getting to zero?  How did you train yourself to be so good at that?
TYLER HERRO:   Just practicing over and over, practicing any shot, preparing for any moment.  Whenever that moment comes or the opportunity comes, just being ready for it and to capitalize.  Just knocking down shots with confidence.
Q. You never had like a clock or anything?  Did you ever go through drills to perfect that?  Because obviously you can shoot at any time, but I'm talking about specifically with that pressure, knowing the shot clock is expiring, et cetera.
TYLER HERRO:   No, I mean, I think just being aware of the shot clock and knowing that it's winding down, five, four, three, two, and once you see that, just having to make a play right away out of it.  Never really used a timer or anything like that.
Q. You talked last week about being doubted at times in the early stages of your career.  Does lasting to 13 in the draft, does that fuel you at all?  Do you ever think about that?  And if not that, what does give you a chip on your shoulder, which you'll remind yourself of sometimes as motivation?
TYLER HERRO:   Definitely.  I think being drafted 13 definitely motivates me, but I love where I was drafted.  I mean, I love the opportunity I was drafted into, the situation. But the 12 guys ahead of me definitely are in the back of my head all the time, and I know every last one that was drafted ahead of me.  And I mean, it definitely does fuel me.
But I think just with our team, we have a bunch of guys like that, who were doubted, who were looked over, and I think that's the chip on our shoulder that we have.
Q. What would be the keys to win the first game of the Finals?
TYLER HERRO:   Keys to the first game?  Just coming out with a lot of focus and energy, sticking to our game plan.  Obviously, they're very talented.  They have two of the best players in the world on that side.  We're going to have our hands full for sure.  We respect them.  We know how talented they are.  But we definitely feel like we have the right pieces to win Game 1, and that's all we're worried about right now is Game 1.
As long as we keep Game 1 the main focus, we'll go game by game. But Game 1 is our main focus right now.
Q. Tyler, I've seen on social media Jimmy making fun of you and your 37-point night.  Dwyane Wade said that you definitely have got a black friend.  So, I just want to know how can you describe your relationship with them?
TYLER HERRO:   My relationship with Jimmy is what it is, what you guys see.  I mean, he's like a big brother to me.  Ever since I've been drafted, he always feeds life into me, gives me confidence, allows me to be myself on the court and off the court.  We really have a good blend with each other.
He's just a leader.  He's going to lead me and lead the rest of the team to where we want to go.
Q. A lot of Kentucky guys in the NBA Finals; how much credit do you give to someone like Kenny Payne who's now in the NBA?  And what did you think about him getting an NBA job, going to the next level?
TYLER HERRO:   Yeah, I think that's tremendous for him and his career coaching.  KP was like a father figure to me as far as just mentoring me when I was at Kentucky, and we still talk to this day, almost every day.  He's a great leader in his own way, as well.  Been around a lot of tremendous players, talented players who went to Kentucky who are obviously in the league now, but he's what he is.
He's going to get on you hard.  He's a tough coach, and he's going to coach you.  He's going to try to bring the best out of you.  I'm really happy for him and happy that he got that job.
Q. You've been clutch for the Heat in your first year. Is there almost a pressure that you feel?  Is it something you've carried since high school and college, and how are you feeling now for the NBA Finals?
TYLER HERRO:   As far as the clutch shots, I think just having the ball in my hands where my teammates have come to just trust me with it, they know I'm going to be confident with it, and I don't feel the pressure.  I don't think there is much pressure.  At the end of the day we're competing in this game of basketball.  That's my mindset, my mentality.
As far as the Finals goes, I'm just excited to be here, blessed.  Can't wait to get started tomorrow.  It's going to be a fun series.  It's going to be tough, but we're excited to get started tomorrow.
Q. I'm curious, the guys that came into the league with Michael Jordan and Kobe, they always say the first time they played against them, they were in their head.  Does LeBron have that effect on young guys, and is it hard to get it out of your mind?
TYLER HERRO:   Yeah.  I've obviously looked up to him, LeBron James, one of the best players to ever play.  But at the same time, it's my third time playing him, so at this point I'm not looking up to anybody.  Obviously, he's what he is.  He's a tremendous player.  But at the end of the day we're competing to win the championship, and I think that's the biggest thing.  When we step in between the lines, it's time to compete and time to win, so that's all I'm worried about.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT