U.S. OPEN
September 8, 2016
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. WAWRINKA/J. Del Potro
7-6, 4-6, 6-3, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. That moment at the end when everyone was singing before the last game, what were you feeling?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, something difficult to describe with words.  I mean, I can lose the match, but I will never forget this.  You know, it's bigger than win any match.
I'm so proud to get that from the crowd, because I have been doing a big effort to play tennis again.  They made me so happy tonight, and I don't mind the score.
Q. This loss obviously is tough, but you have had a great summer.  I imagine your confidence must be much bigger than it's been in the last couple of years.  Where do you feel mentally and physically right now with your tennis?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, I think my tennis is starting to respond as I want, but physically I'm still down.  You know, I'm not in the same level that these guys.  I need to just to stay healthy and wait for the preseason to get 100% for next year.
I'm already top 100, so that's good.  Never will ask for wildcard anymore.  (Smiling.)
And everything here is positive for me.  I'm so glad for that.
Q. You're much taller than guys like Wawrinka and Djokovic, Murray.  You mention you feel like physically you're not where they are yet.  You need to work on it.  What sort of things do you need to do differently because of your height in terms of training?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, I'm starting to play tennis again after a long, long time.  Like two months ago I was losing first round, second round, 80 players or different rankings.
And now I'm fighting at the same level as the top guys, and I already beat Djokovic, Rafa.  I played against Murray in a great match.  Wawrinka is the No. 3 player in the world and I'm there.  That's means something good to me.
But I need to keep working.  I need to get my physical back as soon I can, and then I will have a chance to play in the same conditions.
Q. How did you feel physically this match, especially as it got later into the match?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, I think he was smarter than me in the end.  In the end he started to play his backhands down the lines; starting to play more slices.  He made me run too much.  I got exhausted after the third set.
I think that was the key, because at the beginning of the match was really, really tight for both, and I couldn't win the first two sets.  But he took the chances and he made a good match.
Q. How full a schedule do you think you'll be able to play in the fall?  You played on and off this year.  Just wondering how your health feels and ranking, if you will try to play a full schedule or just still very careful?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, I didn't expect to play too many matches here, and now I will see where I'm going to play.  I would like to be in Asia and then in the indoor tournament.
But now I don't have the pression for rankings.  I just want to stay healthy and keep working to get my physic back, and I will see.  Now, after here, I have Davis Cup.  I will try to recover myself to be 100% in Glasgow.
Q. What are your plans travel-wise?  Like when are you going to travel for Davis Cup and how are you feeling about that tie?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I don't know.  (Smiling.)  I just finished my match.  I don't have too much time to come back home, but I will see maybe tomorrow during the breakfast.
Q. How are you feeling about the matchup?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: About the match?
Q. Davis Cup.
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: It's gonna be interesting, I think.  All the British guys are playing great.  They made so good tournament here and they are the favorites to win.
But Davis Cup everything can happen.  So we will be there.
Q. (Question regarding Davis Cup.)
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: But I'm not ready to play anymore now.  I'm so tired.  (Smiling.)  But then you should ask Davis Cup captain.
Q. I'm asking you.
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: No, I'm so tired to answer that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT