AEGON CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 7, 2011
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. DEL POTRO/D. Istomin
  6-4, 6-2 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Going over your recent medical history, were you concerned when you had to get the trainer out today when you slipped?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: No, it was for check nothing dangerous. The trainer say, You're okay. You can still play. So he made a bandage, and I could finish the match.   
 I play really well. Since 2009 was my last match on grass court, so it's a good first round for me.  
  
  Q. How did it feel? Was it funny to be back on grass after such a long time?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yeah. For the South American players, it's difficult play on grass, but I want to learn on this surface. I want to improve my game, my serve, my volley.   
 I know the best player of the history win on grass court, so I will try to win matches.  
  
  Q. The movements, is that the most important thing, just making sure your feet are in the right place and getting a sense of feel for the grass?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yes, the movements, the serve, and all the game is very important. You have only two or three chance for set, and if you don't take the opportunity, you can lose with every player, so you need to be focused all the time, all the match, and trying to find the chance.  
  
  Q. I noticed you were being interviewed by David Frost earlier. What was that about?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Sorry?   
  
  Q. You were being interviewed earlier by David Frost. I just wondered what that was about.   
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, it was nice. I have respect for him. We talk about tennis and the life and was really fun.  
  
  Q. Where do you actually see your level at the moment compared to your best? Do you feel like you're nearly there or just a little bit further to go?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I don't know. I'm trying to improve my game. I want to serve much better than this moment.   
 I'm healthy, so it's important for my future. My first goal for this year, it's playing, play healthy, playing many tournaments, trying to recover my game and trying to do a nice comeback.  
  
  Q. When you saw the French Open last week, semifinals, top 4 in the world, that's the kind of company you must feel like you must still belong in. Having won the US Open in 2009, you must be desperate to be back with those guys.   
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yes. I lost against Djokovic, and if you don't have a good ranking, you can play with them in the first rounds.   
 I want to have a good ranking for the US Open. I don't have time for Wimbledon, but the US Open is my tournament. I really like playing New York, so I want to be with better ranking for trying to don't play with the best player in the first rounds.  
  
  Q. Do you feel like you might be back to somewhere near your best by New York?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I hope so. I'm improving. I have already won two tournaments this year, and it's amazing. You know, I'm playing really well, but I need to -- I need time to still improving.   
 I feel difference at the moment with the top players, and I want to be as soon as possible with that level.  
  
  Q. You have had some good results on hard and clay this year. Do you feel for the next few weeks a little less pressure and expectation because it's grass?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yeah. I'm not a specialist on grass, but I'm here since Monday trying to improve my game here, and I will play this tournament and an exhibition and then hope be ready for Wimbledon.   
 It's important this tournament for my preparation. I want to improve my game, my serve, my volley. This is the chance for do that.   
  
  Q. For a player of your size, is this one of the most difficult clubs to walk around?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yeah, I think so. (Laughter.)  
  
  Q. Because there are a lot of staircases that go like that (gesturing with hands) and very low.   
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yeah.  
  
  Q. Do you find sometimes...   
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I ask him, Where is the restaurant, the locker rooms, everything.   
  
  Q. Do you have any goals in terms of where would you like to get to in Wimbledon in terms of rounds?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: No, being in Wimbledon one more time will be fantastic for me as far as the new stadium, playing in Wimbledon. It's really nice for all the players, and I will enjoy that.  
  
  Q. You're playing doubles later with Stepanek. Is there any reason why you're playing with him and not Nalbandian?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: No. We talk with Stepanek in Madrid, I think. I suppose to play with Fish first and he pulled out, and we talk with Stepanek and we got him so we are playing.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT