SONY ERICSSON OPEN
March 29, 2011
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. FISH/J. Del Potro
  7-5, 7-6 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.  
  
  Q. How do you feel after these two Masters Series?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, it's difficult to say something now because I just lost a very, very tough match. But maybe in two or three days I can say or I can think which level do I am at this moment and what I expect for the future.  
  
  Q. Now you will stop three weeks to prepare the clay court season in Europe. Why did you choose to begin in Estoril and not playing Monte-Carlo or Barcelona?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, that is the idea, but I don't know if I will play. I would love to play in Estoril. It's a very nice tournament.  
 But after here, I will see the doctor, and then we will take a decision if I can still play or I need to stop. I want to play there. I not playing clay court since 2009, so it's a long time. I want to improve my game in that surface, and it's a good tournament.  
  
  Q. You hope to do special treatment for wrist or everything is okay?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I don't know. I will see my doctor, and he will see what's going on. Today I feel little bad because it was very humid. I spoke with him this morning, and he say, Okay, take care. Could be dangerous if you play and you feel something wrong.  
 But this tournament I'm really, I'm really enjoying the crowd, everything. That's why I played today.  
  
  Q. Do you feel as if in the atmosphere today and playing as well as you played you really are in a sense of being back in the big time, so to speak?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yes, was nice. It was nice tournament for me, basically because I really miss the crowd, the fans. Here I be almost like Argentina, and many people come to see the tournament. They help me for fight every match, and hopefully in the future gonna be the same.  
 Mardy, after the match, say, The people still loving you. So good luck for him, and I'm very glad for him for his win today.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT