SONY ERICSSON OPEN
March 23, 2011
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. DEL POTRO/R. Mello
  6-4, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Your serve seemed to be working very well today as far as speed and accuracy. Is that correct? If so, what does that mean for your wrist?
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yeah, I think so. I serve really well today, especially the important moments.
 The 5-4 in second set I close the match with my serve. I did great serves, and I'm still working on that, you know. It's very important for my game and for this kind of surface, too.

 Q. Where is your game right now? I mean, Delray Beach, great Indian Wells. Where is your game right now, you think?
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I'm still improving match by match. I am playing a lot of matches in San Jose. I feel tired, but of course I'm really enjoying this present, being in semifinal last week and have another chance in this tournament to play many matches against good player. 
 It's a good signal for my future, for my comeback, and for recovering my game.

 Q. Do you have to beat the top 10 players to feel that your comeback is on track or you're back to where you need to be? 
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: No, I don't think so. I'm improving faster than what I'm thinking or than what I expected. I think I have a difference between me and Rafa or top 10 players at this moment, but is getting closer. 
 In the future I'm working for do that, and I need time to train hard, to play many times against them and lose against them, trying to think in the future and be positive. 
 Maybe in the second part of the year, I will be ready for fight against them.

 Q. How is your fitness level now? How do you feel physically?
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I feel tired, but I'm really glad with my success between San Jose and today, and I have more energy to stay alive in this tournament. I want to win more matches. 
 I have a very tough match in second round against Kohlschreiber, but I will try. I really like play here in Miami. Many South American people come to see the tournament, so we feel really well, and hopefully will be better in the next match. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT