BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 19, 2011
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. NADAL/J. Del Potro
  6-4, 6-4 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. What did he do to change things at 4-1? What suddenly happened?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I don't know. He play really well, and I don't -- I had my chance basically in the first set. He improve his game and I feel little confuse with my serve, he broke me back again, and then it's very difficult to make a winner against Rafa.   
 So I think he played much better than me today, and that's it.   
  
  Q. Did you say you're confused with your serve? Did I understand you right?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yes.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about that?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yeah, well, against Rafa, Federer, or these players, you have to serve every time very good, and today I had a low first serves, and I serve slowly, too. He takes his opportunities to broke me.   
 I think is not much to say. He play better in every moment of the match. He's a good winner.  
  
  Q. Can you tell us about the conditions out there? Because it's obviously a lot colder than it was during the week, especially at the very beginning. It felt like the ball was not going as fast as it normally goes. Did you feel the same?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yeah. I feel good here. I like play here in Indian Wells, and the courts are nice. For me, the ball is going fast. I feel really comfortable with my game here.   
 Today was a little windy, but it's not a problem for us.  
  
  Q. When you got up 4-1, were you feeling, I'm better, this is good, or do you ever feel that way against a guy like Rafa?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Of course in the beginning I felt really good, but that's mean nothing. You know, against Rafa, you have to play in the beginning until the last point very nice tennis. And if you don't take your opportunities, you will lose.  
 He broke me twice: one in the first, one in the second set, and that's it. The match is over.  
  
  Q. And in the second set break, he made a backhand passing shot. How many people would get to that ball?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Not many. (Smiling.) Not many.  
 But for him I think it's normal, made that shot. So I made my best forehand, but he made a better passing shot and he broke me.   
 I say, Good play. That's it.  
  
  Q. Can you assess where your level is right now after you're at the end of the tournament? You played some nice matches throughout.   
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I don't know. I answered this question many times, and you should tell me what is my level, no? I don't know.  
  
  Q. Your forehand is so punishing. I keep waiting for you to go to the net more, but obviously you don't. Those passing shots are too good. But when I see your forehand, in my 50 years of being around pro tennis, I haven't seen forehands like that. It seems like you'd be punishing them more, but I must be wrong.   
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I'm working on that. I always work with my serve on my forehand, and maybe I should come more to the net. But today I came three or four times, and Rafa came incredible passing shots. So nothing to do.   
 But maybe in the future, I can work that. Thank you.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT