BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 17, 2011
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: This will be Juan Martin's first semifinal here in Indian Wells, also his fourth ATP World Tour semifinal.   
 We will open it up for questions now.   
  
  Q. That must sound pretty good, mustn't it, after all the troubles you have had? Fourth consecutive semifinal. That's pretty good.   
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yes, of course I'm -- well, I don't have match today. I'm sorry I for Robredo. I wish faster recovery.   
 But, you know, I am glad to be semifinals. Maybe I could play with Nadal again. We make very good matches before, so I have two days to be better, in good form, and hopefully I can play 100%.  
  
  Q. How exciting is it to be in the kind of big tournament in the mix with Rafa and Roger and Novak again?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yeah, we feel again that sensations, you know, be in the top four in this tournament. And share the lockers with Nadal, Federer, and Djokovic and many other players, it's really nice.   
 When I have the chance to go to the final on Saturday I will try to play a nice match, and then I will see if I can win.  
  
  Q. You had such a tough last year, but before that, you had some nice memories. Can you just recall and talk about your match against Rafa at the US Open?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: It was two years ago, and I think he's playing better today. I'm not same player like two years ago, but I improve my game since two months ago.   
 I play many times with Rafa, so I know I have to be 100% if I want to beat him. But I know also it's a nice match for the crowd, because the people love to see Nadal, and maybe many people expect or say I can beat him.   
 Hopefully be ready for fight and I will try to win.  
  
  Q. So looking back, after all you've been through, take us back to that US Open. Can you believe that you beat Nadal and Federer back to back and the way that you beat them?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: No. No. What's amazing I beat No. 2 and No. 1 in two days. My first semifinal in Grand Slam was really a dream. Maybe can repeat here.   
 But, you know, is very tough. They just told me Robredo retired, so I'm not thinking on my semifinals here yet.   
 I have two days to recover my physically, my wrist too, and I will try to be ready to fight.  
  
  Q. In 2009 you played Nadal here I think in the quarterfinal and lost in straight sets. Before that you played Roger in Australia and lost in straight sets. But then by the summer you were challenging and winning in the US Open, and then you got to the final, World Tour Finals. What changed between the early part of 2009 and the later part of 2009 that put you into the mix with the top players in the world?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, I believe much in my serve, in my game, and my weapons. Maybe I feel little difference at this moment against -- between me and the top 10 players here, because I already play against Roddick, against Verdasco, and I feel little difference.   
 So maybe against Rafa I can feel the same. But, you know, it's a long road. If I lose, I will take a good things to improve in the future. That's the main and important thing if I lose.   
 Even if I win, I know it's a long road to be in the top again. Of course I would like to win, but I will see in the future.  
  
  Q. There are a lot of players who are very consistent who try to play in the style of Rafa, but what makes him so difficult?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, he's the No. 1 and he has everything. He can win on any surface, and he's lefty, so he has different view of the court, different shots, and maybe that's help to him.  
 But many players can beat him also. Also, if I'm ready, if I'm in good form, I can try to beat him. But it's in a special match against No. 1, No. 2. I think will be a beautiful match on Saturday to watch.  
  
  Q. Just in case you do find yourself playing Ivo Karlovic, that's a different story altogether, isn't it? Different match completely?   
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yeah, I think so. I should be ready for his serves, and I'll try to be focus with my serve, too. Maybe he has only -- he give to me only one or two break points during the match, and if you don't take it, you lose.  
 But I think Rafa will win.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT