BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 16, 2011
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. DEL POTRO/P. Kohlschreiber
  7-6, 7-6

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Pretty impressive win. How do you come back from 1-to 6 in the tiebreak in the second set?
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, I think is not normal, come back 6-1 down on tiebreaks, but I got lucky and I take my opportunities, especially on my third match point with my serve. I say, try to make an ace; I did. 
 Now I'm glad to go through to take the chance to play quarterfinals here in this Masters. Is good for my future, too.

 Q. You called the doctor in the middle of the first set. What was the problem?
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, I feel with my lower energy, and it was really hot and I play many, many matches, so I getting tired. 
 But the crowd people tell me to fight all the match, and that's what I did. I really enjoyed my game today, and I'm glad to go through.

 Q. In San Jose you told me you needed like 20 matches to see where you were. You're getting closer and closer to that number. How do you feel now?
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I need 20 more matches (Smiling.)
No, I think I improve since San Jose to here. I am playing better than two months ago. I know it's a long road, I told you a month before, but I'm still improving my serve, my forehand. 
 And also my physical, it's very tough play every day against these kind of players, and I need time to feel 100% again.

 Q. Do you feel like your instinct in matches is coming naturally, or you're still thinking too much?
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yeah, sometimes. Sometimes, yeah. When you feel confident it's pretty easier. In important moments you have confidence to play good points, maybe to close the match. 
 And today what I think was -- when I had the chance to close the match with my serve, I make an ace. So because I'm winning matches, I have confidence to do it, and that's what I need for the next tournament.

 Q. How far off are you from where you want to be?
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I heard many times that question. (Smiling.)
I don't know. I'm really glad with my moment, with my present. I'm playing better match by match, and I don't know if I can play better than today or not. I just want to work hard. I need time to do it. I'm very patient. 
 Franco still believe in my game and my serve. We know the road to win to be in the top again, but it's really tough.

 Q. When I was training coaches in Argentina years ago, they didn't teach the forehand the way you hit it. Who taught you that forehand?
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I learned when I was young. I don't know. 
 But when I practice, you can see 80% of my practice is my forehand. And I really use that shot in all the matches. That's helped me to win the matches, especially if you're playing hard courts or indoors courts.
 I think the Argentinian players and South American players prefer clay courts. So you can play similar shots with the forehand and backhand, and that's work, too.

 Q. Did you talk about Robredo? Did someone ask about Robredo?
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, I know him. He's playing really well. He beat easy Querrey today. Hopefully be better than today because I feel tired, but I will fight, you know. 
 I'm really glad to play quarterfinals since many times. I will try to win.

 Q. What were you thinking in the tiebreak? You were down 6-1 or 6-2. 
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: 6-1.

 Q. What's going through your mind in that moment?
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, I say, Come on, Philipp, close it. Play fast and play the third one. (Laughter.) 
 But doesn't happen. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT