BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 12, 2011
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. DEL POTRO/I. Ljubicic
  5-7, 6-4, 6-2 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. How does it feel to get past that round? Everybody's been talking about your comeback. Do you feel like that was the first round of your comeback?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I feel bad I beat the last champion, and of course a nice victory for my comeback. I play good tennis. I was focus all the match on trying to take my opportunities. I think I play better than him, and that's was the key of the match.  
  
  Q. What happened that first set?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, it was so close. He made good shots in 6-5, and I miss. I think I missed two forehand misses, and then he close the set. And when you play against good servers, you should be all the time very focused basically on your serves.   
 If you have a bad moment, they take the chance to break, and that's what happen in first set.  
  
  Q. Watching you today, I noticed you look very confident in your forehand. I watched you a few weeks ago, and didn't look as good. You seem to be heading in the right direction. Seems like you're really hitting the ball strong.   
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yes, I'm improved since San Jose and Memphis, and I am working on my serve and on my forehand. That's my game.   
 And today, today works perfect, I think. Because if you don't play good tennis, you can't beat top 10 or top 20 players. I hopefully play better next round. I don't know which is my next opponent, but it will be tough for sure.  
  
  Q. Do you feel like you're playing almost at the US Open level?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I don't know. I don't remember my level in 2009, but I'm working. I'm trying to play better day by day, and I'm really enjoying this present.  
  
  Q. How far do you think you've come since you've started in Sydney this year?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, I think I'm playing much better. I improve my forehand, my serve, my physical, everything. It's easier when you win a match. You can improve very fast if you still play and still winning.   
 So I think that's important for be ready very soon, especially when I play against top 10 players.  
  
  Q. Was there a level of frustration while you were recovering, or has it been pretty much an upward...   
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I'm very calm with my level. I know that it's a long road to be in the top again, but I'm working. I have the game. If I'm healthy.   
 So I just want to -- I need time to improve again, to work hard. Maybe in couple of months, maybe next year, I will be ready for play against all of the players.  
  
  Q. So you've been pretty patient?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yes.   
  
  Q. How tired were you in Delray Beach? How long did it take you to get over that? You looked really...   
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yes, I was tired, but I was happy, too. And playing here in Indian Wells and Miami, it's very special. It's my first Masters Series since two years, so I feel little difference.   
 I'm really enjoying this tournament. I know all my opponents will be very tough. I just want to still improving my game, see what can I do in my next match, and then I will see.  
  
  Q. So is the wrist 100%?   
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Almost.  
  
  Q. I just looked. You might play Dolgopolov.   
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I don't know if I play against him.  
  
  Q. Do you know much about him? He's come on in the last...   
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: No, we play when -- we are same age, so I know him since young, since juniors. But he's playing pretty well. He has a good season, especially on clay courts, but I don't know what could happen after tomorrow.  
  
  Q. Did you play him often in the juniors?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Many times, yeah.  
  
  Q. Both ways or...   
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Both.  
  
  Q. Do you have a target to qualify again for the World Tour Finals at the end of this year, or are you not looking that far ahead?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: No, it's very far, very far in my goals. I just want to play healthy for all the year, trying to be ready as soon I can to play against top 10 players. I feel good, you know.   
 Maybe two months ago I feel really sad when I lost against Verdasco, Roddick, because I felt difference, different game. That's what I'm trying to feel again. I want to feel like I play against top 10 players in same conditions.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT