MIAMI OPEN PRESENTED BY ITAú
March 25, 2016
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
H. ZEBALLOS/J. Del Potro   
6-4, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Looked like you were suffering from the same problem.  Tell us how bad it was.  How much of a worry that is?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I was suffering a little bit.  It was worse than my first match, but I hope nothing dangerous.  I mean, I will see what's going on after today and see if I can practice tomorrow, if I can hit again like a little backhand.   
They said before this is a long road to get better.  Not to play well or to win matches, just to get better and to play tennis again.  I'm looking forward for that.  For me it's like surprise when I win a match in this moment because I'm not 100% yet.   
But I'm here.  Of course I'm suffering in moments, but I'm playing tennis.  Bad or really bad, but I'm playing.  That's good for me.   
 Q.  Congratulations.  Can you help me with what specifically is wrong with -- it's just your playing wrist?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I mean, it's the same thing as always, but it's nothing new, nothing different.  Just I'm trying to deal with this pain, this moment, and sometimes I can do better; sometimes not.   
But I already know these things going to happen very often to me.  To be prepared for that.   
 Q.  How shocked are you at whole day, at what's happened?  You found out an hour and a half before your match.  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I mean, if Roger pulled out, that means he doesn't feel 100% to play.  They change the opponent to me, but doesn't matter because I always do my game plan.  I always play the same game.   
I'm playing with myself, too.  My biggest opponent is just myself.  I have to beat myself as soon I can, because I want to play better in the future.   
 Q.  You've been through so much with this wrist, so many operations.  How much time are you going to give yourself?  Is this possibly going to be the last opportunity you'll give yourself to try and get through?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I don't know.  I don't know.  To months ago I was at home without know when is going to be my first tournament.  I already played three tournaments and I won five matches, and I had three matches against Querrey, Berdych, and Zeballos today, and he played well.  He's a lefty guy.  He can play to my backhand easy than everyone.  He plays very smart.   
I need to keep working.  If I have another tournament very soon would be great for me.  That's a good signal for my comeback.  I'm not sad, because today it's just a match.  I only want to play tennis.  If I can do better, it's going to be fine for me.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT