BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 29, 2009
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. DAVYDENKO/J. Del Potro
  6-3, 6-4 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Can you give us your thoughts on today's final.   
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, the final of the year, the season is over. This tournament has a great champion, like Nikolay. He work hard for beat every players here this week.   
 So maybe I have to improve a little bit the little things. But he's play much better than me, and that's it.   
  
  Q. How did you feel physically today? Would you prefer to play the final in the evening?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yeah, of course. But that's the rule of the game, you know. I had the day off after Federer for the semis, and Nikolay plays Friday to Saturday. So it's difference.   
 But he play an unbelievable tennis. He beat me in good way.   
  
  Q. At what time did you go to bed yesterday evening?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Like 3.   
  
  Q. You're very close now to being No. 4 in the rankings. What do you expect of yourself in the next couple months of next year?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, I have to keep working. I have many things to improve: my serve, my forehand. My goal is I'm gonna feel better with this part of the game so I can be in better position.   
 But I have very good players fighting with me, like Murray, Djokovic, Federer, Nadal. So I know the way to work.   
  
  Q. Even though you've had a great year, there was a foot fault, but that was not key? Your manner on the court, it's clear that you're a gentleman. It was important, because you lost the first serve.   
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Of course, was very important. After that foot fault, then he broke me, the serve, he take the way of the match.   
 But I don't know if I did or not. But last night against Soderling or against Federer happens the same, I think the same person. But, I don't know, maybe it was my fault.   
  
  Q. Have you ever been foot faulted and suffered a baby crying on court in the same final?   
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: No. But maybe he's boring watching our match (laughter).   
  
  Q. Say something about Davydenko's qualities. We don't know him so well like you know him. Maybe you can describe for us how strong is he.   
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Oh, he's very strong. I never beat him in hard court or indoors. He's very fast. He play like PlayStation. You know, he run to everywhere. Is very difficult to make winners.   
 But I think is a great champion. Nobody knows how can we beat him, so...   
  
  Q. What are your feelings looking back on the year that you've had?   
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, at this moment it's tough to say what I feel. But maybe when I arrive in Argentina, I will start to feel better, more relaxed. I will have vacations. The season was so hard. I need time off to recovery.   
  
  Q. At the completion of this tournament, would you say that you are disappointed having lost in the final or are you happy having reached the final?   
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: If I be in the final, I want to win. But here, all the players are very good. Maybe names like Federer, Djokovic or Nadal, Murray, everybody thinks they will be in the final. But doesn't happen.   
 So I did a good tournament anyway.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT