U.S. OPEN
September 14, 2009
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. DEL POTRO/R. Federer
  3-6, 7-6, 4-6, 7-6, 6-2 
  
 THE MODERATOR: We'll begin with questions in English for your 2009 US Open men's singles champion.  
  
  Q. How did you do what you did out there and how does it feel?   
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: It's difficult to explain this moment. You know, since young I dream with this and take trophy with me. You know, I did my dream, and it's unbelievable moment. It's amazing match, amazing people. Everything is perfect.   
 I don't know, I can't believe.  
  
  Q. First of all, congratulations. You've been speaking all week and quite clear that this is your favorite tournament and you've always dreamed of winning it. Sometimes dreams come true. Describe the emotions that you felt when it was a reality.   
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, when I lay down to the floor, many things come to my mind. First my family and my friends and everything. I don't know how I can explain, because it's my dream. My dream done. It's over. I will go home with a trophy, and it's my best sensation ever in my life.  
 It's too early to explain. Maybe tomorrow, maybe next week I will be believing in this. But now, I don't know. I don't understand nothing.   
  
  Q. The crowd out there, was that special?   
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yeah, of course, the crowd, it's so exciting cheering for both players. Very respectful for both players. They made a good show for everyone.   
  
  Q. I want to know where in the match you felt that you could do this? Federer is known for just pulling out the aces and going to the fifth set and making it. Somehow just having the mental stamina to go through. When did you feel that, wow, I think I got this, I can actually do this?   
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, when I won the second set, I think if I continuing playing same way, maybe I have chance to win. But after, when I lost the third set, going to break up, I start to think bad things, you know. It was so difficult to keep trying to keep fighting. But one more time the crowd and the fans helped me a lot to fight until last point. I think I have to say thank you to everyone for that.   
  
  Q. When you spoke to the crowd in Spanish afterward you got kind of emotional. What did you say?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, because my parents want to come watch the final and say, no, be there. Of course they are part of this moment. They believe in me a lot like my coaches. It's a special moment for me, for my parents and my friends. This trophy is for these, too.   
  
  Q. If there was one thing you think did you well today, what was it? Fighting or technically was it -- what?   
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Big focus every time and good feeling with my forehand I think was the key of the match.   
  
  Q. You've done it now one time. You're only 20 years old. Does this give you an incredible desire more than ever to be a consistent champion, somebody who can go out and win other Grand Slams as well and repeat here? Build a legacy?   
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I don't know, I just want to live this moment. Of course I will be in the history of this tournament. That's amazing for me. I have new opportunities in the other Grand Slams to win, because if I did here, if I beat Nadal, Federer and many good players, maybe I can do one more time.  
 But of course, will be difficult, because I was so close to lose today.   
  
  Q. You double faulted twice to go down two sets to one. How did you get yourself back into that match? What were you telling yourself?   
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, I was so...  
  
  Q. Were you momentarily down?   
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yeah, but that moment I start to think the final, playing with Roger, the best player of the history, nothing to lose. And be two sets to one down, but I think, okay, you never lose until the last point, so keep fighting. The crowd help me, and they saw my fight in every point.  
 So I think that's help me.  
  
  Q. You came this close to almost breaking the racquet after the third set. All of a sudden there seemed to be a new spark in you.   
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, I was so nervous. But for respect to me and respect to everyone, I don't do that, because maybe when I feel nervous I saw Roger and he's a gentleman player, you know. We have to learn many things about him. Many times I do that today.   
  
  Q. In the first set, he handled pretty well. Was it nerves on your end that you got a little nervous playing the first set? In the second set, what adjustments did you make to your game?   
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yes, the beginning of the match I was so nervous, I can't sleep last night. I don't take a breakfast today. That's part of the final, you know.   
 But Roger start very good. I start little down. I miss -- I was bad with my serve, and that's important weapon of my game. When I broke his serve for first time, I start to believe in my game. To change.   
  
  Q. You always talk so quietly with this soft voice, do you ever shout in your life, in your private life? Do you get angry?   
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yeah, of course. I was in the locker room...  
  
  Q. What did you do?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Doing some bad things. I cannot tell you.   
  
  Q. Does this victory, is it even more special because you beat Roger in the final?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yeah, of course. Beat Roger for first time here in my favorite Grand Slam, and two sets to one down, everything, I think it's the best final ever in my life, of course.   
 But if I beat Roger if three sets straight will be better. But it's impossible.   
  
  Q. Do you think the match you played against him in Paris helped you here?   
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yeah, sometimes help me, but sometimes no, because I was 4-5 serving and I did two double faults, same like Paris when I was 3-All in the fifth set.  
 I think that, but fortunately it was early. I have two more set to fight. Maybe that's help me.   
  
  Q. You earned a lot of money today. How are you gonna use this? Are you gonna buy something to treat yourself?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: No, maybe cheesecake for my birthday.   
  
  Q. The fact that you in your first Grand Slam final beat Roger, who is in the prime of his brilliant tennis career and the way did you it, what did you learn about yourself today and throughout the course of this tournament?   
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, I think everything is to learn about this match. I have many things to improve to be better. Of course I would like to be in top 4, top 3, or top 1 in the future. But I have to play like today many, many weeks in the year. If I still working and still going in the same way, maybe in the future I can do.   
  
  Q. Normally the strongest mentally player wins the tiebreaker. You played two tiebreaks against Federer and he starts one with a double fault and you win both. How did you explain? Do you think it was Federer who was, I don't say frightened, but something like that? Or that you did something really special?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, if I lose the fourth set tiebreak I lose the match. I did unbelievable points. I was focused every time trying to think on the point, and that's it.   
 Maybe Roger feel the nervous, because with his six straight tournament, of course it's difficult. But I did my things. I have respect for what my coach say before the match. That's the reason of my victory.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT