U.S. OPEN
September 13, 2009
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. DEL POTRO/R. Nadal
  6-2, 6-2, 6-2 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. You've been saying throughout the tournament and again on court today in the interview after the match that this is your favorite Grand Slam. So for you, to be in a final of a Grand Slam at what you have made clear is your favorite, what does that mean to you?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: It's part of my dream, you know. I'm very close to do it, but this moment is so nice, and I always dreamed of this moment.   
 I'm very happy to beat Rafa in straight sets, play unbelievable match. Of course it's great for me and for my future being in finals.  
  
  Q. Rafa said that on a number of occasions you seemed to be playing with greater confidence than he's ever seen you play with before. Do you feel right now you're as confident a player as you've ever been?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yes, I think so. I played a great match. I was so focused with my serve, with every breakpoints, playing serve, you know, trying to put the ball into the court and trying to be aggressive.  
 I saw Rafa in the baseline, but too far away on the baseline. That's important for me to come to the net and to do a short point.  
  
  Q. When you were a kid, little boy, niño, when did you first find out about the US Open and that it was a great tournament? And did you pretend you would hit against a wall or something and pretend you were at the US Open?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I don't remember, but I think was I saw the stadium too big, and I say, This will be my favorite tournament.  
  
  Q. When you saw the stadium?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yeah.  
  
  Q. You used to have it over you, many straight matches. Now you beat him six straight sets the last three times you played him. What has changed from the time he had the best of you?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, I improve a lot my game. And of course when you play against Rafa or Roger you should play ten points. And today was what I did. I serve very good in important moments. I was confidence with my forehand, and that's two part of my game are very important to be in good shape, you know.  
  
  Q. Today, or has that been recently?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yeah, it's every time.  
  
  Q. Are you confident right now that you could just take care of biz tomorrow because of what you've done the last two weeks?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I hope so. I will try to do my best tomorrow, trying to enjoy my first final. And, of course, I would like to win my first Grand Slam.  
  
  Q. If you happen to play Roger tomorrow, you have not beaten him before. What has to change, if you do play him tomorrow, for you to beat him?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, I have to play better than today. I never beat Djokovic also, so both will be tough (laughter.)  
 But I will try.  
  
  Q. Do you think confidence is that thing that maybe you didn't have in the past that maybe you have now, and that might be the difference-maker?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yes, I'm confidence. When I was playing against Roger in the French Open I was so close. On that surface was much better for me.  
 And if I play against him tomorrow, the surface going to help too much him not too much me. But I have a good sensation with everything, and I hope the best for tomorrow.  
  
  Q. How much faster is your serve now than it was this time last year, your first serve?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: My first serve? Well, 100%, I think. I cannot improve a lot, but now I'm doing well.  
  
  Q. What was wrong with it before?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I don't know. (laughter.)  
 Maybe the technique or, I don't know. Maybe the sun. I don't know. (laughter.)  
  
  Q. As a person, do you consider yourself an emotional player, an emotional human being that tomorrow could somehow bring troubles, or are you very confident this will not happen for sure?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I hope to be quiet for tomorrow to enjoy the moment, but could be difficult for me, because I never play a Grand Slam final.   
 But I have the game to win tomorrow. I just want to be focused with my tennis and try to beat Roger or Novak.  
  
  Q. You've become kind of a big crowd favorite. How much do you think that may play in tomorrow?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, they help me a lot to be happy in the court, you know. I heard the crowd so exciting when I did a good point, and that's beautiful for me.  
  
  Q. Last year you had many problems before Paris. You had to stop tennis for a long time. Do you ever think now how maybe lucky you are that maybe you're fit, you're strong, you're doing so well? Are you thinking baseline the past when you had worries that you could not play for who knows how long?   
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I never think the past, you know. I just go my way and trying to improve every day my game. And of course I'm living much better this moment than two years ago, last maybe 12 months ago.   
 But I'm in good shape. I'm physically feeling good with my tennis, too, so that's important.   
  
  Q. Rafa has tremendous spin on the ball, slice, and it's going all over the place, and yet you handle it very well. Do you think you see the ball better than most people?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Maybe my green eyes. I don't know. It's very tough playing against Rafa or Roger.   
 But today I play unbelievable, and that's was the key.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT