TENNIS MASTERS CUP
November 9, 2008
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  N. DJOKOVIC/J. Del Potro  
7-5, 6-3  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. It's your first match at a Tennis Masters Cup, eight elite players. Just the sense you had on the court. Were you nervous? How did you feel about the opportunity?   
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yeah, I started the match with little nervous, but it's normally. I never play Masters. I play against one of the best player of the world, so it was complicated to start the match.   
 But after I feel better. I did my game. We play long points, good points. Was a great match for him. Now I have to wait for another matches.   
  
  Q. How is your toe, and is there any danger that you may have to pull out of the tournament?   
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yeah, I feel little pain, but is always feel pain since US Open. So I can play, I can run, but is difficult sometimes. I feel a lot of pain, but I have two more matches.   
 I want to do my best, and then we will see what happen with my toe.   
  
  Q. Compared with your last match against Djokovic, are you satisfied with the way you played your game right now? Your confidence looks at a high level. You played consistently on the baseline. Are you satisfied with your game right now?   
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yeah, we play a good match. I have my chance, but I didn't get it. So when you play against Nadal, Federer, or Djokovic, you have just one chance or two times on the match. If you don't be focused to get it you lose, and that's what happened today.   
 I play great first set. I had a breakpoints. I didn't get it. After he start to play much better than me. That was the key.   
  
  Q. Can you reflect a little bit on why you think your game all of a sudden really came together this summer. You had that amazing four-consecutive tournament wins. Anything you can pinpoint? Have you still not figured it out? Just luck?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yeah, I don't know what happened in this summer (smiling). Difficult to explain because is a little crazy, you know. In three months I won lot of matches, lot of tournaments.   
 Now I have lot of confidence. I should beat the best player of the world if I want to qualify for semifinals, no? I need to be relaxed and just enjoy this moment. I did a great season, so I don't expect any more for this year.   
  
  Q. After the Masters Cup everybody gets rest, but you have one more tournament to play. Is the Davis Cup final also a concern in Shanghai, for instance, to save some energy or not to get injured?   
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: No. If I be here, it's because I can play and I want to win this tournament. If I want to rest, I didn't come.   
 I'm here to fight in all my matches, and then I will have time, three or four days, to recovery for Davis Cup. We have Nalbandian also, or Calleri or Acasuso. They can play if I don't be good. I will try to be good for the Davis Cup, also.   
  
  Q. You have received some gifts from your Chinese fans. How do you like them?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I like it. I like China. Is too far from Argentina, but maybe next year I will come again.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT