APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 15, 2015
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. KUKUSHKIN/J. Del Potro
  7‑6, 7‑6 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Tough day at the office.   No breaks of serve; no break points.   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   It was a tough match.   I think he deserve to win because he played better than me in the tiebreak.  
The match was close for both.   I served well, but my wrist hurts a little bit more than yesterday, and I couldn't hit harder than my last match.  
Anyway, he played very smart.   He was all the time playing to my backhand and playing slices.  
I think anyway it's a great week for me.   I did more than what I expect before.   I play three matches in a row and I played against good players in this tournament, which means a good comeback for me.   
   
 Q.   Happy with the seven sets of tennis, three tiebreakers?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yes, of course.   I'm happy just to be playing tennis again against these player.   Will be more interesting for me and I will be improving faster than training at home with my coach.   That's what I'm looking for here in this tournament.  
Now it's time to recovery, for to do treatment on my wrist, and to stay healthy.   
   
 Q.   Probably a good time to have a bit of a break all things considered.   Couple days off maybe?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, I just want to finish today in good shape.   I have to do treatments now, and tomorrow I will have day off.   Then we will think when we go to Melbourne and start to prepare that tournament.  
We go day by day.   It's dangerous for me if I'm looking forward for the next tournaments or the next month.   
I say before, I have to be patient and do my best every day.   
   
 Q.   What do they do for the wrist in between matches?   Tournaments?   Is it a matter of stretching?   What kind of things?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Stretching, physio.   I do some exercise before matches, after, the wrap, ultrasound, these kind of things.  
But I have to be there all the time at the physio room trying to fix my problem.   It's take time every day, but I have energy to do it because I want to play healthy.  
   
 Q.   And you mentioned it was a little worse today.   Do you think that's because of buildup of so many matches?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, I think so.   I think so.   I didn't expect to play three matches in a row in this tournament.   I just wanted to play my first round and see what's happen.   
But I got lucky playing three matches in this tournament against good players.   I'm still here; I'm still alive.   I feel tired, but okay.   
I think I improved a lot in these three matches for the future.   
   
 Q.   You sat down early in the second set, 2‑All I think, like not at a changeover, and so did Kukushkin.   You guys both sat down.   What was going on there?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   We got tired.   (Laughter.)   I don't know what happened with him, but I was exhausted for sure.   It was my longest rally on my comeback.   I wanted to stop the match there.  
But also was hot weather.   We played long rallies.   I'm not ready for that yet.   So anyway, I'm happy to do that.   The crowd enjoyed that moment.   I enjoyed a lot, too.  
Doesn't matter the score now, I think I did a great tournament anyway.  
   
 Q.   With your wrist hurting the more that you play, will you lighten your training load before the Australian Open?   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   No, I need to keep training, and training hard every day.   I will have day off maybe tomorrow.   I will fly to Melbourne tomorrow.   
Then I need to practice with these guys.   The only reason to be ready for play against the better player on the world.   I don't have a magic solution.   Just be patient, stay calm, and do my best every day to do a big effort to come back.  
This is my biggest challenge on my new career again.   
   
 Q.   What kind of approach are you taking to the Australian Open?   Are you concerned about what might happen in the match or the draw?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Sorry?   
   
 Q.   Are you concerned about what might happen if you get a really tough match or draw, or just looking forward to whatever happens?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   No.   I will be waiting a tough draw in Melbourne for sure.   But I have to think about my opponent and my first match on tour again playing a Grand Slam.   Many people will be watching me and expecting to win some matches.  
It's not easy, but everybody has to know I'm 338th player in the world at the moment.   I just beat the top 20 player here, top 50, it's great for these kind of players, so I'm happy for that.   
But I want to meet also Federer, Djokovic, these guys, because I miss them when I was at home.   I only speak with WhatsApp or by phone.   Now I will meet the biggest players of this sport again.  
   
 Q.   Are you looking forward to seeing them again on or off the court?   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Sorry?   
   
 Q.   Do you want to see them on or off the court?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Off the court for sure.   Not on court yet.   I need couple of months.   I want to have the chance to play them, but in good shape, you know.   Not like today, because they will be favorite for sure.   
But when I will be fit I want to play against them again.   
   
 Q.   I would like to know, what was your training regimen for last season when you were out of the court?   Did you have a special training?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   No, I just trained.   I do works out; I did gyms; I running a lot; I hit some serves, forehands.  
But was focus on my wrist and do my treatment on my wrist every day.   Because also if I‑‑ it could be dangerous for my right shoulder or different spot of my body if I hit all the time with forehands and serves and never in my backhand, never use my left hand.  
But I think we did an acceptable work because I won two matches here.   I play three in a row and I'm doing a slowly comeback, but I'm looking forward.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT