BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 9, 2014
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Juan Martin has to pull out of the tournament with the same wrist injury that forced him to retire last week in Dubai.   He's here to explain the situation and answer a few questions in English and Spanish.
English first. 

Q.   Very disappointing for you.   Can you just talk us through what you have been able to do since Dubai and what the situation is, please. 
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Well, my situation, it's the same as Dubai.   The wrist is still bothering me a lot.   I signed up for doubles here to try before singles how I'm feeling, and I played yesterday and I didn't feel really well. 
I'm not feeling 100%, and I'm not in good conditions to compete and to try and to win the tournament.
I mean, I always like to feel good and feel the chance to win the tournament, and I'm not feeling that.   The wrist is still bothering me a lot, and my doctors tell me to wait ten more days doing the treatment and do everything possible to play in Miami.
That's what is my focus now.   I will have the next ten days for do the same treatment, the same exercises, the same rehabilitation, and try to get in Miami much better than here and see what could happen in that tournament.

Q.   Do you think ten days will be enough?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I have been doing this treatment for a week before, so it will be around 20 days, which is enough to see if I'm improving or not.   It's a lot of days doing the same treatment, and what I say, my focus now is trying to do everything possible to play in Miami. 
I only would like to think about this at the moment.   It's not like a glad moment for me, pulling out on this tournament and retirement in Dubai.   I'm not having the year what I expected in the beginning, but I have to deal with it.
My doctors recommend me to don't play here, to keep trying the treatment, and see if I can be 100% and in good conditions to play Miami. 

Q.   When did you actually feel that it was getting bad again?   When was the first moment when it began to affect you?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I never feel a good improvement.   The only things was good for me was the infiltration I made couple of weeks before.   But it's not helping a lot to play 100%, and every day I feel some pain and it's bothering me a lot. 
That's why I'm trying to be careful more than ever.   I had experience on these kind of injuries, and if the doctor says to don't play this tournament, I believe his words.   And we are now looking forward to improve a recovery for Miami.

Q.   I don't know if you already answered the question, but is it the same problem with the left that you have on the right?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, it's very similar, yeah.   Very similar.   It's the ligaments problems.

Q.   Were you feeling it in Sydney/Melbourne, as well? 
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   The problem start in Melbourne.   Yeah.   In my first round in Melbourne, yeah. 
And after that match is painful all the time.   I couldn't spend time without the pain after Melbourne.

Q.   What will you do now?   Will you stay here in America?   Will you go back home? 
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   No, my doctor is here and we are having close contact.   I will do the treatment here in the United States, practice in my body, doing gym and everything.   All what I can do for be ready in Miami I will do it, but the focus is on my wrist and trying to fix the problem as soon as possible to be back on court very soon.

Q.   Do you think, because of all the problems you have had with your wrist over the years, that this is going to become a chronic thing and it's going to disrupt you?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   It could be, but we are trying to be smart now.   Sometimes better lose the tournament than lose a year, you know. 
The doctor recommend me to don't play here, to keep trying the treatment, and the next chance will be in Miami if I feel in good conditions to win a tournament.   Not like just win a match, you know.   It's a big difference.   We will see in Miami. 
After that tournament, I will know what is gonna be my future.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT