DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 25, 2014
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. DEVVARMAN/J. Del Potro
  7‑6, 0‑0 [Ret.] 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Sympathies, obviously.   The advice was that it was okay to play, but I guess that was wrong?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, I don't feel really well.   My wrist is hurting a lot, and, you know, everybody knows what's happen to me four years ago with my other wrist.   
I mean, it was really tough to play today and I tried everything, but it's very difficult play like in these conditions, you know, playing slices or I cannot be the player what I would like to be.  
And that's it.   This is my present today.  
   
 Q.   When did it start hurting?   Was it before the match or during the match?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   No, I mean, it's hurting all the time, and it's sometimes less and sometimes little more.   But it's hurting, and I have been in contact with my doctor all the time.   He's trying to keep me motivated to keep playing, but I know what it's my limit playing on court.   Today was enough.   
Now I will see what he says for the future, and I will let you know very soon what's my plans gonna be.  
   
 Q.   When you saw him, did he say that surgery could be down the line or some kind of special treatment, or he didn't even get into that information?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Well, I cannot say that yet, but I'm feeling similar pains to the other hand and what I felt four years ago.  
It's not really positive things to my future, but the good thing he's still confident with his self, and he's trying put me on court all the time, and of course I will do what he say and I have to be strong as ever.  
   
 Q.   You're talking about your doctor.   This is the guy in Minnesota?   This isn't a guy back in Argentina?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   No, no, it's the same doctor who fixes my right wrist.   I believe on him, and maybe tonight or tomorrow I will keep in contact with him.  
   
 Q.   Are you going to go straight there, or are you going to go...   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Anyways, the next tournament is in the United States, and I have a couple of weeks off before the tournament and I will be there to see the doctor and what advice he will give to me.  
   
 Q.   What are you thinking at this point in time?   Do you feel that your season could perhaps be over and that you might need to just sit yourself on the sidelines and give it a great deal of rest?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I mean, it's also tough to speak with you at this moment.   I just came to for respect your job, but I will let you know maybe tonight or tomorrow what I have, clearly what my issue is clearly, and what's my plans gonna be for the next days.  
But the only things what I know, I have been doing a big effort to play this tournament, and it was not enough to play what I like to play.  
   
 Q.   If you won that first set would you have continued?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I don't think so, no.   Because it was hurting too much, and I mean, it's not for the other guy, for the crowd playing what I played.   I would like to thanks them, because they respect me and they understood my situation.   
He also played a good set, and I wish luck to him.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT