U.S. OPEN
September 5, 2016
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J. DEL POTRO/D. Thiem
6-3, 3-2 (ret.)
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. First of all, how do you feel?  After all these matches in a row, winning, you weren't probably expecting 15, 20 days ago, how does it feel?  Are you surprised in a way about this?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yes, a little bit.  I didn't expect to be in quarters in my second Grand Slam after my comeback.  I'm doing in a good way because I'm playing good tennis.  My level is growing up every day.
I'm so glad to be part of the last eight in this tournament, and that I will have the chance to play another big challenge after tomorrow.  Everything can happen.  So I will try to be there.
Q. After your third surgery did you ever have actual serious thoughts about retiring and stepping away from this?  If you did not, did you have doubts that you would get back to a slam?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, I was close to retired before my third surgery, but after that I always believe on myself to come back on tennis.  When I made the decision to do the surgery, I always believe I will come back, for sure.
And after that, everything change to myself, and now I'm here.  I'm playing free.  I don't have any big problems in my wrist, and that's important.  Sometimes bother me a little bit, but I can deal with that.  I'm still improving my backhand.
Q. Did you have to make any adjustments today for wind or with the roof open?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: No, I think it was okay for us.  The sound of the balls was much better than the other night.
I really enjoyed the crowd today, as well.  It was okay.
Q. In Wimbledon you said the reason you cannot hit backhand with your hand is not only because of the pain.  (Indiscernible.)
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, I'm not worried about my wrist at the moment because I'm practicing every day.  I'm playing matches every day.  My wrist responds in the good way.
Now I have to hit my backhand even better than today for my next match.  Here is a different surface than Wimbledon, so my slices doesn't go too well as I did in Wimbledon.
But I'm okay with my level.  I'm hitting good forehands.  My serve is working good.  I'm looking forward to do a good match after tomorrow.
Q. You have obviously had to develop through the injury, recovery period, one-handed backhand slicing a lot more than you used to do.  Do you feel actually you have come out at the end of it with a stronger range of backhands than you did before the injury?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yeah, I would like to improve my backhand as well now.  I think with that change, my slices, my volley is improve a lot, because normally I didn't use that shot and now I'm using very often.
But in the future, if can combine slices and volleys with my old backhand would be more dangerous for my game and I will be comfortable with all the weapons.
Q. What effect does what you did here in 2009 have on the way you have been able to keep confidence even through the worst of injuries and make this comeback?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, this tournament, it's great for me.  I always love to play in New York, in these stadiums.  Of course I had a great memories from 2009, but now my person is completely different.
I enjoying even more when I get into the courts than years ago.  I just want to play tennis in front of the big crowds.  I'm so exciting to still winning matches and maybe be in the top positions in the future.
But I don't care about that at the moment.
Q. How did the 2009 experience factor into your thinking as you had the worst of times with your injuries?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, I think everything in 2009 is completely the past.  You know, of course I asked for the wildcard here because of that memory, you know.  I like to be here.
But now my life is different.  I have a different game.  I'm getting older.  Everything is like new for me.  It's like a new career after my third surgery.  I'm really enjoying this.
Q. How important was your round at the Olympics for the confidence?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, was very, very important because I start to believe in myself after that tournament.  I'm feeling aggressive with my game.  I'm feeling competitive in front of all of the players.
For all the players on tour are very important the confidence on court, and I think I'm in a good, in good shape to see the future.
Q. If you play Stan again, when you beat him at Wimbledon it seemed like a very big moment in your comeback, but you have had a lot of big moments since then.  Can you think back to that match and how your summer has gone since then?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: It's gonna be different match for sure.  Different surface.  Stan survives in the third round, I think.  In the fifth he won a great match, and now he's winning easily.
He will be the favorite to win in that match, but anything can happen in this event for me.  I got the power from the crowd in every match, and that's help me a lot to fight and to play my best tennis.
I'm confident with my level to do a good match.
Q. Talking a lot about your old backhand.  When do you expect, if you expect, that the old backhand will be back?  I mean, do you have any idea?  And a doctor of yours tells you, Okay, next January you'll be okay, or not?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: No, of course not.  I will stay calm if that happens.  But if you see my practice, my backhand is going --
Q. Getting better?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Getting better.  It's faster than in the match.  At least I'm improving at practice.  Then one day I will be playing the same way of the matches.
But nobody knows when it's gonna be that day.
Q. How are you feeling as far as after your third-round match, and how did it help you today to only be out there for only an hour?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, of course it's not good to win a match in this way.  I'm very sad for him.  I wish all the best.  He's a nice guy.
And for my body, could help a little bit.  Right after the match I hit for a while again.  I need to be 100% in the next round.  I'm feeling little tired because I didn't stop after Rio.  My body feels that, but I will be okay.
Q. As you say, Stan here on this surface and at this tournament is very different than when you faced him at Wimbledon; you're probably in a different spot with your comeback, as well.  So considering both sides, whatsoever challenges do you see in that match?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, it's gonna be interesting to play and to watch, for sure.  We both play hard and we hit very hard the ball.
But depends of me.  Depends of my game.  Depends on my serve.  Basically my forehands.  And then I will try to play smarter than today.
Of course it's gonna be a different match than Wimbledon because the surface, but if I'm okay and I feel good the ball, I will have a little chance to win.
Q. Are you superstitious a little bit?  I mean, you think that history can repeat?  2009 first round you beat Juan Monaco.  This time Schwartzman.  Ferrer.  This time Ferrer.  That time Melzer and this time Dominic Thiem.
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I don't remember.  (Laughter.)  I only remember the finals against Roger, and he's not here.  But it's good point.  (Laughter.)






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT