AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 14, 2014
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. DEL POTRO/R. Williams
  6‑7, 6‑3, 6‑4, 6‑4 
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.  
 Q.   That was a tougher challenge than you might have been expecting for a first round?
  JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, of course.   I didn't expect this kind of matches against him.   I didn't know too much before the match how he's playing tennis. 
  But he serve well.   His forehand is good.   I start the match really, really slow, and then was difficult to come back and play my game. 
  But in the end, I serve well.   I hit some good forehands.   That's help me to improve a little bit my game.  
 Q.   A question about your racquet.   Are you using the same racquet that you used in 2009 when you won the US Open?
  JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yes.  
 Q.   Were you supposed to get new racquets before this tournament that didn't come?
  JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   No, no.   I made a test.   I try a few racquets before Australian Open, but I didn't feel the confidence to change before a Grand Slam.   It's not easy find the good time to change racquet.   Every tournament are important for us. 
  But I think I'm getting closer to change racquets, and that's important for me.  
 Q.   Right now you're still using the same racquet?
  JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I'm still using the old ones. 
 Q.   Is that partially because of the confidence you felt with that?
  JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, I've been playing many years with these racquets.   And after my wrist surgery, come back to play tennis with this racquet and I feel okay.   Nothing dangerous on my wrist. 
  I had a special feelings with this racquet, but I also know I need to change or I need few more racquets to play on this level.  
 Q.   Do they not make this racquet any more?   Is it still being made, the Wilson racquet?
  JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I'm still working with Wilson.   We are together trying to find the best racquet for me.   We are positive and confidence to get a new racquet as soon as possible. 
  But the good thing and the most important thing is still working together.  
 Q.   How did you find the conditions today in the heat?
  JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Was terrible for play.   I mean, it was for both player, but is tough to play long rallies, to manage the weather conditions.   And it's tough to play in these kind of conditions. 
  I mean, you are thinking about a lot more things than the tennis match.   You are trying to drink a lot and always thinking about your body, your physic, and not about the game. 
  I know tomorrow and after tomorrow it's going to be worst, so I will try to be ready for the weather conditions, too.  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT