APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 11, 2014
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. DEL POTRO/B. Tomic
  6‑3, 6‑1 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Congratulations.   I supposes a little easier than you expected.   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   The finals never are easy, but I was surprise of my level of tonight.   I think I play great.   My forehand works perfect; I make a lot winners; many aces; play good slices.   
Every long rally we played I won all of them, which is good for my confidence during the game.   I think Bernard was a little frustrating after see me very focus on the match and hitting the ball so well.   
He is still young in some moment of the match, but he has everything to win titles, and he will reach finals very, very soon.  
   
 Q.   Is it good to play a night final, too?   Probably get some night matches in Melbourne.   And also the conditions.   You played a lot in the daytime.   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, I think it was a really nice tournament for me.   Also for the preparation.   I played during the night.   I played at morning, at noon, with different condition, which is good for my adaptation before the Grand Slam.  
Now I have a couple of days to recovery my body and feel 100% before a great challenge for me.   
   
 Q.   It's not the heights of the US Open, but every title is very special, I would assume.   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, of course.   Start the year in this way, it's very, very positive looking forward for the rest of the season.   I need to still working in the same conditions and the same way.   
Now it starts its hardest tournament for us, and I will see if I can do farthest than last year in Melbourne.   
   
 Q.   Did you enjoy all of the Argentinian support in the crowd tonight?   Seemed to be a lot of them there.  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, a lot of Argentinian fans.   What I saw on the court, the Australian fans respect me a lot even playing against Bernie.   It's so nice to me playing in front of this atmosphere with this crowd.   
It was a really nice, nice week for me.   Even the jet lag.   I'm still wake up early, early every day.   
But I really enjoying all days here in Sydney, and hopefully I can be here next year.   
   
 Q.   You had two three‑set matches at the beginning of the tournament.   You got better and better as it went on.   Are you confident you're peaking at the right time before the Australian Open next week?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I hope so.   I'm start the year in like a slow motion, you know, and very slow movement, not hitting harder my forehands and backhands.   
But it's normal.   
After two or three matches I start to play much better.   My movements are faster than the first rounds here.  
In Melbourne playing five‑set matches, the body has it respond 100% all the time.   I think I did good preparation during the off‑season, and I will see what's happen next week.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT