APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 10, 2014
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. DEL POTRO/D. Tursunov
  6‑4, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Must be very happy.   Serving looked spot on today.   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, I think I played the best match of the week.   I played great with my forehands and serves.   I didn't make easy errors and I play solid on the baselines and I play good dropshots, good volleys.   
I think I did everything okay, and I'm glad with my level of today.   I'm looking forward for the final of tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Did you find out the draw beforehand?   Was it hard to concentrate on the match when the Australian Open draw came out?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I didn't see it yet, and I don't want to know yet.   I think I'm trying to be professional.   This tournament is not over yet for me.   I have an important match tomorrow, so I try to just be focus on this tournament, on this draw, this schedule.   
And my team already knows they're not allowed to talk about Melbourne yet.   My friends, too.   If I can be focused just on in tournament it's much better for me.   
   
 Q.   Tomic and Stakhovsky, they're on court now.   Talk about each of them.   You've played each of them once before.   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, I know Tomic is in good tournament.   He's very smart to play.   He has everything to be in the higher ranking very soon.   He's a local guy, so he has a little advantage to the rest.   He already won this tournament last year, so he must feel confidence to play down the center court.   
Stakhovsky is another aggressive player.   He like to come into the net a lot and he doesn't like to play long rallies.   
So I don't know who is going to be my opponent tomorrow, but I need to play my game, be aggressive like always, and try to serve even better than today.  
   
 Q.   Anything about Bernard's game in particular?   It's a bit unusual, some of his shots.   Anything in particular that worries you?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I think I was watching a little bit this match, and he's hitting harder his forehand.   He been working a lot on that forehand I think.   He improve a little bit his game.  
In the final everything can happen.   Doesn't matter who's the favorite on the paper.   The final must to be play, and tomorrow I can tell you who is the winner.  
   
 Q.   I won't tell you anything about the draw apart from Bernard's draw.   He drew Nadal.   If someone like Bernard came to you and asked how to play Nadal, what would you tell him?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I don't think so.   He's very smart.   For sure it's going to be a great experience for him playing on center court against the No. 1 in the world.   And also he has the chance to beat Nadal.   He's a great player.  
I think if he has to take one place to have chance to beat Rafa, maybe he will take Melbourne on the Rod Laver arena.   Could be a good chance for him.  
Also Rafa is really tough player.   First round Grand Slam, five set, it's not easy to beat him.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT