BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 9, 2013
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. FEDERER/J. Del Potro
  4‑6, 7‑6, 7‑5 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   What do you think was the difference in the end today?   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Well, I'm little disappointed about my match of today.   I think I got two chances to win the match.   I broke his serve in the second set and in the third one.   
But also he play great when I was up in the score, and he deserve to come back in both sets.   But in the end when you have to be focus and find the winners, I made the mistakes, and he was there really focused to take the chance.   
I think that was the key of the match.   
   
 Q.   You've played him a few times now recently.   You always had close matches.   How do you assess his level today as opposed to when you played in the last few weeks?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I think was another close match.   We played three times in a row, all three sets.   Both player has the chance to win all of them matches.   
But today was for him.   That's give me at least a motivation for the next season.   I think I'm doing great match against the top guys.   They don't beat me so quick or so easy in this part of the year, which is good for be positive and getting closer to my biggest goal.   
   
 Q.   You've had your best season since coming back from your injury.   What are your goals for next year?   Is it to win your second slam or to improve in the rankings?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I think I did a great season.   Maybe I finish in the top five after three years and a half, which is really good see my ranking and see my name in the top positions.   
For this year was my goal, trying to play in the same level than the top guys.   I think I beat all of them.   I am the only player who beat all of them in this season, which means something for me.   
Of course, thinking in the future, I will try to play better the Grand Slam.   I did well just in Wimbledon this year, so I will try to do well in the four Grand Slam for next season.   
But if I still be regular for all year, could be fantastic for me.   
   
 Q.   When you were leading, what do you think you were doing well to build those leads, and what do you think he was doing not as good?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Thank you for reminding me (smiling).   
I don't know.   I think I start much better than him, of course.   But in the second and the third one, against Federer or these guys, maybe break up doesn't mean nothing.   You have to have at least two breaks like I did in the first set.   I was really close that set anyway.   
But I always thought about the long match, like today.   In the end, he was playing much better some points, and that's it.   
   
 Q.   Given your streak of recent matches, close matches against big players throughout the season, what aspects of your game do you think you have to work on for 2014?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Well, I said before, if I still playing in this way I think I will put them in the same condition like I did in the second part of the year.   They don't beat me easy, and I beat some tournaments.   All the matches are close, but in the end they still beat me because they have a little difference yet.   Maybe I need to be strong mentally or strong physically.   
But with my tennis, I think I'm okay.   I have still things to improve like my volleys or my approaches to the net.   But in the end they make difference mentally or physically.   I will be working hard on that.   
   
 Q.   What is your racquet situation?   You give your racquets to be restrung during the match?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah.   I don't have too many.   But hopefully for next season I will have a couple of more racquets.   I don't know which brand.   Hopefully the same racquet I'm using now.   
   
 Q.   How many do you have now left?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I don't know.   I couldn't break my racquets today, but I wished (laughter).   
   
 Q.   You're not one of the older players yet.   Of the players 23 and under that you see on the tour right now, who do you expect to make a big move next year?   Who have you been impressed with this season?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Well, I think Raonic is almost a top‑10 guy.   Dimitrov is playing well.   He has a big talent, good personality to improve his game and fight for the top‑10 position.   
I think also Tomic is too smart to play and he has everything to improve.   
But we don't want to them take out our place, of course.   We need to stay strong and don't let them getting closer to us.   
   
 Q.   I know that you are a Boca Junior soccer team fan.   Are you also a fan of Santamarina?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yes.   Is my soccer team from Tandil.   I like it.   But I like more Boca Juniors.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT