BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 4, 2013
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. DEL POTRO/R. Gasquet
  6‑7, 6‑3, 7‑5

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   You must be pleased to be able to get that win.   It was a tough one.   Sounds like you were tired coming into the tournament.   What are your thoughts about that match?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, after win everything is much better.   But in the beginning of the match, I couldn't be positive.   I was frustrating for the days before I came here.   I was thinking too many things.   I'm not play my game.   It was really difficult to be positive and be focused just in the match. 
But then the atmospheres down there was incredible and that help me to enjoy a little bit the match.   I couldn't close the match when I serve 5‑4 because I was nervous.   I made easy mistakes.   But then in the end, I play good points and finally I can beat one of the tougher opponents on my group. 

Q.   Towards the end of the third set, there were a couple contentious Hawk‑Eye reviews that both went against you.   Do you believe Hawk‑Eye?   Do you think overall it's good for the sport?   Do you think it was right on those two calls?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I think we still believe on the Hawk‑Eye.   It's much better for us.   Sometimes we know sometimes they can make a mistake, but normally it's works perfect. 
If the Hawk‑Eye doesn't work well, you have the chair umpire to make overrules.   For us is much better.   We play really relax when we have the Hawk‑Eye. 

Q.   Why do you think you feel nervous?   What kind of pressure do you feel here?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   A lot of pressure basically against Richard, because I think in my next two matches I will have nothing to lose.   If I was to pass the group, today match was the key to stay alive and with chances.   That's what I feel nervous. 
I think I never win my first match in the Masters Cup.   It's my first victory today.   That's also make me feel nervous. 
But now I'm feeling so glad to beat Richard.   I'm still with chances to go through. 

Q.   You said you were struggling to focus on the tennis to start with.   Was that partly because of what happened to you on Saturday?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, that's why. 

Q.   Have you heard anything from the French police?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   No. 

Q.   Do you have any hope you might get your things back or not?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I don't think so (smiling). 

Q.   You started struggling mentally on Saturday?   You only lost two matches since the US Open, which is good. 
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, is very good.   But is tough to enjoying the fantastic tournament after my really bad Saturday.   I like to play tennis.   I enjoy a lot my work.   But someone took some part of my life, you know.   Is really resently, I don't know how you say it.   It's tough to don't think about that. 
Maybe I have very confident things, and you never know what can happen with that.   I don't have any news yet.   But I will try to keep going and feel better day to day. 

Q.   You've never had anything that valuable taken from you before, like the rosary?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, one of my things was the rosary.   But I have a few things which means a lot from my life.   I don't have it anymore. 

Q.   You had a tough game tonight against Gasquet.   Doesn't get any easier with Federer or Djokovic.   How confident are you you can come out of the group and reach the semifinals and possibly win the event?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Well, the next two matches going to be different, different opponents.   We play many times this year each other.   I just beat Roger two weeks ago.   He beat me last week.   We always play good matches.   So I will see against him. 
And Novak is playing really well.   Is unbeatable after the US Open.   He won in Beijing, then Shanghai and in Paris also. 
So what I say before, I don't have nothing to lose against them.   It's another good chance to play good tennis and get closer to the best of the world. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT