BNP PARIBAS MASTERS
October 30, 2013
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. DEL POTRO/M. Cilic
  6‑4, 7‑6 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   It wasn't an easy start of the tournament against Marin.   How did you feel on the court coming from Basel where you won the title?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Is not anything I ‑‑ I was expecting a different match, because he was out of competition for a while, but he showed very good form and he plays very well.  
Always is tough to play a friend or other good player as Marin.   He should be in the top position, for sure, and he will be over there next season.  
But I'm confident with my game, and in important moments I played solid.   Just trying to find a way to hit my forehand, and I think I did a good job today.  
   
 Q.   Did you enjoy the conditions?   Court, balls, everything?   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah.   Yeah, I think the balls are the same as Basel.   The court could be faster, but I like to play on indoor courts, and the atmosphere there was nice, so I enjoyed a lot.   
   
 Q.   Wondering what your thoughts were on Marin's case and his saga.   This is his first tournament back, and obviously he's pretty happy to be back.   Just wondering what you thought of the whole episode.   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, we saw him pretty happy to be back on tour, to play tennis again.   I know how difficult it was at that time for him, and I think now it's everything clear that the tribunal made a good decision.   
I mean, I believe on the tribunal and I believe on Marin and for us.   I think it's very good to see him playing again.   I know him for many years, and I think he's a nice guy.   So I think it's, for all the tennis, is very good to have him again.  
   
 Q.   Do you pay a lot of attention to these cases when they happen, or do you mostly...   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Not too much.   I'm trying to don't read too much things.   The tribunal are the experienced to do this job, and we trust of them and on them, and I think they made a good decision for all the players.   
   
 Q.   Maybe you were asked this in Basel, but do you think you're playing the best tennis of your life, better than when you won the US Open?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, maybe.   I think I'm playing fantastic tennis.   I won four tournaments.   It's my first season to win four tournaments.   I'm in the top 5 after three years and a half, and I made semifinals in Wimbledon.   
I'm playing really good at the moment, reaching three finals in a row, which is fantastic for me.   I think I‑‑ I mean, my forehand is working really good.   My serve has improved tournament by tournament, and I'm really glad with my level at this moment.  
   
 Q.   How is fatigue?   Do you feel any fatigue?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, a little bit, but it's only two more tournaments to close the year, two big tournaments, and I'm looking forward to finish in good shape and getting closer to the first, all the top guys.  
   
 Q.   You're playing Dimitrov next round.   What do you think about it?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Well, he's a young player, but he has a fantastic attitude on court.   He has a big potential too and he's very fast.   We play each other the beginning of this year, and it was a very difficult match for him, for me, and I think it's gonna be interesting match.   
I like his game, and he play aggressive all the time.   He has the chance to come into the net, play slices.   The game of him is similar like Federer, and he's not an easy opponent for me.   
   
 Q.   I heard reports in Basel that you were only playing with two racquets now; is that right?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   That must make life pretty hard.   I heard they are losing tension, too, these racquets?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I send to the stringer very quick, and they string for me, like in every half an hour or every hour I'm changing the racquets after one set.   But I think it's enough for close the year.   I hope for next year I will get more racquets.  
   
 Q.   Why not more racquets now?   I'm sure people will give you racquets if you want them.   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, but they're not the same.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT