U.S. OPEN
September 3, 2016
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J. DEL POTRO/D. Ferrer
7-6, 6-2, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. What feeling do you get as an emotional person when you hear the way other players speak about you and the way you've come back?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, I feel like proof of that.  The best player on tour are talking good things about me.  That's important to myself, to get confidence with my level, with my play, with my game.
If they see something good in my game, that's important, because I'm showing a good game at the moment.  If I see my way to the future will be better, even better than today, and that's important.
Q. But they speak about your character and your determination as much as your game.  When you hear them talk about you as a person, what are your feelings?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: They are talking good or not (smiling)?
I have a great relationship with most of the guys on tour.  I just do my job on court, you know.  I'm trying to be focused all the time, trying to keep calm all the time.  It's important to play great matches, to stay focused in important moments.
And if you see the top guys on tour, they have a good attitude, as me, and that's important.
Q. You had a little bit of a slow start but became very strong as the match went on against a tough competitor.  What was your feeling as the match went on and how did you get stronger?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, I got stronger mentally after the first set.  Against David you never know when is going to finish the match.  He never give up.  He's a really fighter.  Also it's a pleasure to play against him because he puts me all the time in pressure.  I should play my best tennis today.  I think I did really well in the second and the third one.
I'm so glad to be in the second week on the Grand Slam after three or four years.  That's means a lot of good things to myself.  Of course, I'm looking forward to keep winning.  But my next opponent will be really difficult.
I'm enjoying the things a lot.
Q. All the adversity that you faced.  It's one thing for somebody in that position to dream about playing the sport again; it's another to return so quickly to an elite level.  Did you ever imagine it would happen so quickly?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: No, no, of course not.  I didn't expect to be in the second week of this tournament.  I didn't expect to got a medal in Rio.  I didn't expect to play at this level in this part of the year.
Of course, I just want to be free with my wrist, trying to play in a good level as I did couple of years ago.  But I think I'm surprised with my level at the moment.  I'm surprising the guys on tour, my colleagues.
That's great because I'm seeing I can be dangerous in the future once again.
Q. Was there ever a point when you thought, Maybe I'll get back, and that will be enough, maybe never return to the level I was at?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, for me it's enough just being playing tennis again.  My biggest goal for this season is trying to finish healthy.  Then, if I could do that, for the next years I will make another challenges to myself.
But now I'm doing well.  I don't care about ranking numbers or whatever.  I just want to keep playing even better.
Q. Your slice is giving players a lot of trouble.  Did you deliberately improve it knowing it would need to be important when you came back?  Is this improvement from hitting so many slices while you were off?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, I would like to play my backhand as I hit my forehand.  But sometimes could be a good tactic, play different shots with my backhands.  But in the end I need to hit harder because I need to make winners with my backhands.
Basically if I'm still winning, then my opponents will be tougher than today.  Of course, I cannot take an advantage with my backhand.  I need to play 100% with all my shots.
Q. You said a few moments ago that you're very surprised at the level, what you did at the Olympics, being in the second week here.  How do you think you've done it?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Working hard.  I never give up.  I trust on myself.  I trust on my doctors, my team, my physical trainers.  I know how hard should I work to be in this moment now.  I know how can I get better in the future if I still working hard.  That's it.  Nothing magic, nothing strange.  Just work hard.
Q. Next round you play Dominic Thiem.  There are people who consider you the favorite.  Do you consider yourself the favorite?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: No.  No, he could be the favorite, for sure.  But all depends on my physically, on my body, on my game.  If I play like this today, I will maybe have chance to do a great match against him.
But he's playing really well.  He's very dangerous.  His backhand is so good.  His movements are really fast.  Will be interesting match for me.
Q. David said before that you seem to be playing more aggressive, you have a bigger serve, more aggressive with the forehand.  Is this just a change in your game from years of maturity or a response because of your troubles?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, I have to do that because I don't have a good backhand yet (smiling).  That's what I'm trying to play aggressive with my forehands, with my serves, trying to come into the net more often than years ago.  I'm trying to find a different way to play as I did in the past.
But also I'm working hard to get my backhands back as soon as possible.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT