SHANGHAI ROLEX MASTERS
October 13, 2013
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. DJOKOVIC/J. Del Potro
  6‑1, 3‑6, 7‑6 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   It was a very exciting match, a tight one in the end.   Talk about your thoughts of what the difference was.   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Well, the match was really close and I think Nole plays an unbelievable points in the tiebreak.   We make good, long rallies at 3‑2 in the tiebreak.   He was lucky 'cause he hit a backhand that touched the net.   Well, then he was 4‑2.   He comes to the net, make good points.   He make the difference playing the tiebreak.   
But, as you said, the match was so exciting.   In Wimbledon we play another fantastic match against each other.   I think the crowd enjoying a lot.   
   
 Q.   How difficult is the this loss, given how well you were playing yesterday?   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   It's a really bad lost for me now.   I just finished the match, play in a final against Djokovic.   I was really close to beat him after beating Nadal.   
I think when you do everything to win and you keep trying every single moment of the match, you try found a way to play aggressive, to make winners with forehands, backhands, the opponent play better, you don't have too much to say or to do.   
I mean, the match was really close all the time.   But in the end he play better points than me on tiebreak.   He took the match.   
   
 Q.   You had a little bit of a slow start.   What do you think was the reason?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Well, I didn't serve really well.   Nole was playing too fast in the beginning.   I made some mistake with my forehands, some double‑faults.   I lost very quick the first set.   
But I was lucky in the second one because I broke very early.   The crowd helped me because they want to watch a longer match, for sure.   I be ready for fight and play my game as I did yesterday against Nadal.   I think I play another really good match.   But today I lost.   
   
 Q.   You beat Nadal yesterday.   You took Djokovic to a tiebreak in the third set today.   You're No.5 in the world now.   Do you think your level is the highest it's been now since you won the US Open?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I think I'm playing even better than many years ago.   I got good things on my career this year.   I couldn't win a Grand Slam like I did in 2009, but I reach finals in the 1000 Masters.   I already win three tournaments.   I beat the top guys, which is fantastic for me.   
I think I'm playing even better than 2009 or 2008 or last year.   That's important.   That's a good thing for the future.   I'm still having the same goal which is getting closer to the top guys.   If I still working like this, I hope I can be there one day.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel at this point that you've brought yourself to the level where, like Novak and Rafa, that every tournament you enter you are considered one of the four or five favorites?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I think they are still the favorites for each tournament.   But I believe on myself.   I'm very confidence.   I'm very pleased with my level.   I'm very honest with me.   I think if I'm healthy and if I play like today or yesterday, I will have the chance to play good battles like we did today.   
I love this sport.   I love playing these kind of matches, even if I lose.   But I will try in the next opportunity change the result and be happy after the match.   
   
 Q.   You had good performances in Tokyo and Shanghai this year.   Can you talk about your experience in Asia.   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, I'm so happy with my two tournaments in Asia.   I really enjoyed these two weeks.   I met many fans who are cheering for me during all year, and I didn't see them for three years.   
I think the tournaments are improving year by year.   I'm so glad to enjoy, to be part of this big show, reach finals.   Win tournaments, of course, is much better.   But I will try to come year by year because I really enjoy this time playing in Asia.   
   
 Q.   In the awards ceremony, Djokovic called you his friend.   Can you talk about how close the friendship is between you and him.   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Now we are not too close (laughter).   
He's another great guy.   We have a good relationship.   What I say on court, I'm happy to him winning this tournament, doing so well every time of the year.   He deserve to be in the top positions.   His team are nice with me, too.   
In the end that's a matter of who wins.   The most important things is having good friends on tour, play fair like we did today.   I think all the people likes much these kind of things than if you win or if you lose.   
   
 Q.   If you were to sit back and look at yesterday and today, what do you think is the one element that you need to do to start beating the top players?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I was close to beat Nole.   Sometimes they make difference because they are too good.   I was close to do it.   But in the tiebreak he play unbelievable points.   I think I only made one forehand mistake in all the tiebreak.   He really beat me playing the tiebreak.   You don't have nothing to do against this.   
I will try to improve my mentally, my game, in important moments.   Yesterday when I had the serve to close the match against Nadal, I did perfect, which is a highest moment to keep calm.   I did really well.   
Today, Nole deserved to win.   That's it.   
   
 Q.   What are your expectations about the tournament in London?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Well, I'm so exciting to be there.   I say before, it's a fantastic tournament.   I'm going to be part of eight players fighting for the same goal.   I think it's like a gift for me because I did so well this season, missing good tournaments, missing important points, but still I'm going to be there also.   
I'm almost to the top four maybe if I'm still doing well in this tournament.   I think it's a big chance to close a fantastic year.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT