SHANGHAI ROLEX MASTERS
October 12, 2013
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. DEL POTRO/R. Nadal
  6‑2, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Have you ever played better in your life?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yes, I think so.   I play well today.   I also couldn't play even better in some moments of the match.   I didn't serve too fast today.   I didn't make too many aces for playing against the No.1 in the world.   That's what I need tomorrow against Djokovic.   I need to win easy points with my serves.   Hopefully my forehands and backhands work like today in the finals.   I'll be aggressive like today.   
I played so solid all the time, hitting so hard the ball.   I saw Rafa playing very far of the baseline, which is good for my game, for my serve, and confidence.   That's the way to beat this guy.   
   
 Q.   When you hand the No.1 player in the world a defeat 6‑2, 6‑4 like that, does it make you think why can't you be No.1 yourself someday?   Is this something that gives you that much confidence?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   What I say before:   not many players has the chance to beat them.   I always believe on myself.   I always believe on my game.   It could be my biggest challenge of my career, getting closer to the top positions.   
But also I am very clear they are playing so solid for a year, and I played good tournaments.   I think there is the difference between the top guys and me or the rest of the players.   I have to be playing in this level for many, many tournaments in a row, or in important tournaments.   There is more points than other tournaments.   If you do well in a 1000 Masters or Grand Slam, is the only chance to get closer to going up in the ranking.   
   
 Q.   You looked to be hitting the ball very, very hard today.   Do you have 100% confidence in your wrist now?   Are you ever thinking that you might injure it again?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yes, I think I hit 100% my backhand.   I remember the match against him in Indian Wells.   I played too many slices because my wrist.   Today I feel 100% physically.   That's what I need against these players.   My backhand is starting to work good again.   I feeling confidence with my wrist.   That's important because I can use all my shots.   
   
 Q.   Was the backhand the biggest problem after you came back from your wrist injury?   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I couldn't hit so hard.   I should play slices when I have the chance to make a winner.   Today I play all the time a topspin backhand, find a way to make winners, coming to the net all the time.   Is much better for me because I have the opportunity to make winners with other shots.   Also I save energy for the match.   
   
 Q.   Yesterday you told us at this moment Rafa is unbeatable.   Today you beat him.   Before stepping onto the court, how do you persuade yourself he's actually beatable?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, I mean, he's unbeatable for I think 99% of the players.   I also say no many guys has the game to beat him.   Only Djokovic or Murray, Federer.   Also there is players like Berdych, Tsonga or me which, if we are in a good day like I be in today, we have the opportunity to beat this guy.   
But, I mean, the other guys can beat him many tournaments in a row, and I only beat him today.   I don't know if the next tournament I will be playing at the same level.   
   
 Q.   For Federer, Rafa or Djokovic, Shanghai is a lucky place for them.   How about you today?   How meaningful is it for you?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Well, means a lot.   I beat Rafa after four years I think, what is important for myself.   I also qualify for London Masters.   It's amazing close the year playing in London with the other seven guys.   
Always when you beat the No.1 player of the world, it feels something special on your mind, my feelings.   My team feels unbelievable things.   My family, friends.   I mean, it's one moment so good to explain with words.   I'm so happy, so exciting to enjoy a little bit this match.   
I know I have not many hours to be ready for the final against Djokovic.   
   
 Q.   Do you still miss your mom?   You have to stay here longer.   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I'm getting better, so I don't miss her too much now (laughter).   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT