SHANGHAI ROLEX MASTERS
October 11, 2013
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. DEL POTRO/N. Almagro
  6‑3, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How are you feeling, first of all, after the fever?   And talk about the match a little bit. 
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yes, I'm feeling much better.   I don't have any fever, which is good.   I'm recovering very slow.   It's take a few days to feel hundred percent.   But I'm in a good way. 
It doesn't worry me for play, like I wanted.   I play very well today, very solid.   I play aggressive.   I hit my forehand very well.   I like the way of my game today. 

Q.   You're back in the top five in the rankings.   Do you feel closer now to the very top players ‑ Djokovic, Nadal and Murray ‑ do you feel closer to them now than you have in three years?   At what point do you start to feel like you can contend at the majors again?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yes, I felt close to them in some part of the year, some matches during this year, like in Wimbledon, or when I beat Djokovic, Murray in Indian Wells.   In that moment I felt really close. 
But they are still making difference.   I mean, they have too much points from them to me.   It's really tough to get in closer on the ranking. 
But I think is not important.   Thing is to improve my game.   If I'm playing this way in this tournament, I will be closer very soon. 
But anyway, I am not looking the ranking or my position at the moment.   I just want to keep improving, to keep going far in this tournament. 
I'm doing well at the moment.   Could be fantastic for me if I'm finish the year top five, top six, playing the Masters in London, and looking forward for the next season. 

Q.   This year you have already defeated Andy Murray, Djokovic, and David Ferrer.   You had a win over Federer.   You haven't gotten a win over Rafael Nadal for a while.   Why is he so tough to handle for you?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, Rafa is playing an unbelievable tennis this year ‑ and the past years, too.   I mean, not many players can beat him.   If we have a little chance to play a good match against him in this kind of surface...   But at this moment, he's a fantastic player on indoors court or hard court.   He can win on any surface. 
Maybe years ago if we coming to play in grass or indoors, the match could be, I mean, I don't know exactly the word, but you maybe has the little chance to win.   But at this moment, Rafa is unbeatable.   Maybe Djokovic or Murray or many other players has to play hundred percent.   You have to have a perfect day with Rafa.   We'll see how it's going. 

Q.   Last year you missed the Asian swing.   This year you won in Tokyo and you're in the semifinal here.   Are you surprised for your success here this year?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yes, I'm surprise about the improvement of the tournament.   I came the last time in three years.   This tournament, Tokyo tournament, is growing up very fast.   They improving year by year.   I'm very enjoying this week also. 
If you win, everything is easier.   Everything is good.   I'm playing good tennis in this surface, very far away from my home.   I'm feeling good.   I'm looking forward to play a good match tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT