U.S. OPEN
August 30, 2013
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 L. HEWITT/J. Del Potro
      6‑4, 5‑7, 3‑6, 7‑6, 6‑1 
  
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Describe the feeling to play your number one hero, Lleyton Hewitt.   
    JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   It's special, but just before the match, when we go to the court, never think about my opponents.   I just try to play my game, to feel good myself.   
    I think tonight was a really tough battle for both, but in the end he play better.   He play impressive.   The tiebreak on the fourth set he made a very good passing shots.   
    I mean what I say before:   he's a great champion and a great fighter.   For the second round, it's a really difficult player.   
   
 Q.   Is a little part of you happy to see him win?  
    JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Of course not, but I wish all the best.   I like when he's winning and when he's doing well, he's healthy.   He play like he has a chance to go far in this tournament.   
    Of course, I wish all the best to him.   I have a good relationship.   He's a very good player to play, and that's it.   
   
 Q.   What made the difference for you tonight?   
    JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I don't know.   I think I was lucky in the second set to come back.   I won the second, the third.   In the fourth, both play really well.   
    In the tiebreak I made a good forehands, good backhands, and he made fantastic passing shots to win the tiebreak.   I think he deserve to play the fifth.   
    I made some efforts, some double‑faults in important moments, and he was there taking all the chance.   Like he play really, really good.   
   
 Q.   Do you think you were getting a little tired at the end of the match or it wasn't that at all?  
    JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   No, it's not excuse.   I was trying until the end.   I served deuce to the wide and he made a fantastic return.   Then I made double‑fault.   I think he deserve to win tonight.   
   
 Q.   We noticed you were slicing your backhand quite a bit.   How was the wrist?  
    JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Well, the wrist is not the way what I like, but what I say is not excuse.   Now I have a few days to rest, to fix my wrist again, then see in which tournament I will play next.   
    But I think Lleyton found a way to beat me, and he's a really good win.   
   
 Q.   When you're in a match like this, it doesn't go your way, do you ever think about expressing some anger, yelling at somebody or yourself?   Does that ever help you in a match?  
    JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   No.   I mean, there were my team, my coach, his friends trying to help me all the time, cheering for me.   But I was playing, not them.   
    And anyways, I've been positive all the time.   And I'm not angry now.   A little sadness, but is normal.   I just finished the match.   Is my favorite tournament and I go home tomorrow.   That's the worst part of this sport.   
    But when you play against these guys and they deserve to win, you cannot do nothing.   
   
 Q.   The last two tournaments, unfortunate ends to both matches in a double‑fault.   Anything different you're doing with your serve?   Is it just nerves?   How do you explain it?  
    JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I don't know.   I will practice my serve (smiling).   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT