WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 17, 2013
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. ISNER/J. Del Potro 
  6‑7, 7‑6, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.  
   
 Q.   Juan, that was a tough double fault on match point.   Do you think that was maybe where the match turned?   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, I think so.   I think there wasn't much in the second set.   I had my chance to beat him in the second.   Serving for the match, I made too many errors for these kind of matches.   
And then in the end, he was fighting all the time.   I think he deserves to win in the third set, but I missed my chance in the second set, and I'm very disappointed for that.  
   
 Q.   Did the double fault like, in terms of the errors after that, did it play on your mind a little bit?   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yes, yes, but I don't‑‑ I'm not use that for excuse.   He played better than me in the third set.   
He has the chance to beat me, he did very well, and he made good serves, good forehands, and I had the chance to beat him in the second one, but I couldn't close the match.   
   
 Q.   In spite of the double fault, you still fought off quite a few set points in the tiebreaker.   So did that give you a good feeling that you were able to keep fighting through that?   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, yeah, I'm always trying to keep fighting on the court, but he broke me very early in the third one.   It was tough to play a match serving with the down score.   And having the match point in the second set against Isner, he never missed a serve.   
You know, it's tough.   I couldn't close the match, and that's it.   When he got a chance, he did very well.   I'm proud of him.   He's a nice guy, nice player.   He deserved to be in the final.  
   
 Q.   What do you think were the biggest differences between this match and the one in Washington?   The one in Washington was very fast.   This one was a lot slower.   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, but whether it was slow or fast, I think I couldn't win the set.   I made too many errors for a semifinal against Isner.   I need to practice harder to improve.  
   
 Q.   Nine double faults is quite a lot.   I noticed that you had some problems with the ball toss, especially on one of the sides, maybe because of the sun.   Was there any physical aspect that actually prevented you from serving better?   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   No.   I think I made the double fault in the worst moment of the match.   
That was the key, I think.   If I did double fault in the beginning of the match or in the third set, it wouldn't matter.   But serving for the match and I made double fault, it was the worst moment of the match to do it, and I did today, like a very young player in that moment, and he take the chance to come back in the match.  
   
 Q.   How do you feel physically going to New York?   You had problems with the back in Montreal.   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   No, but I will be okay.   I have ten days, around ten days to get ready, and New York is my favorite tournament.   It's going to be another chance for me to go far.   
Anyways, I think I did a good tournament here, reaching the semifinals once again, and my game is improving.   I'm looking forward to the last tournament of the year.  
   
 Q.   So you're feeling positive leaving from this very tough loss, going into New York for the Open?   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Not now.  
   
 Q.   Not right now?   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   But tomorrow, I will try to be positive.  
   
 Q.   Juan, were you surprised as to how well John returned your serve today?   Got a lot of returns back, it seems.   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, like I say before, his game's on the rise.   He's improving a lot, and he's moving fast.   He has experience, of course, and he's a really tough opponent for us.   
His serves are unbelievable, and nobody wants to play against him.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT