WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 16, 2013
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. DEL POTRO/D. Tursunov
  6‑4, 3‑6, 6‑1 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Juan Martin.  
   
 Q.   Juan, there have been a couple of reports that you're dealing with maybe some left wrist issues again.   Is that the case?   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, it's bother me a little bit, but not too much.   Trying to play a slices and play different shots in this tournament before the US Open to see how different I can play against the top guys or doing different things.   
I'm okay.   My knee is okay too, and that's important looking forward to New York.  
   
 Q.   Is that kind of similar to what you were going through in Indian Wells, or is it maybe less severe?   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yes, something similar, but nothing dangerous.   I'm always in contact with my doctor; he's taking care of me all the time.   
I'm a lucky guy now.  
   
 Q.   Juan Martin, you had a pretty solid win today, obviously.   Just a slight hiccup in the second, I guess.   What do you make of today's match?   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, I made a double fault on my forehand serving 4‑3, and then I lost really quickly the set.   But in the end, I play solid again.   
I found the breakpoint, one earlier in the than the other one in the end of the match.   But I served well.   I made many aces.   I'm looking forward to tomorrow.   That's what I need to do against Isner or Djokovic.  
   
 Q.   It's possible in that in next week's rankings you could pass Federer for the first time.   Would that mean anything to you?   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   It's strange, but I'm not checking the rankings.   Just are numbers, and I'm trying to go over here and do a good tournament and in the US Open, of course.   
We are fighting for a place in London, ands that the most important for us.  
   
 Q.   Why would it be strange?   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Be up above Federer is strange.   Always Federer are in the top four positions, No.1, No.2.   Could be strange, of course.   
But, I mean, the important thing is just the other ranking, the champion race, and be looking for the Masters.  
   
 Q.   You were in the semifinals here last year.   What does it mean to you to get back again, and what do you remember from last year?   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Maybe I have the same semifinals against Djokovic this year.   But in the semifinals in the Masters, all the players are here and they are playing so well.   It's the last tournament for me before the US Open, so it means a good thing for close my preparations to get there.   
I will try to play better than today, then see if I can reach my third final here in Cincinnati.  
   
 Q.   Juan, what do you make of news yesterday about Marion Bartoli retiring?   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, it was incredible.   I think she won at the Wimbledon, and I think nobody's expected the decision.   Of course, I have a good relationship with her.   I will miss her around the tour.   
But I wish all the best for her for the new life, you know.   If she felt that decision, I will support that.  
   
 Q.   Have you ever thought about just suddenly retiring one night?   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Me?  
   
 Q.   Yeah.   Can you imagine ever doing that?   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   No, but I remember Roddick did something similar last year during the US Open.   He came to the press conference after one match‑ or before the tournament, I don't remember‑ but nobody was expecting that decision too.   
I don't know what I'm going to do to express my retirement, but it's not the time yet.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT