U.S. OPEN
September 2, 2016
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
J. DEL POTRO/S. Johnson   
7-6, 6-3, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Obviously you're a past champion here.  Are you ever surprised at how much support you get from the crowd here not being an American player?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, I feel that for sure.  The people with me are making crazy, and I cannot believe that.  I think they are proud to see me playing tennis again after all my surgeries.  They know what has been through to get here to come back on tennis.   
That's amazing when I get into the court and the people likes just to see me.  I'm having great days at the US Open.   
 Q.  What was the key to winning tonight?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I think I serve much better than my first-round match.  I played focusing on the important moments of the game.  I played great at the tiebreak.  At the end I saw him physically little tired, so I took all my chances to close the match in three sets.  I did much better than my first round.   
 Q.  The first set was very close.  What was your mindset in the second set?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Nothing.  Just trying to keep there and never give up.  I did a good job with my serves during all game.  I had a few breakpoints at the first set of the match, and I couldn't take it.  Then in the second one, I did very, very often.   
I think when you see your opponent little tired, you must take all the chances.  That's what I did today.   
 Q.  You had a lot of support throughout the match.  They were singing.  Does it surprise you that you can get that kind of sport against an American in America?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: That could be strange for you guys.  But I like when I heard these songs to me.  It's like a soccer stadium when they make something like that.  I really enjoy it with the fans around the world when that's happens.   
It's amazing for me having this love from there.  I just want to show my tennis as I did in the past.  And hopefully I can go far to keep winning matches.   
 Q.  I know you're in the middle of the tournament here, but can I ask you about Davis Cup against Britain.  Do you want to play in that tie?  Have you spoken to your captain about it?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yes, yes, I am still waiting to be decided for being there.  I would like to go to Glasgow.  Hopefully I can play better than here in that semifinal because it's very important for me, for my team.   
Of course, I want to be prepared for that challenge.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT