WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2013
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. Del POTRO/J. Levine
  6‑2, 7‑6, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   How would you describe your game today?   I don't think you look comfortable today.   You tell me.   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Well, we have different sensations.   I think I play much better than the first round.   Basically in the end of the match I was serving hard and I made a lot of winners with my forehand.   That's the way that I want to play this tournament.   
Sometimes it is not easy because the opponent are very good, as well.   But today I think I play a good game.   That's give me confidence for after tomorrow in my third round.   
   
 Q.   Now that we don't have Federer and Nadal, do you see yourself somehow going to the finals?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   But you have Djokovic, Murray and different other names.   This is strange, see the draw, Federer and Nadal not there.   It's not unusual, but sometimes can happen, like in this tournament.  
I think Stakhovsky and Darcis made very good matches against them and they deserved to win.   In this surface, all the players are difficult.   If you have a good serve, you are focused in the special moments of the match, you can beat all the players.   
   
 Q.   You said as you came off court that you like to play on grass very much.   Not very many people from your country say this.   Why is it in your case that you like it?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, I like more than years ago.   I'm improving my game on grass.   I remember when I was junior, I came here and I lost really easy.   I say, I will never play good tennis on grass.   
But I learn to playing here.   My coach teach me good things for the grass courts.   My game also can be a dangerous game for the opponents.   That's what I did today and I did in the past, also in the Olympics and Wimbledon last year.   
I play aggressive.   The players who play very, very aggressive, they go far and they have chance to win.   
   
 Q.   You appeared a little surprised when Levine upped his game in the second set.   Did it surprise you?   You were so dominant in the first.   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, little bit.   But I made some efforts and I didn't play like the first set or the beginning of the match.   That's why he improved his game.   
But I was lucky to survive on the second set.   I think in the end I play much better.   My serve works really well.   
   
 Q.   You just used the word 'aggressive.'   On court when we see you play, there's no aggression.   Looks like you're just walking backward and forward.   Your style can be frustrating to the opponent.   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah?   
   
 Q.   Yes.   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   But I can't run between points.   I need to walk.   
   
 Q.   But no aggression.   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   If I be aggressive to my opponent, they will pull me out.   
   
 Q.   Towards the end of the match today you seemed to be really getting your length with your serve and forehand.   How far away are you from your very best tennis at the moment?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I think I'm improving my game day to day.   I was like two months out after Rome to here.   It's not easy come back and feel 100%.   
But I'm improving day to day.   I play much better than my first round.   I'm looking forward for the third round after tomorrow.   I will practice very hard tomorrow, my serve, some forehands.   Also for the second part of the year, I'm very confidence with myself and I will try to do my best.   
   
 Q.   How is tennis in your country?   Are you the only one that plays tennis in your country?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   No.   You know Monaco?   
   
 Q.   Yes.   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   He's playing as well.   
   
 Q.   So how is it seen in your country?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   No, I think tennis in our country is very big.   Many kids are playing.   They follow tennis.   They follow us in these tournaments.   
It's not like soccer, but it's a big sport.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT