WIMBLEDON
June 25, 2013
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. DEL POTRO/A. Ramos
  6‑2, 7‑5, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How did you feel the match went today? 
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I feel okay for be my first round against a lefty player.   I think I play okay.   I made some many, many efforts in the end of the second, and he took the chance to survive in the second set.
But in the end I broke his serve again.   In the third I play much better, trying to do my game, be aggressive all the time.
I think it was a good match for first time. 

Q.   Also, Rafa Nadal went out yesterday.   What kind of opportunity does that present to you? 
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Well, I think Darcis play a really good match against Rafa.   That's the tennis about today.   The level of the tennis is very high, and all the players can beat the top 10 players, the top 4, the top 5.
If you don't have a good day, you can lose with everybody.   I think I have to do my own draw.   I am going match by match and then see if I have chance to go far.

Q.   And you're playing in an era where there are sort of three dominant men.   You managed to win a Grand Slam.   How do you go on and win another in this era?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I knew after three or four years they are win every Grand Slam, the same players, the same persons.   It's really difficult break that name on the big tournaments. 
But of course I'm trying.   I like to play the Grand Slam.   They are longest tournaments, and you can play maybe a bad match and survive and that gives confidence for the next rounds.
In the Grand Slam during 15 days, everything can happen.

Q.   Do you feel frustrated at all that you're playing in this era where they are such dominant men?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   No, no, I'm not frustrating.   I think they are playing much better than the rest of the guys basically in the Grand Slam.   They were so regular during every single Grand Slam.
They make a difference between them and the rest of the players in this kind of tournament. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT