BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 16, 2013
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. DEL POTRO/N. Djokovic
  4‑6, 6‑4, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   What was on your mind when you were down 3‑Love in the third set?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   (Shaking head.)   I don't know.   Nothing, just keep fighting and enjoying the semifinals.   I was doing a very good match until the third set, but Novak had the chance to beat me when I was 3‑Love.   
But I come back soon, and that give me a little confidence to come back in that set.  
Then also the crowd want to watch more tennis and help me to play my best tennis in the end, and I think it was my best match in this tournament, for sure.  
   
 Q.   You also came back from losing the first set against Murray yesterday.   Looking back at that, did that memory help you come back today?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   No, no, I never think about my yesterday match.   Djokovic is completely different player.   He's the No. 1 and always is a big challenge against him.  
I was so close to lose because he got the chance to beat me, but I think I got lucky in very important moments, very important points when I made a fantastic winners on my forehands.   
Also good aces, and that's help me to go through.  
   
 Q.   Did the time violation actually make you concentrate a little more?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I was expecting the time violation.   
   
 Q.   You were?   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, because I took too much time before the last point.   But Mohammed told me before, so...   
   
 Q.   So you knew it was coming?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, yeah, I knew.   So this time it was okay.  
   
 Q.   Your backhand slice was particularly good.   You used it yesterday and you used it today.   Can you talk about that shot and how effective it was for you?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, I use it a lot, because that help me to play more aggressive with my forehand and trying to do different things.   That help me to beat Murray yesterday; today Nole.  
I don't know if I'm going to use tomorrow against Rafa because he's lefty and he move really, really fast in the baseline.  
But what I know about him is playing more aggressive than today, trying to make a few winners with my forehands, coming a lot to the net, and I need to serve well also.  
   
 Q.   What allowed you to turn the match around?   What was the point that you felt helped you turn it?   Was it the crowd?   Was it you?   Novak said he felt he didn't deserve to win the match even at that stage.   What do you think was...   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I think was really close match.   I go 3‑Love down, and then I was close to go to 4‑3 and playing very good tennis.   Nole also was playing well, but I think I was aggressive all the time.   
He couldn't do what he likes like in Dubai, you know, and that was because of my game, you know.   I'm trying to hit hard with my forehands.   When I have the chance to come to the net, I did all the time.   And on my serve, I was just focus to put it in my first serve and move to my forehands, trying to make winners.  
   
 Q.   How are you feeling physically?   It was a pretty demanding three‑set match against Murray.  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, also the weather was...  
   
 Q.   And then tomorrow.   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   The weather was really, really hot for both.   But I have the night for recovery.   I would like to enjoy the finals, for sure and then be ready.   He's a big challenge for me also, but I know I'm going to play against Rafa.  
He will win want to win this tournament, for sure, and it's going to be very interesting match.  
   
 Q.   With these back‑to‑back wins over Murray and Djokovic now, do you buy this notion at all?   People are talking about the Pope a lot, obviously and about Messi obviously and this being a year for Argentina.   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   You think it's about the Pope?  
   
 Q.   Do you feel there is some good energy around Argentina maybe helping you?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   (Smiling.)   I don't know.   I don't know why or‑‑ but, yeah, you can say what you like because the Pope has come in and then I beat Murray, Djokovic.   Could be something, but I don't think so.  
I talk a lot about the Pope yesterday and the days ago.   I would like to enjoy my moment, the finals tomorrow, and then I will need be ready for tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Do you think you are closer to your level of 2009?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Four years ago, I don't remember.   (Smiling.)  
But I am playing well.   The results show my level, and of course I feel some things to improve on my game like I am doing here, using the slices.   Also would like to come more often to the net.  
But I'm working on that.   Every tournament is a chance to do it.   I think I'm doing well here in Indian Wells.  
   
 Q.   Did the fact that the final part of the matches both yesterday and today were played in the shade when the court was already in the shade ‑ because you looked quite tired on 3‑2 and played really long rallies ‑ and then you had a lot of energy to come in with your forehand?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, of course.   Change a lot when the shadows come and cover all the court, you know.   But was in the end.   Only the last game was completely covered.   But tomorrow is gonna be early the final, and I'm going to see the shadow, for sure.   
   
 Q.   What do you have to do tomorrow to win?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Everything perfect.   (Smiling.)  
Everything perfect.   It's the final against Rafa.   For sure I need to play better and better every day.   All finals are special to play.   
Also when you play the top guys, they are the favorites, but I will try to do my game like just like today and then see if Rafa give me a little chance to win.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT