BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 15, 2013
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. DEL POTRO/A. Murray
  6‑7, 6‑3, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   You beat for the first time Andy Murray on hard court.   That's a big win, obviously. 
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, of course.   I was close to beat him in 2009 in Montreal finals, but I did today.   I played my best match of the tournament.   I was positive all the time, even when I lost the first set, tough first set.
But in the end, I play my game.   I be aggressive all the time, I'm hitting all the time hard the ball with my forehands, and I play a few slices as well and dropshots.   I think I did a very good game today.

Q.   What keeps you positive in this match?   You played well against Haas.   Is it confidence from past matches?   Is it the Pope?   (Laughter.)
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I don't know what happened, but I think I improve in my game match by match.   Against Tommy Haas I play well, but today I played better.   On basically the second set and the third set I was serving really, really well, and that's what I need for big confidence with my forehands and the rest of my game.
Of course beating Murray or the top guys is something special for me, and I'm so glad.

Q.   You're very powerful, but you were playing steady, very consistent throughout the match, no? 
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, I think I played very solid.   Trying to make winners when I had the chance with my forehands.   I was calm every time and playing slices, trying to see very clearly the ball when I had the ball in my forehands to do the winners, and I save a few break points.
That was important for me to still up in the match.   In the end, I think I play my best tennis of the week.

Q.   You said you were using your slice quite a bit.   Was that tactical against Murray, or is your wrist okay?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, both, both things.   I use it because my coach told me that, and thanks to him, you know. 
But tomorrow against Nole I will need to play better than today.   I remember the match in Dubai I was close to win the second set, but he takes all the chances to beat me.   He's the No. 1.   You never know if he give to you a little chance to win, you know. 

Q.   I know it was a different surface and it was a different time, but how much will you take away from the Olympic bronze medal match when you played Novak?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Well, that match was very special for me.   Then we play in Cincinnati, in the US Open, and Dubai, and he beat me all the time.
But I think that the most important matches I beat him, for sure.   But all matches are close with him.   He already beat me in Dubai in two sets, very close two sets. 
Tomorrow I need to play better than today.   Basically if I have a very close match like the first set as today, they don't give us opportunities.   So we need to be very focused on that chances and trying to take.

Q.   You had that fabulous win in NewYork and then the terrible injury.   Could you just talk about this time that you have been back on the tour now where you have had many great wins but not another huge breakthrough.   Could you just talk about your feelings about this period of your career?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, I'm feeling so happy to be playing tennis again, and I think I go through another big moment in my career when I got the bronze medal.
I don't know if it's big like win a Grand Slam, but for me and for my country and for myself, for my game, was too big, as well. 
I'm in the semifinals in a big tournament.   Last year I made semis in Masters in London.   I beat Roger.   I beat Djokovic after my comeback in the Davis Cup.   I think I am fit, and that's important for me, for myself. 
But I'm doing very good career.

Q.   Physically how are you feeling?   How is your wrist?   100%?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, I'm okay.   I'm getting closer to be 100%.

Q.   Are you going to be seeking an audience with the Pope?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah.   Well, what I say before, Nicola, he's doing the job to meet him in Rome, maybe.   (Laughing.) 
THE MODERATOR:   (Pretending to text Pope Francis.) (Laughter.) 

Q.   Did you do any change with the two‑handed backhand because of the wrist?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I'm trying to not change anything, but sometimes when I feel something I play slices or different way of my backhand.   But I'm trying to don't change a lot, because when I get the okay my wrist, I will need to hit my backhand as I hit before.   If I change my tennis it will be worse for me.

Q.   You had some bad luck with the challenges early on.   Have you ever run out of challenges that early in a set before?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   No, I think it's my first time.   I don't know what's happen, but the umpire and the linesman, they show perfect and it was my mistakes. 
It's not easy play without challenge, you know.   You feel like nervous all the time and you have to trust in the umpire all the time.   You cannot do nothing. 
But I had luck to close the match in the last game when he's double fault, and also he didn't ask for the challenge so was good.

Q.   When you miss that many, is it ever funny to you or just frustrating?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   No, it's frustrating, for sure.   Yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT