BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 13, 2013
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. MARTIN DEL POTRO/T. Haas
  6‑1, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   That looked like a particularly good performance today.   One of your best for a little while, maybe?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, yeah, I think it was my best match of the tournament, for sure.   I played so solid on the baseline, trying to hit hard the ball with my forehand.  
I served well, and that's what I need to play against Murray in the next round.   Be aggressive all the time and find the lines with my forehands and serves.  
   
 Q.   What would you say your form is like at the moment?   Not just today, but...   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I'm still having some feelings on my wrist, but nothing dangerous.   I have tomorrow to recover it, to do my treatments, and then be ready for Friday.  
If I'm still going in this way, improving a little day by day, maybe I will be in good form on Friday.  
   
 Q.   Talk a little about playing Andy and that matchup.   You have had a few interesting matches in the past.   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, of course.   Well, now we are much older and ‑‑  
   
 Q.   Wiser?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   ‑‑and smart and we are friends and we have good relationship and we share many things together.  
Of course play against him is a big challenge for me.   He already won the US Open last year, made finals in Australia, and he's doing very fantastic career beating the top guys and fighting for the first position, as well.  
So it's gonna be interesting match for me.  
   
 Q.   What are your thoughts on the new Pope from Argentina?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Well, we are so proud of him.   He's the first Pope from South America, I think.   He's so big for our own country, also.   I wish all the best to him.  
I think he's gonna do his work perfect.   I wish the best for him.   And I'm very Catholic, so I like this new decision.  
   
 Q.   You've been to Rome obviously, the tournament there.   Have you been to the Vatican?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah.   Maybe I will have the chance to meet him in Rome if Nicola do his job.   (Laughter.)  
Q.Can you talk about the role that religion or your faith plays in your performance?   Do you rely on faith to get you through tough situations, or how does it factor in?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   About what?   
   
 Q.   Your faith?   Do you use your faith to help you through tough situations on court or off court?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Well, I'm trying to be calm all the time thinking be positive all the time, and that's help me to play my best tennis in the worstest moment, you know.   
Today I think I play really well, but yesterday I had a few moments really bad for when I was serving, and I need to be calm and positive all the time.  
That things make the difference between the top guys and the rest of the players.  
   
 Q.   Do you know Pope Francis at all?   Are you familiar with him?   He seemed to have a tremendous warmth and intelligence.   Have you ever had any encounters with him or do you know of him?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I don't understand what you mean.  
   
 Q.   The new Pope.   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, yeah.   About the new Pope?   Yeah, what I say.   Maybe I will have the chance to meet him in Rome.  
I don't know what can I say about this.   For me and for our country and for Argentinian people, it's so big.   Was so impressive for us when they mentioned the new Pope and also his name.   I think he deserve to be there, so it's very nice for us.  
   
 Q.   Do you follow women's tennis in Argentina?   Because in Fed Cup Britain is playing Argentina in April.   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, well, they follow a lot Gisela Dulko, but she retired.  
   
 Q.   You don't know the next ones too much?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, I think Ormaechea is doing well.  
   
 Q.   She won a title, I think.   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   First title weeks ago.   She has a good future.   I know her coach.   I know her also, and she's very nice.   She plays well on clay courts, and the clay court is coming soon, so maybe she can do big jump.  
   
 Q.   A lot of singles players have started to play more and more doubles.   Can you talk about your decision not to play doubles as much and what goes into that decision?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Well, I like to play doubles, but in the biggest tournament is not easy if your goal is go far in singles, you know.   
I was trying to play doubles in Rotterdam, but Llodra pulled out for injuries; and here I don't like to play because I want to be focused on my singles.   
And Miami, if I play there and I go bad in singles, I want to have a few days for rest after that tournament before the clay season.  
So it's not easy take a good tournament to play doubles.   But in the past I play a lot with Mardy Fish and other guys.   I like to play doubles, and the next tournament, if I find a good tournament, I will be playing.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT