DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS MEN
March 1, 2013
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. DJOKOVIC/J. Del Potro
  6‑3, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   What are your thoughts on that?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Well, I just finished, you know.   It's tough to say something right now, but, I mean, he deserved to win.   He played so well in the tiebreak.
I was break up in the second set, and I made mistakes.   I lost the calm when I start to discuss with the umpire, and he come back in the second so quick.   I mean, he's the No. 1.   When he feel the chance to improve his game, he always make.   Tonight he play better all the time.

Q.   Do you feel the time violation was unnecessary?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, but now what can I say now?   I mean, we play very long rallies during the match, and he called me the warning before serve a break point down. 
It's very important point for the game, for the match.   Maybe he doesn't know about that, you know. 
I mean, in that moment, if you call warning or if you do something different, you can lose the focus and that's what happen with me.
But was my fault.   I mean, I couldn't manage that.

Q.   Do you think the system is wrong, that the umpire should maybe first just have a quiet word at a changeover, for example?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, yeah.   They are doing like this, you know, first to call the warning.   They let you know or, Please, do quicker, or something.
But I don't have idea tonight.   He just put me the warning.   But, I mean, that's the rule, you know.   The umpire can do whatever he want, and if he want to call me the warning, he can do it. 
I mean, I don't know who made the rule, but we have to play with it.

Q.   But he did not say anything to you before?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   No.   Nothing, no.   That's what I said to him.   I agree for the warning.   It's okay.   No problem.   Maybe you can call me warning, knowing the break point down serving, but let me know before and I will be agree with you 100%.

Q.   Berdych was saying he feels that the umpires have so much power with that kind of setup.   He says maybe if you put a clock on the court it would help.   Are you in favor of something like that?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I mean, we can ‑‑it's difficult to play against the No. 1 in the world, and serving for break point down and the umpire call you a warning, you know, it's not normal, I think. 
They're playing with ‑‑you have different pressures.   You know, the crowd doesn't like if the umpire call me warning in that moment, you know.   You can see tonight what the crowd say, you know. 
I don't know who made the mistake.   Maybe I made the mistake because then I lost the game and I made the very easy effort with my forehand. 
Maybe they can check the rules for the future.   I don't know. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT