U.S. OPEN
August 30, 2016
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J. DEL POTRO/D. Schwartzman
6-4, 6-4, 7-6
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Can you describe what it was like to be out there again in front of a crowd that was cheering so loudly for you?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, that's means big things to myself.  I am so glad to be part of this tournament once again after three years.  I really appreciate the wild card who give me to have the chance to play, and that's important for me.
Always, in every match here at the US Open, the crowd make me feels special.  I really like the atmospheres down there.  They create another things in every court.
It's amazing for me just having the chance to play here once again.
Q. After the Olympics, how long afterward did you still feel tired from the Olympics?  What did you do to try to recover to play here?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, to be honest, I'm still feeling tired, for sure.  I couldn't recovery after Rio because I was at home doing many things, in my hometown as well.  We decide to came here on Tuesday, trying to stay focused in this tournament, because is a big tournament as well.
It's not easy after a big, big challenge like I did in Rio.  But this tournament is very special for me.  I'm trying to keep calm, to keep focuses, and look forward to go far.
Q. Would you say the reception in Argentina was maybe bigger than when you won the US Open?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I think was different because the people in Argentina, in my hometown, they know what has been through to get there after my surgeries.  It was a special moments for me.  They really appreciate what I did to come back on tennis.  They are proud to see me playing tennis again.
I'm very proud to represent my hometown, my country.  It was amazing for me at Rio.
Q. I spoke with Diego Schwartzman.  He said you hadn't played that many games before.  What did you know about his game?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I think he plays well.  In the end he started to play much better than at the beginning of the match.  It was tough to play because it was really, really hot down there.
He's a smart player.  You know, he runs really fast.  I think for this surface, if you don't have a good serve, you couldn't take the chance to win the match.  And that's what I did today.  Basically in the tiebreak I played smart points and I closed the match there.
Q. Last year before your surgery, could you tell us how close you were to quit or retire?  Did you have the time to imagine your life without tennis?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, I was really close to quit tennis because after the first surgery, the second one, and in the end the third one, it was really, really sad moments for me.  Nobody knows what should I have to fix my problem.
My family and friends help me a lot to never give up.  And I think I'm doing well now.  The worst part of my life is totally in the past, and I'm living a good present and looking forward for a good future.
Hopefully I couldn't think what I'm going to do the rest of my life after tennis because now I'm trying to play tennis again.  I would like to do this for a few years.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT