DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS MEN
February 28, 2013
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. DEL POTRO/D. Brands
  6‑4, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   So I guess you're a lot happier than when you played him last time?   Much easier match?   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, yeah.   Looks easy but into the court wasn't easy.   I played really well in the second set, and I take my chance to break his serve in the end of the first set.   He made a few mistakes with his forehand and was a really fast game when he was serving.  
Then I played my game all the time, trying to be focused on my service game.   I don't make any effort in the end of the match.  
   
 Q.   You said on court that your wrist was holding up.   Sounds like you're more happy with the wrist today than you were all week.   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, yeah.   The good thing is I'm not getting worse.   I can hit my backhand often day by day, and it's a good thing for be 100%.   I know against Djokovic tomorrow or Seppi I need to hit my backhand 100% and then see if I have little chance to win.  
But I need to be ready for tomorrow, and I will have the rest of the day to recover in my wrist and do the best what I can.  
   
 Q.   Brands was a big server, and it seems like you neutralized it.   Seems like you stepped up with your serve.   You had a lot of aces.   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, yeah.   I served well today.   I don't have any break points.   I think I take all my chances to break his serves.   Only once in the first set but was because he made mistakes, you know.   I just put the return into the court and then he made the mistake.  
That's help me to win that first set.   And the second also he made two double faults in the end, and I play only one rally and he made the effort again.  
But anyway, Brands has a big serve and he's very dangerous player for this tournament and for all the players.  
   
 Q.   Are you surprised at how easily he gave up his serve at the end of the first set?   He had been very close to you the whole set until that last game.   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I don't know why, because I had the experience about Vienna match.   We made three tiebreak sets, the longest match in the ATP, I think.   
And today he made a few double faults in the important moments, and I took that to break his serves.   I think that was the key.  
   
 Q.   Assuming it is Novak tomorrow, how do you feel about facing the world No. 1?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, it's always pleasure play against Nole, Roger, Rafa, Murray, all the big guys, you know.   And I know I need to be 100% or little more to have the chance to beat him.  
He beat me in London Finals in a big match for me, three sets, very close match.   If I am ready and I'm very solid with my forehands and serve, I know the way to put him risk his game.   Also, he's the No. 1 and he's playing so well this season, and it's going to be a very big chance for me.  
   
 Q.   As the tournament progresses, you're likely to be playing later in the day and maybe into the evening when it's cooler.   Will that affect the tactics you intend to use?   Will that affect your game, you think?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   No, no.   I don't mind playing during the day or night‑session matches.   The crowd is almost full every time.   And I like the court, I like the tournament.   I don't have preference to play any hours.   
But I think tomorrow maybe we will play at night.   Depends of Djokovic match.   But anyway, I am so happy to be playing this tournament and doesn't matter the hour of my match.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT