DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS MEN
February 27, 2013
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. DEL POTRO/S. Devvarman
  6‑4, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   What was the toughest match, against Devvarman or against Maradona?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Of course the first one, but I think I played better than yesterday.   I was solid with my serve, and I don't make few mistakes with my backhand.   On my forehands, when we make the rallies on the baseline, I played solid.   
I don't lose my serve during the match.   That give me confidence for my next match tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   It seems you use a lot of slice in your backhand.   Is that because of the wrist?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, sometimes is because my feelings in my wrist, sometimes because the tactic of the game.   But I always try to make winners with forehands and backhands.   But today wasn't 100% but I won in these conditions, and it's very important for me.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk a little about your opponent today?   He's coming back from injury and didn't play almost a whole year.   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, I know.   It's really, really tough come back after a year without competitions and tournaments.   I know how tough is trying to be back.   
But he deserve to be playing this tournament.   He made everything good to be back, and in the future he's gonna be with a very good ranking, for sure.   He's very solid.   
He play well, and he already beat good, good players in the past so he can do the same in the future.  
   
 Q.   Maybe you can talk about Maradona, how it was for him to come down on the court and to play with him a little bit.   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, it's a pleasure, share moments with Diego.   All the Argentinian people love him, and he's our No. 1 representative on the world in the sports.   You know, to play some balls with him here in this stadium, it's amazing for me.   
He played really well, not like soccer, but he can hit the balls with me.   It was a funny moment for both.   And now we're gonna ‑‑maybe we have dinner or something after showers, and of course being with Diego is an honor.  
   
 Q.   Will this be the first time you go for dinner?   Have you seen him before in Dubai?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   No, I know him from a time ago.   We know each other a lot and I met him many years ago.   We have friends in common.   We know a lot.  
   
 Q.   So any chance he's gonna be your coach in the future or he was joking about that?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   We love to play soccer.   Maybe if I change the sport, he can be a very good coach for me.   
But he's coming to watch tennis.   He loves tennis.   He knows also Federer, Djokovic.   Just watching him in the crowd is amazing for us and for the public, also.  
   
 Q.   Plenty of water to go under the bridge, obviously, but Daniel Brands tomorrow, and then if it goes per script potentially Roger in the semifinals.   But given the way you're hitting the ball this week, you must fancy your chances here and the conditions really suit your aggressive tennis?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I don't know.   I mean, I beat Devvarman today, what is a nice match for me, but tomorrow I need to be stronger basically for return of serves.   He serves so hard, more than 200 kilometers every service, and I need to be strong with my wrist and backhands, trying to put the ball in the other side.   
But if I serve well and if I take my opportunities, maybe I can beat him.  
   
 Q.   Brands has this inside‑out forehand that's just amazing, you know.   Obviously you have a really good one, as well.   Have you ever noticed that?   And what are his strengths?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, I know his game.   He play very aggressive, trying to come into the net all the time.   He makes serves and volleys, as well.   
But I need to play my game, be more aggressive than him, trying to make winners with all my forehands, and maybe the match could be really, really close.   The match can go for both sides, so I need to be focused on that.  
   
 Q.   You admitted yesterday that you were still experiencing pain in your wrist.   I mean, how regularly would you say it affects your play?   Is it sort of every point, every once in a while?   And have you ever thought of maybe altering your stroke production or changing the way you play to...   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, sometimes I need to change my way of the games, and sometimes I get frustration because I can't hit the ball like I want it.  
But I know these conditions.   I already feel same things in the past.   I'm in contact with my doctor, and he give me the confidence to keep playing the tournament.   Of course it's very important tournament for me, and I want to go far.   
But what I say before, I'm not gonna put and risk myself again and don't want to stop for a long while again, so I need to be very smart on that.  
   
 Q.   Bearing in mind there is going to be injury concerns, how much of a relief was it that‑‑ you know, it was a relatively straightforward match compared to yesterday where you were taken to three sets.   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Well, I feel okay.   My wrist is not getting worse after three‑hours match, after this match.   I think I'm going to be the same for tomorrow.   
The good thing is I'm not getting worse for the next days.   But of course I would like to feel 100%, but I will see after this tournament what way can I take to recover my wrist.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT