DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS MEN
February 26, 2013
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. DEL POTRO/M. Baghdatis
  4‑6, 6‑4, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Was it really tough out there? 
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   What do you think?   Of course.   (Laughter.)
Yeah, I was fighting every time of the match.   I play almost three hours, I think, to beat Marcos. 
He's a great player.   He fights like me every point, and we made fantastic rallies.   The crowd was enjoying the game.   I'm so glad to beat him tonight in Dubai.

Q.   What do you think made the difference?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Well, I can't say the difference now because the match was so close, only one tiebreak in the end. 
But he has chance to beat me when he was match point up.   I got lucky in that moment to go through to save with my serves, and forehands, I played like fantastic forehands to keep playing this match.
Then in the end, of course, you need little lucky to win these kind of matches, and I think I played solid in important points in the third.

Q.   How difficult is it to switch from indoor tennis to outdoor tennis?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   The conditions are completely different, but we always do the same schedule.   I did last year and I got good results, so I'm looking forward for this tournament, also. 
But I know 6 of top 10 players are here, so that's mean the tournament is so good, very high level, and is gonna be really difficult for me being in the end of the week.

Q.   You've played a lot of matches this year.   How are you feeling physically?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Well, I'm getting tired a little bit, but it's normal.   I'm trying to keep focus on this tournament because it's very important.   And then to come for Indian Wells and Miami, I need good results here.
But also I have little pains in my wrist.   So I'm not going to put and risk my wrist again.
But it's a lovely tournament.   I'm so happy to be playing here.   I'm going to be ready for my second round tomorrow.

Q.   Is that the same wrist, the same injury you had before?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, what I got in Cincinnati last year.   Then the Davis Cup the same, the same wrist, same problem.
But I spoke with the doctor, and he give me the confidence to play here.   So I'm calm.

Q.   Given how quick the courts are here, do you think that suits your game, the ball coming onto the racquet?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Well, I like this court.   I like to play hard courts. 
But the balls tonight were coming faster because Marcos's game, you know, he play very flat and he's fast on the baseline.   He has a very good backhand down the line, and he played well.
But tomorrow the match is going to be completely different.   Devvarman plays slowly but different, slices, dropshots, so I have to be focused to that and play my game.

Q.   So where was Maradona tonight?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I don't know.   (Smiling.)
I think he's in Italy.   He's in Italy.   He's supposed to come maybe tomorrow or Friday.   Of course it's gonna be a pleasure, share some moments with him.   I know him since some time ago, and always, when you have a few words from him, you get like, Oh, my God.   This meant a lot.

Q.   Did you see the quotes?   He told me last week he wants to coach you this week.   Did you see that? 
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, he can take Federer to coach.   I think he's going to be, in the end of the week, maybe Djokovic/Federer.   But of course, Diego means a lot for the Argentinian people and always be a pleasure just say hi to him or share the moment or a coffee or something.   He's so big, I mean, for all the people, I think. 

Q.   The greatest ever?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, I think so.   Messi is getting closer.   Messi can be bigger than Diego maybe in the future, but they are fighting for a very special place, you know, maybe the best or the most important person of the world, you know.   And they are from Argentina, so I'm so proud for that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT