AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 15, 2013
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. DEL POTRO/A. Mannarino
  6‑1, 6‑2, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about how it feels to get off to a good start with a solid match like this?  
JUAN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, I played really well.   I remember last year when we played the first round also, and he made a better match than today.  
But I think I played really aggressive.   I made a lot of winners with my forehand.   I served well.   I made very good start for this Open.  
   
 Q.   Do you look at your half of the draw?   You're with Federer and Murray.   What do you think about...   
JUAN DEL POTRO:   No, they are so far from me at the moment.   I just looking in my second round, and will be tough match here.   We play fifth sets and matches can be tough for all the players, so I just thinking about my second round.   
Hopefully I can go far, but I need to play better and better.  
   
 Q.   You're the only other guy in the draw who has won a Grand Slam besides those three in the last however many years.   Obviously there are probably people looking at you as a possible going through to the final.   Do you think that for yourself?  
JUAN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, of course.   I'm here trying to do that, but it's not easy.   The last 33 Grand Slams win the same names, the same players.   But I know how tough is win a Grand Slam.   But I know the way to win a Grand Slam, also.   
So I'm trying to do that for this year.   Could be my biggest challenge on this year, win another Grand Slam.  
But they are playing really good tennis, and it's not easy.   
   
 Q.   Do you see an opening now with Rafael Nadal on the sidelines?  
JUAN DEL POTRO:   No, I think the favorites are the same even if Rafa is not here.   If Rafa could be here would be a favorite for sure also.   But Roger, Novak, Andy Murray, and other guys can be the favorites to win the tournament.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT