BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 11, 2012
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. DJOKOVIC/J. Del Potro
  4‑6, 6‑3, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How do you explain it?   Were you tired?   The other day Federer said it's difficult to play three matches in a row for three days, but two days he said should be all right.   Did something physically happen to you or he just came back so strong?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I think nothing happens to me.   Just Nole improve his game basically between in the middle of the second set until the end of the match.   He deserved to win today.   He make the difference.   In the third set, he was close to win the match.
But anyway I think I play really two good first sets today.   But in the end, he make the difference and he's the No.1 in the world.   So if you don't play whole match your best level, it's really difficult to beat him. 

Q.   You mentioned the difference once he raised his game.   Are there a couple of things you could add to your game so you have more options to beat the very best more frequently?   Do you think you have everything you need now in the game to beat them?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, many things.   My volleys, my serves also.   I had the chance to win today when I was break up in the second, but I don't serve like yesterday, and I don't serve like my first set today. 
But was because Nole was returning really well.   I think I don't made too many double‑faults today.   So he make the difference.   He's so good.   Of course, he's the No.1.   In these kind of matches, they make the difference between them and the rest of the players. 
But he deserve to win today.   Anyways, I think I play a really good match. 

Q.   Your love affair with your racquets remind us a little bit of Jimmy Connors.   How many racquets do you have left?   Are the fans giving you racquets?   What is the status on that issue? 
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Well, I wish to have more racquets.   But I have maybe four or five racquets.   But is enough for play.   In indoors court, I change the racquet maybe one time a set. 
But I'm confidence with my racquets.   I'm using this racquet since January 2011.   I'm feeling confidence with these kind of racquets.   But maybe I should change for next year. 

Q.   Given all the problems you had with the wrist and everything, how content are you now ending the year having won a couple of good indoor titles, getting to the semifinal of this event?   What are your thoughts going into 2013 now?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Well, these kind of matches give me illusions for the next season.   I beat Roger yesterday.   I was close to beat Nole today.   But in the end, they are too good for me. 
But I'm getting closer every day.   Maybe could be my big challenge for next year, my big goal, trying to fight all Grand Slams with this group.   You know, they winning all the Grand Slam:   Novak, Federer, Rafa and now Murray.   I would like to be part of that names in the Grand Slams. 

Q.   Your fans in China feel pity you didn't play the Asian swing.   Do you think it helps you in some way because you have enough time to recover and help prepare for the indoor season?   Is it one of the reasons you play so well at the end of the season?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, I had time to recovery my wrist.   I did what my doctors want.   And, of course, I was sad watching the tournaments in China, at home watching TV.   It was really sad for me because I would like to be there. 
But my wrist says, You can't go there, you have to stop.   And now I close the year in very good level.   I been in the four last persons in this tournament, so that's mean a lot for me.   I'm glad with my year. 

Q.   It was your first appearance here since 2009.   How do you summarize the whole week, the atmosphere on court, the matches you had?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Was so nice for me.   All the crowd was full every single match and double matches.   The players love that, you know.   We enjoy when many people come to see our games and enjoying the games. 
I have another big fans from Argentina who came to watch me here.   It's amazing.   I think this tournament is so good to enjoy, and the crowd was fantastic with all the players. 

Q.   Do you think you're actually playing better tennis now than you were in 2009?   If so, do you think the level has actually gone up again at the top of the men's game since then?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I think I'm playing good.   I don't know if I play better or not than 2009.   But being the semifinals in this tournament is so big for me, you know.   It's still Federer, Djokovic, Murray and me.   Was the same four players than the Olympics and in the US Open, the last Grand Slam, was Murray and Djokovic in the final.   So that big names are every big tournaments.   Sometimes I can be part of them. 
It's going to be my big challenge for the next year. 

Q.   Can you talk a little bit about momentum.   How do you carry this momentum into the next year when you also have a break?   Is momentum physical or mental?   Does it depend on matches and matches and matches in a row? 
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Now is time to rest.   I play lot of matches this season, like Federer, Novak.   After here, we need a good rest to be ready for next season. 
The tournaments this year was really close between the Olympics and the end of the year.   We don't have too many times to take rest between tournaments.   But now we have a little break ‑ longer than last season. 
We try to take that form I have and to rest and be ready for work hard to be in good conditions in January. 

Q.   Do you have a prediction for the Murray/Federer match?   Will you be watching it and the final? 
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I will be watching soccer (laughter). 

Q.   Any predictions? 
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   It's 50/50, yeah (smiling). 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT