BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 10, 2012
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. DEL POTRO/R. Federer
  7‑6, 4‑6, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Did you know before the match that it was 10 years that nobody had beaten twice in a row indoors Federer or is just a surprise now?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   It's a surprise for me now.   No, I didn't know.   I just was thinking about my game, trying to beat him and go to the semis.   
But I think is a little record, but really tough to do it.   Djokovic, Murray, they will beat him many times than me.   They are also big names to try to beat.  
   
 Q.   Are you surprised to be so good indoors?   Before everyone thought that Federer is the best of all players indoors.   Are you surprised you can beat him twice?   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   No, I prefer the hard courts.   But here I am feeling confidence with my game.   My serve is working really well.   Maybe the surface help to play short rallies, to be aggressive all the time.   That for my game is a very good advantage.   So maybe is the reason of my success on me in this court.   
   
 Q.   Psychologically how important is it for you to beat someone like Federer twice in a row?   Can you also just talk about the final set.   You managed your serve really well.   I think he got just two points.   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, beat Federer is not easy, for sure.   But I didn't think about the semis or try to qualify for the next round.   Just was thinking about my match, doing same things like Basel.   In the end, I was thinking maybe could be my last service game of the year if I lose against him.   
So I put all my concentration when I was serving and that's help me to make fantastic first serves and many aces.   
   
 Q.   Is there anything that happened in Paris or at the Olympics, Wimbledon or Basel that has given you the confidence to beat him, when before you were losing close matches?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, maybe could be the Roland Garros match.   I was two set up and then I lost.   But after that match, I say to me, You can beat him, why not?   Then we play again in the Olympics.   I was really, really close.   
But Federer is Federer.   He make the difference between him and all the players in the important moments and in the big matches also like the Olympics.   But now I'm doing better than him basically in Basel and now.   
But now the tournament is different.   We are in semis both.   He's still the favorite to win the tournament, with Murray and Djokovic.   
   
 Q.   You don't know who you play next, but can you talk about the two possibly semifinalists, Djokovic and Murray.   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Against Nole, we play against many times each other.   I beat him in the Olympics, he beat me in the US Open quarters.   But I play good match there.   Tomorrow can be another big challenge against him.   I need to play better than today if I want to beat him, for sure.   But is not going to be easy.   
And against Andy, he feel really confidence.   He won the US Open.   He's playing really, really well.   The crowd will be cheering for him.   They can take many things for him on that.   
Now you have three big names on semifinals and one big guy (smiling).   
   
 Q.   You've played an awful lot of matches this autumn.   Now you have matches on consecutive days.   How are you feeling physically?   Is that a part of your game that you've worked a lot on this season?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I'm feeling well.   I'm okay to play my next round tomorrow.   Still remain maybe one or two matches in the year.   I have little rest to play these kind of matches.   But I'm just thinking about tomorrow.   It's going to be a big challenge for me tomorrow playing against Andy or Novak.  
   
 Q.   We've all been asking for a while, When is he going to be back winning majors, beating the top players consistently.   If you're able to win this title here, do you feel that would put you back in the conversation of being one of the very elite players?   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I don't know what I have to do to answer different questions.   I won the bronze medal in the Olympics.   In the photo, you can see Federer, Murray and me.   Is now Murray in semis, Djokovic, Federer and me.   
I just try to do my job.   I don't care if I'm playing better or not than 2009 when I won the US Open.   Just be happy to play tennis again after my serious wrist problem.   Maybe I work to be better in the future, to fight in the Grand Slams tournaments.   
But you have also good players, and they deserve to be in the position where they be now.   
   
 Q.   You just said before that Federer is still the favorite, then Murray and Djokovic.   When you talk to yourself, do you tell yourself the same?   Do you say those are the three favorites and I'm number four, or when you talk in the mirror do you say I can be No.1?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I don't know who is the favorite No.1.   Djokovic, Murray or Federer can win the tournament.   I can tell you I'm the No.4 for sure also.   
Everything can happens.   I beat Federer, Novak and Andy long time ago, so maybe if I have lucky, can repeat here.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT