BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 8, 2012
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. DEL POTRO/J. Tipsarevic
  6‑0, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   After tonight's victory, you now face Roger Federer.   You have to beat him to qualify for the semifinals.   Your thoughts on that match and what you remember from 2009?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Well, first I'm glad to beat Janko tonight.   I play much better than my first match here.   Win in two sets give me a chance to go to the next round.   
But before I need to beat Roger once again, it's going to be a different match like 2009 here, but also is going to be a special match for me.   Could be my last match in this season, so I will try to play similar than Basel, finals in Basel, trying to be more aggressive than him all the time and see if I have little chance to beat him.   
   
 Q.   How do you rate Sergio's tennis?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   He's a good soccer player.   He is a really, really nice friend, really nice guy.   I think he enjoy my match today, and also he can hit the ball really well.   
But I think you should ask him if he prefers soccer or tennis.   
   
 Q.   Is he better than Carlos Tevez at tennis?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   They play similar.   Both are good.   But I don't know which sport is better for him.   I think is an easy answer to my question.   
   
 Q.   You played very well tonight.   How do you feel compared to your first match with Ferrer?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Well, against Ferrer, I play well also, but he was better than me.   Basically in the end of the match, he broke my serve in the last game playing aggressive.   He put all the returns into the court, long rallies.   
But I play well.   I'm glad with my level at this moment.   But I know if I want to beat Roger, I should play much better than today and my first match.   
   
 Q.   Roger had a good victory today.   What makes him so hard to beat on this surface?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Well, Roger, everybody knows about his game, what he's doing during this season.   
But I know my match is going to be completely difference than the rest of the matches and I'm not the favorite for that match.   
But anyways, pleasure play against him.   Is a big challenge for me to see how can I close the year.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT