BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 3, 2012
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   You've worked very hard to get back after your wrist injury from two years ago.   Is being here do you think a sign you are now back with the very top group of players?   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I mean, it's a pleasure be part of that eight players.   It's an honor, you know.   We have big, big names playing this week.   I'm part of them.   They are favorites more than me.   
But just be here is like a gift after tough works, after my wrist injury.   I would like to enjoy the week trying to play good tennis and do my best.   
   
 Q.   How big was the win over Federer in Basel for you two weeks ago?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   It was really nice for me.   After tough losses this year, basically in the Olympics when he beat me, after a big match, come to meet again in Basel in the final to get my 13th title, was really nice, really big for me.   
Also I'm looking forward for this tournament.   After that victory, I can do maybe the same like there.   
   
 Q.   It's three years since you last played here.   What are your memories of that occasion?   Were there times when you wondered if you'd actually make it back to play here again?   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Well, I had a good memories in London basically this year when I win the bronze medal.   This tournament I made finals three years ago, beating Federer and beating another big guys.   
Now my present is different.   I'm not the favorite for this tournament.   But just be here is so big for me and I will try to be until the end on this tournament.   But I know they are playing really well, too.   
   
 Q.   How would you assess your season and what have been the highlights and the 'lowlights' for you?   Also, can you talk about how your wrist is feeling.   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   My wrist is okay.   I'm feeling healthy.   That is important to close a very good season for me.   I had big moments like in Olympics.   
Always when you win a tournament, is big moment for me.   Beating Federer was big.   The sad moments could be when I lost against him in the semifinals for the Olympics and also in French Open.   
But I think I'm doing a good season and I have more things to celebrate.   
   
 Q.   Do you worry about your body?   You've had a number of injuries?   Maybe you're fragile.   Do you think of yourself as a fragile player right now?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   No.   I think we play a lot.   We need to stay strong all the time.   But sometimes you cannot be hundred percent like I wanted.   
But now I'm healthy.   I will have time to be stronger for the next season after this tournament.   All the players has injuries, have pains, but it's normal.   
   
 Q.   Obviously after this week you get a longer off‑season than previous years because they cut out the gap between Paris and London.   Would you prefer it to be this way or the way it used to be?   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   We prefer have more time to recovery and prepare the next season.   But is the first time with the short season.   They are trying to improve a little bit.   I think they will talk about this after this tournament.   They will discuss if this is better or worse for the next season and they will take the decision.   
For us, I think everything is okay and we are ready to play anyway.   
   
 Q.   Have you invited Carlos Tevez to come and see you again?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I will invite him, yeah.   If he has a free time, maybe he will be here.   
   
 Q.   Any other Argentinian footballers?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Also Aguero.   Many Argentinian players playing in Manchester City.   I would like to have them here watch me.   
   
 Q.   Do you stay in contact with Carlos Tevez particularly?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, I have contact with him.   
   
 Q.   You won a number of titles this year, but smaller tournaments.   Do you consider that the building blocks to, again, challenging the top players at the Grand Slams?   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Win a tournament is not easy, even if you win a small tournament.   I think Basel is not a small tournament.   Federer was playing there and also another good players.   
But, I mean, the Grand Slam winners are always the same players, like Djokovic, Nadal, now Murray.   The rest will try to win like them, but it's not easy.   
   
 Q.   That being said, are you surprised with the results at Bercy this week?   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   No.   The guys are playing really well.   Llodra beat Querrey after beat me, and the other Polish guy in semifinals beat him, Murray, Tipsarevic.   They deserve to be there.   
   
 Q.   Because of Carlos Tevez and many Argentinians playing for Manchester City, would you like them to win the league this season?   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I don't know what can I say here (laughter)?   I can tell you after the tournament.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT