U.S. OPEN
September 6, 2012
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. DJOKOVIC/J. Del Potro
  6‑2, 7‑6, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Especially in the second set the level of your play was so high, and yet he had just incredible answers for what you threw at him.   Just talk about what especially that second set was like. 
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I had the chance to win that set, but Nole played really well basically in the important moments.   Also in the tiebreak he had a little lucky in some points, some lines, on net, Hawk‑Eye. 
But and also you need lucky to win these kind of matches.   He deserved today, and he played much better than me for the rest of the match.   He was too much for me.

Q.   You played him of course very recently in big matches.   Just talk about the way he's playing, the way he played today, compared to the last few times you played him?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Well, I think he's playing better and better every day and tournament.   He is the favorite to win this tournament.   I saw him playing in very high level for the three hours in the match, and he has intensity to win all the matches in the tournament. 
I wish the best for the rest of the tournament.

Q.   When you lunged for that backhand and then you ran up and you must have felt that the crowd was really pulling for you.   It was amazing. 
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, it's amazing for me, yeah, share with the crowd this kind of moment.   I really enjoyed playing in this stadium.   I had my big memories here in this tournament, and I would like to say thank you a lot for these things.   I think is the most difficult to get for the players.
I really enjoyed when the crowd is really exciting with the players.

Q.   How important is it for you to get back to that level of '09, and how close do you think you are?   You had a great run here. 
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Well, I made the quarters in all the Grand Slam; I am top 10; I am getting closer to the top 5.   I know they are playing much better than me. 
Also Berdych, Ferrer, Tsonga, some nice players, and it's take time to be in that group.   But anyway, they are playing much better, and it's tough to getting closer to them.

Q.   Are you frustrated at all?   Are you like, Okay, it's coming, it's coming, it's coming?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, I'm working for that.   Working every day very hard.   Maybe I will have the chance to be in that group again.

Q.   Any thoughts of regret tonight?   Do you feel like you left anything out there, or do you feel like this is a situation where you went out and played as well as you are able to and he just simply... 
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, when you play against great players you have a little chance to change the way of the match.   I had during the second set, but he played better and he was fighting and fighting in the important moments.
If you don't take that chance, you will lose in this biggest stadium and with the biggest players.
Anyways, I have many things to learn.   Also, I'm glad to my level.

Q.   How would you describe his ability to stay in points when it looked like you had put him out of them?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Well, I always try to fight every, every point, and sometimes it's difficult when you have in front of you a warrior, you know.   He's a very, very good player.   He has a fantastic physical, and it's not easy when you play against that things.
But Nole tonight played better than me.   I just have to still work.

Q.   Can you just maybe talk about how hard it is to serve against him because he has so many returns back?   When you're serving against him what are you thinking of, what are you to do? 
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Well, trying to play with my first serve, but Nole is one of the best returners in the circuit.   He has many break points, and it's not easy when you feel your best weapon and the other guy return all the serve.
I tried until last point, and some matches on some days, the opponent play better.   That's it.

Q.   Was there ever a time, especially in that second set, all the lines he was hitting and everything where you just thought ‑‑we saw a lot of this from where you thought, What the heck do I have to do here?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Some days are lucky with the other guy, some days with me.   That's part of the game.
But anyway, I don't lose the match because that point.   When he got to be focused and play better than me in the tiebreak he made and he deserve all the time, so I think that's it. 

Q.   It seems to us from the outside that when you were in rallies with him, you were hitting four and five shots perhaps that nobody else could have returned but Nole, it seemed to us.   Does it seem like that to you or not?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah.   Nole and Rafa can return and can play very long rallies. 
Well, it's not many players can do that, but they are the best of the world.   It's amazing what they do. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT