U.S. OPEN
September 5, 2012
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. DEL POTRO/A. Roddick
  6‑7, 7‑6, 6‑2, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.

Q.   A very emotional win.   Talk about the experience of playing Andy in his last match. 
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, it was really tough moment for me and for him, also.   Last point of his life.   The crowd was amazing for both players.   I really enjoyed in that way, but it wasn't easy for me to play.   I had to close the match with my serve. 
I was nervous, but he made some misses and was easier for me.   But anyway, was an unbelievable match.

Q.   You also retired Marat Safin in Bercy.   Any significance, the fact that two notable players of this generation you beat in their last matches?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Well, Safin was one of my idols, and when you play these kind of matches, it's completely different.   My last time playing in Arthur Ashe was when I beat Federer and, I came today to play once again against Andy Roddick. 
Was of course amazing moment for me also winning in the match.   But I think the words are enough for this moment.   He has to enjoy the life, and I would like to congratulate him because he made unbelievable career.

Q.   How happy are you with the way that you played today, especially considering the circumstances, the long delay, and then obviously... 
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, I played better than my last match.   I was really high intensity during all the match, and Andy played really well.   I don't know if he are pretty sure to stop to play because, in this way he's going to be dangerous in the next tournaments for us.   But also he retired in fantastic shape.   It's amazing.

Q.   Talk about facing Novak. 
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Once again, we played last three matches.   At the moment I won the most for me, but tomorrow also going to be big match for this in this big stadium with full crowd and in my favorite tournament.

Q.   Did you feel like a road team?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   No.   (Laughter.)
No, no, I'm feeling glad to go through.   And now I would like to enjoy this moment a little bit, but during the night I will try to think about tomorrow and that's it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT