U.S. OPEN
August 31, 2012
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. DEL POTRO/R. Harrison
  6‑2, 6‑3, 2‑6, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Talk a little bit about the third set.   Did he raise his game or were you just playing a little down?   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, I didn't play like the first two sets in that third set, and he improved his game a little bit also.  
It's not easy when you have the control of the points all the match.   He's very dangerous.   He has a big future, and he like to compete with all players.   He has the game to beat all of them also.   
   
 Q.   Is it sometimes good to be challenged early in the tournament as opposed to just breezing through and have a chance to really dig deep down inside and test yourself?   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, my first round and today was big challenge for me to see how my wrist is going and how my level is.   
Always when you win matches everything is better.   I'm happy to go through to third round.   I will have another tough match in the third round against Mayer.  
The tournament is get is worse every day and you have to be 100% from here to the rest.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel you're 100%?   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I'm getting closer.   (Smiling.)  
   
 Q.   There is obviously a top four right now, and then there are players in the next through our four and you're one of those players.   How much of a difference is there between that level and you and Ferrer and that second level?   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Well, they are always the favorite to win these kind of tournament, but they are not impossible to beat.   Ferrer can beat all of them; Isner can beat all of them; me if I have good matches also.  
But they are of course the favorite to win this tournament.   It's not easy to beat them in five sets, especially here in the US Open, but we will try.   
   
 Q.   Do you think it's a psychological advantage or is it physical or something else?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   No, it's just the level.   They are so good.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT