WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 18, 2012
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. DJOKOVIC/J. Del Potro
  6‑3, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Third game in the match you had quite a few break points when Novak was serving.   You had some opportunities.   Can you take me through what went on there? 
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, I had I think SIX break point in all the match and I didn't take any one.   Against Novak or the top players, if you don't take your opportunities, you will lose for sure. 
I think he play much better than me today basically in the important moments or the break points.   He was too good for me.

Q.   What's the situation with the wrist? 
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I can tell you more CLEARLY tomorrow or Monday.   I will check with my doctor maybe tonight or tomorrow.   He will tell me what's the next step for me.
But I will take care of my wrist because it's very important for me.

Q.   Was it painful during the match? 
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, it's pain like bother me all the time, and I don't want risk too much.   I have experience in wrist problems, and I would like to take time to fix this little problem. 

Q.   This is a very important match and you seemed fairly relaxed out there at certain points and joking with the crowd.   Do you feel that shows your comfort level with your game now?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, I'm playing well, even this match, you know.   And the crowd here is very nice.   It was full today, and I didn't retire because Djokovic is my friend and I have a lot respect of him and I want to finish the match. 
And also for the match, for the crowd, for the tournament, sponsors and everybody. 
But anyway, I enjoyed the match and I enjoyed the tournament.

Q.   Would you have retired maybe under other circumstances?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Maybe.   But against friend of mine and a big player like them, for respect to them I will finish the match. 

Q.   What percentage do you think you were going into the match physically?   70%, 80%?   Obviously earlier in the year you were 100%. 
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I lost because Djokovic played much better than me, of course.   And the wrist doesn't bother me too much for lose this match. 
I think he take all his chances and he close the match in the first time with his serve.   I need to work little more to be healthy and to try to win again against them. 

Q.   Your footwork seemed very good today, probably better than is was when you won the US Open.   Have you lost any weight to make you quicker in the last few years?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I don't know.   I'm not eating too much burgers at the moment.   (Smiling.) 
No, I'm working very, very hard, and I know the physical is very important to play all the year healthy.   You know, I am working on that.   I am working on my serve, forehands, volley.   Sometimes I feel good and sometimes not too good.
But anyway, you have to play during all the year. 

Q.   So you think you've been eating healthier in the last couple years. 
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, yeah.

Q.   When is the next time you think you'll have a hit for practice?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Well, I will rest couple of days.   The doctor will tell me what the schedule for me in the next day, but I think I will rest some days before hitting again. 

Q.   What's your favorite thing to do in New York away from the tennis or favorite place to go? 
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Well, go shopping maybe. 

Q.   Where to?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   5th Avenue.   It's nice to go there.   (Smiling.)







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT