WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 17, 2012
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. DEL POTRO/J. Chardy
  6‑1, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   You have been very dominant today on both side of the balls.   What is the problem with the wrist?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I don't know, but I play really well, much better than yesterday.   I feel I get up better than just enough confidence to play this match, and I play really well in the beginning.   
I broke his serve very early, so that's give me confidence to still play and healthy and relax and don't think about my wrist.  
   
 Q.   With the Open coming up so soon, are you pretty happy with your game and where it stands right now, or still looking to work on some things?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, I think I'm in good level at the moment after the Olympics.   I get confidence to play against all the players.   
But anyway I'm still feeling a little difference between the top players and me.   But I know I'm getting closer very slowly, so that's important.   I'm working for that.  
   
 Q.   What do you think that will take to reach where they are in your mind?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Keep playing against them, you know.   Sometimes I will win, and then I will lose, but keep playing.   I will take good things to improve my game and also see how I'm going against them.   
But this take time, and I'm very calm to do it.   
   
 Q.   I come back to the wrist, because I read somewhere that you have to visit your physio, the guy who operate the right wrist in Minnesota.   What are you going to do with him?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, I will visit with him after this tournament and he will tell me what is the plan for the next tournament.  
But I'm very confident with my doctor.   He's the best of the world about wrist, so after here I will talk with him and we will see.  
   
 Q.   Is there any risk about the US Open then?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I hope not, no.   The good thing, I'm not getting worse so I can play.   But anyway, I want to wait what's the doctor says, because I have experience on my other wrist, and I don't want to heard many people talking about my wrist.  
   
 Q.   You were 4 of 17 on break points.   Was Chardy doing anything different on his serve or were you going for too much on those points?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Well, I think he doesn't serve too good like yesterday today.   I had a lot of break points and I broke his serve like four times.   Is too many times for the quarterfinals in these kind of tournament.   
But I was really focused on his serve, because I know maybe one or two breaks is gonna be the difference in the match.   I think that was completely the key of the match.  
   
 Q.   Talking specifically about the bronze medal match and beating Djokovic after coming so close against Federer and battling so hard, how important was that specifically to rebound just like that?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Well, it was very, very important for me, for my team, for my country also.   After the loss against Federer, I saw completely black everything, you know, and was really tough to recover and to get energy to play against Djokovic.  
But my friends, family, and the people in my country help me a lot to play against Djokovic for the bronze medal.   
After I beat him was I think my best moment in my life, in my tennis career, very close to the US Open tournament or maybe more or less, I don't know.   But was my big moment ever in the tennis life.  
   
 Q.   Djokovic could be next.   Are you ready for another fight?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I hope, yes.   I will recovery for the rest of the day and always like to play against them.   They are so, so good players.   It's also big challenge to see how my level is against them in hard courts.  
   
 Q.   Talk a little bit about the speed of these courts.   In the past it's been very quick, and this year guys are saying it's a little slower and the bounce is a little higher.   What do you think?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, I think so.   But I think they are very similar, like the US Open courts, and is good preparations, also.   I like to play hard courts.   I like the high bounce.   It's better for my size, you know.   Also for my serves.   
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT