WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 15, 2012
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. DEL POTRO/T. Haas
  7‑5, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Midway through the first set you called for the trainer.   What was going on there?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   No, because was really, really hot to play, and I took some pills to feel much, with much energy.   That's it.

Q.   Rafael Nadal is not going to play the US Open he announced today.   Do you have any thoughts or comments on that?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   No, I don't have idea.   It's a very sad moment for him, for sure. 
I wish him very fast recovery for him.   We miss him in these kind of tournament.   It's really tough moment for him, for sure.   I wish all the best, a good recovery.   I don't have too many words to say.

Q.   Can you talk a little bit about Tommy's game?   It's 34 years old, still smacking it around quite a bit. 
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, he's playing really well.   He made final in Hamburg, final in Washington, quarters in Toronto, playing really high level.   He has experience also in these tournaments in the matches against big players, also. 
He will be very dangerous for the US Open.

Q.   After the Olympics, which was a big tournament for the men played in the best‑of‑three, there was some talk about maybe the Grand Slams could be best‑of‑three for the men, as well.   How would you feel about that change, especially having played some long best‑of‑three matches at the Olympics?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Well, the Grand Slam are the biggest tournaments for us, you know.   But the Olympics was special moments for me and for the rest of the players. 
Win a medal in London was big like win the US Open.   Maybe less or more, but in that level, you know, and for the country means too big, you know.   The medals, I was the first one for Argentina.
I am the only player who win a medal in singles for Argentina, so that's mean many big things for me.

Q.   There aren't too many times in tennis where, after you lose a match you can turn around and come back and play another match, in this case for the bronze medal.   Can you take us through a little bit about how after the semifinal with Roger you got mentally ready to play Novak?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, I don't know how I did that.   (Smiling.)
I was really, really sad after loss against Roger, but my parents, friends, and my team helped me a lot to open my eyes, you know, and to fight in the last match against Djokovic.
I really feel the support from my country.   All the people was behind me and help me to get the energy to best I can against Djokovic.

Q.   Do you feel like you can be pretty dangerous in the Open now?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I don't know.   The favorites are Djokovic, Murray, and Federer, and maybe Tsonga and someone else.
But I know I'm getting closer to them.   Also it's a long road to be all the time playing in high level.   But I will do my shot like always.

Q.   What makes the US Open a difficult tournament?   You have had success there, but why is it challenging?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Well, I love the US Open.   Can be another goal for me win, win once again in NewYork.
But just be part of the big, big tournament.   Most of the crowd knows about my win in 2009.   It's amazing for me, and I will enjoy all the days around NewYork.

Q.   Did you always like the tournament, the atmosphere, the chaos?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Well, yeah, I like the atmosphere, the crowd, the biggest stadiums.   And also many Argentinian fans come to see playing there.   It's an easy flight from Argentina to NewYork to the tennis fans, so we have a big support of them in the US Open.

Q.   I heard on a broadcast that you still have the racquet when you won the Open in your bag and you're going to pull it out for a special moment.   Is that accurate?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, yeah.   I have here, but I'm not using that racquet. 

Q.   Hopefully maybe in New York. 
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, maybe.   I should have used it against Federer in the Olympics. 

Q.   With tennis getting more and more physical, some people have said that matches at Grand Slams are too long and that they could be best‑of‑three now like they were at the Olympics. 
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I don't know.   Can be an idea, but we have people who worked for that things.   We play in good level at the Olympics.   I think is a good way to see in the future, but also the Grand Slam make special tournaments playing in five sets.

Q.   Nadal, people said he's young, he's 26, maybe he could catch Federer.   But with the chronic knee tendonitis, do you think it's less likely now?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   No, no, everybody knows Rafa.   He's a big fighter.   He will be with us very, very soon, and could be dangerous for us when he come back because he gonna be much better than the rest of the players. 
He's still very, very young, of course.   He has many challenge to do it, so he will be ready very soon.   I wish all the best for him because he's a nice guy.

Q.   Next year the WTA is adding a tournament in South America and again Memphis is going to move to South America.   Can you elaborate a little bit about more tournaments being played on your continent ‑ because there really haven't been so many ‑ and what that might do for growing tennis on your continent?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, hopefully South America has many tournaments.   Will be easier for us.   But we know it's very tough move tournaments or get tournaments in South America.   We are not bigger like United States or Europe or Russia to make tournaments.
But we will working for the best for the players. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT