ROGERS CUP MEN
August 8, 2012
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. STEPANEK/J. Del Potro
  6‑4, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How tired were you feeling? 
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Completely.   It's tough to say in very short time. 
But it's fantastic tournament here in Toronto.   I would like to play more matches, but Radek play better and was a good winner today. 

Q.   Was there also a slight sense of a letdown after London?   And when did you actually get here?   When did you leave London?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Well, I came here Monday night.   But, I mean, many players pull out from here.   It's not easy play after big effort in Olympics, but I tried anyway. 
Now I need time to recovery my body if I want to stay healthy, you know.

Q.   Are you going to play Cincinnati next week?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I wish to play there, but I need time to relax. 

Q.   In this situation you talk about your body being tired.   How hard is it to sort of find the perfect balance between resting and also getting hard court experience going into New York? 
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Well, it was my first match in hard courts since Miami, you know.   But now I will have time to relax, to train, and I will be 100% for the next tournaments and 100% for my favorite tournament in New York.

Q.   You're still scheduled to play doubles later today.   Is that still on? 
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   We'll see.   We'll see now.

Q.   Congratulations for the Olympics first.   This leave you more confident for the future, the bronze?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I hope so.   It's fantastic beat Djokovic for the bronze medal.   I also lost a very, very good match against Federer that give me confidence to play against them in the future.
But anyway, I should work very, very hard to be better. 

Q.   Well‑fought match today.   Assuming that your doubles match is still on and how well Stepanek played, what does that do for your confidence for your doubles match later on?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I just lost the match.   I will eat something and talk with my partner and I will see if we are 100% to play.   He understand my situation.   I'm very friend of him, so we will see.

Q.   With the results in London in the semis and finals, your match versus Roger and then the bronze medal match and then Andy's victory over Roger in straight sets, do you get the feeling now that there might be an opening?   People talk about the big three for a long time.   Do you think there might be room for an expansion, big four, big five, and there could be some room more at the top?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, we work for that.   Also I think they speak about big four.   Murray also is a big player.   Then you have Ferrer, Tsonga, Berdych, many good players.
But still far from them, but we work to get closer as fast we can.   But it's a long road to play at the same level like them. 

Q.   Just as a follow up on that, given his injuries and withdrawing from the Olympics and this tournament, do you think it could be the beginning of the end for Rafael Nadal? 
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   No.   Well, Rafa, I think he's training now and he's preparing for the next tournament.   He's a warrior, you know, and he has a fantastic mentally, so he will be back very, very soon and very strong also. 

Q.   Talk a little bit about your Olympics experience.   Did you have some time to visit the Village when you weren't playing?   What did it mean to play for your country and win a bronze?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, it was fantastic.   I think been one of my best moments in my career playing the Olympics, staying at the Village some days, share with all the athletes.   Was fantastic.
It's a big, big experience for me.   I should wait four more years to play another, but will be my heart for the rest of the life. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT