LONDON 2012 OLYMPIC GAMES
August 5, 2012
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. DEL POTRO/N. Djokovic
  7‑5, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   You were so upset and disappointed a couple of days ago.   How does it feel now winning a bronze medal?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I think I'm the most happy of the world at this moment.   After a really sad day two days ago, it's not easy to recovery and to play these kind of matches.   
But I had energy into my body, into my heart, and that's help me to play this big challenge for me.   
   
 Q.   What made the difference for you today in the match against Novak?   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Well, I think I play really close to my best level, like against Federer.   When they are so good, sometimes it's not enough to beat them.   
But today I made three fantastic serves in a row in the last game.   I had lucky to close the match in that game because I was so nervous.   If I lose that game, will be really tough to keep fighting for the rest of the match.   
   
 Q.   How did you find that extra passion in yourself to get through this match after the disappointment from the other day?   How were you able to lift yourself?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Well, speaking a lot with my team, with my friends, family, with everybody.   Everybody help me to play hundred percent this match.   I know everybody in Argentina was follow this match, trying to give me power to play my best tennis.   I really appreciate that.   
I think this gift is for all our country.   
   
 Q.   So what do you really think it means for Argentina?   You just mentioned how much support you got, but what would something like this mean for the country?   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Well, it's our first medal in this Olympic Games.   It's the first time in singles men.   I think means a lot for us.   I wish a fantastic day for them to celebrate this with me.   
   
 Q.   How much do you think this is going to be a boost for you and the rest of the team for Davis Cup coming up?   It's not that far off.   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Well, no.   Is time to celebrate this.   It's amazing.   It's history, I think.   It's time to celebrate all together.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT