WIMBLEDON
June 30, 2012
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. DEL POTRO/K. Nishikori
  6‑3, 7‑6, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   This is your equal best result at Wimbledon.   What do you think has changed about your grass court game that's helped you improve over the years here?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yes, I think was my best match in this week also.   I play really aggressive, trying to hit the ball really hard, and I took all my breakpoints.   That's important to have the control of the match for play more focus and more relax also. 
I think I did a very good match today, and I will have an opportunity after tomorrow to play the fourth round again. 

Q.   Could you tell me how your knee is.   You missed a tournament coming in because of your injury.   Is that completely healed now?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, yeah, it's almost perfect.   I had a very good recovery at home, and now I'm getting better every day.   So it's important for this tournament and for the rest of the season. 

Q.   Do you feel your movement is more or less 100% now?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Is almost 100%.   I need a little more days to be 100%, but the good thing I'm getting better. 

Q.   Compared to two days ago your movement and your play is much, much better.   What did you change for today's match?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Nothing.   I play much better today because Nishikori is a dangerous player on grass court.   He's very, very fast, so I tried to put the ball one more time in every point. 
I play aggressive.   I serve really well.   I didn't make too many mistake with my forehand. 
So I feel confidence with my game.   Beat Nishikori three sets in a row, it's important. 

Q.   It's been three years since you played last time against Kei.   Did you find any differences in his game compared to three years ago?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, he's playing much better, for sure.   Maybe he has a little bad luck today in the tiebreak.   If he win that set we still playing for sure.   But today I have lucky.   Sometimes you need a little lucky to win these kind of matches, even if you play better. 
But Nishikori is playing much better than two or three years ago, and he's still playing better and better.   So could be very dangerous for the rest of the players. 

Q.   What were you telling yourself in the second set?   It seemed to be very windy.   He started to come back.   How did you get settled? 
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, the condition was horrible.   But was for both player, so trying to think about that.   If I make a mistake, he can make a mistake also.   I am trying to play as best I can because the windy or the conditions are tough to play. 
But they are for both player.   If we have an important moment, I should play better than him if I want to win the match.   That's it. 

Q.   Can you tell us how much you like playing on grass now?   Do you think it's a surface you can win on?   Can you win here? 
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I'm still prefer the hard court, but is good if I have time to play on grass ‑ and also for the Olympics.   I'm playing better day to day, training hard on grass court for this tournament and for the Olympics also. 
If you win matches, the sensation is more comfortable for me.   But, anyway, is difficult surface for the Argentinian player. 

Q.   Do you think you're getting close to the level you had in 2009 before your wrist injury?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I don't know if I'm playing better or similar or worse than 2009.   I'm top 10 and having a good season this year.   I'm looking forward for the rest of the season, trying to getting closer to the best player in the world. 

Q.   What would be a good tournament for you this week, this year?   I don't know if you have visions of winning the whole tournament, or do you feel getting to the quarters or semis would be good?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I don't think about how many rounds can win.   I am having a good tournament, and at the moment I will be ready for my next round.   That's it. 
My important match is the next one, and then if I win I will think about more matches.   But the next one is the most important for me. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT