WIMBLEDON
June 28, 2012
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. DEL POTRO/G. Soeda
  6‑2, 6‑3, 1‑6, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How was playing Soeda, and how are your conditions?   You looked a bit tired toward the end. 
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   No, no.   First, I'm glad to beat him.   I played twice like five years ago, and he improve a lot his game.
On grass, if you don't feel the ball 100% it's tough to play, but he start to play much better after the second set and was dangerous for me in the end of the match. 
But I beat him, so I'm really glad to go through. 

Q.   What do you think makes him tough to play?   What shot from him?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Well, he play really similar with forehands and backhands, and he's very fast like Nishikori, also.   I will play with all the Japanese players (laughter).     But I think he's improving his game.

Q.   "He," means Soeda?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Soeda, yeah, I'm talking about Soeda first.     But I did a good match, and I had a good victory.

Q.   As you said, you're going to next round and you're going to play Kei, and it's been a while since you played him last time.   Since then both of you guys have gone through a lot of sort of up and down. 
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   It's going to be difficult match.   I know Kei since juniors.   He improve his game a lot.   He has a fantastic year in 2011, and this season he's doing well. 
On grass, he's dangerous.   Like all the players in third round, there are only 32 players, and everyone are very dangerous for all the players.

Q.   At Roland Garros you had a bit of problem with your knee.   Is it okay now?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, yeah.   I'm almost fine.   It's a good thing, yeah, for the future and for myself.

Q.   Is that the reason that you skip Queen's?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, almost, yeah, because this tournament is very, very important for me and for the rest of the year.   I would love to play Queen's this year, but my knee was still painful after French Open.   But if I'm healthy, I will be playing there next year, for sure. 

Q.   Which part of Kei's game you think most dangerous?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   All his shots are dangerous.   He's not a taller player, but he serves really well.   Also very consistent with the forehands and backhands, and also he's very, very fast. 
For this kind of surface, is a good advantage, be faster than the opponent.   That's make him very, very dangerous. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT