BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 16, 2012
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. FEDERER/J. Del Potro
  6‑3, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Obviously a very long first game.   You had a couple of chances, and then there was the controversial call.   Can you talk us through what was going your mind at the time and your conversation with the umpire.   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, I understand against Federer or the top guys maybe you have more chance to take advantage in the first games of the match than the rest.  
But today I had two break points before the conversation.   I made the mistake with my forehands, backhands, and there was a problem with that call.   It was clear out, and the machine doesn't work.   I don't know what's happen.   
But then the chair umpire told me he made a mistake, and I was really‑ I don't know how you explain ‑ but at that time he was talking to me, I made the mistake, so could be a big chance to me to change the way of the match in that game.   
But everybody can make a mistake.   I make mistake with my forehand, he made the mistake with the call, but that's it.   I think after that I was not concentrating the match and Roger playing better, take all his opportunities.  
He was really tough to me to playing good level when I saw him in high level.  
   
 Q.   So what happened in that first game that you say affected you for the rest of the match?   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Well, everybody know I'm very calm person when I play, but I told to him against the top guys maybe you have the chance of the match in the beginning of the match, you know.   
I had break points before that ball, and I made a mistake.   Then I don't know if I make another mistake with that chair umpire or he made the mistake, but it's not excuse.   
Roger play better than me.   I can't be focused during all the match.   I don't feel comfortable playing the match.   But was my problem.   Roger made his job, and he's a good winner.  
   
 Q.   Do you think the umpire should have seen the ball out?   I mean, you saw it out; Roger said he saw it out.   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   He saw out, also?   
   
 Q.   Yes.   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   (Laughing.)   Don't tell me that.   
No, I know Roger, he stayed in the same position to play the second serve.   Everybody can make a mistake.   Now the match is over, and even if I won the first game maybe I will lose, anyway.   So doesn't matter.  
But I don't know.   Anyway, I don't want to talk anymore about that.   I made a good tournament, anyway.   I have good relationship with Mohammed, and everybody knows he's a nice chair umpire.   So everything is okay.  
   
 Q.   So besides that, I mean, you played much closer with Roger in the last time, so besides the first game, what was not working for you today?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Well, I don't serve really well today, and then when I had the break points I play bad.   It's only the same as usual.   If you don't take your chance against Federer, Nadal, Djokovic, you can't win.  
   
 Q.   You are making progress always since your comeback, but still you haven't been able to beat maybe the top guys.   Is it getting a little bit frustrating for you?   Are you ready to beat those guys?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Well, I'm working for that.   I played all the quarterfinals in all the tournaments this year.   I lost just with Roger and Baghdatis this year, so that mean a good thing.   
If I still playing with Federer and the top guys means I'm doing well.   I'm doing semifinals, quarterfinals, and that is good for improve my ranking, also.  
But I will take my match IN Dubai, not this one, because I played worse than Dubai and Roger played always in the same level.  
   
 Q.   I heard that you can play with Nalbandian in the Olympics.   Do you confirm that you will play with maybe Nalbandian in the Olympics?   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   No.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT