BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 13, 2012
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. DEL POTRO/F. Verdasco
  6‑2, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   It was a difficult match today?   You had six match points?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, of course, Verdasco is really difficult opponent, especially in the beginning of the rounds of the big tournaments.   He's very, very tough, very dangerous, and I think I made a good match. 
I have lucky in the second set when I save five set points, and then in the tiebreak he made the double fault to give me first match point.   I think I get the opportunity and I take it.

Q.   You don't play in Davis Cup in February.   Why?   Are you going to play the next one against Croatia?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yes, well, I told many times the reason I don't play in Germany because was really close to the Europe season and changed surface.   I was playing many match in Australia also, and just to keep healthy, trying to play all the tournaments. 
That's the circuit for Davis Cup, but I been thinking about the next round in Davis Cup.   Maybe I can play there.

Q.   Of the two matches with Roger this year, you seemed to be much better in the second one.   Do you think there is improvement?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yes, I think I felt closer in Dubai when I play against him.   I had many chance to win the second set, and the third everything can happen.
But when you miss easy balls or you don't take the opportunities against the top players, you will lose.   That's the reason, because I already lost three times against Roger this year. 
But anyways, I think it's the only way to beat them, just play against them.   Doesn't matter if you lose or if you win, just try to take good things for the next matches.
Then waited the chance to do like I did two years ago.

Q.   It's been a while since your wrist injury.   Is it ever in the back of your mind?   Does it kind of make you tense up sometimes, or are you afraid to hurt it again?   I remember Marat Safin was talking about a similar injury he had, and for years he said he wasn't sure of... 
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, well, everybody knows I was really sad in 2010 when I had the problem on my wrist.   The first part of my injury was I think the worst part, because nobody knows my problem, and I saw so many doctors.   All of them say different things.
It's tough to take a way to fix the wrist when the doctors, when the specialist of wrist, doesn't know what's happen with your hand.
But I think the worst thing of course I does take too many times to fix it.   But then I start to see a different way.   I feel better.   I was trying to stay positive all the time. 
I found a good doctor here in Minnesota, and after the surgery I recovery well.   Now I'm playing all the surface, and I'm glad just to be playing this sport again.
I think being at the top 10 is like a gift for me, you know.   But the first thing is I'm playing this sport, I love this sport, and hopefully be healthy for many, many years.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT