DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS MEN
March 2, 2012
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. FEDERER/J. Del Potro
  7‑6, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How unlucky was that net cord?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah.   Well, I mean, sometimes you need lucky to win this kind of matches, but in the end he played better in the important moments.   I was close, really close.   I miss easy balls, and you can't miss that's balls against Federer or the top guys. 
But I think I made a good tournament, and I'm glad with my level at this moment.   Of course I'm sad to lose this kind of matches, because I feel like I can win.
But I should wait to the next one.

Q.   Although you've lost to Roger twice this year in straight sets, you must still be really pleased that you've got so close this time, absolutely close without a break of serve. 
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, I mean, I said a month ago I need to play against them to improve my game.   Even if I lose, I think I improve since Rotterdam to here.   Was closer than the final two weeks ago.   But I'm still far away at the same time.   It's something strange. 
But I'm getting closer and I'm getting confidence with my level, so maybe the next time if I play better in the important moments or the break points or in the tiebreak I could win. 

Q.   Can you say that after this match you have reached a level of US Open 2009, or not yet? 
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I don't know.   I mean, I think I play a good match today; Roger play better than me just in the important moments.   We save our serve every game. 
And when you have to play better than the opponent, he play better than me today.   I think that was the key.   If I got the second set, maybe I'm still playing, trying to beat him. 
But the match is over and he won.

Q.   What aims have you set yourself for this year? 
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   What? 

Q.   Aims. 
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Well, my first challenge could be play against them in this level during three, four, or five hours, especially in the Grand Slam.   I think I'm working for that.   I'm improve my serve a lot, and I need to serve well if I want to beat these guys or if I want to be in the top again.
Also, I need time to recovery.   I have a big physically, so I need more time than them to recovery, to prepare the match, to come to the tournament.
But I'm working so hard on that. 

Q.   And a ranking you're looking at?   Maybe top 5? 
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I don't see too much the ranking.   Just playing in this level and winning matches I think the ranking is coming along. 

Q.   When you went 5‑Love up in the tiebreak, did you lose your concentration or was it more him not making any more mistakes?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I think that's means too much difference.   Only two breaks in the tiebreak.   I miss a forehand in the 5‑3 I think, serving, and then I have bad luck in that backhand down the line.   It touch the net and come to my side.
I think he play better of course in the match point, and the first tiebreak also.   He's a good winner. 

Q.   Franco Davin said in Amsterdam that you guys are still working on new things to improve your game.   Tsonga was saying yesterday there are new things.   Can you tell us more about what you're working on? 
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Ask Franco.   I don't know what he said.

Q.   You could see on the slices, for example. 
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, maybe slices.   I want to play more aggressive.   Today I made good volleys, good slices, and I'm working on that I think. 

Q.   It shows. 
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT