DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS MEN
February 28, 2012
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. DEL POTRO/A. Dolgopolov
  6‑3, 7‑6 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   How tough was that match against a player who slices and does all sorts of strange things?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, it was really, really tough.   We never played two same points in the match.   Sometimes we had long rally; sometimes very short points; serve and volley; dropshots; and slices.   I think all the shots what a tennis player can make he made today.  
But I'm glad to beat this kind of guys on the first round.   He's top 15, I think, so he's really dangerous for the first round.   
But I go through, and that's important.  
   
 Q.   How difficult was it for you to make the jump of just coming into the tournament when you won in Marseilles?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Last week was fantastic for me.   I am getting confidence every match, every day.   But I adjust arrived this morning, so it's tough to jump to the court on the same day.   
But I'm ready to play this tournament.   I really like to play here in Dubai for first time.   The city is amazing, the tournament, the crowd is so nice, so I'm enjoying a lot.  
   
 Q.   You're improving dramatically.   You were 2009 US Open champion; quarterfinals of Australian; final of Rotterdam; winning last week in Marseilles.   What have you got to do to get higher, top 5?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Well, I'm working for that, but the top guys I think are playing much better than me.   They are still in the top positions, but I'm getting closer.   Very slowly I'm doing step by step, and the best thing is I think I'm still improving my physical, my tennis, and my serves.   That's important in getting closer as soon I can.  
   
 Q.   And you've got Andrey Golubev of Kazakhstan.   How are you going to play him?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Well, I'll try to play more aggressive than today because I'm a little tired obviously.   Now I have the night to sleep well, and I will be ready for tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Physically, how do you feel?   Jo‑Wilfried came in earlier, the man you beat in the semis in Marseilles, and he seemingly was fatigued.   It must be quite challenging to go from France, traveling, everything?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, well we have different physical, Jo and me.   I finish late on Sunday and we arrive also this morning.   
But anyway, he's playing here; I'm playing here; Llodra was playing before me.   We are professionals.   We are working, so I hope to be ready by tomorrow and I'm more calm, more focused than today.  
   
 Q.   You seem to be playing a lot of tournaments in a row, doing a lot traveling.   What is the thought behind this?   Are you trying to push in the rankings, or what's the thought behind your scheduling?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   No, because I never played these kind of tournaments.   I always play in United States, Memphis, Delray Beach.   
I think this year have a good experience in this tournament.   They invite me to play and I say, Yes, of course.  
I think I do a good choice because I already made two finals, and now I go through the first round here.   I think I'm also improving my game indoors carpet.   I never won a title there until last week, so means very important things for the future.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel your level‑ I'm sure you get this question a lot; I'm sorry.   Right now you just won.   Do you keep thinking, I want to be like 2009, or how are you approaching this?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   No, no.   If I don't see videos of 2009, I don't remember how I play there.   (Smiling.)  
But after my injury, I come back with like a new life or new tennis game, because I was 500 and all the players still playing, still working for one year, and I was completely stop at home.  
But I'm top 10 at this moment, getting closer every day, and I think I'm playing well.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT