AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 22, 2012
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. DEL POTRO/P. Kohlschreiber
  6‑4, 6‑2, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Your form obviously has been match to match.   Talk about the match today and what you're looking to do going forward. 
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Well, the match today was difficult basically in the beginning because was really hot, and Philipp play difficult tennis for me.   He make very good backhands down the line and playing the slices and serves and volleys. 
It's not easy for my game, but I was really focused trying to take all my break points, and then I close the first set with my serve; then take a little advantage in the second, and then my game start to feel more aggressive and confidence.
That's was the key of the match.

Q.   Are you happy to be slightly under the radar, as we say?   People talking about Federer, Nadal, Djokovic, Murray, and you're a little bit there.   Is that where you prefer to be?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, yeah.   I'm very calm on that way.   The favorites are them, and I don't have nothing to lose on quarters basically if I play against Roger. 
But I just want to enjoy this match, and then tomorrow start thinking about the quarters and be ready for fight and play good tennis.

Q.   At what point last year did you feel like, Okay, here my game is really starting to come back now; I can go into every match and maybe trust my shots and really believe I can win? 
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I start believing on my game after win Estoril, but then I came to French Open, and I loss against Nole very earlier. 
But in Wimbledon I did a very good match against Rafa on fourth round, and I start to believe much in my game, on my serve, and then I close the year almost top 10.
So that's help me to be ready for this year.   Hopefully play healthy all this season, trying to get in closer than the top guys.

Q.   Davis Cup you played very well in both matches, but you weren't able to win them.   After you left Spain, did you think, I know I can beat these guys anywhere now?   Or are you thinking, Oh, I almost beat these guys and I couldn't do it?   Where was your mental at that point?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, the first option, for sure.   I was really close against Ferrer and Rafa on Davis Cup.   But they play much better than me on this surface.   That's was a learn moment to my future, and I take a good things for my game for the season. 
I don't know if I can beat them in the future or on this tournament or the next one, but if I'm still working on this way, maybe I get it closer soon.

Q.   How excited are you?   You seem very, as usual, quiet and calm. 
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah.

Q.   A little bit of excitement perhaps?   Quarterfinals?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, I can say I'm very happy to be in quarters, but this is my personality, and I don't want to change.   I just do my job as better I can.
And, anyway, it's amazing me play another quarters in a Grand Slam since three years, so it's good signal for my comeback.

Q.   You have been asked about this a lot, but it's very possible you'll play Federer in the next round.   Obviously one of the great moments in your career is beating him at the US Open, and your form seems to be coming back.   You played him in Cincinnati last summer and maybe didn't play so good.   Talk about what you expect of yourself in that match if you play him. 
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   It's going to be another good moment for play.   Roger is the best tennis player of the history, and of course he's the favorite.   I remember three years ago I play on quarters against him and I only win three games.   So if this time is something different and I win more games is going to be okay for me. 

Q.   So in the case that Tomic does upset Federer, just a few words about him.   I'm sure you've seen him. 
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Well, if Tomic win, he will take too much confidence for play the next round.   He's really a nice guy and he's playing really well and he's doing a fantastic tournament, beating many top seed guys, but both for me gonna be very special and difficult match.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT