AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 16, 2012
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. DEL POTRO/A. Mannarino
  2‑6, 6‑1, 7‑5, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Was that more stressful, more of a worry than you would have liked?   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, yeah.   Mannarino is a very dangerous player.   He's lefty and he make different shots.   He start much better than me in the first set, and then was tough to fight behind the score.   
But I did my things, my game, and I took all the opportunities to beat him.   
   
 Q.   Do your goals change this year after last year with such a long injury layoff?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   No, I think I have the same goal.   The first one is play healthy all the year.   And then if I am still improving my game, I hope be closer than the top players.   I will be working for that.   
Is a big tournament here to see where my game is, and hopefully be ready for next round and keep playing well.   
   
 Q.   The heat, 31 degrees today, not too much of a concern?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, was really hot, but is for both player.   I closed the match with my serve in the fourth, so it's better to recovery more time for my next match.   
   
 Q.   Are you conscious of being, yourself and Lleyton Hewitt, the only two outside the big three who knows what it is to win a Grand Slam?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, but I think the favorites are the same like always.   The top four guys is the favorite for this tournament.   Also you have many dangerous player who can beat everyone, like Monfils, Tsonga, Roddick, Mardy Fish, ans Ferrer as well.   Everything can happen.   
   
 Q.   Do you think Roger, Rafa, and Novak are becoming more conscious and more wary of you the longer you've been back from your injuries?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I don't think about that.   I just trying to improve my game, basically my serve, to play better in this surface and on grass.   If I try to play like Davis Cup final, at that level, I will be closer to the top guys.   
   
 Q.   Last year I suppose you were only thinking about your body.   After Davis Cup and a year, how confident are you of going deep in this fortnight?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Well, the season just start.   I don't know if I will be top 10 this year or top 5.   I just want to play as better I can and finish to improve my serve and volleys and little things to win tournaments in different surface.   
   
 Q.   You mentioned knowing what it is to win a Grand Slam.   Is too much made of that or is that something you feel gives you an edge?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, it's a big challenge to do a good Grand Slam.   Is a dream, you know.   No many players felt what is win a Grand Slam.   Only Nadal, Djokovic, Federer, Lleyton, and Roddick, I think.   I don't know if someone else.   But is very, very special.   
   
 Q.   Do you still dream about that?   Or six matches away, is it too far?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   It's too far.   I'm just thinking my next round.  
   
 Q.   But you believe you can win another?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I don't know.   I just thinking Kavcic.  
   
 Q.   The other night there was a players' meeting.   Following the players' meeting, there was some suggestions that there is a bit of upsetness [sic] over the current state of compensation, scheduling.   I wonder if you had any comments you could make on that.   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   No, not much.   We have many meetings between players and ATP persons.   We are discuss many, many things, but just to improve our circuit or improve the tournaments and everything.   Just talking.   
We are fighting to some changes, but that's needs time and we are working on that.  
   
 Q.   Do you think it might help if some of the higher players, top players, would make a better case for the lower players?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   You should ask the better players.   I just heard the meetings.   I can say my ideas, but then is many, many step to get that.   
   
 Q.   How do you compare where your game is at now to 2009?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I don't know.   I can't remember what level I have in 2009.   Was three years ago.   
But I'm glad to play again, you know.   Was horrible 2010 for me.   I was really, really sad off court.   
Now have the chance to play tennis again, so I'm really happy for that.   
   
 Q.   You called the trainer right at the end, which was a bit odd today, serving for the match.   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   No, just to be ready for serve on the match.   
   
 Q.   What was the problem?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   No, nothing.   Just call and a little massage on the legs and nothing.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT