APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 12, 2012
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







M. BAGHDATIS/J. Del Potro
  7‑6, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Disappointing on a variety of fronts.   Tell us where you're mostly disappointed. 
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yes, yes.   Yes, a little disappointed, but I think Marcos played really well in important moments, and I had chance in the first set and I didn't take it.     When you lose every chance and the opponent is like Marcos, you will lose. 
Anyway, Marcos I think played better and better during the match.   In the end of the match he was completely confident with his game and make a lot of winners with the backhand and forehand and was really tough.

Q.   Tell us about the crowd factor. 
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   No, no.   Sometime is difficult when the crowd talk during the point, but I really love play with this kind of crowd. 
Sometimes someone is cheering for Marcos, someone is cheering for me, but I didn't lose any points because the crowd.

Q.   Marcos seems like a player that really feeds off the crowds.   They motivate him. 
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, of course.   He motivated always when he playing here in Australia, because many people come to see his game.   I don't know where is Cyprus, if it's close to Australia or not, but many guys come to here to see his game and follow his tennis.
Hopefully in Melbourne I will have more fans cheering for me.

Q.   I wasn't there in the semifinal between Argentina and Serbia.   What was the noise like in that Davis Cup semifinal compared to tonight? 
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   It's completely different.   Every Davis Cup is different than matches on the circuit.

Q.   You're disappointed to lose tonight, but it's a good thing to go to Melbourne a little bit early and prepare for the Australian Open. 
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, yeah, of course.   If I see from this point of view, it's better for me to be in good shape for my first match.   Could be on Monday, so hopefully be ready for the first round. 
I don't know when I will play, but tomorrow I will be there training, and focus is on the Australian Open.

Q.   Are you playing the way you would have hoped to be ahead of the Australian Open?   Are you where you want to be?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I just want to play better than today, of course.   Also, I need time.   I need matches to take the confidence to play my best tennis.
But playing in a Grand Slam always is special, and I had really good memories on Melbourne.   So just be there and see the crowd and play in the tournament will be good for me. 

Q.   You spoke to Fergus Murphy after the first set.   Did you want the crowd to be silent or removed?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   No.   No, just talking things about the match.   I want to say thank you to the crowd, because they made a good crowd for the players.   I really enjoyed it anyway. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT