APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 11, 2012
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. DEL POTRO/L. Kubot
  6‑4, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Very, very hot and windy.   Is that the toughest conditions that you could possibly get?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, it was really tough conditions for both, obviously.   But I just was really focused on my serve basically in the first set, and then tried to take a little opportunity, because was really difficult to play long rallies, to feel the ball like I wanted.   
Was really tough, but finally I won anyway.  
   
 Q.   What happened in the first game?   Were you injured?   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I hit with the racquet on my leg, but nothing dangerous.   (Smiling.)  
Q.The tournament started three or four days ago.   This is your first game.   Has that been hard sitting around waiting for a match?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, yeah, I start on Wednesday.   When I came here, many people were walk around, the courts too busy for training, and now it's a little quiet and better for us.  
But sometimes it's good if you have bye to training hard and to take confidence for the first matches.   I did well today; tomorrow I need to play better, because my opponent will be really tough as well.   
   
 Q.   You won the comeback of the year award.   What was the best thing about last year?   You got three finals two titles.   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   I have many good memories of last year.   Maybe the match against Nadal in Wimbledon when I lost the match was the best match of the year for me anyway.   
Then when I won in Estoril, I play my best tennis I think in that tournament.   And then could be the semifinals against Serbia on Davis Cup.   
   
 Q.   You were one of the few people that got a win over Djokovic last year.   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, well, he retire, but anyway, I was playing really good game against him, same level on the first and second set.   
Then he retire, but it was a nice memory for Argentina.  
   
 Q.   Is that what you've got to do?   You met quite a few top 10 players last year.   You beat Soderling.  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, I beat Soderling twice I think.   Djokovic.   
   
 Q.   That's what you've got do this year again?   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, beat these kind of player can be a big goal for this year.   
But it's really difficult for the rest of the player after the top 10, you know.   But I'm working for that.   
   
 Q.   When you came back from the wrist surgery, did you have any worries that you might not get back to this kind of standard?   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, a lot.   I was really scared basically in this tournament, Australia, because was the first tournament after the surgery.  
But with time and practicing and trying to think in different moments or different things, not just in my wrist, I improve a lot and keep‑‑ I won matches, and that's help me to keep the confidence to play healthy and play better.   
At this moment, I don't think of my wrist, so a good signal for the future.  
   
 Q.   Do you have preference of who you play tomorrow, either Marcos or Matt?   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   No, no.   I know Marcos better than Ebden, but both will be really tough for me, especially if the conditions like today it's going to be tomorrow again.   
But I need to play my best tennis if I want to win.  
   
 Q.   Have you ever seen Matthew Ebden play?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, I saw him.   He has very talent and his house, so it's going to be the local.   But anyway, I need to play my game.  
   
 Q.   Given your good form last year, are you back to a level where you can put winning a Grand Slam as one of your goals this year?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Yeah, could be a big challenge for me this year.   I think I'm still far to do that goal, but I'm working; I'm feeling good every day.   
So I need time and do step by step and then be ready for that moment.  
   
 Q.   What are your hopes and expectations for the Australian Open?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO:   Can be in the second week will be a good start of the year.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT