WIMBLEDON
June 28, 2016
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. DEL POTRO/S. Robert
  6‑1, 7‑5, 6‑0 
  
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.  
   
 Q. What does it mean for you to be back at the All England Club?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: That mean great sensations after three years. I been here in 2013 making semifinals in a great match against Djokovic. I never have the chance again to play on grass courts.   
This year is completely different for myself, and I am enjoying tennis a lot. Of course, when you win your first round, everything is much better. I'm looking forward to play a great match against Wawrinka.   
   
 Q. How would you describe where you are in your game right now versus when you played in that great semifinal against Djokovic?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I don't know. To be honest, I feel my forehands and serves are working well at the moment. But I need to play a good matches for being hundred percent. I'm not having all my confidence on my backhands yet, and that's tough when you play against the top guys because they are so good players and they are strong enough to play in the fifth‑set matches.   
This is my comeback after three years. I'm expecting be better in the future, but for this year my biggest challenge could be finish healthy and ready to make a good preparation for the next year.   
   
 Q. I know you're tired of answering the question, but physically, do you feel finally being able to practice the hours you want to practice freely and not thinking about the wrist?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yes, I'm feeling better week by week. I'm doing all my steps one step at the moment. I'm wake up and I can set my practice and I do it. That's important for my mind, as well, because I'm not thinking about treatments or injuries or doctors or nothing like that.   
Just want to play free. That's what I'm doing at the moment. I think we are in the good way to be ready and be healthy very soon.   
   
 Q. What is your reaction to what happened with Argentina's football team and Messi's announcement?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Of course, we were sad. Tough question. We were talking about the match in the locker room with the other players. I mean, it's difficult to say something about Messi or the team because they deserve to win the title. I mean, they deserve to win the World Cup last year, but they cannot do it.   
I think Messi needs time to think about it, just stay with the family, take a break, then he will be available to make a smart decision about the national team.   
But in our country, we support all the players. We are very pleased because they do everything to win the title, and they just lost a match.   
   
 Q. What do you hope Messi will do?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I want him be happy. He has everything to be happy. He has a great family, good childs, good friends. He's the best player of the world. He must be happy every day.   
For my point of view, in our country, we love him. He just want to stay calm and think about all the decisions. But he deserve to have the people behind him, support him.   
   
 Q. You've had multiple comebacks. How do you stay motivated to keep trying to come back and keep going?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, my families and friends was very important for me. They were behind me all the time, push me up every day. As I said before, I was close to quit tennis in the end of the last year.   
But now my person is completely different. I'm enjoying tennis again. I'm starting to talk about tennis and no more about my wrist. That's important.   
I would like to stay here on tour for more few years. I think I'm close to get that goal.   
   
 Q. What is your coaching situation right now?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I'm working here with Danny Vallverdu for these weeks. We will see after Wimbledon what is the plan. But now he was alone, been alone for the last two years. We have a great relationship. We know each other since juniors players. He's a great person.   
So we are working well here. But we will see after here what's happen.  
   
 Q. Do you believe you'll be able to get full confidence with your backhand where you don't have to compromise so much?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: No, I believe on myself, I believe on my wrist. I would like to get better faster than I'm doing now, but that could be dangerous for my body.   
I'm working hard mentally, too, because I have to deal with some pains and some frustrations when I want to hit a good backhands and I cannot do it.   
This year will be more like to come back on tour, to feel the pression of tennis. I hope to be ready for being aggressive player on next season.   
   
 Q. There are a few younger players who have come up recently in the rankings. What was your take on the new generation, and if anyone stands out to you?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, they have a great future. They are strong enough to play in this level. They are beating most of the guys now. Maybe in very short period, they will be the top guys on tour.   
But also they must to keep training hard to beat Roger, Rafa, Djokovic, because they can win tournaments, but to win a Grand Slam, they need something else, not just playing a good tennis.   
   
 Q. Can you talk about the support of your fans. Did you receive a lot of messages when you were injured?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yes, a lot, from my fans, from the other players. I am feeling so glad to play in Wimbledon again. I had great supporters today at my match. Everywhere when I'm playing, the fans are supporting me a lot. They don't care if I win or if I lose, they just want to see me playing again. That's great for me.   
   
 Q. How is it with your wrist on grass? The grass normally is more dangerous because the bounce is never the same. Do you understand that you're taking more chances here, it's more risky, in this surface than anywhere else? Why did you decide to play here for this reason? Plus, you have the Davis Cup against Italy. I was told you would just play doubles, which is surprising, because you've always been a singles player more than a doubles player.   
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, we decide to play on grass because my game at the moment I think is good enough to play on this surface. That's true what you say, but from our point of view, this surface could help me a little more because I playing slices, I can do serves and volleys. I'm taking care of my wrist.   
When I have the chance to hit harder, I do it. If not, I can play slices, and the surface help to playing on grass. That's where we decide to play few tournaments on grass.   
And then in the Davis Cup, is right after here. I'm exciting to be in Italy one more time. The tie will be really, really difficult for both countries. I will try to be ready for play singles, doubles, or what the captains want.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT