U.S. OPEN
September 4, 2011
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







G. SIMON/J. Del Potro
  4-6, 7-6, 6-2, 7-6

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Difficult time out there. He kept his level up the whole way. Did you think maybe he was going to drop? 
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: No, I know his game. He's a fighter, no? It's very hard make a winner playing against Simon. 
 But I try until the end, and I play in lower level the tiebreaks. He take the chance and he close the match on fourth set. 
 Anyways, I'm glad to be here, play this tournament. And I have what I feel little sad now because I just lose. But I think my comeback is a good shape. I'm keep trying to improve my game. 

 Q. Were you feeling tired? 
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yes. 

 Q. Where is your fitness level now compared to when you won here two years ago?
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, I don't know. It's not easy after a year out of competition come to the Grand Slam and play five sets with this weather. Today was very hot. 
 I'm still trying to recovery my game, my fitness, my mind, everything. I know that's take a long time, but I'm doing faster than everybody thinking. 
 Hopefully be ready or be better for the next Grand Slam next year. 

 Q. Do you have any sentimental feeling or memory about today's match regarding the final? Did it come into your mind at all today?
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yeah, because I play tiebreak on fourth set both in the final and today. I was thinking if I win the tiebreak maybe I can win the match again, but that's not happen and Simon won the match. 

 Q. There was that one point where I think there were three times where it looked like you had a winner, and three straight times he ran it down somehow. How shocked were you? How mentally tiring is it playing someone like that, too? 
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Is tough because you try to make the winners all the time, every point, and the ball come to you every time, too. And if you don't serve really, really well, Simon plays a nice tennis, very fast and it's not easy to make a winner to him. 
 But, anyways, the crowd help me a lot 4-5 in the fourth set especially, and I was really close to win that set. But not this year. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT