U.S. OPEN
September 2, 2011
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. DEL POTRO/D. Junqueira
  6-2, 6-1, 7-5

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Were you comfortable with being the first match of the day, or do you prefer to play a little later?
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: The grandstand is a beautiful stadium. We are pretty close to the fans and we can hear every words from there. 
 I don't mind play first, second, just hopefully for the next match play later, because today was really hot. Change a little bit if you play from 4:00 p.m. to the night and if you play early. But I don't care.

 Q. Would you enjoy or like to get a night match early in the tournament? Would you like playing at night?
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, I think I never play at night, night match here. Would be nice, but I think I should win more matches to do that. 

 Q. How many matches do you think you have to win - because you're a former champion here - to deserve or be given a night stage?
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I don't know, but they have Federer, Djokovic. I'm in the second part of the draw, so I play same day like Nadal, Murray, Roddick, and they are fantastic players to play at night. 
 So I think they are doing a good schedule.

 Q. How do you assess the way you played today? Are you content?
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yes, I'm glad. I played better than my first round. I was more confidence with my, forehand especially in the beginning of the match, and always is important go through. 
 So doesn't matter if you play good or not the first round if you win. Now I'm in the third one, so I need to improve, I need to be more confidence with my serves and forehands if I want to beat Simon or Garcia.

 Q. When you came in the other day after the first match, you were talking just a little bit about the emotions of being back here, but you didn't really want to project too much in terms of how far you felt that you could go. You spoke about confidence. Do you feel more confident now with the second match under your belt and the way you played today? Are you starting to feel that maybe you could go quite deep into the tournament?
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I don't know. Win a match, it's important to get confidence. I play a lefty today, and my next round is against Simon. He's very fast and we play here in 2009 five-set match, and he win fourth set or third set, but very, very close. 
 And Garcia is a fighter, too. I need just be focused with my serve, because that help me a lot to make a short point and to don't run too much.
 But if you keep winning, you will be more confidence with yourself and with your game, too. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT