U.S. OPEN
August 31, 2011
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. DEL POTRO/F. Volandri
  6-3, 6-1, 6-1 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. How does it feel to get your first win after your title here?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I feel really glad. Was a short match, you know, against Volandri, but I served well. I was improving my game during the match.  
 And so be playing here after win here, it's special. It's my favorite tournament, so I'm really happy to take the opportunity to play here again.  
  
  Q. Last time you were here you won the championship. What does it feel like to be back? If you couldn't defend your title, maybe this is, in a way, a defense of your title from two years ago, if you will.   
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yeah. Has been a really sad year, 2010, for me, and I always say.   
 This year to be playing the US Open, it's amazing, it's great, and I'm feeling really glad to see the crowd again, to see the Argentinian fans come to see me specially play here in the US Open.  
 I'm really exciting to keep improving my game, to keep winning here. Hopefully be ready for my next match and win again.  
  
  Q. You have called it your favorite tournament several times. A lot of players say this is crazy and noisy compared to the other Grand Slams. Do you find that to be helpful, or are you just able to shut it all out or what?   
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I don't know. When I was so young, I so want to be at this tournament, I say, Okay, this is my favorite. It will be a dream if I win this tournament, and then the dream comes true.  
 I'm really enjoy the crowd, the fans are crazy, and they are very excited. Every match, the crowds are full every match.   
 For me that's help me to fight. I remember in the final two years ago when I was two sets to one down and they help me, started cheering more for me than Roger, and that's help me a lot to win the final.   
  
  Q. Do you feel like in your mind you're the defending champion and you're defending your title because you won here last year? [Sic]  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, I am feeling very special these couple of days, because I wasn't here last year so I couldn't see my name in the locker room, you know, and many things. That's special, but are pretty little details.   
 But, you know, it's an honor be part of the champions of this tournament.  
  
  Q. You said last year was a sad year for you. Was that just because of the wrist surgery, or was there other stuff going on?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yeah, just for my wrist problem. It took a long time to fix it and then to come back, but I think that was the past. Completely behind me. I can play the tennis again.  
  
  Q. Do you ever feel any residual pain or discomfort in your wrist?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Sometimes when the weather is very humid I feel something, but nothing dangerous. I play in all surface this year and I'm doing well season, so I'm very glad just to be playing.   
 Hopefully next year I will be ready for play in same conditions as the top 10 players. I don't know if I gonna be there, but I will try.  
  
  Q. Where do you feel your game is right now compared to how it was in '09?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I don't know. I keep improving very slowly. That's important. I'm serving -- I think I'm serving much better than two years ago or in the beginning of this year.   
 I know that other players are playing much better than me at this moment, especially the top 10 players. But I repeat: to be here playing this tournament, for me it's a great signal for my future. I know I'm getting closer to my best level, and that's important.  
  
  Q. What were your emotions when you stepped onto the grounds here for the first time since having won the championship?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: It's very, very strong, you know, see the fans, the crowds. After the match the guy who was with the microphone, he say the only player who beat No. 1 No. 2 of player of the world in the Grand Slam. You know, it's an honor.  
 And I want to say thank you to the fans, to the Argentinian people who come to see me play here. I know who was behind me in the right moments and I know who are in this moment, too.  
  
  Q. Is it hard to believe it was two years ago, or does it seem like it was two years ago?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yeah, to be honest, I feel like the final was yesterday, because when I was walking around the street or when I talk with the fans, they say, I remember your final; you can repeat; you can win again.   
 It's every, every day, every time say or talk about this tournament.  
  
  Q. If you have to make a list of what is missing your game, where do you start from? It will be a little bit probably of everything, but what specifically more?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: More consistent, I think. It's difficult to remain in a good level all the year. I need matches and tournaments to do that. I am improving my serve and I improve my game on grass court, and I play really a great game against Nadal there.   
 That's a signal to my future. I know I have to be more focused in the important moments playing against top 10 players, but, you know, that takes time.   
 I myself want to be healthy this season, and then training hard for the next season.  
  
  Q. You said the fans were encouraging you and telling you that you could win again. Do you believe you can?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I don't know, but if I made once, you never know what can happen. I won here, and then the last year I couldn't play in any tournament. So maybe in the future.   
 But at this time, for me, just be here playing this tournament or playing tennis again, it's amazing.  
  
  Q. You sound like you trust more yourself for 2012 than in 2011.   
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yeah, can be true. I know I'm getting closer, but today many players are playing better than me.   
 But this is tennis. Every player can beat anyone, especially in Grand Slam, five-set matches, you know, and two weeks of tournament.   
 So just be focused, and then if you have the chance or if you see the chance, go to it.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT