ROGERS CUP MEN
August 8, 2011
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. DEL POTRO/J. Nieminen
  6-4, 6-0

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. How encouraged are you by that performance tonight. You served almost 70% of your first serves. 
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: It's very important for my game, my serve, and my forehand, too. And today it's really well, especially in the second set. The beginning of the match, feel a little bit confused with the courts, with the balls, with his game, too. Was difficult to find the way of the match. 
 But in the second, improve my game. I play better. I closed the match in second set.

 Q. Does the fact you've played here before, the year you made the final, went on to win the US Open, is there a comfort zone preparing for the final Grand Slam?
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yes. But it's very tough every tournament for me after 2010. I was completely out of the circuit. Now I'm trying to recovery my game, my physic and everything. 
 But I'm doing well this season. I already won two tournaments. I made the semifinals. I beat top-10 players. Many good things for me in this year. 
 But, of course, I'm looking forward for the next Grand Slam. It's my favorite. And I will be there since 2009, so will be fantastic for my confidence. 

 Q. You seemed to take over in the second set. At what point did you really feel like you had him? 
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, I think I played much better in the second. I was much confidence with my forehand and serves. After you win the first set, you feel sometimes you have the control of the match. It's what I felt today. In the second, I play better. I was trying to do different things. 
 I play well. I hopefully playing much better for my next round. 

 Q. You're in the same quarter at Novak. Is that something you would look forward to eventually facing off against him here? How important would it be to put in a good performance there and win, knowing the US Open is around the corner?
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yeah, I know that. But first I will have to play against Cilic. Will be very difficult match for both. We know each other since juniors. We play many, many times. 
 It's really difficult match for me because he knows everything about my game, and I know many things about his game, too. But first I have to beat him and then I will thinking if I have another match. Before this, Cilic in the next round. 

 Q. What do you think has been the hardest part about coming back after the surgery?
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Everything is tough, you know. In the beginning of the year, I played Sydney, Australian. I lost second rounds in both tournaments. Maybe I saw back the last year when I was in fourth round or quarterfinals. 2010 was completely bad year for me. 
 But I think that was the past. I'm having a good present. I'm trying to improve for my future. I'm still 22 years, so maybe I have a long career with tennis. I have to be careful with my tournaments, my game, and just try to be healthy for play tennis. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT