WIMBLEDON
June 25, 2011
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. DEL POTRO/G. Simon
  7-6, 7-6, 7-5 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. How are you feeling about facing Rafa?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: First I feel glad to beat Simon. Of course on Monday I play against the best player in the world in this moment. It will be a big challenge.   
 But I want to enjoy first my victory of today, and then I will see if I can be in good shape for play against Rafa.   
  
  Q. What do you think you will need to do well?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, against them, you should play unbelievable tennis. You should play everything perfect, and then maybe you have a little chance.   
 But I don't know. Gonna be very tough for me. My first time in fourth round in Wimbledon. I want to treasure this moment.   
  
  Q. But you beat him in the US Open a couple years ago. Tell us how you managed to beat him. What was the difference between you and him?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I don't know. It was two years ago. We play this year in Indian Wells. He won really easy. I don't know if I'm still far away from that level.   
 But he's the No. 1. He will be the big favorite for the next match. Of course, playing fourth round, all the players are tough.   
 But I want to be ready for that match. I don't know if I will have a little chance or not, but I will try to make a good game.   
  
  Q. Despite your ranking, Rafa actually said you're playing like a top-five player. Do you feel like that or do you feel you need a little while before you're back at that level?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: It's not easy be top five. But I'm improving my game every day. That's a good signal for the future. I am still learning on grass. I want to improve my serve, my volley. And maybe for the second part of the year I can be ready for play against all the players at same conditions.   
 But, of course, I want to be at the top as soon as possible. But it's a long, long road.  
  
  Q. What kind of a breakthrough do you think this is for you to reach this round at Wimbledon? Since your injury, this will be the first slam where you've reached the second week.   
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, after two years, I came here once again and I am playing more aggressive than 2009 when I lost against Hewitt. And now is my first time in the fourth round. I beat many good players on grass. I beat Rochus and Simon today in three sets. It's very good for my tennis, for my confidence.   
 But playing on grass, for the South American players, is not easy, you know, but we will try.  
  
  Q. Have you played Centre Court before here?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yes. I played against Federer and Hewitt, I think.   
  
  Q. What are your memories of that arena?   
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, it's a nice atmosphere. The fans are really nice. They will be cheering I think little more for Rafa than for me. But I will enjoy the match and trying to be a nice game for me and for the crowd, too.  
  
  Q. Physically having played every day this week, how are you feeling?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Finally I will have a day off tomorrow, and I will need it, because I will play against Rafa and you need to be 100%.  
  
  Q. How has it felt playing six days in a row at a slam?   
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: No, well, I think I had bad luck this week. Is not usual play all days from Monday to Saturday. But sometimes can happen. Hopefully for the next week, the weather help me a little more.   
 But playing here in Wimbledon, it's really nice. I just want to play whatever, every day if I can.  
  
  Q. How are you going to spend your first day off now?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yeah, I don't know. Of course, I will get up not too early for first thing and then I will practice little bit and take a rest for Monday.  
  
  Q. Do you have a favorite part of London? Have you visited London much?  
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Not too much because I play all days.   
  
  Q. When you came at the O2?   
 JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: It's a beautiful city. The week before Queen's we walk around the Big Ben, that area, it's really nice.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT