NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: SABRES v STARS
June 19, 1999
Stu Barnes
Derian Hatcher
Richard Matvichuk
Michael Peca
Darryl Shannon
Pat Verbeek
Jason Woolley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. You already delivered some big hits. After you one-goal lead. Great defensive team.
Do you change your style at all?
 
 DERIAN HATCHER: Well, yeah, I think that period we pretty fortunate right now to be up
1-0. To be honest with you we have got to do better than that. 
 
Q. Mike, according to our stats you guys outchanced them 2 to 12 in that period yet you
are down 1-0. How frustrating is that and is it too early to open things up in the second?
 
 MICHAEL PECA: No, I don't think so. I think we have done a pretty good job in getting
everybody involved; getting the "D" up. There were a couple of instances where
we thought the "D" picked up a little bit. But it was kind of a fortunate break
on their goal but we feel we are creating enough chances now that we are going to get some
breaks off them. 
 
Q. How did you find it?
 
 DARRYL SHANNON: It wasn't too bad. I knew what to expect. I knew they were coming hard.
It would be tough. Like you say, it has been a long time since I have played. Stayed out
there trying to catch my breath. 
 
Q. What about the partnership with Jay McKee; what are you guys trying to do in order
to meet your requirements?
 
 DARRYL SHANNON: Not let them score, but play a simple game; keep the puck out of your
end. Safe plays. Make safe plays; get it to the forwards and then they will take care of
things. 
 
Q. There is obviously a lot of emotion attached to a game like this. What is the mood
in the dressing room with such a critical game facing you?
 
 DARRYL SHANNON: I think this is -- we faced this the same way we faced all the other
ones; at least we tried to. It is a little more important if we don't get a win we are
done, but we got to be positive, stay upbeat, and just keep pressing them.  
 
Q. That was a tough second period where they finally got the equalizer?
 
 PAT VERBEEK: They were really pressing up a lot, kind of got us on our heals, and we
were missing the puck a lot. We had a lot of faceoffs in our zone and they were really
able to keep the pressure on. They were really pinching our defense quite a bit and so we
are going to have to counteract this period. 
 
Q. I know your team loves playing with a one-goal lead, but now it is tied. How do you
approach the last period?
 
 PAT VERBEEK: Well, We just have to get back to our aggressive game. We have been kind
of not forechecking the way we normally do and we got to get back to that. 
 
Q. You have some margin of error here that you are not in the other locker room. Are
you more cautious this next period or just go for it the way they will?
 
 RICHARD MATVICHUK: We are playing for our life. We got 20 minutes. It can be any team's
victory here. We have 20 minutes to push, push, push and that is what we are going to do.
We are not going to sit back on our heals. We have got to go for it. 
 
Q. Good luck in, I am sure, what you hope to be the last period of hockey this season?
 
 RICHARD MATVICHUK: I sure hope so. It has been a long Christmas Eve and we are going to
do our best; see what happens. 
 
Q. 5 on 5 goals have been tough to come by, but Stu Barnes has got one. Do you guys
feel like you are getting ripped off? You have outplayed Dallas completely tonight,
winning faceoffs; everything going your way yet you are still tied in the hockey game.
 
 STU BARNES: They are a great hockey club. We have to be at our absolute, absolute best
to have any chance. Like I said, we are trying to go out and do our best. 
 
Q. Have you thought about Derian Hatcher skating around with the Cup at the end of the
next period on your ice?
 
 STU BARNES: No, we haven't thought about that at all. All we are thinking about is
getting this game and forcing Game 7.  
 
Q. Tremendous tension; that is for the folks watching on TV. Here in the building can
you describe what it feels like to be on the bench late in the third tied at 1?
 
 JASON WOOLLEY: I tell you when you are out there you try and not to be -- not to be
that guy not to make that mistake. But that is not the mindset. You have got to be going
for it; you have got to push for it. We have our backs against the wall here. We have got
to win this game, so, don't worry about mistakes; just go try to get the puck in; throw it
at the net, you never know what happens in the third. 
 
Q. How do you play OT?
 
 JASON WOOLLEY: I don't know if you change too much. I think you just keep going at
them. We are always going to have a good high guy that is important here, but keep
shooting, try to get those pucks through they do a real good job of blocking maybe one
fake and try and find someone off the side of the net or something, we need a bounce here. 
 
Q. Who is the man in the room that is going to get it?
 
 JASON WOOLLEY: I don't know who is going to get it as long as he is on our team, I
don't care. 
 STU BARNES: I don't know if you change too much. I think you just keep going at them.
Continuing to work hard and do our best and we are getting the chances; hopefully one will
go for us. 
 
Q. You got the goal here, but can you you illustrate how difficult it is to get through
that neutral zone against Dallas?
 
 STU BARNES: They do a great job in the neutral zone. They really clog it up and they
are skilled players, so it makes it dangerous on turnovers so you got to be careful. 
 
Q. Any kind of alteration that you will make to your game in the extra period; dramatic
situation?
 
 STU BARNES: Just keep playing hard; keep going it the best we can and give it our best. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT