NASCAR XFINITY SERIES: FORD ECOBOOST 300
November 17, 2018
Christopher Bell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: We will start our post‑race press conference with the driver of the No.20 GameStop Transformers Toyota, and that's Christopher Bell. Christopher, obviously did not end the way you wanted it to. Maybe take us through the race, especially the last 20 or so laps.   
CHRISTOPHER BELL: Yeah, ultimately just wasn't fast enough tonight. It's disappointing to end our season like that, but really proud of everyone at Joe Gibbs Racing and everyone on this team 20 group. They work really hard to bring really fast race cars to the track every single week, and winning seven races is something that I'm super proud of and super thankful for and wouldn't trade the world for.   
Excited to get back and do it again in February.   
   
 Q. Christopher, first, Custer got out of the car and immediately said that he was a little at a loss for how well red I can could run the top lane compared to everybody else and felt like that was a bit of an edge the 9 team had. What were you missing to be able to run that top groove because I know you were committed to the bottom for a lot of that race.   
CHRISTOPHER BELL: Yeah, just for whatever reason, I didn't have the rear grip to run the top. Every time I went up there, I would almost spin out. I don't know. It's disappointing, and it was really frustrating, especially the first half of the race, watching those guys drive away from me running the top, and I felt like I could get better if I moved up there, but even whenever I was up there I wasn't any good, so it didn't matter. Yeah, I was good on the bottom for moments and we had glimpses of hope, but we just weren't fast enough.  
   
 Q. I know you said before the race you're glad you got another year with these guys, and you just said a minute ago you're ready to get back at it at Daytona, but are you ready to get after it next week at Turkey Night?  
CHRISTOPHER BELL: Yeah, I'm really thankful I get to go dirt racing next week.   
   
 Q. You kind of mentioned this, that this is a track you feel like you need to learn better or figure things out. Do you think that that played into it, too? Is this a place now in your mind that this is a focus to work at or to get better?   
CHRISTOPHER BELL: Definitely. I mean, I need to get better here. Last year I won the truck championship here, so that's my one glimmer of hope or glimmer of fame that I've got here at this racetrack. But I don't know. I don't know what we missed today or what I missed. But I missed something, that's for sure.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT