SEMGROUP CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY JOHN Q. HAMMONS
May 3, 2007
Stacy Prammanasudh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   PAM WARNER:  Stacy, thanks for coming in and joining us today.  You're here home playing in Tulsa this week at the SemGroup Championship.  Just talk about first being here playing at home on your home course. 
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  It's always nice to come home and have the hometown support and to introduce me as, you know, "pride of Oklahoma," which was a little -- kind of touched my heart yesterday when I teed off. 
 So, you know, Oklahoma is home and I love being here and I love playing in front of my hometown crowd and just excited to get the week started. 
 PAM WARNER:  You've had a great season so far, you won back at the Fields Open in February and have had five Top-10 finishes.  Just talk about your year so far. 
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  Well, it definitely has been a good start.  I cannot complain about my previous performances.  But it is a long season and I'm not trying to get ahead of myself.  You've just got to try to continue what you've been doing well and work on what you haven't been doing well in the past. 
 So that's really all I've been working on and, you know, you just can't sit there and think about, oh, I've been playing well.  You've got to continue playing well, and that's the key out here. 

 Q.  It looks like every year you climb a little higher on the Money List, is it just a matter of playing, getting out there and playing and experience and that kind of stuff? 
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  Well, you know, we play a lot of the same courses over the years, and that obviously helps, playing the courses more than one or two times. 
 But at the same time, I guess just being out here and practicing all the time and knowing what it takes to compete out here.  I mean, your first year, you kind of come out here and you just kind of go through the motions and not really knowing what to expect. 
 But once you've been out here for a few years, I think you know what it takes and you've had a chance to play with many of the players out here and learn from everybody else and also know yourself on and off the golf course. 

 Q.  Does it feel like this is one of your best chances because of the way you've been playing this year? 
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  Well, I'd love to think so, you know, but you have to just try to maintain what you've been doing throughout the season; if you've been doing things well, and that's ultimately what I'm trying to do is just stay more consistent. 
 Obviously I go into every event trying to win, and so does everybody else.  But it's a very difficult thing to do is keep winning.  You've just got to work hard and stay patient. 

 Q.  Is it difficult to keep that consistency more so here where you have more distractions? 
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  There are a few extracurricular things going on this week, but you just know that.  I mean, when you're playing at home, you know, people want more autographs and that type of thing.  It's good to have the support, so I can't complain about it. 

 Q.  How will this course play with all of the rain we've had?  Does that meet your strengths or counter your strengths to a certain degree? 
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  Well, I tend to hit it a little higher, so I think off the tees that would help, just because I will get a little more carry.  I don't rely on roll so much.  But nobody is going to be getting roll.  I don't carry it that far, so I don't see a significant advantage. 
 Plus, you know it's going to be playing difficult for everybody.  If the wind picks up, there's a whole other variable in things.  It's extremely wet, and apparently it was pouring down out here this morning; I wasn't out here.  But it's going to be long and the greens are going to be receptive.  You can throw a long iron club to the pin, so there should be plenty of birdies being made. 

 Q.  Last year Cristie Kerr comes in here, sets a course record; talk about that from last year, and there's been talk of change -- how do you see the greens this year? 
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  Obviously Cristie -- it was a 61; correct?  I don't know how she did it.  I watched the playback on the news that evening.  She wasn't hitting it to two feet.  She was making 40-footers left and right. 
 When you get hot like that, then the hole looks like a five-gallon bucket.  Everybody loves to have one of those days, and she was on that day. 
 But, you know, with the greens being softer this year, you can fly right at the stick and if the greens aren't playing as fast as what they could, if it was firm and fast.  You know, I think you can be more aggressive with your putts and have a couple more looks at birdies. 

 Q.  How often do you play out here and how comfortable are you on Cedar Ridge? 
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  Well, Cedar Ridge obviously has the best practice facility in Tulsa, I think.  So when I do come out here, most of my time is spend chipping and on the pitching green or on the putting green.  I don't play a whole lot when I come out here.  It's mostly just to practice. 
 I tried to get out here a few weeks ago, played nine here or there.  It was definitely a different golf course at that time. 
 So tournament week is always a little different. 

 Q.  Have you tried the indoor facility yet? 
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  No, it wasn't completed when I was out here, I think it was three weeks ago.  So, yeah, excited to get down there. 

 Q.  I assume that Pete, your husband; still your caddie.  For some couples, that works out good and for some it doesn't work out so good.  How has it been working out for you guys? 
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  Right now I've been playing well and had just one off-week.  When you're playing well, things are going great; it's easy out there.  When you're having an off-week, it's a little difficult, but you've just got to know going into it that you've got to leave the golf and work at the golf course. 
 Off the golf course, you know we go to movies and we do other things and in Hawaii we did an ADV tour, and so traveling is a lot more enjoyable because there's someone to share different experiences with, so we're having a great time. 

 Q.  That seem to be the trick is leaving it at home; how do you do that? 
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  We don't really talk about it at all.  Maybe in the car driving out of the golf course but that's it.  I don't watch golf other than playing it, so, I mean, it's not like we go back home and wait for the coverage to come on and watch to see what I was doing or anything like that.  I literally don't want to talk about it once I leave. 

 Q.  Has it helped because you grew up with your dad being your caddie?  Very seldom have you had a stranger be your confidant on the golf course. 
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  Definitely.  With your dad, he is your father and you can't speak to him in certain manners that you could just any other caddie, you know, so it does help in situations like that where I'm frustrated and he's frustrated.  You know, you've just got to learn to communicate between each other, and I think that having dad on the bag before Pete has really helped. 
 And we've talked to Pete about what to expect as far as the caddie and what he needs to do and different things like that.  So we've talked about it before we actually decided to do it. 

 Q.  Half-serious; do you pay Pete to be your caddie? 
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  He does get paid.  He definitely gets paid. 

 Q.  How different are he and your dad as caddies?  Is there a different dynamic or similar? 
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  I think it's a similar situation in the fact that I'm the same person on the golf course.  I mean, I don't talk a lot when I'm out there playing.  I'm not a Chatty Cathy to all of the other players. 
 Off the golf course or when we're practicing, I'll chat you up all day long.  But for some reason when I'm on the golf course, it's all business.  I'm out there to do my thing. 
 So, no, I don't really speak to Pete much and he know that is.  He's played and watched me play competitive golf and so he knew that going in. 

 Q.  Can you talk about the week that you won?  That was kind of a difficult week for a lot of people.  Do you remember what went through your mind and what happened here affected you during that week? 
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  Well, I got an e-mail from Jody Anschutz who played here -- I don't know when she played, but that said that Jim was in the hospital.  So I think that might have been Friday.  It was late in the week.  And so I called Melissa, she was at the hospital.  She told me all about it and we boo-hooed on the phone for a while. 
 I didn't find out until Sunday afterwards that he had actually passed.  So, you know, we had talked about it and I really, honestly thought about him on Sunday what I was playing.  I'm like, you know, if it doesn't happen for me today, at least I've got my life. 

 Q.  What are your thoughts on the new No. 1 player? 
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  Well, I mean she was a dominant player last year and she's a great player and she's leading the Money List this year.  She does deserve to be up there.  I don't play a whole lot of attention to the World Rankings just because I'm not a stats person.  But, I mean, to be No. 1 is an incredible accomplishment and she does definitely deserve it. 
 Obviously Annika has had a lot of success here at this event and I know the event misses her, but she's injured and hopefully she's recuperating and she'll be back out soon. 

 Q.  Would you have considered anybody but Pete when you switched to a different caddie? 
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  I really wasn't looking to change.  Pete had mentioned, you know, he'd like to give it a shot, and Dad obviously is not very young. 
 So we had just kind of talked about it, and I had talked to Dad about, "what do you think if Pete came out."  He didn't have any hard feelings about it at all.  Lugging a 60-pound bag around isn't something you really want to do every day.  He didn't have any problems with it, and Pete wanted a chance.  Kids aren't in the picture right now, so timing was good for us. 

 Q.  What kind of score do you expect this week overall? 
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  I'm shooting for 3-under a day and see where that puts me. 
 They are calling for wind; I don't really know.  So, you know, just wake up, see what the conditions are like and go from there. 
 PAM WARNER:  Thank you, Stacy. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT