FIELDS OPEN IN HAWAII
February 24, 2007
Stacy Prammanasudh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   PAM WARNER:  Stacy, thanks for coming in and joining us, and congratulations on winning the Fields Open in Hawaii.  I guess just talk about your second career victory.   
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  I think it's definitely more bittersweet than the first.  You know, the first kind of came upon me by surprise.  You know, I wasn't expecting to win so early, and then you know you put in a lot of hard work to try to get that second one.  I'm definitely glad that I played well enough to come out on top today.   
 PAM WARNER:  Can we go over your score card?  You birdied 1.   
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  I hit a gap wedge to about five feet.   
 2 was a 4-iron to eight feet.   
 I bogeyed 3.  I missed the green with a 7-iron.   
 5, I hit the green in two with 5-iron, two putts, birdie.    
  
  Q.  How far was your first putt?   
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  40, 45 feet.   
  
  Q.  And what did you have left?   
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  Six feet.   
 11 was a gap wedge about six feet.   
 13, I hit just barely on the front edge of the green in two with a 3-wood and two putts, birdie.   
 PAM WARNER:  How long would you say the first putt was?   
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  30, 35.   
  
  Q.  Did you feel the gals behind you chasing you and were you trying to hold them off or were you trying to stay above them -- you took a two-shot lead early, what was your mentality going into the round?   
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  I mean, 18 holes is a lot of time out there.  It's four or five hours of concentration that you have got to keep yourself together.  With the way the talent is on our tour, I mean, you can't really let your mind slack at all.  And that's what I was really focused on was just being really in the moment, focusing on each one of my targets and just keeping my minds focused on what I needed to do.   
  
  Q.  Did you have an aggressive mentality or were you just, let's not do anything stupid to kind of lose it?   
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  No, I mean, I didn't really change my game plan going into today.  I knew you had to be under par, at least, to even have a chance with the rain and playing softer.  I had not been out on the course like the other two girls who finished this morning.  I didn't have a feel for the course when I first stepped out there.   
 Jee Young is a long ball-striker and I knew she would have an advantage on par 5s.  Luckily I just got a couple of birdies early and put the pressure on.   
  
  Q.  You're 27, still young, but these girls are 18 and 21; do you feel that your experience kind of paid off?   
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  You know, Jee Young, I think she might be on Tour the same number of years I have.  Angela, I knew it was a new situation for her.   
 I had been in a situation one other time and I was just trying to pull on those experiences and maintain myself out there on the golf course.  You know, it's difficult and it's intense, but you know, you just find something within yourself to make it through.   
  
  Q.  When you got those first two birdies, were you kind of thinking, 'Hey, this will be a pretty good day?'   
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  No, you know, because you're excited about two birdies right out of get-go.  But there's still 16 other difficult holes out there, and you just can't get ahead of yourself.  So I just tried to keep breathing and go about my business.   
  
  Q.  Breathing?   
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  Yeah, that was the problem, just not letting my emotions get too up or down.   
  
  Q.  Your emotions, when you get excited, do you hyperventilate or are you breathing heavy or what?   
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  No, I mean, when anybody gets excited, your breathing changes.  I mean, as long as you can regulate your heartbeat out there, I'm not freaking out out there or anything.  (Laughter).   
  
  Q.  What's it like working with your husband and the first time you worked with him in a real pressure tournament situation.   
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  He caddied for me when I won my first FUTURES Tour event five years ago or something crazy.  So we've worked together sporadically a couple of times here and there.  But yeah, for the permanent situation the first time, the first time we've been in this situation on the LPGA.   
  
  Q.  When it got to be kind of crunch time or pressure time, did you look at each other or not look at each other?   
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  No, I mean, he's just basically, you know, there for support.  You know, we talk about clubs and yardages and all that.  But I'm ultimately making the final decision.   
 You know, he's there to back me up if I have questions or help me read greens, and that's what caddies are for.  They are there to make you feel comfortable on the golf course in situations where there's a lot of pressure and things like that.  So I'm very pleased to have had him on the bag and very excited to share it with him.   
  
  Q.  When it started getting pressurized, did you talk more than usually do or less than usually do?   
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  No, we didn't change anything.  On 17, we were in-between clubs and I mean, we spent a little more time over that shot.  But for the most part, we didn't -- he didn't mention anything out of the usual.   
  
  Q.  Was it frustrating at all to not be able to put more distance between you and the other players or was that balanced by the fact they couldn't close on you?   
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  Well, I gave myself a lot of good opportunities on those closing holes.  I just didn't hit them hard enough, a couple putts, and, you know, luckily they didn't capitalize on their opportunities as well.  So I got lucky, I guess.   
  
  Q.  You had a long wait before your final round while the other players got in a few holes this morning.  Obviously didn't hurt you.  Did you do anything that helped you?   
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  Ironically it was the exact same situation for my first win.  There was a rain delay, similar situation.  I was not involved in the delay.  First win, I was not involved in the delay; the second win.   
 You know, we played cards last night with Pat Hurst and her husband and just had a relaxing evening and good night's rest, and packed up the room and went and had a nice sit-down breakfast this morning and got to the golf course and did my usual routine.   
  
  Q.  Do you feel like you hit any loose shots out there today?   
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  I missed that green on 3, which I was in the rough.  I didn't feel like it was a bad swing.  It just might have come out a little differently than I had anticipated.   
 But, no, I was very pleased with my ball-striking today especially with the changes we're trying to make, and you never know how well it's going to stack up under the gun.   
 I'm just really excited that I was able to maintain myself out there and remember what I was trying to do.   
  
  Q.  How did you put on the changes you've made and the work, it has been, what, seven months that you've been with the coach?   
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  No.  I've seen him five times since --   
  
  Q.  December?   
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  December, middle of December.   
  
  Q.  So how much of that is responsible for what happened today?   
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  I feel a lot more confident over it, even though it is a little different and you're not 100% positive of everything.  I think in the long run with what I'm looking at, it's definitely going to help me for years to come.   
  
  Q.  Other than the last putt on the last green, was there a decisive point out there for you somewhere today?   
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  When I have that like 6- or 8-footer on 15, and Jee Young knocked it by about four or five feet, I feel like if I made that, then it was pretty much over.  I just didn't hit it hard enough.  You know, the greens were getting a little hairier late in the afternoon with the grain.  I guess I didn't take it into consideration enough.  But she made her par putt and then I made a good par save on the next hole.   
  
  Q.  When you're making these swing changes, was there any point that you felt like you wouldn't -- were more comfortable with the way you were before or were you able to make yourself swing that way at any point; was there any point that you thought that you might have gone back to what you were doing before?   
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  No, because I know what happens with -- you know, my swing may not look different at all on TV.  But it feels different, and so I guess it's what needs to be done.   
 I was confident with the way I was swinging before.  It just it doesn't hold up for, you know, all eight months of the season.  I need to make it tighter and more compact, and that's what we're trying to do.   
 You know, you've just got to understand that things are not going to be perfect for a few months.  Luckily, things turned out for the better today.  But, you know, next week, next month could be completely different.   
  
  Q.  When did you go to the belly putter and why?   
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  I went to the belly putter the Turtle Bay of 2006; so a year and a week now.   
 I was really -- I cut it -- broke (inaudible) with my putt conventional, and I was just playing with a friend who is also a head pro back home.  I couldn't hit the hole from two feet, it was ridiculous, one day.  He had me hit -- he was like, "Just putt with your 3-wood like a belly putter."  I was like, all right.  And it felt decent, and I was going out to Ping the next week and I just got fit for one.  He said, "Get fit for one, at least you can practice with it to get the feel of things."    
 Brought it back home, made everything the first week; played great, first tournament.  So can't turn back now.   
  
  Q.  First of all, what card game did you play?   
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  Spades.   
  
  Q.  Did you win?   
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  Yes, we did.  (Laughter).   
  
  Q.  Okay.  Moving on, have you talked to your dad at all this week or last night?   
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  No, you know, I talked to them, Mom and Dad once last week after the first or second round, I can't remember.  I was kind of leaving it up to them to call.  You know, I don't want to call and be like, "I played good," you know what I mean.  I'm sure there are messages on my phone right now but no, I haven't heard from them at all this week.   
  
  Q.  Can you tell the story of Bill Harmon?   
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  I was playing a practice round with Nicole Castrale at the U.S. Open.  And Bill has been Nicole's teacher from when she was little from what I understand.  I wasn't striking it well going into the Open, and I was just kind of, you know, I was talking with him, walking up the fairway.  I was like, "Yeah, let me know if you see anything."  I was just joking.  He's not there for me; he's there for her.  I just threw it out there; why not.   
 A couple of holes later he mentioned my grip looked too strong with my right hand, and that's all I focused on the remainder of the season, and that literally changed my season right there.  Any other person that's ever commented on my swing has always been like your position here and here.  I mean, he was completely totally simple about it.   
 And that's what I was looking -- you know, I had always thought about going to see somebody, but was reluctant to because I don't swing like anybody else.  I can't go to somebody who teaches a certain swing because that's not going to work for me.  I told my husband and my dad about what Bill had told me.  Dad was there, of course, and we decided that the off-season we were going to see what he -- go see him, see what he said and see how it worked out.   
 He explained things the way I can understand it.  I've not sought out lessons very much in the previous years, but any of the golf pros back home or anybody I ever talk to, it doesn't sink in what they are saying.  And this is the first person I kind of got it and he can explain what causes me to hit that shot at the time; "you need to swing like this."   
  
  Q.  Have you talked to him at all this week?   
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  Text messages.   
  
  Q.  What did he say?  Did he say it looks good?   
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  No, he didn't say anything about how anything looked.  He just said, "go out, go get 'em, great round," that sort of thing.   
  
  Q.  Seems like it's been a long time between wins for you or a short time?   
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  No.  I mean, I had my best season I had in my career last year.  You know, I didn't come out with a win, but you know, there's a lot of learning throughout the '06 season and get over a couple of hurdles as far as performing in the Open, which I haven't done well in the past in that event.  It's all a learning process and just baby steps you've got to take to get to where you want to go.   
  
  Q.  Did it seem like it had been a long interval between wins?   
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  No, you can't force these type of things.  The competition is so good out here that you have to be on top of your game 100% of the time to be able to come out with a win.  And, you know, you get lucky every once in a while and play great and you come out on top.   
  
  Q.  Are you going to see Harmon again on the way back through or are you finished with him for a while?   
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  No, we're going there tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  When will you do to celebrate?   
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  No, we have a flight.  We have a red eye, nothing.  Black and white on the plane maybe, I don't know.  Might need to upgrade.   
  
  Q.  If I was in your guys' position, I would be bugging the hell out of my wife.  How did you guys know that was going to work or how did you make it work or is he just better than the average husband in that aspect?   
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  Well, I think he knows me well enough of how I am on the golf course.  I don't talk a lot.  I'm not one of those persons that I have to be chitchatty all the time to keep my nerves intact.   
 I think he did a fantastic job out there today for it being his first time in that situation on the LPGA.  We didn't change anything.  He didn't try to, you know, say too much or back off too much.  He did exactly what he did the previous two days, which is all you can ask for from a caddie is to just be there for you.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT