FIELDS OPEN IN HAWAII
February 23, 2007
Stacy Prammanasudh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   PAM WARNER:  Thanks for coming in and joining us.  Still in the lead at 10-under.  You shot 4-under today.  Just talk about how you played today.   
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  Today was definitely not a great day out there.  I managed to make some birdies when I could.  But I had a couple rocky holes, as well, and just kind of up and down.  And I hit it really close coming in and didn't capitalize on some short birdie putts, so it was a little bit frustrating.  Hopefully just going to get out there and hopefully work on things this afternoon and see how it all works out.   
 PAM WARNER:  Can we go over your score card?   
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  Yeah.  No. 1, like a 30-yard chip to about four feet.   
 No. 2 I missed the green with a 6-iron, no up-and-down.   
 No. 4, I hit a horrible tee shot and was way left.  I hit a 5-iron.  By the grace of God, somehow by ball hit the pin and went in.  It was at least a 30-yard shot, through the trees.  Don't know how it went in.  But I'll take it.   
 5, I hit a 4-iron just long of the green in the bunker and the bunker shot was about five or six feet.   
 6, missed the green left with 7-iron.  Didn't get up-and-down.  I missed like a 4-footer.   
 8 was a 9-iron to about eight feet.   
 10 was a 9-iron, another five or six feet.   
 13, I chipped up to a foot.   
 16, I missed the green right with a 5-iron, no up-and-down.   
 17 was a pitching wedge to about four feet.   
  
  Q.  Can you tell us where the near misses were?   
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  On 14, I had like five feet, missed it.  15 was another five or six feet.  One was high side, one was low side.  16, the par putt, was another five or six.   
  
  Q.  Morgan heard the rain and said that was a good call on her part; did you guys get together and make sure the skies held?   
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  Yeah, we worked on that.  No, I mean, listening to the weather last night, they said periods of heavy rain.  You know, in Hawaii, you can get rain any time.  And it was beautiful out there until, I mean, literally just now.  The wind switched a little bit, so that probably was an indicator that things were changing.  But luckily I was able to finish.   
  
  Q.  Did the wind die down a little at the end of your round?   
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  Yeah, like the last six holes, the wind died down and it actually started switching directions.  A couple -- Nancy Scranton and I were talking and we were like, what was the wind doing on 12, that was so weird.  After that, it switched and really kind of died down.   
  
  Q.  What would be the most compelling difference with your husband on the bag, as opposed to your dad?   
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  You know, I do a lot of my own yardages and pace off everything myself anyways.  Dad and my husband both are just there for a second opinion.  You know, I read all the greens myself and do my yardages, pick my own clubs.  If I have a question, then I ask.  You know, they are equally as comforting on the golf course.   
  
  Q.  When your dad was on the bag, would you go home and talk about golf with your husband?  Do you still do that or do you just leave all that on the course?   
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  No, we don't really talk about anything off the golf course.  I don't look at my stats.  I don't do anything.   
  
  Q.  And he never really gave you much advice off the course?   
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  After our round we would go out and work on things and after we left the golf course, and that was it.   
  
  Q.  You had I think seven birdies and you said you missed a couple, how did you set yourself up for such a strong birdie round?   
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  You know, with the wind not being as strong today, you knew in your mind it was going to be more scorable than yesterday.  If you just give yourself opportunities, the greens really are not that undulated.  They are a little slower than last week, so you can be more aggressive with your putts.   
 It just wasn't happening for me today, when I did hit it close, and then I made a couple here and there.  You know, some of the par 5s are definite birdie holes.  So, you know, it plays easier.   
  
  Q.  The afternoon groups are obviously not over yet, but when was the last time you were leading after the second day, heading into the final round, and what's your strategy going into the final round?   
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  I really don't know the last time I was leading.  Just to keep doing a lot of the same.  I'm making the birdies.  I've got to continue doing that.  There's too many tough competitors behind me.  Luckily I have a couple of strokes.  If I can just go out and play my own game, I think things should be fine.   
  
  Q.  How does your game rate right now, I think 2005 was your win, how does it compare to that?   
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  You know, it's so early in the season, I can't really say.  I mean, I've gotten more consistent since 2005 and I'm working on definitely perfecting the consistency thing.   
 But, you know, I'm just happy to be where I am and just to even have a lot at winning another title is great.   
  
  Q.  When you won at Franklin, did you lead that one, also?   
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  Yeah, I think I was wire-to-wire.   
  
  Q.  Might that have been the last time you led going into the final day?   
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  I don't know if I was leading last year at Turtle Bay or not going into the last day.  If I wasn't leading, I was like one behind or something close.  But yeah, that was probably the last time.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT