JOHN Q. HAMMONS HOTEL CLASSIC
September 6, 2006
Stacy Prammanasudh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PAM WARNER:  Stacy, thank you for joining us today.  You're here at home in Oklahoma.  Talk about being back here.
STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  It's always great to come home, there's a lot of hometown friends and family and friends out.  It's a big week and we're excited to have such a great golf course, and good to stay in your own bed, of course.
PAM WARNER:  You've had a great season so far coming off a tie for second at Wendy's a few weeks ago, do you just want to talk about your season so far?
STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  I'm very pleased.  I put in the belly putter at the beginning of the year and that seemed to really help and I've been striking the ball well.  So trying to keep it going throughout the end of the season.
Q.  Inaudible?
STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  Broken Arrow.  Well, I'm originally from Oklahoma.  So it's always been home.  I'm pretty much a six hour flight from any site we ever go to.  I don't have to travel all the way across country to get home like girls on the east or West Coast, and I like it.
Q.  Inaudible?
STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  Yeah, I don't go back a whole lot, but yeah if I need to.
Q.  Have you had any other caddies other than your dad, or has your dad been your caddie through your entire professional career?
STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  Dad's been with me the whole time, yeah.
Q.  Just talk about the advantages having your dad be your caddie?
STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  Well, he's been the only person to ever caddie for me even in the junior tournaments.  My husband caddied for me twice, once here in Tulsa when I was a sponsor's exemption and once on the FUTURES TOUR.  My dad has always been my coach.  He got myself and my sister into the game, so he's just been there every step of the way, so it's just a comfort factor.
Q.  How does that dynamic work when you're on the golf course with your dad, does father know best?
STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  Well, it's just pretty much any other player/caddie relationship.  He's there to reaffirm or give me an answer if I'm confused.  But for the most part I'm making the final decisions; I'm hitting the shot.
Q.  Inaudible?
STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  Are you getting at what happened on TV a couple weeks ago?  No, no, we get along great.
Q.  That final day at the U.S. Open, making all those par putts and staying in contention, how was he helping you not let the enormity of the tournament; that can be overwhelming?
STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  We really didn't talk a whole lot that day.  I mean, there was a lot of wind and stuff.  We just talked about the clubs.

Other than that, I didn't look at a leaderboard myself because I didn't    I was comfortable with where I was and how I was playing.  So I didn't want to change my emotions at all by looking at a leaderboard and going, oh, my God, I'm in second place or whatever at the Open.

So that was kind of the situation that we were in.  It was just like any other tournament.
Q.  How does your dad feel?  I bet he's tickled to death to be part of this.
STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  It's a lot of work for him.  He'll be 68 in October, so it's not easy carrying that big 'ole bag.
Q.  Better that than    inaudible?
STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  He's technically retired but slaving away caring a 70 pound golf bag.  I'm sure he'd like a day of retirement here and there.
Q.  What's his name?
STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  Provat.
Q.  I'm sure you cut him a large percentage?
STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  Oh, yes.
Q.  Would you consider this your home course or do you have a home course?
STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  When I'm home doing a lot of the practicing, I'm out here at Cedar Ridge.  But we're also over at Indian Springs and we have more friends out at Indian Springs, so if we have groups going out, we play at Indian Springs.
Q.  Inaudible?
STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  We have bermuda here, so fairways and rough are    the rough is just brutal, straight up and you think you have a nice line and it's not that easy or coming up just from the bottom.  Other parts of the country, the rough is a little more, I guess you could anticipate the lies a little more.  With bermuda, it can fly; you can stuff it.
Q.  The first few years the tournament was here, Melissa said once the Tour came here, she feels it's all people talked about for a while and what a great stop it was.  She said she knew because she was from here but she says she's not surprised how big of a success this tournament has been, and it's not a surprise to you either that it's such a huge success?
STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  Tulsa is a great community for golf.  There's so many great golf courses around the city, and numerous other public facilities, as well.  So a lot of golf and people involved in golf in the City of Tulsa and the surrounding area.  So, no, I don't think it's a surprise at all.
Q.  Did you play your first year as an amateur?
STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  I played two years on a sponsor's exemption.
Q.  Two months after the U.S. Open, sponsorships and everything else, impressive record, we had no idea you could pull this off or not, and two months after the U.S. Open, here with the tournament?
STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  Yeah, it's nice to have all of the support and everything from the companies here in Tulsa to put on such a good event.
Q.  How does Cedar Ridge compare to some of the regular stops?
STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  Besides the majors, they make it more difficult for us.  So a regular stop on the Tour, this is probably one of the hardest golf courses we will play all year.
Q.  Why is that?
STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  The rough grows up; it's narrow; it's long; the greens are subtle breaks.  It's just a tougher golf course, and if the wind blows at all, it makes it that much tougher.
Q.  Playing here in July and August when it was a hundred degrees every day, how different is the course now in these conditions, as opposed to what it could have been?
STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  I wasn't home during all the heat, so thank goodness I didn't have to deal with it.  But obviously the cooler temperatures are helping with the course conditions.

So it's just going it get that much nicer and the rough is going to get that much thicker.
Q.  Money wise, this is your best year on Tour, is this a natural progression or is there a reason?
STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  I've been playing well.  I haven't won, but you keep putting yourself in position, getting yourself up there, you reward yourself on the Money List.  But we've also had a couple tournaments with bigger purses; so more money to be won.
Q.  What would it mean for to you win here just a few miles from why you live?
STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  It would be incredible, all of my family and friend and the local support here and everybody just cheering me on would be amazing.
Q.  Any idea how many friends and family you might have watching you this week?
STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  Just immediate family and friends probably ten, 15.  But certainly people that I've known from Indian springs and Tulsa and everything else, too.
Q.  Did you practice much this week here?
STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  No, they wouldn't let us on the course until Monday, and then they had a Monday qualifier.  So today was my first day on the golf course.
PAM WARNER:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT