SEMGROUP CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY JOHN Q. HAMMONS
April 29, 2008
Stacy Prammanasudh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: All right, Stacy P, thanks for waiting. We appreciate it.   
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH: Yep.  
 THE MODERATOR: Back in Tulsa again. I know you probably answer this question every year, but how does it feel to be back?   
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH: It's always great to come home. The tournament just keeps get better and better, and it's always just exciting to be a part of it. It being here in my backyard is just a pleasure.  
 THE MODERATOR: You've got two top 10 finishes this year and two career wins. You've put together a nice career so far. What would it mean to win in Tulsa?   
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH: That would probably be the highlight of my career, I would have to say. It's a busy week. You got family and friends in and a lot more stuff going on, so it's a little different than a normal tournament week.   
 It would be awesome to be able to win here in front of everybody that's been supporting me for so long.   
 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Stacy?   
  
  Q. Do you feel any more pressure because you're playing here on your home course?   
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH: In previous years I have, but, you know, I've kind of realized now that I don't really to prove myself to anybody. Everybody is here just to support me. I appreciate that, and it's just good to play here and enjoy having everybody out there cheering for me.  
  
  Q. Talk about your game, where you are right now, if you're playing well or maybe struggling.   
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH: Obviously I haven't played really great in previous starts. Couple good tournaments, but been struggling with the putter. I've switched that up, so hopefully things will click soon. Been striking it well, so got to only be a matter of time.   
  
  Q. You played pretty well in Florida last week, didn't you? Were you happy there?   
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH: Do what?   
  
  Q. You were in Florida last week?  
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH: Yes.   
  
  Q. How did you play there?  
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH: The golf course was interesting, and the format was a little more interesting. You know, it was my first time playing an event like that, and it was probably the first time for most people. It was just different.   
 It took a little getting used to. The pin placements, the way they set up the golf course was a little questionable, but, you know, it was that way for everybody.   
 We all had to deal with it. It was a beautiful golf course in great shape, and it was a good event to have. Just a little interesting.   
  
  Q. How long have you been playing at Cedar Ridge? Do you remember when you first played it?  
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH: In college was the first time I came out here. We were out here every Tuesday in college.  
  
  Q. What kind of an edge does that give you?  
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH: Yeah, I mean, I might have a little more local knowledge than the other girls. But at the same time, I'm not out here every day. I don't know every blade of grass. I'd like to say I have a little bit of an advantage.  
  
  Q. Everybody is talking about Lorena right now. In your first tour win you beat her, right, you held her off? If it comes done to that this weekend, can you rely on that experience at all?  
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH: Well, yeah. When you're in the thick of the moment you're going to try to pull on past experiences. Obviously she's playing phenomenal golf right now and it will take phenomenal golf to beat her. We all know that. She's definitely proven herself as the world No. 1.   
 You know, she's the person everybody is going to look at and she sets the standard. You got to play your best golf to be able to win out here, and that's what it's going to take.  
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH: Yes.   
  
  Q. Does your dad make many tournaments?  
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH: No, they're coming out this week and then they're going to Williamsburg next week. I think he's enjoying his retirement at home and not having to worry about what I'm doing so much.  
  
  Q. When you left to join the tour, are you about where you thought you would be in your career? Are you satisfied?  
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH: Yeah. I mean, I didn't really know what to expect when I came on tour right after college. You know, I mean, I don't think anybody knows what to expect. I had Melissa as my coach my last two years. She's tried to guide me in the right direction, but nobody knows if they're every really ready and what to expect once you get out here.   
 I've been very pleased with where my career has taken me, and been very blessed.   
  
  Q. How long you going to stay out here?  
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH: I don't have any idea. I don't know. It depends on children and if that comes about.   
  
  Q. Could that come about?  
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH: Oh, yeah. Yeah.   
  
  Q. Because I think I read an article where you were thinking about maybe early retirement.   
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH: I don't want to be out here for another 15, definitely not. I've already played for twenty some odd years of my life and I'm only 28. Once kids come about, or if they do, then that's the next chapter.   
  
  Q. You going to stay here and live do you think, at Broken Arrow?  
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH: Oh, yeah.   
  
  Q. I read recently did you made an equipment manufacturer change.   
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH: Oh, yeah. I knew that was going to come up. It was not something I had every anticipated doing, or wanted to do for that matter. But I got a new sponsor, which I forget to take off my sweater earlier obviously. And it was just a situation where Ping has had a long-standing company policy about alcohol and tobacco, so I ultimately had to make a business decision. That's just what it was.  
  
  Q. Who are you with now?  
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH: As far as equipment? I don't have an equipment deal. I'm free reign.   
  
  Q. Is that something your agent searches for, or are you just trying to freelance right now just seeing what works best for you?  
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH: Well, I was never someone that tried a lot of equipment before. Ping, I played Ping growing up my whole life and, you know, it's what worked.   
 I never really gave any other equipment a chance really. So I had a set of Tour Edge irons in the closet over the winter they had sent me to try because I used their fairway woods last year.   
 Obviously I couldn't try them and left them, so I just left them in there. Once I had the opportunity I was like, Well, I'll just give them a shot. Been hitting them well, so hopefully they all work out.  
  
  Q. Has that affected your game any this seen thus far, just some of the new clubs in the bag?  
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH: No. I would say all my struggles have been boiled down to the putter.   
  
  Q. There's a girl in the field who qualified yesterday from TU. Did you go to any Monday qualifiers in your amateur career?  
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH: Not -- in college when I played the event here I was lucky enough to have gotten the sponsor's exemption. But my first year I played in a couple Monday qualifiers, and it's tough. It's tough.  
 I mean, it's a one-day, and depending on how many girls show up you got to pretty much go low. That's when my first year I had conditional status, so that's what I was going to have to face early on in the season if I wanted to play out here. That's when I opted to stay on the Futures tour and get my card that way.  
  
  Q. You said you played Cedar Ridge in college. How has it changed from your perspective over the years?   
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH: I think it's basically the same golf course. It's a very tough track. You have to hit it very straight, and the greens are pretty undulated, so putting is going to be a key as well.   
 You never know with the Oklahoma wind. It could be dead calm and result in a 10-under like a couple years ago, or play like a U.S. Open when it was held here last. So it's very tough track. It'll be a great week.   
  
  Q. Since the tournament moved here four years ago, only two players have finished in the top 40 every year: you and Heather Bowie Young. Is it coincidence that it's two Oklahomans that always play well here? Do you have a reaction?  
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH: Well, that's an interesting stat. I did not know that. You know, I mean, when they get the rough up -- and the Bermuda rough is tough because we don't play it a whole lot throughout the season. I know some girls can struggle with that, because you can't anticipate what it's going to do out of the rough. It could sit up and it could bury. It's just a little tougher around the greens.  
 Obviously when I'm home I'm practicing on it a little more than maybe some of the other girls. Maybe one attribute to finishing where I have.  
  
  Q. Maybe a little home-state advantage in that?   
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH: We would hope, yes.   
  
  Q. Last year when Mi Hyun Kim won she donated $100,000 to tornado victims in Kansas. What was your reaction when you heard that?  
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH: That was great. Being from Korea she probably has not ever witnessed or really even knows the magnitude of what a tornado can do. For her to just do that right off the bat after walking off the green doing her acceptance speech says a lot about her character.   
 Coming from Korea the United States has been very good to her, and her giving back to people she doesn't even know was very touching.  
  
  Q. The LPGA has a big and little sister program. Can you talk about any way you may have benefit as a little sister or a way you helped somebody else when you were the big sister?  
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH: When I was a rookie I was not out here full time in '03. But they didn't -- I guess they had had it in previous years, and that particular year they didn't have it. They reinstated it when I had my full card. I was a big sis to -- I can't remember who it was.   
 But, you know, you get all their contact information beginning of the year, you send out e-mails, Let's hook up or whatever. It's really up to the rookie how much they want to be involved. You put yourself out there and say hi and introduce the first couple weeks.   
 It's a learning process for every body. It's busy weeks out here, and Brittany Lang was my little sister a couple years ago, and Ashleigh Simon is this year. Brittany and I kind of knew each other from college a little bit.   
 Everybody has to find their own way, and that's what the Big Sister Program is for. If someone has questions or needs advice along the way they have someone to go to.   
  
  Q. Was that last September you were in New York and met the prime minister from Thailand?   
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH: Uh-huh, right.   
  
  Q. What was that like? And do you think about that part of your heritage?  
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH: Always, yes. That's one of the reasons why when I got married I am still playing as Prammanasudh, because that's a huge part of who I am. My dad played a big part in my career, so I wanted to definitely keep that name once I get married.   
 To be able to meet the prime minister of my father's home and was a very big honor, and not many people get to do that. It was an interesting experience. He's not really watched a whole a lot of golf. Caught it here and there, so it was a very, very interesting.   
  
  Q. Did you know Johnny Damon?  
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH: Oh, yeah, he was there.  
  
  Q. Your father was there, too.   
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH: Yeah. I think he was more proud of the whole situation, just it being his culture and the leader of the country that he was born in.   
  
  Q. Do you follow TU at all?  
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH: I try. But, you know, I'm on the road keeping up with a lot stuff myself. They won regionals, and then Liesel just qualified yesterday. Looks like they're getting back on track and that's very exciting.  
  
  Q. Billy Harmon still working with you?  
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH: I didn't see him as much this past off-season. His family had some illnesses so we didn't get to work together as much. Yes, we are still in contact.  
  
  Q. Is he here?  
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH: No. I talked to him this morning though and everything is good.  
  
  Q. When you talk, you just about your game?   
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH: Yeah. I mean, he asks how things are going, how are you hitting it.  
  
  Q. Does he give you advice over the phone?   
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH: Yeah. But I hit it good last week and I hit it great yesterday, so I'm not really feeling too bad about things, so...  
  
  Q. Couple top 10s in your starts this year. Is there anything that kind of gives you reason to think that this might be the year you can breakthrough here?  
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH: Last week I was hitting it well and started feeling really good over the putter. Nothing went in, of course, but I just got to think it's going to be a matter of time.   
  
  Q. I wanted ask you about Lorena and what she's trying to accomplish here this week. Just your thoughts on her chance to make history here.   
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH: Well, I think she's proven herself that she's already made history. She's a phenomenal player and she's bee playing exceptional golf. She's not just winning tournaments by one or two shots or playoffs. She just flat out takes the tournament. That just sets the precedent for the rest of us. We got to up our games and play great.  
  
  Q. If she plays her best golf this season is she unbeatable?   
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH: I don't think anybody is unbeatable. You know, I mean, golf is golf. It changes from day to day. It can be anybody's game. Yes, she's dominated the last four tournaments, but she's not won every one out there, so...  
  
  Q. Do you like the four-day format versus the three?  
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH: Yes. In three days, I mean, you can afford one -- or in four days I should say, you can afford one ho-hum round. In a three-day event, to be able to win it, you got to stick one low one out there and then, you know, play good golf for another two.   
  
  Q. It seems like this tournament and this course is kind of gaining a reputation around the LPGA Tour. Seems like players like coming here, even though it's not a major. Do you sense that on the tour? Are the girls looking forward to getting here every year?   
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH: I think the overall reaction from the girls is that it's, as far as the golf course, it is probably one of the tougher on our tour. You know, with the accommodations, the hotel is great, the food and dining and the practice facility here at the course is top notch.   
 I think that's what attracts everybody out here. It's the southern hospitality and a great golf course, and hopefully good weather. Yeah, I think the girls really like coming to Tulsa.   
  
  Q. A year ago you were playing pretty well coming into this tournament. Could you sort of tell us where your game is right now and how you feel about it?  
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH: Last year I got off to a very good start, obviously. But, you know, I feel like I'm playing well. Struggled a little bit with my putter earlier on this year. I haven't got off to the start I would like, but it's a long season, and there's plenty of events left.  
  
  Q. I know you play around here a fair amount. What was your reaction to all the stuff that they've had to go through the past couple months to get the course ready? What was your initial action?  
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH: Well, I was just in the golf shop yesterday telling the guys that the golf course looks great and is in wonderful shape. When I was here a month ago it was brown and I was like, It's going to have to come a long way.   
 So they've obviously been working very hard to get the golf course ready for us, and they've done a fantastic job. The ice storm did do a number. The golf course looks different out there. Tops of trees are gone. Some holes where you didn't think you could take it over the trees you can.   
 Like 16 was very tight before, and they lost a lot of trees there on the right and left. So that plays a completely different hole. Unfortunately, nothing happened to No. 3, so that will play the same. Conveniently.   
 No, for the damage that was done to the golf course and to see where it is today, it's pretty amazing. Buddy and his crew and everybody that has put in, I'm sure numerous hours day and night to get it to be in this great of shape from where we were, is phenomenal.  
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH: No. But I was flying back from Australia, and when we landed, my sister was like, Yeah, it's bad. We didn't lose power luckily, but we didn't have as much damage as they did in Tulsa here.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH: No, never. Too bad that tree didn't come down.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH: No. That probably wasn't the high percentage play.  
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH: With another round, obviously 3-under is, I think, a very decent score on this golf course depending on what the wind conditions are right like. Four days, again, could mean a couple more rounds under par. At the same time, they could set it up to where Sunday plays very difficult. You just never know. It's just a better set up I think with the four days.   
  
  Q. You mentioned the undulations in the greens. How do they compare with some of the tougher courses on tour with the speed and how well you have to read the breaks?   
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH: Unfortunately, sometimes our golf courses are not very consistent week to week. That's something that the tour is working on. We've hired an agronomist to try to come in weeks before and try to keep it more consistent.   
 But, you, the course conditions are in great shape. The greens are rolling very well. I assume they're just going to get quicker and quicker. For the most part, we don't ever play really quick greens except for the U.S. Open. So on average, speed-wise it's pretty much the norm. They are in great shape, though.   
  
  Q. Does it matter to you whether this tournament is in the spring or fall? For you, does it make any difference?   
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH: For me, personally, no, it does not make a difference. But I think for the condition of the golf course and as much stress as is put on getting a golf course ready in this part of country at this time of year, it's a little difficult.   
 I mean, this time of year in Oklahoma you never know what you're going to get. Like it was very cool just a month ago and the golf course was still brown. So it's a little touch and go at this time of year here.   
 I think it plays a little easier this time of year than it does in late summer or fall just because the whole growing season to get the rough up and get the greens firm and fast and that type of thing.   
 I think it plays tougher in the fall, so...  
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Stacy. Good luck this week.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT