FRANKLIN AMERICAN MORTGAGE CHAMPIONSHIP
May 3, 2006
Stacy Prammanasudh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PAM WARNER:   Stacy, thank you for coming in, you're the defending champion which you've got to be really excited, this tournament was the first win of your career last year.  Can you talk about winning last year and coming back to the same course?
STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  It was a course that I feel good here.  It's kind of like coming home again.  I've always played well here in the past and I've been here before.  I'm sure I'll be a little bit nervous.  It's another golf tournament and I have to go out and play like I normally do week-to-week, so I'm excited.
Q.  Getting that first win, was it a confidence thing or what?
STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  Yeah, it definitely boosts your confidence to know that you can win out here amongst the best ladies professional golfers in the world.  It's just a matter of going out and practicing and doing what you have to do to prepare yourself to try to get that second win.
Q.  Did it make you even hungrier?
STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  Yeah, once you win once, you want to win again.  You know you can't win them all, so all you can do is try to play your best golf and see what happens.
Q.  You haven't started yet, but what's the coolest thing about having "defending champion" your name?
STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  Just the whole champion part.  There's players out here that have played for years and have been right there in the hunt and haven't had a win.  I'm just fortunate to have had one early on in my career.
Q.  Players talk about the course conditions coming here, it's wet, expect a rain delay.  You're used to it, I'm sure, but do you almost have to come in with a mind-set of you might be playing more than 18 in a day?
STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  Yeah, definitely, especially when you look at the forecast for the week and it's got showers every day.  You just mentally prepare for having longer days out there.  You know, if you happen to get on the right side of the wave and the storm, then you're one up, but you've just got to be patient.
Q.  How did you play today?
STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  We finished with an eagle, so we shot 18-under.  Parred No. 4, too.  They were a little peeved about that.
Q.  Can you talk about how this year has gone for you, you had the tie for ninth and has your game been going how you'd like it to go coming into this week?
STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  Yeah, I'm very satisfied with the way I played this year.  I actually went to a belly putter for the first event of the season, and I'm a lot more confident with it.  Still it's a learning process, using it, and I've always used a conventional putter my whole life.  That's helped me with my consistency on the greens a little bit.  Just had a few good tournaments and waiting to have a really good one.
Q.  You've played well here before in the past and won, why do you think you've seen success here, do you like the course or does it play to your strengths?
STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  I think it's just a fun course.  You know you can go out and make a lot of birdies and when it's wet conditions the way it has been in years past, you can go shoot at the greens and be aggressive.  I played here in junior golf a couple of years, so it's just, to, me, it's a familiarity thing -- that's a hard word.
Q.  With the Lorena and with Karrie coming in, they have been pretty hot, do you worry about fighting anybody off, or do you just concentrate on playing your game and let it fall where it may?
STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  Lorena and Karrie have been playing great golf this year, no doubt about that.  But, you know, with how wet it is, you can shoot right at the pins and you know you have to make birdies out here.  You can only do what you can do. You can't control what anybody else is doing.  You just prepare yourself and do what you can.
Q.  I was watching you on 18, and after every shot you would turn around and shoot like a video of the previous shot or whatever.  Does that help you analyze your game, help you analyze your shots?
STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  You mean today on 18?  Yeah, there was a sprinklerhead that was not in my yardage book near the layup area, so I was just measuring the yardage for that sprinklerhead.

I didn't play 18 yesterday.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT