THE SOLHEIM CUP
September 16, 2007
Stacy Prammanasudh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Tremendous round.  Did you think you could play that well today? 
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  I knew I had to.  Suzann is a great competitor.  I knew she would play well.  I know she had a lot of support from the fans out there.  I knew that going in.  Just had to play my own game, and, you know, luckily we'll get away with a couple good shots and come out on top. 

 Q.  Three 2s and a possible birdie chance there.  You saved your best until last. 
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  You had to.  I had to get it anywhere on the green and hopefully put some pressure on her, and that's what I had to do. 

 Q.  Good stuff.  There's a lot of red on the board.  How confident do you feel? 
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  I'm feeling very good right now. 

 Q.  Well played and congratulations. 
 You got one point.  How does it feel? 
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  It feels so good.  I mean, I got two halves earlier previously in the matches today.  I'm just happy to finally get a win.  I knew it was going to be tough throughout playing Suzann.  She's a great player, and I'm just very pleased. 

 Q.  You had seven birdies within 15 holes down for you. 
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  Me?  I'll take them.  All I knew I was one ahead of her going into 18.  That's all that counted. 

 Q.  Was it because Suzann pushed you to this performance, or did you feel comfortable all day long already? 
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  I knew it was going to be a tough day.  She's a great player.  She made an eagle on a par 5 out there, and we were constantly pushing each other, and that's what match play is all about.  It's a lot of fun. 

 Q.  Great match.  What was your strength today? 
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  You know, I knew it was going to be a tough day.  Suzann is probably one of the strongest players.  I knew I was going to have a tough match.  If I could just get it going early or get a couple birdies out there, then it would be a great match.  And I think we both shot maybe 2, 3-under.  So it was a great day out there and lucky I was able to come away with the win. 

 Q.  I was keeping score and more like 4, 5-under.  You both played great matches.  That will put you -- the U.S. team two points ahead of the European team.  That's a great Solheim experience. 
 STACY PRAMMANASUDH:  Thank you.  I couldn't have asked for anything more. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT