U.S. OPEN
September 7, 2016
Ana Konjuh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
K. PLISKOVA/A. Konjuh   
6-2, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Obviously not the result, but it's been a great tournament for you.  Sort of your reflections, looking back on, first of all, the match.  Just too much for you today?  
ANA KONJUH: I mean, I wasn't at my best level today for sure, but she was just too good.  Her serve is just too good.  Today on the court, you know, she found her rhythm and took the opportunities that I gave her.   
You know, I cannot be sad after all of this.  Good luck to her.  She's having great season so far, and, you know, I'm cheering for her.   
Yeah, but overall, I'm happy with my results here.  When I came here I could only imagine playing the quarters.  I think it's been a great tournament.   
 Q.  Talk about the takeaway.  Obviously getting to a position where you can contend at Grand Slams, this is a great first step.  Is that how you look at it?  
ANA KONJUH: Yeah, my season -- as I said, my season wasn't so great so far.  I'm just really happy to be healthy and on the court and especially competing in the Grand Slams.  That's a big thing for all of us.   
I'm just looking forward to the next one.   
 Q.  Is there any reason why it seems to be that players like yourself can sort of get through the draw to a late stage here at the US Open?  There has been a woman's unseeded semifinalist for several years here.  Any thoughts about that?  
ANA KONJUH: Ah, it's a special tournament, that's for sure.  I mean, I love it here.  I won the juniors.  I have good memories.   
The city is great.  I think we are all enjoying ourselves.  We don't want to go home, so we just play good.   
 Q.  We were just talking with fellow journalists about what a unique venue Arthur Ashe Stadium is.  Now with the roof.  As a player, is it intimidating, daunting, inspiring, to go out and play out there?  
ANA KONJUH: Well, for me it is inspiring, for sure.  I haven't played on Ashe before.  Playing against Aga, you know, that was my first time.  I wasn't that nervous as I was expecting.   
I think, you know, it was a good thing.  It was motivating to me to be better.  The atmosphere was great.  I heard the crowd cheering for me, so thanks to them for coming.   
 Q.  Your ranking is due to go up to around 51 as a result of this.  How does that make you feel?  
ANA KONJUH: Good, yeah.  I think I dropped to 100 or something before.  I was a bit down, low point in my career.  I still have a long road to go.   
I'm just giving my best to be healthy on the court.  Yeah, my goal was to come to top 50 this year, so I still have a few tournaments.  (Smiling.)   
 Q.  Is it important to be a sort of Croatian No. 1 player, as well, to be the best woman player in your country?  
ANA KONJUH: I mean, yeah.  I didn't think that I was before this.  So, you know, there is Mirjana.  You know, she's always good.  And Ajla, you know, but she's playing for Australia now.   
And Donna, you know, she's dropped I think right now, but, yeah, I think she's gonna come back.   
Just it feels good.  The Fed Cup team, you know, in February we are playing.  I'm just looking forward to it.   
 Q.  I got requests this morning before the match to please, please, please ask you some questions and you answer in Croatian.  We will do that later.  How much excitement is there at home?  Do you get a lot of tweets, social media, that indicates a high level of interest back home, especially when you get to the stage you were able to get to?  
ANA KONJUH: Yeah, yeah.  After the match against Aga, I got a hundred messages on my phone.  It ran out of battery at some time.   
It feels good other people are cheering for and you that you're recognized in your country that you did something great.   
No, I think of it as a motivation to get even better and get people to talk about me even more.   
 Q.  The motivation, the match against Aga, not to go back to the previous match, but that's a huge breakthrough there and your first time in Ashe Stadium.  Taking that, how much confidence do you have going forward now looking forward to Grand Slam tournaments, feeling like, you know, the difference of maybe being able to get through the first, second, third round as opposed to getting to the quarterfinals or semifinals?  
ANA KONJUH: Yeah, I mean, for sure.  This is a great result for me.  Now I know that, you know, I got that something to be in the top.  I'm just looking forward to playing again on the Grand Slams.  I think that's the most important tournament for all of us.  I'm just enjoying it, and like the pressure, also.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT