U.S. OPEN
September 6, 2016
Ana Konjuh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. KONJUH/A. Radwanska   
6-4, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Can you just describe reaching your first quarterfinals of a major.  
ANA KONJUH: Yeah, I'm just really happy.  I played her in Wimbledon.  It was a tough match.  This time I took opportunities.  You know, I was just going for it.  It was the key of the match, so...   
 Q.  Is it fair to say that's the best match you've played on the pro level?  
ANA KONJUH: Probably, yeah.  My coach said so.  I believe her.  I mean, I'm obviously seeing that from the other side.  I'm real excited about my performance tonight.  My serve was pretty good tonight.  I don't think she had any answers.   
So, you know, I just took the opportunity and went for it, enjoyed the moment.   
 Q.  How much were you able to enjoy it?  It's Ashe, the roof is closed, sound is weird, playing Aga.  How calm were you out there?  
ANA KONJUH: Yeah, this is my first time playing on Ashe actually.  Under the roof, it's a new thing this year.  I'm real happy I got to experience that.  It's a bit different than usual.   
I think that suit me better than her.  I didn't have any wind or sun or anything that's going to distract me, so I just played my game and gave my best.   
 Q.  On court you said it's been a tough season.  What's been so tough about it?  
ANA KONJUH: I had a few health issues.  I had my back.  Then I sprained my ankle with Aga in Wimbledon.  I was out for like two or three months.  That's kind of had an effect on me.   
I'm still young.  I still need to experience things.  I think I didn't have that many matches as I should.  It was tough to come back every time.   
But, you know, here I am in the quarterfinals of the Grand Slam, so I cannot complain.   
 Q.  Some fans at the US Open are probably getting to know about you.  Did you know until a few days ago when people went onto the website to look at your matches, your picture wasn't even there.  Did you notice that?  
ANA KONJUH: I saw on the live score, yeah, on the US Open app, yeah, it says like bio or something.  I don't know if I have a picture now.   
 Q.  Did it bother you?  Are you fine with it?  
ANA KONJUH: No, not really.  Like probably most of the other players that are young or coming didn't have pictures.  I don't think that's a really big issue.   
 Q.  What was your reaction?  Did you know what was going on when that noise came as you served in the last game?  
ANA KONJUH: Yeah, I heard players complaining about it.  So when they told me that they are closing the roof, I was like, okay, let's experience that.  I didn't play under it.   
But it didn't bother me that much.  I hear the ball.  I just didn't hear maybe the umpire that well.  But with the music and everything, I mean, I won tonight, so I cannot complain about anything.   
 Q.  The last game as you were tossing the ball for a serve...  
ANA KONJUH: Yeah, I don't know what was that.  I just got scared at the moment.  You're focused on tossing the ball.  Then something's happening.  Yeah, I don't know.   
 Q.  Does joining the last eight club mean anything to you?  Do you know much about that?  
ANA KONJUH: Last eight, like quarterfinalists?   
 Q.  There's a club you get to join now.  
ANA KONJUH: Oh, I didn't know that.  I do now.   
It's really a privilege for me to be here, just playing for the finals.  I'm 18.  I won the juniors here.  I have good memories.  I love the city.  I'm just really happy just to have this chance.   
 Q.  Lately in the women's and men's game, it's been mostly older players at the top.  Do you think you're able to break through?  
ANA KONJUH: Well, you know, my season wasn't the best so far.  But I'm enjoying every moment.  I love the game.  Just being on the Ashe tonight, feeling that atmosphere, it was really great for me.   
Serena is still on the top.  But I heard like Kerber is close or somebody.  I think that, you know, things might change in the future.  I'm really hoping that I'll be one of them.   
 Q.  You won the junior Grand Slam here.  You are one of the best junior players.  Your best friend and rival Bencic got into the top 10.  Do you think it took longer than you were expecting to come to this level?  
ANA KONJUH: I was really happy for her.  Last year I think she broke the top 10.  We are still really great friends.  We grew up together.  I remember I was playing under-14s.  You have great memories together.   
But well done to her.  She had a great seasons.  Now she's been injured a bit, I think.  She's like top 30-something now.  But I feel like she's going to come back soon and she has the game.   
 Q.  When you were 16 or 17, did you think you could get to this level?  
ANA KONJUH: At that age, you know, you are still the juniors.  I was just coming to senior tournaments.  Maybe took a little bit while for me because, you know, I had a different path, chose different tournaments.  I had some health issues before.  Now she has them.   
It's just different road for everybody.  She took the opportunities.  She played well.  I think my time is coming now.   
 Q.  How frustrating were the last three years?  In addition to the health issues this year, you also had the surgery.  
ANA KONJUH: A little bit.  But, you know, when you are 18, then you have a surgery behind you, a few months off, it's not that easy to always, you know, come back.  You need matches, you need the experience.  Other players have that, but I don't.   
I'm just trying to enjoy every moment.  Yeah, I was a bit frustrated at first.  But, you know, now I'm just trying to accept things as they go.   
 Q.  Was there special motivation today after what happened in Wimbledon?  You had your chances.  
ANA KONJUH: Yeah, last night I was replaying the match in my head.  I had two match points or three, I'm not sure.  I missed my forehands on all two or three.  I just didn't go for it.  I had the opportunity; didn't take it.  I think that's the experience I need right now.   
Obviously, you know, I know that I have a game to beat her.  She's a great player.  I was at my best tonight.  The performance was really good.   
 Q.  Pliskova, what are your memories of playing her?  You're not far off in age.  What do you expect from that match?  
ANA KONJUH: I don't remember if we played in a senior match.  But she's, you know, a great player.  She had a great season so far.  Winning Cincinnati I'm sure she's full of confidence.  She's a great server.  Maybe we have a day off tomorrow so I hope to rest well and just try to practice, you know, just be 100% on the match.   
 Q.  Does it feel at all weird to think or have you thought that you're one match away from a Grand Slam semifinal?  
ANA KONJUH: I'm trying not to think about it, as you know I did last night, you know, if I win this quarters.  You know, I'm taking day by day.  I didn't know I was playing Pliskova till I heard on the court.   
I don't like to know who I'm playing if I'm in a match.  After the match I hear that, then I prepare for that.   
I'm just trying to focus on each player for the day for the match and just give my best.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT