WIMBLEDON
June 23, 2005
Alexander Popp
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  Do you feel the crowd got on your nerves and was it a distraction to you early on in the match particularly?

ALEXANDER POPP:  Early on.  Especially in the tiebreak of the second set and beginning of the third, I was a little bit annoyed.  But after that, I sort of calmed down and just tried to focus on my game and it was okay.

Q.  You seemed to talk with the crowd, telling the crowd to shut up a bit, did you?

ALEXANDER POPP:  I did once, yeah, because I was really annoyed, yeah. 

Q.  What did you find funny?

ALEXANDER POPP:  Funny?  I mean, the thing going on between the German fans and the Australian fans, like trying to be louder than the other ones.  I think it was quite amusing. 

Q.  When you have a match that goes on for that long, I know there's a clock out there, but do you sort of lose sense of the time in terms of feeling of how long you've been out there and how long this thing has been going for?

ALEXANDER POPP:  Yeah, I do.  I knew it was pretty long, you can see on the scoreboard.  But I had no idea what time it was when I came off the court.  It could be anything.

Q.  Was always a bit mesmerizing.  You were both so dominant on serve. 

ALEXANDER POPP:  Yeah, we were both serving really well, so I think it was kind of tension in the air.  Because both of us knew if you lose your serve, it's over.  I mean, he knew probably and I knew anyway, because he started in the fifth set.  So if I lose my serve, it's done so... Of course we didn't have like a lot of great points, but I think we both played really well.

Q.  During the break of ends, are you aware of some of the things going on elsewhere?  You can see Court 1 over the road, you can hear Centre Court particularly.  Are you aware of those things going on around you?

ALEXANDER POPP:  Not at all.  I'm just on the court.  I had no idea that Tim lost.  I don't see anything else except the court so I was really focused on the match. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT