WIMBLEDON
June 30, 2003
Alexander Popp
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Good evening, everyone.  Alexander Popp for you.  
 
 
Q.  I don't know whether it's Philippoussis or Agassi, but would either one of their styles suit you better than the other? 
 
ALEXANDER POPP:  That's a difficult question because I haven't played against both, so... Probably Philippoussis maybe would be better for me because I like playing against guys who rely on their serve.  And if I can return well, I think it's a good advantage.  But if he can serve that well and beat Agassi, who's probably the best return player in the world, then I guess wouldn't help me a lot.  So doesn't make a big difference, I think. 
 
Q.  Whichever the two it is, they're going to have much more, obviously, big match experience than you.  Do you think that will be a factor, and how do you combat that? 
 
ALEXANDER POPP:  Well, it's a big advantage.  Especially Agassi, he can play every match on those big courts.  So for him, it's nothing special for him to go out there and play his tennis.  It will be just important for me to try to get into the match as soon as possible.  And once I make it like a good match in the first set, I think I'll forget about it. 
 
Q.  I know that the boys are talking about the headlines in the German press .  You realize that if Henman loses today, you're going to have a lot of headlines in the English press as well.  We're going to claim you back.  Does that bother you at all?  Do you like that? 
 
ALEXANDER POPP:  No, doesn't bother me at all.  I've told the English press a couple of times that I will play Davis Cup for Germany.  I think that the show is over. 
 
Q.  The only way it might help you is the crowd might give you a bit more support than you might get otherwise? 
 
ALEXANDER POPP:  Well, I wouldn't mind that.  That would be nice.  I mean, I'm half English, and that's all right with me.  I'm happy about it.  It's just a matter about Davis Cup and the press, but I'm still half English whether I play Davis Cup here or not. 
 
Q.  Do you hear that?  When the crowd does give you support, does that make a difference to you? 
 
ALEXANDER POPP:  It does.  I mean, I'm very happy if they support me.  I mean, it's not really important whether  -- where you come from, I think, because some of the foreign players get very good support from the crowd.  It's just probably about sympathy.  I don't know.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT