WIMBLEDON
June 28, 2003
Alexander Popp
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Okay, good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Alexander Popp.  Who would like to ask the first question? 
 
 
Q.  Tim Henman could do with some help.  Do you mind if we all start pretending you're British again?
 
ALEXANDER POPP:  Well, it's up to you, but obviously I've been playing for Germany the last 26 years and it doesn't look like it's going to change. 
 
Q.  When you look back at three years ago, all the attention you got, particularly off the court, do you feel a bit awkward? 
 
ALEXANDER POPP:  Well, I have very good memories concerning the tournament, but everything else isn't really what I'm playing for.  Obviously press and media belongs to tennis if you play well, but that's not the part that I enjoy. 
 
Q.  Does any part of you feel English for these two weeks when you come to Wimbledon? 
 
ALEXANDER POPP:  Well, I feel English a little, of course, because my mom's English and we speak English at home sometimes, and I have a lot of relatives here.  So a part of me is English, that's for sure.  But I grew up in Germany. 
 
Q.  But during this?
 
ALEXANDER POPP:  Well, I feel at home when I'm here.  I really like playing in England.  I've always played well, even in the smaller tournaments when I was younger.  So it must be something about it.  But as I already said, I grew up in Germany and it's pretty  well sure, for me, that I play for Germany.  
 
Q.  You've had a few injury problems.  Is that largely the reason why you haven't been able to come back?
 
ALEXANDER POPP:  Well, last two and a half years ago I almost, well, didn't play for like 12 to 14 months, didn't play at all.  I guess that's enough to pull every player of the world out, and it's impossible to play well in between because you haven't really got the time to practice and work on your tennis.  
 
Q.  Is everything fine?  Everything looks fine at the moment.
 
ALEXANDER POPP:  So far.  Today, everything is perfect for me.  
 
Q.  You said you played for Germany the last 26 years.  Does that mean you're ruling out playing for Britain ever in your life? 
 
ALEXANDER POPP:  Yeah (laughter).  
 
Q.  Just wanted to clear it up?
 
ALEXANDER POPP:  Short answer (smiling).  
 
Q.  What happened when you were serving for the match?  I think it was three double-faults. 
 
ALEXANDER POPP:  Yeah. 
 
Q.  Was it nerves?  What happened? 
 
ALEXANDER POPP:  Well, I was a little nervous, but not as nervous as you are when you serve three double-faults in a row.  The first two, I just didn't see the ball because it was right going into the sun and I didn't see it.  So I had to just try and serve and be happy to get it and get it in.  After the second double-fault, of course I thought, "Oh, better not serve a third one," and that's what happened.  So it's just bad luck.  Things like that happen in tennis.  But if I would have been really nervous, I think I wouldn't have won the tiebreaker.  And I kept on playing well, so it didn't affect my game, I think.  
 
Q.  Can you explain mononucleosis, the illness?  Can you explain what that is?
 
ALEXANDER POPP:  Well, it's a virus.  You really feel tired, you have no power left.  You feel like you could sleep all day.  Well, in the beginning when I didn't know what it was, I played matches, I played well, won the first set, then I just lost Love and 1 because I couldn't move anymore; I was dead.  I could just go back and sleep.  I couldn't practice more than an hour, and after that, I didn't know why, but I just couldn't do anything anymore. 
 
Q.  But it just left, eventually just went, did it?  And that was it?
 
ALEXANDER POPP:  Well, I just didn't practice for like four months.  Just have to rest and wait, because it's a virus, you can't do anything about it.  So you just have to wait and see.  Luckily, it just took four months.  I know other sport people that had a lot longer time to recover from that.  
 
Q.  So you didn't have any specific treatment for that?
 
ALEXANDER POPP:  No.  
 
Q.  Do you spend any time in England apart from these two weeks? 
 
ALEXANDER POPP:  Well, I played Nottingham last week, so... (Laughter). 
 
Q.  Apart from tournaments, do you spend time with family?
 
ALEXANDER POPP:  Yeah, sometimes we come over and see my family in London, maybe for Christmas, that kind of stuff.  It's not like I'm here for months, it's just more a matter of weeks.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT