WIMBLEDON
July 5, 2000
Alexander Popp
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 MODERATOR: Ladies and Gentlemen, Alexander Popp.  
 
Q. Pat said he felt like you were a little tight out there today. Can you talk about
what you were feeling in this match?
 
 ALEXANDER POPP: Yeah. I didn't feel as relaxed as in the other matches. I played on the
big court for the first time; I'm in quarterfinals, of course. I wanted actually to try
and go out there and just enjoy it and play well, but I didn't have a good touch from the
beginning. If you don't really get into the match, it's always tough to come back if you
haven't got any experience with those matches. If I would have managed to stay in the
match maybe until 3-All or 4-All, without playing well, everything can happen. It didn't
work out for me, so it was very difficult. I mean, he played solid today; didn't miss any
easy shots. That's probably the reason why I didn't play the way I would have liked to. 
 
Q. How was the serve today? Second serve worry you at all? 
 
 ALEXANDER POPP: Well, about as much as my first serve. It was horrible today.  
 
Q. I'm talking about his serve. 
 
 ALEXANDER POPP: Oh, his serve. He served all right. I mean, it's tough to answer that
question because I've got the feeling I wasn't as concentrated as in the matches before. I
was a little bit tired mentally. It's always tough to return somebody like that if you're
not focused 100% and you can't see the ball as well. He had a lot of spin on his serve. As
everybody could have saw on the court, I didn't return very well today.  
 
Q. How nervous were you before you went out?
 
 ALEXANDER POPP: It wasn't that bad. It was just my concentration was horrible today. I
didn't see the ball that well. I was just tired. There was so much going on off court,
which was probably more worse for me than playing the matches for five sets. A lot of
things happened at home as well, which I wasn't very happy about that, as I heard it. It
wasn't easy for me to play today. 
 
Q. In terms of the spotlight?
 
 ALEXANDER POPP: Yes, press. Everybody was going crazy. I don't really know why. I've
had a good tournament here, but after this week I'll probably be maybe 60 or 70 in the
world, which is all right for me. Everybody was like behaving as if I was No. 1 now. I
think I got too much attention. I didn't really deserve that. I had a good tournament, but
not more and not less. That's about it.  
 
Q. Are you talking about back in Germany or the fact there were a lot of English people
trying to adopt you?
 
 ALEXANDER POPP: The problem for me, of course, I have to deal with both. If you're
English and you play well, the English press goes after you. If you're German, you play
well, the Germans come. I had to deal with both, which was a lot. If you sometimes say,
"No, I can't do it anymore," the reporters get upset. I think I'm always try to
stay polite, and they have to accept if I can't do every interview. The last couple days,
if I would have done every interview, I wouldn't have had time to practise, I think. 
 
Q. What do you plan to do now, take a rest?
 
 ALEXANDER POPP: Yeah, I would like to go back now and rest a little bit, think about
what happened the last two weeks, because for me it was a great experience. I never
thought of coming that far. I'm very happy about the way I played, except today. That
happens. Tennis, you can't always play very well every day. That's it. If you play
somebody like Patrick Rafter, you have to accept that you can't win against him if you
don't play 100%.  
 
Q. I trust there's no question of you becoming an adopted Englishman. We've adopted a
few in the past. There's no question of that?
 
 ALEXANDER POPP: Not really. I haven't thought about that, as I already said the last
couple of press conferences. The time will show what's going to happen.  
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT