WIMBLEDON
July 1, 2000
Alexander Popp
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MODERATOR: Good afternoon. Alexander Popp. First question, please. 

Q. Must be delighted with the way you played today?

ALEXANDER POPP: Yes, I am. This is probably the nicest day of my life up to now.

Q. What was the secret of your success today?

ALEXANDER POPP: The secret was I think I stayed relaxed most of the time. I didn't
tighten up really. I just tried to play my match, didn't try to do something special
because I played one of the best players of the world. I think that's very important. If
you start trying to play better, you think you have to do something special, then usually
you play worse.

Q. Did you sense that you had him rattled?

ALEXANDER POPP: After the second set, I thought I had a good chance because he seemed
to be a little bit injured, whatever. I don't know. I can't tell. I knew I had a good
chance after that because it would be difficult for him to come back and win three
straight sets.

Q. Did you feel that the crowd were behind you?

ALEXANDER POPP: I hope so.

Q. I was thinking with all the talk about your English mother, maybe the crowd adopted
you a bit slightly. 

ALEXANDER POPP: Well, you know, it's a very difficult thing for me. Maybe some of the
people think I'm trying to get into British tennis or anything. I'm not really doing that.
I mean, I've had my British passport - well, I can't really remember - before I started
playing tennis. This is a whole new situation for me. Born in Germany, I live there, but
I've got two passports. Well, that's about it up to now.

Q. What would you say if you were asked to play Davis Cup for Britain?

ALEXANDER POPP: Well, I've been talking about that with my coach. He said actually we
didn't really think about playing Davis Cup at all - doesn't matter for which country -
the next 12 months. I've had a couple of good matches now. I haven't really played against
any of the great players yet. I want to prove that I'm good enough to play and beat the
great guys before I really go into playing for a country. That's, well, something special.

Q. But you won't rule out the possibility that it could happen in the future?

ALEXANDER POPP: Well, I'm not doing that now, no. 

Q. Started out when you came into the tournament as something that was thrown about
casually. Now it's become a bit more serious. 

ALEXANDER POPP: Obviously, because I've been playing well. If I would have lost first
round, probably nobody would talk about it now.

Q. In your opinion, how did Gustavo Kuerten perform in this match?

ALEXANDER POPP: In this match? 

Q. What's the main mistakes made by him? 

ALEXANDER POPP: I was concentrating so much on the way I had to play, I can't really
tell what he did wrong. I think he had some kind of problem with his leg because he took
the injury time-out in the second set. Probably was very important to win the first set. I
don't really know what to say, sorry. 

Q. Who has been your main inspiration as you've grown up?

ALEXANDER POPP: Probably the coach I've got now. I started working with him six years
ago. I really wanted to stop playing tennis when I was 17 because I didn't play well; I
had nobody to help me really. To come to the top hundred is such a long way, hard work,
too. He told me, "You've got the talent, you can try. You have to work hard for a
long time. It's not going to happen in a couple months." That's what he told me. We
started working, and now I'm here. 

Q. What's the name of your coach?

ALEXANDER POPP: Helmut Leuthy, L-u-e-t-h-y.

Q. In terms of inspiration, what guys did you grow up watching?

ALEXANDER POPP: I started playing tennis the year Boris Becker won Wimbledon for the
first time. That inspired me probably to go on the court and hit. Well, in the last couple
of years, I think Pete Sampras was great to watch because he's just, well, a great player.


Q. How many English relations have you got in England? 

ALEXANDER POPP: My uncle lives here. I've got, yeah, three cousins, a couple of
friends, of course. That's about it.

Q. Do they live where?

ALEXANDER POPP: In London.

Q. Play tennis?

ALEXANDER POPP: No. I'm actually the only one in my family playing tennis.

Q. I think your mother studied English at Leeds University?

ALEXANDER POPP: My father. They were both studying in Leeds. 

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT