TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 5, 2010
Brian Duncan
Taylor Potts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
  Q. Taylor, you had 11 or 12 passes in a row. Could you talk about that stretch in your overall game today?   
 TAYLOR POTTS: Really we kind of came out there expecting to complete every pass, really. When it's incomplete, it's my fault. So any incompletions today were my fault.   
 But the game, you know, it's a team game. You're not going to win on one side of the ball or the other. Offense stepped up at times and defense stepped up huge. You've got to win it as a team and play as a team, and that's what we did today.  
  
  Q. I know it's not a new concept, but just talk about the connection you have with Lyle? Is this one of those days where you guys can read each other's minds or what?   
 TAYLOR POTTS: That seems to work, huh? Like I said, he's a great receiver. He's great with his hands. He doesn't drop many. It just seems to work, so why change something that works so well?   
  
  Q. Is that the best game you guys have had together?   
 TAYLOR POTTS: I have no idea. Maybe, maybe better in elementary school, I don't know.  
  
  Q. What did you see from the defense and in practice for the last month versus what you saw maybe all of last year?   
 TAYLOR POTTS: As far as?   
  
  Q. Your defense.   
 TAYLOR POTTS: This year they're sound and solid and good. I mean, there's not enough ways to describe them. They're doing different things, mixing things up. They've got players out there. Great athletes, it's just a great defense. It's a new look.   
 It's exciting to watch them. So when we come off the field, it's exciting to see the defense perform.  
  
  Q. From your perspective, how did the seam change work for you guys?   
 BRIAN DUNCAN: It worked. Again, Coach Willis is a very smart guy. He knows how to scheme teams, and he puts the right guys in the right places to make plays.   
 So most definitely the scheme did work. A few mistakes here and there, but it's something that we're always going to get better on. But the scheme did work, and we give all credit to Coach Willis.  
  
  Q. I think you entered this game with one half sack in your career, left for three. There's two of them in the game. Talk about that.  
 BRIAN DUNCAN: I give credit, again, to the defensive line and to the defense. Just the scheme itself, you know, we didn't do a lot of twists and different things like that. It just caused things to open up.   
 The effort coaches instill into us, the effort and not stopping on plays. Most definitely excited coming in 1.5 sacks. But leaving out with three, man, I give glory to God. It's awesome, and I give credit to my team.  
  
  Q. Can you talk about the heat out there and particularly still how you had to battle that? Were you still able to make plays there at the end?   
 BRIAN DUNCAN: Yeah, a lot of people talk about the heat in Lubbock. It's not that bad compared to where I'm from, Baton Rouge, Louisiana, where you've got humidity plus heat.   
 But it wasn't bad, wasn't bad. It's something we adapt to. We've practiced in hotter weather than that. So coaches are doing what they have to do as far as letting us practice when we need to practice as far as heat and stuff is concerned. So we most definitely were put in the right position to win that with the weather.  
  
  Q. How much difference is the offense this year as opposed to the one you were in last year?   
 TAYLOR POTTS: This year it's paying a lot of attention to detail. That is kind of our main focus. We want to do things right every single snap. Details are huge. If you can get the little things right, it will pay off in the end. From every position from O-line to myself, the running backs to the receivers, it's the details, everything's precise and done the right way. There's no lolly-gagging around, everything's got a purpose and detailed and planned out.  
  
  Q. What does did do for you when you can see a 0 or 7 on the scoreboard on the opposite side versus maybe a 20 or 28 or something like that?   
 TAYLOR POTTS: When you see that it gives you huge confidence. You obviously have the momentum. It's exciting, too. You're not pressing or anything like that. Still you want to score on every single drive, but it's nice knowing that your defense is playing really well like they always do.  
  
  Q. How would you rate your own performance this afternoon?   
 TAYLOR POTTS: You know, there's a lot of things I can work on. There's a lot of plays that I definitely messed up that could have helped us huge. They could have kept drives going.   
 There were times that I did things and put our defense in a bind so there's a lot of things I can work on this week. As far as the team goes, we can work on a lot of things as a team. But I have things to work on and come up better next week.  
  
  Q. Can you talk about the 4th and 1 call?   
 TAYLOR POTTS: That was a great call. Coach calls it and expects me to get a first down, I need to do it. The snap was my fault. I've got to come back with Justin this past week and work on it. If he expects us to get a first down, we need to do it. We kind of fell short on that one, and that's my fault.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT