DISCOVER BCS NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP GAME: ALABAMA v  NOTRE DAME
January 5, 2013
Kapron Lewis-Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		  KAPRON LEWIS‑MOORE:   It's been great.   You know, we've been having a lot of fun out here.   At the end of the day, we do got a game to win.   So we've got to focus on beating Alabama.   It's good to be down in South Florida enjoying the weather, but it wouldn't matter if you didn't win the game. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
KAPRON LEWIS‑MOORE:   I think stepping on the field is pretty cool, seeing everything around here, seeing the big scoreboard and the Tweets and all the social things.   It's pretty awesome.   Pretty excited about it.

Q.   So much has been made about the offensive line of Alabama against you guys.   Do you have any final thoughts as we get close to this?
KAPRON LEWIS‑MOORE:   I think it's a whole team thing.   We all know that Alabama's offensive line is really good.   We've got a tough challenge ahead of us.   Those guys are let out there by Barrett and Chance Warmack.   Those guys are really good.   But we'll see on Monday. 

Q.   Time to man up, I guess? 
KAPRON LEWIS‑MOORE:   Oh, there's nothing fancy about the game plans.   Obviously we've just got to keep doing what we're doing.   We're not going to do anything different just because it's the next game on our schedule.   It's the National Championship game, so we're not going to do anything out of the ordinary for us.   We're going to keep playing our game, offensively and defensively.

Q.   (Inaudible.)
KAPRON LEWIS‑MOORE:   Yeah, we're for sure ready for that.   Lacy and Yeldon, we've got a tough challenge ahead with those guys.   Lacy is the type of guy that will hit the hole pretty hard and lower his shoulder, get a couple more yards on you, and then Yeldon that guy who will take it outside a little bit and try to beat you with speed outside. 

Q.   (Inaudible)?
KAPRON LEWIS‑MOORE:   Oh, Road Trip, for sure.   Road Trip.   Road Trip.   Best show on ESPN. 

Q.   When you hear that your defense is compared to SEC‑type defense, how do you take that?
KAPRON LEWIS‑MOORE:   Honestly, I just think that we're a Notre Dame defense.   SEC is known for their defense, SEC has played great football the past eight, nine years, but we really don't compare ourselves to anybody.   We just want to get better every day.

Q.   When you look at college football there's a lot of spread, fancy offenses, but what does it say about the state of the game that the two teams here are really tough, physical teams, able to run the ball?
KAPRON LEWIS‑MOORE:   I think it's going to be a fun challenge.   I think it's going to be fun to watch, and I think hopefully the college football fan industry can enjoy it. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
KAPRON LEWIS‑MOORE:   I don't think we had luck to get here.   To come where we are, you have to win some close games.   Pittsburgh was a close game, and BYU played us pretty tough.   I think championship teams, they're the teams that pull out those wins.   I don't think‑‑ that's it right there. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
KAPRON LEWIS‑MOORE:   I don't know if it was luck.   I'm not really sure if it's luck or not.   I don't think it's luck at all. 

Q.   How much better are you now than you were at the start of the season?
KAPRON LEWIS‑MOORE:   I think we're getting better every week.   Especially one thing, Everett is getting better every week, and having a freshman back there leading our offense, it's pretty tough.   But seeing him grow week to week is something spectacular. 
Defense, we've been getting better every week, as well. 

Q.   Scale of 1 to 10, where were you at the beginning of the season, and where are you now?
KAPRON LEWIS‑MOORE:   I think we always thought we were good, but each game we just go out there and fight hard.   It's not really a scale of where we're at.   We just want to get better every week.

Q.   When did you think that playing for a national title was actually a possibility?
KAPRON LEWIS‑MOORE:   We always think that at the beginning of the season.   That's always the No.1 goal.   We've had some key wins this year, at Oklahoma, at Michigan State, at USC.   Those were some key wins in our season run this year that let us know we could play for a National Championship. 

Q.   A lot of people who look at close final scores are judgmental about that negatively.   You could also say it's a great strength, the ability to close out tough games.   What's your view on that?
KAPRON LEWIS‑MOORE:   I think the ability to close out tough games, that's what good teams do.   Past teams that have had some National Championship runs, they've had to win close games.   Notre Dame, obviously we have won close games, and I'm pretty sure Alabama has won some close games, as well.   You're going to have some adversity through the season, and it's how you prevail in those circumstances that make you a good team. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
KAPRON LEWIS‑MOORE:   Honestly I think it started when I got my knee injury, and being out the last like six games last year, and this spring trying to work my way back up to where I am now.   I think that was my biggest growing point of my career.

Q.   How do you think that affected the rest of the team?
KAPRON LEWIS‑MOORE:   You know, I try to bring that energy, I try to bring that positivity to the team.   Sometimes I try to be a rah‑rah guy but sometimes I'm not the best at it, but I just try to have my energy try and infect somebody else.

Q.   Talk about your year, the patches on your jersey, BCS Championship.   I mean, this is a big deal. 
KAPRON LEWIS‑MOORE:   Yeah, it is a big deal, and it's an exciting time, too.   Today I'm really excited to be out here with my teammates.   I'm excited here to talk to the media.   I'm excited to enjoy the nice weather under the shade a little bit.   I'm just out here just trying to have fun and have fun with the media.

Q.   Obviously it's every goal, but did you see this when you came to Notre Dame? 
KAPRON LEWIS‑MOORE:   You know what, to be honest with you, when I first was getting recruited under Charlie Weis, the year before I got there was the worst season in Notre Dame history.   A lot of my friends were, "Why are you going to Notre Dame?   They're horrible."   Coach Weis, he challenged our class, "Let your class be the one to try to get Notre Dame back on top."   When he told me that, I thought that was awesome.   At the same time I thought it's a challenge that could be met.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT