NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIP
March 20, 2015
Zeke Moisey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MODERATOR:   Our first 125 pound finalist, Zeke Moisey of West Virginia.  
Zeke, a statement on your match?   
ZEKE MOISEY:   I went out and really wanted to be offensive.   Got in on the shot, felt really good, finished first takedown, and I figured I'd keep being offensive.   Got in another shot and kept his knee too close to his head.   Been hitting that move since high school, so I knew it was going to work.  
   
 Q.   Speaking of high school, you're just a year removed from that, so how are you able to do this right now?   
ZEKE MOISEY:   Seeing Darian Cruz go out there, an All‑American as a true freshman last year gave me the confidence to be able to do the same thing.   We were workout partners for four years in a row.   
So seeing him be able to do that, I knew I'd be able to do that.  
   
 Q.   Zeke, your coach, Sam Henson, has a real track record working with lightweights at other universities he's been at.   Did you know that when you decided to stay with West Virginia when he became the coach?   How has he helped you, because obviously you're in a position now to be a national champion perhaps tomorrow?   
ZEKE MOISEY:   Not only Sammie Henson helped me, the entire coaching staff.   Great people, I love them all.   And Sammie Henson is probably the smartest coach I know.   He knows when we need to work hard.   He knows when we need to rest.   So he's been doing the right things all year long and it's paying off here.  
   
 Q.   When we talked this morning after your quarterfinal you talked about how you had a good game plan going in the last couple matches, but you were kind of slowing them down and wrestling at your pace.   Tonight, of course, completely different.   Did you see something in Gilman that changed your approach to being so aggressive tonight as opposed to being a little more deliberate than you had been earlier in the tournament?   
ZEKE MOISEY:   No, not really.   We really didn't even scout him very much.   So I just wanted to go out there and do what I did instead of focusing on what he did.   So I just did what I thought I could do.  
   
 Q.   You're having one of the hottest tournaments of all the wrestlers here.   I see you have 30‑something wins.   I think my math might be wrong here or I'm reading this wrong.   Is it true at this point you had 13 losses through the season?   
ZEKE MOISEY:   Yeah, I did have 13 losses.  
   
 Q.   What changed your season around to put you one step away from being a national champion?   
ZEKE MOISEY:   I think I peaked at the right time, honestly.   A lot of those losses I think I should have won or I could have won, and I think some of that comes with experience.   Being a true freshman I didn't have that much experience.   I wasn't that mat smart.   
But as the year progressed, my mat smarts kept on getting better, and I just kept on getting better.   So I peaked at the right time.  
   
 Q.   How did it feel when you heard ‑‑ a lot of people said they haven't heard an arena that loud here.   Even for some of the great things we've seen.   How did you feel when you heard that noise surging up in the crowd like that?   
ZEKE MOISEY:   Even before the match it was loud.   So it just gets me pumped up.   It's an awesome feeling.  
   
 Q.   We see Tomasello's your opponent, have you wrestled him?   
ZEKE MOISEY:   Yeah, I wrestled him twice this year.   First time didn't go so well.   Second time I definitely did better than the first time.   I took him down two or three times and I think we're going to do even better against him tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   How does it feel to be so emotional?   
ZEKE MOISEY:   It really hasn't sunk in yet.  
   
 Q.   Did you consider red‑shirting at all?   
ZEKE MOISEY:   Yeah, I was red‑shirted for the first two weeks of the season.   When I wrestled at Michigan State I wrestled and I wrestled at Virginia Tech I was red‑shirted.   Like I said, Coach Henson is the smartest coach around.   To be honest, at first I didn't trust him, but now I owe him one.  
   
 Q.   (No Microphone)?  
ZEKE MOISEY:   I couldn't even tell you when.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT