WGC BARBADOS WORLD CUP
December 7, 2006
Stephen Dodd
Bradley Dredge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
 STEPHEN DODD: Yeah, I think it's always an honour to play  when you're representing your country. It  was obviously a fantastic achievement for us last year, something we really  went out and tried to do and we're going to try to do the same thing this year.  
  
 STEPHEN DODD: Whether it's 36, 54, 72, a win is a win for  whoever gets it. Fortunately we were in  front after 54 last year, and the gods were on our side.   
  
 BRADLEY DREDGE: As Stephen said, whether it's -- a win is a  win whether it's over 18, 36, 54, 72, a win is a win. We were playing well going into it and  managed to keep our form up and put in a good performance last year. Obviously looking to do the same thing again.  
  
 BRADLEY DREDGE: I think so.  Like I said, we get on very well together, have a bit of fun on the golf  course. You know, obviously you try and  do your best at all times, but in between shots, you know, a bit of banter and  hopefully Doddy can keep up with me again this year.   
 STEPHEN DODD: It's like he says, you've got to have a bit  of enjoyment out there. There's a time  and a place to have a bit of fun, and we know when that is.   
  
 STEPHEN DODD: Today.  
  
  Q.  Can you come up with a highlight of when you got home which would  illustrate what it meant in Wales that you two had won?   
 STEPHEN DODD: I think Bradley could answer that better  because I went straight to China the following week, so I wasn't  actually back. He could probably answer  that.   
 BRADLEY DREDGE: Yeah, I mean, when we got home, obviously  Stephen is in China.  So the amount of attention that the press were giving me, obviously they  wanted to know -- they wanted interviews as to how it felt world  champions. And Wales had not won it since '87, and the  amount of golf that we have in Wales, it's a big achievement. It was a massive, massive thing for us.   
  
  Q.  How did you find the course today?   
 STEPHEN DODD: I thought it was playing very long  personally, very soft conditions out there.  And the greens were really tricky, very -- the back nine were quite  slopey in places and very quick in places when you're downwind downgrain, a bit  downhill, they can be extremely quick.   
 It's just adjusting your game, which  is quite difficult to do sometimes, and when you're putting into the grain  uphill, they are really, really slow. So  it's going to be quite tricky out there at times I think for the short game.   
 BRADLEY DREDGE: Yeah, I mean, obviously the wind is going to  be a factor this week. They have had a  bit of rain, so the fairways are very soft, as are the greens. There's no release.   
 As Stephen was saying about the  greens, that's going to be one of the toughest things, and also the rough. If you miss the fairway, you know, it's  different types of grass here to what we are used to. So it's trying to get used to how the ball is  going to come out from the rough and how it's going to land on the greens.  
  
  Q.  You mentioned last year going into the tournament you were both playing  well and carried that form through. How  different is it for you both this year ahead of tomorrow's first round?   
 BRADLEY DREDGE: I think this year, we've both been a little  bit more in and out. When we've played  well, we've played very well. Perhaps  not quite as consistent as we would have liked.   
 I suppose our form coming into this  year is not quite as good as it was lasted year, but as I said, we've both been  in and out this year, so hopefully this is going to be our in week.  
  
  Q.  Are you satisfied with the field, the players you are coming up against?   
 BRADLEY DREDGE: I think we'd prefer it a little bit easier  than it is. Obviously we've got a good  field again this year. I'm sure England will be going in as favourites,  they are both playing well and they have had good -- well, last two or three  years, they both have had a good few seasons.   
 So there's probably, you know,  there's 24 teams; they are all good players.  You've just got to go out there and shoot some low numbers.  
  
   
  End  of FastScripts…  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT