WGC ALGARVE WORLD CUP
November 17, 2005
Stephen Dodd
Bradley Dredge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
RODDY WILLIAMS:  Bradley, Stephen, terrific start to the World Cup.  Out first, leaders in the clubhouse at the moment, 11-under par 61, what was the secret out there today, Stephen?

STEPHEN DODD:  I think we kept the ball in play quite well and just gave ourselves a lot of chances.
RODDY WILLIAMS:  I think Bradley was firing on all cylinders as well, a lot of birdies out there.

BRADLEY DREDGE:  We both started off hitting it pretty close really and I got a few putts in before Stephen early on.  You want it to be combined really.  And then Stephen made two or three in a row from 6, 7 on and I started coming in on the back nine a little bit.  So we started to gel quite well there which is the idea of the game.

But I think we had a good strategy in terms of, you know, you've got to get the ball in the fairway on this golf course, and then try and give yourself sort of -- both of us give ourselves chances rather than, like I thought the last was a good example.  We both go in with wedges, but you still want two guys on the green.  You don't want Stephen going first and knock it in the water and then I think I have to go right at the flag.  The plan is just to keep giving ourselves chances.
Q.  Do you mean when you hit the fairways, do you not always take the driver on every hole?

BRADLEY DREDGE:  Today we pretty much hit driver off every tee, maybe the odd -- I think the third you hit 3-wood.  But the end of the day, play our own game still.  If one of us is hitting 3-wood off the tee, that's fine.  End of the day, you play your own game.
Q.  Partners on Sunday, weren't you?  Did you start talking about it then?

STEPHEN DODD:  We played pretty similar on Sunday.  We made a lot of birdies between us on Sunday, so we just decided that's the way to play.

BRADLEY DREDGE:  We shot 61, we worked it out.
Q.  Was that in better-ball, 61?

BRADLEY DREDGE:  In Shanghai.  (Laughter).
RODDY WILLIAMS:  Is this your first time playing together, apart from Seve Trophy?  Did that help today, that experience from a few months ago?

BRADLEY DREDGE:  I think we are pretty comfortable with one another on the course.

STEPHEN DODD:  We know each other fairly well, so that helps.
Q.  Does anything irritate either of you about the other?

BRADLEY DREDGE:  Just passes me now and then, that's all.  (Laughter.)

STEPHEN DODD:  He's got more money than me.
Q.  Bradley, you've got your career going in the right direction again, a year ago it was struggling.

BRADLEY DREDGE:  Yeah, I really struggled and made a few changes in terms of coaching and, well, you always take a risk when you do that.  So I'm quite pleased.  I feel, like you said, that my career is going in the right direction again, which is nice.
Q.  What changes?

BRADLEY DREDGE:  I'm seeing Claude Harmon for my swing, and John Pates is my psychologist.
Q.  What does he teach you?

BRADLEY DREDGE:  John?  Be more aggressive.  (Laughter) I'm not going to say anything about John or anything.  That's between --
Q.  But it really helps in terms of the way you are?

BRADLEY DREDGE:  I think John does a lot more, for me anyway, he's very much into routine, like a practical sort of thing.  He's here pretty much at every tournament and it's more hands-on in terms of set routines and try to help build your confidence in terms of thinking about always thinking about the good shots you hit rather than dwelling on the bad shots.  And it keeps your confidence higher and seems to work, anyway, so keep doing it.
RODDY WILLIAMS:  What turned your career around, Stephen?  You've had a terrific 2005.  What's been the difference this year to the previous seasons on Tour?

STEPHEN DODD:  I started working with Alan Fine on the mental side of it a couple of years ago and I've done a bit off and on with him over the years, but it's been more full-on the last 2 1/2 years, I suppose, and that's made a big difference.
Q.  Back to China next week?

STEPHEN DODD:  Yeah, another long haul flight.
Q.  Coping all right so far?

STEPHEN DODD:  Yeah, well I just have to deal with it one way or another.
Q.  Do you feel knackered?

STEPHEN DODD:  I felt tired yesterday and Tuesday but I feel a little bit better today.  Just got to deal with it.  That's what we do, we travel.  The time differences, you have to cope with it.
Q.  Have you found a formula?

STEPHEN DODD:  I just sleep when I'm tired, whether it's four or five o'clock in the afternoon, if I'm awake, I'll do that.  If it means getting up at three in the night, then I'll do that.
Q.  Not too good if you're on the ninth, though, at the time.  (Laughter)?

STEPHEN DODD:  I fell asleep a few times today.
Q.  Just about Welsh golf, Bradley, has this been a pretty good year in 2002, being in the Top 20 on the Order of Merit, it's been a while since Woosie and everything, what would it mean just to finish it out with a win here?

BRADLEY DREDGE:  It means a lot to us, representing our country.  It was nice for both as the representatives of Great Britain in the Seve Trophy.  But representing Wales, it's nice to beat the English and Scots and everything.  It makes a change in pro golf to represent Wales again.  Obviously we did a lot as amateurs, but it's nice as a professional to represent Wales.  It's great.
Q.  Was that extra club nonsense at the Seve Trophy a real sort of wakening-up exercise?

BRADLEY DREDGE:  It's the first time it's ever happened to me.  Normally I'm so meticulous, and one of those things.  Certainly checking now on the first tee.  Yeah, he was frustrated, but you get on with it, hopefully won't happen again.
Q.  Have you seen Woosie since, since you did it?

BRADLEY DREDGE:  I've seen him around.  He hasn't come over around and said "you brat" or anything.  No, he hasn't said anything.  He hasn't come over and sort of thunked me or anything like that.
Q.  Must have helped that the team won.

BRADLEY DREDGE:  Yeah, unfortunately that Doddy and I lost 1-down I think, which didn't feel too good.
RODDY WILLIAMS:  Good luck tomorrow.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT