THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 21, 2016
Stephen Dodd
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How does it feel to be the youngest man in the field?  
STEPHEN DODD: I don't feel it.  Yeah, it's nice to just get out and play some good events, because I've not done a massive amount of either the last few years.   
 Q.  What have you been doing the last few years, as you say?  
STEPHEN DODD: Not much really.  Played the odd event on Tour.  To be honest it's difficult to compete against those guys that play week-in, week-out.  They are pretty sharp, and I'm turning up not playing a lot, so it's hard to compete.   
I’ve played a few Europro Tour events and actually won the Grenke Championship after a play-off at Cumberwell Park in Wiltshire last month.  It was nice to show there is life in the old dog yet!   
 Q.  You've seen it with so many players, there's sort of a hiatus between 45 and 50, waiting to turn 50.  Were you really eager to get going again and did you practise hard for this event, because you're starting at the top, aren't you, really.  
STEPHEN DODD: I tried to do as much as I can.  It was a struggle from age 45 onwards but I enjoyed doing normal family things.   
Although I played a few events running up to this and practised a lot, but practise doesn't really get you sharp.  It's having the card and the pencil in the pocket that does that.  I was delighted with the way I played today.   
 Q.  How did you feel in the first tee, back in that competitive element?  Is it nice?  
STEPHEN DODD: It was nice.  I didn't really know what to expect today.  But putted really well today.  That got me through the day.   
 Q.  Is it nice, as well, being among your peers, looking at it in a different light?  So many of the guys here you would have played with about ten, 15 years ago?  
STEPHEN DODD: Yeah, it's nice to see a few old faces and catch up.  But it was also nice to play a golf course that's a challenge, and I felt like I did okay out there today.   
 Q.  Have you got a bit of support?  Did you know the lads here?  
STEPHEN DODD: Yeah, they are from down where I live.  They came up.   
 Q.  Where are you at the moment?  
STEPHEN DODD: Cardiff area.  Great to have a bunch of guys from Cardiff here this week to support me   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT