OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 5, 2010
Stephen Dodd
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   STEPHEN DODD: Just been doing the right things, really. Hit it pretty straight and short game has been decent. That's what we are looking for as professionals.

 Q. I had a long conversation with you in Abu Dhabi, how things were moving in the right direction there. But all went awry for health reasons. 
 STEPHEN DODD: Yeah, I struggled a bit. It's one of those things. It's not happened to me before, but it happens to us, and those are things that you have to deal with. 

 Q. But did it knock you off track that little bit? 
 STEPHEN DODD: Possibly. We'll never know, will we. It's one of those things that happens, may have played well on the weekend, just don't know.

 Q. But a little time to build it back up through Qatar and onwards?
 STEPHEN DODD: I played okay in Qatar for the majority of the week in tough conditions and I practiced well here before the event started. So quite pleased with the way things are going.

 Q. I take it you're feeling competitive. 
 STEPHEN DODD: It's getting better. The results suggests that and the scores suggest it; so I think things are moving in the right direction. 

 Q. Are you surprised at the level of scoring here? Usually we would expect a few more birdies, but I guess that rough is up and the wind has been tricky?
 STEPHEN DODD: It was just a tough day all around, and as you say, the rough was up and the wind was up, also. If you're not quite on your game, it's going to be a tough day.

 Q. Any easier today? 
 STEPHEN DODD: Yeah, I think the wind was a little less today. So obviously made scoring a bit easier. Greens are probably a bit more receptive than yesterday afternoon, so I think there's a few more opportunities out there.

 Q. Is it a place you like? 
 STEPHEN DODD: Yeah, I've played well here in the past, I think the Middle East events that we play at here are second to none, really, with the conditions and the facilities.

 Q. This is one we are so familiar with; I take it you build your year around starting in this part of the world and hoping things keep on. 
 STEPHEN DODD: Yeah, that's kind of what we are looking for.

 Q. Do you get to enjoy it away from the course, as well as on?
 STEPHEN DODD: I haven't really done a lot to be honest away from the course. I think the days are long enough and plenty of rest is required when you're out here all day.

 Q. And you've been out here so many times that you don't fancy the desert trips on camels? 
 STEPHEN DODD: No, been there, done that. Had enough. Just here for the golf.

 Q. How much would it mean to Wales as a country just to have someone in that 12-man team?
 STEPHEN DODD: Well, I think it's very important, but we have all got to improve a bit. And if we don't, then we are not going to be there, simple as that. I think it's --

 Q. Is it something that you and Jamie and Bradley have talked about? 
 STEPHEN DODD: I haven't spoken to anybody about it. I've got my own agenda and goals that I want and they have obviously got theirs and they are probably different to what mine are.
 But I'm just taking it week-by-week. The immediate future is my concern at the moment, and whatever happens in eight or nine months' time --

 Q. Obviously a sideshow to you, isn't it, because you have to focus on the golf, and you can sense the momentum in 2010, can't you?
 STEPHEN DODD: Oh, yes. It's coming around really quickly. It's one of those things that all of the sudden is upon you and the weeks and the months go by; and it's February already and I can't believe it. But it's not in the forefront of my mind at the moment. 

 Q. Winning this title is clearly what matters. 
 STEPHEN DODD: It's just performing well on the weekend. That's my immediate goal and that's what I'm more concerned about and I'll see what happens if that happens. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT