OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 4, 2010
Stephen Dodd
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Your assessment, good start in tough conditions?  
 STEPHEN DODD: Yeah, it was a tough day out there. Obviously delighted with the score.  
  
  Q. What was pleasing for you?  
 STEPHEN DODD: I think my short game is pretty good today. You're going to need that in this kind of weather, so that was a pleasing thing today I think.   
  
  Q. Did you get the best or worst of the conditions from what you can see?   
 STEPHEN DODD: To be honest, it looked pretty much the same all day. I'm not sure if it was a lot different this morning. Maybe lighter winds, but it's minimal. I can't see it being a lot different from the morning to the afternoon.  
  
  Q. Any highlights, any miraculous?   
 STEPHEN DODD: Not really. I just did what I needed to do. I hit a lot of straight shots, and when I didn't, kind of got a few breaks and was able to hit some shots from the rough, which it can be penalising in the wrong areas.   
 But I hit three shots stone-dead, which helped.   
  
  Q. How close are you to getting back to prolific winning ways?  
 STEPHEN DODD: I think it's a step in the right direction. The last few weeks I played nicely in patches. There were bits last year where it was kind of almost where I wanted it, but not quite. But it feels like it's on the right track.  
 But from two or three years ago, the standard has moved forward, and that's kind of difficult at my age, but I'm doing my best. I'm doing the best I can. I'm quite pleased with where I am at the moment. If you're not progressing, you're going backwards, aren't you.   
  
  Q. Have you thought about The Ryder Cup?   
 STEPHEN DODD: No, it's not --  
  
  Q. How can you not have thought about the Ryder Cup? Come on.   
 STEPHEN DODD: I'm so far from getting on the team, there's probably eight or nine guys that are already in it. So you're playing for in effect three or four spots.   
  
  Q. And if you're standing here on Sunday with that trophy --  
 STEPHEN DODD: It's going to take a lot more than winning this week, that's for sure. I'm just taking week-by-week, and Ryder Cup is just not on my mind at all.   
  
  Q. Must have dreamt about it?  
 STEPHEN DODD: I did and I have done, but not for a few years. I had a chance a few years ago, but at the moment, my goal for the coming weeks and months is just to keep improving and doing what I'm doing, and what happens, happens.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT