ABU DHABI GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 21, 2010
Stephen Dodd
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. I take it there were a couple of nice patches, as well? 
 STEPHEN DODD: I had a good run through 5 to about 10 and made five birdies in six holes, and that kind of got me going. And then made a few sloppy bogeys but had a strong finish.

 Q. You sound surprised -- for the first event of the season?
 STEPHEN DODD: I think when you get a break, it's difficult to know how things are going to go, especially with new equipment, but the ball was fantastic today.
 All in all, you're never sure what's going to happen, so I thought I would be pleased with how it's gone today.

 Q. Bearing in mind the new equipment, the new clubs and all, what have you done over the winter break, have you been practising endlessly to get them to work or too much snow? 
 STEPHEN DODD: I did a fair amount but I've been limited to what I can do. So I came out here not really sure what was going to happen but my coach is with me, so I've done a lot of work with Paul Hurrion on the putting and Terry Hanson on my swing. So all in all, it's getting somewhere that I'm happy with.

 Q. And your coach is with you?
 STEPHEN DODD: Yeah, he's here. 

 Q. And that's beneficial?
 STEPHEN DODD: I think so. After a break you're never sure if it's going to go after you want it to. So it's nice to have somebody around watching and he learns a lot from watching me on the course. It's one thing watching me back in Cardiff, but it's another thing watching me on the course.

 Q. You finished the season pretty strong, didn't you? 
 STEPHEN DODD: I was a bit disappointed with the way I played towards the end of last year, but I suppose you're going to get your up-and-downs, your highs and lows in the year. So that's just how it is I suppose.

 Q. And a long trek to the World Cup, as well, to finish?
 STEPHEN DODD: It was but I had a good time with Jamie, we finished quite well and quite pleased with that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT