OMEGA MISSION HILLS WORLD CUP
November 22, 2007
Stephen Dodd
Bradley Dredge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   GORDON SIMPSON:  We are joined this afternoon by team Wales, who know what it's like to win a World Cup, Bradley Dredge and Stephen Dodd.  What is it about this competition that seems to inspire the two of you?  Stephen, you can lead off today. 
 STEPHEN DODD:  I really don't know.  It's just a nice format.  We're relaxed together and we enjoy each other's company and we tend to dovetail really well, which is something that's really important in this format. 
 BRADLEY DREDGE:  Like Stephen said, we get on well together and today we sort of managed to combine our score really well.  Stephen had a great finish today, and when he wasn't playing too well on the front nine, I managed to step in and steady the ship.  We managed to combine great. 
 GORDON SIMPSON:  Stephen, you were laying low yesterday and missed the Pro-Am.  What happened, and how do you feel right now? 
 STEPHEN DODD:  Yeah, I just had some -- I had a migraine for a few days and didn't feel very good Tuesday, and then I was ill in the night Tuesday and just felt terrible all day yesterday. 
 So felt a lot better this morning when I woke up, not 100%, but I feel a lot better now than I did when I woke up this morning.  So hopefully I'll be okay now for the rest of the week. 
 GORDON SIMPSON:  Something you suffer from regularly? 
 STEPHEN DODD:  Yeah, I've missed a few tournaments this year through it.  It's just something that you have to get on with really. 

 Q.  Did you have any Eastern remedies brought to you yesterday? 
 STEPHEN DODD:  I had some tablets that the doctor gave me, so it just -- I don't know what they were, actually.  They just made me feel a bit better.  Whatever it was, it did the job I suppose. 

 Q.  But no acupuncture or anything interesting? 
 STEPHEN DODD:  No. 

 Q.  Was it Chinese medicine? 
 STEPHEN DODD:  I don't think so.  Just painkillers. 

 Q.  When you say you've had them for some of the season, you're talking about migraines presumably, how many events have you been affected that? 
 STEPHEN DODD:  Wales, I had to withdraw from that before I started.  And I had it in Singapore, as well, although it was on the weekend and I just managed to play and I didn't play the week after Wales. 

 Q.  Do you have any worries that it will occur during the rest of this tournament? 
 STEPHEN DODD:  If it does, it does.  There's not much I can do about it to be honest.  It's just something I've got to get on with and it's part of my life, I suppose. 

 Q.  Have you had tests for it? 
 STEPHEN DODD:  Yeah, I've been to see consultants.  It's just something that I've got to live with. 
 The ones I had earlier on in the year were different types, so they were more severe from what I had yesterday. 

 Q.  Have they diagnosed anything? 
 STEPHEN DODD:  There was something wrong with my wisdom tooth which was the main -- there's a nerve in there which goes all around your face, so I had my wisdom tooth out because of that, which caused one of the types of attack that I was getting but it won't stop migraines.  It's just a matter of living with it. 

 Q.  Have they just started this year? 
 STEPHEN DODD:  No, no, I've had them for a long time. 

 Q.  Can you put your finger on when they started, how many years ago? 
 STEPHEN DODD:  I've had them as long as I can remember, for as long as I can remember. 
 But it's probably him that's making it worse.  (Laughing). 

 Q.  Following your win with Stephen in this event and you have an excellent Seve Trophy, is there something about team golf that particularly suits you? 
 BRADLEY DREDGE:  Yeah, I suppose the team golf, it's always nice to have a partner with you.  Obviously in a normal Tour event you're always by yourself, just yourself and your caddie.  I think the atmosphere we play is more relaxed obviously until it comes down to the crunch on the last day and I suppose foursomes are a little bit different.  But I do enjoy the team golf.  I've played a lot as an amateur and it's nice to play it again. 

 Q.  What are your impressions of the course?  The scores so for would suggest there are plenty of opportunities out there to go low. 
 BRADLEY DREDGE:  Yeah, you've got to take advantage of the par 5s.  The greens are in very good condition, as are the fairways.  The flag positions are relatively difficult, but in a better ball format you certainly expect that.  But you've really got to take advantage of the fives and there are some short par 4s.  There's a couple of difficult holes, like 18.  Fortunately Stephen made a three there, but it's a good mix of holes around it. 

 Q.  The English agreed not to say sorry to each other.  How do you deal with the other's mistakes? 
 BRADLEY DREDGE:  For me there's no such thing as sorry because we know that we're both trying our best to hit good shots, so there's no such thing.  You just get on with it and that's all you can do.  So there's no need to apologize for anything that you do. 

 Q.  Bradley, I think it was you who got the eagle, can you just tell us about that? 
 BRADLEY DREDGE:  Yeah, it was on the ninth.  Driver and a 3-wood, I had about 30 yards to the hole.  So relatively straightforward pitch up the green and luckily hit a good shot and it went in.  It's always nice to make eagles on any holes. 

 Q.  Pitching wedge? 
 BRADLEY DREDGE:  Just a lob-wedge, pitched up, landed 15, 18 feet short of the flag and just managed to roll out and go in. 

 Q.  And your three birdies on last four holes? 
 STEPHEN DODD:  Yeah, I think he had had enough and let me take over, I haven't done anything all day.  He had to sit down for a few holes.  Yeah, I played nicely towards the end so it was a good way to finish it.  It's a satisfying day then because we had a bit of a ropey three or four holes at the start of the back nine, so it was a good way to cap the day. 

 Q.  Were you on in two on the 15th? 
 STEPHEN DODD:  Yeah. 

 Q.  How long a putt on the 17th? 
 STEPHEN DODD:  Four feet. 

 Q.  And the last was quite short as far as I could see? 
 STEPHEN DODD:  Yeah, six feet or so. 

 Q.  How many professional golfers from Wales?  Do you have your own tour in your country? 
 BRADLEY DREDGE:  I don't know the numbers but there's no tour in Wales.  The population isn't really big enough, not really enough golfers.  We do have in conjunction with England, we have regional golf and there's also the Euro pro Tour which is another thing that's taken off in the U.K. 

 Q.  How many touring pros? 
 STEPHEN DODD:  Eight or ten, something like that, Challenge Tour and European Tour. 

 Q.  Are you going to change your strategy for tomorrow when you switch to foursomes tomorrow? 
 STEPHEN DODD:  We haven't discussed any strategy yet.  We'll talk about it later and really don't know what we're going to do yet.  Do you know? 
 BRADLEY DREDGE:  (Raising eyebrows). 

 Q.  Who is playing the odd holes or even holes? 
 STEPHEN DODD:  We haven't talked about it yet so we don't know. 
 BRADLEY DREDGE:  One day at a time. 
 GORDON SIMPSON:  Just hit alternate shots and you'll be fine.  Well played again today.  Thank you very much. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT