MOUNTAIN WEST WOMEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
March 2, 2020
Jaime White
Haley Cavinder
Hanna Cavinder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Fresno State - 75, Nevada - 71
THE MODERATOR: We're joined by Fresno State.
COACH WHITE: I thought, I honestly thought the first half was pretty good to get out of there with the lead. They made a little push at the first half, but our kids played tough. We kept answering. And didn't feel like we rebounded as well but we tied them in rebounds. I thought we grinded it out.
Obviously Haley had a great game. She was able to score, especially in the first half; we really needed that.
We scored a lot in the paint. I was happy with that. Just one of those games, kind of that first game in the tournament, always get the jitters out. And Nevada had a great win last night. So they were ready to go. I thought we kind of -- we kind of braved the storm and finished strong.
THE MODERATOR: Questions?
Q. Hanna and Haley, you guys had obviously fantastic games. What were you seeing on the court that really allowed you guys to not just get to the basket but score baskets the entire game?
HANNA CAVINDER: I think we just took what the defense gave us. And I think our teammates did a really good job of just setting the screens and getting us open and working the ball and reversing it.
HALEY CAVINDER: Yeah, I think going off what Hanna said, just giving -- they were taking away my left-hand drives, so I was trying to penetrate to the right. And just taking advantage of what -- they were going to give up something for us, so we just hit the shots that they were giving up to us.
Q. You mentioned Nevada was coming off a big win against New Mexico, and you guys are in the same position where less than 24 hours from now you'll be back on the court playing another game. How do you prepare both as a coach and players mentally and physically to get back on the court in less than 24 hours?
COACH WHITE: It's less time than we're used to, but we'll do the exact same thing. Just probably shorten it up a little bit.
We're going to play a good team, whether it's UNLV or San Jose. And we've had great games with both those teams. I do think there is somewhat of an advantage that we have beaten both teams. So we have that confidence going in.
But we've had really good close games with both of them. So I feel like just getting this first game under our belt kind of calmed everybody down. And now we know what it feels like and get out there and just play.
We know that the best team's gotta win, and -- or the best team is going to win that day and we've got to be that best team.
Q. What did you see defensively tonight? And is there anything you'd like to see cleaned up for tomorrow?
COACH WHITE: Well, we had to do a lot of different things defensively. I thought Nevada did a great job just mixing things up.
I would like to see us rebound better and finish -- we finished in the paint pretty good. And other than Haley I'd like to see us hit a couple more 3s than that. But, again, I think this team all year has found a way to win and under whatever circumstances and whatever height is out there and whatever speed is out there. And I think we take pride in that.
So I think going into tomorrow, I think, one, we've got to make sure we get rest and we have energy and effort and everything else will take care of itself.
Q. Brooke played sizable minutes this game. She didn't necessarily show up in the box score. But what did she add to the game, bring to the table today?
COACH WHITE: Nevada has great post players. And we felt like -- I think Imani had a great game last night. I don't know what she got tonight. She still did a good job, but we had to have a bigger presence in there to rebound and to contest. And I thought Brooke did a good job with that. Also she's quicker at times to move six to eight feet and we need that in the zone.
Q. It seemed pretty physical out there on the court today and you two seemed to hold your composure along with being unintimidated out there. Walk me through your mindset in a game like that.
HANNA CAVINDER: I just try to be as physical with them or try to finish around the rim differently, so that I know I won't get blocked. But if they're going to be really physical, you know they're either going to give a pull-up or give something to you. And I think we just have to do a better job finishing even if there's a lot of physicality going on.
HALEY CAVINDER: Going off what Hanna said, just boxing out, getting the rebound no matter if they're bigger or taller. I think that we don't really get scared. We just want to come out and just get the win. No matter what it is, no matter what it takes, that's what our whole team goes on. And I think that's what we did today.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT