NATIONAL COLLEGE ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION MEDIA CONFERENCE
March 11, 2003
Cheryl Marra
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







CHERYL MARRA:  Thank you, Scottie, and thank all of you who have joined the call today.  It's obviously a very exciting time.  We certainly appreciate your interest and what you bring to the championship as far as the media and the different outlets that we have.  This is a very exciting year.  I'm sure all of you are very aware we have a few changes that have happened in the women's championship, starting with having all 63 games on TV.  This is the first time that will have happened, and we are very fortunate to be working once again with ESPN, our partners, to provide this coverage that they've had for so many years.  But it will, in fact, provide a different look for the championship with all the people who are great supporters to be able to follow their teams right from the beginning now  - with the players, the teams, and the coaches.  Another major change for us is going to predetermined sites, which, in fact, has raised many questions, I know, throughout the year leading up to this.  But having those sites already predetermined at 16 different locations certainly have allowed us to get in preparation for the events, for the media, for television, and for sales of tickets as well.  That is another change within our championship.  And the third one is the Sunday-Tuesday format for the Final Four, which will be something new as well for this year.  So we have a few changes in the works for our championship.  But the one thing I do feel very, very good about with our 10-member committee is that the selection and the seeding will go on with the integrity that it always has.  While these changes are somewhat large in scope, they will not detract at all from what our intention is, and that is to put the best bracket forward that we possibly can.  So with that, I will just open it up to questions and hopefully can provide the answers. 

Q.  You have three teams that are, as I see it, in contention for Division I seeds, being LSU, Duke and Texas that will not be hosting first- and second-round sites.  If any of those teams are No. 1 seeds, will there be any effort on the part of the committee to protect those teams by sending them to a site that maybe doesn't have a host team playing in that regional, even if it means sending them somewhat farther away or out of their, you know, traditional geographic region to do so? 

CHERYL MARRA:  I think when we get to that point, and those are the two considerations that we would look at , certainly keeping them in an area where their fans might be able to follow them and have less distance for them to travel, but at the same time trying to provide them with a neutral floor as the No. 1 seed so they aren't going up against a home crowd .  Those would be two things that would be under consideration.  Again, it would depend on how far we might ask them to travel to put them in that neutral bracket. 

Q.  Good morning.  Along that line, what kind of role overall do you think that geography is going to play in placing some of these teams? 

CHERYL MARRA:  Well, geography is one of those things, one of the criteria we look at, when, in fact, we are placing teams into brackets and where exactly we will send them.  As you know, we try not to ask any team to go more than one time zone difference as we are moving them, particularly with the higher-seeded teams.  So that will be a criteria that we use when we are making that determination. 

Q.  I'm curious as regards to the Sunday-Tuesday format.  I just want to understand, is this a one-year kind of like experiment with this, or are they looking to make this a permanent thing now for the women's championship? 

CHERYL MARRA:  At this point in time we do anticipate it being more than one year.  However, we will have the opportunity to sit down and reflect back on all the changes that we're making with this particular championship.  But it is not just experimental; it is an understanding that we are going forward with the new Sunday-Tuesday format. 

Q.  Do you think the predetermined sites are fair to these teams like Duke and LSU and even North Carolina, a team up my way here?

CHERYL MARRA:  Well, I guess I might ask, define "fair." 

Q.  I guess Connecticut and other teams get to stay on their home floor; obviously, Tennessee has a chance to stay on their home floor until the Final Four, whereas in the past these teams feel like they've earned the right to this home-court advantage.  Now you're giving some a home-court advantage, and you're not giving home-court advantage to other teams like Duke who went 31 -1.

CHERYL MARRA:  Certainly.  Obviously, when we go into this, we haven't predetermined who we'll be giving a home seed advantage to because the selections of the sites are not hand-in-hand with exactly who the No. 1 seeds are going to be.  So as you look forward to this, what we are trying to do by determining the predetermined sites comes with different advantages at this point in time than we've had in the past.  When you look at the No. 1 seeds who might not be hosting, it certainly will be our intention to put them in a position that allows them to have other advantages.  For example, you might try geographically to put them in an area that's close, while they might not be on their floor.  You might also try very hard to put them on a neutral site that might, in fact, take away some of the disadvantages that might also be there.  But remember, some of the reasons that we went towards predetermined sites in our hope to advance to neutral sites are for the broader picture of what we're trying to do for women's basketball, and it's not team-specific as we're moving forward.  "Fair" is a relative term.  I think if you are a No. 1 seed, one would think that you ought to have that opportunity to continue to advance by playing those teams that are not as highly seeded as you are.  But I think as we went forward, we tried to do a balance of those schools that might have the potential to be in the tournament versus those that might potentially also be neutral sites to be as fair as we possibly could. 

Q.  Is this something you guys will tweak as you go along? 

CHERYL MARRA:  Exactly.  Like I say, one thing we will have the benefit of doing this year that we haven't is after we go through this for one particular year, to step back and see what were the strengths, what were the weaknesses, and if there might be something different we might do as we're going forward to select these predetermined sites. 

Q.  Some of the coaches in the larger conferences are fearing that the committee is trying to maybe manufacture  - if that's not too strong of a word  - parity by perhaps lumping conferences together in the regionals like they did last year with Vanderbilt, Tennessee then the three Big 12 teams last year, in addition to moving some predetermined sites to places like Cincinnati, New Mexico, whatever.  Could you respond to that concern, that there's a feeling that there might be some major conference lumping again this year like there was last year? 

CHERYL MARRA:  I think each year you have to set aside on its own merits any lumping that happens traditionally happens because of the number of teams of a particular conference that might choose to get in.  Clearly, there is never an intent when we go into selection to talk about lumping or putting certain teams together in certain regions.  If you took a look at the process and what goes into that process, it is merely putting those teams in the tournaments and then going through the seeding process.  Many times it's where those tend to fall out, and after you put the safety nets in, that determine what exactly a bracket is going to look like.  I can certainly tell you from the committee's standpoint that we do not anticipate the process in selection or seeding changing at all, even though we have the predetermined sites at this point in time.  And so I'm not sure exactly where that fear is coming from.  Again, you can't take last year's and put it on top of this year's because it's a whole new bracket.

Q.  If I could quickly follow up about the integrity of the bracket, have you or anybody else on the committee maybe gone through a dry run of that to see exactly how that's looking so far? 

CHERYL MARRA:  Well, actually, it's almost impossible to go through a dry run without having some preconceived ideas of what you might do.  I think that is one of the things that is a benefit of the committee, that they stay awfully broad-minded, open-minded to the entire scope and look of what we are looking at until we actually do have everything in place.  There are an awful lot of important conference tournaments that were played just this past weekend that started to shift at least my focus of potential seeds, and I know there are some very important conference matchups coming this weekend, that it would be a little premature to actually predispose what might happen. 

Q.  Thanks for coming on here with us.  I was just wondering what the integrity of the seeding  -- suppose you have, say, Texas as a 2 seed and they have to travel first and second round.  Now, they would have to be bracketed with a 7 and a 10 and a 15, is that correct, if you're a 2? 

CHERYL MARRA:  Now you're... Scottie, do you have that information in front of you? 


Q.  Okay.  My question is, what if the teams that are in the sites that are available, there's no team that fits into one of those particular seedings, how do you address that?  Do you see what I'm saying?

CHERYL MARRA:  I absolutely do.  If you take a look at what our criteria are and what our process is for seeding teams, we have always had the ability to move them typically one seed.  So if you're a 12, you had the potential to move up to an 11 if, in fact, we are trying to protect the safety nets in the past or geographically we are trying to make this work for all the teams involved.  So we still will have that flexibility to move somebody one seed.  We have also, in the past, moved somebody across, if you're a 7 seed, to if you're in an area where you might have that potential conflict where you won't have anybody in that grouping that is hosting and there's not a neutral site available, to move them across.  So a No. 7 has actually three different or four different areas that you could place them as a No. 7.  And if, in fact, you still had a problem with finding them a home, you could potentially move that 7 to a 6 or move that 7 to an 8.  And I have to say, I know all of you are basketball fans, that you realize how much parity is out there this year.  I think each year that's the word we use when we're talking about the women's basketball across the country; that parity has certainly arrived.  This year more than ever I certainly would say that there's an awful lot of parity.  So where, in fact, you're going to be placed in the bracket in terms of seeding will be a challenge for our committee this particular time. 

Q.  I'm hoping that you can help me get a better understanding of some of these changes that had been made.  I guess my question is more philosophical in a sense of you talked about the broader picture of women's basketball and where you're trying to take women's basketball.  A lot of people are saying you're trying to make it more like the men's game.  Can you address that.  And what are sort of the visions that maybe these decisions are being made in to  -- where are you taking this sport? 

CHERYL MARRA:  Sure.  I don't know that we're necessarily trying to look more like the men's game.  The comparison, I suppose, people are drawing is the fact that the men are playing on neutral sites.  And that, too, is a goal that I think everybody involved with women's basketball would ultimately like to get towards.  Neutral sites provides more balance, provides more fairness to address one of the questions that was asked earlier.  And so I think it is our goal to move in that direction.  At this point in time, the steps that we chose to take this year with predetermined sites, is a step towards that, where we're going off of guaranteed sites for those that are the Top 16 hosts because, in fact, that did not allow everybody the opportunity to potentially host if they chose to do so.  So we have taken one step towards some neutrality, in some cases, in our hope to go to a neutral format.  That, in fact, is what the men have at this point in time, and there are an awful lot of benefits to doing that. 

Q.  What about in a situation where maybe like at a site like Oregon, if you have four teams there, and it's a difficult thing for their fans to travel to that site and you have almost no one in the stands when those four teams are playing, is that what you really are looking for?  Is this maybe a jump too soon to be taking? 

CHERYL MARRA:  Which jump, the neutral sites? 

Q.  Right.  I'm sorry, the predetermined sites then eventually to the neutral sites.  Is this really what you're looking  -- is this a little ambitious, maybe is what I'm saying?

CHERYL MARRA:  Well, I don't think so.  I think this year, if I'm not mistaken, we have, in fact, sold as many, if not a few more tickets, than we did last year in the first and second round.  So the steps we've taken have already allowed us to broaden the fan base that is out there by having advanced time to market, promote, and sell tickets.  So I think that step has certainly folded in, and those tickets have been sold before the sites even know who might be going there which, in fact, could increase that base again.  So I think, in fact, we needed to take that move.  And in addition, it is important for television to have that lead time to be able to put the 63 games on TV and to do the best job they possibly can to have some lead time to set that up as well.  So there are a variety of factors that are folded into how we might be advancing the women's game, which, in fact, is one of our objectives as we're moving forward with some of these decisions. 

Q.  I had a question.  I cover Texas Christian, and I covered the Conference USA tournament, and you mentioned as far as the parity in women's basketball, and especially Conference USA, it seems like it's really on the rise.  Some coaches were saying they could see five teams going into the NCAA tournament.  I was just curious about the NCAAs and how they are looking at Conference USA and what they've done over the last couple of seasons?

CHERYL MARRA:  Well, there's no doubt that some of these conferences have certainly come on this particular year, which has added to the parity that we will be facing.  There are several conferences that maybe at one point in time were one-team conferences in the past and have certainly put themselves into position to go deeper.  Or, after that automatic is taken, that they now become in the mix with all the other at-large teams that they might not have had in the past.  Certainly, Conference USA and several conferences around the country have become stronger year after year, and they have certainly put themselves in position for us to have to take a look at several teams in that particular conference. 

Q.  As good as that is, does it make it harder also? 

CHERYL MARRA:  Clearly, it does (laughing).  Parity does several things.  It allows you to have more competitive games, certainly, and better games.  But it also makes it a little bit more of a challenge as you are broadening the teams that traditionally might have been in there and making room for all those who have made advancements with the women's program.  And, in fact, that's a good thing. 

Q.  A technical question.  I notice that in the official bracket for the first time since the early years that it actually shows, you know, in terms of Final Four Sunday, the regions already matched up ahead of time as opposed to deciding who might see who if they got to the Final Four in the past.  What was the thought process to restore that?

CHERYL MARRA:  Actually, those have not been predetermined.  Those were put on there so that people would know where those regions are going to be.  And, in fact, the committee still has the discretion, the ability to make that determination at our meetings this weekend.  What you've seen on the poster is to let you know the four sites, but they have not yet been paired. 

Q.  Another question although it's kind of an answer, what do you see as the most difficult challenges this year?  Every year it kind of shifts a little bit.

CHERYL MARRA:  Well, one thing that is a little bit different for the committee is we used to spend an awful lot of time  - and while we will continue to do that  - in taking a look at that 1 through 6 team, because there was so much emphasis on being able to play at home.  I think there will be a little bit of a shift of the critical nature of keeping, protecting those seeds for home-site advantage now.  And with the parity that is out there this year, I believe the seeding of this championship is really going to take on a great deal of weight relative to distinguishing between so many teams  - more than we've ever had. 

Q.  I was wondering if the home sites, they're being at home, will that be a factor in their seeding?  For instance, New Mexico might be a more formidable team at home than they would if they had to travel.  Would that affect their seeding? 

CHERYL MARRA:  Clearly, when we go through the process of selecting teams into the tournament and then seeding them, it is merely based on what, in fact, they have done during the season.  So we take a look at their win-loss record, their strength of schedule, the RPI that factors in so many different facets of what they have had happen.  So winning at home and winning on the road factors in there, but it certainly won't give them any more nod than it would any other team.  So we do not anticipate that affecting our seeding this year.  As much as they might like it to, it will not. 

Q.  This sort of relates to what Cathy was asking about before, about the vision for women's basketball.  I wondered what went into the decision of having a Sunday-Tuesday format for the Final Four.  And what do you think it will do for women's basketball? 

CHERYL MARRA:  Well, clearly, while part of that decision was to try to continue to expose the game, and also finding the niche that would allow maximum exposure for television.  And so having the Sunday-Tuesday format is going to be a new experience for us.  I think in some ways, that's going to be something we review a lot more closely than looking at the predetermined sites.  Because people now going to this event, which, in fact, it has become an event that we anticipate people will add on to their vacation and do a variety of things around, clearly moving in that direction was a result of trying to increase the exposure for the game and, in fact, trying to find a window that would best set that up for women's basketball.  We will have our questions answered after we go through this for one year. 

Q.  I'm not sure what the men's schedule is, but are the finals going head-to-head, or how is that going to work?

CHERYL MARRA:  No, the men will stay with the Saturday-Monday format.  So, in fact, this year for the first time, the women's championship game will be the last basketball game of the season as opposed to the men representing that in the past. 

Q.  I just wanted to ask really quickly, looking at geography in the bracket, will we see teams  -- because of predetermined sites, will we see teams go to areas perhaps that you might not have considered sending them to before? 

CHERYL MARRA:  I'm not exactly sure how to answer that question, because in the past when the Top 16 seeds got to host, that was determinant of where we (inaudible) team.  So there's always a possibility that we will be sending teams to new places that they have not been before.  For example, I'm not aware that Cincinnati has hosted a first and second round.  Obviously, there are teams that are going to go there that hhave never been there before.  New Mexico, I'm not aware of recently where they have hosted a first and second round.  So you're absolutely right, we will be sending some teams there that have never been there before.  That is one of the things that was part of the consideration - to find sites around the country and to allow people to host that truly wanted to move forward and host the first and second round. 

Q.  I suppose in terms of when you spoke earlier about trying to keep them within an hour time zone and that type of thing, how are the sites going to  -- will that take precedent over sending them, you know  -- for example, a team from maybe Texas going to the west coast as opposed to somewhere that might be closer? 

CHERYL MARRA:  Again, it depends on once those brackets are put together and who, in fact, is in that particular bracket to make sure that the higher-seeded team does have an advantage relative to the amount of travel that they may have to do.  So we always want to, if possible, keep them within their time zone; but if that can't be possible, to move them in either direction - east or west, within one time zone. 

Q.  You mentioned Cincinnati on a couple of occasions.  Just kind of looking at some of the information that's out there, it doesn't look as though they're going to be a Top 4 seed.  I'm trying to understand, given everything that you've said throughout the conference, how it advances the game if, say, Cincinnati winds up being a 6 seed  - just hypothetically speaking  - they have a 3 and 11 and a 14 coming there.  You have the potential for a 3 having to play a 6 on their home court.  Other than, again, manufacturing parity, I'm not real sure that I understand how that benefits the game.  If you could maybe explain that...

CHERYL MARRA:  What that does  - and you're right, that would be the grouping that would potentially be there  - first of all, it allowed the city of Cincinnati to go out, market, and promote within their particular city and that particular state, for people to know in advance that they can come and watch four great teams play women's basketball.  That is an advantage that I think a city like Cincinnati may not have had in the past, or those that are true basketball fans that are in that area have not had that opportunity in the past.  It also allows us to have television come in there and have each and every one of those games on TV, which certainly advances the women's game.  You're able to follow your teams now right from the beginning as opposed to waiting until you got to a regional site and know who, in fact, you're following.  So that certainly advances the game for any true basketball fans that are out there and want to follow women's basketball.  So I think you have to look at a variety of different things that you're trying to incorporate all at the same time. 

Q.  So then those things in that particular situation then take a precedence or a priority over the competitive aspect of the game? 

CHERYL MARRA:  Well, again, it's hard to say that one is a priority over the other, because you don't know exactly who's going to end up at those particular sites.  That's the beauty of everybody starting off the year all at the same place, to make a run as much as you possibly can to be one of those Top 64 teams.  Each and every game is an important game.  Each and every one has the potential to advance somebody to the next game.  When you are doing that, you have to be able to put a variety of factors together and say all of them are important, and how do you move forward with getting teams on television, how do you move forward with fans having the opportunity to come to the game, and at the same time give them great games to watch, and do you do that at the expense of maybe just setting up the top seeds always to be hosting and not advancing that at all.  It's a tough call, but, in fact, we believe that this was a step that was in the right direction.

Q.  So all or a lot of this then stems out of the television exposure issue then?

CHERYL MARRA:  Well, there's no doubt that television has played a part in this.  I think we'd be remiss if we did not certainly acknowledge that.  But I do believe that this was in the works to go to predetermined sites before ESPN had done the contract that we could, in fact, televise 63 games.  There has been discussion  - I'm sure you probably have received the information  - for about seven years as to "How can we move the game forward ultimately leading to neutral sites?"  That discussion has been ongoing, and we believe will be the ultimate once we can get to neutral sites.  So this was a step in between.  This is a step where we believe that while the country might not be ready to follow women's basketball neutrally, they certainly want to continue to follow their particular teams, and how can we do that and yet let everybody around the country have access to that.  It was a step in the right direction, but it didn't go as far as some would have liked. 

Q.  Again, with regard to Stanford, which may be in a unique position, I don't know, they're hosting the first and second and, I believe, a regional.  Is that correct?

CHERYL MARRA:  That's correct.

Q.  Could the Cardinals, in a sense, stay in their arena all four games, or is this something that, in fact, probably won't happen in the format that you're discussing now? 

CHERYL MARRA:  In fact, that very well could happen.  The four regional sites, three of the four regional sites are also hosting first and second rounds.  In each of those cases, if their teams would get into the championship and then in turn continue to advance, they do have the possibility of being on their floor all the way through that. 

Q.  I see. 

CHERYL MARRA:  This will be the first and only year that that's possible.  In the future we have said that you cannot host a first and second round and a regional in the same particular year.

Q.  Okay.  So this is the only time this can happen?

CHERYL MARRA:  That's correct. 

Q.  Okay. 

CHERYL MARRA:  And we did that because by the time we went to predetermined sites for first and second round, these schools had already committed to regionals, and we did not think it was fair to disadvantage them from that opportunity. 

Q.  Kind of along that same line, I mean, is the committee comfortable with that, that possibly three teams could have a chance to go to the Final Four playing four games at home, and would you anticipate some backlash? 

CHERYL MARRA:  Well, just so you know, this is not the first time that has been a potential.  In the past when you had the Top 16 sites, or Top 16 seeds being the sites that were selected, several of them had also put in and received bids for a regional.  So this is not a few phenomenon that's out there.  There have been teams in the past that have certainly had that opportunity and taken advantage of that opportunity.  So that's already been out there as a precedent. 

Q.  Again, sort of staying along this line, do you envision any scenario in which a team that will host a predetermined site would not be placed at their home site?

CHERYL MARRA:  At this point in time, no, we do not anticipate that. 


Q.  This may be something that is too complicated, but you do have some sites, your first- and second-round sites, that are geographically very close to some of the men's first- and second-round sites.  Is there any way, for the purposes of trying to boost attendance for both, that you guys can coordinate with the men's committee and try to in some way maybe to place a team, if it's within the parameters of seeding, place a team very close to the other team and they would, maybe, you know, boost their attendance?

CHERYL MARRA:  That is not something we've ever looked at. 

Q.  Just too complicated?

CHERYL MARRA:  The men are conducting their deliberations at the same time we are.  Obviously, what's most important is to protect the integrity of our championship, and they are protecting the integrity of theirs to make sure that those selected, those seeded and those placed within their particular brackets meet the goal of the championship, and that's to provide your best 64 teams in a format that provides for the best.  So it may circumstance happen, but it is not something we would sit down and work on together. 

Q.  It's possible, say, Texas or of course I'm thinking of LSU since I cover them, both their teams could wind up in the Oklahoma City area, it's possible.  It would be just kind of, "Oh, look what happened." 

CHERYL MARRA:  Exactly, it would be, "Oh, look what happened," as opposed to the two committees getting together to make that determine. 

Q.  Back to this line of questioning about these teams that have the potential of playing first and second round and then hosting regionals, being on their home floors, how much thought was given to maybe not allowing these teams to be one of the predetermined sites for those first- and second-round games? 

CHERYL MARRA:  We talked about it.  That was something that did get quite a bit of deliberation with the committee taking a look at, now that we're going to move into predetermined sites, we need to put the bids out to see who, in fact, may choose to be one of those  doing this for the first time.  And if you precluded the four regional sites, the committee just felt that was very unfair.  Had they known up front that you had a choice of first and second round or regionals, they may have chosen first and second round over regionals, so we would have put them at a distinct disadvantage in terms of what you get to choose to bid on.  So we talked about it, we took a look at it.  And, again, like I said earlier, the fact that it's been done in the past, while I don't have the statistics in front of me, there have been those who have hosted first, second round and regional and have gone through to the Final Four with that exact scenario.  I know it could have happened last year.  Iowa State was a Top 16 seed, and they had the chance to play at home in first and second round, and they were also hosting the regional.  They didn't advance out of the first and second round, but they would have been put in that same position had they won.   In the future that will not happen.  Assuming we get enough bids for first and second round, they would have to decide one or the other. 

Q.  Just following along this same line again, how can you say that the tournament is trying to take steps toward some sense of neutrality when you still have regionals on people's home floors and you still have this possibility of three teams potentially being able to play at home the whole time on the way to the Final Four?  I mean, I know this has happened in the past, but you made this great declaration of taking some steps to try to do it a different way, yet you're still playing regionals on people's home courts.

CHERYL MARRA:  It's called growing pains.  As you are growing and you are trying to develop the product, there are things that aren't going to fall in line exactly what you wanted to have happen.  It's the timing.  It doesn't have to do with what your intent is; we still continue to have the same intent to move forward as neutral as we can, but there are steps that we have to take along the way to move there that are as fair as possible to  those schools that are choosing to put the energy and the finances behind hosting this. 

Q.  Yet you've got future regionals within the state of Tennessee, within the State of Connecticut, I believe they're going to be going back to Albuquerque in the next few years, are you just not getting enough other people to bid for these regionals?  Are you going with what you think will be able to sell some tickets?

CHERYL MARRA:  Well, in the future, those people that are hosting regionals will not have the opportunity to host first and second round.  They will know that.

Q.  Along this line of trying to take steps towards neutrality, can you see a point where you would ideally like to get more regional bids that aren't on someone's home floor or aren't so close to someone's fan base that you could say it's somewhat neutral? 

CHERYL MARRA:  I think there's two ways to look at neutral.  One is to look at those facilities that typically are not played by the college institutions but are still close.  Some would say that's neutral because we still want the fans to continue to be able to follow their teams, but they'd be on a neutral floor.  It wouldn't be their home facility.  Then the second is to move totally away from them even having a chance to stay closer to home.  I would venture to say that even the men have taken a step to try and get the teams that are in the championship closer to home if they possibly can, because I think that's important for the fans and for the institutions to be able to support them as they are going through.  So clearly we are looking for regional possibilities where you have neutral arenas.  In other words, cities might be bidding on regionals, as they do now for Final Four, and that's something we certainly are exploring to see if we can move some of our regional tournaments to host cities as opposed to host institutions.  That is a step along the way as well.

Q.  You've talked about early ticket sales.  I've been to a few of these places that are hosting regionals or sub-regionals.  They say they have maybe only sold a thousand or two.  Would you consider that a low number, a high number, maybe better than it was under the old system?

CHERYL MARRA:  I guess I haven't focused at this point in time on regional numbers to be able to honestly answer that.  We've taken a look at the first and second rounds clearly to see where we are at that point in time.  We anticipate - the one thing that is the unknown right now is who is in and where are they going and what kind of travel base will they take with them.  Clearly, as you move along to the regionals, that's something that many times they are waiting to see where they are going to go. 

Q.  Along these lines, could you get to a point like the men in terms of, say, it might be the best of both worlds, get eight teams to like a super sub-regional then mix and match where you may have different regions, geographic regions in one place, then they go into the Round of 16 for the separate geographies?

CHERYL MARRA:  We've talked about that as well, yes, if we could go from 16 sites to 8 sites.  Again, I think one thing that you need to keep in mind is our ultimate goal is out there.  The question is, what's the timing, as you take each of these steps to move forward.  Right now, 16 sites on a campus, garnering support, having the television, trying to have some of those be neutral is a pretty big step, something we haven't done in the past.  Then you might want to step forward and say, "Okay, when do you go from 16 sites to 8 sites?  Do you ever go from 16 sites to 8 sites?"  Could you, in fact, support that the same way right now that seems to be fairly well supported for the men.  Certainly, part of our consideration.  "Could you go off campus sites to neutral sites, or just cities that are supporting them?"  There are an awful lot of factors that we want to take into effect.  But as we do that, we protect some things that we think are very good about what we have, and that is the fan following, those that are supporting the particular teams, to moving more neutral for the tournament.  There are a lot of different factors - and many of you have brought them up today  - that are part of the consideration.  It is very hard to determine which ones are the most important.  For us right now, we select, we seed, and we bracket trying to make the best possible championship scenarios for those schools that have earned them during the year.  All the other factors, where you're going to play and how you have the possibility to advance depending on hosting, are also factors - some within our control and some without.  But clearly you've raised wonderful points, points that I would have to say the committee has looked at:  How quick do you move to neutral?  Could we possibly go to eight sites?  Could we go off campus sites and have it even be more neutral?  Fair enough, and I think it's part of the growing pains as we're going forward, but exciting times to be able to look at "do people think we have an interest," that we can go there. 

Q.  One other question.  You don't hear the individual teams on these calls being discussed.  But there's been a different emphasis in some years.  Some years what you did in the regular season might help you more if you happen to stumble in the conference tournament, and other years teams get hot in conference tournaments.  How does it look this year in terms of how it's coming out in terms of the total process?

CHERYL MARRA:  You're right.  I think some years the conference tournaments might not be quite as critical to some teams.  The one thing I would have to say that I have looked at as I've watched these conference championships, it may not be so much that teams are using a conference championship to get into the tournament, as much as it's going to affect their seeds.  I've seen some wonderful tournaments already, and they have clearly allowed the committee to look at how strong some of these teams are coming on toward the end of the season, how teams that might have started more slowly have continued to get better and better as the season has gone on, which potentially could affect how well they could be seeded as the tournament goes on.  But I think each and every game throughout the season has put them in great position when they come to conference tournament time.  More than anything, I've seen the tournaments having the potential to affect seeding this year as opposed to getting teams into the tournament - with the exception of the upsets.  That is always great for the championship, to allow teams to access the tournament through automatics. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT