NBA DRAFT
June 24, 2010
Kevin Seraphin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  No. 17 Selection, Chicago Bulls

 Q. Wanting to ask about Rodrigue Beaubois who had success in his rookie year, and do you look forward to having success playing against him at the next level? 
 KEVIN SERAPHIN: He gave me a lot of advice, he's like my best friend, like a brother for me. For sure we talk a lot together and he was giving a lot of advice about the next level, how I need to work and everything. 

 Q. Talk about how soon you expect to have an impact in the NBA, or how long are you going to be in the NBA? 
 KEVIN SERAPHIN: When I started to play ball, it was like five years ago, only five years ago. 
 When I started, I was right away dreaming about playing in the NBA, because it's the best league in the world. And I want to be a good player in the NBA and I have a good feeling with the team in Washington. They told me they really count on me and I'm going to work. I know that I have to work hard now. And to get the opportunity to play with John Wall is going to help me, too, because John Wall is a tremendous player. 

 Q. Can you just talk about how the Wizards first got in touch with you and your communication with them in the last few months leading up to today? 
 KEVIN SERAPHIN: I think Washington is probably the team, one of the teams to come to see the matches a lot. They came a lot to France to see me. We got a good communication with the scouts and the GMs of the team. We got a good feeling with this team and that's why when we knew we got a trade and to get the 17th pick, we got a lot of confidence on the Draft. 

 Q. There's talented, young big men in Washington, and of course you are going to be competing for minutes. So what's your mindset going into Summer League and training camp, etc.? 
 KEVIN SERAPHIN: I'm going to try to go step-by-step and work to get minutes, because every year, I put some objective, like goals, and I did well every year. 

 Q. In light of the debacle of the World Cup, do you think basketball will become more popular than soccer in France very quickly? 
 KEVIN SERAPHIN: Yeah, I expect that the basketball players from France are going to be more popular and basketball is going to have a better place with the media, hopefully. (Laughing).

 Q. Can you just talk about your strengths and weaknesses and who would you compare yourself to in the NBA? 
 KEVIN SERAPHIN: I have a physical -- natural physical ability, like 280 pounds. I don't really lift, you know what I mean? I play rebounds, block shots, toughness. I'm a tough player and strong and use my body for that because I have natural abilities. And I can score. Getting better and better offensively, too.

 Q. Which NBA player would you say you resemble? 
 KEVIN SERAPHIN: Nene in Denver and Al Horford.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT