WIMBLEDON
July 7, 2016
Venus Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. KERBER/V. Williams
  6‑4, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

Q. Is winning in doubles any consolation after losing singles?
VENUS WILLIAMS: Well, any match I'm going into, I'm going into trying to win. Just because I didn't get the result in the first match doesn't mean I'm not going to go for it in the doubles. 
They're two separate matches, so I wouldn't call it a consolation, I won my doubles match. 

Q. In the singles, were you struggling to put the first serve in?
VENUS WILLIAMS: Yeah, she played so well. Just credit to her for playing well. Second final of the year. It shows she's doing something right. 

Q. We asked Serena earlier if she remembers the first time she beat you in tennis. She says she thought it was as a pro, but she said your memory is better than hers. 
VENUS WILLIAMS: It was definitely as a pro, but I don't remember when exactly. I'm definitely sure it's on the record, though. 

Q. What feeling do you take from your singles run here to the semifinals as you leave Wimbledon, as far as the singles are concerned?
VENUS WILLIAMS: Yeah, you know, a lot of great tennis, a lot of matches. You know, steps away from making it to the end. That's the position I want to be in, is playing in the semifinals, playing for a space in the final. That's what I want. 
So it's a lot of positives, for sure.

Q. What do you think this does in the way of impetus for future majors in singles?
VENUS WILLIAMS: Every tournament is a little different. I'm playing a lot of big events coming up this summer, like the Olympics, the US Open, the US Open Series. This is a great start. 
Honestly, there was a lot of great tennis at the French, too. So a lot of good things. 

Q. I believe your first pro match was in Oakland many years ago. What memories do you have of that first pro match? Are you sort of surprised that you're still going and playing as well as you are now?
VENUS WILLIAMS: Yeah, it was a wonderful time. I wasn't very nervous. I mean, I was, but not too much after the warmup. It's great to think about the start, and it's great to be here where I am now. It's all been an amazing experience, a real joy. 
Am I surprised? I don't know. I mean, it's not typical, I guess, but it sure is happening. 

Q. Any advice you might give Serena? 
VENUS WILLIAMS: I talked a lot about advice. I'll give her a few pointers. For the most part, she's got to go out there and play the match she wants to play, not that I want her to play. She has to make the plays she's comfortable with. 
She's got experience. She'll have an opportunity to be able to take another title. 

Q. You had a strong, interesting year. What do you think you learned the most from this season?
VENUS WILLIAMS: Learned the most? I mean, it's definitely not my first tennis season, so... 
In seasons, there's ups and there's downs. I don't think I've played a match where my opponent hasn't played well. I've played against some really top‑level opponents in singles and doubles. 
I've lost some matches. I think I won more than I lost, so that's always good. 

Q. If you could play any different against Sanchez Vicario in the second round in Oakland, what could you have done?
VENUS WILLIAMS: Probably just held serve. Up 3‑0 in the second. I was 14 years old, so what are you going to do? At that age, I definitely have no regrets about that match. I had no experience. 

Q. Will we see you back next year for your 20th Wimbledon?
VENUS WILLIAMS: I would love to. I would love to. It's all in the plans. If it's different, I'll be sure to let you know. 

Q. Do you have any regrets about today's match? What do you think the differences were today?
VENUS WILLIAMS: I mean, totally I wanted to win. I mean, what are you going to do? You just step up and do the best you can. I ran into a better player, so next time. 

Q. There are many ways to judge success and to weigh success. How would you look at the success of your Wimbledon fortnight?
VENUS WILLIAMS: I played against a lot of great opponents. I had a lot of tough matches. It's not easy out there. 
Of course, I did a lot of what I wanted to do. Definitely wanted to do more today, try to arrive to Saturday. 
But a lot of positives. Of course, I'd like to continue to play this way. 

Q. Looking at the two semifinals, both done inside two hours today. Do you think the fans got value for their money? What do you say to people who said they didn't get value for their money today?
VENUS WILLIAMS: I don't really have a comment on that question. Sorry. 

Q. Any reason why no comment?
VENUS WILLIAMS: Hey, free choice. 

Q. Very few players in their mid‑30s seem to have a rebirth and get better. What are your thoughts on being in your mid‑30s and the possibility that this may be a steppingstone to greater achievement than in the past few years for you?
VENUS WILLIAMS: Yeah, in life there is no such thing as impossible. It's always possible. That's what you feel as an athlete. Pretty much our job is to make the impossible happen every day. It's like magic, you know. I like that. 
I like to think that people will continue to play a long time. 

Q. What is possible for you, do you think?
VENUS WILLIAMS: It's possible for me to get ready for the doubles tomorrow, so that's what's possible. Then get ready for the rest of the summer. That's possible, too. So a lot of possibilities. 

Q. Which is the thing you love most about tennis that motivates you to go on?
VENUS WILLIAMS: Winning matches. Duh! 

Q. How much better are you feeling about your doubles, with Rio coming up quickly, than a few months ago? Hasn't been the best results for you and Serena since the last Olympics. 
VENUS WILLIAMS: This tournament has been huge for us to play. We've played so sporadically the last few years. It's not easy to come out and play one match, then not play for a year. 
We've had a chance to build a little bit, starting in Rome, then the French, coming along here. As a team, our goal is to represent the States the best we can in Rio. It's a big job, but we're going to try to do it.

Q. What does it mean to you to inspire people, because you're doing things at an age when many of your contemporaries have hung it up?
VENUS WILLIAMS: Well, when you're an athlete, you're not out here thinking about your age. You're thinking about what can you accomplish. 
Perhaps people will think of it more that way. I'm in a good place. 

Q. When you and Serena play together as a doubles team, in some way are you greater than the two parts? Do you have a strength beyond even your individual abilities?
VENUS WILLIAMS: Perhaps. Perhaps it could be that we're together even better. Maybe that's the secret to all of our success in doubles. We never played a ton, but we had a lot of success. Both of us together fighting and playing well is definitely a good thing for our chances. 

Q. What would it mean to you to win the Wimbledon doubles championship?
VENUS WILLIAMS: I would love that. It's what I'm here for. I didn't enter the draw to lose. I didn't enter the singles draw to lose. Who does that? 
So that's the goal now, is tomorrow to do our best to win each and every point. We don't even want to lose one. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT