ROLAND GARROS
May 24, 2016
Venus Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
V. WILLIAMS/A. Kontaveit   
7-6, 7-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Fair to say that was a pretty tough opening test for you, but how did you feel about your tennis?  
VENUS WILLIAMS: Yeah, there's never any easy matches.  I never seem to get that many.   
She played well.  She came up with shots everywhere.  In that sort of case you have to just give your opponent credit for playing well and just try to play better.   
I was happy to have played better when it counted.   
 Q.  You play a young American Louisa Chirico next.  What do you know of her game, if at all?  
VENUS WILLIAMS: She's been playing well, right?  I haven't seen her play.  I don't really know much about her.   
But of course I'm happy to see her doing well.  It's always, you know, not as much fun when you have to meet an American early on, but the best part is an American will go through.   
 Q.  You have been obviously to the French Open so many times.  Where does it stand in terms of the other Grand Slams for you?  What's the atmosphere that you like here that maybe the others don't have?  
VENUS WILLIAMS: Well, there is of course a great sense of history here.  Paris is beautiful.  So it's never a burden to be here.   
It's definitely a major where you have to deal with the conditions and that sort of thing.  So there is a lot of extra stuff you're dealing with, and that's what makes it so challenging.   
 Q.  When you see opponents hitting winners from all parts of the court like today, do you feel your influence on the younger players with the power and athleticism?  
VENUS WILLIAMS: I didn't think about that.  I was just thinking about how I was going to win (smiling).   
I'm happy to see her playing that well.  The last time we played, it was probably, you know, not easy for her in the situation.  I think this time she just of course probably wanted to play her best, and I understand that.   
 Q.  How, if at all, have the practice courts changed here as far as getting practice time over the years here in Paris?  Is it more crowded than it used to be?  How would you compare it here versus the other majors?  Is it less, more busy?  Is it the same?  
VENUS WILLIAMS: It seems to be extremely busy here.  Definitely.  Just have to be on your toes and be willing to practice early, I guess.   
 Q.  Have you practiced here?  There is a new practice facility just a couple blocks away.  
VENUS WILLIAMS: Yeah, I mostly practice at the other site.   
 Q.  We know that Serena has conquered the French language or done a good job.  We have not really heard you speak French.  Have you had an interest or not very good at it, or tell us about it.  
VENUS WILLIAMS: I'll let her do that part (smiling).   
 Q.  Not into languages?  
VENUS WILLIAMS: Actually, I am.  But, you know, she's bold, you know.   
 Q.  Speaking of your sister and of bold, what do you make of her Snapchatting?  She's quite a revolution on Snapchat.  
VENUS WILLIAMS: No, she's, like I said, the cool sister.  So I haven't really seen the Snapchats.  Then once I hear about it, they're gone.  You have to be in the know quickly.  I don't know.  It's hard for me to keep up with it.   
 Q.  Is that a good thing they're gone or a bad thing?  
VENUS WILLIAMS: I don't know.  I guess that's how Snapchat works, right?  It's there for a minute, and then it's gone.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT