CHINA OPEN
October 6, 2015
Venus Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.  
   
 Q. A tough match and a loss. Can you just talk about how you thought you played out there. Also in the first set you called the trainer, but there was no medical timeout.   
VENUS WILLIAMS: Yeah, I didn't need a timeout. I just needed something from the trainer.   
You know, it was just a tough match, obviously a tough draw. You know, I've had a good advantage in our series, but just maybe not my best tennis today. Had a hard time kind of controlling the ball. Felt like it was flying.   
I know the first set I had, like, a few errors. I'm not sure where the second set ended. She really seemed to have a lot of luck today and I didn't have as much on my side.   
   
 Q. In tournaments this year you have good performances, like Wimbledon or Wuhan last week. Players more than 30 years old, like you, Serena, or Flavia, are still competitive this year. How do you like this phenomenon? What motivates you most in this period?   
VENUS WILLIAMS: Well, if you have talent, determination and good health, you can do a lot with it. It is a simple explanation. If you want to play, so...   
   
 Q. You've played a lot of matches in the last few days. Now that you have a few days off, what are you looking forward to most?  
VENUS WILLIAMS: Just going to rest and playing again next week, so try to go into next week just 100% healthy, 100% confident. That's pretty much my goal at this point.   
   
 Q. What aspect of your game have you been most pleased with over the course of the last couple weeks?  
VENUS WILLIAMS: I don't know. Winning matches (smiling).   
You know, I wasn't always playing my best, but find a way to always keep it competitive. Able to win when you're down. So that always feels good.   
   
 Q. Your body might be 35, but we've been seeing a lot of vintage Venus lately. Do you have a forever age in your mind that you are?  
VENUS WILLIAMS: I never heard of 'forever age'.   
   
 Q. In your mind you're always that age.   
VENUS WILLIAMS: I don't know. It would probably be pretty young. Young at heart, that's for sure. I'm a pretty light‑hearted kind of person.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT