DONGFENG MOTOR WUHAN OPEN
October 3, 2015
Venus Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
(Indiscernible audio).   
   
 Q. When you say you're still focused and want to play, think about the next match, do you really think you'll be able to play next week in Beijing?  
VENUS WILLIAMS: I absolutely do want to play and I'll do everything I can to be ready to play. I want to be as close to 100% as possible.   
So that's my goal.   
   
 Q. Is it easy when you're playing a match not to be thinking, Okay, maybe I'm hurting myself really badly, or is it easy to block this out?  
VENUS WILLIAMS: By the time I'm on the court, I've blocked it out if I've decided I'm going to play. At that point I'm in the match and not anywhere else.   
But of course there's doubt before you walk on the court. Just try to do as much as you can to get to the point where you're not thinking about it.   
   
 Q. I'm wondering if there was a moment maybe early in the first set where obviously there's stress in the back of your mind physically whether or not you can play at your best, but maybe a missed shot from her or a point she played and didn't play the way she wanted that gave you kind of confidence?  
VENUS WILLIAMS: Yeah, uhm, I think just getting the break at 4‑2, I felt like I started to feel more rhythm for her game. I had a breakpoint that I lost. But after that I felt like I'm starting to understand her game a little bit more.   
We haven't played in close to a couple years now. She's really improved since that time. So just to get a feel for what she's doing, that always helped. So I felt at that moment to find some rhythm.  
   
 Q. In between the lines, what were you particularly pleased with with how you were able to execute today?  
VENUS WILLIAMS: I don't know (laughter). I was just so focused to do my best to win the games. There were some breaks which, of course, aren't ideal. I like to hold serve as much as possible. So that always feels, like when I'm not holding serve, I'm not at my best. I feel that's what I want to do when I walk on the court, is hold serve.   
But I guess just being better on the important points.   
   
 Q. This is your biggest title since Dubai back in 2010. What does that mean for you? What do you think it means about this part of your career?  
VENUS WILLIAMS: Well, I feel like everyone else on tour: I work hard, I give my best. As long as you continue to work and believe in yourself, you're going to have results.   
That's exactly what I've done. It's never been the easiest road, but it doesn't mean that it's not a road worth traveling.   
   
 Q. With this result, you'll be top 8 in the Road to Singapore.   
VENUS WILLIAMS: Really?   
   
 Q. Yeah. So Singapore is a possibility. Sounds like you're shocked by that. What would it mean to potentially be able to qualify?  
VENUS WILLIAMS: I haven't been counting points.   
   
 Q. That's our job.   
VENUS WILLIAMS: Yes. It's easier to count points when you're not playing.   
I don't know. I'll just keep trying to play, try to be healthy, try to hold serve. I had some off days serving this week. It's hard when you're playing back‑to‑back‑to‑back‑to‑back. You don't get a chance to go to the court and practice and find the rhythm again. So I'm hoping to rest, try to get my leg 100%, then have a chance to also practice.   
As long as I'm serving big, it makes my life so much easier. So just try to get back on the rhythm for that and feel healthy, and I probably have a good chance. I mean, wow.   
   
 Q. Watching you play this week, just the level you were able to maintain across the tournament, it kind of made a few of us think, Gosh, if only she were on the other side of the draw at Wimbledon or the US Open. Does that ever cross your mind at all?  
VENUS WILLIAMS: Of course. It's been such tough draws for me this year. Every major on the same side. Every tournament we played together, except a couple, same side of the draw. You would think the odds would put you on the other side at that point.   
It's hard when you see sometimes the other side of the draw there's nothing happening. Those are opportunities for other players that they've really capitalized on, been able to improve their game.   
Feel happy for them to do that. If I keep improving, it gives us a better chance to be on the other side of the draw. But really had a tough year. It was just bad luck.   
   
 Q. We noticed last night eagle eye. Maybe you think that is a miss‑judge. How do you get into the court without eagle eye?   
VENUS WILLIAMS: It's hard when you get used to playing with it, especially in these big tournaments, when the points really matter.   
A lot of the balls are close. There was one particular shot where the ball was just out, and I didn't get the call. I was serving to stay in the match. That was frustrating because that's when you really need the point. It was mine. That was my point. I earned it. So that one was very frustrating for me.   
You can't let it undo you. I'm happy I survived that moment.   
   
 Q. I am one of your fans and also I bring my parents here to Wuhan to watch you play, especially with Radwanska, a very late game, and also a wonderful performance. I want to know will you be here in Wuhan next year and what are your expectations?  
VENUS WILLIAMS: Really great experience here this year. I had opportunity to see the city, see that it's actually a beautiful city with a lot of people who are very excited about tennis. That will only grow.   
I had a wonderful experience. I think it may be my favorite city in Asia. Of course, having a great result here helps. It's a good experience. But I've really come to enjoy it here.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT