DONGFENG MOTOR WUHAN OPEN
September 29, 2015
Venus Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

Q. Congratulations on your 700th career win. How does it feel? 
VENUS WILLIAMS: I didn't know. I'm glad nobody told me before. I would have been a little bit nervous. 
It was a good match, a quality player. I never played her before, so that was also an experience in itself. 

Q. How much do these sorts of milestones still mean to you? Do you care, do you not? 
VENUS WILLIAMS: Yeah, I was thinking, How long would it take me to get to 800? Maybe that was my first thought (smiling). 
But it's been a great 700 wins along the way.

Q. Did you ever think you'd be in Wuhan, China, at some point in your career, maybe back 10, 15 years ago?
VENUS WILLIAMS: Yeah, Wuhan, China's on the map now. Has a big tournament, champion players. I never thought I'd be here, but I'm happy to be here.

Q. What's your thoughts on the facilities here, what you've been able to see while you've been in town?
VENUS WILLIAMS: Yeah, there's been a lot of pride that's gone into building this place, to building a tournament that has a wonderful reputation, and also something to build on in the future. 
So I appreciate everything that's been done here. 

Q. You mentioned your potential 800th win. What continues to motivate you?
VENUS WILLIAMS: Who doesn't like winning? You know, that never gets old. It's easy to say. 

Q. Next year, anything particular on the horizon that's exciting you? The Olympics?
VENUS WILLIAMS: Yeah, the Olympics. That will be awesome to be able to play there, represent the U.S. again. That will be an honor.

Q. Could you talk a little bit about Stacey Allaster, her decision to step down. You've obviously known a bunch of different WTA CEOs. What has been her legacy and what's it been like to work with her?
VENUS WILLIAMS: Yeah, she definitely had a lot of wonderful things. Raised prize money, implemented the WTA Roadmap. Now it's her time to be with her family and to slow down a little bit because she went at a fast pace and I know she's proud of everything she accomplished.

Q. Talking about the facilities here and the fantastic new stadium they've built, do you take it as another good sign for women's tennis future, too?
VENUS WILLIAMS: Yeah, definitely a great time for women's tennis, but also for tennis. I'm not sure what's happening at the grassroots level here in China, but it has to be some amazing things. 
I've hit with a lot of young players. They're hitting really well. Hopefully young people playing tennis, older people getting involved. See a lot of use out of this facility. 

Q. I would like to know your dress, your clothes, is it designed especially for the Wuhan Open? It goes with your hairstyle. Your hairstyle is also very special. 
VENUS WILLIAMS: Oh, thank you. I wish I designed something for the Wuhan Open, but it does work well with the court color. It's my line, called EleVen by Venus. Maybe one day we'll be in China. That's the plan. 
My hair is always changing. It's different every week. I never know what's going to happen with it. 
Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT