WIMBLEDON
July 3, 2015
Venus Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 V. WILLIAMS/A. Krunic
  6‑3, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.  
   
 Q.   It's hard to believe it's been 15 years since you first won here.   The Venus Williams that was here in 2000 and the Venus Williams today, how is she different?   And the Serena of 2000 and the Serena of today, how is she different?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   I don't know.   15 years ago, everybody's a different person.   Everyone's a different player.   
I think we're both more mature.   Still as tenacious.   I mean, back then we were definitely fun to watch.   I think we still are.   
   
 Q.   How would you describe the emotions when you face your sister and whether it's fun or just something that's really a burden?   
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Yeah, we've been facing each other a long time so we both have a lot of respect for each other's game.   We both play quite well.   We both know we have to play well against each other.   I think we probably know each other best.   
   
 Q.   What is the emotional challenge when you face Serena as compared with any other player for you?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   I think we probably have the most respect for each other than anyone else on the tour.   
I think we're both invested in each other's‑‑ uhm, we both want each other to win when we're not playing each other.   So there's a difference.   Whereas other players, I'm not watching whether they win or lose.   
I think that's the difference.   
   
 Q.   Does that make it harder or easier when you face her?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   You just have to be focused.   There's no easy points against Serena.   
   
 Q.   Serena said she felt like you were playing better on grass right now than she was.   How do you feel at this point?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Well, I think no matter how Serena's playing, she knows how to win.   I think I'm playing very well actually.   Just have to keep that up.   No match has been easy.   
   
 Q.   Did you watch the end of Serena's match?   If so, where did you watch it?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   I saw some of it because I had to cool down.   It was a little nerve‑wracking, too.   A little of all of the above.   
I didn't see it because I was on court too.  
   
 Q.   Did you watch the decisive part of the set, did you watch her win?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   I didn't see the last game, no.   But clearly it was just dramatic.   
   
 Q.   She's had an amazing battling season, so many comebacks.   
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Yeah, I'm definitely just amazed at everything she's accomplished.   It's exciting.   It's exciting to see this happen for her, and for us as a family really.   It's Serena and I and mom and dad and all of us.   
   
 Q.   It's been six years since you and Serena have faced each other at a Grand Slam.   It was here in 2009.   How do you feel like it will feel differently at all when you walk on court Monday and will you take a little bit of time to soak in the atmosphere?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Yeah, that was a final, so it was definitely different.   The tournament is not all said and done after this round, so...   You have to presume that even after that round, the competition will continue to get tougher.   
   
 Q.   What do you consider to be your sister's legacy?   
VENUS WILLIAMS:   I don't think her legacy's over yet so it's too early to comment.   Clearly she's done more than most people have done with several lifetimes in life and in tennis.   
The good part is still good times to come.   
   
 Q.   What is it like for you to witness the possibility of history in the making again for Serena as she pursues the Grand Slam with you in the way?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   It's definitely interesting, that's for sure.   So we just have to see what happens.   Honestly, it's interesting.   
   
 Q.   I think Serena was hitting at Jack Nicklaus' grass courts in Florida before she came over here.   Did you, as well?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Yeah, a little bit of time on grass, yeah.  
   
 Q.   Did you practice together or separate?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   We were on different schedules.   Once you win the French Open, you know, you have to rest a little bit.   We were on different schedules.   I had more free time.   
   
 Q.   Serena said she thought the crowd would be cheering for you in the match.   She said she knew she would be cheering for you if she were in the crowd.   
VENUS WILLIAMS:   That's interesting.   I'll probably be cheering for her (laughter).   
I don't know.   I haven't given any thought to the crowd really.   
   
 Q.   She said she felt your story was so inspirational, you never gave up.   
VENUS WILLIAMS:   No, there's no such thing as giving up for me in my life.   But also for her.   She's been through so much.   The awesome part is, no matter what she's been through, she's never complained.   You see players that continue to talk about injuries that are like nine thousand years old.   She never complained once.   You have to give her credit for that.   She's gone through so much that no one could even imagine.   
   
 Q.   Do you think it's gotten any closer to feeling like a normal match when you play Serena or is it always going to be something different?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   I think it would be a normal match if one of us was not very good.   But since we both do have some sort of talent level, that's what makes it interesting because we both can play.   
   
 Q.   I meant more on a psychological or emotional level.   
VENUS WILLIAMS:   I think everybody's always looking for some answer, and it really is you have to play the match.   It doesn't matter who's across the net, you have to play, show up, compete, do your best, and it doesn't change.   
   
 Q.   Has competing against your sister in some ways brought you closer together?   If so, how have you been able to do that?   
VENUS WILLIAMS:   I think competing with each other has nothing to do with whether we're close or not.   I think just knowing what the other one goes through.   If I see her in a match in a tight spot, I know exactly what that feels like.   I think that's a unique relationship that is pretty rare in sport, that she and I share.   There are other siblings who have this affinity that we share.   
   
 Q.   Do you still enjoy coming back to Wimbledon as much as you did?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   It's always a privilege.   Always.   It will never not be.   
   
 Q.   When Maria Sharapova was in this interview room earlier tonight, she said when she walks onto the grounds, she has in her mind the images of when she won.   For you as a five‑time champion, what images of past experiences here go through your mind when you walk onto the grounds and the court?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   I live in the present.   Very easygoing kind of person, so...   I remember the past at times, but I'm pretty much in that moment when I come here.   I don't do too much deep thinking.   I think when you walk on the court, for me you've already trained so hopefully it's automatic.   
No visions when I walk on‑site.   Of course, it's where I want to be at this time of year.   
   
 Q.   You haven't been on Centre this year yet.   Is that a problem?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   If it's a problem, I'll definitely let you know.   But no problems right here right now.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT