MIAMI OPEN PRESENTED BY ITAU
March 28, 2015
Venus Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 V. WILLIAMS/S. Stosur
  6‑4, 7‑6 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Frustrating second set.   You had three chances to close it out.   Can you tell us what happened?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Yeah.   I did.   I think I served for it a few times, but the second set didn't go exactly as I wanted.   But I put myself in a good position, and that was good.  
It was so interesting, because once I got to the tiebreaker, that's when I really started to feel a lot more rhythm in my game.   I think she did, too.   
So I think just playing extra games actually helped me.   I think I'm going to be feeling a lot better once my next rounds come around.  
   
 Q.   It's probably way too early to ask, but how much would you like to see a Williams versus Williams final in this tournament?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   I know, it is early, so we're going to have to both play our part and get there.   I would love it, though.  
   
 Q.   It's the first time since 2009 that you've played on the Grandstand.   How did you find the atmosphere and so forth?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Yeah, it was super.   It's a really nice court.   You definitely get some serious fans out there.   It was awesome.  
   
 Q.   What were your thoughts after you were up 5‑1 and it got to 5‑5 and then 6‑6.   Looked like you lost your serve quite a bit during that period.   What was going through your head?   Were you concerned?   Worried?   Panicked?   Whatever?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   You know, I just was trying to be focused.   And I think she really picked her game up, so I have to give her a lot of credit for that.   
She got aggressive and started to land a lot of good shots.   When that happens you have to be focused, because the match is not over until it's over.   
Even if you're up 5‑1 or it's match point, you have to win the last point.   So finally when the last point was over, then that's when it's all good.  
   
 Q.   What a difference a year makes.   Last year these were the kind of heartbreak matches you had.   You were up and then you would lose them.   What do you think the difference is this year?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Sometimes you have to lose.   Somebody gotta win and someone gotta to lose.   I have won a lot and lost a lot too.   Nowadays I'm winning more, and that's okay, too.  
   
 Q.   Is it also because of the tournaments you have entered and won this year that's given you more confidence in these moments again?   
VENUS WILLIAMS:   I think it's a lot of things.   You just have to keep working at everything, on and off the court, to get to the next level.   I'm doing the same thing that everyone else is doing:   trying to get better.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel like you're in a bit of a resurgence right now the way you're playing, that you're going in the right direction?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Yeah, I have heard that word quite often.   Yeah, I'm winning more matches.   It's nice.   (Smiling.)  
   
 Q.   You've heard the word resurgent more?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Lately, yeah.   
   
 Q.   Your next match will be Wozniacki.   What are your thoughts on that?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   We played a really competitive match early this year.   I can't remember the score in the last set, but it was tough.   I was just so happy to win that match, so I'm going to try to learn from that.  
I would love to win that match in two sets, but it's going to take some work.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT