QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 26, 2015
Venus Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 V. WILLIAMS/A. Radwanska
  6‑4, 1‑6, 6‑3 
   
 Q.   You played a great third set, but there was one game there when Radwanska hit all those service returns.   Did you wonder what was going on?   Did it give you pause for a second?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Yeah, at the 5‑1 game, I didn't serve badly.   I did hit a few second serves, but they were deep and with kick.   And she just‑‑ I think sometimes you get down, you just get relaxed and you start to go for broke.   She hit a winner off the first serve and competed well in the next game.   Just tried to stay focused because obviously she wasn't going to let up.   
   
 Q.   How did it compare with the match in Australia?   That was a 6‑1 final set.   You had points for 5‑1, didn't you?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   I think I was at 5‑1.  
   
 Q.   Sorry, you were up 5‑1.   
VENUS WILLIAMS:   It was different.   I think her strategy was a little bit different, but I think this court is different as well.   
Every match is different and I think since she didn't win the last match, she probably thought to come out with a little bit different strategy.   
   
 Q.   You're having a really great year this year.   We're really happy to see you back.   What's motivating you and keeping you on the Tour?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Well, I love the game and I feel like I have a lot to give and want to play the Olympics, so all of that.   
   
 Q.   How do you find the courts here?   Adding to his question, about the second set, had you actually planned to relax a little bit in that and come back in the last set?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   I don't think everybody goes out there and plans to relax.   It's very unprofessional.   She played well in the second set and I just wasn't able to get what I wanted and that's tennis.   Sometimes you don't win a set.   
   
 Q.   How do you find the courts here, the conditions and all?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   I think the courts are pretty slow.   Then conditions have been challenging because it's cold or windy, and I think tomorrow might be windy.   So try to stay focused in these conditions.   
   
 Q.   Are you aware that it's 13 years to the day since you first became world No. 1, and, if so, can you reflect on that a little bit?   
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Every year is another year.   Next year it'll be 14.   So I'm glad it happened and it was awesome.   Great times.   I should go celebrate.   
   
  
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT