QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 23, 2015
Venus Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 V. WILLIAMS/C. Dellacqua
  3‑6, 6‑2, 6‑1  
   
 Q.   Well played.   What were the conditions like?   Cold?   You were wearing leggings and things.   Did you feel a bit chilly?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Yeah, it was cold and heavy and, you know, it can be like that this time of year, though.   
   
 Q.   How do you feel about your year so far?   I mean, the Australian Open was terrific for you, wasn't it?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Yeah, I've been going nonstop this year actually.   I've played so much, I feel like, and it's only February.   So far I'm happy.  
   
 Q.   Tell me, with your medical condition, Venus, does playing tennis help you, help your health?   
VENUS WILLIAMS:   No.   I don't think it hurts it either.   
   
 Q.   Are you surprised to see yourself on the schedule for tomorrow too or was it your wish to say I want to play again?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Yeah, I was surprised to see myself on the schedule.  
   
 Q.   Because nobody of the top‑4 is playing, but you are playing again?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Yeah, I don't know.   I've got to play.   I'm on the schedule.   What else am I going to do.  
   
 Q.   But you're ready for it?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   I have to be.  
   
 Q.   Let me ask you, please, what do you expect from your next opponent's style of play, style of game?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   I played her about a year ago and she's had an amazing last 12 months, I think some of the best of her career.   I'm sure she feels confident.   I'm not really sure what to expect.   I don't know if her game has changed, so I have to be ready for whatever happens.   
   
 Q.   How much has the 2016 Olympics played in your plans?   Is that one of your big motivations at the moment, to play in Rio?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Yeah, definitely.   I mean, that's why I was at Fed Cup.   I love playing Fed Cup, but it's hard to play with the schedule.   It doesn't give you a break at all.   So it's definitely important.   I hope I can get there and play well for my country.   
   
 Q.   Do you think it's going to be tough earning your place in the team with players like Madison coming through?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   I earned it last time with little to no time to spare, so I think when I'm motivated and have focus then I can do it.   If I'm out there and healthy, then I definitely feel like, yes, I can.   
   
 Q.   Venus, are you playing Team Tennis again this summer?   If you are or aren't, what is it about the team format that you really enjoy?   I know you enjoy it.   
VENUS WILLIAMS:   I play usually a couple of matches a year.   I love it.   It's a lot of pressure actually.   I have a harder time Team Tennis than on the regular Tour, but it's enjoyable.   You're not just playing for one person.   
   
 Q.   What kind of specific rules from Team Tennis and Indian Premier Tennis League, you would accept in season, in normal season, like power point and power return?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   I don't know.   Honestly, I haven't even thought about it.   I'm just trying to figure out how to win with the rules that we have now, try to figure out how to win most of the time with that.   I don't know if I need any new rules that I can't remember yet.   
   
 Q.   If I can ask a last question, next tournament, your sister will be playing again in the Indian wells.   What do you expect in terms of reception from the public atmosphere?   It will be a big event.   
VENUS WILLIAMS:   I think Serena is just an inspirational person and player.   I'm not sure how can't be she inspiring on all fronts.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT