DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 18, 2015
Venus Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 L. SAFAROVA/V. Williams
  6‑4, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   What are your thoughts on that?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Yeah, I mean, I think she played awesome.   There were a couple of games there that I didn't even get my racquet on the ball.   What can I say to that?   
I don't think I played badly, but I couldn't afford to make any errors today.   The errors that I made were really costly, so, you know, credit to her.   I wish her the best of luck the rest of the tournament.  
   
 Q.   How tough are the conditions out there?   Seems like today is particularly hot.   
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Yeah, it's hot, but the heat has never bothered me.   I don't mind it.  
   
 Q.   You were the only player who had a day off.   Everyone else played.   Does that affect your rhythm at all?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   No, I don't think so.   I think I was ready to play.   I just, you know, needed to be, you know, hang in there with the rallies and find a way to win.  
You know, I had a couple of chances where I had openings, but, you know, today it was one of those days where if you just missed one or two chances, then the match was done.   Some days are like that.  
   
 Q.   When you've got a winning streak like you had here, which is the best by far of anyone else who has played here, does that play on your mind at all?   Do you want to keep it going?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   No, I think I was playing well this week.   I don't think I played so bad today.   I think, you know, I missed some shots that I normally would make but it wasn't many.   It was just, you know, she played really well.  
I think every time she comes out against me she's just relaxed and just swings.   It's kind of like that every time I play her.   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   You would have gotten back to the top 10 to defend the title here.   Your plans regarding that?   You're playing Doha, right?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Yeah, I play next week.   You know, the year is still early, so I have a lot of points to gain most places that I play this year, so it will be good news for me.  
   
 Q.   Will you stay here for a few more days or go straight there?   
VENUS WILLIAMS:   I don't know because I just got off the court.   We'll see what happens.   
   
 Q.   Have you set yourself any targets for this year?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   I don't know.   It's already been awesome this year.   Obviously I want to win events.   That's pretty much my target.   If you're doing that, then the ranking goes up, as well I have just been super happy with the year so far, and, you know, it's disappointing to lose but it makes me better.   You know, it's good for me to play her because I don't get to play her that often.   The way she hits the ball is a little bit different than most players.   This gives me a chance to, you know, kind of see what her game is like.  
   
 Q.   I think you probably addressed this in the round tables, but can I just clear up, you're not playing Indian Wells whereas your sister is?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   Is that purely a decision that you need to rest after an arduous round of tournaments?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   You know, I made my schedule up until ‑‑ I think I'm entered in Miami, and that's pretty much what it is.  
   
 Q.   Did they ask you to play Indian Wells?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   No.  
   
 Q.   When did Serena tell you she made that decision?   Did she ask your opinion?   What's your thoughts on her decision to play?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   You know, she didn't ask me my opinion.   She just said, I might be playing there.   I said, Oh, okay.   
That's pretty much the conversation.  
   
 Q.   Can you understand why after all this time?   Bygones be bygones and why not?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Um, I don't know.   I just respect every decision she makes, pretty much.   It's nothing complicated about it.  
   
 Q.   Can you see yourself playing there in the future, maybe next year?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   I haven't really given a lot of thought to it.   I have just been focusing on this year.   
   
 Q.   Do you like more to play indoors or outdoors?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   There is really no indoor tournaments that I play anymore.  
   
 Q.   I saw you last time in press conference in Russia, Kremlin Cup.   It was many, many years ago.   You were there with your sister.   It was indoors.   That's why I ask you.   It's so hot, if you compare the climates, this one.   Do you prefer to play indoors or outdoors?   What will be the better?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   It's all the same to me.   As long as you're playing well, indoors or outdoors is...  
   
 Q.   No difference?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   No.  
   
 Q.   Is there any difference‑‑ because they obviously swapped these.   We are used to going to Doha and then Dubai.   Do you sense any difference, or is it...   
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Yeah, a little bit of a difference, but also like last year was the first time I had even come to the Middle East for like five years, so I haven't really been active on the scene here.   We'll see next year how it feels.  
   
 Q.   Did you get around in Dubai this time, do anything you haven't done before?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Not yet I haven't.   I have just been traveling so much.   I have just been trying to get my bearings.  
   
 Q.   I see those mall visits in your future.   
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Yeah, probably.   
   
 Q.   You always said that your mood is reflected in the clothes you design, your shoes.   Your 35th year in June.   Have you any special plans in your design for Wimbledon perhaps with your clothing?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Yeah, I design so far out into the future, so Wimbledon is like something that I don't even remember anymore because we are already designing for fall '16.   Already designed that.   
When it actually comes out, I'm like, Oh, yeah, I forgot about this dress.  
   
 Q.   Designed for the fall of 2016?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Already, yeah.   
   
 Q.   Would you ever be thinking a year from now I don't like that style anymore but I already prepared it?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   It's only happened once so far, so I usually work out the kinks beforehand, especially once you see the first samples.  
   
 Q.   Did you wear the design anyway?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   I had to (smiling).   
   
 Q.   Can you tell us which one?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Yeah.   Actually the Australian Open dress, I didn't like it.  
   
 Q.   The most recent one?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   No.   But I wore it, and...   
   
 Q.   Dare we ask if you made a design in case you play the WTA Finals in Singapore?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Yeah, that probably would be the ‑‑ Holiday Resort would probably be what I would be wearing then.   So whatever that is.   I think it's green.   Like I said, it's designed so far in advance.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT