CHINA OPEN
September 28, 2014
Venus Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 V. WILLIAMS/H. Watson
  6‑3, 6‑1 
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 
 Q.   The first three games, what really happened, in your opinion?
  VENUS WILLIAMS:   Yeah, the first three games I think, you know, Heather was playing really well.   She brought a lot of balls back I don't think I was expecting.   I mean, the first games she didn't miss a serve for six points.   I give her a lot of credit. 
  I never played her before.   You have to get a rhythm of what a player is like.   I was just happy to be able to clean up my game. 
 Q.   What really changed after those first three games?
  VENUS WILLIAMS:   Just tried to play my game really.   Not that much.   I mean, the score looked like a big hole because it was 3‑Love, but it was just a break.   For me, my goal was to break and hold.   When it's 3‑2, it doesn't look so comfortable for your opponent. 
  Thankfully the games kind of just kept coming, coming, coming on my side.  
 Q.   What inspires you most at this period to play on the court?
  VENUS WILLIAMS:   To continue playing tennis?  
 Q.   Yes. 
  VENUS WILLIAMS:   Well, I love the game.   I think this is the best place for me to be. 
  I think Serena's very inspiring for me, and I think a lot of people, not just in tennis, but in life.   I think she's been an excellent example of amazing tennis and an amazing example of just hanging in there.   No matter what happens to you, you just believe in yourself and keep going.  
 Q.   That being said, you've had a long career.   There's not going to be anything new this week.   So what are your goals this week?
  VENUS WILLIAMS:   Just to try to play well.   This is the last big tournament of the year for me.   Just try to keep my momentum going and play well. 
  Really no other goals than that.   It's simple.  
 Q.   Venus, in this stage of your career, do you think health comes first or the happiness to play tennis comes first?
  VENUS WILLIAMS:   Well, I'm pretty happy when I'm playing tennis, and pretty happy when I'm winning.   I mean, it doesn't get much better than that. 
  But health is always important.   That's something I haven't had on my side as much as I've wanted in the last few years. 
  But I'm working through it.   I feel like I have more good days ahead of me than bad.   Before it was definitely the opposite.  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT