U.S. OPEN
August 29, 2014
Venus Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  S. ERRANI/V. Williams  6-0, 0-6, 7-6   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   Q.  Strange match.  First two sets love.  Ever happen before?  VENUS WILLIAMS: You never can predict how a match is going to go.  I don't think either one of us was thinking about really what the set score is.  When you're in the set you're just trying to hopefully win it.  You kind of let go of whether it was a typical score or not.   Q.  What are your thoughts on the effect that last night's late doubles match had on you for singles, and on the scheduling of the doubles in general?  VENUS WILLIAMS: I guess the schedule definitely wasn't ideal.  It was just such a late match.  Not ideal.   Q.  How did you feel today out on the court, and what effect do you think the doubles last night that late had on you today?  VENUS WILLIAMS: I really just have to emphasize that I think she played really well.  I think she just played one of the best matches of her life.  You know, that's pretty much what I can say.   Q.  How do you deal with a loss like that compared to maybe six, seven, eight years ago?  Is it the same to digest a loss like that?  VENUS WILLIAMS: I mean, in a case like today, especially you have to play another match and it's never ideal to lose two matches in a day, so... Probably the best way to recover is to get back out there and play again and try to get a win.   Q.  You were leading late; served for the match.  In your mind, was there a physical problem for you at that point?  Did you feel tight at all?  VENUS WILLIAMS: Yeah, I think at that point I went for too much.  You know, I hit some balls, you know, I think maybe early in the rally. I wanted to stay in control of the rally.  I think, you know, maybe just to set the point up a little more instead of go for it too fast.  Especially once I got it back to deuce, I think I, you know, went just for the shot too fast.   Q.  Why do you think you had a little more success this summer than the last two?  VENUS WILLIAMS: I played better.   Q.  Can you point to a reason?  Is it a physical reason?  Something else in your game?  Is there something specifically you've improved?  VENUS WILLIAMS: Well, I think if you watch me play then you're kind of able to make those kind of deductions, what's working and what's not working.  Whether it's in my game or physical or not, so... Regardless, everybody's playing well these days.  You have to be ready.  I mean, the last two points in the tiebreaker she played really flawless tennis.  It was a little bit bad luck for me. But she played well.   Q.  How great is it to still play with your sister after all these years and still set the bar so high with the level of expectation?  VENUS WILLIAMS: Yeah, doubles teams come and go, but we stick together.  Why not, though?  She plays so well.  I think she can rely on me out there, as well.  It's a match made in heaven maybe.   Q.  The visit from the trainer during the doubles, what was bothering you there?  Was that something lingering from earlier in the day?  VENUS WILLIAMS: Just a lot of tennis fast.  My fourth match in less than 48 hours.  Once you play that much against really competitive players, you know, you have a few things here and there. So thankfully I just was able to continue the match.  I really do not like injury timeouts.  I just like to keep the flow of the match going.  So it was fine.   Q.  What consideration did you give, if any, to not playing the doubles, given obviously the demands of singles?  VENUS WILLIAMS: Yeah, I think the doubles always helps the singles really.  I think in today's match, when I got to the net I usually volleyed really well.  I think just that first-round doubles match really helped that.  I felt good at the net. So besides that it helps the singles, it's an important title.  That's what I keep saying, is it's a title.   Q.  What are your feelings about this summer's performance that you put on and all of what seems a rejuvenation of your game?  VENUS WILLIAMS: I'm just really proud of, you know, the effort that I've made.  Sometimes you lose a match.  At least if I lose a match it's a rough fight from my opponent.  They don't get it easy.  So that's something to be proud of, as well. You know, today my errors were out of control.  I think I had more than double hers, so that really, really hurt me.  I wish I could have controlled that to continue a great summer, but still some big tournaments left in the fall. I'm in the doubles, so I've got a lot to be focused on.   Q.  Whenever you catch a glimpse of maybe some footage of yourself when you debuted here with the beads and the cornrows, does that seem like a lifetime ago?  VENUS WILLIAMS: Not really.  Time is continuous.  No matter what age you are, I think in your mind you still feel quite young.  I think that's everyone.  In your head you're still very young. I'm still young.  For tennis perhaps I'm older, but in life I'm a young person.  And that's how I live.   Q.  What, if anything, have you proven to yourself with the way you've been playing this summer?  VENUS WILLIAMS: Just continue to always give a good effort and try my best to be prepared.  Continue to always believe in myself.  Those sorts of things, which are real life lessons.  Hopefully inspirational for others, as well.   Q.  What do you think your performance this summer says about your future on the tour?  VENUS WILLIAMS: Future's looking bright.  You know, I definitely wish I could have taken it further today.  There will be others.  I think the more I play, the better I'll be.  I'll try to remember not to make that many errors hopefully in the next matches.  That would be pretty smart. But, you know, credit to my opponent because she didn't make the errors.  She played tough.  You know, that's what you have to do out there.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT