ROGERS CUP WOMEN
August 9, 2014
Venus Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 V. WILLIAMS/S. Williams
  6‑7, 6‑2, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.  
   
 Q.   First win over Serena in over five years.   How does it feel?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Well, I mean, it was a tough match out there.   I don't think we played for a number of years, as well.   It's not like we've been playing year in and year out.   
So I definitely expected a tough match.   She played well.   She hit so many aces.   You know, hopefully I can play that well tomorrow, as well.   
   
 Q.   Serena said she felt you were serving better today in spite of all those aces.   Did you feel that?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   I don't know.   I just felt like if I didn't serve better, then I would probably not fare so well.   I think that was maybe some extra motivation of getting some more first serves in.   
I think we were both serving pretty equal.   I think in the first she served a little better.   In the second I was maybe a little more consistent maybe with the first‑serve percentage, but I haven't looked at the percentages yet either, so I'm not sure.   
   
 Q.   You said on the court that it felt like the final today.   How do you get as excited for tomorrow's match?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Well, because I definitely don't want to be the letdown and get out there tomorrow and not play at least half as well as today.   I don't want to put any pressure on myself, but I want to go out there and try to perform just as well.   
   
 Q.   How has the emotional charge from playing Serena changed from match 1 through 25?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   I think for both of us, what's so unique about the situation is that we're both very good players.   I think typically you may have some siblings, one is quite good, one is not as good, so you kind of know what the result is, or the one that's better knows they're going to win.   
I think we both know when we walk out there, it's not like you're guaranteed a win.   I think that's what makes it challenging for both of us.   
   
 Q.   You've spent a lot of time on court over the last three days.   Do you feel it at all right now?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Maybe.   Maybe not (smiling).   She'll never know, ha‑ha‑ha.   A lot of time on court.   Making me trim down.   Best diet ever.  
   
 Q.   What about the dancing?   Are you going to go again tonight?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Maybe a little bit (smiling).   
   
 Q.   Last year after repeated victories Novak Djokovic entertained the crowd by doing a crazy victory dance.   Is there a particular song you would groove to?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   I don't know what song I'm into right now.   There's a couple of songs, I think.   Maybe I should prepare something special.   
I don't know.   I mean, if I'm fortunate enough to win this tournament, then I'm sure it will be dance‑worthy.   But got to get there first.   
   
 Q.   What would it mean to you to win this tournament?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   It would mean a lot to me because I've been dreaming of winning a tournament at this level since I got back on tour.   Like, wow, if I could win one of these, so...   
You try and you try and you try.   There's disappointments.   One day you get a little closer.   So this is my 'little closer' right now.   By all means, I definitely want to keep getting to this area where you're getting closer to the winner's circle.  
   
 Q.   How much more do you appreciate playing Serena now that the frequency isn't how it used to be?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   I don't think anyone appreciates playing Serena.   Let's get it straight.   She's tough to play.   You just are glad when she's on the other side of the draw somewhere far away, so...   
Yes, you appreciate when you can somehow manage to get a win.   I think that's kind of what it is.   Then you just hope the next time you play it could go on your side again.   
   
 Q.   How big of a deal is it for you to knock off the world's No.1 player?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Well, I don't know.   I don't know how other players see it.   But for me, I see it that to play well against, you know, the best player in the world takes a lot of courage and guts.   
But, like, I don't measure myself against anyone.   I never have and I never will.   So whatever I can produce on the court on my side is all I can control ever.   
So each person's achievements are their own.   Each one that I have is my own, as well.   I see things a little bit differently, perhaps.   
   
 Q.   Your level of play has been consistently high lately.   Almost like you've gone into a time machine a little bit.   I'm wondering if that's because you almost had to reset, and have you learned to put it together in a new way, manage the illness, manage the time?   Is this a result of relearning with a new factor to how to be a professional tennis player?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   No, actually I would say it's a great guess (smiling).   But I would say it's not that.   
I just feel better.   I pray I can keep this.   That's all I pray for nowadays.   Well, I pray for a lot more.   That would be selfish if that's all I pray for.   If I could keep this, then that would be amazing.   
   
 Q.   Nobody knows Serena's game better than you do.   How far do you think she is from getting to her top level again?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Serena is at her top level.   You can't win every match.   I think that's just how life is.   You can't win 'em all.   
She pretty much has won 'em all for the last couple years.   So sometimes you just can't do it all.   So whether or not she's at the highest level I think is clear.   
She's No.1.   Nobody wants to play her.   If you do, you have to play the match of your life.   That's apparent.   There's no doubt on that.   
   
 Q.   Did you just play the match of your life then?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   I really still don't know really what happened.   I just kept trying to hit it in.   Eventually it was over.   Honestly, I probably will have to look at the match.   I don't know.   
   
 Q.   I'm ignorant about your illness.   How do you feel better?   Sometimes you feel better, sometimes you don't?   Do you have to manage it with some sort of pharmaceuticals?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Oh, yes.   
   
 Q.   Hopefully nothing illegal.   
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Hell, no.   I have a regimen that I keep.   I never get into details.   One of these days when I'm gone I'll talk about it a little more.   At this point I have to remain competitive, so it's important for me to just, you know, get out there and not complain.   
If I don't win, I don't win.   I go out and try to figure out how I can do it.   That's pretty much what I've done.   If I haven't won for whatever reason, I go back to that drawing board and try to figure it out.   I think my recent success has been a result of that.  
   
 Q.   The regimen, is that drugs you're managing it with?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Yeah, there's typical drugs, pharmaceuticals, whatever you like to call them, pharmaceutical‑grade drugs that are typical treatments for Sjogren's and what I have.   So that's what I do.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel more pressure to win tournaments when you knock your sister out?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Maybe in some ways because it feels like she would have won, so why shouldn't I?   Or why would I just ruin it for someone else just so I could not win?   
Those are definitely thoughts that go through your head.   But in the end you have to focus on one match at a time.   If you can sleep at night knowing you tried your best, even if you didn't win, then that's enough.   
   
 Q.   You only played Serena once in the past five years.   Did you think at all today it could be your last one?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   No.   Who thinks like that?   Just negative people.   I'm definitely not one of those people.   
I always look forward to the future.   I always see the future as something awesome.   
   
 Q.   Do you have any preferences for who you play of your two possible opponents tomorrow?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   No, not really.   They both have been playing well.   They both deserve to be in the finals.   It's just up to those two at this point.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT