WIMBLEDON
June 25, 2014
Venus Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 V. WILLIAMS/K. Nara
  7/6, 6/1 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   In my opinion that was a good game today, classy game from a classy lady.   On a scale of 1 to 10, how would you describe it?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Yeah, you know, I think at the important points in the game I was able to lift my game a little.   That's what you really want to do.   Then also in the second set lift my game.   
I thought she played well.   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   At any point were you worried?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Well, I mean, walking out there I know that no one's going to give me a match.   You don't get given a match, especially at the majors.   I knew all points I would have to work for.   
   
 Q.   What reason was it that you were late for the start of the match?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Was I late?   
   
 Q.   Yes.   
VENUS WILLIAMS:   What is late?   I wasn't watching the clock.   I headed out and got to the match and we started.  
   
 Q.   There was no reason, no delay?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   No.   I don't think I was late.   
   
 Q.   It was suggested there might have been a change of apparel.   
VENUS WILLIAMS:   I don't know.   I mean, I guess she got there early.   I don't know what time she got there.   
Typically the opponents walk out together is what I thought.   That's usually what happens.   
I don't know.   We got there at different times.   That's pretty much the story.  
   
 Q.   It wasn't a story of you having to change an item of your clothing because it was colored or anything?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   No.   Who said that?   
   
 Q.   It was a suggestion.   
VENUS WILLIAMS:   That's weird.   
   
 Q.   Both you and Serena have talked about the upcoming Olympics in a couple years.   Looking ahead, I'm wondering, when you come out to play here, having been here so many years, do you ever think, This might be my last singles match at Wimbledon or do you not think that way?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   No, I definitely don't think that way.   Yeah, that pretty much sums it up.   
   
 Q.   It's been a while since you and Serena were both in the second week of a major.   When you are together in singles in the second week of a major, what's it like for you?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   I think we motivate each other.   We want to see each other win.   
I guess I haven't held up my end of the bargain.   I tried.   I just haven't had the luck I've wanted.   
But she's been doing very well.   That's made me proud.   
   
 Q.   So if you are in the second week here, what do you think that will be like for you?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Well, we've done it before.   It's one thing you can say.   It's not like we haven't done it.   We've done it.   So it will be doing it again.   
   
 Q.   What would that mean to you?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   I want to get to the third week if I can (laughter).   At this point in time, try to do something that's never been done before, I guess.   
Just keep going.   That's pretty much it.  
   
 Q.   A number of players this week are talking about art.   You've taken art classes.   Talk about your approach to art.   Are you more into color or design, favorite artists?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Favorite artist.   I don't know.   Right now, Picasso.   
No, but I think art is in everything, and everything is inspirational.   I get inspired by so many different things.   
My favorite artist, probably Glenn Ligon right now or Walead Beshty.   Then, of course, everybody loves people like Matisse and things like that.   That's easy to love.   
   
 Q.   In traveling the world, your favorite art museum you went to was?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   That's hard.   That's hard to choose.   
I usually like the other museums.   I'm not necessarily the person that wants to go look at a painting.   It's a little static for me.   I like history.   I like the museums about the history of the city.   Like the Museum of London.   Those kind ofs thing intrigue me a little bit more.  
   
 Q.   It's been a while since you made it to the third round of a slam.   I know you want more.   Does this still feel like a good step in the right direction?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Yeah, definitely for me it's definitely a step in the right direction.   The thing that I just have to really work on is being on tour consistently and playing tournaments.   
Even leading up these last few months, I don't feel I played as many matches as I would have liked, as many as my opponents.   The more you play, the more you get used to being down or up or serving things out.   
My whole goal is just to keep playing and stay as healthy as I can.   
   
 Q.   Possibility you might play Kvitova the third round.   
VENUS WILLIAMS:   All of our matches have always been tough.   I know I'll have to get out there and play better than her.   That's really what it boils down to.   The last point, make sure I'm winning it instead of losing it.   
   
 Q.   As someone who has a career in design, what is your opinion of these two weeks of year, they are going predominantly white, do you think it's a nice change, is it boring?   What is your assessment?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   I think it's a nice change.   I think everyone just kind of glows in white.   Obviously not all year, because anything every day is boring.   But during these two weeks, it's nice.  
   
 Q.   What is it in particular you like about Wimbledon when you walk through the door?   What's the one thing you really like?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Yeah, everybody asks me that I think every interview.   
I think what I like about Wimbledon is they're really into the players' and the fans' experiences, especially more and more recognizing the needs of the players, the needs of the fans moving forward, to be progressive, getting with the future.   I really appreciate that.   
Besides the fact, of course, of playing on grass and history, how much Wimbledon does for the fans and the players.  
   
 Q.   If you were granted a wish for another Grand Slam title, would it be here because of your great history here or perhaps the US Open because that's the home country?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Yeah, wishes don't come true.   You have to work at it.   I won't start wishing.   I'll start working, running, hitting some winners.   That will serve me more.   
I would be greedy.   I wouldn't say I want just one.   I want singles, I want doubles, gold medals, and while I'm on tour I'm going to aim for that the best I can.   
   
 Q.   Your hairdo is very West African.   
VENUS WILLIAMS:   I am African‑American.   I think I was born in braids.   When I came out I had braids in my hair already.   
If you grow up as an African‑American, it's kind of part of the culture.   If you have really curly hair it helps because it doesn't tangle.   
I never know what hairstyle I'm going to come out with, honestly.   
   
 Q.   This is very West African.   
VENUS WILLIAMS:   It will be different in two weeks, so I don't know what's going to happen next, but I'm enjoying this one for the moment.   
   
 Q.   What are your thoughts on the decision ahead for LeBron James and his move to opt out this week?   
VENUS WILLIAMS:   I don't even know what's happening with that.   I haven't heard.   And I don't understand those rules either.   
So I guess he's got to do what he's got to do.   I don't know.   
   
 Q.   What would you like to see him do?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   I'd like to see him keep winning, wherever that is.   I'm a South Florida girl.   But I don't know.   I don't know anything about basketball.   Jeez, it's tough.   
   
 Q.   From what you just said, you've said in the past you have your sights on going to Brazil in 2016.   What is important for you about the Olympics and where do you stand right now on Fed Cups?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   I'm not sure how many Fed Cups I need to play.   
   
 Q.   It's three.   
VENUS WILLIAMS:   I don't know.   
But unfortunately this year I missed some Fed Cups.   I really would have loved to have played.   But the circumstances didn't work out, especially having those ties in the U.S., but I couldn't.   
I would love for us, you know, to get a title next year.   
   
 Q.   What is it about the Olympics that you want to have another experience?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Yeah, for me the Olympics, the feeling of playing there, was something I didn't expect the first time in 2000.   It was beyond my dreams.   So that's how I see the Olympics.   For me playing there is beyond anything I dreamed.   
So for a dream to come true that's beyond is unbelievable.   
   
 Q.   With everything you've been through, would it have been easier for you to just say, I'm finished with tennis?   What keeps you going?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Well, I don't like watching it on TV.   I want to be out there.   I'm not about the easy thing.   Life is a challenge.   
For me, when I leave tennis, I want it to be on my own terms.   I want to know that I rose to every challenge.   I want to look back with no regrets.   
So far in my career I can do that.   Everyone messes up.   Everyone chokes.   Everyone gets tight.   Everyone loses matches they should have won.   
But as long as you walked out there and you gave it your all, you can look back with no regrets.   
   
 Q.   You're the oldest player left in the women's draw.   When you look around at the other girls on the tour, do you feel it?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Well, wisdom has served me well.   I've worn my sunscreen so I haven't aged terribly.   My knees are very tight, not saggy.   And the crow's feet have been kept at bay.   So I'll give myself an A+.   
   
 Q.   Some people have suggested that you might at some point transition to just playing doubles.   Is that something you would ever actually consider?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   What do you mean?   Now?   
   
 Q.   No, not now.   At any point down the road.   
VENUS WILLIAMS:   I don't know.   If Serena and I decide we want to do that, as long as I get to play with her.   If I couldn't play with Serena, I probably wouldn't want to, unless there was someone better than her.   That would be tough.   
I don't know.   Obviously at some point we won't be able to play anymore because we might not be as good.   If we decide to continue playing doubles, that could still be an opportunity to get major titles, enjoy the game, still go to the Olympics.  
   
 Q.   Would you consider becoming a coach?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   No.   I love to help people and I love to see young people do well, but I won't want to be out here waiting on a rain delay again.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT