DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 17, 2014
Venus Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 V. WILLIAMS/E. Vesnina
  6‑3, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Good win today, wasn't it, against someone you haven't got a good record against?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Yeah.   The last couple matches were ‑‑well, I mean, at Wimbledon she played so well and it wasn't my day.   Cincy, as well, I had some chances but she was clearly more on her game.  
These days I'm a little more on mine, so I was glad to get a win.  
   
 Q.   What were you pleased most with?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Obviously my serve.   My serve keeps improving pretty much every tournament.   That always helps me.   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   Is it also encouraging both to beat someone you have not beaten before but also to get the matches that you need?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Yeah.   I have to just keep playing, getting matches, and really there is no other way to it, I guess.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel if you get the matches that a lot of other things are in place, adequate fitness and your game is still there?   Do you feel it's just the matches you need now?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Yeah.   I think the more matches I'll play, the better I will feel.   You know, in moments where I'm controlling the match, the better I will feel in moments where things are close.   
I feel like I have just gotten a little rusty sometimes in those areas.   Yeah.   That's pretty much it.   
   
 Q.   At this sort of slightly unusual stage of your career, is there more enjoyment from being out there in the sense that you realize that it won't always be there?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Yeah, it's not going to be there obviously for me and anyone else.   This is definitely a privilege, a privilege that I deserve, you know.   I have done the work to be here, but a privilege.  
I definitely don't take for granted any win anymore.   Not that I used to.   Of course, I earned it.   But now it's even more special every win.  
   
 Q.   What do you expect of yourself?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Well, I expect to try to execute and practice what I do, or in the match what I do in practice.   That's kind of what I expect these days.   Pretty much if anyone can do that, you're on top.   
Easier said than done (smiling).   That's kind of what I'm going for.  
   
 Q.   Why is it easier said than done?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Because in practice you're relaxed.   There is no penalty.   You're more freer than in the matches where your own expectations come upon yourself or your opponent or the conditions and all those things start to be factors.  
   
 Q.   Coming back to where you have done well before and won the tournament, what does that do for you?   You have done it in lots of places, but...   
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Just excited to be here.   You know, it's been a long time, and I just couldn't come, basically.   
So just to have a chance to come is exciting for me.   You know, I feel like out of all of the people in the draw I'm the one that has my eyes widest open.   I'm able to see, you know.   You know, there is maybe a couple other players like Kleybanova who can, you know, maybe has a similar perspective.  
   
 Q.   And you plan to come irrespective of what Serena does, whether she decided to come or not?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Yeah.   I mean, I needed a wildcard, so...   (Smiling.)   I did, I think, maybe request one before she did probably.  
   
 Q.   Would you have played qualifying?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Well, sometimes you've got to do what you have got to do, but I don't need to have played qualifying.   I could have played somewhere else or waited to play, you know, some other tournament later on a different week.  
So right now I don't think qualifying is where my career is.   I don't need to do that.   I have just done a lot already, and qualifying is not what I need to do right now.  
   
 Q.   Have you spoken with Alisa?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Alisa?   Yeah.   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   About your experiences?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   No.   I mean, we're competitors.   I don't think we need to necessarily get into details of this, that, and the other.   We're competitors.   I think we have respect for each other.   
But I have a ton of respect for what she's doing.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT