AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 16, 2013
Venus Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 V. WILLIAMS/A. Cornet
  6‑3, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Did you feel as good out there as you did in your first round?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Yeah, today I don't think I was hitting as many winners as the first round.   But at the end I always felt like I was in control, so that's always a good feeling.   
   
 Q.   Next up is Maria.   You played many times before.   What are you expecting out of this match that might be different from previous matches with her?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   You know, obviously I'm not really expecting anything too different.   Just, you know, high intensity level.   But different, I don't know about that.   
   
 Q.   She won today 6‑Love, 6‑Love.   Do you think you have to play better than you've been playing this week?   How do you feel about that?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   I don't think about things that way.   I play the ball.   There's going to be days when you play great and win, and there's going to be days when you play not as great and you win.   
Whatever day that is, you have to win.   It's not about for me I have to play perfect every match.   I don't have that mentality.   
   
 Q.   You've had some big matches against her.   Any particular matches that stand out to you against her?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   I mean, at this moment, I haven't really thought that hard about it, so I don't know.   Got to get back to you on that one.   
   
 Q.   You both are great champions.   Do you go into the match with a different mentality?   Do you need to psych yourself up a little bit more?   Not a routine third round.   
VENUS WILLIAMS:   I don't think I'm really going into it with a different mentality except really focusing on what I'm doing with the ball.   That's pretty much it.   
I mean, for me, I know I'm not the highest seed, so I realize I'm probably going to have to play someone and someone is going to have to play me.   That's pretty much what it is.  
   
 Q.   Your doubles partner suffered a little injury scare in her first‑round match.   Have you talked to her about staying in the doubles?   
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Yeah, I guess she has to see how she feels.   I don't know how she feels.   She'll see tomorrow.   Hopefully she'll get a win in the singles and then see how she feels.   
That's something that I don't really know.  
   
 Q.   Have you talked to her about the injury today?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Yeah.   I was like, How are you feeling?   She was like, Yeah, I'm good.   You know, obviously I'm not going to give any details in here.   
She's obviously a fighter and she doesn't complain, so...   
She's not looking for any sympathy.   She just wants to hopefully play the singles and doubles, and that's it.  
   
 Q.   At this stage in your career do you define yourself by wins and losses?   If not, what defines success for you?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Oh, wow, that's a good one.   I've been so successful, so for me success is when I go out on the court and execute my game.   That's when I feel successful.   I feel like I've done something.   That's kind of what it's about now.   
   
 Q.   Regardless of the result?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   If I execute my game, the result is good.   But it feels good to play like you practice and the things that you train.   So if I don't do that, then I don't feel as successful.   
For me it's about bring the best out of me, yeah.   
   
 Q.   Do you still feel going up against an opponent like Maria if you bring your best game you will win?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Most people feel if they bring their best game they'll win.   It's about bringing the best game and winning under any circumstances.   
So, like I said, I don't focus on the best game.   I focus on just trying to play my best, no matter if it's the best game or not the best game.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel more embraced by the public and fans than at any time in your career?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   I don't know.   Maybe.   Perhaps.   I don't know.   I think people have always been pretty nice to me.   I try to be nice to people, yeah.   
   
 Q.   Have you gotten any compliments on your dress?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Yeah, I get a lot of compliments on my dress.   
   
 Q.   What do people say?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   They love the color.   I love your dress.   It's a nice style.   Women's players, men's players, people working around.   That's been very satisfying because I work hard on the designs.   I'll spend all day and all night on the designs.   I eat hot fries usually during the design sessions.   
Then the one time that I didn't, I couldn't think of anything, so I ordered some hot fries.   I got there the next day, and, bam, I had the best ideas.   
But since that time I've really had to discontinue that.   I can't eat the hot fries.   I credit all these designs to hot fries.  
   
 Q.   Are they like spicy French fries?  
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Oh, they are so spicy, and I just keep eating 'em and it hurts.   I just pop 'em away.   
It's still vegan because it's somewhat a potato.   It's just very processed, extremely processed.   Probably poisonous (laughter).   
Yeah, I don't know why.   It's just always been part of the design.   When I design, I eat hot fries.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT