WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 15, 2012
Venus Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







V. WILLIAMS/C. Scheepers
  2‑6, 6‑3, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Talk about the match and the first set.   Didn't look like you were moving well.   So what happened in the first set that transitioned better for you in the second set?
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Yeah, so many errors.   She's one of those players that puts a lot of balls in the court, makes you play a lot of shots.
You know, I wasn't getting them in the court.   It was good to turn it around.

Q.   Were you not feeling well as far as your first serve percentage looked pretty low today?
VENUS WILLIAMS:   It was in the 50s.   I always aim for the 60s.   You know, the 50s is a little low, makes life easier, but I think, you know, she was returning them pretty well, as well.

Q.   Even though you made a couple of double faults, your second serve seemed to be holding pretty well, the second serve ace.   Have you been practicing a little bit on the kick serve?
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Yeah, just trying to go for it actually.   You know, gonna make a few errors off the serve, but just gotta keep going, you know.

Q.   After the Olympics, which was a best‑of‑three tournament, an important tournament in both the men and the women, there was a lot of discussion about maybe if the men could play best‑of‑three at Grand Slams also someday.   With the increasing physicality of the game now and, you know, a lot of talk about equality or whatever, what would you think about that change happening someday?
VENUS WILLIAMS:   I think, I mean, from a scheduling standpoint it would be great.   You get more matches on the top courts then, you know, you're able to compete in more events.   And personally it's like a relief.   You know you're not waiting for five sets on the court. 
Like I actually was able to get on the courts a lot of the times, so that was helpful.   I think it would be actually a good move.

Q.   When you talk about the courts, you mean like Centre Court at Wimbledon for example?
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Yeah, well Centre Court, you know, you're able to have four matches on the court, which is a great thing, I think, to have a full session.   I mean, it did start an hour earlier, but I think it was good.

Q.   You're known to wear bling on the court.   There is a ring you used to wear all the time, the big round ring.   What happened with that and did you replace it?   What's the ring you have now?
VENUS WILLIAMS:   The ring I have now is actually my last shopping purchase.   It's called a success ring, actually.   But my match ring, I do have it here with me.   I always have it.   I haven't been wearing it as much lately. 
I have been wearing it since '03 I think, so it's been a long time.   Actually 2002.   I think it's been a very long time.   Just switching things up a little bit.

Q.   How did you feel about your movement specifically today?
VENUS WILLIAMS:   You know, I don't think I was at my quickest today, but still slow for me.   I still get to cover a lot of court.   That's the good part.
I'm actually feeling good going into tomorrow's match.

Q.   Professional photographers take lots of pictures of you.   How do you feel about the pictures when you look at them?   Like them?   Don't like them?   Don't care?
VENUS WILLIAMS:   I like looking at the pictures.   I critique myself.   It's good stuff.   More than anything it's fun to see the pictures over the years.   It's like seeing your life.   It's a beautiful thing.

Q.   You go back and watch some of your old matches like your Grand Slam finals when you have won?   Do you ever go back and watch the old tapes?
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Yes, I do.   I'm like, Oh, my God, I'm so much better now.   (Laughter.)
Which is a good thing.   So I was tough then, but I like to think I'm better now.   To be honest, everyone is better now.   So of course I have to be better, as well.

Q.   Back to the picture thing, do you feel pretty comfortable?   You have been doing photo shoots for a long time.   Do you feel pretty comfortable in front of the camera now?   Is it different from being photographed on the tennis court?
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Yeah, I'm pretty comfortable.   If I had a choice I'd go to practice over a photo shoot.   I'm not a model.   I'm an athlete, you know, a fighting athlete on the court.   That's my main thing.

Q.   How do you feel about your game now that you've played a couple matches on hard court going into the US Open?
VENUS WILLIAMS:   It was a tough match today.   I wasn't necessarily at my best, but I won anyway.   Honestly, that makes me feel good and more relaxed and more comfortable going into tomorrow's match, because I faced some tough players and tough moments and came through.

Q.   How will you spend your evening now?   Relaxing?
VENUS WILLIAMS:   Just rest, rest, and rest.

Q.   One more photo question:   Do you ever feel like you hear the cameras clicking or ever feel like you get distracted by the photographers when you're serving, anything like that?
VENUS WILLIAMS:   No, I don't hear anything when I'm playing.   Zip, zero.   I mean, of course I hear some things, you know, in my mind.   I don't hear any of that stuff.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT