MIAMI OPEN PRESENTED BY ITAú
March 24, 2019
Venus Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
V. WILLIAMS/D. Kasatkina   
6-3, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  You and Dasha played so many tough matches in the past.  What was the key?  What did you take from the past matches into today?  
VENUS WILLIAMS: I think in a lot of the matches we played before, she was just on top of her game, couldn't miss.  I think today I was just able to control the points.  Got a few more errors.   
I'm always at my best when I'm playing aggressive.  Just got to execute that today.   
 Q.  You broke her serve every time today.  
VENUS WILLIAMS: Yeah.   
 Q.  Did you get a good sense of her serve?  
VENUS WILLIAMS: Honestly, I didn't realize that until after the match looking at the stats.  I've never had a match before like that in my life.  There's always a time for a first.   
I'm returning really well.  If I'm getting a look at the serve, it's going well for me.  So I want to return that well tomorrow, too.   
 Q.  She hit the ball between her legs at some point in the first set.  Do you like that kind of game style?  
VENUS WILLIAMS: It was fun.  Honestly, it was great.  I think the crowd loved it.  I loved it.  I can't do that.  She's got something in her game that I don't have.  It was fun to see.   
 Q.  What were you thinking about in some of the moments where you were smiling?  
VENUS WILLIAMS: I never smile on the court.  This week I've smiled a lot.  I think there's just a lot to smile for.  That's all I can say, yup.   
 Q.  Can you compare the two venues for better or worse?  
VENUS WILLIAMS: Well, I think there's a little bit of different crowd here.  It's great actually.  The atmosphere out there on grandstand, something I've never played in before.  The first time I played out there, I was like, I think I hear the feet stomping.  I was like, That's a thing.  I never really played in front of a crowd like that.   
It's just great.  I'm not sure exactly what to call it, but it's just an unbelievably enthusiastic sort of fan base that has come out.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
VENUS WILLIAMS: I don't even know what.  I haven't thought about it till you asked me.  I'll probably have to give it a little thought.  I love it.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
VENUS WILLIAMS: I have a lot of history there obviously.  I'm up for change.  I'm not afraid of change.   
 Q.  Seems like in the last few weeks you're having more fun on the tennis court.  Does that seem to be the case?  
VENUS WILLIAMS: Well, I'm always having fun.  I just have never smiled this much on the court.  Even some points I lose...  I don't know.  I don't know.  We'll see if I do that tomorrow.  I don't know.   
 Q.  You play Simona next.  Thoughts on her as an opponent, what you make of her evolution as a player?  
VENUS WILLIAMS: She always plays flawless tennis against me, so I have to be ready for that.  Every match is a different match, opportunity to play better and to learn.  I know each point will be an opportunity for me to play better and learn.  That's how I look at it.   
I'm looking forward to tomorrow.   
 Q.  Serena is a pretty big Golden Girls fan.  Is that a show you watch or one that you've gone back to over the years?  
VENUS WILLIAMS: The whole family has seen every episode of the Golden Girls.   
 Q.  Do you have a favorite?  
VENUS WILLIAMS: It's too tough, yeah.  I'll have to think about that.  We know every episode.  It's hard to choose.  It's just hard to choose.   
 Q.  A favorite character, girl?  
VENUS WILLIAMS: I'm definitely Dorothy.  I can say that I'm a Dorothy.  Favorite character?  They're all incredible, to be honest.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT