SONY ERICSSON CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 1, 2009
Venus Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. WILLIAMS/V. Williams
  6-2, 7-6 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Venus, please.   
  
  Q. Can you describe what you feel on the court against Serena?   
 VENUS WILLIAMS: Yeah, you know, what happened? Well, let's see. The first set, you know, I lost serve a couple times too many. Had kind of a slow start.   
 You know, in the second, I think obviously I held serve better, but I don't think I returned as well as I wanted to. Sometimes I made her service game too easy with errors off the return. You know, I didn't put enough pressure I think on the service game.   
  
  Q. There were a lot of people on the court supporting you today. What did you think of the crowds in Doha? Were you happy?  
 VENUS WILLIAMS: Yes, totally excellent. Everyone was into the match. It was great because we were actually playing at like 6:00 instead of 10:00, so people could be there to enjoy it, be enthusiastic. It was great.   
  
  Q. What was the level of your fitness out there? Were you struggling with leg problems?   
 VENUS WILLIAMS: You know, I think it's been a great week. I gave a hundred percent out there. I had a great time, especially the points that I was winning.   
 You know, it's the end of the season. I have no complaints.  
  
  Q. But were you injured?   
 VENUS WILLIAMS: You know, like I said, I gave a hundred percent all the time. So I felt I was doing my best out there.   
  
  Q. But were you injured?   
 VENUS WILLIAMS: I'm already done with that question.   
  
  Q. Do you think Serena played a very good match or a normal match?  
 VENUS WILLIAMS: Serena, I think she played a really good match. She didn't make too many errors, you know, kept trying to put the pressure on. That's a smart way to play.   
  
  Q. You obviously played a pretty tough three-setter yesterday, whereas Serena had a shorter match when Wozniacki retired. Do you think that was a factor at all?   
 VENUS WILLIAMS: I mean, these kind of things, whatever happens the day before, you have to be ready the next day. I've been playing for a long time. I'm not going to be the one to say, Oh, I played forever yesterday. You have to show up and play no matter what. That really has nothing to do with it.   
  
  Q. The players' mandatory commitment this year is reduced, yet there seem to be just as many leading players carrying injuries. Have you had any time to think about what you will need to do to get through 2010 without injury?  
 VENUS WILLIAMS: It's hard for me to follow everyone else's injuries, so I don't really know what's going on with them. The first part of the question is tough for me to answer 'cause I really don't know what the other players are doing, going through, if they played or pulled out.   
  
  Q. Four failed to finish the tournament.   
 VENUS WILLIAMS: Here?   
  
  Q. Yes.   
 VENUS WILLIAMS: Yeah, I mean, I guess last year there was two who didn't finish. It's hard these days.   
 But, you know, as for me, 2010 I hope will be completely healthy. Some things you can't avoid. Hopefully some luck will be with me and bad luck with someone else (smiling).   
  
  Q. Is it difficult for you when Serena takes your title, like in Wimbledon or here?  
 VENUS WILLIAMS: Yeah, last year I was able to win those two titles, and it felt great. You know, obviously this year I came close to winning both, but didn't work. So I'll just continue to learn from everything and, more than anything, just continue to enjoy what I do.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT