U.S. OPEN
September 4, 2009
Venus Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







V. WILLIAMS/M. Rybarikova
  6-2, 7-5

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. How did that feel tonight?
 VENUS WILLIAMS: Yeah, she played really well. She definitely picked up her game in the second set. You know, got to expect that from anyone on tour. 
 And, you know, it was just nice to have a break at the end.

 Q. Can you talk about the one point. She had a breakpoint, it was 3-3. You finished with a volley. Seemed to be a turning point in the match. 
 VENUS WILLIAMS: Oh, yeah, that was a great point. Points like that, especially at this tournament, they're really exhilarating. Yeah, definitely I think a lot of the momentum started to go my way after that. It was a good point. 

 Q. How about your next match with Kim, can you talk about that?
 VENUS WILLIAMS: Yeah, she's been playing really well and I've been playing really well, also. Obviously, it's great to see her back, but I want to advance to the next round. 

 Q. Physically now do you feel, the knee?
 VENUS WILLIAMS: Yeah, you know, I'm okay. Thanks. 

 Q. It's been four years since you played Kim. How remarkable do you think it is for a tour player to be away for so long and to find themselves here?
 VENUS WILLIAMS: Well, she's obviously a very determined woman and very talented. Put those two together and you get great tennis. 
 You know, she's living her dream on and off the court. That's what is the best part about it all. 

 Q. How much are you looking forward to seeing her out there?
 VENUS WILLIAMS: For me it's just about preparing my game for this round, really going out and executing my game, regardless of who's across the net. Obviously, it's great that she's playing well. 
 But for me as a competitor, I want to play good tennis off my side. 

 Q. When you've played a player for ten years, one could say you can draw upon experience of previous matches. Having been four years, can you draw upon that at all?
 VENUS WILLIAMS: You know, I don't know. I don't think about it as hard as you do. I don't know if I have an answer for that yet. Sorry. 

 Q. You had the goofy match here, you were mystified at what happened in that match. Do you recall that?
 VENUS WILLIAMS: What? 

 Q. The match you played against her here. She beat you. 
 VENUS WILLIAMS: That was like four years ago, though. 

 Q. You couldn't figure out what happened. You don't remember that?
 VENUS WILLIAMS: Yeah, I was too hard on myself during the match. I was winning. I was thinking, You're not playing great. I lost. After that I learned it doesn't matter how you play, as long as you get the ball on the court. So it was a powerful lesson.

 Q. Can you imagine what the little girl Venus just starting out would think of Venus Williams today?
 VENUS WILLIAMS: That girl would think, Oh, yeah, I can beat her. 

 Q. So she was that cocky, that strong?
 VENUS WILLIAMS: She wasn't cocky. She just believed in herself. 

 Q. Do you know what Venus Williams has in common with Cleopatra?
 VENUS WILLIAMS: Not at all.

 Q. You both made Oprah magazine's power list of most powerful women. 
 VENUS WILLIAMS: Fantastic. 

 Q. Make you feel good? 
 VENUS WILLIAMS: Yeah. Who doesn't love Oprah. 

 Q. How about Cleopatra?
 VENUS WILLIAMS: She's a legend.

 Q. Were you surprised at all at sort of how quickly Clijsters has returned? She's had big wins over top players coming in here. Now here she is against you in the fourth round at a Grand Slam. 
 VENUS WILLIAMS: Uhm, you know, obviously she's playing well. You know, that's great. I really haven't dwelled a lot on her results, to be honest, so... 

 Q. I know you don't talk about injuries. We're not going to ask you to diagnose your knee. How were you feeling physically when the match started and as it moved along?
 VENUS WILLIAMS: Yeah, you know, I had some challenging moments in the match, but I always run after the ball and try to hit it in the court. It's even better if I can hit a winner, so... 
 You know, I was very happy with the win today. 

 Q. Three top-seeded women have gone out to this point, and no men. Do you have any explanation for why the women seeds have had a tough time this week?
 VENUS WILLIAMS: Nothing's a given. Everyone comes out. They play well. If you aren't the better player that day, you're going home. That's just how it is. 

 Q. Do you see it as a testament to the depth on the women's tour? Is that what you mean by that?
 VENUS WILLIAMS: Yeah, I think there is depth on the women's tour, definitely. 

 Q. I came across a quote of yours from when you were 14 saying you hoped to retire from tennis at 25 and become a paleontologist. 
 VENUS WILLIAMS: That sounds really boring. I'm glad I wisened [sic] up. Don't need to be playing around in sand at 30 years old. Doesn't make sense. Neither do I want to go to school for eight years right now, so... 

 Q. When you see someone like Sanchez-Martinez against your sister, does it ever make you want to serve and volley more?
 VENUS WILLIAMS: Well, I serve and volley in doubles. I do come to the net. When I come to the net, I hit some good volleys (smiling). Everybody's got their method, I guess. 

 Q. The two great marquee stars tonight on Arthur Ashe Stadium, yourself and Rafa, both have had issues with knees. What do you think that says?
 VENUS WILLIAMS: That we had issues with knees. 

 Q. Beyond that, do you think the game is really tough on legs and knees?
 VENUS WILLIAMS: You know, I can't make a correlation between us because I don't really know what his problem is. There's a lot of different reasons for injury. You know, you can't put it just on one thing. 

 Q. Are you going to have to wait to be able to be assured you're playing doubles, or are you pretty confident?
 VENUS WILLIAMS: I really want to play. I really want to play. I love it, so... 

 Q. Is that decision going to be up to you or your coaches?
 VENUS WILLIAMS: Oh, it's up to me. Uh-huh, I make the plays. Wildcat offense, yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT