INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA (WOMEN)
May 4, 2009
Venus Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







V. WILLIAMS/L. Safarova
  6-2, 4-6, 6-2

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. You happy with the way you started the tournament?
 VENUS WILLIAMS: I was really happy with the first set, and, you know, with most of the third. You know, I just I want to hit balls, so, you know, in a way it's not too bad to go three sets. 
 I do want to hit a lot of balls and keep hitting balls, so that's important. 

 Q. You started very, very, very well, and then you encountered problems in the second set. What do you put that down to? 
 VENUS WILLIAMS: I just didn't get that break back, and she played some good shots. She played strong and she, you know, is a talented player, so I have to give her credit, also. 

 Q. You said you were happy about the amount of balls you hit. Do you think it's good in a way to start off with a tough match to sort of get you into the groove? You've sort of not played the first round and gone straight into the second round. 
 VENUS WILLIAMS: Yeah. You know, because the match, the points were so short -- I mean, we both played aggressive, especially when she's playing me. She's just going for every shot, for the lines. 
 So there's not really an opportunity to hit balls and have rallies, because she's constantly trying to just take the first shot and hopefully play aggressive and beat me.
 So I don't really have a chance to like just hit rallies and things like that. I do want to hit a lot of balls. 

 Q. So in that sense, you don't think it was good preparation in the fact that she wasn't a typical sort of player you're going to have on clay?
 VENUS WILLIAMS: Nothing is typical. You just got to play. But I actually can't even remember your question. Sorry. 

 Q. Because she's an unusual sort of player to be facing on clay with the short rallies, whereas you usually expect players to be more patient on clay. 
 VENUS WILLIAMS: Yeah, it's a little more unusual, but I'm up for any challenge. I was okay with the match being a little longer. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT