ROLAND GARROS
September 27, 2020
Venus Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  A. SCHMIEDLOVA/V. Williams
 6-4, 6-4
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. Can you just tell us about the match today.
 VENUS WILLIAMS:   Yeah.  You know, she played really, really well, I thought.  Not a lot of errors.  You know, even on my really good shots she had a lot of amazing replies that just kind of came out of nowhere.  Give her credit to playing an amazing match.
 Q. It looks like since the resumption it's been difficult for you in terms of getting match wins.  Why do you think that has been?
 VENUS WILLIAMS:   Because I didn't win the last point at the end?  Gotta win the last point.
 Q. Is it as tough now to brush off losses compared to five, seven years ago?  Or is it just as tough?
 VENUS WILLIAMS:   That's never a goal, obviously, so it's really just about going back and re-evaluating and moving on as quick as possible.
 It's been a very long year of quarantine.  Now I'll get to rest.  So I'm looking forward to that (smiling).
 Q. Do you think will you play again this year, do you think?
 VENUS WILLIAMS:   No.  There is nowhere to go.  And even if there was, I'm done, anyway, so...
 Q. Is that at the moment your feeling is you'll be back next year?
 VENUS WILLIAMS:   Yeah, definitely.
 Q. You have played here at Roland Garros many times.  I'm just wondering if you could compare what it's like this year, the time of year, the weather, the stands being mostly empty.  How does this one compare to all the other times you have played at Roland Garros?
 VENUS WILLIAMS:   Yeah, there were a handful of people there, and I was super grateful for them.  It was fantastic, really.  At this point, grateful for any fans that are here.  Miss them desperately.
 You know, most years it's pretty cold and rainy here, whether it's in May or right now.  Obviously it was very cold and rainy and the courts are playing much differently than usual.  Those are the conditions right now for everyone, so it should be interesting.
 Q. Could you explain to somebody who is not there what you mean by how the courts are playing differently.
 VENUS WILLIAMS:   You know, a lot of tricky bounces.  Balls not coming up.  The balls are different this year, too.  So definitely a lot different than the preparation, for example, in Rome or even the days leading up.
 Q. I was wondering with your autoimmune disease, you're at a higher risk with being around people.  What has it been like for you in the hotel?  Have you felt any more trepidation than you would normally?
 VENUS WILLIAMS:   I think at this point I have accepted that anyone can get it at any time, so I try my best not to.
 I think in the beginning I was definitely a lot more nervous, but now I'm a little more accepting that it could happen and these are the risks you take when you leave your home.
 Q. Just a general question about 2020.  It's obviously been a very challenging year for everybody.  I wonder for you what has been the most difficult thing about this year?
 VENUS WILLIAMS:   Probably being separated from people you love probably is the challenging part.  Obviously not being able to be on tour is also a challenge and not having the fans is pretty rough, also.
 Q. Have you had a chance to think about what your year looks like from here?  Where do you go from here?  Not a lot of women's tournaments left.
 VENUS WILLIAMS:   I'm going home from here.  I'm done.  If there is somewhere to play, I won't be there.
 Q. Have you looked ahead to 2021?
 VENUS WILLIAMS:   Not yet (smiling).  Not yet.  I just stepped off the court.  So even though it hasn't been a ton of tournaments, it's still been a very long year.  So, yeah, I'm not looking forward yet.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT