U.S. OPEN
August 31, 2018
Venus Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. WILLIAMS/V. Williams   
6-1, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  In terms of your matches with your sister, what was the most dramatic or emotionally fulfilling for you?  
VENUS WILLIAMS: I mean, we've had a lot of great matches, a lot of long matches.  I guess I'd have to give that some thought honestly.  Like I always say, I'm a forward-looking person.  I don't dwell on the past and contemplate it all day and night.  Most people are just looking forward.   
 Q.  Does one pop in your mind?  
VENUS WILLIAMS: Not yet.   
 Q.  Serena said she thought that was the best match she'd played since her comeback.  Would that be your assessment as well?  
VENUS WILLIAMS: Yeah, I think it's the best match she's ever played against me.  I don't think I did a lot wrong.  But she just did everything right.  Obviously that level is definitely where she's going to want to stay during this whole tournament.   
 Q.  Given all of what you both have accomplished, how much different is it playing against each other as pros versus when you were kids?  
VENUS WILLIAMS: I don't know.   
 Q.  No different dynamic at all because of what you have accomplished, how much you root for each other?  
VENUS WILLIAMS: No, I mean, I really don't think about this stuff.  You have to understand that.   
 Q.  What do you think of when you go back to the hotel tonight?  Will you just completely put this in the back of your mind?  
VENUS WILLIAMS: Yeah, I'm going to rest.  I mean, she played so well, I never got to really even touch any balls.  When your opponent plays like that, it's not really anything to be upset about.  She just played much better than -- the only thing I maybe could have done was put more first serves in.  Even they she returned the first serve really well.  Any shot that I hit great, she hit a greater shot.  Not a lot I can do.   
Tonight I'll just go back and enjoy the rest of the evening.   
 Q.  People talked early on about the draw being so tough.  This was a big stumbling block for either of you.  Can you see any major obstacles in her way?  
VENUS WILLIAMS: I mean, every match you play, you have to win.  She didn't win that match tonight because I just rolled over.  She played untouchable tennis.  Whoever she plays, she's going to earn it.  It's not like people don't try.  People will try against her.  I know people are going to keep that up.   
 Q.  Did you expect her to play as well as she played today?  Obviously, she didn't get to play a ton of matches.  Coming into the tournament in not such a great form.  
VENUS WILLIAMS: I mean, I think I would disagree with the not great form.  She just got to the Wimbledon final.  I'm not sure where you've been.  She's been in incredible form coming into the tournament.   
Obviously I hope she doesn't play that well against me every time because I don't think anyone has a chance.  Just one of those days where, you know, I didn't get a chance to control the points ever.   
 Q.  John McEnroe said what you and your sister have done is the best sports story in history.  What is your sense of what kind impact the two of you have had?  
VENUS WILLIAMS: Yeah, I mean, that's obviously a great compliment.  I don't know that -- like I said, we don't sit around and reflect.  That's not how you get out here and win these matches, is reflecting and looking back.  You work hard, look forward.  As soon as you beat one person, there's another one standing in front of you.   
At the moment now our main focus is winning these matches.  Perhaps when it's all said and done there will be a time to reflect.  We're in too deep right now.   
 Q.  Do you practice ever with Serena these days?  
VENUS WILLIAMS: She has a much different schedule than I do these days (smiling).   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT