XXIX OLYMPIC GAMES
August 12, 2008
Venus Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  V. WILLIAMS/I. Benesova
6-1, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. You won almost every point on your first serve. You did have a few double faults. How did you feel you served overall?
 VENUS WILLIAMS: You know, I think my serve was good. I definitely would have wanted a few more first serves in. But I felt like any time that I needed to serve well, I did, if I was down Love-30, or a 30-All point. 
 I'm not sure that I faced any breakpoints today, so that's really good. That's good for me going on in the later rounds, that I'm tough on my serve. 

 Q. I noticed you were fanning yourself when you came in. How did you find the heat out there today?
 VENUS WILLIAMS: No, I just haven't cooled off yet. I'm still sweating. 

 Q. Pretty hot out there today?
 VENUS WILLIAMS: It could be hotter. I was grateful for the conditions today, because it could be warmer. I was okay. 

 Q. I don't know if you're thinking about it, but Serena has won her game here, too. Are you looking for a family final at the Olympics?
 VENUS WILLIAMS: I mean, that would be fantastic. Obviously, it's a long ways away, but the third round makes it closer. I'm really excited for both of us to be playing really well for the U.S., then trying to play great doubles today, too. 

 Q. Can you talk about the whole Olympic setup, the stadium. How does this compare to some of the other major events you've played around the world?
 VENUS WILLIAMS: This is fantastic. It's huge. It's actually a really beautiful center. I think it's right up there with -- second to the Grand Slam facilities, I think this is the next best one. 

 Q. Wimbledon, US Open facility?
 VENUS WILLIAMS: Like I said, second to the Grand Slams. I think this is second to the slams. 

 Q. The Olympics ever reach the actual level of the other Grand Slams?
 VENUS WILLIAMS: I said the venue was -- but I think for me, the Olympics is on the same level as a slam. 

 Q. The other day Serena was asked to compare Grand Slams to the Olympics. She said you grow up working to win Grand Slams, but her Olympic gold medal is what she's proudest to show people. What are your thoughts?
 VENUS WILLIAMS: Definitely. I mean, I grew up watching the Olympics. And my dad really loved the Olympics. The first time I played in Sydney was because he loved the Olympics so much, and that's why I played. After that, I began to love the Olympics because of that. Obviously, some great results there. 
 So I think for me, it's just -- I would say definitely. I never show anyone my medals unless they ask. I don't want to boast. The ultimate boast is Olympic gold. I want to be modest. If someone asks and they come to my house, I'll show them. Of course, I show them my whole pin collection first. They have to look at the whole pin collection, then I'll show them my medals. 

 Q. The mental setup, the mental orientation prior to a Grand Slam or the Olympics, is it the same, the mental preparation? 
 VENUS WILLIAMS: I think that the mental preparation, it's very much the same. I think the Olympics is a high-pressure situation for most athletes, including tennis players. So I think it's pretty much on the same level because I think people even play harder because they're playing for their country. So it's a whole different kind of pride that goes into the competition. 

 Q. Did you find any change in the quality of the air after the rains or is the pollution level the same?
 VENUS WILLIAMS: I think the conditions are much easier after the rain. I'm no weather expert, so I don't know exactly what has happened. But it's definitely cooler, and I think that's huge. Because before that, the air, it was just so hot. It was tough out there. 
 But hopefully it will stay like this. 

 Q. Can you talk about Chinese hospitality and your own experiences meeting other athletes from other sports? 
 VENUS WILLIAMS: I think the Chinese are just extremely polite, even in the worst situations. No matter what, it's always a smile and thank you. So I think that's really an amazing quality. 
 I've got to meet a few athletes. Unfortunately, it's just been a lot of tennis so far. Just been at the site all day every day. Hopefully maybe I'll get a chance to go over to the village. 

 Q. After the first two victories, are you getting more confidence, mentally stronger for the next challenge that you know could be stronger for you?
 VENUS WILLIAMS: Oh, absolutely. I definitely feel more confident with every match that passes. I mean, that's what winning does. So it's normal. And I'm looking forward to whoever comes, and to play well, and just go get ready for the doubles now. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT