WIMBLEDON
July 5, 2008
Serena Williams
Venus Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   SUE BARKER: Serena, so sorry for you. But big sister was a bit good today, wasn't she?   
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, she was a little better today, so... It didn't work out as I planned.   
  
 SUE BARKER: But it's a great sort of celebration for the Williams family, isn't it, today?   
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, it's definitely a great celebration. I would like to thank my God Jehovah for allowing me to be out here today. So we're really happy.   
  
 SUE BARKER: And, you know, this year you've had sort of little ups and downs. You really proved to yourself that you're on the way right back up to the top?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Yeah, I've been working really hard and I'm just really fighting for everything. And I'm so happy that at least one of us was able to win.   
 Venus played great this year. You know, but we're just glad to be in the finals again. We hope for it to keep happening.  
  
 SUE BARKER: And you played great tennis considering the conditions. It wasn't easy out there, was it?  
 SERENA WILLIAMS: It was so not easy. Every time I tried to hit a shot, the wind would blow it, and it was tough.   
 But, you know, I tried.   
  
SUE BARKER: Well, it was a terrific final. Well done. We'll see you next year.   
 SERENA WILLIAMS: Thank you.   
  
 SUE BARKER: Venus, congratulations to you. Fantastic. You played so well today.   
 VENUS WILLIAMS: Thank you so much. I have to first of all say great match to Serena. I mean, I can't believe that it's five. But when you're in the final against Serena Williams, five seems so far away from that first point.   
 So, I mean, she played so awesome, it was really a task to beat her.   
  
 SUE BARKER: You were the best two players in this tournament. And, as you say, you've won five now. I mean, you stand alongside some of those that are watching here in the crowd, like Martina Navratilova, Billie Jean King, one of the all-time greats here at Wimbledon.   
 VENUS WILLIAMS: Of course, some of my favorites. Billie, you know I love you. But, I mean, it's unbelievable, especially with some of the injuries or a lot of the injuries I've had to go through, it's so rewarding to perform here and to know that every time I come back that I have the ultimate chance to play well and make history.   
  
 SUE BARKER: You love this place, don't you?   
 VENUS WILLIAMS: I do. I do. And I have to say unbelievable thanks to my sisters, Isha and Lynn. You guys are so supportive. And also thanks to my sparring partner Dave. He's really helped me stay positive when I made mistakes out on the court. And, of course, I love you, mom, always. That's my mom.   
  
 SUE BARKER: How difficult was it emotionally out there when you win to sort of celebrate, but sort of not wanting to make Serena feel bad?   
 VENUS WILLIAMS: I known, I mean, my first job is big sister, so... I take that very seriously. So, of course, I mean, my dad was really proud. He went home after we both got to the finals. He's at home watching. He's like, My job's done. Good luck to both of you.   
  
 SUE BARKER: It was a great job he did as well. And you mention your mom there. They cut to her a few times during the match and I felt so sorry for her because she obviously didn't know how to react, happy for one, sad for the other.   
 VENUS WILLIAMS: I know. It's hard for all of 'em. I like to think that they want me to win (laughter).   
  
 SUE BARKER: Anyway, congratulations. Of course, you're going to be back here again for a doubles final. So maybe another Wimbledon trophy.   
 VENUS WILLIAMS: I hope so. Serena deserves a win, so I'm really going to try even harder for that. Thanks.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT