SONY ERICSSON OPEN
March 31, 2008
Venus Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Not a bad day at the office. How do you think you played today?
 VENUS WILLIAMS: I think I played some good tennis and aggressive when I needed to, and a lot of really good service games.
 So I played really good against a really good opponent.

 Q. What was your impression of her, Venus?
 VENUS WILLIAMS: I've played her a few times. She plays good defense, volleys well, tries to do the right thing, mixes it up. She's definitely got a good variety in her game. That's something a lot of players don't have.

 Q. Gives you an advantage coming here, having not been in Indian Wells and being so climatized to the particular conditions here. 
 VENUS WILLIAMS: I mean, it's just starting to get warm. It hasn't been windy like it normally is. We've been pretty lucky with the rain so far. 
 I guess anything can happen with the weather here, but I live in Florida, so I'm used to it, I guess.

 Q. Let's talk about attendance at Indian Wells becoming mandatory next year and possible penalties. Is there any penalty stiff enough that would actually make you change your mind about going back there again?
 VENUS WILLIAMS: Well, I think just in general, the road map is a positive thing, and it's positive for women's tennis. I've been on board for that and it's been in planning for a while, so I think the road map is positive.

 Q. Caroline is only 17. What would you guide her on, focus her on, to take the next step?
 VENUS WILLIAMS: I think she's doing fine. I think she's progressing rapidly. I think she's on the right track. She's playing well. I think she's doing fine.

 Q. So you noticed an improvement since last time you met her?
 VENUS WILLIAMS: I think she's just trying to get stronger, just like everyone else, and that's the right thing to do: Get stronger and play better. I think she's doing that.

 Q. Are you playing well enough to win three more matches here now, or do you need to take another step up, try to take it to another level?
 VENUS WILLIAMS: I'm always trying to take it to another level, regardless. If I'm playing on cloud 9 I'm trying to get to cloud 10 and actually cloud 11. I definitely feel like I'm playing well. I just have to keep playing well. Simply said (laughter.) 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT