U.S. OPEN
September 7, 2007
Venus Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions. 

 Q.  Are you okay?  What happened there in the second set where you had to have the trainer out? 
 VENUS WILLIAMS:  Uhm, you know, I'm okay.  I just was feeling dizzy, a little sick to the stomach.  Was just having some energy problems. 
 I'm not really sure what's wrong with me.  But, you know, credit to her for playing well. 

 Q.  Did they give you something for it? 
 VENUS WILLIAMS:  Normally when you get hurt or sick in a match there's nothing that can be done.  You have to just get through it.  I did my best. 

 Q.  Were you feeling that way at the beginning of the match?  You took a quick bathroom break before the match actually started.  Were you already feeling a little sick? 
 VENUS WILLIAMS:  No.  I just had to have a bathroom break because I was really trying to stay hydrated throughout the whole tournament. 
 But, yeah, I definitely was having some problems.  You know, she played well. 

 Q.  Probably just the heat today? 
 VENUS WILLIAMS:  No, it's not the heat.  It's nothing compared to Florida where I was training.  And by the time I got on the court it was shady. 

 Q.  Is it like a stomach virus? 
 VENUS WILLIAMS:  I'm not sure what's wrong.  I don't know.  I can't -- I don't know. 

 Q.  On the court how did it affect you?  Seemed you were tired. 
 VENUS WILLIAMS:  Tired.  You know, at my height I really have to adjust.  Like when I had that 40-Love game, you know, I have a short ball, I'm tall, my arms are long, I have to adjust. 
 I'm just trying to push and tell myself, Fight, push, push, push.  Just regroup every point and try to push through it. 
 But it's not easy. 

 Q.  I know you have not played Justine for three and a half years.  You said you'd been following her.  Is this the best level you've seen her play? 
 VENUS WILLIAMS:  She always plays well, so...  Whether it's today or any other day, she always plays a solid game.  Definitely credit to her. 

 Q.  Is it unfortunate the two best players had to meet in the semifinals instead of the final here? 
 VENUS WILLIAMS:  It is what it is.  I don't see any unfortunate circumstances in anything in life.  I just feel fortunate to be here.  Wasn't the case last year.  I count all my blessings. 

 Q.  When you broke her back at 3-5, did you think you might be able to turn it around at that point? 
 VENUS WILLIAMS:  Always.  Definitely always.  I tried my best today.  I'm very disappointed, obviously.  I don't feel the way I would feel if I had just played awfully and given it away. 
 I just feel like I was fighting some circumstances that I couldn't conquer.  This is sports. 

 Q.  Your volleying today.  Considering the quality of your opponent, when have you volleyed this well? 
 VENUS WILLIAMS:  Well, thank you.  I don't know.  I just tried to get up there and make the point happen.  Volley, overhead, whatever it takes. 

 Q.  What is your goal in tennis now? 
 VENUS WILLIAMS:  I think my goal is just to feel better and to get ready to play again.  I'm supposed to play in a couple weeks in Asia. 
 Of course, always to be the champion of every tournament I play (smiling). 

 Q.  Were you feeling like this at all in the last match? 
 VENUS WILLIAMS:  Yeah (laughter). 

 Q.  Have you ever felt this way?  Do you remember ever feeling this way before? 
 VENUS WILLIAMS:  Yeah.  San Diego. 

 Q.  Yeah? 
 VENUS WILLIAMS:  Yeah. 

 Q.  So is it sort of a recurring thing this summer? 
 VENUS WILLIAMS:  I'm not sure what's wrong, but I'll figure it out. 
 You know, just throughout the tournament, just try to keep my points short.  It was definitely a challenge, of course, against Jankovic, and a challenge today. 
 But, you know, I did my best, and I wish the players the best of luck in the final. 

 Q.  This illness, do you think it's something you need a full workup on or is it just an isolated thing? 
 VENUS WILLIAMS:  I definitely know what part of it is.  I got sick a little bit in the first week.  I'm not sure what's happening right now.  But I'm just looking forward to getting healthy and then I can play lots and lots and lots and lots of long points. 

 Q.  Did Serena tell you how to play after her quarterfinals? 
 VENUS WILLIAMS:  She just told me I could do it.  I mean, Serena was my opponent in the draw, too.  I didn't tell her how I was feeling (laughter).  I never tell. 
 I mean, I think she was having something and she didn't tell me, and I found out like through someone else that she was having problems.  We love each other, but we're competing.  We don't tell each other what's happening. 
 So she never knew all these problems that I'm having (laughter).  But, yeah, she told me I could do it. 

 Q.  Do you think you're going to have to stop and see a doctor, really sort of figure this out? 
 VENUS WILLIAMS:  I don't know.  I haven't thought much about what I was going to do after the Open.  I was definitely trying to concentrate on every match.  Like they asked me if I wanted to play on Wednesday.  I said, Sure.  I need time to recover (smiling). 
 I haven't thought a lot about it because I was just trying to get through the tournament.  I love playing.  Hasn't been as much fun playing under these circumstances, because when you don't feel good, it's not fun, as much fun. 
 And I just want to feel good and have fun playing. 

 Q.  Have you spoken to Serena since the match ended? 
 VENUS WILLIAMS:  No.  It's been like 30 minutes. 

 Q.  Your father said she had gone back. 
 VENUS WILLIAMS:  Yeah. 

 Q.  Why didn't she want to stick around? 
 VENUS WILLIAMS:  I didn't ask.  I just let her make her own decisions. 

 Q.  Does it make it any harder to take the disappointment of not winning this, considering she also beat Serena? 
 VENUS WILLIAMS:  I mean, out on the court I was definitely trying to focus on trying to play aggressive and take the points.  I wasn't focused on who she had beat before. 
 I'm disappointed obviously despite any circumstances.  I feel like I should have found a way, despite anything. 

 Q.  When you left the court before the match began, was that because of the illness? 
 VENUS WILLIAMS:  No.  I was just doing a lot of hydrating.  Every time I see a player cramp, I drink like three Gatorades.  I've been drinking so much.  I was just overly hydrated. 

 Q.  What does the experience of winning Wimbledon and then going as far as you have done here when you're not feeling a hundred percent tell you about yourself that maybe you didn't know before? 
 VENUS WILLIAMS:  Well, I felt okay at Wimbledon.  I didn't feel a hundred percent.  But it's definitely all about desire and will, you know.  I really wanted it. 
 I really wanted it here, too, but I fell short.  You know, she played well.  She deserved it. 

 Q.  You still have a chance to get to the Madrid championships.  Might have to play a fairly aggressive schedule.  Are you prepared to do that? 
 VENUS WILLIAMS:  Right now I'm entered in two tournaments and one is part of my commitment to the tour.  That's definitely my focus, is to stay with my commitments and just figure out what I do from here. 

 Q.  Which tournaments? 
 VENUS WILLIAMS:  I'm playing in Korea and Bangkok. 

 Q.  The trainer took your pulse and temperature.  Do you have a temperature? 
 VENUS WILLIAMS:  I don't even know what she said.  I was like in a zone.  But I just was hoping that she had like a magic pill.  She gave me some sports jelly beans.  I just tried to eat 'em, but I was still feeling dizzy (laughter). 

 Q.  Can you tell me what the big difference was between you and Justine? 
 VENUS WILLIAMS:  I think the big difference for me was definitely my footwork.  You know, I have to be in position.  I was a little slow.  Definitely being able to push a little harder, stay in the points a little longer, and even to play aggressively takes a lot of energy. 
 I think just all of that.  But she hung in there and played tough, even when I broke her.  She definitely hung in there after that, too. 

 Q.  Does Henin play you the same way, meaning you and Serena? 
 VENUS WILLIAMS:  I don't know if she has a different approach against us.  I think for sure when she plays us I think she tries to play extremely aggressive in comparison to maybe what she plays other people.  But I think it's with good reason. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT