WIMBLEDON
July 1, 2006
Venus Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
  Q.  You've been able to play your way out of trouble all week.  What was different today?   
 VENUS WILLIAMS:  Uhm, she just played well.  I had a -- you know, I wasn't able to play my best.  Uhm, yeah, yeah, pretty much.   
  
  Q.  Any pain in your wrist or elbow?   
 VENUS WILLIAMS:  Yeah, I was having problems with my left wrist.  It made it very, very, uhm -- yeah, it was tough.   
  
  Q.  Where was the pain?   
 VENUS WILLIAMS:  Left wrist.   
  
  Q.  Sorry?   
 VENUS WILLIAMS:  Left wrist.   
  
  Q.  You were 2-Love up in the final set, then came this debate about the speed of her serve.  You asked the umpire to slow her serve down?   
 VENUS WILLIAMS:  Yeah.  When I was walking to the line, she would serve immediately, which made it difficult to get ready.  So I just --   
  
  Q.  She was serving when you were still walking to your position?   
 VENUS WILLIAMS:  No, as soon as I got into position, like before I could get down, she would start serving.   
  
  Q.  Do you think she was doing that deliberately?   
 VENUS WILLIAMS:  I just think that maybe she plays at that pace.   
  
  Q.  Do you feel that worked against you in the end, the fact you had to bring that up with the umpire?  Did that distract your concentration?  Seemed to be a turning point in the last set.   
 VENUS WILLIAMS:  No.  I had some opportunities there.  But, unfortunately, she played some good tennis.   
  
  Q.  You were playing with fire against Lisa.  Even today, seemed like you were playing with fire much of the day.  You had some chances there at the end.   
 VENUS WILLIAMS:  Yeah, I had some chances.  You know, that court plays much differently than the Centre Court, so it's even more challenging it seems, too.   
  
  Q.  So what did you think of your level today?   
 VENUS WILLIAMS:  Uhm, I would have liked to have played better.  Obviously, I would have liked to have won the match.   
  
  Q.  But was it her or was it you?   
 VENUS WILLIAMS:  It's up to you to decide.  At this point, you know, I'll think about it.   
 But, you know, there were definitely some things I could have done better.  But, as I said, she played well.   
  
  Q.  Last time we talked to you, you said you were going to come in more, come in more, but I don't think you did, did you?   
 VENUS WILLIAMS:  No, no.  I didn't feel like I was getting a good bounce.  It just was bouncing so low, it seemed, a lot of times when I could have came in.  I didn't get in as much as I would have liked.   
  
  Q.  You appeared tired.  Were you tired at any time or just your pace today?   
 VENUS WILLIAMS:  No, I was okay.   
  
  Q.  Were you surprised by the amount of feistiness, amount of spirit that she showed back?  It was almost like a mirror image of yourself at times.   
 VENUS WILLIAMS:  Yeah, I've played her a couple of times before.  You know, I think against a player like me, she I guess feels like maybe she has nothing to lose.  So, you know, she'll come out and just give it all.   
 So that was -- you know, she played well.   
  
  Q.  What kind of second week do you think she'll have?   
 VENUS WILLIAMS:  Uhm, I don't know.  I have no idea.   
  
  Q.  Do you think she's capable of more shocks and upsets?   
 VENUS WILLIAMS:  She's a very good player.  As long as she keeps her level up, she definitely has a chance.   
  
  Q.  You've had five finals here in the last six years.  Does it feel kind of weird going into the second week that you're not going to be there?   
 VENUS WILLIAMS:  Yeah, it definitely feels really weird, it definitely does.  Uhm, you win some, you lose some.  Yeah, I don't know.  I don't know what my thought is (smiling).   
  
  Q.  What did your father say to you afterwards?   
 VENUS WILLIAMS:  Oh, not much really.  Not much.  Not too much really.  Just, "Good job."   
  
  Q.  What do you think about Shenay Perry's progress and how good can she be?   
 VENUS WILLIAMS:  Is she winning?   
  
  Q.  She won today.   
 VENUS WILLIAMS:  I mean, it's a nice story.  I've never really seen her play, per se, to be honest.  I couldn't give you fair assumption (sic) of her game.   
  
  Q.  Do you think the loss is the result of having so much time off at the beginning of the year due to injury and you don't quite have as many matches as you want?   
 VENUS WILLIAMS:  I don't know (laughter).  Yeah, it's nice to have a lot of matches going into these tournaments, into any tournament, for sure.  But, uhm, I definitely think I could have played better tennis whether or not I had more matches or not.   
  
  Q.  When you were playing, your dad was talking to you.  Did you hear him?   
 VENUS WILLIAMS:  Yeah, I hear him sometimes.   
  
  Q.  He was telling you to pick up your game, what's wrong with you, V.  Did you hear that?   
 VENUS WILLIAMS:  Yeah, I think the job of your supporters is to support you.  He does that well.   
  
  Q.  Was that distracting to you?   
 VENUS WILLIAMS:  I'm just trying to get the job done on the court.  I'm trying to produce the best tennis I can.  I suppose whatever it takes.   
  
  Q.  Is it going to be tough to put this one behind you?   
 VENUS WILLIAMS:  Uhm, I'll keep working hard 'cause I feel very positive about my game definitely.  Will it be hard to put it behind me?  I hate losing, obviously.  I'm used to winning - especially here.   
 But as long as, God willing, I'm healthy, I'll be around next year, I'll be around for the next tournament, which I believe is San Diego, LA.   
  
  Q.  Palo Alto, Stanford.   
 VENUS WILLIAMS:  I don't think I'm playing that one.  Wherever I'll be, I'll be hopefully healthy and ready to go.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT