OLYMPIC TENNIS TOURNAMENT
August 18, 2004
Venus Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Venus. 


Q.  Kind of give your overall sense of what happened, how you're feeling now. 

VENUS WILLIAMS:  Well, I think she played well and served well and played some good points at the right time. 

Q.  Can you just talk about how tough it is not winning a medal, after what happened in Sydney where you were able to win one?  How tough is it?

VENUS WILLIAMS:  Obviously, I would have liked to have done better and even win the event.  But, you know, now I just have to learn from, you know, my mistakes. 

Q.  You have played Mary a lot over your career.  Was playing in this atmosphere different, the Olympic atmosphere?  Is playing in this atmosphere different?

VENUS WILLIAMS:  Yeah, it's different, because there's a lot of fans behind me. 

Q.  What memories will you go back with from these Games?  Any positive things?

VENUS WILLIAMS:  Sure, just being part of the experience is great.  Obviously, to qualify to play the Olympics is wonderful.  Hope to do it again in my lifetime. 

Q.  When Serena announced she wasn't going to come right beforehand, we all know what fun you had in Sydney, was that any kind of letdown, her bowing out right before the Games?

VENUS WILLIAMS:  You know, it's over a week ago.  In sports, that's ages ago. 

Q.  In the overall Olympic experience. 

VENUS WILLIAMS:  Yeah, obviously it was different.  But it wasn't a factor at all. 

Q.  Will you head over to New York soon, or are you going to stay around, collect a few more pins?

VENUS WILLIAMS:  No, I'm not going to stay around.  Probably not. 

Q.  Chanda lost, you lost.  Any thoughts about having one day like that?  Yesterday you set a record with a great performance.  Today is another day. 

VENUS WILLIAMS:  That's sports.  You have to play well and play well every day pretty much. 

Q.  In retrospect, was yesterday's win not the right thing for going into a tight one against Mary?

VENUS WILLIAMS:  Definitely, it was the right thing.  I have to try to win every game, no matter who I'm playing.

Q.  Can you say a word about Martina Navratilova.  She's 47, playing in the Olympics.  She won her first match.

VENUS WILLIAMS:  Yeah, she's my teammate.  I hope she brings home the gold. 

Q.  How amazing is it, though, at 47, the way she's still out there?

VENUS WILLIAMS:  It's record-breaking.

Q.  Can you for the record say what this Olympic experience was like for you, meeting the other athletes from all these different countries, and whether it was worthwhile in such a busy schedule?

VENUS WILLIAMS:  Absolutely worthwhile.  I've had a great career so far.  I'm going to add more experiences like this to my career.  This is the epitome of athletics. 

Q.  And life in the village, meeting the other athletes?

VENUS WILLIAMS:  Meeting all the other athletes, it's great.  More than anything you can see how focused everyone is on participating in their event. 

Q.  You've been out recently for several months, just like Justine.  She's now coming back.  What can we expect from her do you think?  What are the dangers?

VENUS WILLIAMS:  I think the best thing to do is to ask Justine. 

Q.  Are you a hundred percent healthy?

VENUS WILLIAMS:  I'm feeling well, thank you.  Feeling well. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT