HOME DEPOT CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 6, 2002
Venus Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Venus, how would you rate your game?

VENUS WILLIAMS:  Well, it was a little difficult out there, you know, because I haven't played a lot in the fall and just a little bit rusty, and really just trying to keep the ball in play and to play my regular game.  It was just a good first round for me, a lot of balls.  I would like to hit a lot better the next round.  Toward the second set, she got a lot of confidence to think maybe she could win the set or try to win the match.

Q.  Was it a question of you maybe losing a little focus or her just getting tougher?

VENUS WILLIAMS:  No, I think I started making more errors.  I was really trying to close it out, but it was just a little tough there.

Q.  How do you feel about playing Seles in the next round?

VENUS WILLIAMS:  Real good.  She was able to win that match when the odds were against her, so if the odds are against me, I hope I can do the same thing she did.  

Q.  Venus, did you find your game at all tonight?  Were there points where you were really pleased with the way you were playing?

VENUS WILLIAM:  Sometimes, especially on my forehand, but I hit all backhands tonight, so I've got to go out and find what I was doing wrong and do my best.  I did well when I was coming in.  I would like to do a little more of that in the next match.

Q.  Did you practice a lot the last couple of weeks?  

VENUS WILLIAMS:  Not especially.  Not as much as I should have, but I did lots of other things and practiced a little bit, so I still feel pretty confident that I can do well in the tournament.

Q.  It didn't look like you had much pressure but you were really relying on your own serve?

VENUS WILLIAMS:  My first serve wasn't going good as much today, but my second serve was doing well.  I think I was hitting my first serve a little too flat.  It was always going long, going long.  I need to bring it back in.

Q.  Venus, did you watch a lot of the Monica and Lindsay match?

VENUS WILLIAMS:  I watched the score.  

Q.  Are you surprised with Monica, at her age, the amount of time she's been on the tour?  

VENUS WILLIAMS:  No.  I'm surprised everyone keeps worrying her about it.  It's annoying to me and I wonder how annoying it is to her.  

Q.  Because you feel she can still play at the top five or top ten?

VENUS WILLIAMS:  Sure, she is doing that right now.

Q.  Do you know when your commercial for McDonalds will come out?

VENUS WILLIAMS:  In November.  Actually, it's November now, so it should be coming out in a few weeks.

Q.  Was that part of the post-match ritual, maybe a Happy Meal, some apple pies or something maybe beforehand, before play?

VENUS WILLIAMS:  Well, I eat more McDonald's in Europe, strangely.  I don't know what the trend is.

Q.  How is your fashion going now?

VENUS WILLIAMS:  Fashion, well, I still design a lot for Wilson's Leather.  I didn't go to school this fall.  That's why you see me playing here.  I'm close to finishing.  I think I have 25 credits left, something like that, so it's not a lot.

Q.  How do you feel about being back at your real home area playing?

VENUS WILLIAMS:  Well, you know, I've got two homes.  It's nice being here.  I kind of get lost.  I don't really know how to get around.  I've got a lot of good memories, though.  Good night.  


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT