US OPEN
August 31, 2002
Venus Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Serena has said she watches the boards to see her own stats.  Do you ever watch to see?

VENUS WILLIAMS:  I didn't know there are stats up there. 

Q.  Happy with that performance, the way you played?

VENUS WILLIAMS:  Yeah.  It seemed to go a little quickly, but I guess that's a nice thing. 

Q.  In a way, would you like more of a test because at some point you're going to get one?  Would it be nice to feel as if you played a bit more? 

VENUS WILLIAMS:  I think I did well.  I think she's a very good player.  The whole time she was looking for a way to get into the match.  I wasn't able to give her that chance today, so that was nice.  I would hate something to get totally out of proportion whereas I'm struggling instead of just going through the way I did today. 

Q.  Potentially you could play Chanda Rubin in the next round.  Could you talk about your recent matches with her, her development since she's come back. 

VENUS WILLIAMS:  Yeah, she's doing really good.  She just took off running once she came back on the tour.  That's really nice.  I think she's playing some good matches.  I guess I look forward to playing her if she wins. 

Q.  You two played in the French Open.  She played a pretty smart match against you, even though you beat her. 

VENUS WILLIAMS:  Yeah, I had I guess a good strategy going in because I wasn't playing as well as I wanted to, so I had to really play some well-placed shots.  So I think here I'm playing a lot better, so I won't have to struggle as much. 

Q.  You know what it's like to win this title.  Is everything going to plan?  Are you feeling as if you're moving up nicely in the buildup to a final next week hopefully?

VENUS WILLIAMS:  Yeah.  Still a long time away, the final, but it's getting closer.  That's a good thing. 

Q.  Your sister appears to be getting most of the attention at the moment, more for what she's wearing on the court than how she's playing.  Are you happy with that?  She seems to enjoy it. 

VENUS WILLIAMS:  I don't know.  I'm not reading the papers exactly.  I do watch the tennis.  But I think she's doing good. 

Q.  In the next round there are more seeded players playing against each other.  How much changes between the third round and the fourth round when the competition gets a little bit tougher?

VENUS WILLIAMS:  What I expect is definitely to get better with each round, so that's what I would like to do.  I know that the competition normally gets better with each round, so I have to be more and more on my toes.  It's something I expect as the tournament progresses. 

Q.  Having not won for a little while, are you hungrier than you have been for a long time?

VENUS WILLIAMS:  I hope.  I hope.  I'm trying hard, trying to do the right things.  Hopefully I'll be rewarded by that.  But there's a lot of people out there in the draw doing the right things, so I just have to do a little better.

Q.  When you watch them on TV, do you turn the sound down?

VENUS WILLIAMS:  Yeah.  Sometimes too much talk for me sometimes. 

Q.  If you don't want to hear what they're saying. 

VENUS WILLIAMS:  I don't keep it too loud, that's for sure.  Everyone has their own opinion nowadays. 

Q.  Is there a difference in the way you prepare mentally when you're playing somebody who isn't ranked than somebody who could possibly give you a better match?

VENUS WILLIAMS:  Not really.  I suppose sometimes I'm a lot more serious going to play a top player.  I'm just as serious going in to play someone who isn't as highly ranked.  Obviously, the stakes aren't as high today because it's not a final, I'm not playing a Top 10, but it's still important that I advance.

Q.  Do you have any kind of rituals that you do before each game?

VENUS WILLIAMS:  No.  Just show up. 

Q.  You say you watch a lot of matches.  Were there any matches so far you enjoyed particularly?

VENUS WILLIAMS:  I haven't really gotten to see the really exciting ones because I've been playing.  But I really like to watch the tennis.

Q.  Your sister said earlier in the week that probably the hardest tennis this week so far has been practice with you.  Perhaps you could pass comments on how she's playing. 

VENUS WILLIAMS:  I'm just hitting it hard because she's hitting it hard.  I'm just trying to do what she does.

Q.  She's looking good, in your opinion?

VENUS WILLIAMS:  Oh, yeah, she looks solid.  She's ready. 

Q.  Is there a particular rationale for the two different kinds of earrings?

VENUS WILLIAMS:  Just trying something different


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT