AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 16, 2001
Venus Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions.  
 
 
Q.  How much did you know about your opponent coming into the match?
 
VENUS WILLIAMS: I didn't know her at all.  So basically I didn't know anything.  
 
Q.  What do you think now?
 
VENUS WILLIAMS: I think she's a very good player.  She plays consistently, and she has a lot of heart.  
 
Q.  David Magraph (phonetic).  Did the second set only fire you up for the last?  Did you get caught by surprise?
 
VENUS WILLIAMS: No, I didn't get caught by surprise because I've played enough before to know when you play your opponents if they lose the first set they'll be coming back in the second.  I think mostly she played very well.  I lost serves a couple of times, twice in a match that was definitely my downfall in the second. 
 
Q.  Holding your serve was the key to the third?
 
VENUS WILLIAMS: Yeah.  I feel like more than anything else today I served well.  I just think I hit a few mistakes at the wrong times in the second set. 
 
Q.  Do you find it hard playing the first tournament of the year to get going? You've been tested before in first round matches here. 
 
VENUS WILLIAMS: No, actually I don't find it too hard to get going here.  I guess I have had a really  -- a couple of strange matches here the first round.  But it's a good thing to have a little test in the first round, especially since I haven't played any tournaments prior to this.  
 
Q.  How long has it been into the match before you thought your game was really working?
 
VENUS WILLIAMS: I didn't feel like I was playing my top form throughout the match.  I think I served very well though, so I was happy with that. 
 
Q.  How concerned were you at the start of the third set?
 
VENUS WILLIAMS: I was, of course concerned because she was playing well and very consistently.  She had a couple of game points on her serve, and somehow I managed to turn it around and after that I was playing okay.  
 
Q.  I don't mean to embarrass you at all, but were you having problems with your outfit? You seemed to be tugging away at your top there.  Was that a distraction to you at all today?
 
VENUS WILLIAMS: No.  
 
Q.  Had you worn that outfit before? Is that new?
 
VENUS WILLIAMS: No, this is a new line.  
 
Q.  Are you going to be able to persevere with it?
 
VENUS WILLIAMS: Naturally.  
 
Q.  Is it like a two-piece thing or a one-piece construction?
 
VENUS WILLIAMS: Two-piece.  
 
Q.  You're happy about it?
 
VENUS WILLIAMS: Oh, definitely. 
 
Q.  Is that something that you designed, I assume?
 
VENUS WILLIAMS: No, no, I didn't design that one. 
 
Q.  For our readers, could you describe the make-up? I don't think I could do it.  It's not my area of expertise.  People are always interested in what you're wearing. 
 
VENUS WILLIAMS: I think you'll do a better job than I would.  
 
Q.  How do you juggle the schooling that you're doing, the design stuff now, with playing?
 
VENUS WILLIAMS: It's not easy.  It's tough. 
 
Q.  What's the secret? What advice would you give to a young girl?
 
VENUS WILLIAMS: The secret is no sleep basically.  You become a zombie for eleven weeks and after thaat you get your sleep back in.  But it's just something I wanted to do so I go ahead and do it.  I have fun doing it.  I'm happy doing it.  If I got to the point where I wasn't able, then I would move on.  But it's not much longer.  I'll be done pretty soon. 
 
Q.  Should education be a priority to young tennis players?
 
VENUS WILLIAMS: Definitely I think so.  Because I think in the first place that education really stimulates your thought process.  You're able to think more clearly and more rationally.  You know more things about the world around you.  And also, tennis is not a guarantee, but usually you are able to keep your mind.  So I think it's very, very important.  
 
Q.  Selena Roberts (phonetic) from New York.  I want to ask you, do you feel pretty fortunate that you're able to go to school and have some time off and be able to get back in it pretty quickly? It took you a couple sets, but you got it back. 
 
VENUS WILLIAMS: I need that time for me.  It's just the way I do things.  I have a short attention span so I have to be doing all types of things.  I think I got that from my dad, we both have short attention spans.  
 
Q.  After last  -- after a fantastic year last year, what expectations have you put on yourself for 2001?
 
VENUS WILLIAMS: Just to be my best and definitely take chances and always continue to go forward and not to regress or even to stay in the same position.  And to just enjoy myself. 
 
Q.  Emulate at least what you did last year?
 
VENUS WILLIAMS: I'm pretty good at defending my titles.  Definitely add a few more.  I'd love to add this one but it's only the second round already.  I got 13 more days ahead of me.  
 
Q.  You've had some anemia problems at the end of last year.  How did you get over that? What was that all about?
 
VENUS WILLIAMS: Well, I was always just tired, and I was thinking that maybe I was actually seriously ill.  But I think  -- I don't think I had a balanced diet and I think it's  -- I think ladies are more prone to anemia than the men are.  So basically I was just too tired to do anything.  Actually I couldn't drive to school; I had to hire a driver because I'd fall asleep and kill myself.  So... 
 
Q.  You seemed very tired in the last couple matches at the Olympics.  Were you already feeling it then a bit?
 
VENUS WILLIAMS: See, I didn't practice very much at the Olympics.  I hit 45 minutes, then I left the court.  I was tired, but I made it happen.  After that it was kind of downhill.  
 
Q.  Missing the tournament here last year, does that give you extra incentive to do well when you come here this time?
 
VENUS WILLIAMS: Definitely.  I really feel motivated when I come down here because basically I make a 24-hour trip just to come.  The ticket is pretty expensive.  I feel that I deserve to reward myself by at least some type of title, so that's the way I try to look at it.  
 
Q.  Other thoughts of the travel, how do you find that? I think when your dad's not here, you're probably also missing your dog.  I read your dog travels around with you?
 
VENUS WILLIAMS: Yes.  I'm so afraid for him, he's so tiny that only I can take care of him.  I need to know where he is at all times so it's tough for me.  I really miss him.  I'll bring pictures next time.  (Laughter.) 
 
Q.  Is the anemia problem behind you now? How are you feeling?
 
VENUS WILLIAMS: Definitely it's behind me.  I'm definitely taking care of myself better, eating my meals correctly, taking my vitamins and growing up.  
 

FastScripts by ASAP Sports….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT