AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 20, 2020
Venus Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








C. GAUFF/V. Williams
7-6, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Can you take us through the moment after the match and tell us about what you said to Coco at the net?
VENUS WILLIAMS: I think it was a good match, well played.
Q. Can you share anything she said back to you?
VENUS WILLIAMS: I think just, Good match, well played, yeah.
Q. How was this similar or different to the match you two played at Wimbledon?
VENUS WILLIAMS: That match, I think honestly she played really well, consistently, both matches. So I think that was some of the similarities. She just played really well and really focused.
Q. Any differences?
VENUS WILLIAMS: Uhm, honestly that was a while ago. But I think, like I said, I already said what I said.
Q. Can you take a minute and talk about her game, her strokes, and also talk about her mind for a 15-year-old.
VENUS WILLIAMS: I can't really comment on someone else's mind.
But she played well, like I said. Just played very focused and put a lot of balls in the court. That's what you have to do. She'll play well the rest of the event.
Q. Do you think she has a champion's mentality possibly to go to the very top of this game?
VENUS WILLIAMS: Yeah, I mean, she clearly wants it, works very hard, is extremely mature for her age. I think the sky's the limit for her.
Q. Talk about how you felt coming into this tournament.
VENUS WILLIAMS: I mean, I was very excited. I love being down here. I love playing in Australia. It's one of my favorite events.
Q. There was a famous writer in Italy who wrote a beautiful book about my first 40 years, and now my next 40 years. What would you think you could be possibly writing about your next 40 years?
VENUS WILLIAMS: I hate writing. I'm not a writer. It's never going to happen for me.
So, if anything, it would have to be a podcast. The next 40 years, I'm out.
Q. When Tipsarevic just retired recently, the Serbian, he said the one thing that he's gotten from the sport of tennis is toughness. What do you think the one or two things are that you have gotten from this sport?
VENUS WILLIAMS: So many. I wrote a book about it, it's called 'Come to Win'. Yeah, it's available I think on Kindle, hard cover, soft cover. It's all in there.
Q. Can you send me a review copy?
VENUS WILLIAMS: Support a sister, get one.
Q. Help us understand, the oldest men's players are winning and the youngest in women's are winning. Why is that such a strong contrast?
VENUS WILLIAMS: Am I supposed to know? I don't know. Not something I think about.
Q. This is a big Grand Slam for the Danish people because Caroline is retiring. You obviously know her pretty well.
VENUS WILLIAMS: Yeah.
Q. In your mind what is her legacy and what made her a difficult player to play against?
VENUS WILLIAMS: Obviously her footwork and the ability to play defense and offense. We played a lot of great matches. Wishing her obviously a lot of luck in this event. It looks like she's hitting the ball well.
Q. This is an Olympic year. How much is that in your mind when you think about scheduling this year?
VENUS WILLIAMS: Yeah, it's kind of not that close. There's a lot going on before then. Definitely not at the forefront.
But if I'm blessed enough to play again, that would be an amazing opportunity.
Q. In doubles, especially?
VENUS WILLIAMS: In doubles?
Q. At the Olympics.
VENUS WILLIAMS: Yeah, had a lot of success in doubles. That's been a real highlight in my career.
Q. Would you ever play more doubles to get ready for the Olympics or get your doubles ranking up?
VENUS WILLIAMS: In a perfect world, I would play every time. I love it.
Q. Have you and Serena talked about playing in the Olympics together?
VENUS WILLIAMS: I mean, in the perfect world, we'll be there.
Q. Tennis draws are curious, quirky things. What went through your mind when you saw you would have to play Coco in the first round?
VENUS WILLIAMS: Yeah, this is the draw. Nothing in particular. Just try to prepare the best that I can and try to be ready. That's all you can do in any first round in any tournament.
Q. It looked like you really picked up your game some towards the middle, end of the first set. What were you doing well?
VENUS WILLIAMS: Just trying to find some rhythm. That's all. You have to keep trying. That's what I tried to do.
Q. You talked about Australia being one of your favorite places to come. What is special about playing down here? What will you do now as you prepare for the next tournament?
VENUS WILLIAMS: Yeah, I mean, obviously it's where you want to be, the majors. It's just a special excitement.
Q. What are your plans for scheduling? Are you playing any tournaments before Indian Wells?
VENUS WILLIAMS: Uhm, a little this, a little that. We'll see. I'm planning to, yeah.
Q. Do you know which ones?
VENUS WILLIAMS: No, not yet. But I'll definitely be in action before then.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT