WIMBLEDON
July 3, 2000
Venus Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Good afternoon.  Venus Williams.  Who would like to start? 


Q.  What happened at 5-1?  Did your concentration snap?

VENUS WILLIAMS:  I think a little bit at 5-1.  But also she was fighting for every point.  She was playing quite well.  All my forceful shots, she was getting back.  She played well. 

Q.  That first game of the second set went 12 deuces.  What goes through your mind on a game going that long?

VENUS WILLIAMS:  I felt I should have won the game long before the 12th deuce.  Sometimes it ends that way.  I believe I got a lot of momentum from that game. 

Q.  Closing out of the match, wasn't a question of you tightening up, was it?

VENUS WILLIAMS:  No.  I was up 6-4, 5-1.  I was at the advantage.  If anything, it was her who was under pressure to stay in the match.  I think I just made some errors, a lot of easy shots I missed.  I think today I missed quite a few easy shots.  I usually don't do that.

Q.  Will you go back from here to watch Serena?

VENUS WILLIAMS:  Yeah, I'm trying to get over there right now. 

Q.  Looks like Hingis in the quarters.  How do you feel about that?

VENUS WILLIAMS:  I feel good.  It will be the first time I've been able to play her this year.  Just continue serving well, playing consistently, and moving forward.

Q.  You said after your US Open match, you really wanted to get back and beat her, that that was a disappointing match for you. 

VENUS WILLIAMS:  No, I didn't say that.

Q.  You have said since then  - I'm sorry, I misunderstood - it was a disappointing match for you, you wanted to get back and sort of make up for that. 

VENUS WILLIAMS:  Serena made up for that for me.  Hopefully I'll have another opportunity to play better, at least play the best that I can.

Q.  Are you annoyed with your own consistency because of what happened against Dechy and what happened today?

VENUS WILLIAMS:  Yeah, it really is annoying.  But I can raise the level of my game.  I just have to get my mind there.  There's no way these girls should be competing like that against me in these sets, unless I of course let them. 

Q.  What's the key to playing Hingis?  How do you tactically approach it?

VENUS WILLIAMS:  I think the key is that usually when you play her, she gets quite a few balls back, plays consistently.  Usually you hit yourself out of the match and make quite a few mistakes.  Initially I think the main thing is also to think about what you're doing, not concentrate on what your opponent is doing.  Once you start doing that, it's gone. 

Q.  Both of you are coached by parents.  There's been a lot of attention this week to the advantages and disadvantages of having a parent as a coach.  What do you see as the pros and cons to having a parent as your coach?

VENUS WILLIAMS:  Pros and cons, I don't know.  It's the way I want it to be.  If I felt there was any day that I wouldn't be able to continue in such a manner, then I believe I would just tell my dad, tell my mom, "Hey, it's time to move on."  They would understand that.

Q.  Is it more difficult in some ways; are there more pressures because your parent is so close with you off the court, that when you get on the court, there are additional tensions?

VENUS WILLIAMS:  No, I don't think so.  I think there's more leeway for them to be honest.  If you hired a coach, maybe they're just trying to keep their job.  Who knows.  The parents, they can tell you just how it is.  One thing, they're never going to try to hurt you; always try to help you.

Q.  You look at it as an advantage for you?

VENUS WILLIAMS:  I think so.  I can't think of anyone I would like to work with or anyone I can get along with for such a long period of time. 

Q.  Just on the difficulty you've had closing out matches.  You can't let that happen against Hingis, can you?

VENUS WILLIAMS:  I've let it happen before.  It hasn't been as much fun as it would have been closing it out pretty soon.  So it would just make my day a lot easier. 

Q.  How much improvement do you think you have to make in your game with Hingis?  How far off do you think you're playing from a hundred percent at the moment?

VENUS WILLIAMS:  Yeah, I'm playing pretty good.

Q.  Going to have to step it up another level for the Hingis game?

VENUS WILLIAMS:  Why not? 

Q.  Did you do anything special yesterday on the rest day?

VENUS WILLIAMS:  No, I did nothing.  Just cleaning.

Q.  Cleaning?

VENUS WILLIAMS:  Yeah.

Q.  As in house work cleaning?

VENUS WILLIAMS:  Yes.

Q.  Have you got all your enthusiasm and appetite for the game back since the six months off?

VENUS WILLIAMS:  Yeah.  I've been working hard, doing my best to get at the level I'm at now, especially with my serve.  I'm much more consistent than I was, say, at the French Open.  But it's just a matter of staying calm during the rallies.

Q.  How likely do you think it will be that you play your sister in the semifinal here?

VENUS WILLIAMS:  I'd like it to happen.  We'd both like it to happen.  Give each other the opportunity that one Williams will be in the final. 

Q.  Sorry?

VENUS WILLIAMS:  We'd like to have that opportunity.  At least one Williams would be in the final. 

Q.  Do you like playing her?

VENUS WILLIAMS:  Sure.  She's a great player.  What do you mean? 

Q.  I just wondered. 

VENUS WILLIAMS:  You know, you can't exactly say, "I want my name to be by Serena Williams."  She's a tough player.  When the time comes, got to step up.

Q.  How much will you rely on her for advice on how to beat Martina?

VENUS WILLIAMS:  I mean, I've played Martina thousands of times.  Serena's played her a few less times.  If I don't know what I'm doing right now....  I should be more concentrated on my game. 

Q.  Are you scared of her?

VENUS WILLIAMS:  No.

Q.  Why not?

VENUS WILLIAMS:  Why should I be? 

Q.  She's world No.  1. 

VENUS WILLIAMS:  So what? 

Q.  Is there any reason why you don't have the WTA logo on your dress today?

VENUS WILLIAMS:  No.  Just here to talk about mostly tennis. 

Q.  Your enthusiasm is right back now, you're thoroughly enjoying it?

VENUS WILLIAMS:  I feel good.  But I want to go to Serena's match now.  That's all. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT