WIMBLEDON
July 1, 2000
Venus Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MODERATOR: I have Venus Williams. Who would like to start?

Q. You look like you're making your own sunshine because the weather is so bad. 

VENUS WILLIAMS: Pardon? 

Q. Making your own sunshine. 

VENUS WILLIAMS: With what? 

Q. Yellow (referring to clothes). 

VENUS WILLIAMS: I like this colour. I hope so.

Q. How are the wrists now?

VENUS WILLIAMS: Very good. I feel very good. I had absolutely no problems in the match
today at all.

Q. First set easy; second set she fought pretty hard. 

VENUS WILLIAMS: She fought pretty hard. I think the main thing was that I didn't return
the serve as well. I think also a little bit I stopped playing aggressively and my serve
was less accurate. I think those are the three main factors. My technique broke down a
bit.

Q. What do you mean by "aggressively"? 

VENUS WILLIAMS: Just attacking the short balls, serving and volleying some, moving
forward. Things like that can't get away from me in the second set just because things are
going easy.

Q. Can you feel that happening while the set is continuing?

VENUS WILLIAMS: Yeah, you can feel it. When things get closer, I think it's more tough
and it takes more guts to change it. I think in the end, I definitely played the better
match. 

Q. Did you watch the ceremony today out there?

VENUS WILLIAMS: No. I was actually out practising because I didn't know if the match
would end early, someone will pull out. You never know when you're next match on. I didn't
see any of it till the very end.

Q. Does that give you any inspiration?

VENUS WILLIAMS: Yeah, I thought to myself, "If I had just been serious and I had
won this tournament, I could have been out there, too." But it's too late. I can't be
part of the millennium parade.

Q. You mentioned being serious. That's something both you and your dad have talked
about. Why do you think you've gotten more serious about tennis?

VENUS WILLIAMS: I've been pretty serious the whole time, but maybe not in the right
way. Like you can go out there and play a match, but if you don't do the right things, you
play just as hard as the next person, but I lose the match. Sure, a great effort, but the
win didn't come. 

Q. Not maybe concentrating at the right times?

VENUS WILLIAMS: It's the same things with being serious. Sure, you can be serious, but
you have to get out there on the practise court, practise the right things, execute the
match. If you don't execute, someone else will.

Q. Why do you think you're better at that this year?

VENUS WILLIAMS: I haven't been really. I haven't even been around. At this Wimbledon, I
am a little better. I've been working hard to get back in form, moving forward much more
than what I ever have. Three consecutive matches in a row - sure, sometimes one match I
will, but the next I go back. But I'm doing better. 

Q. Is part of the break you took simply because you weren't enjoying it as much as you
wanted to? Are you enjoying it more now? That is not a factor?

VENUS WILLIAMS: Not a factor. I just couldn't -- maybe I could have tried, but I think
maybe I would have just ended up a lot worse, maybe still be out. Am I enjoying it more?
Maybe a little bit. I'm trying to just enjoy the battle more. If it gets to be 4-All, say,
"Hey, I'm going to show her who is toughest." That's the way I want to feel
every match.

Q. Was the talk about retirement your idea?

VENUS WILLIAMS: It was just a rumour that I read on the Internet. I read it on the
Internet first, said, "Oh, wow, something else." My life has been a saga.

Q. Are you calling the shots in your career or are your parents?

VENUS WILLIAMS: Yeah, if I could have called the shots a bit better, I would have had a
couple more Grand Slams in my pocket. Maybe I'm not calling the shots like I think I am.

Q. In terms of the decision making, your dad obviously has talked about your education,
possibly going into web casting, this kind of thing. You're 20 now. Is it time for you to
make all the calls or do you depend on your dad?

VENUS WILLIAMS: It depends on what decision it is. I don't know. My parents have taught
us to make decisions on our own, to be independent. But we always still ask for advice on
certain things. Certain things we still go, "Can we go; can we do this?" It's
quite odd. They have a weird hold on us (laughter). 

Q. If he said, "I think you should retire," would you retire?

VENUS WILLIAMS: No, probably not, unless I wanted to.

Q. When you were off the tour for six months, was there a time when you thought that
you really loved not being on the tour?

VENUS WILLIAMS: No, not a time at all. I had a lot more time to get things done, I
would say, a lot more time for relaxing.

Q. Do you know your next opponent, Sabine Appelmans? Do you know her?

VENUS WILLIAMS: I'm playing Sabine Appelmans? 

Q. I guess. Do you know her?

VENUS WILLIAMS: Are you sure? Someone told me it was Lisa Raymond. 

Q. Sabine Appelmans. 

VENUS WILLIAMS: I haven't played her in five years. 

Q. How will you prepare knowing that she's a lefty? Maybe you don't. 

VENUS WILLIAMS: I think she's been playing pretty good to be in the fourth round, for
sure. I believe the seed fell out early in the first round, which is terrible. Hopefully
I'll be playing well and get an opportunity to move into the quarters.

Q. You follow Pete's career closely. Have you been watching what's been going on today?
What do you make of today, that he played today?

VENUS WILLIAMS: Pete? 

Q. Yes. 

VENUS WILLIAMS: What do you mean? 

Q. I know you keep track of his career, use him as your measuring stick. 

VENUS WILLIAMS: Sure.

Q. Were you worried he wasn't going to be able to play?

VENUS WILLIAMS: I wasn't sure because I read or heard in the Wimbledon Highlights that
he was having some issues. I just wanted to make sure he was ready to go on the court in
case he retired, make sure I had all my warm-up done. That's all I felt basically. Never
know what's going to happen with the match before you, so I had to be ready.

Q. But you're not paying more attention to Pete than other players?

VENUS WILLIAMS: No. I have to be interested in me. Sure, I want Pete to win. Most
Americans, lots of people, want him to get his 13th right here. He loves Wimbledon. I
really got to be interested in what I'm doing, really. 

Q. If you'd been interested, maybe you can ask your sister for advice against Sabine
because she played her twice this year. 

VENUS WILLIAMS: She has. 

Q. Will you do that?

VENUS WILLIAMS: It was pretty close in the second set, most times.

Q. In the Australian Open, yes. 

VENUS WILLIAMS: I just think that Serena has some fast starts. Appelmans kind of crept
in a little bit. It will be a good thing to ask her for advice.

Q. What did you miss most when you were gone about the tour, if you did?

VENUS WILLIAMS: My points. 

Q. I think a lot of people grow up with the idea that tennis is going to be so much
fun, then they get on the tour and realise it's a job. I was wondering, when was the time
where it felt most like the job to you? Since then has it been more fun? Has there been a
time when you felt like, "Tennis is fun"? 

VENUS WILLIAMS: I don't think it's really a job. It's an exercise most of all. It's a
great job, if you call it a job. Most people have to get in the office and work, maybe in
the field, in the farm, in the factory. That's a job. Out here, I'm free, playing in the
sun, rain delay, get the day off. Where's the problem? 

Q. The newspapers cover this tournament so much differently than the other Grand Slams.
Do you and Serena read the papers and the stuff they say about the tennis players, the
tabloids?

VENUS WILLIAMS: Not really. Not really. I don't buy too many papers. I don't have any
money.

Q. The tabs write stuff that's not so much tennis oriented.

VENUS WILLIAMS: I think maybe they twist the story to make it exciting.

Q. Have you been asked any funny questions about yourselves?

VENUS WILLIAMS: No, not at this point, no. 

Q. Did you put yourself on an allowance, on notice again?

VENUS WILLIAMS: I have my cell phone back, but I've been talking too much. 

Q. Shopping?

VENUS WILLIAMS: No, I'm not shopping, no, not at all. But I just haven't changed any
money, so I kind of leach off Serena and my dad. That's okay. I can use my credit card,
sure. Where I can't, I just hope they have money.

Q. What were your emotions watching the US Open final last year?

VENUS WILLIAMS: Serena was playing real good. I was just thinking about that, too, how
she moved forward, just took the match for herself. She set an example what I need to do.
I had a pretty tough loss the day before, so naturally I wasn't feeling up and dandy. Who
would? But naturally I wouldn't want the girl who defeated me to win against my sister. 

Q. You came back from a long break, had a little trouble getting your rhythm back.
Serena goes away, doesn't play for a long time, comes back and wins pretty handily, in top
form. What do you think she's able to do that you're not able to do coming back from a
layoff?

VENUS WILLIAMS: Well, I think she was off for two months. I think for the most part she
was able to practise, but not nearly as much as she wanted to. But for me, for six months
I couldn't practise, except for about two weeks before I played my first tournament. I had
no practise for five and a half months. That really made a difference, too. I believe
before I had some time off from tendonitis in the knee, I don't know, two months off, I
didn't play the Chase that year. I came back pretty regular. I think the main difference
is she was able to practise a certain amount; I didn't do any really. 

Q. How do you avoid sibling jealousies?

VENUS WILLIAMS: I don't even think we have that in our heart. We have separately.
Whatever we share, we share the best we can. I don't think it's inside of us.

Q. Was there ever a point where you kind of felt like, "How did she get to the
first Grand Slam in the family?" 

VENUS WILLIAMS: Does it really matter? She played better. It's my loss. It's her win.
We won the same. It's all in the Williams family.

Q. If you would win Wimbledon, what would you do with the trophy?

VENUS WILLIAMS: I wouldn't get to keep it. I'd hold it up high, I tell you. 

Q. You have a small replica. What would you do with that?

VENUS WILLIAMS: I don't know. I'd put it in my mom and dad's house, in the dining room,
I guess. That's where all the other ones go. 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT