BNP PARIBAS WTA FINALS SINGAPORE
October 28, 2017
Venus Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
V. WILLIAMS/C. Garcia   
6-7, 6-2, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  You seemed really excited after you won the match.  What were some of the emotions going through your mind?  
VENUS WILLIAMS: You know, she played so well.  You never know when the last point is going to end and going to go your way.  To see that match over, you know, I was excited.   
 Q.  Do you feel like your game just progressively improved through that match?  Because you seemed a little flat in the beginning and she was pretty strong.  Then it seemed to turn around.  
VENUS WILLIAMS: Yeah, I mean, I haven't played her in a long time.  It's hard to gauge what to expect, you know, coming across the net.   
She's improved her game so much.  Of course I had a lot of respect for her.  I think in the second and third I was able to figure it out a little more.   
 Q.  Martina Hingis retired today.  You played together for many years.  You had an intense rivalry.  What will you remember most of her as a person and an athlete?  
VENUS WILLIAMS: Well, in retrospect, I remember her telling me about a year ago, you know, it was, like, Oh, it would be fun to play together.  And she's, like, Yeah, we should do it soon.  Time's running out.   
Now I get it.  I would have loved to have played doubles with her.  Maybe she will come back and play with me one more time (smiling).   
 Q.  After that first set, just sitting on the changeover, what did you kind of think?  Was it just a matter of cleaning things up a little bit?  Your unforced errors went down drastically after that.  It seemed like you were forcing her to play through the points.  
VENUS WILLIAMS: Well, putting the ball in the court always helps.  Maybe hit a winner, maybe get lucky.  I think all of that was there.   
 Q.  Martina said in her press conference today part of the reason she feels herself, you, and Serena have been able to stick around for as long as you have is because you were more mature and maybe had been taught better perhaps by their parents growing up.  I'm curious what you make of that and if you think maybe there is some truth to that.  
VENUS WILLIAMS: I like my job.  That's why I'm here.   
 Q.  You're facing Caroline tomorrow.  How do you see her as an opponent right now?  
VENUS WILLIAMS: She's playing well.  I haven't really seen her play a lot.  I haven't played her in ages.  I have to gauge how it goes and try to figure out the solution.   
 Q.  She told us the other day that you always treated her like a little sister.  
VENUS WILLIAMS: Oh, really?  That's sweet.   
 Q.  Do you remember your first meeting with her when she was 12 years old in Copenhagen?  
VENUS WILLIAMS: I don't, unfortunately, but I have seen pictures.   
 Q.  How do you see her as a person?  
VENUS WILLIAMS: She's an awesome player, awesome person, awesome all around.   
 Q.  Obviously you have a great record over Caroline.  You have beat her all seven times you played.  You've only lost a set, but it's been a while.  Does that have any bearing when you walk on the court tomorrow or not so much?  
VENUS WILLIAMS: At this level I think we've both improved our game.  You have to to stay on tour.  So I will see what she's doing, see what's working.   
 Q.  When you come home from traveling, what is the first thing you like to do best when you come home from a trip?  
VENUS WILLIAMS: I get my dog dropped off.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT