BNP PARIBAS WTA FINALS SINGAPORE
October 22, 2017
Venus Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
K. PLISKOVA/V. Williams   
6-2, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Did she just start out fast out there?  Did you feel like you started out slow?  What was your perception of the match?  
VENUS WILLIAMS: Yeah, we started out with a couple of breaks.  I had some chances, but in the end she played really well.  You know, there is the next match to focus on now.   
 Q.  From a tactical or technical perspective, what do you think you could have done better to make a difference in that match today?  
VENUS WILLIAMS: You know, just have to put the ball in the court.  That really is what it boils down to.   
 Q.  Is that kind of the charm of this kind of format?  I mean, you lost the first match but you could still win the tournament or be in the semis or whatever, that you get a second chance.  
VENUS WILLIAMS: Yeah, I have been in this position before.  So I will be back on Tuesday.   
 Q.  Can you talk a little about receiving her serve?  She's obviously top of the tour on the ace count.  How difficult is it?  Is it easy to read?  
VENUS WILLIAMS: I felt like I returned well today.  I just didn't execute as well during the point.   
 Q.  You started out of course 0-2 and then you got the next two games, and then after that she won the next four.  When it got to 2-2, did you think you were finally getting your bearings?  
VENUS WILLIAMS: Yeah, definitely was playing better in the second set but she just seemed to have all the answers.  You know, some days that's how it is.  Hopefully I will have more luck in the next ones.   
 Q.  Is this a surface where it's so kind of tricky or difficult that a lot of adjustments have to be made to the game when you're playing the matches, or do you feel like you're still just going to go out there and just kind of play the game that is the natural game that you have, that you feel, you know, like playing?  
VENUS WILLIAMS: Yeah, every surface has its challenges.  At the end of the day you have to put the ball in the court no matter what surface it is.   
 Q.  What do you think you learned or gained from today's match?  
VENUS WILLIAMS: I'm already on to the next one.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT