U.S. OPEN
August 30, 2017
Venus Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
V. WILLIAMS/O. Dodin   
7-5, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How do you feel tonight's match compares to the first round?  Any improvements?  
VENUS WILLIAMS: Yeah, I mean, I played two big servers in both rounds.  When you get your opportunities, you do have to close on them, then sometimes they don't come back, so...   
Today by the stats the match was super clean.  Obviously there was an opportunity there to get a 2-2 match perhaps.  But, you know, I feel like each round is a time to improve.   
 Q.  You talk about experience a lot in your press conferences.  It was on display.  Did you sense that as well when she was coming back from 5-2?  
VENUS WILLIAMS: I don't know.  I just try to win the game, try to win the match.  Experience should help hopefully.   
 Q.  Especially after this year in which you've made deep runs in two Grand Slams, do you have a feeling this early in tournaments that you're playing where you want to be, you have a possibility to make another deep run?  
VENUS WILLIAMS: I don't know.  I mean, when you come to the tournament, nobody plans on when they're losing.  Let's put it that way.  My goal's to win every match.  That's all I can do.   
 Q.  Do you like the first weeks of the tournament compared to the second where you're a little bit more under the radar, nobody is asking you the intense questions every day?  Do you like the anonymity, as much as possible with you?  
VENUS WILLIAMS: For me, I'm just going on the court, practicing, preparing, and recovering and playing the match.  I'm not out there reading press, watching TV or trying to see who said I was going to win.  At the end of the day there's people who are talking about the winning and there are people who are actually playing the matches.   
I need to play the match.   
 Q.  You play Maria Sakkari next.  What are some of your memories of facing her?  
VENUS WILLIAMS: It will be a little bit different than the first two matches, especially in terms of the service games.  We did play a well-contested match.  I'm going to have a lot of opportunities and I'm going to want to capitalize on them.  I'm looking forward to it.   
Good night, y'all.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT