US OPEN
August 28, 2019
Venus Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
E. SVITOLINA/V. Williams   
6-4, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Tough loss today. You're still a role model to so many. This question is a bit off-topic of the tennis you played today. Writing a story on WTA's partnership with IU East, and I was wondering how you found that program and your thoughts on it.  
VENUS WILLIAMS: I like the faculty and also I had a lot of arts credits and they took them. It was two things.   
 Q.  Can you talk a little bit about your tennis today. Possibly your future, what's the rest of your year looking like? Are you going to stay active playing for the rest of the year? Can you talk a little bit about your tennis.  
VENUS WILLIAMS: Yeah, I mean, today was a great match. It was well-contested and it was great to have the crowd behind me. It was just a really magical atmosphere.   
I did a lot of things right today. A lot of great things to build on. I missed Asia the last couple of years, so I'd love to head on over and play some more matches.   
 Q.  So you do intend to play out for the rest of the year?  
VENUS WILLIAMS: Yeah.   
 Q.  It was remarkable tennis out there today. Can you appreciate that even in a loss of how well you hit the ball, off the backhand, forehand, coming to the net? Can you take a positive from that?  
VENUS WILLIAMS: Yeah, like I said, it was a lot of positives for me today. I served well and I played well. She played well. There's a lot for me to build on from there. I'm excited to get to my next matches and sad it had to end early here.   
 Q.  What makes Svitolina a tough opponent?  
VENUS WILLIAMS: She always plays extremely well against me. You know, she can keep that form up and she's got a lot of great things ahead of her. I think there are probably a lot of matches that are winnable for her that she hasn't been able to win. But against me, she plays extremely well.   
You know, she keeps that up, then she's clearly extremely talented and just can continue to go higher.   
 Q.  You have been important in terms of expanding tennis, getting more youth to play tennis. Could you talk about the state of youth tennis and some of the efforts to get more kids to play and become more and more of a mainstream sport.  
VENUS WILLIAMS: Yeah, tennis -- of course I love it. It's been just such a catalyst for me in every single way. I continue to learn lessons. It's a beautiful game. I love being a part of Net Generation, seeing young people play and seeing a lot of people come through in America from all walks of life. I'm a huge proponent of American tennis. I am extremely excited to be a part of building it.   
 Q.  Do you miss playing doubles at all? Can we expect to see you...  
VENUS WILLIAMS: I desperately miss doubles. I have been working hard to get myself in a position this year where I can play singles and doubles. I think I'm getting real close.   
 Q.  With everything that you have done through your career, you said there's positives and you're eager to continue, any other goals now or anything you would like to put on at this part of your career after you have done so much?  
VENUS WILLIAMS: There's not a lot that I haven't done or come close to doing, which is exciting. I'd love to play a little bit more mixed doubles. I think this finals here at the US Open is the only major final I have never been to in mixed. It would have been exciting to play here and I thought about it.   
Of course I love the challenge of playing tennis. It's beautiful.   
 Q.  When you say a lot of things you have accomplished and you have done, what keeps you playing, then? Is it strictly a love of the game or is there one more title, one more thing out there you want to put your hand on?  
VENUS WILLIAMS: I have spoken about this quite extensively in the past.   
 Q.  Could you just briefly...  
VENUS WILLIAMS: (No response.)   
 Q.  How often do you drink a coffee during the match? What does that do for you? Do you feel as if that gave you a bit of a jolt the way one of us might in our jobs?  
VENUS WILLIAMS: Yeah, I did do that, huh? I did that, didn't I? Yeah, I did it.   
 Q.  Is that something you have done before or you do in practice?  
VENUS WILLIAMS: I did drink coffee, huh?   
 Q.  I don't know.  
VENUS WILLIAMS: Very observant. You guys, can't pull anything on you, huh?   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT