DONGFENG MOTOR WUHAN OPEN
September 28, 2016
Venus Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. KUZNETSOVA/V. Williams   
6-2, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Now you have finished your matches in Wuhan.  Are you going to go to Beijing and prepare for the China Open and do you have any expectations for the Singapore tournament?  As regarding to your apparel brand, do you think one day you will have your brand in China?  
VENUS WILLIAMS: Yeah, I'm just going to go into Beijing and try to play well.   
I definitely hope to bring my brand to China.  That would be awesome.  I'm not sure when.  Maybe in the next couple years.  So we'll see.  But I definitely have plans to do it.   
 Q.  We all know you were the champion in the Wuhan Open.  This year many people had high expectations for you.  Today's match was a surprise.  Will you tell us why you lost so fast?  Do you have any reasons for that?  
VENUS WILLIAMS: Yeah, I think she just played well.  Not every day is your day.  Hopefully I'll be able to come back next year and play amazing tennis.   
 Q.  A tough day for you out there.  She played a really good match.  From your side, what do you think didn't go as well as what you would have wanted to?  
VENUS WILLIAMS: Yeah, just definitely wasn't the best day on the court.  Like I said, she played really well.  Total credit to her for showing up today.   
 Q.  This is the first time the roof was closed in the tournament.  How different was it?  What were the conditions like?  
VENUS WILLIAMS: I mean, I've played under a closed roof.  I don't think it was like a huge difference.  It was super windy out, but it didn't feel that windy when the roof was closed.  I don't think it was a huge difference.   
 Q.  With your game today, was it just a matter of feeling physically flat, not being able to execute, footwork?  Where did you see it derail today?  
VENUS WILLIAMS: Not a lot of execution on my end.  Definitely have to play better.  That's all I can do.   
 Q.  Your sister yesterday put out an emotional, heartfelt post on Facebook on Black Lives Matter.  How important do you think it is for you and your sister and other black athletes to speak out on those issues?  
VENUS WILLIAMS: I haven't seen the post.  I think all lives matter, so...  I can't really comment.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT