SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
November 5, 2015
Jonathan Randolph
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Quotes from:
JONATHAN RANDOLPH
Q. Not the finish you were looking for today.  What kind of happened down the stretch there?
JONATHAN RANDOLPH: Well, I didn't hit fairways all day, which is what I have done all week, I've been playing out of the fairway, and I actually dropped some balls in the rough just so I could see how it's playing out of the rough.  Just the way the game works.  Every now and then you show up and it doesn't go as planned.  But to only have two balls jump to the point where I had a tough time getting them up and down, I'm pleased with the way it went.
Q. Halfway satisfied with 3-under?
JONATHAN RANDOLPH: Yeah, halfway.  I know there's weather coming in, so I wanted to get as many as I can early, and shooting even on the front, I knew I needed to kick it into high gear, and I was able to do that.  But yeah, would have liked to finish a little better, but it's fine.
Q. How big was that putt just on 10 just to kind of get things going for the day?
JONATHAN RANDOLPH: It was really big.  You know, I'd told my caddie leading into the week I was like you're going to have so many 20 and 30-footers that you miss by a dimple out here, and you just have to stick with it and stay patient.  And one of them fell, and I made one on the next hole for par, and it seemed like the holes started getting a little bigger and started hitting it a little closer, too, so that always helps.
Q. You had a ton of media obligations.  You're playing here for the first time.  Did you do anything differently this year, this week in terms of handling the preparation?
JONATHAN RANDOLPH: Yeah, I sat at home for three weeks and I wasn't having to be on the road for what seemed like the umpteenth month in a row.  So actually I'm really well rested right now, and last year I was getting kind of burned out a little bit, and that happened again this year.  And I'm a rookie, and I'm learning how to deal with the travel and how much energy to give to certain things.  And I definitely feel really, really prepared this year.
Q. How difficult was it to balance wanting to go and put a good score with all the weather coming but not be too aggressive and not push it too much?
JONATHAN RANDOLPH: Yeah, you know, that's where being a member comes in handy, because I know -- I looked at my caddie and said, all right, three in a row right here.  I knew I could make three in a row.  I've played enough with the boys on Saturday to know when I needed to make my birdies, and I was able to do that today and not hurt myself on some of the other holes that they can jump up and get you.  So it was kind of a good balance act.
Q. Surprise at 8-under?  Is that a good number?
JONATHAN RANDOLPH: That's a really good number.  Well, I'm not surprised because the greens are perfect, and these guys are the best putters in the world, and you know, soft conditions, you can put it in there pretty close, even out of the rough as long as it doesn't jump.  And you don't want to spot them too many shots because they're going to keep making putts, too.  But it's out there for anybody any day.  So that's the good news.
Q. What's different for you now leaving the course and all the other guys being here, your home course, staying at home?
JONATHAN RANDOLPH: It's awesome.  I want to go shopping a little bit, go get some hunting supplies for the rest of the year, and I'm just going to kickback, and it's nice to go home.  My dog's at home, so I can go just relax and kick my feet up.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT