SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
November 5, 2014
Jonathan Randolph
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MARK STEVENS:   We'd like to introduce Jonathan Randolph.   You've made a few starts in the past at the Sanderson Farms Championship.   This year is the first as an official member of the PGA TOUR.   Kind of talk about your thoughts coming into this week, playing in your hometown and a course that you've played a lot. 
JONATHAN RANDOLPH:   Yeah, it's really nice to come home and play somewhere that I've been before, and just the fact that I've started the Web Tour this year in South America and just been everywhere, to be able to come home and sleep in my own bed, it's really nice. 

Q.   Have you played the course before, and how do you think you're going to fare this week?
JONATHAN RANDOLPH:   Yeah, tournament conditions are a lot different than regular member play.   I've been playing‑‑ this is the course that I call home for the last three‑‑ a little over three years.   I've clocked in more rounds out here than anybody playing, but you know, it's not always the same.   But I feel really comfortable out there, and there's some holes that my buddies are pulling out hybrids off the tee, and I'm like, no, just hit driver. 
It's definitely an advantage, and I feel comfortable, real comfy.

Q.   How do you feel playing in front of family and friends? 
JONATHAN RANDOLPH:   Man, I've played nine tournaments in ten weeks, and you come home, and it doesn't even‑‑ there's going to be people out here and everything, but to have people out there supporting you and stuff, Ole Miss stragglers come out every week, and that's awesome, but I've gotten so many texts this week from people that are going to be coming out claiming they're going to be wearing stupid shirts and stuff, and that's awesome. 
After playing this many tournaments this late in the year, that gives you that much more of a boost and can just help you carry on. 

Q.   You played a practice round with Camden and Carlos.   How was that experience? 
JONATHAN RANDOLPH:   Yeah, it's neat.   I wasn't the high school kid playing in this tournament, but I had just finished up my junior year in college and played in it, I guess it was the start of my senior year, and kind of had the same feelings that he was having.   It's neat to‑‑ I'm getting older, I guess, and to play with a guy like Carlos and then also see Camden and just see the talent that he has, it's fun to get out there and play and just see somebody playing golf and just loving it for what it is. 
Like I said, this has been a grind of a stretch for me.   I've never played this much golf, and just to see his eyes wide open and having fun, it's good perspective for the week. 

Q.   What's the state of your game heading into this week? 
JONATHAN RANDOLPH:   Steadily improving.   I played well early in the Web season and then had an injury in my hand, had some tendonitis, and got married and took about five weeks off, and I've just been steadily working back and getting to control the golf ball off the tee, because professional golfers that don't hit the fairways are pretty much like dogs chasing cars or whatever analogy you want. 
It's been a process, and I've been just chipping away at it.   Like I said, I'm very comfortable out here, and to see was the best ball‑striking day I've had in three, four months, so it's encouraging.

Q.   Obviously getting your PGA TOUR card very recently, what does it mean for one of your first events officially on the TOUR being here at home? 
JONATHAN RANDOLPH:   Oh, I mean, you can't put it into words.   The way you go to orientation and you learn the way everything works and all these reshuffles and stuff, and to have a home event as one of the first ones, it couldn't have come any better than that.   This tournament used to be the last one of the year, of the season, and if I would have made the cut in that as a mini‑Tour player it wouldn't have done anything.   I still had to go to the pre‑qualifiers the next year if I didn't have status and stuff.   But this is a really good chance to get my year going in the right direction. 

Q.   Coming over from the Web.com, there's no downtime really on the Web.com TOUR at the end of the year.   Do you feel like that's a pro or a con? 
JONATHAN RANDOLPH:   If you're playing well, it's great.   The courses they play in the final events are really solid golf courses, and you have a really good barometer for how you're playing on the highest level. 
But you know, for me, it's kind of‑‑ I don't really care because I've been trying to get back and improve and stuff.   I mean, I've never played this much golf.   Staying healthy and mentally sharp is probably the toughest thing, but this week has just reenergized me and I'm ready to go. 
MARK STEVENS:   Thanks for your time, Jonathan.   Best of luck this week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT