ROSE BOWL GAME: OHIO STATE VS WASHINGTON
December 29, 2018
Byron Murphy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What do you think about Ohio State?  
BYRON MURPHY: They're great.  They're a great team.  They got good schemes, they got good players, also, a good quarterback, good receivers.  A lot of good players around them, so I just know we're going to have to come out there and play against a really good offense.   
 Q.  What about the Dwayne Haskins, the quarterback?  
BYRON MURPHY: He's a great quarterback, you know?  He checks, he comes in, he can read defenses, stuff like that.  Like I say, he's going to be able to make plays and we know as a defense they like to throw the ball a lot.  Having a quarterback like that that can scramble and put the ball on the money, we have to go out there and play our game.   
 Q.  Have you played a quarterback this year that's similar Dwayne?  
BYRON MURPHY: There is definitely a quarterback that -- I will say probably not the same exact quarterback as him but also can make plays, throw the ball, put the ball on the money, but he's a great quarterback.  We know that coming into this game, we've got to get ready and prepare for him for this week, next week when we play.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
BYRON MURPHY: I think since I first got here, you know, once they, Coach Lake set the standard.  Everyone had to play up to the standard, and come out and compete against each other every single day.  And obviously it shows so in the meeting -- it starts in the meeting room where we always compete against each on or about.  We just talk about our goals, stuff like that, we the best in the country and stuff like that, so when I first got here I could see what the level was, and I know with me coming in here with the older guys I had to keep that level going as I got older and older.   
 Q.  What is your relationship like with Jimmy Lake?  
BYRON MURPHY: He helped me a lot, you know, my game coming in, I have stuff I have to work on to get better.  Obviously he's the best coach I've ever played with and coming in and getting more knowledge of the game, he was the one I could go to.  Go to his meeting room anytime I want and he would sit there and talk through every single play because technique is the biggest thing for him.  But I said the best coach; he's good on and off the field with me.   
 Q.  What about it makes him the best, the way he teaches or relates to you guys?  
BYRON MURPHY: I think it goes both ways.  When he teaches us, we can really connect with what he's saying, also having him have so much experience, that means just learning from the best, like I said, and getting those tips to help our game to another level.   
 Q.  What's that competition like in the secondary?  Young guys obviously wanting a shot, too.  
BYRON MURPHY: The competition is great, because we've got young guys, like you said, Dom, Julius, they're coming out there to compete, too, because, obviously everyone wants to play.  Then, like I said at practice going against each other who can get the most interceptions and stuff like that, who is making the most plays, and in the film room, joking around about it and stuff like that, so having younger guys is really good, because they want to play, so they're getting us better also, as we're trying to help them out.   
 Q.  Of the young corners, who has jumped out?  
BYRON MURPHY: All of them pretty much, they've all been making plays, but Arizona, my guy Dom, I gotta go with my guy Dom, he's been making plays, getting better, learning the defense an stuff like that, but Kyler and Julius also making plays and learning plays quicker than I did when I first got here, but everyone is am coming in making plays, competing against each other.   
 Q.  Now that you've had time to look at them, what stands out about Ohio State?  
BYRON MURPHY: They have good schemes on their offense, the quarterback has good receivers, like we've seen on film, he has good running backs, they've got a good offensive be line.  I think as whole their offensive is very good and I just know we are going to have to come out and play our game.   
 Q.  I know you guys said you like the challenge.  
BYRON MURPHY: Oh yeah.   
 Q.  Ohio State's receivers, what makes 'em so good?  What's going to be the biggest challenge for you guys?  
BYRON MURPHY: Our mind-set is always a passing team.  We want to verses a passing team and going through films, you know, they make a lot of plays.  They have a lot of routes, and a lot of schemes.  Their quarterback can put the ball on the money, so they're very special when it comes to that type of stuff, and I know we've got to stay on top of our receiver throughout the game.   
 Q.  You talked about Jimmy Lake and the competitiveness in the room how much of that comes from him?  I know you guys have said --  
BYRON MURPHY: Yeah.   
 Q.  -- he's a super competitive guy?  
BYRON MURPHY: He's super competitive.  When I first got here it was all about competing.  He asked me a question and I was like, I gotta win, and he has to win.  He's a great guy, and coming in joking around a lot, but he always takes stuff serious.  So when it's time to play around, it's time to play around, but when it's time to lock in, it's time to lock in and he makes sure we are ready to go.   
 Q.  How much of that personality of his trickles down?  
BYRON MURPHY: I think that's how everyone is connected.  Everyone is competing against each other and then you have a coach that's competitive, so he's going to make sure we're all competing against each other and getting better every single game.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
BYRON MURPHY: In high school, you know, he came, he talked -- came and talked to me a couple of times, but when I noticed that he came to one of my basketball games, and I felt the connection on and off the field.  Off the field he was a great guy, like I said, we was talking through a lot of stuff, all the stuff that was going on when I was in high school, but I just felt the connection once we started talking and he came down to Arizona and took a visit.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
BYRON MURPHY: He doesn't want that, but no, I haven't, not yet, but he doesn't want that.   
 Q.  For the senior class, sending the guys out the right way, how do you look at this game?  
BYRON MURPHY: For me, personally, I know I gotta go out there and play.  It's gotta be one of the best games I've played this year.  This is the Rose Bowl.  You're playing against a really good team, and that puts a chip on our shoulder.  I can see everyone is ready.  Like I said, these seniors right here, you always gotta make sure your seniors go out right, and me being a younger guy, I'm going to play my hardest for them.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
BYRON MURPHY: I feel like you know, it's the same thing.  We gotta prepare at practice.  It starts with practice, going through all the things we're going through, going through the calls we're going through, and making plays.  In the WSU game, we came out there in the snow.  I didn't know what was going on, it was my first time, but going out there and making sure our defensive players are on their roles, going through their assignments, techniques and all that type of stuff, so going through the game plan and sticking with the script that our coaches give us and just go out there and play.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
BYRON MURPHY: I've really seen a lot of hard work, coming in and learning all new defense is pretty hard.  When I first got here it was pretty hard for me but like you said, they're progressing throughout the whole season, getting better and better every day, competing, and I feel like the younger guys are really stepping it up and like you said, they will probably be able to play or not play.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
BYRON MURPHY: I haven't, I haven't.  I want to, yeah, while I'm out here, I want to for sure, I gotta go see what that is.   
 Q.  You guys are going up against one of the premiere quarterbacks in the country in Dwayne Haskins.  Are you exited for that challenge?  
BYRON MURPHY: I'm a competitive guy, I want to go against the best.  I want to compete against the best, but having a quarterback like that and knowing what he can do really puts a chip on our shoulder, because as a defense we want a team that can throw the ball, a team that goes out there and throws the ball a lot, but I feel like the DB room, we all got a chip on our shoulder.  We want to go out there and compete against the best quarterback and go out there and make plays.   
 Q.  Is there an element in pride in the play here, representing the PAC 12 out here on the west coast playing in the Rose Bowl?  
BYRON MURPHY: PAC 12 I feel like it's the best league, you know, other people -- everyone has their own opinions, but I feel like this game right here is going to show everyone in the country what we can do not just as Washington but also the PAC 12, where we stand and everything like that.   
 Q.  Ohio State is obviously a really good offense, but people that maybe haven't been able to see you guys play, how old you describe your defensive style of play?  
BYRON MURPHY: Like I said, I feel like they haven't seen a defense like ours.  I feel like we are the best defense in the country, also the best coaches and players around.  As a defense, I feel like we are the best in the country, so we're going on out there and put on a fight and show everyone what we can do.   
 Q.  You guys were at the Beat Bowl last night and you went to Disneyland earlier.  What has this been like for you?  
BYRON MURPHY: The first thing I'm happy for is the sun; I miss the sun all the time.  I'm from Arizona, so I was missing the sun, but the experience has been great.  A lot of good people, meet a lot of good people.  The comedy show was the craziest thing I've been to.  I've never been to a comedy show, but Disneyland was great.  The whole experience was great with our team and our coaches and getting that connection.   
 Q.  Ohio State receivers basically have two sets of starters.  How difficult is that when they can rotate guys in, one group gets tired, the other group comes in?  
BYRON MURPHY: It's very difficult because we're going to stay in the game the whole time, knowing they have that much depth we got to make sure when we practice our conditioning level is right and their subbing in and out we just have to make sure we are doing what we need to do, and obviously that's a good little impact for them, also.   
 Q.  Any of those guys stand out to you?  
BYRON MURPHY: I think they all stand out.  Their slots make a lot of good plays, their outside receivers make good plays, but I feel their slots make the best plays throughout the whole year.   
 Q.  How much pressure is going to be on your nickel or inside corner to defend the slot guys?  They throw to those guys a lot.  
BYRON MURPHY: Like I said, they got a good scheme.  Once we get on our game plan and keep going through practice, we're going to be feel more comfortable with what we're doing, and our nickels and corners have to be on top of their game.   
 Q.  When you knew you were going to play Ohio State with Haskins and the receivers, did that get you pumped up?  
BYRON MURPHY: I was hyped because I know they like to throw the ball, so as a DB, my mind-set is a team that throws the ball I've got to play my best.  They're going to play competitive, they're going to test me, so I gotta make sure I'm ready to go.   
 Q.  Why are you guys so good in the secondary?  
BYRON MURPHY: I feel like it all starts at practice, having Coach Lake.  Coach Lake is very competitive.  He gets our mind set right every single morning for practice, but I think we work really hard, as a group we're all connected, do stuff outside of the film room, outside of the stadium, stuff like that.  I feel like that's the reason.   
 Q.  You watch Ohio State during the year?  
BYRON MURPHY: During the year no, but once we found out we play Ohio State, I started watching film.   
 Q.  What were your impressions?  
BYRON MURPHY: They're awesome.  Their quarterback, like everyone says, he's great.  He's a great quarterback, and he has good receivers around him, I'm so he's going to put the ball on the money.   
 Q.  What do you guys feel like you have to do?  
BYRON MURPHY: We gotta make plays, get turnovers.  Turnovers are the biggest thing we've been talking about this whole year, going out, making plays, getting off the field after third downs.   
 Q.  I was asking Jake Browning about you guys as a secondary and he was talking about as a quarterback sometimes in you're throwing on guys who maybe they'll knock the ball down that doesn't scare you as much, but if you're throwing on guys who are going to make picks, then you've got to worry.  He was talking about that's what you guys do.  When the ball is in the air, getting turnovers, making plays how good are you guys at that?  
BYRON MURPHY: I feel like it all goes to ball skill.  We all gotta go high point the ball.  Coach Lake, before every single practice we do drills just for that.  Going up, getting the ball, not letting the ball come to you.  So when we go out there against Jake, a great quarterback, he's going to put the ball there, too, so we've gotta make sure our technique is right when we go up there to make those plays.   
 Q.  Do you feel like you guys have done a good job of -- Ohio State guys have talked about not letting stuff get over your head.  Is that a big thing in the secondary, not letting yourself get beat deep?  
BYRON MURPHY: Getting beat deep is something we can't allow.  Like you said, just going out there, we gotta make sure we play out game.  They're gonna make plays.  Everyone is gonna make plays.  We gotta make sure we make more plays than they make.   
 Q.  You played Gardner Minshew and some guys, but is Haskins the best quarterback you've faced?  In your career, who else compares?  
BYRON MURPHY: There is a lot of good quarterbacks.  WSU's quarterback was really good, Auburn's quarterback was really good, but we're going to see if he's the best quarterback.  He's probably one of the best quarterbacks we're going to face, but come Tuesday we will see what he's about.   
 Q.  Did you go against him at camps and stuff?  
BYRON MURPHY: He was at the opening with me.  He was at the opening 7-on-7 camp.   
 Q.  You got him there, right?  
BYRON MURPHY: Yeah.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
BYRON MURPHY: I feel like WSU because, you know, they pass the ball a lot, and as a corner you can see a lot of schemes throughout their thing, but they kinda stay to the same type of offense, same routes, stuff like that, but they had a great quarterback, like I said.  When I played them the first time, Falk was a good quarterback and they had good receivers, but I feel like they have the best offense because they pass the ball so much we had to show everyone we could make those plays.   
 Q.  Coach Lake talked about, he said a bunch of times that since he was recruiting you, he's been telling anybody who would listen you've got the best ball skills of anyone he's seen.  Did you work on that?  Did it come naturally?  
BYRON MURPHY: I think some of it came naturally, and I've also been working on it my whole life, and I think basketball helped, too.  After basketball practice, going to football and the difference between basketball and football, working on two different things, but the ball skill came naturally.  Obviously I've been working on it for a very long time, but I think it came naturally growing up and stuff like that.   
 Q.  I'm sure playing receiver helped.  
BYRON MURPHY: Playing receiver in high school, that helped a lot, too.   
 Q.  Did you give thought to playing receiver?  
BYRON MURPHY: I asked Coach P., I wanted to play both sides.  I wanted to do both, but I think DB was the main position I was the best at.   
 Q.  What did Coach P. say?  
BYRON MURPHY: He laughed and he was like, yeah, we got you, but I know he's not going to do that.   
 Q.  So no play drawn up for you in this game?  
BYRON MURPHY: Not yet.  I hope so, though, Coach P. I hope so!   
 Q.  Why was Washington the best place for you?  
BYRON MURPHY: Going through the recruiting process I just feel like the connection between the coaches was the best for me and also -- getting away from home, learning new things, getting a better experience outside of Arizona, and I feel like Coach P. and Coach Lake were someone I could look up to, on and off the field, someone that I could talk to about all my stuff that I was going through, but I just feel like Coach Lake was the main one I could connect with throughout the whole process.   
 Q.  Urban Meyer and Coach Peterson have the best two winning percentages in college football.  Why is Coach Peterson -- you've played for him, you know him better than most people, but how would you describe why he's so successful?  
BYRON MURPHY: I think the biggest thing why he's successful is because inside the locker room we have a lot of standards in there.  He makes sure all that's done.  A lot of meetings, a lot of meetings about our whole brotherhood, a lot of meetings outside of football for everyone around the community and stuff like that, but he's just a great guy on and off the field, like I said, making sure we're all doing good off the field, and that connections comes while we're in the locker room.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT