NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: MAPLE LEAFS v HURRICANES
May 23, 2002
Sami Kapanen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  What's more impressive, your streak or this win? 
 
SAMI KAPANEN:   I think it's been impressive streak for me.  I didn't want to have that many games without goals, but at this point of the year, the only thing that matters is winning the game.  So at this point, I think it was more impressive.  It was good timing with my goal.  We had a 1-0 lead and looked like we were sitting back a little bit.  We didn't have too many chances, so we have to be ready for the next game.  
 
Q.  Talk about Irbe, how much of a factor was he? 
 
SAMI KAPANEN:   He was a tough player in this game.  When you are having a little hard time, you have to rely on the goalie, and Archie was beautiful today. 
 
Q.  The streak ended and it helps the team win.  How good is that?
 
SAMI KAPANEN:   It's pretty good.  But we've got a lot of work to do.  We've got to regroup for the next game.  I keep saying that these guys are not going to give up, so we have to focus on it, enjoy tonight the win, and obviously it's going to be a tough battle to win.  
 
Q.  You're one win away from the Stanley Cup finals.  Has that sunk in? 
 
SAMI KAPANEN:   We don't want to look at it that way.  We just want to walk in and take it one game at a time.  That's the way we've been doing it, playing one game.  Actually, one period at a time, and then the next one.  I don't think it matters.  We've just got to go out there and win the next game. 
 
Q.  They outshot you, but they didn't get a lot of second chances or rebounds. 
 
SAMI KAPANEN:   I think Archie was doing a good job controlling the rebounds.  There were not that many of those.  Obviously, had a couple of second chances, and Archie was on top of his game today and he was making some huge saves for us.  Sometimes, that's the way you win the games, when you are not playing that well, it's the goalies that bail you out.  They had some chances on the power play, but for the most part the guys were blocking shots.  That's what it takes to win the game, blocking shots, making all of the plays like that.  The guys were doing a good job.  
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT