U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 5, 1996
Bill Tindall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
BILL TINDALL:  It feels great.  Certainly knew I was going to find some bogeys.  I only found two of them, I think. Did I have two? 
 
BILL TINDALL:  That is up to you fellows.  I am not crazy about talking about myself.  I had a stretch of holes, starting played the first three holes very good, the fourth hole hit my driver to the fairway in the rough had a tough little chip; chipped it about six inches.  Next hole in the trees, hit the tree coming out pushed my drive and then I really chunked my pitch shot from about 40 yards.  I absolutely chunked it the way my wife hits them once in a while.  Then I had a tough chip from about 70 feet; hit that up about three feet; saved my bogey.  Next hole, I hit miserable sand wedge over the green in the long rough; got that about a foot from the hole out of the rough. 
 

Q.  Saved par?
 
BILL TINDALL:  Yes.  And 8 I just missed the green just barely pin-high to the right about a club length right of the green; got that up-and-down.  9:  I was in the -- layed up on my second shot in the rough, teed up high; hit my sand wedge; trying to hit high sand wedge over the bunker; went in the one bunker.  Hit it out of the bunker two feet; made that for par.  I had a stretch of holes there, I could have had 40. 
 
BILL TINDALL:  Yeah, back 9.  Nice wedge on 10 about eight feet made that for birdie.  And par 5, I hit 6-iron, on about 40 feet from the hole, 2-putted.  Bad tee shot on 14; had to hit -- had to aim it to the right of the green.  That tree was in my way.  And missed the green; didn't get that up-and-down.  15:  I got it up-and-down from short of the green. Hit it in the rough there off the tee again.  Not a lot of fairways today.  16:  I missed just missed an 8-footer for birdie.  Hit real nice shot in there.  17:  Tee shot almost hit the pin; rolled about 25 feet by and 2-putted that.  And 18, I drove it, bad drive in the rough and got it short of the green and chipped up about three feet and made that. 
 

Q.  Yeah, how many saves is that? 
 
BILL TINDALL:  Don't know.  It was a lot. 
 
BILL TINDALL:  I am going to have a nice pairing tomorrow.  Going to be good experience, real nice experience for me to play with some -- I am sure, a very good pairing, and I just try to stay relaxed and see how I can do.  I know nobody expects me to do well. 
 
BILL TINDALL:  No one expects me to hold up.  We will see what happens.  Just try and hit the greens and make the short putts and if I keep doing that, I will be all right. 
 

Q.  Talk about just the last night, the phone calls you might have gotten, response from friends, what that was like; did you get anything like that?
 
BILL TINDALL:  I talked to my son.  My son called me, and talked to my father guys at the pro shop and they were just all real happy for me, and they are just happy I am playing in the tournament and to do well is just a bonus. 
 

Q.  Were you more nervous after a great round like that for today?
 
BILL TINDALL:  I felt better today than I did yesterday.  I was more relaxed when I teed off today than I was when I teed off yesterday.  That doesn't figure.  I hope that will continue to be the trend tomorrow.  
 
BILL TINDALL:  Right.  I broke 81, so it was out of the way. 
 

Q.  You said no one is expecting you to hold up after these two rounds.  How are you expecting to hold up?  Do you believe now that you can?
 
BILL TINDALL:  I feel really good about my game, but my game certainly is not the level of these other fellows.  I mean, if it was, I wouldn't be giving lessons and working everyday, so I mean, I am not the level of a player Hale Irwin or these other guys are.  I understand that. 
 

Q.  But for one weekend?
 
BILL TINDALL:  You never know, do you?  You never know.  I think that it is unlikely to expect me to contend. 
 

Q.  Do you have any common golfing history with any of these big names, anywhere along the road in the last 30 years of your golfing life that you might have crossed paths with them?
 
BILL TINDALL:  Oh, well, none of the -- see, I don't think Hale Irwin would know me if I was having lunch with him, I don't think he would know me.  I am sure he doesn't.  And he probably would say the same thing.  That is fine.  Maybe I will meet him tomorrow.  I did meet him once.  Kermit Zarley has been a lifetime friend with me; grew up in Seattle; played junior golf together.  Don Bies, he has always been a close  friend.  Some other fellows.  One year I played the Tour a long time ago there are acquaintances, but not real close friends. 
 

Q.  Just a followup with that, what would happen if, let us say, you were to be paired with somebody like Jack Nicklaus or somebody like that, would it make you --
 
BILL TINDALL:  That would be great, wouldn't it?  I'd love it regardless of what happens.  I was fortunate to get paired with Arnold Palmer one day in Seattle in a tournament and it was a rain delay.  They finished their round.  I didn't know who I was going to play with until 15 minutes until we teed off.  They said you are playing with Arnold Palmer.  I paid my $5,000 to play with him.  If I played with Jack Nicklaus tomorrow, I don't know how much it would cost me or it might not cost me, but I suspect it would be worth it. 
 
BILL TINDALL:  I was afraid I was going to open up something there.  It was around 1967.  Nine months.  I got good  -- sick and tired of it. 
 
BILL TINDALL:  It was memorable, but not good memories.  No, it was good memories.  I am a better player now than I was then. 
 

Q.  From those nine months of playing, was there anything  memorable on the positive side that happened, any anecdotes, anything from your, I don't want to call it, your 15 minutes of fame, but anything from that time that you can recollect
 
BILL TINDALL:  No, just the friends I made, that is all. Thanks, fellow, it would be a thrill to see you tomorrow. 
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT