NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: BRUINS v CANUCKS
June 7, 2011
Michael Ryder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Questions for Michael Ryder.   
 MICHAEL RYDER: Feeling good, that's about it.   
  
  Q. The suspension for Rome's four games, does that surprise you? Do you think that's just?   
 MICHAEL RYDER: Well, it was a league decision that just came out just then. I guess we heard the same time you guys did. It's their decision, and that's it.   
  
  Q. Are you satisfied?   
 MICHAEL RYDER: Well, you know, Horty is a big part of our team. He's been huge for us all season in the playoffs. We're definitely going to miss him.   
 It's not my call how many games Rome gets or whatever. The league just decided that four was it. Everybody is going to have to deal with that.   
  
  Q. Do you think that hit may have woken a sleeping giant in you guys?   
 MICHAEL RYDER: Well, we want to make sure we went out their and won the game for Horty, you know. We knew that guys have to step it up. He's a big loss for us. He's one of the reasons why we're here. We wanted to make sure we played hard for him and win the game and show him that we have his back.   
  
  Q. (Question regarding the message sent.)   
 MICHAEL RYDER: We didn't want to go down 3-0. It was a huge game for us to get back in the series. We have to make sure tomorrow we go at it the same way and play it the same.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 MICHAEL RYDER: Well, he's the one that had the jacket before and he wasn't there to give it out. We just let him keep it there, you know. It wasn't right for someone else to give it out when he had it the last time.   
 We all talked about it, so it was everybody.   
  
  Q. Do you know if Aaron Rome reached out to Horty at all?   
 MICHAEL RYDER: No, I have no idea.   
  
  Q. (Question about playing in Horton's place.)   
 MICHAEL RYDER: I'm not sure what is going to happen. I played with Krejci before and with Lucic on and off at times.   
 Yeah, I feel comfortable there. I'm not sure what Claude has planned. But if I get put in that position, I'll have to step it up and make sure I help those guys out as much as I can.   
 I'm not Nathan Horton, but I can try to do what I can out there.   
  
  Q. How did you find the ice last night?  
 MICHAEL RYDER: It wasn't bad. It was chippy at times. It gets hot in the arena. I think tomorrow is supposed to be really hot, too. So both teams have to play with it. You just got to make sure you make smart decisions with the puck and keep things simple.   
 Like I said, both teams have to play with it, so you're going to get weird bounces sometimes, pucks hopping over sticks. You have to make sure you stay strong and make smart plays.   
   
    
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT