PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2003
Hank Kuehne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
HANK KUEHNE:   It was a good day.  I'm a little bit drained.  I hit it in the rough and had to get up-and-down and try to save some shots.  I got off to a pretty good start.  I hit a lot of good shots on the front nine and I holed a couple of putts there on 8 and 9. 

Got to the back nine and that's where I struggled a bit.  Really just didn't give myself the opportunity.  I didn't keep the ball in the fairway or get it to where I had an opportunity to get it close to the pin. 

I feel very pleased.  I think the greens have been faster than they have been.  I'm pretty pleased. 

Going around the golf course, I see a lot of pins I saw in the Amateur, so I knew where not to hit it, kind of which side of the hole to keep it on. 


Q.  How were the fans?

HANK KUEHNE:  Going around, the crowd has been great, the people have been great, a lot of support here.  They kind of help pull you along. 


Q.  What happened on 14?

HANK KUEHNE:   I flew it just to the top of the hill and it just trickled over the green.  It was dead.  That was the worst lie I had all day.  I chipped it about 30 feet by.  I had a perfect drive, just kind of one of those things that I wish they had the blower out there to get the rough straight up and down.  It would have been easy, but what can you do. 


Q.  How did you approach today with all of the talk about the rough, to hit driver, to hit iron?

HANK KUEHNE:   I hit driver a lot.  I think I hit driver every hole but one.  I didn't hit driver on 13, the par  5.  Other than that, driver every hole.  The way I look at it, if I make a good golf swing, it's going in the middle of the fairway with a driver anyway.  If I make a good swing with a 2-iron or make a bad swing with a 2-iron, if it's going into the rough, it's going to be to the point where I probably can't get it to the green.  I hit a lot of drivers out there, because with all of the average length and it's still pretty soft, I feel like that's the way for me to play the golf course. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT