FUNAI GOLF CLASSIC AT WALT DISNEY WORLD RESORT
October 22, 2004
Hank Kuehne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Hank, for joining us for a few minutes.  Great round, and it looks like you'll be in pretty good position going into the weekend.
HANK KUEHNE:  Yeah, thanks.  It was fun today.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Talk about the course, the difference between yesterday and today.  It was a different course, but other than that, the wind.
HANK KUEHNE:  It started to lay down.  It started to blow pretty hard when we played the back, and when we turned on like 5 it laid down a little bit.  The fairways are soft, and then the greens over here are a lot firmer than they are over there.  I mean, they're new, they're less than a year old, so they're a lot firmer, but the golf course, you know, the rough seems pretty similar to the other side.  The greens were good, the pin placements were pin placements that you could pretty much get at them.  It was fun today.
Q.  Would you just walk us through the two eagles, the clubs?
HANK KUEHNE:  It was kind of funny because I was a little frustrated out there yesterday because I hit it down the middle on three of the four par 5s and I had a 4- or 5-iron in and I didn't birdie any of them.  Today I started on 10 and 11, and I hit it straight down the middle and I hit 5-iron and I made par.

Then I hit a good drive on 14, had like 230 hole, somewhere in there, and I hit a good 4-iron to about 15 feet just left of the hole and made that one.

Then 1, I hit it just in the left rough, I can't remember exactly how far I had, but I hit 5-iron about five feet and made that one, and then I actually lipped it out on 7 from about 12 feet for eagle there, too.  I really wanted to make that one and get in Freddie's pocket.  It was better to knock it on the green today.
Q.  Are you satisfied with the way you've played this year by and large?  Is 95 on the Money List where you figured you'd be, or are you dissatisfied?
HANK KUEHNE:  No, I haven't really played that well this year at all.  I really struggled with my golf swing the first six months of the year.  I was fortunate enough to be -- I played well enough a few weeks to actually be able to make enough money to still keep my card and do whatever else, but as far as the year as a whole, I haven't -- not very satisfied with the way that I've played.

In the last month and a half it's started to get better, the last few weeks, and my swing is finally starting to fall into place and I'm starting to trust it more on the golf course.  I've been hitting a lot more good shots and playing better.  I'm pleased with where my game is now.  Too bad there's only two weeks left (laughter).
Q.  Scott Hend passed you there for a while on the long drive deal.  Is that something that you rallied to pass him back?  That's the point.  I was just going to ask you, do you even care?
HANK KUEHNE:  No, I don't.  I want to play good golf.  If that means I hit it 260, that means I hit it 260.  Last year I hit pretty much driver on every hole that was a measuring hole.

This year it's been a lot different.  I'm just trying to play the golf course.  I really don't care if it's a driving hole or isn't a driving hole.  I just hit whatever club is the right club to hit off the tee.  If it's driver, they go out there pretty good.  If it's something else, then I really haven't paid that much attention to it this year.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thanks, Hank.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT