CHRYSLER CLASSIC OF GREENSBORO
October 15, 2004
Hank Kuehne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








CHRIS REIMER:  Joined by Hank Kuehne at 8-under for the tournament.  Birdied all the par-5s today
HANK KUEHNE:  No, not all of them.
CHRIS REIMER:  Which one did you miss?
HANK KUEHNE:  2.
CHRIS REIMER:  Got you.  Birdied three of the four par-5s today.  Is that kind of the strategy out here is to take advantage of the par-5s when you get a chance?
HANK KUEHNE:  Yeah, definitely.  The golf course today obviously is playing a lot more difficult.  The pins are got some pretty good pins especially with the way the wind is blowing.  There was a few holes that you got to try to take advantage of.  If you can.  The last 16 and 17 were brutal.
CHRIS REIMER:  Wind is going to kick up this afternoon.  So you got to like where you stand right now.
HANK KUEHNE:  Good.  I hope so.  No, it definitely started to really blow on the back nine.  Especially coming up 16, 17.  It was at the point where it was blowing hard enough where I'm not worried that much about distance, just trajectory.  Getting the ball on the right flight so it will go close to the right distance.  It's playing pretty tough.
CHRIS REIMER:  Take some questions for Hank.
Q.  When you have a lull like this, you got to see how every one does, do you kind of watch the leaderboard or just kind of go practice?
HANK KUEHNE:  No, it's Friday.  The only time you Lee watch the leaderboard is if you're in on Sunday.  Obviously you like to try to put yourself into a decent position, going into Sunday, but it is what it is.  You go out and guys have shot some really low numbers and kind of passed some people, so I just go eat some lunch and then practice and go about my business just like I do every week.
Q.  Obviously the weekend you just kind of keep attacking is that the way you have to look at it?
HANK KUEHNE:  Well, you got to take what the golf course gives you.  We don't really know -- I feel pretty fortunate with the tee times the way they worked out because the golf course, it was pretty soft yesterday in the afternoon there wasn't a lot of wind.  We were able to take advantage of that.  And today to come out and the forecast was supposed to be really cold, wet, and windy.  And it was a little bit breezy, but it wasn't really cold and it wasn't wet.  So I feel pretty good about that.  Especially with the forecast for this afternoon with the wind picking up even more than that now, so.
Q.  You happy with your year?  I mean, how do you look at your year so far?
HANK KUEHNE:  It hasn't been very good.  I really struggled this year.  I played I really fought my swing all year pretty.  And finally the last couple weeks ago a couple months ago I saw a guy that works with Chuck Cook and we started working on some things and then three weeks ago I went out and saw Butch.  And that really helped me out a lot.  I didn't play that well the week after, but I took last week off, went home and practiced and really kind of started to get comfortable with what we were working on.  And felt like I started to -- I just started to feel a little bit more natural.  I'm happy with kind of the way my swing is progressing as of right now hopefully it will keep it on that path.  But as a whole this year has not been -- I'm not satisfied with this year.
Q.  What were you guys working on?
HANK KUEHNE:  Basically just efficiency.  Shoulder turn to your arm swing.  When your shoulders stop turning your arms stop moving and just basically trying to really stay more connected with my lower body.  My hips are so fast my lower body is so fast that my golf swing gets long and I get -- my arms have no chance of catching up to my lower body.  So really a lot of it is just kind of the sequencing there.  That's it.  It's a tough change to get used to.  Golf swing stops six inches or eight inches shorter than it did before, I mean your timing is very difficult to really feel okay with your timing and whatnot.
Q.  It's that much different six to eight inches than it was?
HANK KUEHNE:  Oh, easy.  Easy.  I mean if you actually the club head it might be like a foot and a half.  The club head, but the my arm swing's probably six inches shorter.
Q.  Did you lose distance to gain control, lose any distance?
HANK KUEHNE:  I don't know, it kind of goes the same distance it normally does.  I don't know.  It wouldn't bother me if I did, put it that way.  I wouldn't be upset if I lost some yardage to gain more accuracy.  But it is what it is.  Just sort of whack it and chase it and whack it again.
Q.  Have you worked with Butch a lot?
HANK KUEHNE:  That was the first time I saw him.  That was the first time I went and saw him, so I definitely say I will go back.
Q.  How far did you drive it on 9 today?  Yesterday it was like 365.
HANK KUEHNE:  I don't know.  I had a 5-iron.  I had 3-iron yesterday I had 5-iron today.
Q.  Was it playing different wind wise?
HANK KUEHNE:  It was a little cooler, it was a little -- the wind was pretty similar as far as the direction it was going yesterday, it was just blowing a little bit harder today.  Can I go eat now?
CHRIS REIMER:  Go through your club selection on your birdies and bogeys.  Start with 3.
HANK KUEHNE:  3.  No.  I birdied 4.  Par-3.  I hit 7-iron to about 10 feet and made it.

Next hole I hit down the fairway, I hit sand wedge to about 8 feet and made that one.

Didn't get a birdie until 9.  9 I hit a good drive in the fairway.  A fat 5-iron to the left.  Good chip to about three feet and made birdie.  Four feet maybe.

13, I actually hit a bad tee shot in the rough, laid it up to 95 yards and hit about 12 feet.  Made that one.

Bogey on 14, yeah, that was pitiful.  I hit a bad tee shot up in the lip of the fairway bunker on the right.  Hit it pin high and hit a pretty decent pitch to about four feet and lipped it out.

15, I hit driver down the fairway, 3-iron to about 12 feet and 3-putted.
CHRIS REIMER:  All right.  Good luck.
HANK KUEHNE:  Beautiful.  Thanks.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT