NBA DRAFT 2016
June 23, 2016
Taurean Prince
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: If you'd make an opening statement, feelings about playing for the Jazz.
TAUREAN PRINCE: Oh, man, not only just playing for the Jazz but just blessed for the opportunity at hand and everything I've been through in my life has helped me get to where I am now.  Like everyone says, it doesn't stop here, but for me it really doesn't.  It's just another milestone, and plenty more to reach.
Q. Taurean, to go 12, there were a lot of people that were saying maybe you could go 9, then there was talk you were going to slide.  To actually be a lottery pick and to go in the top 12, what does that mean to you?
TAUREAN PRINCE: Well, I mean, you heard different than I did.  I mean, I thought I was 20-25 range, so I mean, this is -- like I said, it's all overwhelming for me, humbling.  I've just got to work more to show people why I deserve this spot, and I'm going to do what I have to do in order to be somebody in the league.
Q. Taurean, the Hawks prioritized you at the Combine interviewing you and also brought you in for their first workout.  They traded for you; picked you with the pick that they acquired in the Jeff Teague trade.  Did you feel like Atlanta was going to be it the whole time?
TAUREAN PRINCE: Kind of.  Man, those guys are great, straightforward, which I love.  No gray, it's black and white type of guys, and those are the type of guys you need to be behind you, that's going to tell you when you're wrong and let you know when you're right.  I love those guys up there, man.  They brought me up for a second workout so I knew that they were really interested and we were vibing the whole entire time, and I enjoyed every single minute in Atlanta.
Q. What's been your favorite part of the week so far?
TAUREAN PRINCE: Just being able to be here with family.  Besides God, that's who I look to for everything in my life as far as support emotionally, and just being able to bring them out here and enjoy, and also experience the things that I'm experiencing because all this is new to me, just like it's new to them.  For them to help me growing up and to be who I am today, I'm just glad that they're able to experience everything that I am firsthand.
Q. I'm sure today is obviously a big day for you.  What's more nerve-racking, the anticipation leading up to today or now knowing that you're coming to a team and being expected to contribute long-term?
TAUREAN PRINCE: Man, basketball is the fun part.  I think that's what people get twisted up.  Yes, it's okay to have butterflies and be nervous, but that's the easy and the fun part.  The worst part and the hard times are grinding without those who see behind closed doors, but when the lights come on, that's the fun part.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT