THE 147TH OPEN
July 20, 2018
Jovan Rebula
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOVAN REBULA: It wasn't ideal score-wise, but I had my best man on the bag this week.  I just had so much fun, you know.  I mean, the score doesn't really matter for me right now, you know.  For me, I'm just going to put this in the short term memory and just forget about this week score-wise.
But, you know, obviously, playing in the first major as an amateur for the first time is something different, you know, and something -- which is good for me to see personally.  But, you know, I mean, I'm really positive, and this doesn't bother me that much.  You know, so we're just going to carry on.  We're just going to work hard towards the next couple of events.  At the end of the day, it's just an unbelievable experience for me, and I'm very thankful for the experience.  At the end of the day, I just had so much fun being around here and being with family and friends.
Q. What is your mate's name who was caddying for you?
JOVAN REBULA: Angus.  Angus Cole.  We used to travel together playing golf tournaments.  Me and Matt Sully.  So we all kind of travelled together when we were younger, and we're a great bunch of friends.  For me, I don't always get to see these guys.  So every opportunity I can have with them, you know, is really special to me.  Having him on the bag this week was just unbelievable.  It was fun, and I think it was good for him too.
Q. Now the tournament's done for you, what are the nerves like on the 1st tee, especially on Thursday?
JOVAN REBULA: Well, on the 1st tee, it was definitely like any other tournament.  It's very nerve-racking and stuff like that.  I feel like I handled myself well this week with the kind of golf I was playing.  I kept my composure, I feel like, and I just kept a good mentality right through the week, you know.  The result wasn't what we wanted, but, you know, honestly, like, I could see myself playing at this stage one day.  This was just a week where I didn't have my best stuff.  You know, I'm very excited for what the future holds and stuff like that.
But, yeah, like this week doesn't mean much to me right now result-wise, but, I mean, I can see myself one day competing with all these guys, you know.  I honestly felt like my nerves are going to be, you know, much worse playing during the week, but honestly, it wasn't that bad.  It's just I'm really excited for what the future holds.
Q. This is your first major as a player.  Have you ever attended a major as a player before?
JOVAN REBULA: Yeah, this is my first major.  I don't get a lot of opportunities to be able to play in these kinds of things or to even -- coming from South Africa, it's a long travel.  It's always during school holiday or at school time or stuff like that.  So just to feel that atmosphere as a player for the first time is just unbelievable.  I'm just really thankful for the opportunity I got and stuff like that.  So, yeah.
Q. And now what are your plans for the rest of the year playing-wise?
JOVAN REBULA: So I'll be going back home now after this and then going to play U.S. amateur in Pebble Beach, which starts on the 13th.  So I got a lot of hard work that's lying in front of me, and I'm going to go back home, take a couple days off, and then start working on my game.  So it's U.S. amateur and obviously the college circuit, and then when it comes to invites to tournaments, I'm not 100 percent sure what I'm going to be playing in or not, but we'll take that as it comes.  Obviously, looking forward to the next major I've got a spot in.
Yeah, it's just a lot of hard work.
Q. What college are you at?
JOVAN REBULA: Auburn University.  It's in Alabama.
Q. And what are you studying?  How far along are you?
JOVAN REBULA: So I'm in my second year now, and I'm doing an interdisciplinary course between -- interdisciplinary course.  So I'm minoring in business and a minor in sports coaching.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT