BIG 12 CHAMPIONSHIP GAME: TEXAS v COLORADO
December 3, 2005
Mike Brown
Michael Huff
David Thomas
Rodrique Wright
Vince Young
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT










 Q.  Mack, I realized what your focus is, but if you could, what would you like to say for all those who vote for the Heisman? 


 Q.  Vince and Rod, how important was it for you Houston area guys to come in here, and how fired up were you to play in Houston and win the Big 12 title. 



 Q.  Mack, can you address the margin of victory and preparing for this game?  Can you imagine ever having something like this occur? 


 Q.  Mack, can you talk about last year's Rose Bowl, and is it special that you're returning to that spot as opposed to the Fiesta Bowl and Orange Bowl, and David, can you talk about the year Vince has had? 



 Q.  A question for Michael and Rod, talk about that first drive, Colorado, they were able to move the ball on you and getting the turnover to stop that momentum. 



 Q.  Vince, can you talk about what this means winning this for Mack, his first conference championship, and then talk about the goals that you guys had set before the season even started, especially you wanting to come back here to your hometown and getting this done? 


 Q.  Mack, can you guys play much better than you did today? 


 Q.  Mack, after all of the losses to Oklahoma and not winning a conference, do you feel this team has changed the image of yourself and this program? 


 Q.  Mack, as far as once it became obvious how this was going, did you allow yourself any kind of personal reflection? 


 Q.  Vince, did you get yourself back into the Heisman race today? 


 Q.  This is for Michael and Matt, can you talk about the way the secondary can influence both this game in particular and other games?  What are they able to do? 



 Q.  David, can you talk about a potential match-up with USC and the unfinished business? 


 Q.  For Rod and Mike, I know you guys have been big on scoring defense, all season long.  And last week was a disappointment.  Talk about not only how you guys played, but the secondary and the special teams, how important was that to you guys? 


 Q.  Michael, are you guys the best team in the country? 


 Q.  What does it mean going back to the Rose Bowl? 


 Q.  Vince, I know that you said that your enthusiasm for the Heisman, it's not your focus, but if you talked to guys who are voting, you're either one or two on their list.  What is that like for you, and what would you like to say to them if you had the opportunity? 


 Q.  For Mike or Rod, what are your thoughts on the potential meeting with USC and their personnel from the defensive standpoint? 



 Q.  Mack, what is it about Michael Griffin and your team, specifically special team blocking kicks?  It's amazing. 


 Q.  Gary was talking about how they haven't been the same since Iowa State.  Just from watching film, how much difference do you see as far as the way that's gone? 


 Q.  Vince, last year at the Rose Bowl was kind of your coming-out party nationally where people started to really recognize your ability.  Now going back for a chance to play for the national title game, what's your confidence level and what's your swagger like going back there? 


 Q.  Coach Brown, when in this game did you guys go real (inaudible)?  Did you guys really not show a lot that you can show a lot? 



 Q.  Vince, with so much at stake at this game, the Rose Bowl, the Heisman talk, playing in front of Houston, how do you keep yourself from getting too anxious? 


 Q.  Vince, if you can go all the way back to the second touchdown, the play call was a pass to Jamaal Charles, I think 3 yards out wide open.  It looked like maybe Colorado was focusing on a run there, and also Taylor's big kick-off return, did you see that as an opportunity? 



 Q.  Mack, talk about how the perception of your program has changed.  I mean, you guys are now seen as the big, nasty team heading out to the Rose Bowl. 


 Q.  Mack, if you can comment first on Vince's growing legacy with the wins that he's piled up for his career; and two, at this stage, after the game, what thoughts you guys have on the verge of going to the Rose Bowl, maybe winning your first National Championship in 36 years? 


 Q.  The second part was, what you guys are facing now, you're going to the Rose Bowl and getting the chance to play for a National Championship you haven't won in 36 years? 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT