BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 24, 2018
Lasse Jensen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  That's a great start for you.  Give us your thoughts on an opening round 68?  
LASSE JENSEN: Yeah, pretty nice opening round to be honest.  I played some solid stuff out there.  The West Course, it's a tough track if you don't bring your A Game, and I thought the course would probably play a bit firmer but obviously this rain has done it scorable.  If you stay patient and play well, there is a good number out there, and today my game was really solid and I'm happy.   
 Q.  It's been a tough start to the year for you.  What was it today that came together?  Was there one particular thing you were more pleased about?  
LASSE JENSEN: Obviously we get analyzed only on our scores, so when you stay it's been a tough start, for me, it hasn't really been.  I've played really well in Dubai.  I've just had nine holes season day morning where I wasn't sharp, and then you finish 30-something instead of finishing top five or top eight where I was all week.   
So I've never felt like the game was far away, but obviously we get measured every week on is it a 72 or a 64.  It is quite harsh sometimes that that's always the case but obviously on Sunday, that's where they payout the money to the guy with the low score.  It is fair but obviously for me, I'm trying to get away from that and just actually play my game, and then hopefully, over a year, I'll have my good results and I play out here.   
 Q.  The West Course is quite tough.  Is it an enjoyable course to play?  
LASSE JENSEN: I think it is.  I think the new layout and the condition of the course, it has brought up the stand-out of the condition to what this tournament really deserves.  This tournament deserves a strong field and a great golf course, and it now has that.  So congratulations, Wentworth, and whoever has been involved in this.   
 Q.  What would it mean to you to have a good, strong performance in the first Rolex Series Event of the year?  
LASSE JENSEN: That would mean the world.  Last year I played very solid but not in the Rolex Series.  Then you finish further down on the ranking than the guys just having a few good weeks in the Rolex Series.  So the Tour has become a little top-heavy in those Rolex Series, so you just need to really have your chest up and then try and play well in the big events.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT