OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
January 25, 2018
Lasse Jensen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Your thoughts on that 65?  
LASSE JENSEN: Played pretty solid all day, really.  Didn't really get into a lot of trouble.  So stability, that's probably the key.   
 Q.  And when you're going out on a contemplation like this, we know it's typically low scoring, early start on the first day, auto you're not quite sure how it's playing, do you still have to go out there with a super aggressive attitude for this golf course?  
LASSE JENSEN: I think you need to be patient on this golf course because you don't want to get ahead of yourself because it's not an easy golf course.  You've still got to perform and hit the right shot at the right time.   
This morning, it was quite cold.  I was second off in the draw, and the ball was not going fast.  So you also need to adapt during the round.  The temperature gets up.  The ball starts flying a bit longer.  So it's never easy, even though it looks like it sometimes.   
 Q.  Absolutely.  And then this golf course, well, it appears you've got its number because last year was a good performance, tied third for you last time around.  How much do you lean on a result like you've had in the past?  
LASSE JENSEN: Obviously a lot, because there's just some places that you enjoy or the golf course suits your eye.  Some of the tee shots, you look down and they just suit your eye and you're a bit more calm and I think that helps a lot.  So obviously I had a good result here last year and hopefully I can try and beat that.   
 Q.  Your reflection on that opening 65?  
LASSE JENSEN: Well, I'm very please the to get off to a good start here.  It's a big week and I really enjoy playing this golf course, so happy with my first round.   
 Q.  How much do you feed off the good result here last year?  
LASSE JENSEN: It's obviously in the back of your mind that I played well last year, and then hopefully you try and do a copy paste, something like that, if that's possible.  It's nice to get a good start.  There's a lot of golf left but I'm playing well and it feels quite good, the game.   
 Q.  What was the key to your round today?  I know you had a great run around the turn.  What was the key to that?  
LASSE JENSEN: Well, I mean, first of all, you've got to hit the fairways to attack the approaches, and then the next thing is that I hit my approaches quite close.   
So I could make these putts within three to ten feet, ask I think that's important here; that you obviously hit them quite close and give yourself a lot of chances and then stay patient.  That's the key out here.   
 Q.  Was there a particular highlight you enjoyed out of your round today?  
LASSE JENSEN: Well, with eight birdies, there must be like eight highlights.  I think after a sloppy bogey on the second, I hit my third shot very close to the par 5 and made a birdie there to bounce back and that's maybe the highlight there, to not go the other way again and then I move forward, so that was pretty nice.   
 Q.  Give us a sense of conditions out there, they are pretty good for scoring.  
LASSE JENSEN: They are pure now.  They are very, very good.  The golf course is in great condition.  This morning was cold.  The ball didn't go as far.  So you needed to adapt.  The 10th hole was playing quite long and cold, and the ball was a bit damp, wet.  The sun came up and then obviously I got off to a great start, as well, and then as the sun came on, I just built on to that.   
 Q.  How do you adapt to that, to the changing of conditions?  
LASSE JENSEN: I think because you have played for so many years, you feel when the temperature is getting up and you can see the ball travelling further, and so straightaway, your brain just adapts, really.  It's quite natural.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT