NEDBANK GOLF CHALLENGE PRESENTED BY GARY PLAYER
November 11, 2016
Lasse Jensen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Tell us about the albatross.
LASSE JENSEN: I hit a good tee shot down the 14th, and then the thunderstorm came in.  I had 245 metres and we went in, had a bit of lunch, warmed up and then I went out there again.  I just hit a great shot and obviously had a little bit of luck, as well, and it went in.  So fantastic start after that thunderstorm delay.
Q. Overall, happy with the round, or felt like you could have got more out of it?
LASSE JENSEN: I felt during the round, I felt I should have been a little bit better.  But then this albatross, that made a little bit up for the loss from the previous holes.  So I think all in all I'm pretty happy with the result today.
Q. What were conditions like today?  Guys have been talking about the wind swirling; is it tough out there.
LASSE JENSEN: It is very, very tricky.  You see a lot of guys backing off the shot, pick another club.  The wind is swirling; one minute it's into you, and the next minute, it's downwind.  That's making the golf course a bit tricky and tougher.  It's not easy out there.  You really need to hit some quality golf shots.
Q. Are you happy, though, where the way your game is going and it's trending well enough and you're playing well enough now?
LASSE JENSEN: I feel like my game is in a really good frame at the moment.  Just got to stay calm and see the shots and keep my rhythm and then I should be fine.
Q. Probably got to ask you distance to the hole and club, the albatross.
LASSE JENSEN: I used a 3-iron.  I had 229 front edge.  Pin was 16 on.  So overall, 245 metres, and my 3-iron started in the middle of green, and maybe just had a little touch of fade.  Pitched perfect front edge and it just released down.
It went actually, it felt like three or four, five seconds before the crowd went nuts.  There was this guy in a red polo, he just jumped so high and forward, it was very funny.
Q. Most players would struggle to get their rhythm after a delay like that.  You come out and hit a shot like that, didn't bother you, the delays or anything?
LASSE JENSEN: Yes and no, I would say.  Now, I hit the perfect shot, and then you feel like that you came out there and was in a nice state of mind.
Next time you come out there after the delay, you pull it down in the bunker, then you're going to blame the delay, you're going to blame the lunch was cold and whatever, you know.  That's how we are.  We always find that one potato that's not boiled.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT