BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 25, 2015
Lasse Jensen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   One of your lowest rounds out here on The European Tour.   How does that sound?   
LASSE JENSEN:   That sounds great.   I really enjoyed it today.   
   
 Q.   What worked particularly well for you out there?   
LASSE JENSEN:   I had a lot of patience really.   I had just a slow start.   I was trying just to do fairways and greens and I managed to putt very well today.   So I think that was the key.   
   
 Q.   You say patience but on that low‑scoring golf course, you can be aggressive.   How do you get into right?   
LASSE JENSEN:   I think this golf course has a mixture of a few strong holes and as you say, a few holes that you can attack, and I managed to do that.   
   
 Q.   This is your second full season out here on The European Tour.   What do you think you've learnt this time around that maybe you were inexperienced with before?   
LASSE JENSEN:   Maybe a bit more mature as a player, and obviously I'm not a rookie anymore but you still feel like a rookie your second year.   I know the golf course now.   This is the second time I've played it now, so that makes it a bit easier, as well, that I have been here before.   It's not my first time.   That certainly helps a lot.  
It's my second time that I'm here for the BMW International Open.   Last time I played here, I made my small notes, so I know the course this year and I think that's a little bit of an advantage.   
   
 Q.   What's the plan for tomorrow?  
LASSE JENSEN:   Well, it's to shoot 7‑under again I guess.   That must be the goal (laughing).  
   
 Q.   What is your take on shooting a 65 for 7‑under today?   
LASSE JENSEN:   I'm very happy and pleased.   I think it's a great start for this event.   You're always a bit excited when you come into this part of the season.   There's a few big events coming up, so hopefully my game is getting in shape and I can build on from this round.  
   
 Q.   I hope I don't phrase this too harshly, but where has this come from, because we haven't seen you for awhile.   
LASSE JENSEN:   I didn't play well for a couple of months.   I found a little bit of my game in Austria I was up there Top‑10 before the last day and then I fell back to tied 32nd.   But there were a lot of good stuff in it.   I felt there it was a good week and my game is improving and I feel that's why there was a 65 today.   
Today I just felt comfortable out there, and I was not in a rush or anything.   It was just a lovely day on the golf course.  
   
 Q.   I heard you saying that you've learnt from your experience playing Eichenried; you've got notes.  
LASSE JENSEN:   Well, this is my second year on Tour, so last time I was here, that was my first year, and it's always tough for a rookie to come out to new events, new golf courses, new hotels, etc.   
So for me to come back here for the second time‑‑ you are a bit more relaxed because you know where to hit the ball, where were the pins previous years.   So it just makes it a bit more easy when you have played out here before.   
   
 Q.   And presumably with a score like this, it means that things went to plan; did you hit the ball in the right places.   
LASSE JENSEN:   I did, yeah.   I think me and my caddie had a really good game plan.   There's a good mixture of strong and easy holes on this golf course.   So you can't attack the pin on every hole, so you need to have a good tactic I think.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT