U.S. OPEN
September 7, 1995
Byron Black
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  The serve and the wind, just too much?
 
BYRON BLACK:  Basically, yeah.  I was pretty much overpowered out there.  Really windy.  I haven't played in that sort of swirling wind before and I think Pete was used to that and he serves a lot better than I do and I think I was really struggling every time on my serve. 
 

Q.  Does playing Pete kind of spoil your whole tournament?  Is it a bit overwhelming?
 
BYRON BLACK:  A little bit, yeah.  Took the wind out of my sails.  You know, in the other matches I felt really confident and I was building confidence as I went along.  Today, he really blew me off the court.  I really didn't have a weapon that could hurt him today. So it is kind of a downer. 
 

Q.  You had played him a couple of times?
 
BYRON BLACK:  Right. 
 

Q.  Did you have real specific stuff you wanted  to try and do?
 
BYRON BLACK:  I have done better -- I did better today, than I have done before.  He pretty much killed me at Wimbledon two years ago on the grass and last year in Antwerp, on a very fast court, he also overpowered me, so I try to stick with him a little today.  I was able to break his serve at least a couple of times.  That gave me a little more confidence. 
 

Q.  Anything specific you were hoping to do; hoping for against him today?
 
BYRON BLACK:  Well, like I said, I wanted to really stick with him.  I know he has got one of the best serves in the game; probably the best, so it is heavy.  He must have aced me, I don't know how many times today, but his most effective serve goes out wide to my forehand on the deuce side and I was really struggling to see that.  I didn't make any of them back.  That was the one that was really hurting me a lot. 
 

Q.  Anything he does well, that we don't know about; I mean, serve -- he is obviously known for, anything that is less publicized about his game?
 
BYRON BLACK:  Just mentally, he is very stable, you know.  Nothing seems to phase him too much.  You can break his serve and he still comes back  firing.  He has got a lot of confidence.  He knows he is one of the top players. 
 

Q.  Have you ever played against a guy who played a better single set than the third set he just played?
 
BYRON BLACK:  It is hard to say, because I really didn't play well in the third.  I mean, he was feeling very confident, obviously, taking the first two -- we were both struggling a bit in the beginning with the wind.  Then, in the third, he really started rolling and he just built up momentum. 
 

Q.  As a tennis professional is it enjoyable to see him play as long as he is not beating up on you? Do you like watching somebody like that play?
 
BYRON BLACK:  Sure.  When he is at the top of his game, it is pretty to watch.  He is so smooth.  He has got ---every one of his strokes is just about perfect. 
 

Q.  How about today, was there anything enjoyable at all?
 
BYRON BLACK:  Not really.  No, I mean, obviously I was happy to be out there.  I had felt I deserved to be there and it is nice to -- I mean, to lose to a player of Pete's caliber. 
 

Q.  He had, you know, problems in the first set, I guess he was broken at Love.  I am just curious, did  you regard him as vulnerable at that point or was it simply that you both were having problems and --
 
BYRON BLACK:  A bit of both.  We both were struggling a little with the wind and I did break him which gave me a bit of confidence, but I was struggling on my serve as well. 
 

Q.  You said about every one of his shots is perfect.  Does that make him the player who might be the closest to perfection?
 
BYRON BLACK:  If you could say that, yeah. You know, just his serve, basically, is the big weapon.  It is tough to get around that, you know, I really didn't have an answer to that today.  My strength is my return and when I can't use my strength, I basically don't have any weapons. 
 

Q.  Can you assess -- I know today certainly did not turn out the way you would have liked, but you still have to be somewhat happy with the way the tournament went overall.  Can you assess the entire tournament?
 
BYRON BLACK:  Well, it has been a long summer.  I have been working on a lot of things and, you know, it is nice for it all to come down -- all to come together at this moment, you know, at the U.S. Open.  That is what I was hoping to peak at, and, you  know, it is one of my goals.  It was one of my goals to get inside the top 50 during the summer and it is nice to achieve that.  But more importantly, it is nice to be able to beat, you know, a couple of top 10 players and really know that I can do it.  That is the main thing. 
 

Q.  Is there a different sense, you know, playing like you say top players like Stich, is there a different sense when you have to play Sampras, I mean, that he is on somehow a different level?
 
BYRON BLACK:  The only difference, I would say is, you know, obviously Pete has got a little better serve.  He is just very stable, Pete, he doesn't get flustered.  He is very calm.  Stich can -- he can be pretty much up and down.  That is the difference that I saw. 
 

Q.  Were your folks here during the tournament?
 
BYRON BLACK:  No. 
 

Q.  Is this on television back home?
 
BYRON BLACK:  No.  No. 
 

Q.  How will they see it if they will see it?
 
BYRON BLACK:  I am sure one of my friends would have taped it and they will eventually get a tape. 
 

Q.  Do you know what the reaction back home would  be?
 
BYRON BLACK:  I really have tried to, you know, stay focused and not talk to too many people.  I am going to give my parents a call tomorrow.  I am going to actually go home tomorrow, so, you know, it is about a two-day trip back home, so it is a long way. They have never actually been to the states before, my parents. 
 

Q.  Did you call your parents at all?
 
BYRON BLACK:  No. You know, maybe I am strange that way, but I just -- I don't want anything to change.  I just wanted to keep going and I always call them after I finish a tournament. 
 

Q.  Has somebody been calling?
 
BYRON BLACK:  Yeah, sure, they have been in touch. 
 

Q.  They know what is going on?
 
BYRON BLACK:  For sure. 
 

Q.  They figure the longer they don't hear from you, the better?
 
BYRON BLACK:  Yeah, basically.  Or the worse.... 
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT