DAVIS CUP - USA vs ZIMBABWE
February 4, 2000
Byron Black
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Byron, well playing. At one stage you were two points from losing in the first set. 
 
 BYRON BLACK: From, what? Sorry. 
 
Q. You were two points from losing in the first set. Suddenly, it turned around. Did
you feel him tiring and yourself firming, just what went on?
 
 BYRON BLACK: I think it came down to a bit of experience, Bud. I think I played about
70 matches now, so I think that Chris, over the last couple months, has been playing
better tennis, that's for sure. But I think it's the home difference. That's what made the
difference today. You know, I've been preparing for this match mentally for three, four
months now, since the draw came out. It's one of the biggest sporting events in the
country, maybe that we'll ever have. So I just wanted to give everything today. And once I
had got the first hit, it was touch-and-go, you're right, the break points I had my
chances. Once I got that first set, I thought I had the momentum the rest of the way. 
 
Q. Can you explain what it's like being on the receiving end of that crowd?
 
 BYRON BLACK: Yeah, I feel sorry for him. It's tough; his first match and he has to play
in Zimbabwe, you know, with all those fans against him. It's tough. You know, I've been on
the receiving end before myself, in Morocco, and I didn't handle the situation very well
so I know exactly what he's going through. 
 
Q. How do you feel having won?
 
 BYRON BLACK: Ecstatic. Obviously. You know, this is one of my best matches I think I've
ever played at home, and, you know, I play for the crowd and for my team. It's just great
to be out there. 
 
Q. Are you going to play doubles tomorrow?
 
 BYRON BLACK: It's a good question. The way I feel right now, I'd like to. But I think
we got to stick to the game plan and go with what we've nominated. 
 
Q. Why?
 
 BYRON BLACK: I think in the past I've been a little tired the next day. And so, you
know, most big countries - like you guys - I mean there's no one playing all three matches
on your team, so. I've tried to do it in the past and I've come up a little short,
especially against the better teams. I can do it against some of the other zones maybe,
Zone 1, Zone 2 countries. But I think against a country like US, I don't know if I can
pick myself up for all three days. I thought we saw that last time against Australia, and
who else did we lose to? Chile. I was a little fatigued on the second day. I think I'll
just get ready and prepare for Sunday. At least we know it's going to Sunday right now.
That's for sure. 
 
Q. Gavin, it's 1-1 at the end of the first day. If you had woken up this morning and
had known that this would be the outcome, you'd be reasonably satisfied?
 
 CAPTAIN GAVIN SINEY: Yeah. Throughout the week we've been asked what our plans are, and
we were hoping to be maybe 1-All at the end of the first day. I think tomorrow's another
day. There's a lot of tennis left. We're very happy. I think Byron played a brilliant
match today. He didn't really give Chris any chances, maybe just one or two. Then he
fought and held on. Tomorrow's another day. We'll see if we can win the doubles. If we can
go to Sunday 2-1 up, it will be brilliant. 
 
Q. Byron, just on that first set, that was pretty tight all the way. How crucial was it
for you? It obviously gave you a big lift to win that tiebreak.
 
 BYRON BLACK: Yeah, I just knew I had to try and get on top of Chris. I knew the crowd
would take over, and I would get the momentum, which is exactly what happened. Yeah, I'm
just so excited to be out there. I'm really pumped up, and I just enjoyed it, the whole
match. It's probably the most perfect match mentally and physically I've played here in
Zimbabwe - probably anywhere - considering the pressure. 
 
Q. The crowd's reaction at the end obviously showed how they felt as well.
 
 BYRON BLACK: Yeah, I give Mac a lot of respect as a competitor. Any time you can beat
Mac, whether he's the coach or anyone, it gives me a lot of confidence, you know. You
know, I feel like there's a lot of big guys behind the US Team. You've got Brad Gilbert on
the side, Andre and John, so, you know, I really respect all those players. So, you know,
it's nice to get a victory out there. 
 
Q. What would it mean to the country of Zimbabwe to beat the United States?
 
 BYRON BLACK: I haven't really even thought about that yet. I'm just happy to win my
match today. I think the crowd was pretty happy, and it's a long way to go. You know, I
haven't even thought about that. You know, we are just trying to win the doubles tomorrow.
Obviously, that would be ecstatic. I mean they would be going crazy. 
 
Q. In the second set, you're ahead 3-0 and it looks like you can go 4-0, then you hit
about three or four bad shots.
 
 BYRON BLACK: Right. 
 
Q. Was the pressure you suddenly realizing --
 
 BYRON BLACK: On his serve, right? 
 
Q. Yes.
 
 BYRON BLACK: On his serve I was trying to play loose and obviously get a second break.
But I'm just glad -- I don't think I lost my serve the whole match. I think I played
tight, when I was down a few breakpoints, came up with big serves. I thought I played my
service games well and I knew on his service games I just had to play loose and
aggressive, and I thought I'd have the edge. 
 
Q. Did it surprise you a little to see all the fans and the clown running out on the
court at you?
 
 BYRON BLACK: No. I guess you haven't been here before. (Laughter.) Usually I'm at the
bottom of the pile and they're all jumping on top and it's tough to breathe. No, they
handled it pretty well today, to tell you the truth. Gets a lot worse than that. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT