KIA CLASSIC
March 28, 2021
Amy Olson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Amy, bogey-free 68.  That's a good way to finish, and a tune up for ANA.  Tell us your thoughts on the round today.
 AMY OLSON:   Yeah, I played really solid today.  Ball striking was great and actually hit a lot of really good putts that burned the edge, so can always be lower.
 But very pleased with how I played this weekend.
 Q. Going into ANA I would think this has got to be a good tune up.  You've been in contention there, at a bunch of majors lately.  Where do you feel your game is?
 AMY OLSON:   Yeah, I'm really happy with where my game is.  You know, Ron and I have continued to fine tune my swing.  I have a new putter in the bag this week and I'm going to keep that going I think next week.
 So just always tweaking.  Just feels like it's always nerve ending journey, but I'm pleased with where I am right now.
 Q. What's the new putter?
 AMY OLSON:   It's a Ping, black Ping.  It's a mallet style.  Yeah, I went and got fitted last week in Phoenix and Scott had it built up for me Monday, and so I put it in the bag and I loved it right way.
 It's definitely good to have some confidence going into next week.
 Q. What have you been working on with Ron?
 AMY OLSON:   We have a drill that we do with my swing with where we tie my shoulders to keep my arms connected to my body.  So I've been doing quite a bit of that.
 As far as putting, it's really just trying to like in my routine just make sure that I don't have kind of a hesitation before I take the putter back and just not letting too much time elapse once I visualized what I'm going to do.
 Q. Just mentally what was it like out there trying to chase Inbee down and just your thoughts on how she's pulled away from everyone?
 AMY OLSON:   Yeah, I did not really think much about Inbee.  She was kind of doing her own thing and playing her own golf course.  She obviously played phenomenal this week, you know, but it was just fun for me.  Like this was the best comeback I've ever had.  I was 6-over on Friday with about 12 holes to go, and I birdied six holes coming in.
 Then played well yesterday and today.
 So from being tied for like 120th on Friday to finishing whatever I end up finishing today, definitely the best comeback I've ever had.
 Q. What was the self-talk that turned it around?
 AMY OLSON:   You know, Ron and I were talking about that today.  I'm like, I don't know, like I definitely got mad and I'm like, I don't know if that's a good way for me to play or something.
 I zeroed into something with my swing going through impact, what I really wanted to feel.  You know, it's just golf.  I was frustrated the first day because I think I shot 3-over and I'm like, I'm not worried about anything.  I played great and I shot 3-over.  What just happened?
 So this course will do this sometimes where it just doesn't really reward sometimes what you think you should get out of it.  But it does for Inbee apparently.  (Laughter.)
 Q. How many rounds do you think you've played this year at the tournament course at Dinah Shore?
 AMY OLSON:   Honestly, probably three.
 Q. Oh, okay.
 AMY OLSON:   Yeah, not a ton.  And then, yeah, I haven't spent a ton of time out there.  I've spent more time just at my course where I practice at the Palms.
 Q. The palms, got it.
 AMY OLSON:   Uh-huh.
 Q. One last question.  It's about your teammate out there Taneka.  With her story that came out in February as part of Black History Month and now Women's History Month, what does she mean to your game to have her out there supporting you?
 AMY OLSON:   Yeah, she's such a steady influence on me.  You know, you could never tell how I'm playing by looking at her.  I got pretty hot on Friday after I tripled hole 14 and she just like absorbs it and just keeps moving.
 And then when I'm playing great she's steady as can be.  That's just so helpful to have in your teammate.  But then at the same time, like on 14 again today I'm like, What is -- what is the wind doing?  And she just gave me straight up this is what you got to do, and just gave me so much more confidence walking into the shot.
 So she and I obviously are a great team and I'm super thankful to have her out there with me.
 Q. What's the game plan as you head to the desert?  You have been close before.
 AMY OLSON:   Yeah, just approach it like any other tournament.  Not over practice.  I think that's the biggest thing.
 But I just want it go through my routine that I do the beginning of the week and let the chips fall where they may.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT