ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS LADIES SCOTTISH OPEN
August 15, 2020
Amy Olson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Take me through the third round.  A solid day, still in contention?
 AMY OLSON:   Yeah, started out a little bit rough.  Just didn't take advantage of a couple holes that I thought I should have early.  But the highlight obviously was the eagle on hole 13.  Yeah, it was just really fun.
 I hit a perfect drive right where I wanted to, and we had not played that tee box in the practise round, so it was a bit of a guessing game.  Worked out great.  Made my putt.  That was a lot of fun.
 It was honestly like I'm a little bit frustrated with my three-putt on the last hole but for the most part, again, I just stayed patient, and in the hunt.
 Q. I feel like I've been saying this, but this week it seems you don't have to shoot the lowest.  You just have to be patient out there.  Is that what you feel like is testing you?
 AMY OLSON:   Well, you have to remember that this is a National Open.  They want it tough.  They don't want scores super low, and they have set the course up accordingly.
 So it is really about hitting greens and saving par when you can.  And when you get a chance to make birdie, take advantage.
 Q. Good test for next week?  Two different courses, but still?
 AMY OLSON:   Yeah, I don't know Troon but I've heard incredible things.  I'm really looking forward to it, but I do always like to come over here and play the week before the British I can and just get in the mind-set of links golf.
 Q. When you get the eagle, what did that do for your confidence and mental game after that rougher start?
 AMY OLSON:   It's just a boost.  It's not something that you plan or count on by any stretch of the imagination.  It's just literally, it's a bonus, and puts a little extra pep in your step..
 Q. You've been playing some great golf lately.  What is it going to take, do you think, for someone to come out on top of the leaderboard?
 AMY OLSON:   Again, it's going to be patient on some holes, and then a few of the par 5s and a few of the holes where you do wedge in and make birdies -- anything can happen.  So you just go out there and play your round and stay patient and you never know.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT