LPGA DRIVE ON CHAMPIONSHIP
August 1, 2020
Amy Olson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  Q. All right, here with Amy Olson.  Take us through what Inverness threw at you today.
 AMY OLSON:   It was very wet.  That's the first thing I'll say.  It was definitely softer than yesterday.  Really had to change kind of your mindset off the tee.  Your shots just weren't going to roll out, so I hit a lot more drivers than 3-woods off the tee.
 And then approach shots you could throw darts, whereas yesterday everything was releasing.  So that part was actually really nice.
 But overall, it was just soggy.
 Q. So, I mean, we haven't played an LPGA Tour event in so long, and now you come here to a major championship style golf course, throw in a little bit of rain.  How good is it to be back despite the weather delay, despite the rain?
 AMY OLSON:   Yeah, it is.  I started out my day a little rocky.  I realized I didn't have a rain cover for my golf bag and my umbrella was broken.  It's been five months since looked at either of those things, and major fail starting out the day.
 So I borrowed a rain cover from Sarah Burnham because she played this morning, and I had to track down a random umbrella.  So I think it's a good test run for Scotland coming up, and I'll be ready then.
 Q. I was going to say, we definitely had to wait around in the rain for a little bit.  Some people were saying since you're standing in rain it's more physical, but is it more physical or mental to recharge and refocus after a 45 minute delay like we had?
 AMY OLSON:   Yeah, fortunately with it not being cold the delay didn't really bother me as far as physically.  I think the mental part is maybe a little bit more of the struggle.  But it is always hard to just stop in the middle of your round and sit down.  We're not used to doing that.
 But it wasn't long enough.  Fortunately we weren't sitting down for two hours, so I was able to kind of just stay in it.
 Q. We haven't had rain at an event in a while.  When you were practicing at home did you ever play through rain?
 AMY OLSON:   Honestly, I didn't.  We had enough great days that I kind of picked the sunshine days, so this is definitely a new one for me recently.
 Q. You were also mic'd up with your groupmates over there.  How do you think that went?
 AMY OLSON:   Yeah, well, it was really quiet.  I think we were all really intense, we were all thinking a lot.  You know, we got -- we were rushed a little bit kind of on the back nine needing to keep up with the group in front of us, so there wasn't a lot of conversation, to be honest.
 It was kind of fun, and I definitely had to watch what I said.  (Laughter.)
 Q. There is rain in the forecast for tomorrow.  What can you take away from what you learned playing in the rain today into the final round tomorrow?
 AMY OLSON:   Yeah, the course conditions I think will be similar.  It will just be a lot softer.  I definitely kept notes on what I hit off the tees and whether that was good or if I wanted to do something different.
 And then coming out today I was really just trying to pay attention to what the greens were doing, because yesterday they released like crazy.  Today you just didn't have to plan on that.  So I think tomorrow will be similar to today.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT