THE EVIAN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 26, 2019
Amy Olson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. So this was a good round for you.  It's always nice to end with a birdie.
AMY OLSON: Yeah.
Q. But just to see your name jumping up the leaderboard.
AMY OLSON: Yeah.  Just nice to make some birdies and bounce back.  I had a couple bogeys out there, so always good to see some putts ball.  Seemed like if I missed, other than a couple them, I was missing in the right spots to where I could kind of salvage it, and then threw some darts.
Always fun.
Q. Did you get good vibes coming back here, mixed feelings?
AMY OLSON: A little bit of mixed feelings, I guess.  Obviously I played well last year, but also kind of I guess a little bit of just excitement to get the tournament started and move on.
Golf teaches you to move forward, and this is kind of part of that for me right now.
Q. When do you think you moved on from this one?
AMY OLSON: You know, I always say after a missed cut it takes me about 45 minutes to just settle down.  That one took me a good two days.  I'm not going to say it still doesn't hurt.  I would still love to go back and change things.  You can't, and that's just part golf.
Just nice to be here again and playing well.
Q. If you're in the same position again on Sunday afternoon, things completely different now as a par-5?
AMY OLSON: Well it depends how they set it up.  Just because they change the number doesn't necessarily change anything.  You know, they moved the tee up today so it was actually very similar to how it played last year.
So just depends, but can't think about it.
Q. Do you like the change to the summer?
AMY OLSON: Yes.  Very much so.  It's been absolutely gorgeous the last two days.  Honestly on the hot side, no breeze for the most part.  It's been hot, but I like it.  Hopefully we get lucky with the weather this weekend.
Q. Yeah, fingers crossed.
AMY OLSON: Yeah.
Q. When you look at the board, do you like your position chasing a little bit?
AMY OLSON: Yeah, I don't know what it'll end up being at the end of the day.  The greens are rolling good.  They get bumpy in the afternoon, but any time you're kind of in the hunt that's a great position.
Q. Is your husband here?  Anybody here?
AMY OLSON: No, no.  Solo this week.
Q. Is he recruiting or something?
AMY OLSON: Fall camp starts August 1st so they're in the office getting ready for their really busy time that's coming up.
Yeah, it actually really works out good for me to come over to Europe for three weeks when he's just getting crazy busy.
Q. Playing the Scottish, too?
AMY OLSON: Uh-huh, yes.
Q. Where is the Scottish being played this time?
AMY OLSON: Christina?
Q. Renaissance.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT