HSBC WOMEN'S WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
March 2, 2019
Amy Olson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Long day but you're still up there.  Can you talk about how you found the round today?  
AMY OLSON: Yeah, I was struggling a little bit with some of my cut shots, pulling them a little bit left, which just got me in a couple tough spots right away.   
So I kind of had to manage that on the fly a little bit and just make sure if I was going to hit that cut that I had space on the left.  But yeah, I fought back really well.  Made some birdies which was good.   
It wasn't playing easy out there, so honestly I'm just pleased with hanging in there and just fighting through it.  It wasn't my best day, but salvaged it.   
 Q.  How do you keep yourself on an even keel, like you're going into the day leading and then you kind of turn it around in such a positive way; do you think that will leave you well placed for tomorrow?  
AMY OLSON: Yeah, I think adversity any time you face adversity, it's just an opportunity to learn from it and push through.  Nobody gets through a tournament without making a bogey and it's really how you bounce back from it.  It's not about avoiding it.   
Just trying to keep that mind-set and staying positive, staying in my process.  Those are really important keys for me.   
 Q.  Can you talk a little about what happens on the front nine?  It was a double-bogey?  
AMY OLSON: Yeah, there was a pin on the right edge of the green downhill, and usually when the pin is on the right edge, I love to hit a cut into that.   
So I was really seeing that shot shape, and I was -- I ended up pulling it and just hitting it a little bit left, and there's a tree there.  The wind just died.  The wind didn't push it toward the pin and it caught up in the trees and went in the hazard.  It was a tough up-and-down, so I didn't make my up-and-down.   
It's frustrating starting kind of what double-bogey pretty early in the round.  Fortunately bounced back pretty quickly with a birdie on the next hole, and then caught a really tough lie on hole 5.  Ended up plugging in the bunker.  Sometimes it seems the days where you're not quite hitting it right is the days where you get the bad breaks, as well, and it was just one of those days.   
Usually everybody has one of those in a tournament, so I'm just going to go re-set and hopefully tomorrow it will all go my way.   
 Q.  Are you going to go and work on anything now or just go put your feet up?  
AMY OLSON: Yeah, I need to do a couple things on the range and a couple things on the putting green.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT