HSBC WOMEN'S WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
March 1, 2019
Amy Olson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Amy, great round today.  Tell us how you got off to a great start and a little bit about your round?  
AMY OLSON: Yeah, I hit the ball really, really good today.  Gave myself a ton of birdie opportunities on the front, and honestly, I just -- I couldn't read the greens out there today.  I don't know if the pins were just in tricky spots but I gave up a lot of opportunities on the front nine.   
The back nine is playing really tough, and just stayed patient with it.  A couple putts kind of fell at the end, but just overall, kind of a steady day.   
 Q.  Were conditions a little bit harder than yesterday?  
AMY OLSON: Yeah, I would say the course setup was a lot harder.  The pins were just a lot more difficult and the wind picked up, especially on the back nine.   
 Q.  And like two good rounds, have you played in the previous three tournaments or have you played in the last two?  
AMY OLSON: Last two.   
 Q.  Have you felt that these two rounds are brewing?  Have you been really happy with your game?  
AMY OLSON: Yeah, I had a Top-10 my first tournament in Australia and I had two good, really solid rounds in Thailand.  It's there.  It's just a matter of -- there's four rounds.  There's a lot of golf left, so just staying patient.   
 Q.  Did you do anything over Christmas to get ready for the season that was different from last year?  
AMY OLSON: Just put the clubs away for about six weeks.  It's always good.  I'm from North Dakota, so I'm used to putting the clubs away from the off-season and just kind of getting mentally ready and getting some rest, and that always is kind of a good strategy for me.   
 Q.  How was it playing at the top of the leaderboard in a tournament like this, what would it mean to you to win?  
AMY OLSON: It's a lot of fun, but it's Friday.  So it's just a lot of fun to make some birdies.  You know, there were certain pins that I just didn't go for, and you just have to play smart out here because there's going to be some, there's just going to be some tough days and today I just stayed patient.  Yeah, it was a lot of fun.   
 Q.  A lot of people say one of the keys is not being too aggressive because of how fast the greens are and run-offs.  Is that quite natural for you or do you prefer to attack it?  
AMY OLSON: It kind of depends on the day.  Today I was hitting it really well, so I like to go for it on those kind of days.  But I feel like I stayed within myself and kind of played smart golf.  So that's really important.   
 Q.  You said you didn't make any birdies on the front nine but you did have an eagle.  Take us through that?  
AMY OLSON: Yeah, it was -- the tee was up on hole five today.  I had not played that tee before, so I had to walk it off and kind of figure out my strategy on the fly and hit a perfect drive.  Kind of threaded between the water and the bunker.  Hit a great 5-iron up there to about 20 feet and made the birdie putt -- or the eagle putt.  That was my second eagle of the tournament, which always helps the score.   
 Q.  And then on the back nine, you made a -- when you finally made a birdie, you were like --  
AMY OLSON: I've seen so many lip-out and they were good putts, too, and they just weren't falling.  So you know, I tried to stay patient, but there was a little bit of relief and, okay, there is a hole there.   
 Q.  And of course, you mentioned playing in Thailand.  There was all the controversy and all that.  You are on social media.  Saw your response.  Was your reaction to that?  Disappointing?  
AMY OLSON: Honestly there was a lot of support and a lot of positive.  I think everyone who was involved, it was a really clear case.  We didn't do anything wrong, so there was really no issue.   
It was great to come here, Monday, reset, and Tuesday, assess the game and move on to a new week.   
 Q.  It's obvious that you have reset.  How do you keep your focus?  
AMY OLSON: Same as you do every week.  You just have to stick to your game plan.  Tuesday is about assessing what went wrong last week, making a few adjustments.  Wednesday is seeing the course again, and Thursday, you just kind of trust what you've got.   
 Q.  In relation to that incident, do you feel it was a bit of a release that you went out on social media to explain yourself and all that?  
AMY OLSON: Yeah, for me, I think it was good for me to be able to be heard, have my voice heard, and you know, because there were a lot of voices out there.   
For me, it was just important to be able to say it and to move on.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT