THE EVIAN CHAMPIONSHIP
September 16, 2018
Amy Olson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Well that was one emotional day for you.  On top of the leaderboard on your own for most of it.  Talk about your emotions right now.
AMY OLSON: I honestly had no idea where I was until I was in the rough and kind of needed to make the decision to go for it or not.  I asked Nathan, Where am I at?  He said I was ahead by one, so I really felt like I needed to try to get it on the green there.
I hit an awesome cut 8-iron; landed it right where I needed to be.  That was a great shot.  I was aggressive with my putt; a little too aggressive obviously.  Obviously it's really -- it's disappointing to finish like that, but I had a great week.  I have so many positive things to take away from it.
I'm very pleased.  This is my best finish I believe in a major, so that's always a positive.
Q. You're normally not much of a leaderboard watcher?
AMY OLSON: No, but it was very intentional to not watch it.
Q. How were the nerves today?  You've been playing such wonderful golf all week.  This is the final round of a major; you're two strokes ahead going into the final round.  How did it feel through that front nine and then beyond the turn?
AMY OLSON: I actually felt very comfortable.  I had a little nerves on the first tee.  Hit a great dive.  That obviously helps.  Made a bogey early and was just focused on coming back from that.
Made a great birdie on 3.
From that point I was actually pretty steady.  Like I said, I had no idea where I was.  I think that probably helped.  This isn't a course where you have to make a lot of risk/reward decisions, so there was really no point in knowing where I was.
So I don't think I felt the roller coaster that maybe people watching did.  Yeah, obviously disappointed to finish the way I did, but honestly I hit every shot, I committed to every shot, I did everything I could, and double bogeys happen.
Q. Talking of roller coasters, Angela playing in the group behind, you eagle, double, birdie, narrowly misses a birdie putt on 18.
AMY OLSON: Wow.  I had no idea.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT