GAINBRIDGE LPGA
February 26, 2021
Amy Olson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Amy, what a great second round here at Lake Nona.  What worked well today for you?
 AMY OLSON:   Yeah, I started really slow today.  I had a bogey early and then just a ton of pars, and then having the eagle on 9 right before I made the turn kind of I think gave me a little bit of energy.
 Yeah, I just hit a really solid drive down there, a hybrid to about 12 feet, and then rolled the putt in.  But then I started giving myself a lot of opportunities today.  I am not sure what my stats were as far as greens in regulation, but I hit a ton of greens it seemed like.
 And then I gave myself chances and rolled a couple of them in.
 Q. What did you work on coming up to this week?  Maybe golf physically or mentally.
 AMY OLSON:   Yeah, I was out with my coach in California exceptional we were really just continuing to work on my swing.  I kind of have the tendency to like now slide forward to the ball, which is great, because my tendency four years was to hang back.  So we've overdone it.
 But, yeah, making sure I stay really stable behind the ball and then a swing to a good finish.
 Q. Do you think that's something that you looked forward to seeing here on the golf course this week, whether or not your game was able to play in the tournament?
 AMY OLSON:   Yeah, I mean, it's always kind of a test when you're working on things.  You know, does it hold up, is it something you can play with.  There are some swing thoughts you can play with and others you need to leave on the range.
 It's simple enough that I'm kind of just picking the finish that I want to get to based on my shot, and, yeah, it's been working well so far.
 Q. A lot of players seem to be hovering around minus 4, 3.  What do you think is a score that you wouldn't be surprised to see this weekend?
 AMY OLSON:   I mean, a lot is going to depend on how they set up the course and if they firm it up a little bit.  They had some tricky pins out there today actually, and so I was aiming for the middle of the green quite a bit, and if you roll one in, great.
 You could get aggressive and post a -- I mean, like Lydia yesterday -- 7-under.  I think you're going to see a lot more 3- and 4-unders.
 Q. I don't know if you talked about this earlier because I was setting up the camera, but just your round in general, being able to punctuate the middle of the round with that eagle.  Just take us through that nice eagle on No. 9, and I know you have a little story with it, too.
 AMY OLSON:   Well, I hit a really good drive off the tee.  For whatever reason it sets up where I want to hit it a little further left off the tee than I should, and today I picked a line and trusted it and it got all the way to the bottom of the hill.
 I had 204 yards to the front of the green, little downwind.  Pulled my hybrid and landed about a yard short; rolled up to about 12 feet and then rolled it in for an eagle.
 Then I saw two bald eagles and two baby bald eagles in a nest.  I think it was on 16's tee, or maybe 15's tee.  In a nest above, so started singing the National Anthem, of course.
 Q. And then you see it on 16, you then you had a birdie on 16, birdie on 17.  Just overall what's it like to be able to finish the round with the two of those strong holes, especially the closer?
 AMY OLSON:   Yeah, it's really helpful.  Honestly I just felt like today was really kind of blah.  I was hitting a lot of the greens but I wasn't capitalizing on anything, and so it definitely helps to see a couple putts go in.  Gives you a little bit of energy I think going into the weekend.
 Q. Final question is so many girls look up to you and March and National Women's History Month.  Who did you look up to when you were growing up maybe outside of golf and outside of your, a political figure or a celebrity?
 AMY OLSON:   I guess I always looked up to Tim Tebow and the way he lived out his faith and spoke about it, not in an preachy way but just what God has done for him.  I always really enjoyed following his career in college and the NFL, so I would say that's somebody I looked up to.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT