CAMBIA PORTLAND CLASSIC
September 19, 2020
Amy Olson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. Here with Amy Olson, who just shot a bogey-free round of 68.  Amy, you're bogey-free so far.  This course seems to be agreeing with you.  How are you feeling right now?
AMY OLSON:   Yeah, you had to bring that up, didn't you?
No, it's been good.  I had a couple really good par saves today to keep the streak going.  I kind of figured something out after the first day last week.  My coach was out there with me, and I'm still working on it, still trying to get comfortable with it, but overall really reduced my misses, and that's been really key for me this week.
Q. Do you mind telling us what that is that you're working on?
AMY OLSON:   I got a little closer to the ball so that the plane got a little bit steeper versus so much around and behind me.  That was kind of just causing some issues and some left and right misses that I wasn't liking.
Q. You've been so close to the top of the leaderboard so much lately.  Currently tied for the lead as we head to the second wave today.  What do you take from all these past so-close moments as you look to try to finally get that breakthrough win?
AMY OLSON:   Yeah, I love being in contention.  It's so fun.  It's what we play for, what we practice for.  So the experience has definitely been just super positive and I take -- I mean, I take a lot confidence out of the fact that I have been if not in this position on Sunday, but, you know, throughout the week.
And my game is there.  I can compete.  I just -- the biggest thing is just to stay in the moment and stay in your process and enjoy it.
Q. One final question.  We woke up this morning to beautifully clear air out here.  What has this week been like for you first starting out the week pretty much stuck in our rooms, and now we have a beautiful classic Portland day for us?
AMY OLSON:   Yeah, it's amazing how quickly it can change, right?  I would've never guessed sitting in my hotel room on Tuesday that we were going to see sunshine.
It was definitely a bit challenging mentally for me early this week, especially with making some changes at the end of last week and really wanting to get on the range and work on them and engrain them.
So I was doing some swings in my hotel room, which is not the same, but it's better than nothing, just trying to embrace those feels even if it's not in real time.
And so far it's been working pretty well.  I'm going to go to the range this afternoon and see if I can tighten things up a bit.  I was missing a few more fairways on the back nine than I wanted to, but I'm definitely on the right track.
Q. On the right track right up at the top of the leaderboard.  We'll see you tomorrow.
AMY OLSON:   Thanks, Christina.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT