SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY ACER
October 2, 2020
Amy Olson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Nothing like a bogey-free day out there.  What was working so well in round two?
 AMY OLSON:   I struck the ball really well today.  I think I hit a lot of greens.  I f haven't actually looked at my stats yet, but I just felt like it was really consistent, not a lot of stress.
 Made a couple putts coming in, could have made a few more, but I just really struck the ball well.
 Q. I know you said yesterday that you struggled a little bit on the back nine.  What did you do to improve to get through the last couple holes?
 AMY OLSON:   The wind died down and I think that helped me.  The conditions on our back nine were really good and I was giving myself opportunities.  I didn't make it on like -- let's see, gave myself a good chance on 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, finally made one on 15, and had a really good tee putt on 16.
 That just kind of kept the momentum going.  Had a great chance on 17 and had a good up and down for birdie on 18.
 Yeah, giving myself good opportunities and the greens are rolling good.  A lot of the time in the afternoon they'll get bumpy and I didn't have too many that I felt like because of the greens I missed, so trying to take advantage.
 Q. What is there to take away into this weekend and try to shoot up the leaderboard?
 AMY OLSON:   More of the same.  I've just been kind of grooving in some feels on my swing, and I'm going to go to the range and just make sure I'm doing the same thing, and hopefully tomorrow when I show up it's just that much more natural.
 Q. I know it's a little late.  The lights are kind of going down the sun is setting earlier and earlier.  Do you keep practicing, or are one of those people to keep on practicing, are you waiting for the flood lights, or do you get dinner and go to bed?
 AMY OLSON:   Yeah, I don't practice a ton after rounds usually just because I have some things I'm working on with my coach and I try not to do anything mechanical before the round; I save that for after.
 So I'm just going to do that so I don't have to it tomorrow morning.
 Q. Blue from head to tow, was that planned today?
 AMY OLSON:   I just a packed a lot of stuff that's red, white, and blue for the next few weeks up until election time.  Sunday it will be red, white, and blue.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT