SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY ACER
October 1, 2020
Amy Olson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Take me through that first round there.  I feel like a lot of people are trying to capitalize on a beautiful weather day like today.
 AMY OLSON:   Yeah, especially the morning group.  We had good greens.  Generally they get a little bumpy in the afternoon, so trying to capitalize.
 I started really strong.  I didn't play super well on the back nine, but enough putts fell to kind of hang in there.
 Pleased with the start.
 Q. I think it was five birdies in the opening nine.
 AMY OLSON:   In the first ten holes, because I birdied one at the turn, so it was five of the first nine, yeah.
 Q. What does that do as you're coming through -- I know you said the closing holes, a lot of pars out there -- but still being able to finish strong?
 AMY OLSON:   Yeah, it's just good to get off to a good start obviously.  This is -- this can be a challenging course when the wind picks up, so having the wind low, and I think all day it'll stay low, but especially in the morning you just have to take advantage.
 Q. Because of COVID this tournament is usually in June.  Got the U.S. Women's Open battling with this tournament.  Definitely some difficult and different conditions out there.  When you first got here, what did you think and how have you been able to adapt?
 AMY OLSON:   First thing I noticed was the grandstand.  With the grandstand gone you have this beautiful view of the water.  So that was probably the first thing.
 The rough is a little bit thinner.  The fescue isn't quite as long and thick as it usually is.
 Main thing is the greens are soft, so you can really hold the greens and attack pins.  You'll definitely see some low scores this week.
 Q. When you were off this past week after a nice display in Portland, did you work on anything?  Was it nice to have that break, or are you looking for more of a continuation to build momentum?
 AMY OLSON:   Yeah, I'm still working on stuff in my swing and in my stroke right now, so I kind of just used that as really good chance to get some work in.
 It was probably the last nice week I'll have in North Dakota before it gets really cold, so I capitalized.  Yeah, I'm working on some stuff.  I've been sending video to my coach almost every single day here still.  We're on the right track.  It's just a matter of the making it natural and not thinking about it.
 But you have to think about it in order for that progression to happen.  It's just a matter of time.
 Q. What would you qualify as a nice week in North Dakota?
 AMY OLSON:   Oh, it was like highs right around 70 and like no wind.
 Q. So this?
 AMY OLSON:   No, this is exactly what it was.  And like the trees are turning so it's red and yellow and it's super pretty.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT