NBA DRAFT 2017
June 22, 2017
Bam Adebayo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Could you start out with an opening statement about what you'll bring to the Heat, please.  
BAM ADEBAYO: You know, I bring athleticism.  I bring defense.  I bring energy.   
 Q.  Bam, going to South Beach, going to Pat Riley, Erik Spoelstra, Hassan Whiteside, what do you think about the team and the environment?  
BAM ADEBAYO: It's going to be incredible.  It's going to be fun.  I'm a rookie, but I'm looking forward to it.  Having Hassan Whiteside on my side, it's a plus for me.  I feel like we can get every rebound, we get more stops.  You know, we bring a lot of energy.   
 Q.  How familiar are you with the Miami Heat organization?  Have you worked out with them or spoken with any of them before you were drafted here tonight?  
BAM ADEBAYO: You know, when I went to work out, I spoke to Pat Riley.  But other than that, they seem real cool.  They seemed really interested in me, and I seemed real interested in them.  I bring a smile to everybody, and I bring a lot of energy.   
 Q.  Bam, you'll get to enjoy a warmer winter than you had in Louisville.  When Jonathan Isaac was here I did ask him when he was drafted by Orlando, how he felt about not having to pay any state income tax, and he goes, yeah, I thought about that.  I was curious if that had crossed your mind or your agent's mind.  
BAM ADEBAYO: Yeah, we've thought about it.   
 Q.  So did you study accounting at all at Kentucky?  
BAM ADEBAYO: I actually majored in communications.   
 Q.  After starting off bad, Miami finished the season real strong.  How excited are you to be going to a good team?  
BAM ADEBAYO: Just like we did at Kentucky, everybody thought we were good, everybody thought we were going to be good.  So just building with the guys, getting to know them and just getting in the gym with them.   
 Q.  What's the most important thing you learned from Coach Cal off the court?  
BAM ADEBAYO: You know, he taught me how to be a better man.  You know, when I got there, I was a young boy, but you know, after a season I became a man.  So he made us grow up fast.  He held us accountable.   
 Q.  I wanted to talk to you about what you're wearing tonight and how you chose it.  You seem to like the three-piece suit type of a thing.  
BAM ADEBAYO: The three-piece suit, I give all thanks to Jhoanna, Alba Legacy.  I just told her my favorite colors was navy blue, and then I got this suit.   
 Q.  Who do you pattern yourself after fashion size in the league?  
BAM ADEBAYO: You know, I kind of just dress honestly.  There's nobody I need to dress like.  If I like it, I like it.   
 Q.  Coach Cal is known for being a sharp businessman.  I was curious if he told the Kentucky players who were going to be eligible for this draft things to do and don't when it comes to business issues, choosing agents, et cetera.  
BAM ADEBAYO: You know, he just told us be careful.  We were always in the room, he just said, "Be careful or how you do things because everybody is watching and you don't want to get hurt."   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT