NBA FINALS: LAKERS VS. HEAT
October 5, 2020
Bam Adebayo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Can you update us on how the neck is feeling?  We saw you were on the court for a few minutes yesterday a couple hours before the game.  Where do you think you're at right now in terms of pain and in terms of maybe a timetable for a possible return?
BAM ADEBAYO:   I'm getting better.  It's up to the coaching staff -- well, not the coaching staff, but the medical staff.  I'm trying to get back as quickly as possible.  They're just trying to make sure I'm safe and I'm ready to play.  It's really day-to-day.  When they say I'm ready to play, I'll be out there.
But yeah, this sucks sitting on the sideline, if basically that's what you wanted to know.
Q. Have you been told that it is or is not a possibility to play in Game 4?
BAM ADEBAYO:   I haven't. But like I said, I'm day-to-day.  Tomorrow I could play; tomorrow they might tell me no.  I don't know yet.  I'm just trying to do everything I can necessary to just be prepared for when I do get to play.
Q. Have they told you it's the kind of injury where if you play it can get worse, or is it a matter of it's the kind of injury where it's just limiting to you if you were to get back on the court?
BAM ADEBAYO:   I feel like any injury can get worse. They haven't said it could get worse, but they just want me to be safe.  I feel like any injury, like I said earlier, could get worse.  They just want to make sure this injury doesn't get worse. They want to make sure I'm back to what I was before I got injured, or close to.
Q. Is this the same injury as we heard about, the shoulder, or is this something completely different?  Can you take us through this injury?  When did this injury happen?
BAM ADEBAYO:   In Game 1 of the Finals.  That's when it happened.  This injury has nothing to do with my other injury in the Celtics series, the Conference Finals series.
Q. I think you've only missed one game in two years.  Just for you personally, could you put into perspective what it's been like to miss time now, of all times?
BAM ADEBAYO:   It's difficult.  Like you said, crazy fact, I've only missed one game since my rookie season.  I don't like missing games.  If you're wondering if I'm really injured, then there you go, because I've only missed one game.  I've played through bruises.  I've played through getting beat up.  It's one of those things where it's like, I make it to my first Finals and it's like, bro -- we dream of things like that.
It's been difficult for me mentally because it hurts me that I can't be out there and help my team.  Just trying to collect more wins and be on the floor.
Q. Has it been harder in any regard because you've got another guy in Goran who's going through something similar now?  Obviously Jimmy did a lot of work with your teammates last night, but they're all missing both of you guys now.
BAM ADEBAYO:   Yeah, but at the end of the day, we know next man up.  That's what I like about this team. Everybody is prepared, and everybody is built for those big moments.  Me and Goran are big components of the team, but at the end of the day, you never know what can happen.  Nobody knew I was going to have an injury like this or Goran was going to do that in the same game.  Everybody is next man up.
Q. How is the range of motion in the neck?  Is that what you're kind of fighting through?  Can you give us an update of physically what the challenges are with your injury?
BAM ADEBAYO:   It's more of like soreness.  They're just trying to make sure any -- because it's, like you said, like a neck strain.  It's near your neck, which is near your brain, so it's more serious than like tweaking an ankle.  They're just being careful with me and just making sure I'm 100 percent.
Q. Considering that you're day-to-day, however much the team can extend the series with you out, I guess every day is what matters.  What was your impression or reaction to seeing how well Jimmy played last night?  And did Jimmy give you and Goran any personal message after that performance?
BAM ADEBAYO:   He's our max player.  We expect him to do max-player things.  I've always liked Jimmy's game.  But seeing it up front and being his teammate, it's crazy to watch because of how much work he puts in behind the scenes that nobody knows about.  A lot of times, not even a lot of our teammates know because he's so locked in to his craft.  He gets up early mornings and goes to shoot late nights.  A lot of people don't see him.  And he doesn't come out of his room, obviously, because he's in there making Big Face Coffee. [Laughing]
But it's not shocking to me that he had a 40-point triple-double.  That doesn't shock me.  I'm just proud of him because he really put the team on his back and really wanted that win.  When you've got a guy like that in your corner, I'll go to battle with anybody like that.
Q. Spo has said you really want to be out there.  You've been trying to make your point.  What have those conversations been like?  Have you tried to get a say of getting out there, despite having to listen to the medical side of things?
BAM ADEBAYO:   Yeah, because I don't miss games.  That's not me.  That's not how I'm built.  I want to play.  I've always been like that.  I've always got the thrill of just putting on that uniform and going out there and playing.  To be in the Finals and the medical staff is telling me I can't play and Spo is telling me I can't play, it sucks.  But I understand.  I've got to take care of my health. Health is wealth at the end of the day.
They're making sure I'm getting completely healthy, but it's hard to hear your coach say, no, you can't go.  It's tough, because I lose my head, start kicking stuff over, get upset.  But it is what it is.  I've got to deal with it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT