PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 17, 2006
Sam Arnold
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  A couple comments on your round if you don't mind.
SAM ARNOLD:  Sure.
Q.  Can you just explain it to me?  I know you had a couple birdies out there.  Talk about those, first of all.
SAM ARNOLD:  I had four birdies on two par 5s on the front, then I birdied 16 and 18 to finish.  It was incredible playing with Billy Mayfair, especially what he's
Q.  Talk about playing in your first championship here.
SAM ARNOLD:  It's incredible, unbelievable, probably the most exciting day other than being married and having kids.  It was just indescribable.
Q.  You had a great group, too, with Billy Mayfair?
SAM ARNOLD:  Yeah, it was fun.  Fans were really behind him and he was playing great.  I wish I would have played a little bit better.  I had two bad tee shots on the par 3s.  I hit one in the water, and then I hit one way right.

After the first couple holes, then I relaxed and I got it back to even par, and I double bogeyed 8, stupid decisions coming down the stretch.
Q.  What do you mean, like mental?
SAM ARNOLD:  Yeah, just getting a little tired.  The practice rounds, I came up Tuesday and Wednesday and played, and the practice rounds were very exciting.  You're not used to seeing so many players.  I probably wore myself out through the practice rounds.  If I would have done anything different to prepare today, I probably would have come up on Sunday.
Q.  Do you think it's going to have any effect for tomorrow?  Do you think you're really tired or do you think you'll rest up?
SAM ARNOLD:  I think it was more mental fatigue than anything.  I'm not used to playing in front of a big crowd.  You're sitting there grinding on every single shot.  I'm excited about tomorrow.
Q.  What's the game plan for tomorrow?
SAM ARNOLD:  Play a little bit more aggressive, especially on the putts.  I think that's the key.  I was watching Billy putt, and he made a few birdie putts out there, a 15 footer that was really aggressive.
Q.  What are your thoughts on being one of the 20 here to represent the Association?  It's got to be an honor in itself, to qualify that way.
SAM ARNOLD:  It really is.  It's a phenomenal feeling being part of a great association.  The 26,000 or 28,000 associates that we have, the golf professionals, it's great to be top 20 and to play, especially with the best players in the world.  It's pretty neat.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT