NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINAL: GOLDEN KNIGHTS vs JETS
May 19, 2018
Marc-Andre Fleury
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  They say the fourth one is always the hardest one to get.  What is the mindset going into tomorrow?  
MARC-ANDRE FLEURY: Just be ready from the start.  We always know they have a good start in their building.  It's going to be loud, it's going to be a little crazy.  But I think just focus on the beginning, get through the game quickly, take care of business.   
 Q.  What is it after you guys get scored on, you're able to go out and execute?  
MARC-ANDRE FLEURY: Yeah, I think it's been huge for us though, right?  I think in the playoffs, things switch quickly in the game.  For us to be able to get back in the game, take our lead back right away, it's been big.  Especially at home, get the crowd right behind us again.  We're able to ride it a little longer in the game.   
 Q.  You've been on both sides of this, facing elimination or trying to close a team out.  What will your mindset be going into Game 5?  
MARC-ANDRE FLEURY: Like I said, it's just about focusing on the start.  We know they're a team that has a good start.  The building is going to be buzzing, it's going to be loud in there.  We just have to worry about the start.  Our game will come.   
 Q.  Have you always been able to have fun?  In pressurized moments, people change.  Some people get withdrawn or their focus changes.  You always seem to be smiling, enjoying the moment even when there's so much on the line.  
MARC-ANDRE FLEURY: Maybe I wasn't always like this.  I just learned that for me that's what works best, trying to stay loose and having fun.  During the game, I think it helps me play better.   
Obviously if we're down by four goals, I'm not smiling or having fun.  But obviously we're winning, it's been a great run.  I just try to stay loose, keep the guys loose, just focus on my job.   
 Q.  You hear lots of discussion right now about motivation of your group.  What is the primary motivation for your group right now?  
MARC-ANDRE FLEURY: Just win.  Win one more game.  We've been good all season long at focusing on the next game, trying to win that one, not look too far ahead.  Forget about the past quickly.  I think we've done that in the playoffs also.  It's been good for us.   
 Q.  Have you ever felt this good in terms of seeing the puck and stopping the puck?  Seem to be in a pretty special place.  
MARC-ANDRE FLEURY: I feel good.  Every game is different a bit.  Obviously my teammates are playing great in front of me, too.  They helping me out around the net.  Got some wins out of it.  Yeah, it's been all right.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT