NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINAL: PENGUINS VS SENATORS
May 22, 2017
Marc-Andre Fleury
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  I'm sure you've seen this video of this little four-year-old girl and her reaction.  What do you think of that?  
MARC-ANDRE FLEURY: I don't know.  I thought that was sweet.  I don't want to get sad, though.  The thing is it's still going, and just keep cheering.   
 Q.  Like what do you say to her?  
MARC-ANDRE FLEURY: I just said keep cheering for the Penguins.  We're in good shape (laughter).   
 Q.  You were going to town out there.  How are you feeling about this being on the bench?  
MARC-ANDRE FLEURY: Like I said a few days ago, I don't want to make this about me.  I had a lot of fun playing.  I think I did well.  We beat two good teams.  It's just about cheering for the guys and keep it going.   
 Q.  When you're the guy who's not in there -- and you know what it's like to be in there -- what's the role, like the psychological role maybe as a teammate, as the backup?  Like knowing when to say stuff and when not to say stuff, how does that dynamic work?  
MARC-ANDRE FLEURY: I don't know.  I try to cheer the guys on, try to see the guys do good play, I guess, or maybe having a bit of a rough time.  Make sure everybody's in a good mood and encourage them.   
 Q.  I was thinking more as a goalie, goalie-goalie.  You might see something.  When do you say stuff?  Or maybe wait until you comes to me?  Do you know what I mean?  
MARC-ANDRE FLEURY: I don't bother him.  He's been great.  All along, he's been very good for us.  I don't think there's much to say.  If he has a question, I'll be there for him, but I just want to keep cheering him on and encourage him throughout the game.   
 Q.  It seems like you -- you're disappointed, I can imagine.  It seems like you've kept your sense of humor, your positive demeanor.  Is that just who you are?  
MARC-ANDRE FLEURY: Depends on the day, I would say.   
 Q.  I've got kind of a goofy one.  Nick Bonino's car broke down the other day, and he had to get a ride.  If you had to pick a teammate to be with you and something happened that you actually needed to fix the car --  
MARC-ANDRE FLEURY: Fix something?   
 Q.  I'm not talking about -- who's a car guy here that you'd want with you if you got into a jam?  
MARC-ANDRE FLEURY: Not Bonino, that's for sure.   
 Q.  Maybe give a look around.  There was a vote for you.  
MARC-ANDRE FLEURY: Really?  I don't know, I like cars a lot.  I love cars actually, but I'm not the best mechanic.  Tires and stuff, that's easy.  I think I'll go with an older guy, Kunitz maybe or Conor.  I feel like nowadays all the young guys have done is play hockey.  So we're kind of useless out there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT