U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 6, 2007
Jim Woodward
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JIM WOODWARD:  We got fortunate that we got to play this morning with no wind so there's good news and bad news of getting up at five in the morning.  When you do you get to play that second round with no wind so that's a big advantage for us. 

 Q.  The birdies on the -- you obviously took advantage of the conditions.  Talk a little bit about coming down the stretch and the birdies on your final nine. 
 JIM WOODWARD:  I birdied the par 5 No. 2, which was pretty easy, I reached it in 2 because there was no wind and then you can a driver and a long iron in there and I also birdied the other par 5, I guess it's No. 6 -- I don't know, it's 5, 5, don't even know what hole it is. 
 So I made two good birdies there I missed a short one on the par 3 No. 3 but if you would have told me I would have a 67 coming in here, I would have been happy. 

 Q.  Had you seen this kind of round coming from playing so well in the Heartland Tour? 
 JIM WOODWARD:  I've been playing good golf all year, so I'm not shocked, I tell you that.  It's just one round, you know, I'm not stupid.  This golf course is a son-of-a-buck. 

 Q.  Have you ever retired from competition and did other things? 
 JIM WOODWARD:  I was a club pro, I've been a club pro -- I quit the Tour in '95, so for the last ten years I played club pro golf, but I hadn't played competitive golf until starting this year, but I would like to play. 

 Q.  Are you going to give the school a try this the fall? 
 JIM WOODWARD:  Yeah, and I told Kite in the practice round -- he said, "What are you going to do in the fall?" and I said, "I think I'll just win this thing and that will take care of everything." 

 Q.  Are you comfortable out there? 
 JIM WOODWARD:  You know what?  I guess I should be nervous, but I'm not. 
 The U.S. Senior Open you either hit it good or bad.  You step it up, and if it's a good week, it's good week, and if it's not, you go home. 

 Q.  How many wins have you had on the tour? 
 JIM WOODWARD:  I haven't won one, I played good, but I haven't won one. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT