SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 4, 2016
Terri Williams-Flournoy
Brandy Montgomery
Tra'Cee Tanner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








South Carolina - 57
Auburn - 48
THE MODERATOR: We're now joined by Auburn.
Coach, if you'd like to talk about your opening thoughts on your game against South Carolina.
COACH WILLIAMS-FLOURNOY: I thought our kids continued to fight and play hard throughout the whole game.  It was a tough game, very physical game.
South Carolina is a very good team.  I mean, they're undefeated in conference for a reason.  That's tough to do.  It's a very tough conference, and they're undefeated in the conference.
THE MODERATOR: We'll take questions.
Q. Brandy, how difficult was it early on?  You missed your first seven shots.  Did it get easier once you got into a flow?
BRANDY MONTGOMERY: Yeah, in the beginning, my coach was just telling me to calm down, relax.  I got open looks.  I just need to knock down the shot.
I didn't want it to discourage me, the fact I was missing my shots.  I just wanted to make sure I calmed down.
My teammate Tra'Cee talked to me at halftime.  They got me to calm down.  I think that helped me the second half.  I wasn't overthinking, I was just playing and shooting.
THE MODERATOR: Tra'Cee, do you want to tell us about that conversation.
TRA'CEE TANNER: I had the same conversation with her yesterday.  She was letting herself get a little rattled.  She was open on a lot of her shots.  They were just rushed a little bit.
I told her to calm down, let the game come to her, let the flow of the shot happen.
Just for her to be patient.  When she's open, knock it down, just let the game come to her.
Q. What do you think of your NCAA tournament chances?  Do you think you're a lock?  Do you think this game might help you guys?
TRA'CEE TANNER: I think we positioned ourselves quite well for the NCAA tournament.  To lose only by 9 to the No. 3 team in the nation is pretty good.
But, you know, we're just hoping we get a bid in.  Regardless, we're still going to work.
Q. (No microphone.)
COACH WILLIAMS-FLOURNOY: We were talking about it in the locker room.
We play in one of the toughest conferences in the country.  We finish 8-8 in the conference.  We win the first SEC tournament game.  We only lose by 9 against one of the best teams in the conference.  We've played well throughout.
Really, when you look at it, what an improvement in this team.  Something has to be said for the work.
When you really look at us, the defense that we play, when we hold South Carolina to 57 points, they average almost 72 points a game.  We're a very good defensive team that deserves to show what a great defensive team we are in the NCAA tournament.  We're in the league among steals, in the nation among steals, in the nation among turning things over.  Our résumé for what type of team we are is good going into the NCAA tournament.
Hopefully somebody else will see that and give us that chance.
THE MODERATOR: Coach, ladies, thank you very much.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT