SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 3, 2016
Terri Williams-Flournoy
Jasmine Jones
Brandy Montgomery
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Auburn - 47   
Missouri - 45   
THE MODERATOR: We are now pleased to be joined by Auburn.   
Coach, would you like to offer your opening thoughts on your win over Missouri.   
COACH WILLIAMS-FLOURNOY: Tough, hard-fought game by our young ladies.  We just continued to work, work.  That was the message.  You can see I still don't have my voice.  I lost my voice at Florida.   
We told them we had to work.  Our focus now was Missouri from the day we found out we were playing them.  We just had to work for 40 minutes.   
THE MODERATOR: We'll open it up for questions.   
 Q.  What was the key to stopping Sophie Cunningham tonight?  
COACH WILLIAMS-FLOURNOY: We really wanted to just be the pressuring defensive team we are.  We wanted to be flying all over the floor.  I told them we want to trap and trap and trap some more, trap as many times as we can.   
A lot of times she was the one who had the ball in her hands.  She had to get the ball out of her hands.   
I don't know if it was so much we were focused on Sophie, it was so much we were focused on trapping and playing our defense.   
 Q.  Coach, what was the difference really from about 11 days ago, that game, to this game?  
COACH WILLIAMS-FLOURNOY: I know this is going to sound real crazy what I'm about to say, but we were really focused on stopping the three-point shooting.   
I told our young ladies, Missouri is a team that shoots the three.  That's what they're known for.  That's what they do.  You're not going to stop it, okay?  You might slow it down maybe, but you're not going to stop it.   
It's like people coming and playing us, against our defense and saying you're not going to turn the ball over.  You are going to turn the ball over because that's what we do, that's who we are.   
You couldn't just focus on the three.  You could probably say, That's the craziest thing, coach.  Last time we did it we got all out of position.  When we went back and looked at film, I don't know what defense they were running.  I told them they made up their own defense.   
We had to go back to our principles and do the best we could.   
 Q.  For either player.  You're known for being such a harassing defense.  You had 20 turnovers for Missouri to just 10.  Was that a big key and will that be a key tomorrow?  
JASMINE JONES: We were just playing Auburn basketball.  Whenever we do that, we turn teams over.  That's a big factor in our defense.  It's just motivation for tomorrow.   
BRANDY MONTGOMERY: It's the same thing.  It's just what we do.  That's what we've been focusing on this week, doing what we do, doing it well, trying not to worry about the other team.  If we take care of Auburn, everything else will take care of itself.   
 Q.  In the second half especially, how did you limit their perimeter shooting?  They were forced to go inside way more.  
BRANDY MONTGOMERY: I would say, like coach said, we didn't focus on their three-point shooting because that's what they do.  But we did make sure we got out to them and there was a contested three-point shot, not leaving their three-point shooters wide open.   
 Q.  Odd stat, but basically at the end of the second, third and fourth quarter, they had a lot of trouble scoring.  Was there something by design that was going on that stopped them?  
COACH WILLIAMS-FLOURNOY: We switched up the defense.  We're normally in our 1-2-2.  We switched up our defense and went to our 1-1-3.  We knew we had the corners covered a little bit more, but we also had the high post covered.  That's how Missouri's offense hurts you, with the high post or the shooters in the corner.   
When we switched up our defense, that gave us a chance to cover those.   
THE MODERATOR: Coach, ladies, thank you very much.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT