SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 7, 2013
Blanche Alverson
Tyrese Tanner
Terri Williams-Flournoy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









THE MODERATOR:   Joining us from Auburn is head coach Terri Williams‑Flournoy, Blanche Alverson and Tyrese Tanner.   We'll begin with an opening comment from coach. 
COACH WILLIAMS‑FLOURNOY:   Of course I applauded my team on a great effort they made in the second half to make a run to get back into the game.   We definitely would have liked to have had that same effort to start the game. 
But at this point, for this team, that's a great comeback from 18 down. 
THE MODERATOR:   We'll take questions for the student‑athletes. 

Q.   Blanche, can you talk about your teammate's fight. 
BLANCHE ALVERSON:   I think something clicked around the 12‑minute mark of the second half.   We have confidence in ourselves.   We knew when we put the effort forward we can make a comeback.   We just needed to make stops, keep pushing on the offensive end, kind of wearing them down on the offensive end. 
Just a little too much too late.   I thought our effort was incredible down the stretch.   I thought we showed a lot of fight and a lot of heart. 

Q.   Talk about Cha's performance at the end.   Making that left‑handed layup to get you within two. 
BLANCHE ALVERSON:   I think she definitely made a spark coming off the bench for us in the second half.   If she wouldn't have come into play like that, I don't think we ever would have made that run.   She was taking care of the ball and running the team. 
TYRESE TANNER:   She just showed how good of a point guard she is, that she can be.   Just going off of what Blanche said, if she didn't do that, that run she made, we wouldn't have been so close. 

Q.   If you do get a chance to play some post‑season, how big would that be for you, Blanche? 
BLANCHE ALVERSON:   Yeah, I think it's a great opportunity for us to keep playing.   Definitely for me, too.   Just to be able to play with my teammates in post‑season play, because it is a great opportunity for us.   We take advantage of that if we're given it. 
THE MODERATOR:   We'll take questions for coach. 

Q.   Talk about the run at the end.   The last field goal was with 5:33 left.   Talk about the defense obviously, the run that you made. 
COACH WILLIAMS‑FLOURNOY:   We definitely made a great effort, especially defensively.   There were a few times where we were scoring, giving up baskets, scoring.   We realized in order for us to catch up, we had to get the defensive stops we needed. 
I thought they came in and gave the great defensive stops that we needed to get caught up and back in the game.

Q.   Can you talk about Blanche's performance tonight. 
COACH WILLIAMS‑FLOURNOY:   You know, I don't want to just talk about her performance tonight.   I want to talk about her performance in our last six or seven games.   As a senior she stepped up and realized that in order for this team to be the team that we need to be, that she needed to step up and take over some of this leadership of the team. 
I think it's just great on her part to put the team on her back, to knock down shots.   She's a great shooter.   But more importantly, she emphasized being a rebounder.   Everything that she can do for the team she has done for this team and it has definitely helped us over the last few games. 

Q.   If you get invited to post‑season play, talk about possibly going to the WNIT?
COACH WILLIAMS‑FLOURNOY:   No doubt if we get invited to the WNIT, it's a great opportunity for our young ladies.   Anytime you can continue to play, it's always great.   I think right now we're really at a time when we're feeling very confident and we're feeling good about each other and we got some kids playing really well for us.   It's a great opportunity for us to continue to play.   Nobody wants to be done in March. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you very much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT