SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 1, 2018
Terri Williams-Flournoy
Janiah McKay
Unique Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Tennessee - 64, Auburn - 61
THE MODERATOR: We are now joined by Auburn head coach, Terri Williams-Flournoy and student-athletes Unique Thompson and Janiah McKay.  Coach, first your opening thoughts on tonight's game against Tennessee?
TERRI WILLIAMS-FLOURNOY: I thought our young ladies played extremely hard the whole game.  We kept fighting, kept fighting.  The game was right there for us, and our young ladies never gave up, just never gave up the whole game.  We were relentless.
THE MODERATOR: Questions for the student-athletes?
Q. Tennessee forced you all to have four shot clock violations in the second half and it looked like on almost every drive late in the game you were working deep into the shot clock what was it about Tennessee that gave you trouble and made them so tough defensively?
JANIAH McKAY: As a point guard I have to get my team set and those four shot clock violations I don't think I got the offense shot quickly enough.
Q. When Davis hit that last second shot when it left her hand did you think it was off target because it ended up hitting the backboard?
UNIQUE THOMPSON: Honestly, I thought it was an air ball and I was ready to go and get the rebound.  But when it hit the backboard and went in I had to look at the scoreboard to see.  Then I thought we can advance and we can get one more shot off, I know we can get it to Janiah's hands or Daisa's or Tiffany's, but I didn't give up.  I knew my teammates could get one more shot off but whenever -- got the shot off, there was nothing we could hold our heads down about.  We fought hard and we did everything that our coach wanted us to.  There were a couple of box-outs that we could have done, but everything else we did.
THE MODERATOR: Ladies, thank you.  Questions for Coach?
Q. Coach, you could hold a nationally-ranked team like Tennessee down to an even game and have it come down to a 3-point shot by Davis.  I'm sure you would have settled for that to start the game, wouldn't you?
TERRI WILLIAMS-FLOURNOY: For her to bank a three to start the game --
Q. If you could cut it that close where they had to make a bank shot from 24 feet?
TERRI WILLIAMS-FLOURNOY: Maybe, yes, but we're not going to take anymore victories, we played extremely hard, I think we played well enough to win the basketball game, forced them into 24 turnovers, we scored 23 points off those turnovers.  That's our pressure defense.  There were a few times offensively that we won on point, but our ladies kept playing hard and they never even thought they didn't have a chance to win this basketball game.
Q. Terri, with about five -- I think it was five and a half minutes to go before your team got a free throw, do you ever remember going that deep into a game without getting a freethrow?
TERRI WILLIAMS-FLOURNOY: I am not allowed to make comments on fouls and officiating.
THE MODERATOR: Coach, thank you very much.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT