ALLSTATE BCS NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP GAME: LSU v ALABAMA
January 6, 2012
Brandon Taylor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   This is nothing more than a home game.   Talk about being in the familiar surroundings and had this game been in Pasadena or Phoenix, Arizona, where it wouldn't be as much of an advantage for you.   Let's face it, they're going to have their crowd here, but you're going to hear nothing but‑‑ and you've seen nothing but all around the city (indiscernible) LSU.   
BRANDON TAYLOR:   Even though everybody says it's going for a second game, LSU fans can't come in the game, that they'll be outside cheering for us and stuff like that.   And we know that when we're coming up and pulling up into the game, coming to the stadium, that we see all the LSU Nation outside.   
   
 Q.   You went into their home, you knocked them right in the mouth and you beat them.   It was a defensive battle.   You can't take anything lightly with them, because, let's face it, that first three to four series they were hitting you with the ball pretty effectively‑‑ as a matter of fact, you guys were on your heels‑‑ if you take away the ending, just the beginning, it lets you know what you're up against.   
BRANDON TAYLOR:   Yes.   We tend to not take anything lightly.   We know that everybody's capable of winning, of beating anybody in this conference.   And especially a team like that, they're a very threatened team, very good team.   They're coached by tremendous coaches.   
So you just know that we've got to come out and play our best game at the time and don't slip up for us.   If you make a mistake it could cost you the game.  
   
 Q.   One guy who doesn't make a lot of mistakes and he was able to get to the red zone on you was AJ McCarron.   Your impressions of him as a safety, as someone who knows that he can be a tremendous threat to you having a long day or a short day, talk to me about what do you see in him that impresses you.   
BRANDON TAYLOR:   Just the way that he manages the game, doesn't make very many mistakes.   It doesn't take very many sets.   He's actually a great runner, and he doesn't just throw the ball just because he's under pressure.   He'll get up in the line, get back to the line of scrimmage before he even takes a sack.   
And he's just a really good all‑around player, and Coach Saban coached him very well.  
   
 Q.   Question to you:   Are they the best team you've played?  
BRANDON TAYLOR:   Yes, by far they're the best team we've ever played, and now we've got to play them again.   So now we're playing the best team twice.   So we just gotta go out there and try and dominate.  
   
 Q.   With all the BCS Bowl games that have been played, a lot have been very high scoring, 45, 70 points, all kinds of high‑scoring games, is that what the casual football fan should expect, or maybe something different?  
BRANDON TAYLOR:   I just think that the fans should expect two teams going head to head, trying to get the ring, bring the championship back home to their school and for the fans.   
So you can expect anything out of these two teams.   Never know what's going to happen at any given time because we've got a lot of playmakers on both of these teams and people trying to make big plays.  
   
 Q.   When Coach Miles took over when Coach Saban left, for a while he didn't really get the respect that Coach Saban had, and even when you won the championship still there was talk that Saban was looked at by some as (indiscernible).   What do you think it would mean to his reputation to beat Nick Saban and get two championships in four years?  
BRANDON TAYLOR:   I think it would mean everything because we've accomplished so much, and then making history at LSU by having an undefeated season.   There's things you don't see at many schools.   He hasn't been here very long, and it just shows how good he recruits and how good of a coach he is.  
   
 Q.   I've heard people kind of laugh sometimes at his postgame press conferences, some of the things he comes out saying, some of the words he comes up.   Are there times in team meetings he'll come out with a word where you guys go:   What does that mean?  
BRANDON TAYLOR:   Yeah, we don't really know where he get those words from, but Coach Miles is a down to earth guy and he's not very uptight or anything.   He's a great person.   
And we learn to respect that because you need that as players.   Don't need a coach that's mean or uptight all the time.   Just need somebody you can clown around with sometimes.   But he knows when it's time to do anything.   He does a great job managing both things.  
   
 Q.   Will he be eating AstroTurf?   I know he eats the grass at visiting stadiums.   Does it go for synthetic grass as well?  
BRANDON TAYLOR:   I don't think he'll be able to pick any of this and eat it.   But he might have some in his pocket.  
   
 Q.   I'm asking all the players this:   Are you in favor of a college football playoff?  
BRANDON TAYLOR:   Not really, because I think it takes a toll on our bodies.   I think it makes the season a lot longer.   And I just feel that the BCS is doing a great job of putting the two best teams in the game (indiscernible).   
I think a lot of people don't like it because like conference play, like a difficult schedule.   
But it shows every time that the two best teams are in the national championship, so I think it's working out very well.  
   
 Q.   For LSU being in New Orleans, as far as the party situation, maybe not as a big attraction, but how do you avoid that kind of trouble when you come down here?  
BRANDON TAYLOR:   As a team we set a curfew at 12:00 every night.   So there won't be nobody really going out.   We are just going to stay in the hotel and come close as a team and family know that we're here‑‑ it's just a business trip for us.   
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT