PILOT PEN INTERNATIONAL
August 22, 1998
Alex O'Brien
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







JOE LYNCH: For the second straight year, Sebastien and Alex reached the final here and
once again Mayor DeStefano worries about his job with Alex, Mr. New Haven. First question.

Q. You like it here, we can't seem to get rid of you?

ALEX O'BRIEN: I hope you don't want to get rid of me. I do like it here, yeah. I
haven't played with Sebastien for pretty much the whole year. We split up at the end of
last year because I was going to play an American to play Davis Cup and I really enjoy
playing with him and I think we play some great tennis together and it has been a lot of
fun playing with him this week for, I think, the second time. Well, first time for real we
played in Newport, I don't think you can really count that.

Q. You guys came out right away and jumped; particularly, you, Sebastien, you seemed to
be in a nice groove. Do you feel pretty good the way you are playing?

SEBASTIEN LAREAU: I think I am playing really well. It was nice to be reunited with
Alex. Seeing the ball well; kept playing that way and today we wanted a good start and get
them a little tight so we can go for our shots. We got the early break so that kind of set
the tone and momentum.

Q. What makes you guys such a good team, both right around 100 in singles, but you get
together seemed like there is something there.

SEBASTIEN LAREAU: We have played the last two years together and I think out on the
court we really compliment each other really well, both return well. He has got the big
serve. I will place and hit good volleys. Strength and weaknesses, we are both really high
and we have got a lot of confidence; did really well the last two years even though we
haven't played all year, we hook up here and we play really well. We know where each other
on the court, so the movement comes naturally, it seems like.
ALEX O'BRIEN: That is the biggest thing. Just like we win a lot of points, where I know
exactly where he is going to hit his second shot or where and I will be right there to put
away a volley or he knows where I am going to hit my shots, he is right there. I think we
have a good flow on the court. It makes it a lot more fun to play like that.

Q. How did you guys get together?

ALEX O'BRIEN: I thought he was pretty cute and -- (Laughs) -- Yeah, that is how -- I
mean, generally you kind of maybe play with the guy one time, and you think we play pretty
well together, then you say: Well, do you have any interest in playing with me for maybe
the next year, you kind of, yeah, just go see what your schedule is and we are usually
kind of -- it has been good because we have been ranked around the same pretty much
throughout the time we have been playing together and just kind of worked out well. I just
asked if he wanted to play and so that is how -- I approached him, I think.

Q. You see a guy and you think that he will have a game that will compliment yours?

ALEX O'BRIEN: Exactly. He is real flashy. He can hit any shot in the book and I am kind
of the solid guy, so, I think it is a good combination of having a guy who is real flashy,
moves a lot, and then a guy who is kind of real stable and can keep you in the match. So,
I think that is why we work well together.

Q. This should give you a lot of confidence for the rest of the year. I assume you will
keep playing as a team, at the US Open you will play as a team there?

ALEX O'BRIEN: I am playing with Byron Black. He is playing with Wayne black. We are
teaming up with the Black Family at the Open. But we might try to some in the future, kind
of see how things go. I think he is a little upset with me because I didn't play with him
this year and so maybe if I can get in his good fortunes, he will give me another shot.
Obviously he is carrying me because I hadn't been doing too well without him.

Q. Would you like to reunite at some point do you think?

SEBASTIEN LAREAU: For sure it is hard right now because he split in March with
Jonathan. I had committed to Wayne so I kind of have to finish with Wayne. We did well;
made the semis in Wimbledon; had some good results. Things are going there as well, but of
course, with Alex, if something could happen, especially for the next year and start
fresh, I think it would be a great idea. It would be a good start the third year together.

Q. What would it be like if you guys go up against each other in the US Open? Have you
faced each other --

SEBASTIEN LAREAU: We did play one this year. I was playing with Jeff Tarango and he was
playing with Jonathan.
ALEX O'BRIEN: Got him.
SEBASTIEN LAREAU: Tough three sets.
ALEX O'BRIEN: It is weird playing --
SEBASTIEN LAREAU: Yeah, it felt weird.
ALEX O'BRIEN: Not fun actually because you are friends and it is not fun playing your
friends.

Q. How about that match, I mean, talk about what was working for you in this match,
just the serving or --

ALEX O'BRIEN: Pretty much everything seemed to be working.
SEBASTIEN LAREAU: Movement was the key and returns we were really seeing the ball well
and putting a lot of pressure on their serves and were able to get the breaks, but I think
overall, everything, we had great intensity out there.

Q. Does it feel any different to win again?

SEBASTIEN LAREAU: He won the singles, but in the doubles --
ALEX O'BRIEN: Lost actually in the Finals last year.
SEBASTIEN LAREAU: It would be great to get another title together, I think. We know we
are playing well and we have got a good chance tomorrow, just come back and play the same
way we did today and throughout the week.

Q. There is not a lot of people out there. The stands are that something you get used
to after playing doubles that maybe there isn't the same interest as there is for singles
--

ALEX O'BRIEN: We never get used to it. We always want more people out there. But I
think if you watch a match like that it is fun, it is fun to watch doubles. Obviously I
have said this zillions of times because I am a big promoter of doubles because I think it
is a great game. It is too bad that people don't come out and watch matches like this
because there are some exciting points and sometimes I think it is more exciting than
singles. Singles you watch over and over. You watch these guys going out and playing
singles; you get the same kind of patterns. In doubles, you never know what you are going
to get. Get some guys that are diving all over the place, and some interesting fun points
and I think hopefully we can get more people interested in kind of revitalize it.

Q. You guys always seem to get up when you play against the Woodies. Is it fun beating
them?

ALEX O'BRIEN: It is, like he said, in Connecticut what are we 3 and 1 in Connecticut
and we are like 1 and 8 or something against them everywhere else. Maybe we should just
see if we can play them here every week. Yeah, we do we get fired up playing them because
they are the best team in the world.
SEBASTIEN LAREAU: It is challenging to play the best.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT