U.S. OPEN
August 31, 1992
Alex O'Brien
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. You are both coached by Brad Stein; correct?

ALEX O'BRIEN: Brad Stein and Jose Higueras are both USTA coaches
and they have helped me out a lot this week, and have just been
there for me whenever I needed court and help and all that.

Q. Did it help? Did they in some way help prepare you for this
match?

ALEX O'BRIEN: No. That is their guy. They are not going to --
they help me and did everything they can, but they didn't go out
there and tell me how to play him or anything.

Q. Did you surprise yourself by being able to stay in with
him so long in this match?

ALEX O'BRIEN: I don't know. I think maybe I was a little surprised,
but after I played the first game and I just hung in there and
fought out a few points. I realized I could play points with him,
and play with him.

Q. How many games-- how many matches did you guys play in the
past?

ALEX O'BRIEN: I think about two or three -- I don't know. We played
in juniors it was a long time ago, so it wasn't recently. It was
like 18s or 16s or something like that.

Q. Did you ever beat him?

ALEX O'BRIEN: Yeah, I did beat him.

Q. Just once?

ALEX O'BRIEN: I think so. I am not exactly sure.

Q. You say when it was, how long ago?

ALEX O'BRIEN: It was probably in 12s or 14s. It was a long time
ago.

Q. What were you thinking when you drove Courier and you were
on the outside center court for the first U.S. Open?

ALEX O'BRIEN: I wasn't thrilled at the prospect of throwing Courier
first round. Then again it is a great opportunity. It is a lot
of fun. It is just-- it's a great match to play because I have
nothing to lose, and it was fun for me to play. I wish I would
have played the big points a little better and maybe concentrated
throughout the match a little better, but that comes with experience.
He has been there. 

Q. Did you think that match went the way it did because you're
playing really well tonight or because he was sort of not on to
his kind of game that made him number one in the world?

ALEX O'BRIEN: I mean I don't think about that stuff. I go out
there and play my game. He might not have been on; he might have
been. I don't know. I play my game, and if, you know, if he wasn't
on, he has got to go out there and give it 110% every time and
myself too and the best man wins.

Q. Do you think you played a good match as well as you played?

ALEX O'BRIEN: I think I played a good match. I think I did a lot
of things not well today. I served so poorly. I mean, I don't
think I made a first serve throughout the whole second set. And
I felt like it always put me on the defensive. I just think I
have a lot to learn, and this is really new for me, and I think
I need to get in a lot better shape as well.

Q. Alex, what have you learned from this match that you will
carry forward in the next competition?

ALEX O'BRIEN: Get on the good side of the New Yorkers.

Q. Thank you very much, Alex. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT