ROSE BOWL GAME PRESENTED BY VIZIO: STANFORD v WISCONSIN
December 29, 2012
Chris Borland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  CHRIS BORLAND:   I think he's got the ability to run more so than Nunes did.   But he also does a great job of throwing.   He really trusts the tight ends.   So he's versatile.   He's managed the games well for them.   You've really got to stop him from getting loose.   It's an added dimension with his ability to run.  
   
 Q.   You've played some guys that are multi‑dimensional.   
CHRIS BORLAND:   I think he's definitely looking to pass first.   But unlike Martinez and Miller, those are the two guys that can really run.   But he's absolutely dangerous, I think.   He's a better thrower than those two guys, but he is looking to throw first.  
   
 Q.   Looking on film, is it a different team the last four or five games they played?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   They did similar things.   But from time to time, he's just making plays that they probably couldn't have made previously.   So the same team, but a few new plays.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about what the experience has been like so far?   Has it lived up to past years?   What's been different this year whether it's on the field, off the field, whatever?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   I think the experience has been great this year.   We've done it twice before, but guys are still very excited about the events.   They're really enjoying it.   As far as what's different, I think maybe our approach.   We know what to expect, obviously, and that's allowed us to kind of relax and enjoy it more.  
   
 Q.   I heard you guys did some kind of Improv Comedy Club thing?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   Yeah, we've done that the last two years.   It's a comedy show at the Hollywood Improv.   To me it's the best event of the week.   You get the whole team in there with some comedians.   It's always a great time.  
   
 Q.   Any memorable stories?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   Not a whole lot of PG moments in it, but definitely just a great time.   I think it's a fun crowd to play to, because we all know each other so well.  
   
 Q.   I was curious, did you watch film from any of the Stanford games before the quarterback switch?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   I did, yes.  
   
 Q.   What do you see different about the offense?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   Well, I think Hogan's able to create on his own a little bit more using his feet.   They run similar sets, but they do a few quarterback runs sprinkled in, and then obviously, his ability to extend plays is something special.  
   
 Q.   How similar is Stepfan Taylor to Montee?   Are they similar type running backs in terms of the power between the tackles type guys?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   I think so.   They're similar size.   I think the greatest similarity between the two is their completeness.   Both of them can do anything you want a running back to do on the field.   They're in on third down, they're in pass pro, they run, they catch out of the back field.   So going against Montee has helped us, I think, prepare for Taylor.  
   
 Q.   It seems like Hogan's another one of those guys that (Indiscernible) what have you learned about defending guys that take off with their feet or throw through the season?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   I think especially with Hogan, he's going to extend the play and look to throw more than other guys we've faced.   So staying plastered on in coverage to your man, and not getting lazy with your eyes is going to be important.   Because he has a tendency to extend plays and look for the deep ball.   So we can't let that happen.  
   
 Q.   The biggest thing we've seen different in the Stanford offense, you talked about Hogan extending plays.   You guys run a lot of similar plays like their offense.   I'm curious, what do you think the key is to the game?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   He's obviously a smart player.   You can tell that from film.   They utilize him well.   They mix in similar looks with their play action.   So you have to be patient.   He catches well out of the back field and blocks well.   So they do what they do.   He's a big part of it.   So you're going to have to be keyed into the fullback.  
   
 Q.   Stanford seems to be throwing a few fumbles in the last few games.   A few turnovers.   Is that something you're going to use to force help the offense out?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   We're always looking to get takeaways.   I think they've done a decent job of protecting the ball.   But it will be on us to get the takeaways.   I'm sure they've addressed that.   But we'll have to make plays in order to get the ball.  
   
 Q.   The offensive line of Stanford, is it a physical unit like your own offensive line, do you think?   What challenges are there from the other side?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   Yeah, they've got size.   I think they're more position blockers than our offense.   They've got great feet and they're well coached.   But they are physical, especially for the Pac‑12.   They'll come after you.   
It's not something we haven't seen before.   It's kind of the game we like to play.  
   
 Q.   How are you enjoying all the festivities that comes along with the Rose Bowl tradition?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   Oh, they've been a ton of fun.   I think everybody's really enjoyed them.   They really roll out the red carpet.   It's been a blast.   Everybody's having a great time.  
   
 Q.   What has been the most exciting event for you thus far?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   I think the Hollywood Improv was the biggest hit.   It always is.   We've been here three times now, so it's just a ton of fun.  
   
 Q.   So as far as the focus and enjoying the fun with the focus of the intensity of the game coming, how do you separate and keep your focus and not get too caught up in the fun things?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   I think in the beginning of the week you take full advantage of the fun things.   You go see the sights and everything, and when it comes time for practice and meetings, you're really focused.   But as the week goes on, you taper down and zero in on the game which we're starting to do.  
   
 Q.   Talk about the intensity of this game.   Are there any butterflies or nervousness?   Is there a greater focus this year as compared to previous years?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   No, I think we've always had great focus.   But this game is absolutely going to be a huge game.   It's the granddaddy of them all.   It's a great match‑up for us.   So it's going to be an intense, physical football game.  
   
 Q.   Third time going to be the charm?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   We're hoping so.   We're preparing for it.  
   
 Q.   Why don't you give Wisconsin a shot out?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   Yeah, go Badgers.  
   
 Q.   So last night you guys were having heated Ping‑Pong battles.   Where did you learn to be such prolific Ping‑Pong players?  
CHRIS BORLAND:   It started in our game room.   We got the game room back in Madison a week or two ago.   Ping‑Pong has been a hit in there.   We've all been quick studies.  
   
 Q.   Mike Taylor said he's just trying to help you along.   
CHRIS BORLAND:   Mike grew up with a Ping‑Pong table.   I had never seen the game before until I got to college, and I had probably picked up more in a week than Mike had in his entire life.   Right now I'm challenging him.   He's backing down.   He's pretty scared of me.   I'm coming up on him.  
   
 Q.   So are you able to catch some people off guard now that you have picked up such a variety of Ping‑Pong moves?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   I've got a unique game.   I'm kind of like the Roger Federer, more finesse, angles.   Put a lot of spin on the ball.   So I think it catches guys off guard, yeah.  
   
 Q.   Who would you say is the best Ping‑Pong player on the team that you've seen so far?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   Not surprisingly is Joel Stave.   He's pretty much good at everything.   He had a table or two growing up.   That's kind of unfair.   They should be in a class of their own having grown up with a table.   But he can play.  
   
 Q.   Is it the fact that he's tall and has reach, or is it his hair?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   Most of it is his hair.   He's got the tennis player hair, so that adds some dimensions to his game.   I can't return his serve because I'm busy looking at the flow, and I can't catch the ball.  
   
 Q.   How important is it for you guys to have that game room down there as a way to unwind?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   It's awesome.   I think the camaraderie has been great.   Guys are always down there, hanging out and playing games and such.   It's something we've never had before, and guys are really enjoying it.  
   
 Q.   How many steaks did you put away at the Beef Bowl last night?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   I just had one.   I'm a pretty slow eater.   So by the time I was done, I put dessert on the table, so I just had one.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
CHRIS BORLAND:   Yeah, we've got to feed those guys.   They take on double teams for us and carry the banner for us at the Beef Bowl.   That's kind of their niche.  
   
 Q.   Did any players like their beef count surprise you?   Did anybody surprise you with how much they ate?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   A lot of guys took it easy this year.   Lot of guys had two or three, which I don't think is taking it easy if you see the size of those things.   But I know Dallas Lewallen had a bunch.   I couldn't tell you the figure.  
   
 Q.   How important are traditions like the Beef Bowl to the whole Rose Bowl experience?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   I think it's really important.   It's unique to the Rose Bowl.   I've only been to one other bowl game, but the ends there were great.   But the Rose Bowl is extra special.  
   
 Q.   This is your third Rose Bowl.   How different is this experience compared to the previous two with Alvarez?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   I think he's brought a sense of calm.   He's presented a great plan for us to follow, and guys have a lot of confidence with Coach Alvarez at the helm.  
   
 Q.   How do you feel practice has gone the last few days?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   It's been great.   It's been really crisp.   Before we left Madison, we had great practices there, and nothing has changed since we've been on the bowl site.   Guys are locked in and focused.   And it's been crisp, clean practices.  
   
 Q.   Is it different knowing that a lot of these coaches aren't going to be back next year?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   I think it's a unifying factor.   We're kind of pulling together.   This is like our second family here.   So we're all focused on finishing the task and sending these seniors and the coaches off with a win that they deserve.  
   
 Q.   Is it just that every team has its own make‑up, and coaches and players are in the last game with this year's addition of the team.   
CHRIS BORLAND:   I think so.   This is a 2012 football team.   We're seeing it through the Rose Bowl.   We want to finish the job.   It's important to do that for the guys who it's their last year here.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
CHRIS BORLAND:   I like to run around the table a lot.   It's been detrimental for my legs.   I take three ice baths a day for Ping‑Pong.   It keeps me limber (laughing).   It's been 50‑50, Ping‑Pong, Rose Bowl.  
   
 Q.   You've been through this bowl thing before.   When you haven't played for a month, is it more concern about rest or rust and rhythm or is it better to get a rest?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   I think both are true.   But you've got to take care of the rust in practice, which we've done.   We took some time off, got everybody healthy.   Out here we actually had a full scrimmage.   I think that was great for us.   We haven't done it in the past, but being able to tackle helps the defensive players.  
   
 Q.   Is it hard to have that in games?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   Yeah, it's a challenge.   I know the guys appreciate having the time to get healthy.   I think a lot of the guys would take the tradeoff.   You're going to have a tiny bit of rust that can you knock off in practice.   But you're going to feel a lot better physically after the grind of the season to get some time off.  
   
 Q.   Everybody's supposed to find stuff on media day.   Beau Allen kicked his butt?  
CHRIS BORLAND:   Beau Allen is a smart guy.   He knows his stuff.  
   
 Q.   You know him as well as I know anyone?  
CHRIS BORLAND:   Yeah, we're roommates, so I know Beau has it between the ears.  
   
 Q.   Everybody thinks Stanford's got all the smarts?  
CHRIS BORLAND:   Oh, yeah, we're not too shabby.  
   
 Q.   When you met Coach Buh for the first time, he's got that immediate presence, doesn't he?   You know he's an optimistic, positive guy from the first time you meet him, is that fair?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   Absolutely.   He's got a ton of energy and excitement about him.   He's always happy, it seems like.   That positive energy really wears off on his players.  
   
 Q.   Defensive coaches in my experience tend to be more on the pessimistic side.   How does that change or change the defensive locker room when you have such a positive presence in there?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   Yeah, defensive coaches often times are kind of old school and gritty, but he provides such a positive energy.   It makes guys enthused to play.   Makes guys excited, and it's been great for us this year.   Coach Buh has done a wonderful job.   He's a happy and positive guy.   He's got an edge to him though.   He's a competitor, and we get to experience both of those.  
   
 Q.   I keep hearing the linebacker meetings are the place to be.   The strength and conditioning guys will sneak into the back.   What is it about these meetings that makes them so entertaining?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   I don't know if they're the hot ticket or anything.   But Coach Buh's got a lot of personality.   There are often times that there's maybe a minute or so of straight laughter going on in the meetings when something happens.   Absolutely, I think the linebacker meetings are blast.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible) was saying how much he appreciated how Coach Buh was.   How has he handled the last month or so?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   I think he's handled it as well as he could.   He was straightforward and honest with us.   Which all the guys appreciated.   He made sure to tell us face‑to‑face before anything was on the news or internet or anything.   We all appreciated that.   As far as practices have gone, he hasn't changed at all since before the transition.   He's worked his tail off and he's helping us anyway he can.   
   
 Q.   I was trying to ask about some Cal questions.   That's my day job.   He was like focus is squarely on Wisconsin and Stanford, and January 1st.   How much do you appreciate that commitment?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   It means a lot.   I've come to expect that out of Coach Buh.   He's such a classy guy.   We all have so much respect for him that it was no surprise that that was his focus.   He really cared about his players, and we appreciate that.  
   
 Q.   How big a challenge is it going to be with Stanford's tight ends?   I mean, there are so many times in the Pac‑12 this year that they've had the right decisions.   
CHRIS BORLAND:   Yeah, it's going to be a big challenge.   That is probably the most difficult facet of their offense to defend is those tight ends.   Especially woven into the play action game.   The quarterback has so much confidence in him, like he said.   He'll throw it even when the guys are covered and they'll make a play.   
So I think the key for us will be being physical.   Those guys don't often get disrupted on their routes.   That will be something we need to do to disrupt timing.  
   
 Q.   What would you say is the best tight end you've faced this season?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   I think Stoneburner from Ohio State was pretty good.   Sims from Michigan State was a good player.   We faced the Mackey tight end of the year for the Big Ten every day in practice.   So we've seen some good tight ends.  
   
 Q.   Stepfan Taylor, you talked about the physicality, and he's a pretty physical runner himself.   What have you seen from his physicality and speed from Stepfan Taylor?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   I think he's got great vision.   He's a one‑cut guy that likes to get north and south.   Obviously, being a power back, that makes some sense.   But those are the main things.   I think he knows he's a smart player.   He knows the scheme of the offense.   He knows where he can get his yards.   He makes his one cut and he's physical.   So he's got a few moves, but I don't think that's necessarily his forte.  
   
 Q.   Kevin Hogan comes in, another quarterback.   You guys have talked about it all season playing these backs.   Do you think that's going to help?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   I think so.   Stanford runs a different offense than the offenses that we've seen with running quarterbacks.   He does a great job extending plays.   Their play action game has another added dimension.   You see the play‑action run, and he still has the opportunity to run the ball.   It's very challenge to go defend, but experiencing games with guys that can really run at the quarterback position is going to help us a lot.  
   
 Q.   You guys did a lot with the Indy package when you guys played Nebraska.   I think you were quoted as saying you can kind of see some of the confusion in the other team's eyes.   It's got to be fun for you guys moving around.   And you know the offense doesn't know where you're throwing it.   
CHRIS BORLAND:   Yeah, it's a blast.   If you can get the offensive guys confused, you've won the first half of the battle.   If you can do that presnap which we were able to do in the package with Nebraska, it's all the better.   
First off, if you do get in that position, it's a great package for us.  
   
 Q.   This is going to be a physically challenging, old school game.   Barry talked about this is the kind of game that he loves.   You guys fully expect a physical, type game?  
CHRIS BORLAND:   Oh, yeah.   They're going to run the ball between the tackles and we'll do the same.   It's going to be a very physical game.  
   
 Q.   What is going to be your guys key at linebacker stopping the run?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   It always starts with stopping the run.   That's number one.   But off of that play‑action.   When we're matched up with the tight ends, we've got to do a good job.  
   
 Q.   You guys are going against quarterbacks like Braxton Miller.   How is Hogan different?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   Well, his ability is similar, but Stanford runs different offenses than the teams that we've seen with mobile quarterbacks.   So his ability to run is more dangerous.   Extending plays.   I think he likes to run to look for the pass.   Sometimes that's even scarier than the guy who scrambles.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
CHRIS BORLAND:   We love that game.   We love the physical brand of football.   They run power, and lead and things like that.   That's our game.   That's what we're built for.   They do a great job in play‑action too.   So they're a smart and talented offense.  
   
 Q.   How much has experience meant?   Does it matter?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   Yeah, I think it helps us having been in this game before.   It's not like Stanford's not familiar with the Rose Bowl.   They've been to the actual stadium and played obviously UCLA.   But the game itself, we're comfortable with.   I think we've approached it in a mature way.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
CHRIS BORLAND:   Absolutely.   It's almost been a unifying factor.   The guys want to rally around one another and give the seniors and departing coaches a win in the Rose Bowl.  
   
 Q.   Do you see the Wisconsin guys getting more fired up?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   Yeah, it was special.   We had a group of juniors and seniors reach out to Coach Alvarez, and when he agreed to come back, guys were ecstatic.   He's won three of these things.   So to have him coaching means a lot to all of us.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
CHRIS BORLAND:   For our defense, it's stopping the run.   They also have a great play action game, so you have to be on your keys with that.   They do a great job hitting the tight ends.   Especially at linebacker, we need to stop.  
   
 Q.   So watching it on film, is there anything that stands out to you guys?  
CHRIS BORLAND:   Yeah, it's pretty clear right off the bat that they love to run the ball.   They're good at it.   Taylor is a good back, and they're a well‑coached offensive line.   So it all starts with stopping the run.  
   
 Q.   What is something that you need to do to have success during the game?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   Personally?   
   
 Q.   Yeah.   
CHRIS BORLAND:   You know, it's my job as middle linebacker to make the calls before the snap.   Stanford does a lot of things presnap with motions and trades that I'm going to have to recognize and get a few guys lined up so we're all ready to play.  
   
 Q.   How has this season shaped you as a player?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   I think we've all grown, myself personally too.   We've been through a lot of adversity.   You learn to just not let it affect your next day.   We've been through a lot.   But think we've grown stronger, and that's true of myself as well.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible) what adversity have you had?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   I think it started in January.   We had six new coaches come on.   After that, we had some off the field problems.   Guys were‑‑ nothing guys did, but guys experienced, and some of our leaders, Montee had to go through some stuff.   But we've rallied around him, and we're ready to go for the season.   But then early on we lost a game we didn't expect to lose.   After which we lost a coach we didn't expect to lose, and then had a quarterback switch.   That was kind of the start of it.  
We lost a lot of close games this year.   But we never lost sight of our goal, and we ended up making it to Indianapolis, which was the goal from day one.  
   
 Q.   Talk about having Barry Alvarez?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   It's great for us.   We're really fortunate to have a Rose Bowl Hall of Famer coaching us out here.   A lot of these guys grew up watching and loving Coach Alvarez and his teams.   So to have him on the sidelines for us is going to be a big boost.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
CHRIS BORLAND:   I think it's a different situation overall.   He's done a great job of calming guys' nerves and exciting guys at the same time.   I think we've got as much confidence as we've ever had as a team under Coach Alvarez.   He's stepped into a different situation, obviously.   But he's done a wonderful job so far.  
   
 Q.   Why didn't you have more confidence before?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   No, it was nothing like that.   I think it's unfair to compare them as head coaches, for me.   It's such a different situation.   But Coach Bielema always did a great job.   We have an added confidence because Coach Alvarez has brought so much swagger and has such a presence.   The guys are really excited to play for him.  
   
 Q.   What did you think when you found out about it?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   I was surprised at first, but you learn early on in his career this is a business.   He just did what is best for him and his family.   So wish him well.   We all loved Coach B. while he was here.   He gave us all our opportunities, so we're grateful for him.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about the ride that you've been on this season?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   Oh, yeah, lots of ups‑and‑downs.   We've lost five games and three of which, or two of which were in overtime.   There were a couple by two points or three points.   So it's been difficult.   We've had difficult losses, but I think those have shaped us.   We haven't batted an eye.   We came back from those situations and ended up where we wanted to be before the season started.  
   
 Q.   What's it mean for you guys to be here three times in a row?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   It means a great deal.   I don't think it's been done since the '70s for a Big Ten team.   It was our goal before the season.   It's great to be back.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
CHRIS BORLAND:   I think it's a good opportunity for them.   A good bowl game might propel them in the pre‑draft process.   I think guys are just kind of enjoying the game and going out there to win for Wisconsin.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible) do you think it's accurate to say that they can (Indiscernible) with you guys?  
CHRIS BORLAND:   I think it starts with stopping the run.   But point 1B would be their play action.   They do a great job of giving a similar look and having it be a pass.   They've got great tight ends.   They're tall, they've got great hands, so their play action is probably, if the run game is 1A, the play‑action is 1B.  
   
 Q.   I know a lot of people are talking about (Indiscernible).   
CHRIS BORLAND:   There are a lot of similarities.   The presnap movement by our offense is very similar to that of Stanford.   I think we've been prepared our entire careers playing here and seeing that type of stuff for this game.   Because Stanford loves to shift tight ends and even linemen and motions and trades and things like that.   So that will be big for us stopping that.  
   
 Q.   How impressive has the offensive line been?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   They've really grown.   It's a testament to their work ethic too.   I don't think the year started out wait those guys wanted it to.   They weren't performing their best.   They continue to grind and work, and they're a big reason why we're here today.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
CHRIS BORLAND:   I think physical personally.   I think those words are associated with downs.   First and second down, you need to be physical.   But you get an opportunity to be in third and long, and that's when you can be disruptive.   That's probably the most fun down for us.   We can create some confusion and come with the blitz and things like that.   I know guys love it.   
   
 Q.   The defense had its best games early on this season.   What are some of the pregames (Indiscernible)?  
CHRIS BORLAND:   Just playing the whole game, every snap.   I think we've put together a really good performance out at Oregon State, and against Utah State as well.   The first few games we gave up a few plays.   It happened that if it was the other way, it would have been a shutout.   But that's the way it goes.   You have to play every snap.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
CHRIS BORLAND:   I think we've got a lot of depth.   We've got a lot of cohesiveness.   We all get along.   We work well together on and off the field.   I think that's helped us be a good defense this year.   
As far as the performance itself, I think we've got a lot of guys that can do different things.   I'd say versatile and aggressive.  
   
 Q.   This is now the third time you're here with this team.   What are some of the lessons that the veterans have passed down to the younger players as far as being prepared?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   I think it's important to just remember it's just a game.   Young guys can get a tendency to get big eyes when they come to the Rose Bowl, even a bowl game in general.   So it's important just to approach it like we would any regular season game.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT