ROSE BOWL GAME PRESENTED BY VIZIO: STANFORD v WISCONSIN
December 28, 2012
Chris Borland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  CHRIS BORLAND:   Travis eats as much as he wants to and never gets full.  
   
 Q.   It's a beautiful thing to have.   
CHRIS BORLAND:   Yeah, hopefully he slows down.  
   
 Q.   Some of the guys are talking about increased focus a little bit.   
CHRIS BORLAND:   I think Coach Alvarez coming down has had two dynamics to it.   One, we're more relaxed.   The other end it almost seems like a paradox, but we're more focused and practices are more intense, too.   
So I think in the football aspect, definitely more focused and then outside things are looser and guys are having more fun.  
   
 Q.   Shelton said you guys know the landscape so much, you're directing the shuttle drivers that are getting loss?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   Shelton may.   I enjoy the mountains and enjoy the view.  
   
 Q.   Does any of the off the field stuff interest you anymore?   You want to take part in a little bit.   
CHRIS BORLAND:   I think so.   It's something Coach Alvarez has stressed too, enjoying the full experience.   Even though this is our third year, Hollywood Improv never gets old, the rides at Disneyland never get old, and for Travis and them, they're crazy about the Beef Bowl.   We're still 18 to 22‑year‑old kids, so definitely enjoy the scenes.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
CHRIS BORLAND:   Yeah, I think so.   Kind of got baptized by fire.   Guys were introduced to it through experience.   One thing I think we can rely on is this junior class right now.   It's a deep, talented class with a lot of experience and a lot of character.   So despite the changes that have gone on, I don't think it's changed us.   We should be great moving forward.  
   
 Q.   Is there any comparison to a year ago, because you had uncertainty about the coaching staff, and you didn't know who was coming back?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   Yeah, I think maybe this year there is more certainty because you know exactly who is coming in, and who he's bringing and who is staying.   One thing I think is easier is when it's an entirely new staff, they have continuity among themselves, so they bring it in and hit the ground running.   As opposed to a hybrid of guys that have been here and then new guys, because they have to gel as coaches before they can really teach us.   
So I think that is one benefit of this transition that will be easier is them having worked together before.  
   
 Q.   In a game like this, do you think adjustments are key because they have a lot of time to prepare, you're always going to see something?   Have you talked about making adjustments?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   Oh, yeah.   And even the game was out, I was on the head set and what's going through his mind is pretty impressive.   I think he's put us in a position as players to have success.  
   
 Q.   Talk about experienced players and how you can relate a lot of information so you guys can adjust on the fly?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   Yeah, I think this year especially.   It's a thinking man's game.   A lot of times people don't appreciate that.   From Sheldon Mendez in the secondary to Mike Keith ‑‑ and I do a lot on‑‑ not a lot of people put as much stress on the defensive line as we do.   So I think it's a smart defense.  
   
 Q.   So many moving parts in the game.   It's a lot for a guy to kind of go through all of that and pinpoint the issues and make adjustments.   Are you impressed with that?   It's a lot of information to process?  
CHRIS BORLAND:   Oh, yeah.   And he doesn't watch every guy, but he understands the overall scheme, and our assistant coaches do an awesome job of relaying that information to us on the field.  
   
 Q.   What are some of the (Indiscernible)?  
CHRIS BORLAND:   The Ohio State game.   It was just in‑game stuff, in‑game adjustments from something as simple as they're running this play in this situation, or they're utilizing this motion to get us into a certain look, things like that.   He just recognized them right away, and could call out plays before they were happening.  
   
 Q.   What do you remember as your strongest memory from last year, in the locker room and the meeting after game?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   Well, I thought we got the spike down with time to go.   So I was upset about that.   But the game wasn't won or lost on that play, obviously.   I was obviously disappointed and heart broken, but I think we left some things out there on the field that could have helped us have a better chance.   I think we gave up some big plays and we had a long run and a wheel pass that hurt us.   So those two things really stick out in my mind.  
   
 Q.   For the senior class next year, do you anticipate once the coaching staff settles and depending upon (Indiscernible) could it be as good next year?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   I think we could be a better team.   But there is so much work that goes on between January and the season that predictions don't hold much weight right now.   We absolutely have the talent.   I haven't worked with the new staff, but they've had a tremendous amount of success.   So right now there is no reason we shouldn't be a very good team next year.  
   
 Q.   You mentioned work, and it would strike me that would be one thing you wouldn't be concerned about with this class with guys coming in.   Whether you win or lose this game?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   Yeah, that will never be a concern here.   One thing that Coach Alvarez and Coach Bielema did is recruit the right type of person.   We always work hard and keep our nose clean.   So those things won't be affected bit coaching change.   We'll see how things play out on the field, but I'm always confident that we do the right thing off.  
   
 Q.   Have you gotten your paperwork in to the NFL?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   I haven't yet.  
   
 Q.   Travis said he didn't either.   He said he was close, but now it's sitting at home waiting.   
CHRIS BORLAND:   Yeah, I think the snowstorm may have had something to do with it.  
   
 Q.   Are you looking for any particular grade?   Does it matter to you?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   I'm just seeing where I stand.   I'm not looking for anything like that.   Most likely I'll be back next year.   Probably will be.   So it's just where I stand.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible) I know there is the uncertainty of new coaches (Indiscernible)?  
CHRIS BORLAND:   Yeah, I think bowl prep has helped me get more excited for next year.   Obviously you're preparing for the game, but there are times when young guys get to play, and we've got a lot of good young players too.   There's no reason to think we can't be as good a team next year.  
   
 Q.   Talk about stretching and scratching, that's what I call it anyway.   But some of the young guys, whether it's a defense?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   I think defensively Reggie Mitchell playing in the secondary next year, a really smooth athlete, smart player, instinctual, we'll have spots open for next year.   I think Reggie's going to have a good year.   Vince Biegel is a good young linebacker.   We have an entire defensive line coming back, so that's going to be great.   
So, yeah, everyone, and there is a lot of depth too.   So that will be great for us.   Offensively Melvin will come into his own next year.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
CHRIS BORLAND:   I don't know.   I haven't had a lot of conversations with him.   But he can be extremely good.   I mean, extremely good.   So hopefully he understands that and I think the coaches do a good job of keeping him grounded and motivating him.  
   
 Q.   Montee I talked to in spring ball, but a couple of guys said we have to work harder to maximize (Indiscernible)?  
CHRIS BORLAND:   I don't know if he stopped that.   He said he did.   
   
 Q.   It's a young kid thing.   
CHRIS BORLAND:   Well, you want him to play.   You want him to want to play.   If he's sitting out there comfortable being third string, that's a bad thing.   So you like his attitude.  
   
 Q.   What do you think is going to be‑‑ I know they like to establish the run, but I also know that quarterback has given them a different dimension.   Is it just going to be the basics?   Have you got to keep them from not getting a lot of first downs to start with?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   Yeah, that is the plan in any game.   But this game with play‑action could be especially true.   If you're able to really shut down their run, which is a tall task, it makes their play‑action less effective.   So it's all going to begin up front with our defensive line and our linebackers, and Dez coming down too.   So stopping the run is number one.   Then getting hands on those tight ends in pass coverage.   They're big guys.   They've got great hands.   But on film, they don't get a lot of reroutes.   They don't get hit a lot.   So if we're able to get hands on them, that can affect their timing.   
   
 Q.   You basically let them run more than they probably should?  
CHRIS BORLAND:   It's difficult to do because they do such a great job in play action.   But if you're able to get hands on them and recognize pass early, it will disrupt timing.   A lot of their routes are timing based.   So it will be great to be able to disrupt that timing.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible) he said that teams try to shut him down and they haven't been able to do it for the most part.   
CHRIS BORLAND:   Yeah, he's very talented.   I think he's as athletic as some receivers and a big body.   He's got great hands, and I think that's what jumped off to me at film is he catches everything.   Quarterback has a lot of confidence in him.   He'll throw it when he's covered.   He'll throw it high, and the guy can get up and get it.   That's going to be a tall task for us.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible) you guys played Ohio State up there.   Did you see that on tape?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   Yeah, I did, yeah.   You see it over and over again.   Great hands.   He catches the ball outside of his body as good as I've seen any tight end.  
   
 Q.   Are you going to eat tonight?  
CHRIS BORLAND:   I'm going to have one.   I'm not a big eater.   I eat frequent.   It's good.   It's very good.   They have some corn and mashed potatoes, too.   It's not bad.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible) has it been more difficult in the past few weeks to be able to focus?   Is there a sense of finality?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   I think it's the latter.   I think we recognize that this is our last opportunity to play together, and we're very close.   This is everybody's second family is this team and these coaches.   So there is no animosity, no lack of focus.   It's more of let's pull together and finish this the way we deserve to.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about the bands?  
CHRIS BORLAND:   Yeah, everybody's wearing them.   I just did some pool workouts, so they're faded.   But it doesn't hold less meaning.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
CHRIS BORLAND:   You can say what you want about it, but it's very much real.   I think guys absolutely buy in.   You've seen it in practice, and you've seen it in preparation and watching film.   Just the way we've conducted ourselves, I don't think anybody has anything or is focusing on anything other than this game.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
CHRIS BORLAND:   Coach Partridge has been here my whole career.   I think what stands out most about him is the type of guy he is.   Oftentimes in this business I think coaches treat players like employees, but he treats you like a son.   Everybody's got a tremendous amount of respect for him.   The coach is true of Coach Ash.   He came in later, but he's got everybody's respect, and he's an excellent defensive coordinator.  
   
 Q.   When you talk about the differences between what it's been like with Coach Alvarez coaching practice?   Has it been shorter or is there something different?   Have you noticed a big difference?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   I think one thing that's different, and maybe because of the circumstances of him coming in after the team is established, he's really letting the coordinators and the coaches do their job.   Not to say that's something Coach Bielema didn't do, but with the position Coach Alvarez is coming in late like this, he's done a good job of stepping in when he needs to and then allowing everyone to do their job.   I think the coaches appreciate that freedom and the players can feel that too.  
   
 Q.   The players said there was a shorter practice.   Does that make for a better practice?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   It's not necessarily shorter.   We get a certain amount of work done, good, quality work.   So if it takes 26 periods, it takes 26 periods.   But we've been practicing well and getting good reps, so it has been short because we've been practicing well.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
CHRIS BORLAND:   They're similar, similar in size.   The number one similarity between the two would be their complete skill set, I think.   Montee and Taylor can catch the ball, run, block, do anything on the football field.   So you can never sleep on either of those guys.   Going against Montee has helped us see a premier back, so it's nothing new for us.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
CHRIS BORLAND:   Kevin Hogan has really matured for his age.   He's managed the game well.   He's stepped beyond that and does a good job of finding those tight ends in plate‑action game.   So he's fulfilled the role really well.   I think being under Andrew Luck probably helped him learn a few things, and you can see it in his game.   He's tried to implement some things that Luck did.   I've been impressed with him.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
CHRIS BORLAND:   I wouldn't compare them, no disrespect to Hogan.   But Andrew Luck is the number one draft pick.  
   
 Q.   What is the strategy going to the Beef Bowl?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   I'm going to steer clear of the O‑line table.   I heard rumors that Beau wants to eat a lot.   I'm his roommate, so I might sleep over in someone else's room tonight.   Personally just one or two.   I'm only going to eat until I'm satisfied.  
   
 Q.   Do those guys get fired up for this?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   There is some pressure from the outside.   There is some very real pressure to perform well at the Beef Bowl.   Those guys take it seriously.   Yeah, they do like to eat, that's for sure.  
   
 Q.   Do they not eat anything throughout the day?   Do they just get themselves revved up?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   Beau's been on a training regiment the last few weeks.   He's eating small salads.   He's taken on the Kobayashi technique.  
   
 Q.   Has he?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   Yeah, he's been training.   I don't know.   We'll see what happens tonight.  
   
 Q.   When you look at Stanford, what do you see in Stepfan Taylor?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   I think he's a complete back.   He's running very hard when he's running the ball.   What's impressed me most is he catches out of the back field really well.   He can block.   He can do it all on the football field, so it's going to take a lot to stop him.  
   
 Q.   Do you see any similarities between Montee Ball and him?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   It's their completeness.   Both can do anything you want a running back to do.   That's big too, because he doesn't come out on third down.   He can block in the pass protection game.   They can run screens.   They can run outside, inside, and it adds to what they can do as an offense.  
   
 Q.   Talked a little bit to Mike about it, but do these guys pull a lot?   How difficult is it to get off those blocks in the feed and things like that?   Part two, how important is it to make sure you find a way to get into rhythm and settle that?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   Well, their pull play is designed to gain an extra gap, and they've been able to do that a lot this year.   They utilize angles in their blocking game.   They're physical, but not the most physical team we've seen.   But really well coached and great techniques.   It's football.   Getting off blocks and breaking tackles.   That's what we'll have to do as linebackers.  
   
 Q.   Did you like practice this close to the big game?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   Yeah, I did.   I think guys responded really well.   I think I had like the most tackles I ever had in a five‑minute period.   I felt like I was tackle over and over again.   That's great though, because we don't get a tackle until the Big Ten Championship.   So we set the pads, as Coach Alvarez likes to say.   So I think we'll be ready to go.  
   
 Q.   You guys probably hadn't done that before in the last two years?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   Oh, no, we've never tackled before.   
   
 Q.   What did Barry say?  
CHRIS BORLAND:   He just set we're going to set our pads.   We need a physical practice to prepare to play a physical game.   I think that's very true especially when you go up against a physical opponent.   I don't know if we would have done it had we played Oregon again, but we need it for this game.   So I think it was a good idea.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel healthy?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   Yeah, I'm fine.  
   
 Q.   Things okay with that issue?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   Yep, everything's all good.  
   
 Q.   Just talk about, I don't want to go negative, and I know you guys never think this way, but especially for the senior class, but they've lost three in a row.   It's the most winning class in school history (Indiscernible)?  
CHRIS BORLAND:   I don't know.   No, I haven't.   I'm not really going to speculate on what a potential loss would mean.   I think that's unfair to the seniors.  
   
 Q.   What would it mean to you?   
CHRIS BORLAND:   Again, I don't think it's really even right to think that way.   I can't even answer the question.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT