NHL ENTRY DRAFT
June 21, 1997
Robert Dome
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








I am a little bit surprised.

Why?  I am so happy and glad I am drafted now.

Sure I am going to play NHL next year

Why?  Because I believe it.

I don't know what they expect from me. But, I am expecting to play in the NHL, as I said.

Sometimes it was hard for me when I don't play but, I am two years in the pro and living on my own.  So I now know what is serious professional hockey.  So, it was good for me, even if I don't play very much.

I think I need to work more on defensively.

(what position) Right wing.

(speaking about Jagr) I don't know him -- I mean, I know him, but I don't know him personally. 

I was really surprised.  I was with a meeting one time, but that is it.  I don't really talk to them, so that is what surprised me.  I didn't expect that.

Montreal and Edmonton.

I don't really expect being No. 1 or No. 10.  I don't really care.  I am drafted by Pittsburgh and I am going to think about it and focus and play in NHL next year.

So, it doesn't matter to me if I am No. 1 or 27, just play next year in NHL.  And, I believe I am going to play it.

(talking about Las Vegas) I think they helped me mostly with the two teams when I was with before because they give got more ice time in the NHL, so I was really happy playing in Las Vegas.

When I got here I was 16 years old and I wanted to play professional hockey and I wanted to be ready at 18 years old guy when I play in NHL.  That is why we did that, professional hockey, and now I got four months before maybe starting camp.  So, I just got to get in the best shape in my whole life and make the team.

Of course.  IHL is a good league it better prepared me.

Sometimes physically, but you get used to it.  So there is no problem.

I never think about it playing juniors. If I want to play juniors, I can play back home juniors, so I don't want to play that.

I think I can score a lot of goals.  I think I got from both sides something, so it is hard to say.

He is in Ottawa right now.  Takes some time, I think he is going to be big star one day.  He is a good player.  Kind of a type like Jagr.  So, I mean, just take some time to get to a big star, he is still young.

I am going to go to camp.  And get ready there, get in the best shape in my whole life.

I go to Minnesota.

Who is my hero?  I think Jagr is the  best for me.

I think I will bring to the, Penguins, powerful, and, I think I am going to score some goals.  So, it is hard to say right now.

Just focus on hockey and I believe it.  I knew God helped me.  Now, I am going to make the team the next year.

Like I said, you know, I don't really care who is going to draft me because it doesn't matter to me if I was No. 1, 10, or 15 or 27.  I got Pittsburgh that draft me and I am happy that I am here right now.  So I don't really care.

Two guys from my country, it is going to be a little easier for me.

It is a good feeling when you stand up and they actually they pick me.  It is a great feeling when the people cheer for me.  I hope that this is not the last time when they cheer for me.

I think this is one of the biggest days  in my whole life.

Yeah, I am a hard worker.

You play with the older guys and you change your style of hockey too and you learn new language, so I think it is hard to sometimes to say, but, I mean, it is nothing really to say about this question.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT