WGC CA CHAMPIONSHIP
March 24, 2007
Brett Wetterich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  What went wrong with the tee shot on 18 and what went through your mind when you saw that thing sailing?   
 BRETT WETTERICH:  Yeah, on 18, you can't hit it in the water.  You're going to make a big number if you hit it there.  I kind of aimed just down the left side and I hit it, and it went a little further right than I wanted it to.  I think it hit the cart path.   
 But I had a good shot into the green.   
  
  Q.  Tiger was just talking yesterday about he had pretty good up-and-downs or pretty good par putts on 9 and 18 and he thought that meant more psychologically than the easy birdie.  Is it hard to think of coming away from there feeling any better than you do right now?   
 BRETT WETTERICH:  No, I feel really good right now, to make a par, and I don't know how long the putt was, but it was a decent par putt.  And then to come back and make it for par -- it kind of just makes your whole day.  It gives you like a sense of like, hey, I played well today and I got to make that last putt.   
  
  Q.  When you wake up today, do you know that you have to get to a certain number?   
 BRETT WETTERICH:  No, I don't think like that.  I go out and try to hit as many good shots as I can, to make as many birdies as I can, and where that takes me at the end of the day, that's it.   
  
  Q.  What do you think it is about Tiger that he does rarely back up?   
 BRETT WETTERICH:  I wish I knew.  I don't know.  You'll have to ask him that.   
  
  Q.  Getting back to 18, is it maybe because of a score like that, you know, birdie a good shot -- but you had to work for that one.   
 BRETT WETTERICH:  Definitely had to work for it, and like you said, par on that hole, I'll take par every day and not even play the hole.   
 Hit a couple squirrely shots and to come up with par, to make the par putt, it makes me feel really good.  It's going to hopefully carry on into tomorrow.  I have confidence in my putter and hopefully I can hit some good shots.   
  
  Q.  What will you have on your mind the most tomorrow, having won at a pretty good course with a pretty good field?   
 BRETT WETTERICH:  To me, I've only done it once.  It's not like I'm a veteran at winning.  I guess what I can take away from it is you've got to stay patient and try to do your own thing, and you can't really worry that much about what other guys are doing.   
  
  Q.  Did anything happen during the Ryder Cup that you learned that you think you'll be able to apply tomorrow?   
 BRETT WETTERICH:  Geez, you know, I don't know.  I think it's definitely a different animal.  It's kind of hard to compare the two.   
  
  Q.  How hard is it not to press when you see guys getting 10, 11 tomorrow, maybe 12-under?   
 BRETT WETTERICH:  If that's the case, then yeah, you have to.  You can't sit back and be happy with making pars.  You've got to start shooting at some flags and making birdies.  If not, you're going to fall behind.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT