THE RYDER CUP MATCHES
September 22, 2006
Brett Wetterich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








SCOTT CROCKETT:  Brett, thank you very much for coming down and joining us.  A hard morning out there, obviously not the result you personally wanted, but give us your thoughts on the match against Sergio and José Maria and your first match in Ryder Cup competition.
BRETT WETTERICH:  I was a little disappointed with the way I played today.  David played really well out there, and I didn't help him out on too many holes I don't think.

Overall, you know, I enjoyed it as much as I could, and hopefully I can rebound from this and go out and play good tomorrow.
SCOTT CROCKETT:  And the atmosphere, give us your actual take on what it was like.
BRETT WETTERICH:  It's something I'm not used to.  There's a lot of people out there.  I was a little nervous on the first tee, but after we got going, I felt good.  I just didn't hit any good, quality shots.  So, what are you going to do.
Q.  Once you get going playing, do the nerves kind of go away the same way they do in other big tournaments?
BRETT WETTERICH:  Yeah, I mean, they did for me.  I was a little nervous, maybe the entire first hole, maybe a little on the second.  But after about three holes or so, you know, it felt like everything was normal and I wasn't feeling nervous at all.  I just wasn't swinging good at it.

You know, I don't know what else to say.
Q.  Can you describe what the crowd was like, besides being big?  You've never been in this situation before; how does it compare to the cheering and maybe lack thereof at a regular Tour event?
BRETT WETTERICH:  They were pretty loud.  When Sergio and Ollie were making putts for birdies, you certainly heard them.

I'm definitely not used to that.  I haven't been around crowds that big before.  But it's fun, you know, and it's not as loud when we do something good but that's to be expected.
Q.  Was there any    in your match was there any cheering when something bad happened?
BRETT WETTERICH:  No, I didn't have any of that.
Q.  In your opinion, was it necessary to play lift, clean and place this morning?  Did it come into effect at all?
BRETT WETTERICH:  You know, that's not up to me.  You know, I don't get to make those decisions, so I'll do what they tell us to do.  I had mud on my ball, so it could have hurt me, I don't know, since we picked them up and cleaned them.  But I definitely had a little bit of mud on my ball a few times.  I wasn't in the fairway very much.  (Laughing).
Q.  Your group got to the first tee about five or six minutes before your time, which no other groups did.  Was that a problem, just hanging around for that much time?
BRETT WETTERICH:  Not for me.  I like getting there early.  I'd rather be there early and stand around and get ready and kind of joke a little bit.  I'm not    I don't know, you know, for any reason why we were there that early.  To me, that's not early.  That's late.
Q.  Hanging on the first tee, was it more or less demanding than you thought it might be, given what you've seen at the Ryder Cup?
BRETT WETTERICH:  The tee shot?
Q.  The whole experience on the tee.
BRETT WETTERICH:  You know, it was nerve wracking a little bit.  It was what I expected it to be, all of the nerves and everybody standing up lined up all the way down.  So I kind of knew that's what it was going to be like, but I didn't really expect it to be to that magnitude.
Q.  Can you put a few words to your opponents, how they played today?
BRETT WETTERICH:  They played great today.  They made a lot of birdies.  They were both hitting good shots into the greens to give themselves chances, and they missed a few, too, that they could have made.  So there wasn't a whole lot that we could really do.  They made a lot of birdies and that's what you're supposed to do.  They played great.
Q.  A lot has been made of Tiger playing here and how he struggles in match play.  He did not play very well today.  I know you didn't see any of it.  But they did eke out a point.  How important is that point, not just because it's the first full point you get, but because he gets a win?
BRETT WETTERICH:  I think any point is important, no matter who gets it or not.

I'm sure they are glad, if Tiger didn't play well and they made a point out of it, I think everybody's got to feel good about that on our side.  Because when he does start playing good, he's No. 1 player in the world.  So, you never know.
Q.  Sergio has been known to get on the nerves of his opponents at the Ryder Cup.  Anything out there, any gamesmanship or funny remarks?
BRETT WETTERICH:  I didn't see any of that.
Q.  Two things.  First, how eager are you to get back out there; and second, Tom made the point yesterday when he announced the pairings that he deliberately put you with David to put a rookie with a veteran who has had some experience here and also as a guy that's got a notoriously even keel constitution.  Did you and David talk out there?
BRETT WETTERICH:  We talked a little out there.  He told me to just stay patient and focus on what you need to do.  David played great today.  He made a lot of birdies and he made a lot of clutch birdies when we really needed them.  I just didn't help him out much today.

What was your other one?
Q.  How eager are you to get back out there?
BRETT WETTERICH:  I'm eager to get back out there.  I think it's important to get me back out there, to let me know that he still has confidence to go out there and play well.
Q.  I know you had to focus on what you were doing out there, but what sense did you get from the other matches?  Do you know what's going on in the other three while you're out there?
BRETT WETTERICH:  Every now and then you look up and you'll see the board, but I didn't pay too much attention to that.  I had enough problems as it was just trying to keep my own game in check.
Q.  Now that it's over, what do you think this morning for the American team, how do you feel about how this morning went?
BRETT WETTERICH:  I mean, a little disappointed, I'm sure.  We're down 2½ to 1½.  But at the same time, we didn't kill ourselves, we're only a point down.  So anything can happen in the afternoon, also.
SCOTT CROCKETT:  Brett, appreciate your time and good luck.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT