VALERO TEXAS OPEN
May 15, 2010
Brett Wetterich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   COLIN MURRAY: All right. Brett, that's for joining us here in the interview room at the Valero Texas Open. A 4-under 68 today following your 3-under 69 on Thursday. Finished with three straight birdies today. If you could just talk about the round today and we'll open it for questions.
 BRETT WETTERICH: Obviously turned out, you know, good round. Little slow in the beginning, bogey and birdie on the front-9 and then back-9 started hitting some shots in there that had some good chances to make some birdies and putts fell for me. 
 I missed a few, couple four-footers I think for par on that same side, I think, but other than that, I can't complain about today. It was a good round.
 COLIN MURRAY: Mind take taking us through your birdies and bogies?
 BRETT WETTERICH: 6, darn it. You guys kill me with this. I never remember the holes. 6, I hit it -- I hit it just short of the green and blew it by and I guess you want to call it 3 putted, a 3 putt, I guess. 8, par 5, right? Is that a par 5? Can't even think of the darn holes. Anyway, made birdie (laughter).
 10, I chipped one in from just right off the green. 11, I hit one in there pretty darn close, about a couple feet, made that.
 Par 3, three-putted. Next hole, par 5, I was just off the green, pretty long putt and I put it up to a foot or so, made that. 
 Next hole I missed -- chipped it up to about four feet and missed it. Then coming in, obviously hit one in there close on 16, about six feet or so, made that, and 17, I was in there about two, three feet or so, and made a nice putt on 18 that was probably one of 12, 15 feet.
 COLIN MURRAY: Perfect.

 Q. Almost five inches of rain here in less than 18 hours, and can you talk about the conditions of the course compared to the first round after all that happened?
 BRETT WETTERICH: It was wet but it wasn't nearly as wet as I thought it was going to be. The greens were still pretty firm, still bouncing and skipping pretty good. 
 Few wet areas, but other than that, you know, the hardest thing would have been the bunkers. I think I was in one today. Other than that, you know, I thought the course was pretty darn good for having that much rain.

 Q. Lot of discussion about the course, in particular, the greens. In fact, headline on one of the on-line sites is that it was too hard. You managed it pretty well over two rounds. 
 What do you think of this new course overall?
 BRETT WETTERICH: If you're playing the course good, you like it. If you're playing it terrible you're going to find things terrible to say about it. I have managed it around there pretty good.
 Patrick and I have been talking about our shots and making sure we're doing the right thing. But, yeah, I mean you can get in some spots where people wouldn't be happy about you know, how the greens are but, you know, the greens are what they are. 
 You're going to gripe about it, I think that's more advantage for other people that aren't and just kind of going with the flow.

 Q. How is your shoulder feeling?
 BRETT WETTERICH: Shoulder is fine. Wrist is what's been bothering me. That's why I withdrew from Hilton Head was the wrist. Went and got an MRI, fine, just inflammation. Took three weeks off. I went and got in The Players but I took Quail Hollow and whatever was before that, I can't remember, New Orleans, I took those two weeks off. So I had a three week stretch I didn't do too much and the wrist feels fine now.

 Q. How did you hurt the wrist or was that an extension of the previous --
BRETT WETTERICH: I didn't do anything abnormal. I was playing my Monday Pro-Am and got to the 15th hole, hit a driver and kind of felt something funny. I hit another one and that was pretty much it. Thank God it was just inflammation and nothing was torn or anything.

 Q. Which wrist was it?
 BRETT WETTERICH: Right.

 Q. To be in the position that you are now after all you've been through as far as the shoulder and the comeback and anything like that, how important would it be this weekend, obviously tomorrow, 36 holes looks like, what would it mean to you to try to win this thing?
 BRETT WETTERICH: I mean, you know, first I want to finish out the next two rounds and if that should take me to winning the golf tournament or finishing in the Top-10, you know, I think either -- winning obviously is what I want but, you know, I think a Top-10 finish at this point in time for me being my fourth tournament back I think is pretty darn good.

 Q. Have you surprised yourself?
 BRETT WETTERICH: I'm not surprised but, you know, I don't know if I expected to be where I am at this point, how I'm playing. I think I'm playing a lot better than what I thought I would be for my fourth tournament back and having three weeks off previous to this one, you know, it's coming back a little easier to me than I thought it would, for sure.

 Q. What were your expectations after taking three weeks off?
 BRETT WETTERICH: I was hitting the ball good. I knew I was hitting it good enough to make the cut. I didn't think I would be sitting here right now with you guys, that's for sure. If I said I thought I would be here, I'm lying.
 But you know, it's a good feeling to be sitting here and kind of get back into the flow of things being out here and playing.

 Q. How frustrating was it after yet a couple great years and then the injuries?
 BRETT WETTERICH: Very. First coming back, in '08, the first injury I had was my shoulder. That sidelined me for however long. Then got healthy from that and had to get wrist surgery and then I'm out for -- until Honda. 
 So it was almost a year and whatever, over a year and a half. It was frustrating. At first it was fun, I was having a great time just hanging out and not doing anything. Then, you know my wife and I had our daughter, Mia, it was kind of nice to be there and be there for her, you know, for that whole experience. That was nice. Kind of a blessing in a way but it was still frustrating, you know, after year and a half of not being able to play. 

 Q. Brett very nicely done, 68 to follow a 69.
 BRETT WETTERICH: It was nice. You know, I got off -- actually had a tough time getting here today almost didn't make it but, yeah --
Q. Tell me that story.
 BRETT WETTERICH: I'm staying off-site at a friend's house. Each way I went there's one-way and another way out and both ways the roads are blocked with water and had the barriers. I put it in four-wheel drive and straight through. Got here in enough time, about a half hour to spare. 
 But the first 9 kind of slow, one birdie and a bogey. Picked up for me on the back-9. Had a lot of birdies.

 Q. 16, 17 and 18 coming in. That's a great run.
 BRETT WETTERICH: 18, you can get it but waiting to see if we need to have to go for it or not but yeah, I mean they're there. 17 is a birdie hole and 16 hit a good shot in there. You never know.

 Q. Let's talk about you for a minute. It's been a long way back. We haven't seen you for a couple years. How are you feeling?
 BRETT WETTERICH: I'm feeling better. I had my days, you know. Not a hundred percent but I'm pretty darn close, I think. Game seems to be coming around a bit. Still need to work a little bit on putting but other than that, I feel pretty good.

 Q. How hard is it to stay focused when the most important thing you can probably do is do nothing and it's got to be really tough?
 BRETT WETTERICH: It was easy for a month or so. You know, it did get old and it kind of got frustrating when I thought I was ready to come back and had a little setback again. So it's nice to be out here again. I had to withdraw from Hilton Head but this week my wrist feels good.

 Q. The wrist now --
BRETT WETTERICH: That's what it pretty much always has been.

 Q. Ryder Cup year. This is about the time four years ago when you got it going and you won at Byron, played great at Memorial, all of a sudden, boom, you're on the team.
 BRETT WETTERICH: It definitely can happen. It's definitely going to be a lot tougher, I think, obviously now than it was. I'll go out and play and see what happens. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT