THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT
June 4, 2006
Brett Wetterich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Brett, for joining us for a few minutes.  Another great finish.  You had a great couple of weeks here, and I just heard you say out there, "It's a lot of fun to play well in Mr. Nicklaus's tournament."  Talk about being back in position to win.
BRETT WETTERICH:  It's nice.  Anytime you have a chance to win, actually play good, and not fall way down the stretch, it's a good feeling.  I'm playing good right now.  The past six weeks, it seems like everything has fallen into place for me.  I just hope that ride continues for me.
Q.  Why in the last six weeks?
BRETT WETTERICH:  I don't know.  I've been asked that before, and I don't know if it's just confidence or    I know a lot of it has to do with making a few more putts than I have been in the past year and a half or so.  If I had to contribute it to anything it would be that.
Q.  Did any get away from you today?
BRETT WETTERICH:  You know, I made a bad swing on 16 and I got away with it by chipping it in.  And I made just a bad bogey on    what was it    13.  I tried to go at that pin, and where I missed it you were dead.  I didn't catch the greatest of lies in the bunker, and there you have it.
Q.  Any secret dealing with all the rain delays this week?
BRETT WETTERICH:  No.  I just    the one day we just all hung out in the locker room, having fun, laughing and giggling.  I'll just hang around, it's no big deal to me.  Gives me some time to get some extra sleep.  I don't mind it.
Q.  Did you hear or see any of your buddies today out on the course?
BRETT WETTERICH:  Yeah, you see and hear them.  I try not to pay too much attention to it, and get caught up in all that.  But you do hear them and see them walking by.
Q.  How big a contingent was out?
BRETT WETTERICH:  Oh, I don't know, 30 maybe.  That's just the people that    maybe not even that many, but I'm sure that there's a few more than what I know was there, just say 20 originally and then maybe it grew a little.
Q.  How do you feel about playing 36 holes tomorrow?
BRETT WETTERICH:  I'm not looking forward to it.  I played 27 holes yesterday and 18 today    or 19 today and 36 tomorrow.  So it's going to be kind of grueling out there.  Hopefully there's no rain.
Q.  How many times have you tried to qualify for The Open?
BRETT WETTERICH:  Since I was a kid, 15, 14 years old, I guess.
Q.  Every one since then?
BRETT WETTERICH:  Except for the years    the two years that I was hurt, that would be about it.
Q.  And you made it once, '98?
BRETT WETTERICH:  Yes.
Q.  Your dad said that was as nervous as you've ever been at The Open?
BRETT WETTERICH:  On the first tee.  I've been on that stage before, and it was just tree lined straight down, you know.  I definitely took a few extra waggles at that tournament, that's for sure.
Q.  Will you take a different mindset into this qualifying than ever before?
BRETT WETTERICH:  No.  I'm obviously a better player than I was a couple of years ago.  I'm not going to take it any different, just try to play like I did today, maybe not    I'm not going to maybe let things worry me as much, playing the 36 hole qualifier as it would out here, so it might be a benefit.
Q.  Are you giving any thought at all to Ryder Cup points these days?
BRETT WETTERICH:  It's obviously an important thing, everybody wants to play for their country and represent them.  But there's still plenty of tournaments left.  Any number of guys could get into the top 10.  If I can just keep going out and playing solid golf, if I happen to be in the top 10 at the end of the year, or when they stop the points, then I'll be more than happy.
Q.  Is there any perspective yet for you, six months ago you're in Q School and scuffling to get back out.  And now people are asking you to be on the Ryder Cup team?
BRETT WETTERICH:  I wouldn't say scuffling.  I finished 23rd and 10th on the Nationwide money list on the two years I laid there.  Last year, I just missed my card.  It wasn't a great, great year, but it wasn't awful.  But it's nice to be playing good and win on the PGA TOUR, and then have three other top 10s the other weeks, in the six week span, it's nice.
Q.  Is it important for you to follow up a win with another good finish?
BRETT WETTERICH:  Yeah, because you don't have to maybe    maybe people will say, "Maybe it wasn't just he had a good week that week, or you just had three good weeks and now we'll see what he does."  And you miss the cut the following week.  But to come back the next tournament and finish second or third or whatever it's going to be, it's a good feeling and hopefully people will take notice.
Q.  Was there a time when the Ryder Cup thing became more in focus for you, was it victory or
BRETT WETTERICH:  I've never paid a bit of attention to it until I won, and someone happened to say, "Hey, you're 10th."  Or whatever I ended up going to at the time.  I thought they were kidding and just kind of looked at it on the computer.  I still haven't followed it that closely, to be honest with you.
Q.  Is that something that might change your schedule as you get closer to the deadline, do you think?
BRETT WETTERICH:  No, I'm still going to play the tournaments I'm going to play in.  I'm not going to play 7 tournaments in a row to try to make the team.  I'd be burned out by then.  I'm going to stick to my schedule, and if it works out for me, it does.
Q.  If you qualify for The Open, how might this week have helped you play The Open?
BRETT WETTERICH:  On, probably not.  I played good.  The only thing I can say is I'm playing good now and maybe that will carry over to tomorrow.  That would be about it.  This course is obviously going to be totally different than the two courses we're playing tomorrow.
Q.  You have like an 8:50 time tomorrow morning?
BRETT WETTERICH:  Yes.
Q.  And then you bus over to the other one?
BRETT WETTERICH:  I guess, I've never been here before.
Q.  But it's two separate courses?
BRETT WETTERICH:  Yes.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT