EDS BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 13, 2006
Brett Wetterich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  General thoughts?
BRETT WETTERICH:  I feel pretty good.  I struggled a little bit today, came out even par and to only be one shot behind, I think that's pretty good.
Q.  You've had a lot of experience now to draw on.  You've been in contention a number of times at tournaments.  Do you feel like that's something you can start drawing on on Sundays?
BRETT WETTERICH:  I haven't been there that much.  I think there's always something you can take from previous times you had a chance to win or have been in the last group.  There's always something that you're going to take with you.

But like I said yesterday, I'm just going to try to be patient like I was today.  I thought I did a pretty good job of it and I wasn't making a lot of putts.  I thought I got maybe one or two bad breaks, and I hung in there.  That's all I can ask for.
Q.  I would think that would have been a real challenge today when Adam had his spot there where he looked like he might run away.
BRETT WETTERICH:  Yeah, he started off pretty hot.  I had a bogey and birdie my front nine and the rest pars, and he might have shot 3  or 4 under on the front nine.  It was a little frustrating, but you've got to pay attention to your own game and sooner or later it will change.
Q.  Do you see Tiger Woods in his swing when he swings?  Do you see the same action?
BRETT WETTERICH:  I don't know.  I don't pay too much attention to that.
Q.  Did you sense his demeanor change after he started hitting the reverse button there?
BRETT WETTERICH:  Not really.  I mean, same to me all day long.
Q.  Just your demeanor changed, huh?
BRETT WETTERICH:  Yeah, I kind of go up and down.  That's just the way I am.  I'll always be that way, I guess.  I don't know if it's good or bad, but it's just how I am.
Q.  We're supposed to have some interesting weather tomorrow.  What kind of a weather player are you?
BRETT WETTERICH:  I try not to gripe about it too much.  We've got to go out and play.  I think the more you gripe about it, the worse it is.
Q.  Do you feel like you're one of the better wind players or an average wind player?
BRETT WETTERICH:  I don't mind playing in the wind.  I play a lot in it in south Florida, so I don't mind the wind too much.  I don't really like the rain all that much, but I don't mind the wind.
Q.  Good finishes lately, Top 10s, good shot at the lead here.  What has been the key to that whole run?
BRETT WETTERICH:  Putting.  Today I didn't shoot a great score, I didn't make the putts, and the previous rounds that I've played well, like yesterday, I made some putts.  I hit some decent shots today, but I just didn't capitalize on them.
Q.  This tournament I guess you had the north wind which is unusual the first day, then you had a couple calm days, the wind came back in from the south yesterday, and now possible rain.  Have you had a tournament recently or do you have to go back and experience to find a tournament where you had three or four different conditions depending on the day?
BRETT WETTERICH:  No, not that I can remember.  I have a hard time remembering when I made my birdies yesterday.
Q.  As a golfer do you have to go in with the mindset you have to game plan a little differently?
BRETT WETTERICH:  Yeah, when you get here in the morning you see how it is, you know where the wind is coming from so you kind of plan your day around that.
Q.  What is the biggest thing that you've learned for yourself in terms of how to handle being in contention with the chances you've had lately?
BRETT WETTERICH:  I don't think I do too much different than I do any other time.  I haven't been there much.  I don't know, I don't really do too much.  I don't think about it that much, I guess.
Q.  You know, tomorrow the lead pairing you have Adam and Trevor, who have been childhood friends.  They talked about being friends.  As a golfer, is that a benefit, or does it matter when you play with someone who you're comfortable with or you know?
BRETT WETTERICH:  I'm sure it helps.  I don't talk much when I'm out there, so I think it's got to help.  You know, you're a little loose, and if you've got a good friend there with you, he might know that you're a little irritated and joke and talk to you a little bit and calm you back down, so yeah, I guess it would help.
Q.  How do you think the weather is going to affect the greens?  They've been slow pretty much all week.
BRETT WETTERICH:  I think they've got a decent speed to them.  I don't think they're that slow.  There's some spots where you're going to get to where you've got to watch what you're doing.  I don't think it'll change them that much; they'll just be softer.
Q.  Golf is full of stories of guys like you who have had Top 10s recently who fare well, Trevor last week, playoff, continuing.  Is that momentum due to confidence?  Is it due to a groove to the swing?  Is it a combination?
BRETT WETTERICH:  I think it's probably a combination.  You get a couple good tournaments in a row, now all of a sudden you're thinking you've got a good chance to win if you just keep doing the same things that you've been doing.  It's definitely a confidence builder.

For me it's not    I hit the ball pretty much the same a lot, it's just getting it in the hole and putting for me, that's my biggest thing.
Q.  Is there something with the putting, any changes you made recently?
BRETT WETTERICH:  No, I haven't made any changes.  They've just been falling.  I can't explain it; that's just how I am, streaky like that.
Q.  Would you rather have Adam's swing or his hair?
BRETT WETTERICH:  (Laughing) I guess his hair.  I think my swing is all right.  I'm not saying I've got the best golf swing out here, but it works.
Q.  Are you a guy who struggles with your confidence at all, or is that a pretty consistent thing for you?
BRETT WETTERICH:  No, I don't struggle with my confidence.  I get too mad at times, that's my biggest thing.  I need to be more calm out there and learn to take the bad breaks with the good ones, and I struggle with that sometimes.
Q.  Where does that hurt you?  Can you give an example?
BRETT WETTERICH:  I just think once I get that mindset, I just think the whole course is against me, and instead of just trying to focus on the next hole, I tend to get a little    maybe play a little faster than I normally would, not think as much, just kind of grab clubs and hit them.
Q.  Did you play some other sports growing up?
BRETT WETTERICH:  Just about everything growing up.
Q.  In high school?
BRETT WETTERICH:  I played basketball in high school, and I played everything up until then.
Q.  I mean, is it a tough adjustment?  Obviously you look like you're athletic.  Every other sport emotion is such a big factor and you kind of use that for you, and golf kind of works against you.
BRETT WETTERICH:  I don't know, I don't think it was an adjustment, I'm just hot headed.
Q.  Was there a point today when you thought you might snap and didn't and kind of worked your way through it?
BRETT WETTERICH:  I'll tell you, on the 11th hole I made a good putt for par there, and I was close.  I was close to going off the deep end.  Not off the deep end, but I got a little upset that hole.  And then the next hole I got another bad break, so that would have been a bad thing for me.
Q.  Upset because    what was it at 11?
BRETT WETTERICH:  Well, 11 I just hit it in the fairway bunker and then I had a really bad bunker shot coming up.  It wasn't easy, you've just got to hit it on the green and hope you make your par.
Q.  Do you internalize or let it out or throw a club or break a club or what?
BRETT WETTERICH:  I don't break clubs.  I'm more vocal, I guess.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT