EDS BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 13, 2005
Brett Wetterich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TODD BUDNICK:  We welcome Brett Wetterich after a 3-under 67, has him at 9-under through two rounds of the EDS Byron Nelson Championship.  Brett, four birdies and a bogey today, not a bad day out there.
BRETT WETTERICH:  No, it was a good day.  You know, it was pretty windy out there, so I'll take 3-under every day in that kind of a wind.
TODD BUDNICK:  Talk about your season a little bit.  It's kind of been hit-or-miss for you this year, just two cuts, but you've made the most of those with a T6 and a T20, and again, you're playing well here this week.
BRETT WETTERICH:  I've just been struggling, making a few putts here and there.  That's what's the difference I think in my game.  I'm always going to hit it a little off-line every now and then, but it's just making a few putts.  And it seems like the two cuts that I've made and this cut I've made some putts that not only sometimes should you make them, but the ones -- the 15- to 20-footers that you don't make all the time, I've made a few of them.
TODD BUDNICK:  Looks like you'll share the second round lead with Sean O'Hair, which you held the second round lead at the Honda Classic earlier and shared the third round, so you've got a little bit of experience at the top of the leaderboard.
BRETT WETTERICH:  A little bit.  I wouldn't say too much.  I've been there before, and I don't -- I'm not that used to being in this position, but hopefully things will go well and I'll go out and play decent golf.
TODD BUDNICK:  Talk about that.  Most of the guys out here who have gone on to win have said it takes a couple times to go through that experience.
BRETT WETTERICH:  I would have to think so.  This is only my second time and it's not even Sunday.  It's only Friday.  I've still got a lot of work to do tomorrow to get to play in the last group on Sunday.  But I've just got to go out there and be patient like I have the last couple days and hopefully the putts will keep falling.
Q.  How do you think you handled it at Honda?
BRETT WETTERICH:  I thought I handled myself pretty well there.  I had one bad hole, and I don't think it was from me trying to do anything dumb.  It was just a bad break in my mind.  That's going to happen.  I would do the same thing again.
Q.  So basically you feel comfortable with --
BRETT WETTERICH:  I feel comfortable, yeah.  I don't feel like I get nervous.  There might be a few times where I've felt a little bit -- not queasy but felt a little bit anxious or whatever.
Q.  You've faced a really good field here this week with the Top 5 players and 17 of the top 30 in the world.  I just wonder if that does something for your confidence that you've got something that they don't right now?
BRETT WETTERICH:  I mean, I feel good.  I've definitely done something different than the rest of the field has except for I guess Sean O'Hair.  There's still two days, you know.  I could fall back just as easily as I can keep going at the pace that I am.  I'm just going to try to look beyond that.
Q.  Was there anything you picked out of your experience the weekend at Honda where you learned "I did that and that worked pretty well so next time I'm going to do that"?
BRETT WETTERICH:  I just think I kept a pretty level head that weekend.  I didn't let things affect me too much.  I think that's the biggest thing that I took out of that.
Q.  Obviously if you knew the answer on your putting, why you're putting so well some weeks and why --
BRETT WETTERICH:  That's just my game.  That's the way it's always been.
Q.  Did you do anything different this week?
BRETT WETTERICH:  I mean, I'm still working on the same things, still use the same training aid, just different weeks it just seems to be there.
Q.  Did you get a chance to meet Byron this week?
BRETT WETTERICH:  I haven't met him yet.  I was here in '02 and I got to meet him then, but I haven't yet this week.
Q.  How do you feel these two courses fit your game?
BRETT WETTERICH:  I think the TPC fits it -- I think it fits it pretty well for me.  I don't have to hit that many drivers, I can get away with hitting 3-woods and 5-woods off the tee, so I think that benefits me in a way.  Not that I hit my driver terrible, but I'm hitting a shorter club and I think it's easier to hit fairways with.
Q.  How is your gallery this week, got a lot of people following you?
BRETT WETTERICH:  It was good on the last two holes because they're waiting for somebody else I would imagine.
TODD BUDNICK:  Let's run through your card, Brett.  The birdie on No. 2, the par 3.
BRETT WETTERICH:  Gosh, I can't even remember the holes.  I'm drawing a blank.  Oh yeah, over the water there.  I hit a 9-iron there to about 15 feet or so, somewhere in there.  Made a good right-to-left putt, made that.

No. 4, par 4, I hit a good driver there and then hit pitching wedge to about the same distance, 15, 20 feet, somewhere in there, made it.

No. 7, par 4, I hit driver just up in front of the green and pitched on with a lob wedge and made about a ten-footer, I guess.

Bogey on No. 10, bad.  I hit it in the right rough and hit it just short left in kind of that bowl and hit just an average chip and then just hit a terrible putt.

Birdie on the next hole, hit the best drive I've hit all week by far.  That was down there pretty far.  I hit 7-iron just short and chipped it up to about two feet, made it.
TODD BUDNICK:  Thank you, Brett.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT