THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 11, 2005
Brett Wetterich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOHN BUSH:  We've got Brett Wetterich, after a second consecutive bogey-free 6-under 66.

Brett, thanks for coming by, and if we could just get you to comment on your round today.
BRETT WETTERICH:  I got off to a good start today.  I birdied two-out-of-three holes in the beginning, and then I came to a stretch where I struggled a little bit and I made some real will I good pars.  My sixth, seventh, eighth holes, I made some good pars there and kept my round going.  I was pretty steady the back nine and made some good birdies and that was it, really.
JOHN BUSH:  Speaking of those birdies, if you can take us through, starting with the par 3.
BRETT WETTERICH:  The par 3, I hit 5-iron there.  I hit it to about maybe ten feet, made that.

Next hole is a par 5.  I made probably about a three or four footer.  I had to lay up and hit lob-wedge from like 60 yards there.

18, that hole is playing really tough.  I hit kind of a punch 4-iron in there to about 12 feet, I would say and then obviously made the putt there.

5, the par 5, I hit a pretty long drive there.  I hit 7-iron into that green and 2-putted it for a birdie.  It was like 192 to the front, I don't know how far the pin was on.  I was just off on the fringe.

6, I hit 3-iron and it ended up landing on the green and staying to about 25 feet probably or so and 2-putted that one.

Made a good birdie on the last hole.  Hit 5-wood, kind of 7-iron and I made probably a 15-, 20-footer I guess.
JOHN BUSH:  You took advantage of the par 5s.
BRETT WETTERICH:  I definitely did on my back side.  The first one was playing short, it was dead downwind and I hit a good drive.  The next hole was playing easier than it was yesterday and I took advantage of that one, also.
JOHN BUSH:  Questions?
Q.  The other par 5, did you have a birdie chance there, 17?
BRETT WETTERICH:  No.  I hit it just long and left there and I hit, it wasn't that tough of a chip but it wasn't the easiest of chips.  Hit it, landed off the green and rolled off the front.  And so then I hit kind of a pitch-and-run back to the pin and actually made a good par there.
Q.  Just talk about the situation, you're going to be in contention going into the weekend, can you talk about your thoughts on that?
BRETT WETTERICH:  It's nice, obviously, to be in a position to where you have a chance to shoot a couple of good rounds and maybe change your life.  (Laughter.)

But I'm going to go out there and try to play and stay focused like I did the last two days and just take them as they come.
Q.  When you say "change your life," what is at the forefront there of that thought?
BRETT WETTERICH:  Just winning on the PGA TOUR and all of the benefits that come with that.  That would definitely be a life-changing style for me.
Q.  Talk about how far you've come, last year at the Miccosukee you were right on the bubble for the Nationwide Money List; right?
BRETT WETTERICH:  I was a little out.
Q.  Just talk about the pressure and how far you've come.
BRETT WETTERICH:  I definitely have come a long way since even two years ago.  But last year, I think I learned a little bit, just to be patient out there.  I still get frustrated and aggravated at times, but I don't think it's as bad as it used to be where one little shot or one bogey just killed my round.
Q.  How does the pressure here compare with the pressure on that tour?
BRETT WETTERICH:  To me it's equally the same almost when you're in a situation like this.  You've got pressure on yourself, so you still need to go out and play good golf, whether it's here or the Nationwide Tour.
Q.  Have you gotten better at dealing with that, with more experience?
BRETT WETTERICH:  I think so.  The first time I was a little -- the first time I was in that situation I was a little nervous, and it got a little easier after that.
Q.  Can you give us an example of the added patience that you've been able to add to your game, something that may have happened today?
BRETT WETTERICH:  Just like today, for instance, you know, hitting a couple of bad shots, I got a couple of good breaks today, too, but just little around the greens that normally I would get frustrated with, hitting on the green and the ball is funneling off.  You know, you think you hit a good shot, and next thing you know, you've got a really tough up-and-down.  Just trying to be more patient in that area and still thinking, you know, I'm still going to make a par instead of going down there and grumbling saying, "Oh, I'm going to make a bogey now."
Q.  What do you have to do this weekend, what's the thing you're going to be focusing on?
BRETT WETTERICH:  Making a lot of pars.  I'm going to make that my main focus, make as many pars and hitting as many greens.  I think hitting greens out here is the most important thing.  It's nice to hit them close, but I think you need to hit a lot of greens to be successful out here.
Q.  Over the years, do you have any count of victories?
BRETT WETTERICH:  Oh, it's not many.  I'd say maybe five or six on the mini tours and two on the Nationwide and that's it.
Q.  How does that experience, grinding week-to-week, how does that help you in the long run looking back on it?
BRETT WETTERICH:  I look back and see how bad I was then for a while, and just it's nice to be able to look back and see how far I've come since I first turned professional.  So it's nice to look back and kind of see things that way.
Q.  I understand it's still early today, but your first time around, did you ever have a lead or share a lead on a PGA TOUR round?
BRETT WETTERICH:  I was -- no.  Not going into any specific -- not going into the last day or anything like that.  I might have been tied at one time during various rounds.
Q.  What do you think the next two days -- how tough will it be to put this out of your mind when you're not playing, sleeping tonight?
BRETT WETTERICH:  I'm usually pretty good like that.  I don't sleep good, anyways.

I don't think it will be too bad.  I've got a lot of family with me this week, so I'll go back to the house and relax and watch some basketball and just try to get my mind off of it.
Q.  Who caddies for you?
BRETT WETTERICH:  Patrick Tarrant.  He's been with me, this is going on our fourth year.
Q.  Didn't your brother caddie for you?
BRETT WETTERICH:  He did the first year I was out here in 2000.
JOHN BUSH:  Brett, thanks for coming by.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT