THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 10, 2005
Brett Wetterich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOE CHEMYCZ:  6-under par, one of five bogey free rounds today, 16 of 189 greens in regulation.  Talk about your play. 

BRETT WETTERICH:  It was pretty solid.  I was hitting -- obviously I hit a lot of greens.  I was hitting a lot of fairways.  I know I probably missed four or so, but they were not in bad spots.  I was hitting a lot of shots close today and making a few putts. 

JOE CHEMYCZ:  Talk about playing at home, any added pressure or different feelings you have.

BRETT WETTERICH:  I don't think it's added pressure.  I'm comfortable and I live ten minutes from here.  I'm staying at home and I've got a bunch of family with me and it's nice to come out and shoot a good round for them. 

Q.  How much do you play out here? 

BRETT WETTERICH:  I've only played here twice.  This is the second round I've played out here.

Q.  Two years ago I think it was you played -- -

BRETT WETTERICH:  I didn't finish well. 

Q.  You finished eighth. 

BRETT WETTERICH:  That was at Heron Bay three years ago.

Q.  That was yours best finish out here, what do you remember of that and is it a coincidence, it's this tournament?

BRETT WETTERICH:  I don't know if it's a coincidence, but seem to have a lot of the same feelings.  I'm driving the ball good and I hit a lot of greens that week and made a few putts, and it feels good just to have a chance.  I know it's only Thursday, but there's still three rounds to go, but it's just nice to be in a good position after a day.

Q.  You said you live close, do you live in the Gardens? 

BRETT WETTERICH:  Abacoa, Jupiter.

Q.  When you went out, Chad Campbell had the 8-under already up there and there was nobody closer than three at that point.  When you see that, are you thinking, well, 8-under is possible, or what did he do that everybody else couldn't do?

BRETT WETTERICH:  I don't know.  You know, I saw 8-under and I was like he must have played pretty darned good considering 3-under was tied for second.  He must have done something pretty good out there. 

I wasn't really thinking of a score, target score to shoot.  I just wanted to go out and just play some good golf and get some birdies and they feel.

Q.  How were conditions this afternoon?

BRETT WETTERICH:  It was a little windy, but other than that it was perfect.

Q.  The second round here, would the other one be earlier this week, practice round? 

BRETT WETTERICH:  I played the Monday Pro-Am this week. 

Q.  That was it? 

BRETT WETTERICH:  Mm-hmm. 

Q.  When you first came out here, you talked about how you probably just weren't really ready for that; do you feel like you are ready now and you belong out here?

BRETT WETTERICH:  I definitely feel like I belong out here.  I had two, in my mind, really good years on the Nationwide Tour, just missing the first year and finishing 10th last year.  I think I gained a lot of experience in the last two years by playing the Nationwide Tour.  So I feel like I belong here and it's just being able to get the chances to play. 

Q.  You also played the Golden Bear Tour; right?

BRETT WETTERICH:  Three years. 

Q.  Were you Player of the Year?

BRETT WETTERICH:  No. 

Q.  Won The Tour Championship? 

BRETT WETTERICH:  I finished second the last year I played on the Money List.  

Q.  Did you play Gold Coast back?

BRETT WETTERICH:  Gold Coast, Sunshine Tour, South Florida Tour, Golden Bear, you name it.

Q.  Did you have any of those former mini-tour guys out here watching you today?

BRETT WETTERICH:  I saw a friend of mine, Curt, that was out there walking around.  Other than that, you know, I really didn't notice too many people. 

I guess on the Golden Bear, they are kind of doing their own thing.  I don't think they want to come out and watch me play.  I wouldn't.  (Laughter)

Q.
According to ShotLink, 16 is playing the toughest today and you parred it.  What's it playing like? 

BRETT WETTERICH:  It didn't play that hard for me today.  I hit driver, 9-iron into it.  So I didn't think it was playing too tough.  And I hit a good putt, I just didn't make it.  I can see where there would be trouble though.  You get in those right bunkers and hit it a little left into that left bunker, I can see getting into some trouble, but I happened to hit a good tee ball there. 

Q.  Between 10 and 18, how many other birdie opportunities did you have? 

BRETT WETTERICH:  I hit a couple of good ones coming in.  17, I hit a good putt at it.  The second par three on the back nine, I had four or five feet and missed it.  And I hit a good putt on 16 and didn't make it, and had a short one in on the last one and got it in there.

Q.  What was the last one? 

BRETT WETTERICH:  Probably three feet, something like that. 

JOE CHEMYCZ:  Let's go through your card, all birdies starting at 1. 

BRETT WETTERICH:  Hit driver there and a lob-wedge, I had like 67 yards to about six feet, somewhere around there and made that one.

3, I hit it in there about -- I hit 7-iron there.  It was pretty close, like four or five feet again, and made that.

6, I hit driver, laid up short into the bunker and hit sand wedge out of the bunker to about eight, ten feet and made it.

9, I hit it in there good.  I hit 5-wood, 8-iron into there and had about probably five feet. 

10, 3-iron off the tee, a little wedge to about probably 12 feet or so. 

18, I hit driver, 9-iron. 

Q.  Would you ever try and drive 10?  Is 10 drivable at all? 

BRETT WETTERICH:  No, I would never hit driver there. 

Q.  Any big saves?

BRETT WETTERICH:  I had a few good -- it was 13 or 14, I had to make a good up-and-down.  I made like probably a 5-, 6-footer for par there. 

Other than that, I really can't think of another one or a hole that I really struggled on.  I might have hit a 3-footer for par one time.

Q.  Is that 13 or 14? 

BRETT WETTERICH:  14, I think it was.  If 15 was the par 3, it was 14 that I made it. 

JOE CHEMYCZ:  Thanks, Brett. 


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT