DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 3, 2007
Brett Wetterich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   STEWART MOORE:  Brett Wetterich, thanks for spending a few moments with us here briefly after your round after a T2 finish out there.  You move up to 22nd in the FedExCup points race, headed into Chicago next week for the BMW Championship.  Obviously a pretty exciting day, especially with the two ahead of you guys.  What was it like to get wrapped up and chasing down two of the best players in the world? 
 BRETT WETTERICH:  Gosh, you know, you see what's going on and you hear things.  You hear the roars and whatever, but you've still got to try to put that out of your mind and go out there and hit the best shots you can and hopefully make a putt. 
 You know, that's all you can do.  You can't really pay too much attention to that. 
 STEWART MOORE:  You're one of these players out here who can get on a hot streak and make a lot of birdies quickly.  You get out there today and your first birdie doesn't come until 16.  Was that a bizarre situation for you? 
 BRETT WETTERICH:  It was frustrating because I think I probably hit the ball better than I have all year today.  I don't know if I missed a fairway, and I probably hit 16 greens, I think, 16, 15, greens, and then it was just frustrating not to be able to make a 10-footer or 12-footer, and the long bogey on the par 5, that was really disappointing.  But I bounced back.  I thought, good, I hung in there, and then birdied two out of my last three, so I'm happy, I guess. 

 Q.  What is it like to know you open the day with the lead, to know that players of that caliber are lurking there behind you? 
 BRETT WETTERICH:  Well, at least I'm not chasing them, you know?  It's a good feeling, but I also know I have to play well.  I know I can't shoot even or 1-under and win the golf tournament.  I know I've got to shoot at least 3- or 4-under with that lead, and I didn't do it today, but hopefully I can learn something from today, like how to make a putt. 

 Q.  Did you feel you were putting poorly or they just weren't going in? 
 BRETT WETTERICH:  You know, some I hit -- I hit really good strokes that I thought I hit good strokes on and ran them over the holes, and others I thought I was pulling a bit.  For the most part I hit a few good ones, but most of them were bad. 

 Q.  Talk about the second hole.  You mentioned it was disappointing; obviously there was a lot of time spent there before the fourth shot.  Talk about what happened there. 
 BRETT WETTERICH:  I hit pitching wedge in.  I had like 153, and we thought the wind was pretty good downwind, and I can hit my pitching wedge that far, and I hit it perfect.  It was going right at it, and come up just short.  We couldn't -- I wasn't sure -- I watched it pretty good the whole way, and I wasn't sure if it crossed or not, and Arron, he felt that it didn't cross, so there's -- we had to come to a common ground, and I wasn't sure enough to say, yeah, it did, and maybe it didn't.  So I went back and dropped it and went on. 

 Q.  Who made the decision, the final decision? 
 BRETT WETTERICH:  Ultimately me.  You know, Arron said his piece and how he felt, and I wasn't sure, so I went back. 

 Q.  Were you paying attention to what all the guys were doing all the way around, or were you just trying to stay in your own world? 
 BRETT WETTERICH:  I didn't start paying attention to be honest until like 12 or -- what is it, 11 right there, there's a board right there on 11.  I was looking at that, at 11, so probably from like 11 on I was pretty aware of what was going on. 

 Q.  Did the wind cause any effect on some of your putts, or no? 
 BRETT WETTERICH:  No, I wish I could blame it on that, or a spike mark or something. 

 Q.  The head-to-head battle, if you had to pick one, would you take Tiger or Phil? 
 BRETT WETTERICH:  To play against head-to-head? 

 Q.  No, if they were playing each other, who would you pick? 
 BRETT WETTERICH:  I'm not going to answer that. 

 Q.  I figured I'd ask. 
 BRETT WETTERICH:  (Smiling.) 
 STEWART MOORE:  Great playing this week.  Thanks for taking the time to come in and speak with us. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT