THE DEUTSCHE BANK PLAYERS' CHAMPIONSHIP OF EUROPE
July 25, 2007
Brett Wetterich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   BRETT WETTERICH 
 MODERATOR:  Thanks very much for coming in and joining us and.  Welcome to the Deutsche Bank Players' Championship.  Your first trip to Germany.  What are your expectations coming here this week?  
 BRETT WETTERICH: Hopefully have a good week playing.  I mean that's my biggest and most important thing is to be able to come here and have a good tournament and try to win it.  But if not, still play as well as I can, and then enjoy myself off the golf course.  
 We're staying downtown.  We've been walking around a little bit and it's been nice. 
 MODERATOR:  You've got a nice group of your friends from the U.S. Tour out here as well.  The atmosphere is good and enjoying yourselves this week?  
 BRETT WETTERICH: We've been all kind of hanging out down at the hotel and going out to dinner and stuff.  It's been nice having dinners and a few drinks here and there and having some fun. 
 MODERATOR:  Your form coming into this week, from Carnousties, and for the season so far, can you sum that up for us?  
 BRETT WETTERICH: So far this year I started off playing pretty well.  I've had some good tournaments early on in the U.S. and it's kind of leveled out a little bit.  Kind of been struggling a little bit putting.  I think if I can get that straightened out that everything should be okay.  
 MODERATOR:  We'll take some questions.  

 Q.  Can you talk about your experience of Carnoustie? 
 BRETT WETTERICH: It was a good experience.  The golf course was hard but very fair. The grass wasn't real long in the spots where it was back in '99.  So greens are really good.  I enjoyed my time over there.  I just didn't play as well as I'd like and here I am here. 

 Q.  A slightly different challenge this week.  Have you had a chance to go out and play Gut Kaden? 
 BRETT WETTERICH: I haven't played them all.  I've played all the back 9 and six holes in the shoot-out yesterday but different golf course than Carnoustie.  But you have to still go out and hit the ball well and get it in the hole.  When it comes down to that, it's all the same. 

 Q.  This course has low scoring in the past, are you excited about rolling in a few birdies? 
 BRETT WETTERICH: I hope so.  As long as I can get them in there close and I'm rolling them good, I'll be happy.  Obviously if they don't go in, I'm going to be a little upset.  But as long as I'm giving myself a good chance rolling them in, I'll be okay. 

 Q.  You've played two Opens now.  You're here this week.  Think you're becoming an international player?  
 BRETT WETTERICH: You never know.  This is the first time there's an Open I've played over here.  I like it.  It took me a little time adjusting to the time differences, but I like coming over here.  I like playing both of the Opens.  So hopefully we'll have a good experience here and maybe I'll come over here and start playing more. 

 Q.  There's talk in the program, guys like yourself and Charley and JB add a bit of excitement to the U.S. Tour, young guys coming through, how do you feel about being labeled like this? 
 BRETT WETTERICH: I don't know.  I've never heard that before.  (Chuckling) I know we all hit the ball long on the fairway.  I know people like to see that.  You just got to get out there and do your best and hopefully the people will take a few, not try to make yourself look too bad when you're out on the golf course and be a gentleman.  
 I think we've done a pretty good job of that.  And as long as we stay out of trouble and keep playing some decent golf, maybe more people will take to us. 

 Q.  It's a long way away, but the Ryder Cup, is it your goal to play it again next year? 
 BRETT WETTERICH: Absolutely.  I, myself, I didn't play that well last year, my two matches I got to play in.  So I feel like I have something to prove to myself and others  and a lot of other people.  Next year the golf course is actually an hour and a half from where I grew up.  So it would be really important for me and fun for my family to be able to come out there and watch that, because not a lot of them get to go over to Ireland.  It's a big goal for me. 

 Q.  Who did you play in the two matches? 
 BRETT WETTERICH:   I played David Howell in the singles and played against Sergio and Jose in the fourballs. 
 MODERATOR:  Thank you for coming in.  



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT