EDS BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
April 27, 2007
Brett Wetterich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JOE CHEMYCZ:  We welcome Brett Wetterich, our defending champion, in.  Brett with a 2-under par 68 today at Cottonwood Valley, bogey-free today, as well, 14 of 18 greens.  Just talk about the day.   
 BRETT WETTERICH:  It was a good day.  You know, anytime you don't make a bogey, it's a good day.  I mean, there could have been a few more birdies, but I also could have made a couple bogeys.  I made two good pars, I think, and that kind of kept me round going on, and I'm pretty happy overall.   
 JOE CHEMYCZ:  31 putts including a three-putt for par at 16.   
 BRETT WETTERICH:  Yeah, that sounds like a lot of putts.  I didn't putt as well as I did yesterday.  The three-putt wasn't a real easy two-putt; it was a pretty long putt and down the hill and around the slope.  I wasn't even really that mad.  I was more mad I didn't birdie the hole as opposed to three-putting it.   
 But I hit some good strokes out there and a few putts that didn't go in, so I'm not too mad.   
  
  Q.  Is it one of those like yesterday, you came in, you had started off, six straight pars and just playing steady golf, but is it one of those things where you're going, I left a few out there?   
 BRETT WETTERICH:  I felt like that, yeah.  I'm not sure what hole I made my first birdie on.  It was kind of slow, just hanging in there, making pars, and I kind of snuck in a birdie there.  I made a good par in that kind of mix.   
 It was slow, but at the same time, I didn't feel like I was playing that bad, I just couldn't get anything together and couldn't make that birdie putt when I needed it.   
  
  Q.  People always use the term "horses for courses."  Is there something to that do you think?   
 BRETT WETTERICH:  I don't know, I guess there is different courses that guys look at and they play well there as opposed to a different course.  So I get you could say that.  I'm not sure if I'm the horse for this course, but I've played well the last three years here, I think.  There's something about it that I like, I guess.  Maybe I'm just hitting the ball good or playing well at the time that I come here, so I'm not sure which it is.   
  
  Q.  How much different is Cottonwood Valley with the changes, I guess, and how much --   
 BRETT WETTERICH:  Changes weren't that different.  The biggest change was like 14, I think, how they moved the green, to me.   
 The greens were firmer over here than they were at TPC, but other than that, I don't think the changes were that noticeable.  I mean, they added a couple tees and that's about it.   
  
  Q.  It's playing like almost two strokes higher.  Any explanation for that?   
 BRETT WETTERICH:  No clue.   
  
  Q.  Coming in as the defending champion, did you have an expectation of whether or not it was going to be difficult to get your head back in the game this year and get going?  And obviously it's not bothering you at all, but did you have any apprehensions or anything about --   
 BRETT WETTERICH:  No, I wasn't real sure what to expect coming into this week.  I knew I was going to have a lot of responsibility as far as the media and things like that.  I knew I was going to have to spend some time doing that.   
 But I think as soon as the tournament starts, I think you need to forget about all that stuff and just kind of go out there and do your own thing and feel like you're at a different -- not a different tournament, but it's a different year so you need to go out and do the things that you did last year to win.   
  
  Q.  Do you have a favorite story about Cottonwood from your times here, a particular hole well-played or something funny that happened over there?   
 BRETT WETTERICH:  On Cottonwood?   
  
  Q.  Yeah.   
 BRETT WETTERICH:  Gosh, no, not really.  I know I holed out my bunker shot on 14, and they moved the green on me (laughter).   
  
  Q.  That was last year?   
 BRETT WETTERICH:  That was last year.   
  
  Q.  You've heard of Tiger-proof; that's Wetterich-proof there.   
 BRETT WETTERICH:  They got me.   
  
  Q.  Since you won here last year, you played on the Ryder Cup team, you had a nice spin through The Masters media room this year.  Do you feel like you're a better player coming in this year or a more prepared player coming into this year?   
 BRETT WETTERICH:  Yeah, definitely.  I felt like I was a better player the last -- the middle to the last part of last year, I felt like I was starting to play really good and starting to understand how to play out here and get things done.  And even this year I feel like I'm better than I was towards the end of last year.  So it's been a work in progress, but I think it's going the right way, so I'm pleased with it.   
  
  Q.  Even though you mentioned you maybe left a shot or two here, do you feel pretty good where you're at?   
 BRETT WETTERICH:  I guess.  Everyone can say they should have done this or that, but at the end you've got your score and that's what it is.  I'm happy where I'm at.  I'm still -- I don't know what the scores are, but I've got to be close to something.  I'm going to be in the top ten I would have to think by the end of the day.  So I'm happy with that and still have two days of golf.   
  
  Q.  The Stockton tip, has that been easy to incorporate?   
 BRETT WETTERICH:  Sometimes it is, you know, and other times I have a little bit of trouble, have to take a couple extra seconds to get into it.  But for the most part it's been really solid.  I hit a couple bad putts coming in on 16 and 17, but other than that, I felt like I rolled the ball really good today.   
  
  Q.  Do you know the last guy to repeat as Byron Nelson champion?   
 BRETT WETTERICH:  Do I know who it was?  No.   
  
  Q.  Tom Watson.  That would be cool, Brett Wetterich, Tom Watson.   
 BRETT WETTERICH:  That's a nice name to be next to if you're going to talk about a stat.  I wouldn't mind being in that.   
 JOE CHEMYCZ:  Two birdies today, one at No. 2.   
 BRETT WETTERICH:  No. 2?  I always have a brain freeze when you do this to me (laughter).   
 I hit one in there, I hit 7-iron just blow the hole, little right-to-left putt maybe about 15 feet or so and then made that one.   
 And then 13, I hit 5-wood off the tee, hit 9-iron to about pin high, just a little right of the hole, and made that one.  It was about a 15-, 20-footer maybe.  And that was it.   
  
  Q.  What happened on 16?   
 BRETT WETTERICH:  I hit 6-iron into the green, hit it in the back left corner, so I had to come all the way across the green and down, and I left it -- I hit it eight feet short, I guess, and hit a terrible putt.  So that was that.   
  
  Q.  On 1 what was your second -- what did you hit on your second shot, and was the wind against you?   
 BRETT WETTERICH:  On 1, I hit 9-iron.  It was maybe just a little left to right, maybe helping a little.   
 JOE CHEMYCZ:  Brett, thank you.  Play well this weekend.  Appreciate it.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT