EDS BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
April 26, 2007
Brett Wetterich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   STEWART MOORE:  We'd like to welcome defending champion Brett Wetterich to the interview room here at the EDS Byron Nelson Championship.  Brett coming off an opening round of 66 as well as an eagle at the par 5, 16th.  If you could talk us through some of the highlights of your round today. 
 BRETT WETTERICH:  Jeesh.  I just kind of started off, through the first six holes made some good pars there getting off to a good start, and finally I made a good birdie on 7, the par 5, then I followed that up with another good one on No. 8, and a few more pars in between, and then I'm -- then I made a real nice putt on 12 I think it was -- or 11.  Made a good putt on 11 there for birdie, and I had the eagle on 16, and it turned out to be 4-under, so I was happy. 

 Q.  Is it nice to finally focus on golf after a couple days of media requests and ceremonies as defending champion?  I know it's been kind of a whirlwind here for two days. 
 BRETT WETTERICH:  It has been, but it's something I could get used to, that's for sure.  If this is the worst thing you ever have to do is be in the media room for something good, I'll be here, that's for sure. 

 Q.  I was going to say that's kind of habit for you here; you play a round and then you come to the interview room and talk about your lead and being right next to it. 
 BRETT WETTERICH:  That's a good routine to get into, I can tell you that.  Sometimes it's a little overwhelming, but it's never a bad thing. 

 Q.  I mean, obviously you feel the confidence out here or you feel it for some reason. 
 BRETT WETTERICH:  I'm not sure.  I was just asked that outside.  I'm not sure what it is.  You know, I just for some reason seemed to play well on this golf course the past couple years, even the year before.  So I don't know what it is.  You know, I'm hitting the ball well and I made some putts out there today, and I guess if you can do those two things it's going to add to a good score. 

 Q.  How were the greens rolling out there? 
 BRETT WETTERICH:  Pretty good.  I had a couple balls bounce around a little bit, but overall they rolled pretty good for me. 

 Q.  How was the thought process those first few holes, and did it take you a little bit to get over the fact that, okay, now I'm defending the title? 
 BRETT WETTERICH:  Tried not to think about it too much.  On the first tee it was nice to be announced the defending champion.  But I think once that's all said and done, I think you need to focus on what you need to do on the golf course and hopefully play well enough to hear that again. 

 Q.  Can you take me through the eagle on 16? 
 BRETT WETTERICH:  It was playing a little downwind, hit driver obviously off the tee, and I had like 220 to the hole there, a little downwind still, hit 5-iron to about eight to ten feet, somewhere in there, and then a little -- pretty much a straight putt, but played it just to break a little right and made it. 

 Q.  And then just your putts on 8 and 11? 
 BRETT WETTERICH:  8 was another short putt.  Not short, but it was probably five feet, I guess, pretty much a straight putt, and made that there. 
 And 11, I had a little left to right, and it was probably about 15, 20 feet maybe, somewhere in that range. 

 Q.  You get this opening round on the TPC, and obviously everybody makes a big deal about going to Cottonwood.  How does it feel to post a 66 on TPC knowing you're going across the street tomorrow? 
 BRETT WETTERICH:  It great feels to me either way.  No matter what course you play, you want to get off to a good start, whether it's across the street or here at TPC.  I don't think it really matters.  I think both courses are going to play difficult in their own way, and if you can get by those few holes, I think you'll be all right. 

 Q.  Was today difficult with the wind the way it was blowing? 
 BRETT WETTERICH:  A few holes, yeah.  When the wind gets whipping the wrong way or you kind of catch it swirling, a few times it was tough to pull a club.  We had to think about it, but for the most part it wasn't too bad. 
 STEWART MOORE:  Brett, thanks for your time. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT