PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 16, 2015
Jose Maria Zamora
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOSE MARIA ZAMORA: This will fully allow us to have a chance to finish in the third round tomorrow.  In the morning we have some rain, some very heavy rain coming from 1 o'clock.  So the only option to get the third round in will be for a shotgun start.   
 Q.  And Sunday, much to your annoyance, Sunday is not looking great either?  
JOSE MARIA ZAMORA: Sunday is not looking great.  At the moment we have a big concern about the third round.  We're going to try to get it done.  And if we get lucky, we will have the fourth round for Sunday.  Whether we'll be able to play or not on Sunday, we'll have to see.  But as I say, the forecast is really, really pour.   
 Q.  The first opening couple have been typical weather, hasn't it?  
JOSE MARIA ZAMORA: Weather has been fantastic.  It's so hot out there, so sunny.  We've got thousands of people following the golf.   
And we were very unfortunate last year with the cancellation of the last two rounds actually.  This year it's not looking very promising for the week.  As I've said, so far we've had two lovely days.   
 Q.  Last year, as you said, reduced to 36 holes.  It's that key stage of the season, isn't it, pronouncement of the regular season, we're looking ahead to the final series.  Obviously it's Hong Kong next week as well.  Nightmare situation, you don't want a Monday finish.  But also just reconfirm what will happen to the prize fund if it's not the full 72 holes?  
JOSE MARIA ZAMORA: Initially, if we don't play 72 holes, we play three rounds, 100 percent of the prize fund will be paid, and if we have to stop early and only play 36 holes, it will be 75 percent.   
 Q.  Just before we let you go and continue your busy afternoon as you plan and get ready for tomorrow, shotgun in the morning, getting underway at 8 o'clock?  
JOSE MARIA ZAMORA: Yeah, exactly.  We're going to change the preparation of the golf course.  As I said, we're expecting 30, 40 miles per hour wind tomorrow, so we'll not be cutting the greens.  Some of the tees we will move forward to make the course more playable.  We're expecting a really tough day.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT