NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINAL: DUCKS VS PREDATORS
May 16, 2017
Filip Forsberg
Roman Josi
Pekka Rinne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Nashville - 2, Anaheim - 1   
Nashville leads series, 2-1   
 Q.  I guess this is for any one of the three that wants to answer this question, but up until the point where Filip scored, I mean you had a significant advantage in shots and scoring chances.  I guess, how do you manage frustration and making sure that you keep pushing in that situation when you have so many opportunities, but one didn't break through until early in the third period?  
FILIP FORSBERG: I think just throughout, I mean, whatever minutes we played before, I think we played great.  I think we played fast and competitive.  And I think it was just a matter of sticking with it.  And obviously Gibson played great in that but at the same time we kept pounding them and I think that was the key.   
 Q.  On a fantastic streak at home, six in a row this postseason, I think it's 10 overall.  Two goals disallowed tonight against you.  Is there magic here?  Is there something special other than just the fans and you guys playing really well?  
PEKKA RINNE: It can be nice.  And it's fun to play in front of these fans.  You always try to establish your home building, tough place to play.  And I think we've been doing that.  And even in regular season, we like to play at home.  But these Playoffs, I mean you don't want to have any regrets and you don't want to look back at these home games as a missed chance, and we've been doing a really good job.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible)?  
PEKKA RINNE: This whole magic (indiscernible).   
 Q.  Roman, this team throughout the Playoffs and the way it's won games, it's won it in many different ways.  You've won it via comeback, you've won a lot of one-goal games and overtime games and blowout game.  What does it say about this group that regardless of the situation you always seem to find a way to win a game regardless of how it ultimately plays out?  
ROMAN JOSI: It says a lot.  I think we're a confident team.  We know what we can do in the room.  And like Phil said today, nobody panicked.  We knew we played a good game.  We had a lot of chances and a lot of shots.  We knew we had to play the same way and they're going to go in sometime.  Doesn't matter what happens, we just try to stay positive and just stay with it.   
 Q.  Filip, that's the second time in the Playoffs you guys have been down at home and you brought your team back in the game.  Do you kind of live for those moments in the Playoffs, to be the guy on this team and make sure you're able to score those clutch goals?  
FILIP FORSBERG: I think we all do.  Obviously when you're out there, you want to help the team, and doesn't matter if you're up or down you always want to help the team.  And, I mean, it came obviously at a good moment but at the same time, as we touched on, if I didn't get that goal I'm sure somebody would have.  But obviously, yeah, I'm happy I did.   
 Q.  Does this team have any extra push coming off a loss because it seems when you look at it throughout the Playoffs you play some of your best hockey coming off a loss?  
ROMAN JOSI: Yeah, I mean, I thought we did a lot of good things in that last, too.  Obviously some things we could have done better.  One of the things is playing better defensively.  We wanted to play better defensively tonight.  And I thought we did.   
We did a good job.  And this team has done a really good job so far in the Playoffs of rebounding.  And after losses, and it's huge.  You can't go too high or too low after a loss or a win.  You've got to win four games.  So you've just got to stay with it and keep doing the things that make you successful.   
 Q.  Can you describe what the bench was like after those two goals were called off?  Was it tough to put that one behind you?  
FILIP FORSBERG: No, it wasn't.  Actually, I thought that was just fruit of whatever we put in throughout the 40 minutes before.  And obviously we wanted those goals to be counted.  But at the same time we knew -- we just kept playing.  I don't think anyone said anything negatively or anything.  Just kept playing, just kept being focused.  And obviously that power play goal came up huge.   
 Q.  Roman, you've been around the league now, and played in all the leagues and in Europe.  A lot of people have watched Nashville games on television, but they have never come to this rink and seen what it's like in here and experienced what we saw tonight.  Can you put in words what it's like to be in this building with this crowd and the team playing hard and a game like tonight, what's it like?  
ROMAN JOSI: I really can't.  It's tough to put in words.  Like you said, you watch it on TV, but you've got to be in here to feel the energy.  It's unbelievable.  Our fans, they're amazing.   
Like every time they stand up and they just keep cheering, keep cheering.  And as a team that's -- it gives us that extra boost.  And, like I said, the energy, haven't been in a building with that much energy in my life, in my career.   
So it's unbelievable.  And I think you gotta be here to see how it really is.   
MODERATOR: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT