SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 8, 2013
Nikki Caldwell
Theresa Plaisance
Adrienne Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









THE MODERATOR:   We're joined by LSU head coach Nikki Caldwell and student‑athletes Theresa Plaisance and Adrienne Webb.   We'll start with an opening comment about the game from Coach Caldwell. 
COACH CALDWELL:   Well, first off I know we fell short of one of our goals, which obviously was to advance and continue to play.   But this team has definitely been a team of many surprises. 
I'm still just proud of this group.   They're a great bunch of young ladies.   We are a team that have enjoyed each other and we still got some more basketball to be played. 
But a lot of credit to Georgia, the execution of their game plan. 
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for the student‑athletes. 

Q.   Right from the start you were up against it.   Was it hard to have some faith that this time it was going to work out? 
ADRIENNE WEBB:   Well, giving all credit to Georgia, they set the tone coming out.   High intensity.   We kind of dug ourselves a hole and really didn't bounce back and pull our way out of the hole. 
THERESA PLAISANCE:   Yeah, I agree.   They really set the tone out early, knocking down three threes right off the bat.   We dug ourselves a hole. 
That's something we've always done.   We've never lost faith.   We tried to fight our way out of it.   But they just kept executing their game plan.   Things were just going all their way. 

Q.   Theresa, it seemed especially tough against Hassell tonight. 
THERESA PLAISANCE:   Yeah, that's one thing they did a really good job with this game.   They got her the ball down low a numerous amount of times.   She converted.   They did a really great job tonight on the offensive and defensive end.   She was keeping plays alive for them.   That's a momentum killer when you have to play another 30 seconds of defense after an offensive rebound on their part. 
That's a credit to her.   She did a great job tonight, and they did a great job of getting her the ball on the weak side, low post. 

Q.   Now you go home, have a couple weeks to rest.   NCAA tournament bid.   Where do you feel like you can go from here? 
ADRIENNE WEBB:   You can only go up from here.   Sure, can you take this loss as a negative or you can take it as a positive as we can get better in these next two weeks to prepare ourselves for the NCAA tournament. 
THERESA PLAISANCE:   As a junior, you always want to leave out your senior year with something that you look back on as a positive.   This wasn't our strongest game.   This wasn't our strongest tournament, period. 
I want to make it my job personally to not let these seniors go out on this.   We're going to take these two weeks and put a lot of work in and get better on the things we struggled with, make a good run in the tournament, because these seniors deserve the best.   They've given a lot to this program and this school and we're not letting them go out like this. 
THE MODERATOR:   We'll continue with questions for Coach Caldwell. 

Q.   Can you give us any update on Shanece's condition?
COACH CALDWELL:   Right now obviously we're going to monitor her.   She took a pretty hard fall and a pretty tough bang, so we didn't want to run any risk when you're dealing with anything to the head. 
We're just going to stay day‑to‑day and stay positive with her recovery. 

Q.   Will she be able to return home with you tomorrow?
COACH CALDWELL:   At this point, I'm not for sure.   I do not know.   Hopefully she will be able to. 

Q.   Your thoughts on where you go from here.   Not what you wanted, but you've accomplished a lot.   Take the big picture approach to the last month, NCAA bid. 
COACH CALDWELL:   Well, I don't want this group to allow this game to basically define who we are.   We're a team that has the ability to play and beat some of the best teams in the country. 
Georgia tonight had our number.   They did a great job, like I said earlier, of executing their game plan.   But this was not our best performance by any stretch. 
I feel like we got a lot of looks at the basket.   We didn't do what we needed to do as far as knocking down shots.   But on the flipside of it defensively, when you lose Shanece McKinney, one of our better low post defenders, I do think that plays a role.   I also think losing her off the boards. 
So we had to really play small against a very talented and bigger team. 
So we hope to get her back and get back to what got us to this point in the first place, which is how we defended and rebounded the basketball. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you. 
COACH CALDWELL:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT