PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 16, 2015
Chris Paisley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Two 67s, better than steady away, very nice golf.
CHRIS PAISLEY: Yeah, I'm obviously happy with it.  Obviously coming into the week being the guy that's 110, it's not that nice of a position to be in.  I felt good about my game.  Hit it really well the last two days and only made one bogey.  Hopefully we'll get to play tomorrow and keep it going.
Q. A lot better than being 111 or 112.  So presumably there's a lot of positives about your position?
CHRIS PAISLEY: Absolutely.  I guess there's less pressure on me than the guys that are behind me.  I've got that going for me.  That's just something that you obviously can't think about when you're playing.  You just go out and take each shot as it comes.  Whatever happens, happens.
Q. Presumably, though, there's positives as well in that you have been playing well, and there's been some lovely results this season?
CHRIS PAISLEY: Yeah, absolutely.  I feel as though I played really well.  I guess it's tough for the Q School guys coming out because you don't get into some of the bigger events, which makes it a little bit harder to keep your card.  I feel like I've played really well and hopefully I can finish it off this week.
Q. At least a particular highlight on the card today.  Talk us through that.
CHRIS PAISLEY: Yeah, on the 15th hole.  Yeah, it's almost a drivable par-4, hit a good drive, 50 yards just short left of the green.  Just trying to land it on the front of the green and run it up as close as possible.  As soon as it landed, it looked like it was right on line and I could see the ball disappear at the end.  That was obviously a nice little bonus.
Q. When that sort of thing happens, you just know it's your day, don't you?  You've got a good score under your belt.
CHRIS PAISLEY: Absolutely.  Those kind of shots, when you are not playing so well, seem to lip out or take a bad bounce or whatever.  So it's nice to have things go my way the last couple of days.
Q. What are your thoughts going into the third round with an early start and a shotgun start at that?
CHRIS PAISLEY: Obviously there's a lot of talk of the bad forecast or whatever.  Again, that's something that's not under anyone's control.  You have just got to be ready to play if we can play.  Obviously that's what I've been doing the last couple days, take each shot as it comes.
Q. Are you going to Hong Kong?
CHRIS PAISLEY: Yeah, I think so.  I've got to plane already booked.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT