BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 28, 2015
Chris Paisley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  CHRIS PAISLEY:   It's been fantastic, but I suppose I should almost be disappointed about today but I'm kind of really proud of how I've done and how I handled myself today, and kind of gave myself a bit of a chance on 16 holing that putt.   Then just a poor shot on 17.   
But this week overall, it's by far my best performance on The European Tour and it's given me a good chunk of money towards keeping my card.  
   
 Q.   You looked composed and as if you had been there before, which presumably is what you intended?  
CHRIS PAISLEY:   I was nervous, I have to say, very nervous, but in control.   I don't think there's any point really where the nerves over took.   I felt in control of myself and it was just so much fun to play with James in the last group of such a good event like this.   Just thankful to so many people.  
   
 Q.   Talk me through the round just a little because it was adventures, it had it's up‑and‑downs right from the start and the chip‑in there as well.   
CHRIS PAISLEY:   It was great to start with two good shots and a birdie on the first, and just missed a short putt on 2 and then the chip‑in on 3 and I think that kind of settled me down a little bit.   I didn't play my best but given the circumstances, first time I've ever played in the final group, I'm happy with how I did.  
   
 Q.   How conscious are you of the situation when you are playing these last few holes?   
CHRIS PAISLEY:     Well, for guys that have won multiple times, I'd imagine that situation is a lot easier because they mess up, it's not a big deal.   They are going to keep the card anyway.   But for me, realistically, the goal this year is to keep my card.   
Obviously I would have loved to have won but part of me was wanting to kind of go for it on the last hole and make eagle and get a playoff.   And there was also a part of myself that didn't want to mess up and cost myself an awful lot of money.   When it's your first time in that situation, it's obviously tough but I'm proud of how I handled it.  
   
 Q.   Money is something we kind of take for granted in this riches‑laiden sport, really.   But for you is this hugely significant, the amount you're winning for this week?  
CHRIS PAISLEY:   Massively.   I've been fortunate.   My parents have been great and they have stuck by me through some lean times.   Callaway this year stuck with me, as well.   To get that chunk of money, it will take a lot of pressure off me.   I'm married but I'm living at home with my parents so that will go towards maybe getting a house for me and my wife.   It's great.  
   
 Q.   You mentioned playing alongside James Morrison, who made the same kind of point in Spain just the other week:   You can relax that little bit.   You won't want to relax too much, but at the same time it takes the pressure off, doesn't it?   
CHRIS PAISLEY:   Yeah, hopefully this frees me up a little bit to play even more really good golf.   It's given me a huge confidence boost to know that I can play some really good golf in the final day group of a Tour event.   If I keep playing like I did this week, I'll have another chance hopefully.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT