BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 27, 2015
Chris Paisley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   14‑under par, how does that sound to you?
CHRIS PAISLEY:   Great.   Really proud of how I played today.   First time I've been in this position in a European Tour event.   I think I'm going to be in the last group tomorrow by the looks of it.   I'm pretty excited and pleased. 

Q.   Watching your game out there today, where have you been?   With a swing like that, you really swing it well.   Putting, it's all good.   What's the story?   Tell us all about yourself. 
CHRIS PAISLEY:   I appreciate you saying that it.   It's strange, I've always kind of worked hard and felt like I had a pretty good game.   I've just had a slow kind of progression I guess. 
This year, I've played a lot of good golf, but I had a poor year last year and my self‑belief has taken a while to catch up with my game.   I feel it's starting to do that now.   I'm playing well but I've been getting in positions and then falling back just because of a bit of nerves or whatever. 
Today I felt really comfortable.   I was nervous, but I wasn't kind of ever worrying about messing up.   I was always looking ahead of me and trying to make birdies.   I think that's the difference. 

Q.   You don't look nervous right now.   Where do you live?   Everybody is at home watching it?
CHRIS PAISLEY:   I'm from Newcastle.   So glad and looking forward to tomorrow. 

Q.   Pleased with the way you've moved through today?
CHRIS PAISLEY:   Yeah, obviously delighted.   I'm proud of how I kind of kept moving forward.   It's the first time I've been in such a good position in a European Tour event.   I didn't get defensive.   I didn't start to worry about where I was.   I just kept playing and trying to make birdies.   I'm pretty proud of myself for doing that.

Q.   Trying to make birdies; there was one blitz out there, wasn't it.   Gain after gain after gain. 
CHRIS PAISLEY:   Start of the round there, kind of hit a nice shot into second, put it around through the back of the green and didn't make an easy up‑and‑down.   After that, I chipped in on the next hole and kept playing lovely golf and knocking a few putts in.   It's one of the courses where you can do that if you're hitting it in the fairway and I managed to do it fairly well.

Q.   Have you had moments like that in your career in the past? 
CHRIS PAISLEY:   First time I've had a run like that on a Saturday on a European Tour event when I've been up there.

Q.   I can only surmise it works wonders for you, not only for the score, but you boost the confidence and you go on happy into the next one feeling everything is possible?
CHRIS PAISLEY:   It's a funny thing, golf.   It can snowball both ways.   When you're struggling, it can seem to get harder and harder and harder, and when it's going well, it seems to be going the other way.   The game felt fairly easy to me today which is a luxury you don't often get in golf. 

Q.   Pretty sure I heard you say you were a little nervous but you're looking pretty relaxed.   That must be a good kind of balance, isn't it? 
CHRIS PAISLEY:   Yeah, obviously if I wasn't nervous, there would be something wrong with me but I feel like I'm in control of myself and my game and my ball and stuff.   I'm nervous but in a good way.   There's two different types of nerves and definitely have the good nerves bit at the moment.

Q.   How are you likely to be this evening and tomorrow into the final round? 
CHRIS PAISLEY:   I'm excited to be honest.   I think I'm going to be playing in the final group of a European Tour event on Sunday, so who doesn't want to do that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT