BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 26, 2015
Chris Paisley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Thoughts on your position at the halfway stage? 
CHRIS PAISLEY:   Yeah, obviously really happy.   Kind of one of those days where I was just going along, playing nicely, and didn't realise how well I was doing almost.   Good finish, couple birdies towards the end and saw the leaderboard on the last and moved up to fourth maybe.   Played really nicely and happy to be in a good position going into the weekend.

Q.   Kind of nice when that happens, isn't it, when you're just in your own world?
CHRIS PAISLEY:   Yeah, it's something that I'm kind of getting better at, which is fairly rare in golf, when you can get in that mind‑set.   It's nice, I wasn't thinking about leaderboards or my score or anything.   I was just kind of going along, enjoying myself, and, yeah, a good day.

Q.   Presumably one of those places that you want to be in but you can't tell yourself, you've got to get in the zone, that sort of thing.   Just has to click into place. 
CHRIS PAISLEY:   Absolutely.   Just work hard and do all the right things and try to get yourself in the right mind‑set and just go out and play.   Sometimes you get into that little zone and play nicely.   Just going to try to keep doing what I've been doing and hopefully get into that zone even more.

Q.   What is it you've done particularly well? 
CHRIS PAISLEY:   I'd say my mind‑set has been really good. Yesterday I didn't feel that comfortable over the ball but managed myself well.   Was hitting a hook early on and rather than trying to hit a perfect shot from then on, I just started to hit a little fade and kept it on the fairway and managed to get in at 3‑under, which really I didn't play particularly well. 
Did a bit of work last night and this morning on that, and came out today and played much better.   Shot a nice score.   I think it's the round yesterday that really made the difference.   With that lack of experience, could have shot over par quite easily, but managed to get around in 69.

Q.   What is the mind‑set coming into this course where you know that birdies are paramount; you sound like you play within yourself and you've achieved the results anyway. 
CHRIS PAISLEY:   Yeah, there are a lot of chances, but if you're not getting it in the fairway off the tee, it can turn into quite a difficult course.   That's what I found early in my round yesterday, I was 2‑over through five holes.   Felt like I was playing out of the rough every hole.   Managed to find a way to get on the fairway and all of a sudden it became a lot easier and gave myself chances.
Certainly one of those courses where if you're on your game, you can shoot a low one, but then again, if you're off it, and fairways are narrow and the rough is reasonably thick, it can get away from you. 
My confidence has been building slowly over the season and now it's translating into good scores and good positions.   Hopefully I can keep doing it and take advantage. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT