ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 27, 2013
Chris Paisley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Chris, fantastic 10‑under par round today, having an eagle on 15, and finishing with a birdie on 18, how pleased are you? 
CHRIS PAISLEY:   Obviously delighted.   It's been a tough year so far golf‑wise, but I've been playing pretty well for a little while now, and a good round has been coming.   Thankfully it came today.

Q.   What were playing conditions out there today? 
CHRIS PAISLEY:   Very scorable.   There's barely any wind.   A couple of miles an hour, if that, and the greens are very good, and fairways aren't too narrow.   So if you are hitting it well off the tee and getting it on the greens, then you're going to get a lot of birdie chances.   Tried to give myself a lot of chances today and was able to take them.

Q.   How important was it to put yourself in such a position going into the third round of the tournament?
CHRIS PAISLEY:   Yeah, absolutely, it's very important for me at this stage.   I'm 130 on The Race to Dubai, so I have got a bit of work to do to keep my card.   I've only probably got two or three tournaments left, so this is the right time for me to play well.   Very important for me, so I'll just try to keep going.

Q.   Bit of practise this afternoon before you head out tomorrow?
CHRIS PAISLEY:   Yeah, practise, probably head over to St. Andrews, because hopefully I'll be there the next two days.   Try to get used to the speed of the greens over there.   Looking forward to it.

Q.   You made Kingsbarns look particularly easy? 
CHRIS PAISLEY:   I've been playing well for a little while but haven't managed to get any low scores in, so I suppose today was the day it finally came.   Didn't really feel like I was doing anything different to what happened recently, but just the odd little thing here and there, kept the momentum going, holed some good putts at the right time, and hit some nice shots whereas recently I've been maybe missing those putts. 
I just knocked them in and it's just weird, you know, kind of not doing too much differently but the score was massively different so that was brilliant.

Q.   Any particularly long putts? 
CHRIS PAISLEY:   Probably the one on the last.   Holed a 15‑, 20‑footer on the last, was the longest one that I had.   The rest were kind of inside ten feet really. 

Q.   Suggests your irons were pretty good today then?
CHRIS PAISLEY:   Yeah, it's fairly wide, the course, and I was driving it well.   So I had a lot of chances to give myself chances and I hit a lot‑‑ a few close, like really close, tap‑ins and a lot of kind of six or eight feet and holed most of those. 

Q.   16 was the highlight, the eagle? 
CHRIS PAISLEY:   Yeah, it's funny, we were kind of in between a 3‑wood and a hybrid to get off the green and we said, oh, let's hit hybrid to get it front edge and went 20 yards further than we planned and rolled up to six feet, definitely a little bonus.

Q.   Your first time at this tournament, enjoying the week? 
CHRIS PAISLEY:   Yeah, it's obviously quite a bit different to a normal Tour event, just having the amateurs there.   Just revery relaxed and good fun this week and that's probably helped me this week take my mind off the situation I'm in.   Just enjoying myself and playing well. 

Q.   You mentioned it there, back of your mind I guess, how easy is that to do to forget about where you are in The Race to Dubai and concentrate on one shot at a time? 
CHRIS PAISLEY:   It is tough, but I think as golfers, we are always putting some kind of pressure on ourselves, could be anything; I could be under pressure to make Race to Dubai at the end of the year or something like that. 
I think as golfers, it's not unusual.   It's not a nice position to be in but always some pressure on you whether it's to get to world No. 1 or anything like that.   That's probably why my scores recently haven't been particularly low.   Maybe just not quite focusing on my routines and all the things I need to do.   Maybe part of my brain wasn't quite there.   Today wasn't a problem, but it was good.

Q.   People talk about the difficulty of following up a low round, but playing a different course, is that a help?
CHRIS PAISLEY:   I thought about that today, when I got to 6‑ or 7‑under, I thought, when you do have those low rounds, the next day, you almost compare that round.   Yeah, that will definitely be a help I would say. 

Q.   Looking forward to playing the Home of Golf? 
CHRIS PAISLEY:   Yeah, special place, isn't it.   Looking forward to getting out there to see if I can shoot another good round. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT