THE IRISH OPEN
June 27, 2013
Chris Paisley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Thoughts on such a wonderful start, four birdies in six holes there in?  
CHRIS PAISLEY:   Yeah, it was lovely to get off to a good start this year.   I've not had that many great starts, so game's been coming around for a while, and to put a round like that together is really nice.  
   
 Q.   That's a good score in some trying conditions, isn't it?  
CHRIS PAISLEY:   Definitely, I held it together when that rain came.   I got off to a great start.   I was 4‑under and then started to get pretty heavy and I managed to keep paining pars.   Had some good up‑and‑downs and gave myself some chances, even when it was bad.  
Yeah, just really happy with how everything went.  
   
 Q.   You say things have been coming together?   
CHRIS PAISLEY:   Yeah, it's been a funny one.   Seems like one round, I'll hit it great and struggle with my putting and then I'll putt great and struggle with my long game.   Just has not quite all clicked in yet.   
Today, pretty much everything in my game was nice.   Putted great and hit some iron shots, so one of the few times it's come together.   Today my bad shots were non‑destructive, which was good, and when I did miss a green, I was getting it up‑and‑down and keeping it fairly stress‑free.  
   
 Q.   In general terms, are you enjoying it out on The European Tour?  
CHRIS PAISLEY:   Yeah, it's been brilliant.   I've worked hard to get here and gone through all mini‑tours and all the amateurs and all that stuff, and to finally get here has been brilliant.   Getting crowds and venues like this, it's a lot of fun.   
   
 Q.   Everyone will think you've made it, because it's a grind from week‑to‑week.   
CHRIS PAISLEY:   Yeah, there are parts of it that are tough and hard work, especially when you're not playing well, but I think you've just got to have a reality check a lot of time.   A bad day on this job is not a bad day, really, is it.   Very lucky and overall it's been brilliant.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT