OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
January 25, 2018
Chris Paisley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Talk us through how happy you are with that?  
CHRIS PAISLEY: Yeah, obviously delighted to keep the run going.  Yeah, scored really well.  Didn't feel like my driving was amazing but I was missing it in the right spots.  There's a few tee shots I kind of got a way with, but from then on, kind of iron play was really good.  Hit a lot of close shots and just gave myself a lot of birdie putts and managed to make most of them, as well.   
 Q.  How important is it to play aggressively on this golf course, in particular?  
CHRIS PAISLEY: Yeah, I mean, the kind of strategy I've been going with recently is to be sensibly aggressive.  Obviously on a day like this, the guys are going to shoot good scores but you don't want to force it too much, either.   
Obviously my confidence is kind of up a little bit so I don't feel like I'm having to force it.  Just making good swings at smart targets and giving myself a lot of birdie putts.   
 Q.  Just explain to us, as someone fresh off a first win, what changes in your mind-set?  How different do you feel when you come to a golf course on the Thursday morning now ready to go?  Is there a difference in approach?  
CHRIS PAISLEY: Yeah, definitely.  I've always been the first to kind of doubt myself.  That's kind of not there at the moment, which is really nice.  I'm just kind of very comfortable in my own skin.  I'm playing my own game.  I'm not a long hitter but I'm just kind of doing my thing and really enjoying it.   
 Q.  Amazing few weeks for you.  Just sum up another good round today?  
CHRIS PAISLEY: Yeah, it's obviously really nice to keep it going.  You have a lot of hard times in golf and just trying to ride the wave and enjoy it while I'm playing well.  So it is great to keep it going today.   
 Q.  The momentum, obviously from your win and the performance in Abu Dhabi, how is the mind-set going into another tournament here in the Middle East?  
CHRIS PAISLEY: Yeah, obviously really good.  Trying to just do the same thing I have been doing.  It's just nice to kind of feel that confidence and belief in my game.  I don't feel like I'm trying to force anything.  I'm just kind of taking each shot as it comes and just playing really solid golf.  So that's good fun.   
 Q.  Is there a weight off your shoulders, do you feel, having won the SA Open?  
CHRIS PAISLEY: Yeah, definitely.  I'm trying not to be too too comfortable because I tend to play my best when I put myself under a little bit of pressure, obviously not too much but I don't want to get too comfortable and think I've got an exemption or whatever.   
I want to push on, and got a chance of getting into the WGC in México, and if I get in that, then who knows.  I'm really just kind of trying to keep doing what I've been doing and push on.   
 Q.  Give us a sense of the conditions and how pleased you were with any particular part of your game today?  
CHRIS PAISLEY: Obviously it was a great day for scoring, the course is set up perfectly, we had beautiful greens, being one of the first groups out.  It was quite firm which can make it tricky if you're not in the fairway to get the ball close to the hole.   
Yeah, you can tell by the scoring, there's not much wind out there and the greens are beautiful, so guys will be holing putts.  That's kind of what I did today.  I hit a lot of really nice iron shots between kind of six and 15 feet a lot of time and managed to hole my fair share of them, as well.   
 Q.  Is there a particular highlight you enjoyed?  
CHRIS PAISLEY: Just my putting overall.  Felt as though I was really seeing the lines.  I holed a good one on 15.  Wasn't that long of a putt, but it was a good putt to keep my round going.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT