ROSE BOWL GAME: TEXAS v SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA
January 2, 2006
Lendale White
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Are you a mudder?  Do you like playing in this stuff. 
 LENDALE WHITE:  I like playing in the snow, I like playing in the hail, whatever it is.  It's just different elements of the game kind of makes it hard but a lot more fun. 
 Q.  What does Pete Carroll do as a coach that makes you so much more -- (Inaudible)? 
 LENDALE WHITE:  The same things he does all year.  We still run the same plays, we run the same style practices, the same style everything.  Tell-the-truth Mondays, competition Tuesday, turnover Wednesday, no-repeat Thursday.  It's always the same stuff, never switches up.  We know our schedule every week.  We know what we're going to get, we know the plays we're going to run and that's what makes it effective. 
 Q.  Have you ever sat back and looked at the fact that you're going -- (Inaudible)? 
 LENDALE WHITE:  The picture that we could our third straight National Championship.  At the same time, it is day by day.  You can't really win a championship without preparation and you can't win it without working hard and taking it day by day.  If you're not getting better at practicing day by day, you won't be at the top when it's time to go for a Bowl. 
 Q.  (Inaudible)? 
 LENDALE WHITE:  We might be the end of this generation of Trojans, but I think it will continue with Coach Carroll.  It's going to be hard to stop him, to stop him from getting receivers and running backs every year.  When you consider we're one of the greatest teams with one of the greatest coaches, it's not hard to get talented players. 
 I mean, I don't know if this is the end of the Reggie era, that has to be because the years are over, but still. 
 Q.  Obviously things worked out for you and Reggie together, you both had success.  But when you came or you heard he was coming, were you concerned at the amount of carries you would get? 
 LENDALE WHITE:  I actually decided first and I knew Reggie was coming already.  We committed on the same day actually.  San Antonio, it was all over, All-American.  I had talked to Pete before that and he said he was going to commit, and I felt like Reggie was one of the best football players that I had seen in a while, and if he was coming to USC I wanted to come and play with the best.  What helped me out coming here was I knew he was one of the greatest football players to play with. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT