MOUNTAIN WEST CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 10, 2005
Joel Anthony
Lon Kruger
Ricky Morgan
Michael Umeh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








COACH KRUGER:  Just a hard-fought win.  I'm really proud of our guys.  I thought they hung in there and battled.  We got into a margin midway through the second half and played with that down the stretch.  The kids were going to fight and compete, and they did that and came back late and made it very interesting.  I'm really proud of our guys.  I thought a lot of guys stepped up; Michael Umeh in the first half was just terrific, and I thought our big guys inside battled Wyoming's big guys and held their own on the boards, and I thought Ricky did a terrific job down the stretch of handling the ball and getting to the line and converting.  It was a very good win and a hard-earned win. 

Q.  Can we talk a little bit about that first half run where you were hitting all those threes?  What the heck was going through your mind?

MICHAEL UMEH:  It was just trying to be aggressive, just trying to come out and get a good start, just trying to be aggressive, trying to attack.  Just hit a few shots that got us going. 

Q.  I was just wondering defensively what you did to keep Wyoming out of sorts on their offensive end. 

JOEL ANTHONY:  In the post, we were just trying to make sure we fronted the post, trying to deny a lot of the post catches.  Their big guys are pretty good so they could hurt us a lot offensively, so we just tried to deny them as much as we could from engaging the score. 

Q.  Ricky, you get in that roll shooting free throws there.  How tough does it get after you've hit 12, 14, 16 in a row to keep focusing?  Do you just keep rolling or do you think, I'm due to miss one one of these days?

RICKY MORGAN:  I just didn't want to go home.  I've been shooting I think under 60 percent for the whole season from the free throw line and I wasn't too proud of that, so tonight when I got to the line, I was just trying to focus and shoot the ball straight.  Our assistant coach, Coach Henson, always tells me just shoot it straight, get up there and follow through, and I did a good job of that tonight. 

Q.  Ricky, can you talk a little bit about Michael's run there early in the game?  You're out on the court; what do you think is going on when the other starters aren't scoring but yet everything and anything he puts up goes in?

RICKY MORGAN:  I'm just so happy for Mike.  He was one of the guys here with me this summer and he worked really hard.  As of late he's been carrying us a lot offensively and we've been leaning on him to get us going.  He's been our emotional leader, and tonight he got some big shots and big time drives to get us going. 

Q.  Michael, how do you feel about handling this burden that's been placed upon you to kind of lead this team the last month?

MICHAEL UMEH:  It's no problem.  You know, I know the guys have a lot of respect for me just like I have a lot of respect for the guys.  It's a team effort.  If they look to me to do those type of things, I'm willing to step up always and take that responsibility. 

Q.  Michael, this was a game, at least from those of us who were watching it, that just appeared to be very strange.  Your run early, starters not scoring until early into the second half, Ricky's situation going to the free throw line endlessly at the end of the game.  As you're playing this game did you get a sense that this was something real bizarre?

MICHAEL UMEH:  It was a little different down the stretch.  We knew we had to keep fighting, keep attacking, keep trying to play good defense and do good things to try and get things going.  You just want to make good things happen. 

Q.  Coach, did you use the altitude as any factor at all in your substitutions when you were rotating? 

COACH KRUGER:  Not really.  We have not really talked about that at all.  None of the guys have made any comments that were concerning about their fatigue or lack of wind.  I don't think it's been on anyone's mind. 

Q.  Joel, can you talk about facing Andrew Bogut again?

JOEL ANTHONY:  Well, you know, I'm definitely ready to go out there and play against him.  He's a really, really talented, skilled player.  We've just been watching a lot of film, already played against him already.  He's obviously a tough match-up, toughest post player in our conference, one of the best in the country, so I just know the job I have to do and I'm ready to go out there and get it done. 

Q.  Ricky, at times late in the game you guys didn't look like you had a whole lot of composure, yet somehow you managed to hold it together.  Could you talk about how maybe this last three-week run of winning games and finding ways to win games played into that?

RICKY MORGAN:  I just think different guys have been stepping up.  Each of the wins that we've had as a team effort, cohesive effort, nobody can do it but ourselves, so at times when I have lapses or Mike or Joel or somebody else on the team, somebody else usually steps up.  Curtis Terry has been played great, Villepigue has been playing great for us.  We need everyone to win games.  We can't do it ourselves.  When somebody is out of sync, somebody steps up and usually just feed off each other. 


Q.  Coach, same question basically that I asked Ricky and Michael about just the weird flow of this game.  Did you get a sense as you're coaching this thing just how up and down and sideways this whole game was going?

COACH KRUGER:  Well, especially there in the last quarter of the game when it got very disjointed, all the fouls, all the little mini-runs.  We'd get to 9 and then they'd cut it back to 5, 6, and we couldn't quite get away from them, and again, you don't expect them to stop fighting and they didn't.  Very tough to finish that game. 

Q.  Going off of something Ricky said about other people stepping up, if someone had told you that Odartey Blankson was only going to score five points, would you believe you would win this game?

COACH KRUGER:  Well, it would be awfully difficult to think that.  Odartey has been so consistent for us offensively.  He's scored big for us every game with the exception of one, and in that ballgame, I think it was Air Force, some other guys stepped up and did a nice job.  Like the guys mentioned, different guys have stepped up at different times.  I might Michael and Odartey have stepped up and been there, but different guys have stepped up and complemented their play.

Q.  Can you talk about facing the Utes and how to slow them down on the backboards when they're so good?

COACH KRUGER:  I don't know that I've got the answer for that.  No one has.  New Mexico played them extremely well in The Pit, and Ray has done a great job and Bogut is so terrific that he'll take it if you don't double him, but he's very comfortable making plays for his teammates if you do cheat too much onto him.  I think they're a terrific basketball team and playing well, and each guy is playing with great confidence and great conviction with regard to their schemes.  That's why they're the best team in the league.

Q.  Why were field goals so hard to come by today, other than Michael in the first half?

COACH KRUGER:  We had a lot of pretty good looks there early that we couldn't get down and even some lay-ups there in the second half.  It seemed like we got to the rim but couldn't finish.  Maybe it was just that first tournament game, who knows, but we certainly are going to have to do a better job tomorrow to have a chance to hang with Utah. 

Q.  The attendance at this tournament is down markedly since it moved to Denver.  Do you think this is a good venue for this tournament long-term or would you like to see a different site?

COACH KRUGER:  The tournament is here so we're a very big fan of the tournament in Denver.  Obviously there might be some other options down the road that we might be excited about, but right now we're excited about being in Denver.  The facility is great and the hospitality around the venue is great and the people are working awfully hard at it, so we're excited about being here. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT