NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: FLAMES v LIGHTNING
May 29, 2004
Darryl Sutter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  To what extent was this game about establishing will to win? 
 COACH SUTTER:  Well, I think both teams have the will to win.  I think that we wanted to play more disciplined, patient type of game tonight.  I think we got that. 
 Q.  The physical tone was set right from the beginning; a couple of major checks in the first minute then to have a guy like Chris Simon score the game-winner somehow appropriate time? 
 COACH SUTTER:  Well, it's supposed to be physical, as long as it's disciplined.  I think a big part of the game was killing the first penalty off.  Getting a penalty called against you in the first shift is hard on you. 
 Q.  Your team kept the shots down, the big hits, Kipper gets the shutout, your best player gets the goal, assist and the tone setting fight.  Was this a blueprint for what Flames' hockey is all about? 
 COACH SUTTER:  It was one of them deals who scored the first goal.  It was like a 30-second game, Kiprusoff, Richards on the breakaway, we come right back, score.  That's the hockey game. 
 Q.  During the fight Tortorella was clapping and cheering for his player.  What were you thinking on the bench when you see your best player and their best player fighting? 
 COACH SUTTER:  I was just watching them fight I wasn't clapping or cheering.  I was just watching them fight.  Our best players are used to doing that.  
 Q.  Chris Simon took criticism for taking penalties, things like that earlier, did you come close to making him a scratch ever and what goes into thinking of putting him on the line with Jarome? 
 COACH SUTTER:  First part of your analogy or who did he take criticism from? 
 Q.  Me. 
 COACH SUTTER:  Oh, okay.  Is that a question? 
 Q.  Did you ever come close to scratching him? 
 COACH SUTTER:  Not ever once.  Four goals coming in tonight, three power-play goals in the playoffs.  He's missed 11 games, I think, due to injuries, so.  
 Q.  At one point in the second period did you do the line switch with Iginla, Nilson and Simon, how did it come about? 
 COACH SUTTER:  It wasn't the only one we changed or used.  It's part of coaching, I think  -- I mean they use probably 25 different combinations tonight.  Our guys are used to playing with everybody. 
 Q.  Seemed like your guys had a lot of time and space in the second period.  How much of that  -- 
 COACH SUTTER:  Geez, I didn't think that.  I thought it was a really tight area game both ways.  When it comes down to, our power play scoring a goal to make it 1-nothing, I think it's pretty tight 5 on 5.  I think the first period was a little bit out of joint because there was five power plays total, I think.  So I thought it was a really tight, close game, and as I said to Terry at the start, it was about us staying patient and staying within it, within what we can do. 
 Q.  When you had Kiprusoff last year in San Jose at the start of the year and didn't get off to a real good start, then he became available this year, were you targeting him at any time or was it just a case he became available? 
 COACH SUTTER:  Well, obviously when we had goaltenders go down for a length, Roman was gone anywhere from three months to the season.  Obviously then we had to look for a goalie.  There wasn't much available other than $8 million one and obviously that doesn't fit for us. 
 Q.  It was more than that you had him in San Jose? 
 COACH SUTTER:  Obviously that was an impact on it.  It's nice to have to know the player that you are  -- if he's available. 
 Q.  Did you think you got the kind of game officiating-wise that you would, given that you got Kerry Fraser who is  -- 
 COACH SUTTER:  We got two best veteran officials in the National Hockey League.  I mean, there's four remaining and tonight the two senior guys reffed, so.  
 Q.  Is it anyway significant that Lecavalier was, by all accounts, the best player in Game 2, that's who Iginla picks as his dance partner? 
 COACH SUTTER:  No.  I don't think so.  I didn't even see what started it.  I think  -- hey, it's about excitement and enthusiasm.  I don't know what  -- nobody talks about hockey.  They just want to talk about when there's a fight.  I am just glad you didn't ask me, do you like Jarome fighting?  (Laughs).  That's usually the headline. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT