NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: FLAMES v LIGHTNING
May 27, 2004
Darryl Sutter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  What were your thoughts about what happened at the end of the game? 
 COACH SUTTER:  Couldn't see what happened at the end of the game. 
 Q.  Last few minutes? 
 COACH SUTTER:  At that point the game is over when it's 4-1 or 3-nothing. 
 Q.  Do you have any idea why in the playoffs this year the team that scores the first goal has had so much success game after game almost? 
 COACH SUTTER:  Hopefully because they are well coached.  (Laughs). 
 Q.  Would you describe tonight's game as something they did as opposed to something you didn't do? 
 COACH SUTTER:  Hey it's 1-nothing going into the third period, you know, we have the big kill and make a mistake for them to score the second goal.  It's 2-0.  Doesn't matter.  You knew they were going to come out hard and they did.  I thought Lecavalier and especially Lecavalier and their defense dominated, especially the first part of the game. 
 Q.  Seemed to be calling a lot of penalties in the first period.  Did you get -- 
 COACH SUTTER:  Obviously there was a summit yesterday or sometime in the last 36 hours in South Florida on something, so  -- just ride with it, I guess. 
 Q.  Obviously you weren't invited to the summit? 
 COACH SUTTER:  No, I don't have that degree. 
 Q.  You mentioned Lecavalier.  What was it about his game, whether it be today or the first game that's impressed you? 
 COACH SUTTER:  He made a great play on the first goal, first off against, you know, our best checking centerman, he beat him behind the net.  And then, you know, for a big guy, he was a physical player, too, I think that he followed Jarome's lead from the other night. 
 Q.  After two periods you mentioned it was 1-nothing and Miikka Kiprusoff had played very well.  Do you feel as though he played well throughout the game, and do you expect that he will be as good or better the next one?  He's 4 and 0  -- 
 COACH SUTTER:  I thought about taking him out when it was 4-nothing there, but, you know, just to give him the rest, but he was fine.  He didn't really -- the shots, they were getting, again, were outside for the most part, other than three or four plays, so he was fine.  I don't think there's  -- I don't think he was an issue. 
 Q.  As a team what do you guys need to do better next game against Tampa Bay to stop them? 
 COACH SUTTER:  Win.  It's all right? 
 Q.  What do you got to do? 
 COACH SUTTER:  Our skill  -- in the first period other than Jarome our skilled players, man, our workers worked, but we had some skill players that weren't as effective in tough areas as their skilled players. 
 FastScripts by ASAP Sports 
1 
Coach Sutter - Post-Game - 5.27.04 
1 
 ...when all is said, we're done( 
FastScripts ( by ASAP Sports 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT