NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: FLAMES v LIGHTNING
May 25, 2004
Darryl Sutter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.  Your comments tonight on Jarome Iginla? 
 COACH DARRYL SUTTER:  The shorthand goal is the difference in the game for us.  One goal wasn't going to obviously be enough to finish the game, that's for sure.  You could tell the way it was going.  That was a huge goal.  That's a second-effort goal, I thought he  had everything going, his feet going, he was driving to tough areas.  He was really good. 
 Q.  With their power play being as good as it is, were you a little concerned with the Nieminen elbow on Richards? 
 COACH DARRYL SUTTER:  We don't have to take that penalty.  But other than that, there's, you know you are going have to kill four, and quite honest I am not  -- I am not going to talk about the thing. 
 Q.  Neutral zone traffic kind of a change up in second period, was that by choice or design? 
 COACH DARRYL SUTTER:  Choice and design are the same word. 
 Q.  Any thoughts about the Flames closing in on the NHL Playoff record of road wins? 
 COACH DARRYL SUTTER:  Not really.  We know being the lower seed that we got to play four out of seven on the road, so we knew coming in that we were going to have to win games on the road.  Honestly tonight's game, I thought they weren't as sharp as we have seen them and I think that we had times where we weren't as sharp as we have to be either. 
 Q.  Could you talk about your goaltender, Kiprusoff, even just specifically on St. Louis tonight. 
 COACH DARRYL SUTTER:  I think prior to them scoring the goal, he made two or three big saves. 
 Q.  Just a comment on how the ice conditions might have affected your strategy in the game tonight? 
 COACH DARRYL SUTTER:  As the period goes on, it's really tough.  I mean, we had the one power play late in the first there.  You couldn't do anything with it.  We got to deal with it.  It's the same for both teams.  But you wish it was better. 
 Q.  Talk about the penalty killing and how little space you gave them, very aggressive. 
 COACH DARRYL SUTTER:  I thought really good but the play they scored on is a play that they use and we knew that, so we should have been better on that. 
 Q.  Does the makeup of your team actually fit the underdog role or going on the road first has it worked out pretty well for you starting these series on the road? 
 COACH DARRYL SUTTER:  Worked out pretty well tonight.  We knew we would need four lines with the five days off and to get everybody into it and I thought it was pretty balanced.  I thought that they could have and Clark line did a good job for us as far as playing well on the road, I don't think that has anything to do with your lineup.  I think that's got to do with style and system. 
 Q.  You said both teams played sloppy tonight, what would you do  -- 
 COACH DARRYL SUTTER:  I didn't say both teams played sloppy. 
 Q.  What would you do better in Game 2? 
 COACH DARRYL SUTTER:  We're going to have to have a better first period.  The score doesn't indicate the play in the first period. 
 Q.  Do you expect to have as many odd-man rushes in games two through the rest of this series?  Look like the potential was  -- number you had tonight? 
 COACH DARRYL SUTTER:  I think in the first period there was, but I don't think we were as sharp as we have to be. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT