NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: FLAMES v SHARKS
May 16, 2004
Darryl Sutter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  I guess the good news is you're going back on the road?   
 DARRYL SUTTER:  Good news is we get to play again right away.   
  Q.  Are you glad about that because momentum is a big thing in a series, the fact that you're right back at it tomorrow night even though you don't have the momentum?   
 DARRYL SUTTER:  I don't know if that's personal or not, but I think both teams and most players would rather be playing than sitting around at this stage.   
  Q.  Have you been able to figure out what happened to your team when they come home?   
 DARRYL SUTTER:  I thought we played a really good first period.  Again, you have to take each series separately.  I thought we played really well the other night.  It was 1-0 in the third period.  And I thought tonight we had a really good first period and then we turned the puck over.  Our fourth line turns the puck over 200 feet from our goalie and then misses an assignment coming back.  That's a big goal, Mike Rathje's goal.  Then we come back and Jarome Iginla and Marty drive the net and score and then make it 1-1 and then we turn it over again.  Kiprusoff turns it over, too I think it was -- so turnovers cost us the game.  It's got nothing to do -- wouldn't have mattered where we played.   
  Q.  How do you assess Kiprusoff's performance?   
 DARRYL SUTTER:  I think it was his weakest performance of the playoffs.  Reminded me of Game Two quite honestly, the opposite.   
  Q.  Do you think Chris Simon is being picked on?   
 DARRYL SUTTER:  I think they got -- hey, Niemo and Simon got to be careful.  It's -- I know exactly what they're being told and it's the same thing that two or three players on their team.  And they got called tonight for those incidents too.  It's the same for both.  It's not unfair, believe me, it's the same for both.  The difference is when you allow -- if you're going to take that penalty, Vincent Damphousse and Patrick Marleau are elite powerplay players in the National Hockey League.   
  Q.  You talked all season about 7-game increments breaking down the season and how consistent your team has been.  When you look at this, you're 2-2 into a 7-game increment.  Are you concerned, are you where you want to be?   
 DARRYL SUTTER:  My biggest concern -- hey, man, if somebody told us we would be 2-2 in the conference finals, I'm sure we would say, hey, that's where we want to be.  But my biggest concern is we had two or three guys -- and I know you're playing guys out of role a little bit, but we had a couple guys not play very well for us tonight.  So I know they have to play better for us to beat the team we're playing.  That's what concerns me more than where we're at or where we're playing.   
  Q.  The powerplay concerns you?   
 DARRYL SUTTER:  Geez, I thought our powerplay tonight was -- if they score on their opportunities, that's, I mean, it's the same as theirs, they scored in their opportunities and we didn't.  It's not just about our powerplay, last game was the best powerplay that we have had all playoffs.  We didn't score on it.  And tonight when -- you got to simply score on your powerplay at this stage.  It's the same thing they did tonight.  They put their left-handed  slammers down back there and get somebody to the front of the net.  And that's what we are trying to do.  Goes guys in the back end were better than our guys in the back end.  That's for sure.   
  Q.  So does the lack of finish concern you?   
 DARRYL SUTTER:  Darn right.  Even in the second Leopolds it right on the tape there and he fans on it.  He did it twice.  That's the guy that's got to produce for you, whether you like it or not, at this stage we count on Robyn and Jordan to be good players for us and they weren't as sharp as they could have been, that's for sure.   
  Q.  Can you talk about Robyn on that second goal, plus the punch to the back of the head?   
 DARRYL SUTTER:  The second goal is -- there's a play that we work on all the time when our goalie get the puck there and Robyn is in the right position.   
  Q.  Oh, he is?   
 DARRYL SUTTER:  Yeah.   
  Q.  What about on the penalty right after that?   
 DARRYL SUTTER:  That's a needless penalty.  Certainly.  I think he was frustrated with his own game.  That's why he took that penalty.  I don't think it had anything to do with who it was on or anything like that.   
  Q.  Aside from turnovers and discipline, what else do you need to do tomorrow night to turn it around?   
 DARRYL SUTTER:  Well, I think aside from that, those are huge issues in winning and losing.  I mean it's like I said, this game to me is a mirror of Game Two.  The same concerns they had with their weak goals and defensive turnovers.   
  Q.  Why are first goals winning these games?   
 DARRYL SUTTER:  I think both teams are so good defensively.  And I think it's the time of the year.  You look at it, we have -- you look at the four games now the big thing after Game One was well, geez, how are you guys going to not give up so many shots the next game.  Well, over the last three games we have given up like 20, and after two periods tonight, they had had four or five five-and-five scoring chances.  Two of them went in our net.  So it's the type of teams that we both teams are.  They're not going to give up much and you got to take advantage of the opportunities.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT