NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: FLAMES v SHARKS
May 15, 2004
Darryl Sutter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q.  Can you talk about Jarome and Robyn being named to Team Canada? 
 DARRYL SUTTER:  Well, I think Jarome is a given.  That's automatic.  I don't think that's even a question. 
 I think Robyn, you know, obviously bias from my standpoint, but for sure he was -- he would have to be on that list with all those young defensemen. 
 Based on the way he's played probably since Christmas on, I would bet elevated him into a position to be named.  It's great for him. 
 I mean, when you look at the eight defensemen that they did name, the six are returning players, and the two are -- two guys added, Redden and Robyn, are guys I know from my standpoint, you look at it, those returning six, if something -- if there is an injury or something, a guy like Regehr replaces Adam Foote and Chris Pronger.  So if you look at it, it's pretty good. 
 That's a hell of a statement for him to make it.  Canada right now, if you look at how it's evolved, Canada now has probably 12 top defensemen in the NHL, young defensemen.  Five years ago, I think that was a concern when you looked at the guys that were the top guys. 
 Q.  Toni Lydman's status, he skated today. 
 DARRYL SUTTER:  I don't even want to talk about players -- till I see him practicing with his teammates, then I'll consider him as part of our team.  Right now he's an injured player. 
 Q.  You saw so much of Patty Marleau's development. 
 DARRYL SUTTER:  Same thing.  It's great to see all those young guys, Patrick, Brenden Morrow, Robyn.  Hey, that's great for them because it's an evolution for them.  They're different type of players, but now they've elevated themselves to that level for their country.  That's great. 
 Patty, you think about it, 28 goals the last two years.  You know, he's come a long ways, too.  That's great to see them guys.  You know, talking to players today, Canada gets named today, but the other teams are going to get named, too.  There's players, young guys, on both teams that get that chance again maybe. 
 That's great. 
 Q.  Andrew Ference didn't skate today. 
 DARRYL SUTTER:  No, he didn't skate today. 
 Q.  Any reason behind that? 
 DARRYL SUTTER:  He had a black eye. 
 Q.  In the lineup tomorrow? 
 DARRYL SUTTER:  What time does the puck drop? 
 Q.  2:00. 
 DARRYL SUTTER:  If you come to warm-ups, he's still there at quarter after 2, then he's in the lineup. 
 Q.  Monday's game, back to back, does it mean anything? 
 DARRYL SUTTER:  You know what, I think you look at it, starting -- gee, I don't know.  I think both of us are going to get in there right around 9.  It's not that big a deal.  7:00 game, then we all gain that hour, so I don't think it's that big a deal. 
 I mean, I think both teams would rather have played yesterday.  But, you know, there's nothing we can do about it.  Both buildings... 
 Q.  How important is keeping home-ice advantage after stealing it from San Jose? 
 DARRYL SUTTER:  I don't think it's been that important in the playoffs, to be quite honest.  When you go in, it's not a home-ice team, if it's an advantage, then you're out in the first round.  I don't know what advantage it is.  There's no advantage. 
 I know the team we're playing has many guys from there.  They might consider it home-ice advantage, to be quite honest (smiling).  I'll tell you what, if I was a player from western Canada and -- and I'm not saying it because we're Calgary, but if I was a player from western Canada, wouldn't matter what time I was on, if I came in this building, I'd get excited. 
 I don't know how that's an advantage.  It's an advantage of where you're from. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT