NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: FLAMES v SHARKS
May 13, 2004
Darryl Sutter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  Q.  Can you talk about the team's performance offensively in these playoffs?  You guys have actually raised your average goals per game from the regular season?   
 DARRYL SUTTER:  Well, I think a lot of that's based on overtime, also.   
  Q.  That could be one.   
 DARRYL SUTTER:  If you think about it, in the regular season, you get to five minutes, leave, get your score, leave it.  I think that has an impact on it.  It's the reason why you're still playing, though.  You score that goal in overtime, you're still alive, so...   
  Q.  A lot of guys say them paying attention to the details, the team paying attention to the details in the defensive zone helps in the transition, which results in a couple extra.   
 DARRYL SUTTER:  The most important part of offense is first pass.  I mean, that's critical to their team and critical to our team.  It's not so much from the blueline to the net, it's your blueline back to your net.  It's the first pass.   
 If you look at Game 1, the turnover ratio that we had in our zone compared to Game 2 was the difference in the hockey game.   
  Q.  There's always talk about starting each game with a clean slate, regardless of whether you win or lose.  Is there anything you can tell us about a routine or a process as a coaching staff you go through so your team does have a clean slate?   
 DARRYL SUTTER:  You know, this bloody schedule in the Conference Finals is so screwed up, you know, you look at it, you have an afternoon game, 7:00 game, then you come up here, play an 8:00 game, get two days off, go back to an afternoon game.   
 I think our routine has changed.  Even tonight, this is different.  You go to 8:00.  Obviously, nothing our team can do about it because it's TV and building schedules.  You like to be on a little bit more of a normal operation, routine.   
  Q.  Would you say, is there a part of your foundation as a staff, is it a video prep, on-ice prep?   
 DARRYL SUTTER:  I think we do both, depending.  You get home 2, 3 in the morning, schedule in for treatments.  This morning, trying to get their legs back under them.  We usually do a video session, some kind of a meeting, special teams or something.   
 You know, I think right now, I know who gets credit and criticism, but it's largely up to the players now, you know, in terms of they're the guys that got to block shots, bleed and sweat, all that.  I think you can overcoach them at this point.   
  Q.  I know you touched on it in the past, but again you're back in Calgary, the city is nuts, you'll probably have a crazy reception at the dome tonight.  Can you talk a little bit about that?   
 DARRYL SUTTER:  Well, we're used to it now so it doesn't matter.  To be quite honest, I haven't paid much attention to it.  The difference tonight is, it's the Western Conference Finals.  We haven't played a game in our building in the Western Conference Finals.  San Jose hasn't played in our building in the Western Conference Finals.   
 What's past is past.  It's like talking about the first two games in San Jose.  They're basically irrelevant now.  You get nothing for two games, or you get nothing because the crowd was great in the last series.  That has no bearing on this now.  It's totally different.   
  Q.  Do you have to talk to your guys to avoid looking ahead?  Do you keep them on message?  Did you talk to them about staying on message?  A few of them have been down this path, in this position before.   
 DARRYL SUTTER:  I think they've been consistent with their keeping it -- you know how they keep it.  You wouldn't have known yesterday if they won or lost.  That's how they'll be tomorrow, too.   
 You know, the key with our team, I've said it a thousand times, is just to stick to the game plan and use the time on the clock, don't get caught up in one period or one shift.   
 They do a good job of that.   
  Q.  Have you been amused or amazed to see the sniping going on between the two coaches in the Eastern Conference?   
 DARRYL SUTTER:  I didn't know it till this morning, one of the guys hollered at me.  That's the first I saw it.  Whatever, I mean...   
 Whatever they got going on, fine.  I mean, it's not about coaches.  It's about the players.  I can't get it into it with Ron like that anyways, because he's better spoken (smiling).  And I know him.   
 Good enough?  Thank you.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT