NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: FLAMES v SHARKS
May 9, 2004
Darryl Sutter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q.  Is this a more wide-open game than you thought you'd get out of Game 1? 
 DARRYL SUTTER:  Well, both teams could really skate.  It was more wide open than both teams wanted, probably.  But at the same time there -- other than the overtime goal, the goals were all -- if you look at all three of their goals are guys going to net, tips and deflections.  Even our goal in the third, Conroy's goal, he's just throwing it at the net.  So was it more wide open than we'd like?  Probably, yeah.  I think our young defensemen made some mistakes that they'd like to have back.  
 Q.  Against Detroit you said if you could just steal Game 1.  Did you say anything like that to your team before this one?  
 DARRYL SUTTER:  Well, the bottom line is, I would bet it's easier to win the first game in this building than it would be Game 7 (smiling).  So I don't know.  You know, really, the turning point of the hockey was not that they tied it up or we went ahead in the third.  The turning point was when both referees called the minor penalties late in the first to give them a full two-minute power-play and then not scoring on it.  Say what you want, but that's the difference in the game.  
 Q.  I noticed at the end of the game you and your assistants were having a conversation, chuckling.  Was it something that happened?  
 DARRYL SUTTER:  No, two guys jumped on me.  "Get them off, geez."  
 I wasn't chuckling.  
 Q.  I'll strike that.  
 DARRYL SUTTER:  Strike that from the record (laughter).  
 Q.  Simon back from the knee, Oliwa back in the lineup today.  
 DARRYL SUTTER:  We dressed every healthy body.  The five days off, the only guy that helped is Chris Simon.  Guys who didn't play tonight that played in Game 6 of the last series were hurt today couldn't play.  
 We need to get it from other areas.  Monty scores for us tonight, Oliwa scores for us tonight.  That's what you needed.  
 Q.  Can we expect the rest of the series to be played at this pace? 
 DARRYL SUTTER:  Well, they are two fast teams.  I mean, so that's how they want to play.  It's fun.  
 Q.  Will the coaches get ahold of this and try to slow it down or are you happy having it played like this?  
 DARRYL SUTTER:  Well, I don't think our players like playing slow games.  I know theirs don't.  
 They're two fast teams.  This is by far the fastest team we've played in the last month.  If we don't skate with them, we're going to be sitting in the penalty box.  
 Q.  What did they do against Iginla?  
 DARRYL SUTTER:  They did a really good job against him down low in their zone.  They took away the middle of the ice.  A lot of those plays where he drives traffic to shoot, they took it away.  He drove with it, but they took the shot away or took the puck away on him.  
 They did a good job against him.  It's not like they used a set line against him.  It appeared they tried to use the one set, pair of defensemen.  It was either Marleau's line or Ricci's line.  

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT