NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: RANGERS v KINGS
June 4, 2014
Darryl Sutter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for coach. 

Q.   Your thoughts on Regehr.   I guess he is available technically. 
COACH SUTTER:   He's getting closer.   With only the one game, the way it's broke out this week, we probably wouldn't play him tonight. 

Q.   Wouldn't?
COACH SUTTER:   Yeah. 

Q.   Can you comment on the challenge that Ryan McDonagh offers your team. 
COACH SUTTER:   Obviously he's gotten a lot better as the playoffs have went along.   You can see the difference in his confidence, his game, his puck play, all those things. 
The experience of it for him.   It's a big challenge for us.   He is the Rangers' Doughty.   I'm sure they're talking about Drew and we're talking about Ryan McDonagh. 

Q.   It's difficult to ask this question in a way that might not get your eyre up.   Does your goaltending have to be better in this series than it has been to this point?
COACH SUTTER:   I think the goaltending, not necessarily talking about ours, but I think if you look at the two Conference Finals that went on, you had Carey Price, Henrik Lundqvist, on our side you have Corey Crawford, Jonathan Quick.   The reason those teams were in it, big part was those four guys.   That's the big reason why both teams advanced, is because of Jonathan Quick and Lundqvist.   Now it will be that challenge again. 

Q.   Are you at all concerned not only the number of goals that he's given up but the way that the goals have gone in?
COACH SUTTER:   No, I'm not concerned.   He's been fabulous.   Not just looking at this year's playoffs, I look at the whole body of work. 
I tell Jonathan all the time, You pick a goalie in one game, I want Jonathan Quick. 

Q.   Favorites, underdogs.   Do you read much into the talk that L.A. is the favorite because of recent history or is that something you never look at?
COACH SUTTER:   You know, we always have to answer those questions.   It just depends who you think the favorite is. 
When you get to this point, you go past it.   I think both teams deserve to be here.   We finished with four more points than them during the regular season.   They played 20, we played 21.   Just depends who you want to bet on, and I can't bet on them, so... 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT