NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: KINGS v BLACKHAWKS
June 1, 2014
Darryl Sutter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Coach Sutter. 

Q.   Is part of bouncing back and being resilient the ability to put the soft ones or the bad ones behind you and keep going?
COACH SUTTER:   Just looking at last game for the most part.   We bounced back from the Smith goal.   Ain't going to score all fancy goals. 

Q.   Have you been surprised at some of the goals that have gotten behind these two goaltenders?
COACH SUTTER:   Just been a lot of traffic and both teams putting pucks out at the net. 
With the skill sets of some of the players, they're able to probably challenge the goalies more one‑on‑one than we would see maybe in regular season. 

Q.   How would you assess the play of your second line the last couple games?   Are you happy with their overall play? 
COACH SUTTER:   Ask that question again.   Who is that second line? 

Q.   Jeff's line. 
COACH SUTTER:   They played pretty well for us. 

Q.   Do you have any special Game 7 memories that stick out above others, either as a player or as a coach?
COACH SUTTER:   I remember Game 7 against Pat Burns, who was one of mine when I was a young coach, I remember that one against Toronto.   Quite honestly, the old Norris.   I remember that Game 7. 
I remember obviously losing Game 7, Stanley Cup Final against Tampa. 
The other ones, there's quite a few of them.   I can't quite honestly remember. 

Q.   5‑1, the road teams in Game 7s this playoff season.   Is it just roll of the dice?   Coincidence?   You've always said you like home ice for Game 7. 
COACH SUTTER:   I'd prefer Game 7 as a head coach at home because there might be one time during the game where you get‑‑ there's not much advantage in home ice anymore other than one change.   As I said before, the buildings are pretty much the same.   You know the glass and boards. 
The officials, this will probably be the third time we have this set of officials in the series.   They know what's going on.   All those things have become more the same. 
So in terms of the home/road, other than maybe once during the game when you get a little bit of an edge maybe on a change or something like that.   But I don't think there's any luck involved or any of that. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT