NHL STADIUM SERIES: KINGS v SHARKS
February 20, 2015
Darryl Sutter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Is there anything you learned from last year's game at Dodger Stadium, how to close gaps and the puck travels faster maybe?   
DARRYL SUTTER:   Well, actually, from Chavez Ravine to here last year, it was better just the temperature the night before or when we went, but it didn't change as much.  
   
 Q.   What did you do with your off day yesterday?   Was that just to be able to get ready for this trip and being ready to start anew here today?  
DARRYL SUTTER:   Well, we wouldn't be playing on Thursday.  
   
 Q.   They had told us there was going to be a family skate.   But I don't think you guys brought many family?   
DARRYL SUTTER:   No, we had last year they had their families in and skated on the road (No Microphone).   But we didn't even have one.  
   
 Q.   You guys are in a grind right now obviously.   Does this come at a good time to give it a mentally different look at a game?   
DARRYL SUTTER:   You know, we've played really well for the last three weeks here, and just got to continue to just grind.   It's a busy schedule.   It's really important for us to play it like that.  
   
 Q.   Having played in last year's game, do you think of the awe or the factor of maybe guys won't be in as much awe as they might have been if it was the first time?   
DARRYL SUTTER:   Last year was significantly different because we were playing in an historic building last year.   So other than that it's different.   (No Microphone).   I thought it was pretty unique last year and pretty special to be able to do it.   To be able to do it two years in a row for a lot of guys it's obviously never going to happen again for them.  
   
 Q.   Think a lot of the people from the league's headquarters in New York would like to keep coming out here for outdoor games in the winter time.   
DARRYL SUTTER:   I think from (No microphone) to the East last year, but I like playing in the snow too.  
   
 Q.   Would you like to play some place like Minnesota?   
DARRYL SUTTER:   I told my family that.   Actually when we were playing in the snow.   I made sure they came.   I really think that they think everybody's played outdoors and the players haven't.   Those guys are young.   They may have skated outdoors, but very few played the game, other than last year, outdoors.  
   
 Q.   Do you allow yourself to look around and take in the moment or do you have a singular focus because of the importance of the game?   
DARRYL SUTTER:   Oh, no.   I'm sure it's all the players and it's a lot of people.   You say 70,000, but it's probably more than that.   From my standpoint if you think about it, if you had said 40 years ago to me that we could have played a game in Chavez Ravine and played one in the Bay Area, that was not the greatest thought, and we did play outdoors.  
   
 Q.   You've played but never played outdoors with 70,000 fans?  
DARRYL SUTTER:   I think there were a million fans.  
   
 Q.   In your minds anyway, right?   
DARRYL SUTTER:   Yeah.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT