NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: KINGS v BLACKHAWKS
May 21, 2014
Darryl Sutter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for coach.   
   
 Q.   What kind of influence do you think Mike Richards has on your young guys?  
COACH SUTTER:   Well, he's a winner.   Pretty much done it his whole life, first and foremost.   He's a guy that relates well with everybody.   He's not a guy that's off on his own.   He spends a lot of time with those young guys.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about having a couple of days off to regroup coming into this game?   Has it been nice?  
COACH SUTTER:   It's not really regrouping.   We would have preferred to have played yesterday.   Once playoffs start, you want to go every other day, if you can.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about Tanner Pearson and Tyler Toffoli and Jeff Carter, the speed element that line has brought you through these playoffs?  
COACH SUTTER:   They haven't played very much together in the playoffs.   Tanner and Tyler played a little bit together.   Tyler and Jeff have played a lot together, so...   
If you just base it on shifts, they're probably seven or eight minutes a game together.   Not a dramatic thing.   It's more based on we got to get Jeff out there a lot.   It's probably based on more how those guys are playing.   
Jeff plays two positions, which is an advantage for us.   He's a penalty killer, power play guy.   If it's a five‑on‑five game, impacts how much guys play together.   
   
 Q.   The Blackhawks are the last undefeated team at home in the playoffs.   In your opinion, what makes them so tough to play here?  
COACH SUTTER:   Hopefully the Los Angeles Kings can beat them once.   Think they won the Stanley Cup last year because they're not a great home‑ice team?   Doesn't all of a sudden happen in playoffs.   They're historically a great home ice team.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
COACH SUTTER:   Probably pretty good everywhere if you got the record they got.   
   
 Q.   Will you try to keep the Kopitar line away from the Toews line?   Is that something that's very difficult to do as a visiting coach?  
COACH SUTTER:   It's not that big a deal to us.   I mean, Kopy and Gabby and Browny, that's a good matchup for us.   I think everyone wants to see that.   
It's a pretty even matchup, I think.   It's not that for us.   It's after that.   
   
 Q.   We know that Crawford has been playing really well these last couple games.   How do you plan to get more pucks past him tonight?  
COACH SUTTER:   Just get more shots, try to get to the net more, bear down on opportunities.   
Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT