NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: RANGERS v KINGS
June 13, 2014
Darryl Sutter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Los Angeles  – 3
  New York  – 2
  2 OT 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Coach Sutter.   
   
 Q.   When you won in 2012, you said it crossed your mind in that moment these guys should push for more Stanley Cups.   
COACH SUTTER:   We did it a different way in '11.   That's something that I don't think could ever happen again if you go back to that because of winning as a road team all the time.   
This year was totally different.   A lot of new players in our lineup.   We knew we had to at some point.   During the Olympics, I always thought about this, How are we going to beat Chicago?   How are we going to beat Chicago?   
Dean got Gaborik.   We were able to put some kids in, go from there, so...   
   
 Q.   Can you begin to describe what depth the team had to fight to to keep coming back, going to Game 7s, how much effort and will that took?   
COACH SUTTER:   Yeah, I think it takes a lot of effort and will.   But I think once you did it as a group, the nucleus of your team, I've said it lots and we talk about it lots in the room, the winning and losing part of it.   It sounds off the wall, but a lot of times when you lose a game, you're actually winning a lot of other areas and you just believe in it.   
It showed up again tonight.   I mean, just over and over and over, went through it.   We had to switch guys around tonight.   Just started gutting it out.   
I told some of the players, Should we win the Stanley Cup this year in a different way, it just tells you we actually got better.   
   
 Q.   Dustin Brown handing the Cup to Robyn the first time, is that representative of how tight your group is?   How tough was it for you to tell Robyn you couldn't change the mix?  
COACH SUTTER:   I told Robyn that last night.   Again, it goes back to last year, we got beat in the Conference Finals.   Robyn got out of the hospital, played games, had to go back to the hospital, played games.   
He'd been out so long, that's your biggest concern.   Quite honestly I thought about it again this morning, about how much trust you have in everybody.   Like Jeff Schultz gave us...   
Willie, Greene and Robyn in the playoffs didn't play every game.   It just tells you that need a lot more than the six.   
By Browny doing that, it tells you how they feel about each other.   
   
 Q.   What did you see as the puck went into the net to win the game?  
COACH SUTTER:   I couldn't see it.   Basically at that point the players are in sort of attrition, trying to get 20 or 30 seconds each.   There was some ebb and flow in overtime, but I think our whole game was very consistent in terms of we were good in the first shift, we were good in the 20th shift, we were good in the 30th shift.   
This team, you got to give them lots of credit.   Tonight is their 26th game.   Is it 26?   I'm not so sure that will ever happen again.   You talk about 26 games plus how many overtimes.   We probably played close to 30 games since the 20th of April.   That's pretty significant.   
You got to give these guys full marks.   
   
 Q.   I know you're focused on your group, but what are your thoughts on the team in the other dressing room?  
COACH SUTTER:   You know what, somebody said, Congratulate Glen Sather and the New York Rangers, what they did this year, what they accomplished.   It's a difficult road.   The key is, you make the playoffs, you win the Stanley Cup, you got to do something special to get there.   To get through three teams in your conference is very, very significant.   Then to play each other, it's like a whole new schedule again.   
   
 Q.   Doughty and Carter winning both Olympic gold and the Stanley Cup, not a lot of guys have done that, but your role in terms of realizing when they came back from Sochi how you had to manage them.   
COACH SUTTER:   Drew told me he was going to win two in one year.   He said that.   He said he was going to win the gold medal and win the Stanley Cup.   
   
 Q.   When did he tell you that?  
COACH SUTTER:   I think he told me two or three times.   I know when they named him to the team, Jeff and the kids were named that day, we were in there early, that's vivid in my mind.   
When he came home, they met us in Colorado, that's what he said, he was going to win the gold medal, he did, and he said he was going to win the Stanley Cup.   
   
 Q.   What do you make of Justin Williams being named the MVP?  
COACH SUTTER:   It's fitting.   His third Stanley Cup.   It's great for Willie.   You could see how emotional he was about it.   
But we had 29 players.   You could put 29 players on it.   
   
 Q.   Could you hear the fans chanting, We want the Cup, as the team came down the ice?  
COACH SUTTER:   They say that all the time.   They get spoiled (smiling).   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT