NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: RANGERS v KINGS
June 12, 2014
Darryl Sutter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Do you still have the same level of frustration after last night or have you put it in the rearview mirror?  
COACH SUTTER:   No, you move on really.   I don't think it was really frustration.   I think it was a lot of opportunities to tie a game, win a game, score a first goal, all those things.   Didn't quite happen.   
Move on, be in a good place today, be ready for tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Your team is used to travel.   What time did you get in?   
COACH SUTTER:   5 hours and 22 minutes.   We landed just about 3:00 right on the button.   
We're used to it.   It's something when you get home, you're close to work.   It's like there's another hour today.   Some guys will come in at noon, some guys will have a skate, some guys will skate tomorrow, so...   
Once you're here, it's always better to get in the weather.   It doesn't affect us much, I don't think.   
   
 Q.   What is it about Jeff Carter's makeup, his disposition, that makes him such a consistent hockey player?  
COACH SUTTER:   I think he's a well‑trained athlete, which allows him to do that.   I think he's a guy that has a really tight focus on game days.   He understands the kind of player he is.   Pretty much has thrived on that here, for sure.   
   
 Q.   Obviously two years ago you guys clinched on your home ice.   I know you wanted to end it last night.   But the chance to win it at home, does it mean anything more for you guys?  
COACH SUTTER:   Every opportunity is an opportunity to win a game or be eliminated or win a series.   Doesn't make any more difference tomorrow than it did last night.   That's a fact.   
   
 Q.   Drew said last night he wasn't concerned about the Rangers getting anything out of that game, momentum, new life.   Do you concur with that?  
COACH SUTTER:   I think the question was asked several times.   Asked again last night about momentum.   I know it's usually media‑created.   
There's momentum during games and momentum with penalties, momentum with scoring chances, things like that.   But if it was always about momentum from game to game, then most series would be over in four and it wouldn't be called four‑out‑of‑seven, it would be the team that won the first game must have the momentum, and the team that won the last game must have all the momentum.   
I don't think you get to that point ever, quite honestly.   I've never been a believer in that because it bears itself out.   
   
 Q.   You've talked sometimes during the playoffs of being happier with some of the games you lost than ones you won.   Last night you carried so much of the play.   Are you ever truly happy after a loss?  
COACH SUTTER:   I don't like the way the goals were scored against us last night.   It was basically right after a penalty, a penalty that we didn't have to take after winning a faceoff.   
The second one was obviously losing a battle at the net.   
You got to score three goals to win.   I've said that.   I know some don't agree, but it's true.   I've been in it long enough.   You got to score three goals to win, you're pushing it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT