NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: KINGS v DEVILS
June 11, 2012
Darryl Sutter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Coach Sutter. 

Q.   For three games now your team as shown up with a chance to win the Stanley Cup.   Does the process change, the mental process, as you continue to repeat that process? 
COACH SUTTER:   I think the mindset has to be, or is, the same thing as when a series starts:   to try to win the game, not getting further than that.   Then it becomes a distraction or outside distraction.   I think that's the key.   That's something we've been able to do really well. 

Q.   Talking to the players, there seems to be a great tranquility within the Game 6 tumult.   What did you tell the fellows to get them so calm?
COACH SUTTER:   I really haven't talked to them much, other than we did some video and had dinner together last night, hockey video (smiling). 

Q.   Your goalie's levelheadedness, can you speak to that as a strength. 
COACH SUTTER:   We need him to be a great strength for us.   If you look at the series, we're up against a great goaltender.   We need that out of Jonathan.   So both guys are still playing because they can manage that. 
Obviously Marty has more experience with it.   But that's what Jonathan's trying to do also. 

Q.   You said you had a team dinner last night.   Is that a regular thing?   Can you let us in a little bit on what you're trying to do when you have all the guys together. 
COACH SUTTER:   We do it as much as they want, quite honestly, when we're on the road.   At home during the playoffs, we've done that. 
Most teams are pretty diverse in terms of their ages and lifestyle, what they like to do.   That's what our players like to do. 

Q.   Is Gagne still in tonight?
COACH SUTTER:   You get here at 7:22, then when they make that starting lineup announcement, there's a large roar and he's in, then you know he's in (smiling). 

Q.   Do you treat this at all like a road game to maybe get rid of some of the distractions or outside stuff?
COACH SUTTER:   No, no.   I think what we've said right from the very start of the playoffs, because this team has not been in this, in a playoff environment, for more than two or three games, most of these guys, right, the whole playoffs, that I wanted them to have the experience of being in this building and being close to this building.   That's what's more important for the big picture for these players.   It's not anything other than that. 

Q.   Do you notice anything different when you look into the players' eyes from Game 4 to Game 6?
COACH SUTTER:   I don't even look that far back.   You know what, we played really well in Game5.   Game4 is a long time ago.   We had the two days between.   We played really well in Game5.   If we can continue to manifest that, we're in good position. 

Q.   Would you coach any differently if the series was even 3‑3 as opposed to 3‑2?
COACH SUTTER:   I don't think so.   I think both teams have put veterans in to try and get through the rough water a little bit.   Zajac's line plays a lot.   Kopitar's line plays a lot.   I don't think anything different.   Both teams' special teams, you look at it, it's almost a saw‑off.   There's only subtle things that only you see in the locker room, little changes, where you move guys two or three feet, or on faceoffs or something like that.   But, no, I don't think so. 
See you tonight. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT