NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: KINGS v DEVILS
June 6, 2012
Darryl Sutter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Coach Sutter.   
   
 Q.   Darryl, any lineup changes tonight?  
COACH SUTTER:   We'll make the decision after warmup as per every home game.   We have extra guys.   We don't know their lineup, so we're not sure of ours either.   
   
 Q.   How do you like Simon's game the other night?  
COACH SUTTER:   I answered it yesterday.   Hopefully he's better tonight.   
   
 Q.   You have played so well.   Even though there's a lot more at stake tonight, do you try to keep everything the same?  
COACH SUTTER:   I think routine is really important for players.   Do the same thing today as we did last game.   It's not that we have to change anything, that's for sure.   You know what, as I said all along, there is a point that it's about the players.   The farther you go, the more games you play, so...   
Just pretty much leave it at that.   
   
 Q.   Darryl, the players will admit to having a little bit of uneasiness yesterday because there was time to think.   Today there's no time to think.   What about you yesterday?   
COACH SUTTER:   Went to the rink, did our normal work.   Went to the hotel last night, had a good sleep.   Drank my pail of coffee this morning, ready to go.   
They're people.   You know what, anybody who is on this stage, either team, they want to play.   Days off are just about traveling, reloading, that's it.   
   
 Q.   Is there a certain amount of shutting the outside world off that needs to happen?  
COACH SUTTER:   Yeah, I think we've done a good job of that right from the start.   Most of the kids hadn't been through this at all, the playoffs, the whole procedure of it, process.   They've done a good job of getting in that swing.   
When you talk about routine, it's the same thing.   They take care of all that business, personal stuff, yesterday, and that's it.   
At the same time you want them to experience ‑ we've said that every round and game ‑ enjoy the challenge of it, enjoy that part of it because lots of them, as I've said, it's first time, last time, only time.   
   
 Q.   I've called you the Zen master.   You profess to know no Zen, yet every act you do is Zen.   
COACH SUTTER:   I don't know what it is.   So I don't profess to know (laughter).   It's like hockey Yoga.   
   
 Q.   You just mentioned players, could be the last game.   
COACH SUTTER:   It's true.   Do you know?   I don't.   Nobody does.   There's only two teams that I know of that have went back‑to‑back finals, and they had to lose and win.   That was Pittsburgh and Detroit.   They played each other back‑to‑back.   
It's true.   That's what it's about.   
   
 Q.   As a coach, is it more heightened, that feeling, not knowing whether you would ever make it back or not?  
COACH SUTTER:   No.   It's not about the coaches.   It's about the players.   I said that.   It's sort of repetition, but they're the guys that do the work.   See you at 8:22 Eastern, right?   
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT