NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: KINGS v DEVILS
June 2, 2012
Darryl Sutter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Coach Sutter. 

Q.   How does your team not get ahead of itself trailing 1‑0 in all of these series?   They just focus on Game2. 
COACH SUTTER:   I think they've went through such a stretch of it probably from the trade deadline on of just trying to stay focused on the one game, the importance of that one game.   I think that helped them carry over into the playoffs. 

Q.   When you took over, did you use Doughty any differently? 
COACH SUTTER:   Probably wasn't much different than any of the other recognized or high‑end guys.   Try to get them to use their skill set, make sure he was a better‑prepared player on a game‑to‑game basis, practice to practice. 

Q.   When you talk about preparation, was that showing him video how to get pucks through?   Other little things you worked on to maximize him?
COACH SUTTER:   You know, so much, not just Drew, but so much of the high‑end, top players, no different than our team or any other team, they're kids that really haven't had‑‑ you know, they're sort of thrown into the spotlight instead of actually learning how to handle it. 
I think that's the biggest thing, is because he plays a lot of minutes and he's looked on as an offensive player, he's a high‑paid player, all those things.   There's a lot of pressure that comes with that.   They put a lot of pressure on themselves.   You take a little bit of that off by just sort of minimizing what they have to do out on the ice, I think it helps them. 

Q.   Like giving him little goals, smaller jobs within a game?
COACH SUTTER:   No, more utilizing the skill set.   You know what, he's a great skater.   He sees the ice well.   Great competitor.   Things like that.   Do those things incrementally, focus on things like that, you have a chance to be a really good player. 

Q.   When did you think Doughty started to get to the point where he's playing like he can?
COACH SUTTER:   Like he can?   Hopefully tonight. 

Q.   Obviously he still has room to grow.   When did you start to think he was starting to really play well? 
COACH SUTTER:   I've never seen him play poorly.   I think that's the part of the problem, right?   I think the expectations that are put on him, they're not real.   I mean, you have to do it on a game‑to‑game, shift‑to‑shift, period‑to‑period basis.   Not like he's 30 years old, been in the league 10 years. 
I mean, I don't look at it as if he has a bad game.   Again, it's just doing those little things well. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT