NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: KINGS v DEVILS
May 29, 2012
Darryl Sutter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Coach Sutter. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
COACH SUTTER:   The more games you win, the more you advance.   How much of you would you say is goaltending?   Probably a lot of it. 

Q.   What is the coolest thing for you personally about being in the final? 
COACH SUTTER:   From a personal standpoint?   Seeing young guys go through the playoff experience for the first time.   There's so many players on our team that either hadn't been in it or hadn't been in the first round or else had never won a round.   That to me is the best part of it.   Gives me shivers to see the guys enjoy it the way they do.   It's like a family always. 

Q.   When Brent left the Devils to come and play for you, are you aware of how disappointed Devils fans were to see him go?
COACH SUTTER:   No.   It wasn't Brent and the Devils, it was Brent's family.   He had a daughter that's in high school.   It was too hard for them to be away.   Just too much of an issue for them to be that far away from each other. 

Q.   As a coach coming in with a layoff, how do you coach Game1 to get them on task?   Is it you or the players?
COACH SUTTER:   I think it's both.   You do so much video and all that stuff the last few days.   Not trying to kill you or overload you on it, but we have to stay in it and on it.   The next step is tonight and tomorrow, the individual preparations.   It's to get back into the compete part of it. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
COACH SUTTER:   It's pretty close.   I've done a lot, too.   We're all 2.9, somewhere right in there somewhere.   When you do it over the course of the season, it's a 3‑2 league, so three times 82 is right around 240.   You know, if you're 165, you win the goals‑against.   If you're in the 240s, you're one of the highest‑scoring teams. 
That's going to have some bearing on the teams still playing in the playoffs.   Usually that goals‑against goes down and the goals for goes minimally up.   Last time I was in a Stanley Cup, the scoring in that series, that was pre‑lockout, the series score was 14‑13.   Usually gets pretty tight, it does. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
COACH SUTTER:   I don't know if it makes it to the final.   But I know it's something we try to put into place here, not where you're giving up anything, but more of a forceful game. 
You know, you're trying to emulate teams that do that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT