NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: KINGS v COYOTES
May 21, 2012
Darryl Sutter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Coach Sutter.   
   
 Q.   Are you emphasizing shooting quicker?   What do you say?  
COACH SUTTER:   Well, shots blocked.   If you're blocking shots, that means you have time to block the shot, right?   
We scored goals five‑on‑three where they weren't allowed to block shots, so we should be able to do that again five‑on‑four.   
   
 Q.   Reviewing last night, do you come away with basic parts of the game are still good, or are you seeing any areas of slippage?  
COACH SUTTER:   Well, we must be fine, right?   It was a 2‑0 hockey game.   Could have lost 1‑0 in triple overtime.   It's the same thing, right?   We had more opportunities than they did to score.   We didn't finish scoring chances.   
One is a goalie rim, one is a faceoff play.   Pretty fine line there.   
   
 Q.   The Bruins proved last year you don't need a good power play to win the Stanley Cup.   Any way the power play is overrated?   
COACH SUTTER:   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   How so?   
COACH SUTTER:   Bruins won the Stanley Cup (laughter).   
There's not many power plays in playoffs.   It basically boils down to top guys, right, most of them.   Sometimes you do and sometimes you don't.   I think now we're plus‑one power play penalty kill.   
   
 Q.   What did you make of all those missed shots last night?   
COACH SUTTER:   Missed shots?   I don't think there were a lot of missed shots.   Put a lot of pucks where he was able to manage them.   I watched 6:30 this morning.   Didn't change what I saw live and what I saw, right?   
Boed, Gordon and Pyatt blocked five or six shots.   That was the difference.   And they're good at it, you know.   We have guys that are good at blocking shots, too.   That's probably why we have a good penalty kill.   
   
 Q.   What was the biggest difference you saw between the way your club played in Game4 and what we'd seen earlier on?  
COACH SUTTER:   Not very much at all.   
   
 Q.   Did you notice any difference in their game?   
COACH SUTTER:   I don't think change in terms of structure.   They did two new guys in their lineup last night that didn't play the previous game, Hanzal, Aucoin.   Even though Aucoin only played 12 minutes or something like that, it makes a big difference.   He's a experienced guy that moves the puck, allows them to put their lines back together the way they were.   
Other than Torres, their lines are the same, when you look at it last night, that they were most of the season.   
   
 Q.   You are undefeated on the road.   What is your team's confidence going out there?   
COACH SUTTER:   Try and win the next game.   Could be in Tucson or Toledo or in LosAngeles.   To me it has no bearing on anything.   It's always now, today and tomorrow, not last week, next week.   
That's the best part about being in the playoffs, is it's always about your next game, not about something that happened 30 years ago or two days ago, right?   That's the best part.   
   
 Q.   Did you see anything different in their play once they were able to play with the lead for a while?  
COACH SUTTER:   The four teams playing, they're very structured teams.   If you understand the game, the X's and O's, you understand that leads are better because of structure.   Teams play disciplined.   It's a lot easier to play with a lead because you can play as a team better always.   
What was Michael Jordan's famous line?   Structure gets me to the fourth quarter and then I take over.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks, coach.   
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT