NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: KINGS v COYOTES
May 19, 2012
Darryl Sutter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Coach Sutter.   
   
 Q.   Your team is one win away from a stage a lot of your players have never been at.   How do you keep their eye on the ball tomorrow?  
COACH SUTTER:   Try to harp detail on them.   Hopefully they have the preparation skills to do that.   
   
 Q.   Will Fraser go back in?  
COACH SUTTER:   Didn't talk about Fras the other day because it was a personal issue and he wasn't hurt, wasn't what you would call a healthy scrap.   
Unless Dave's coming up here and telling you who they're playing, I'm not telling you who we're playing.   
   
 Q.   What do you expect from a team down 3‑0?  
COACH SUTTER:   Same thing we saw last game.   No difference when you're down in the series, right?   You're going to get the same thing we got in the first period last game, for sure.   I mean, that's logical, right?   
If I was those guys, I'd be doing the same thing.   So expect that.   
   
 Q.   What was the key that first period for both you and Phoenix?   
COACH SUTTER:   I think they're really good in neutral zone and we weren't as good.   
   
 Q.   What about the plans for tomorrow morning?   Do you have a sense of how that's going to play out?  
COACH SUTTER:   We've done it once already.   The routine is there.   So we've done it once, do it again.   
   
 Q.   Figured out how to dodge the bicycle race?  
COACH SUTTER:   It's only a mile walk downhill (laughter).   Really, it is, right?   I've done that.   It's actually a little more than a mile.   How many blocks is that, like 12 blocks or something?   All that is blocked off.   
   
 Q.   Are you excited about tomorrow or cautious?  
COACH SUTTER:   I think you have to be able to channel all that because if you don't, it doesn't work, right?   I mean, there has to be discipline and control.   I'm not a rocket scientist, and they are people.   So you control it.   
It's a team thing.   It's not an individual thing.   
   
 Q.   What is your take on all the attention?   Is L.A. a hockey team now?  
COACH SUTTER:   Hockey team?   Black and white, they're a team.   
   
 Q.   A hockey city?   
COACH SUTTER:   I guess I live in Manhattan Beach, go to L.A. for the games.   Manhattan Beach, nice, quiet town (smiling).   
   
 Q.   For particularly your young guys, young players, do you like that they seem to be really relishing this?  
COACH SUTTER:   The biggest thing, everybody was caught up in the team staying downtown, the Stanley Cup Playoffs.   You know what, experience is experience.   It's awesome for the young guys.   They haven't had it.   Most of them hadn't even won a playoff game.   
Why not experience the experience, right?   Same thing you're doing.   Experience the experience, right?   It's the best part of it.   Why shouldn't they be able to do that?   That's the only way you get it.   Otherwise you go watch another team play, right?   That's the best part of it.   
Go to the other side, talk to Phoenix.   It's an awesome experience for them.   Why wouldn't you want that?   
   
 Q.   Not letting it overtake them?   
COACH SUTTER:   I think there's times it certainly has, right?   I mean, somebody just asked about first period last game.   If we would have lost that game, you'd be asking, We didn't handle it very well.   There's a fine line between winning and losing.   What's the difference?   Not very much.  
   
 Q.   What about for Darryl Sutter eight years ago, knocking at the door with the Flames.   Getting a little giddy?   
COACH SUTTER:   No.   Everybody makes a big deal of that.   Quite honestly, had better teams after that and we lost in the first round, so...   
You know what, that's how close it is.  
   
 Q.   Three months since the Carter trade, has he been easier to integrate into the team because he had relationships with other guys that were already here?  
COACH SUTTER:   No.   
   
 Q.   Has he integrated?   
COACH SUTTER:   Yes.   What does 'integrated' mean?   
   
 Q.   I was just following up on his question.   
COACH SUTTER:   Why would he be harder than anybody else?   You know, 65% of the players are Canadian.   Lots are from Ontario.   He's from Ontario.   He's played two positions.   He's young.   Our team is young.   
Why would it be hard to integrate?   I mean, he's a good player, so...   
   
 Q.   Jordan said his dad is in town.   Have you had a chance to talk with his dad at all?   
COACH SUTTER:   Jordan?   
   
 Q.   Nolan.   
COACH SUTTER:   No.  
   
 Q.   I asked the players in general if they have any appreciation for what the Coyotes have had to go through in terms of ownership.   He said, No, we're worried about ourselves.   Do you have any appreciation for them, for their journey here?  
COACH SUTTER:   You know what, I appreciate, because I understand their coaches, who they are, what they do, right?   Jimmy Playfair and I have been together in lots of situations.   I know some of the guys on their team, so...   
It's a good place to live, obviously.   It's a good hockey team.   That's kind of what everybody wants.   
Heck, I went to San Jose when they were a 60‑some‑point team.   I went to Calgary when there were 8,000 or 9,000 people watching games.   If you get a good team, generally you get a chance for people to watch.   It would be nice to keep that team in the league.   That's the way everybody looks at it.   You guys, too.   You want to go to Phoenix.   We all do.   
   
 Q.   Westgate is nice?  
COACH SUTTER:   Absolutely.   Good building, good fans.   When you have a good team, they want to come and watch.   We've all seen it.   That's what you want the most, for sure.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you.   
   
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT