NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: FLAMES v LIGHTNING
June 7, 2004
Darryl Sutter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Just wondered did you see this as just your team just having so many injuries and being so battered that you know?   
 DARRYL SUTTER: In the end we ran out of gas.  We tried to  -- winning Game 5 actually hurt us more than it helped us because the injuries were sustained in it.  The longer the series went the tougher it was going to be.  I think we tried to summon all we could in terms of energy.  In the end, they had more legs than we did.   
  Q.  Could you tell that all night or was that just a feeling you got as the game went along?   
 DARRYL SUTTER: I knew that.  I mean, you could see it early and you know what, we played as well as we could.  Let's not forget.  Hey, we got beat by a great team.   
  Q.  Now that it's over can you tell us the injuries you sustained in Game 5?   
 DARRYL SUTTER: Donovan sprained his MCL and Robyn his ankle I am not sure if there's a break or a ligament, I am not sure.   
  Q.  Coach could you talk about the officiating tonight; did you think it was fair at all?   
 DARRYL SUTTER: I am not  -- you know what, we had Mike Murphy and Andy Van Hellemond for the series and you can't ask for absolutely two better people to control a series.  I thought they did a great job.  I mean if you had to pick  -- what is the question?  If you are going to pick officiating for Game 7 who do you want?  Who are the two; Carey Fraser and Bill McCreary are the perfect guys for it.  (Laughs).   
  Q.  You were just talking about how injuries caught up with your team.  Just discuss how you were able to play so well in the Final ten minutes, Regehr coming into play despite injury and the heart this team showed?   
 DARRYL SUTTER: That's what it was at the end.  That's what they were playing on and that's all they had left.  I am disappointed for them.  I want to congratulate the Tampa organization, Jay, did a hell of a job.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT