NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: FLAMES v LIGHTNING
June 6, 2004
Darryl Sutter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Have you had a chance like Marty to watch the ABC replay and take a look at that picture on the front page of the Calgary Sun? 
 DARRYL SUTTER: You know, it's what I said last night you just go right past it, and they had the same replays six or seven views that we have and it's deemed inconclusive or not conclusive.  That's fine.  I understand that. 
 Q.  There's a report last night Robyn Regehr left the Saddledome with a cast on his left foot.  What can you or are you willing to tell us regarding his status for tomorrow? 
 DARRYL SUTTER: I am not willing to tell you anything regarding his status  - LAUGHTER) - for tomorrow. 
 Q.  What is the difference between the team that was 5 and 7 at home and the one what is 10 and 3 on the road, what differences do you see in the club? 
 DARRYL SUTTER: The differences that we have won two series, we have won the second round and the third round at home, so I look at it like we have won two big games at home and we have won a big game on the road. 
 Q.  Is there a benefit to playing this game on the road?  Obviously I am sure it would be nice it play in front of home fans... 
 DARRYL SUTTER: I don't think it  -- I have said it, you guys have asked that a lot during the Playoffs, but I don't think it's had a huge impact on our team where we play. 
 Q.  Distractions at home in some respects though? 
 DARRYL SUTTER: You hope there aren't distractions at home when you get to this point.  Obviously, I think in the first period of last night, some of our top guys were affected by that. 
 Q.  Coach, Jarome was very candid on saying he wasn't happy with his effort in Game 6.  How confident are you in his ability to bounce back himself in the biggest game of his career? 
 DARRYL SUTTER: I would think I am very confident. 
 Q.  Darryl will Robyn play tomorrow? 
 DARRYL SUTTER: What do you want me to say, yes or one of the two?  I don't know if he will play tomorrow. 
 Q.  You have had several messages during the course of the year and even during the series.  What is the message to your team as you go into Game 7? 
 DARRYL SUTTER: You know what, the game tomorrow if you look at the last two games are both 3-2 overtime games.  If we had lost Game 5 in overtime we lost Game 6 in overtime, we're not here today, right, or if we would'a won Game 6 and lost Game 5 there's Game 7.  If we won Game 5 and lost Game 6 there's Game 7.  So there's Game 7. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT