NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: FLAMES v LIGHTNING
June 3, 2004
Darryl Sutter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Any response to Commissioner Bettman's statement from last night? 
 COACH SUTTER:  What was his statement? 
 Q.  He called your comments your remarks ill advised, inaccurate and inappropriate? 
 COACH SUTTER:  Whatever he says. 
 Q.  Obviously I don't think you want to expand too much on yesterday, but clearly your remarks made League wide, created League-wide attention.  Do you stand by everything you said yesterday?  Do you feel it was emotional and again do you  -- 
 COACH SUTTER:  It wasn't emotional.  It wasn't emotional.  I told the truth.  The truth hurts.  Not everything you read or hear is fact or fiction, but when you tell the truth sometimes it hurts. 
 Q.  Tony Lydman ready to play? 
 COACH SUTTER:  You know, he's still in the protocol for days, so to answer truthfully he has to get through today again, so ... 
 Q.  As the series has gone on obviously it's getting more intense and this series has gotten, for lack of a better term, kind of ugly.  How important is it to stay out of the penalty box tonight? 
 COACH SUTTER:  I don't think it has been a big issue, I mean you look at it to be perfectly honest, the power plays in this series are 23 -17.  If you look at it through the course of the playoffs, you know, Tampa has just marginally more penalty minutes than ours, if you look at special teams, like our power play and our penalty killing in the four games, if you prorated it through the season, would be outstanding, so I don't look at that part of it at all.  I think five on five for our team -- to be successful, our team has to play better five on five. 
 Q.  In the first three rounds your team has seems to get better as the round goes on.  Some of your best games are Game 5s and Game 6s.  Why does it get better as the series goes on? 
 COACH SUTTER:  I don't know.  I mean, you prefer to, you know  -- it's the old line.  Remember when we sat in dressing room, it's not how many you play it's how many you win.  So I don't know.  I don't know, I guess it's getting warmed up, I don't know. 
 Q.  Do you want to take back anything that you said yesterday? 
 COACH SUTTER:  I am done with yesterday.  It's game day.  Do you want it take back anything you said yesterday?  Do you?  It's game day let's concentrate on game day. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT