NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: FLAMES v LIGHTNING
June 3, 2004
Darryl Sutter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  The mental toughness of your hockey team, is this what we saw tonight?   
 COACH SUTTER:  We obviously  -- I mean you got to be mentally tough to stay with it that long.  It's a tough rink to play in and we just wanted to try and generate a little bit more 5 on 5's and our guys did a good job on that.  At the end they were rewarded.  We didn't feel coming into this game that we did enough around their net in terms of rebounding and getting screens and exactly  how we scored was that rebound.   
  Q.  Jarome Iginla once again is big for you  --   
 COACH SUTTER:  Found his second gear in overtime.  That's again something that comes from  -- way down inside there somewhere.   
  Q.  Can you talk about Jarome's effort there, that Final shift, just he was out there for a very long shift and still made something happen.   
 COACH SUTTER:  He played a lot obviously because Dono Monday went down there, so our right side, we were moving guys around.  As long as he was fresh he went.  Like I said it was a second or third effort.   
  Q.  Any comment about how Oleg Saprykin played this evening?   
 COACH SUTTER:  He knew he was going to play a lot.  He played both Wings.  It was good to see him score.   
  Q.  Talk about your team's play through two periods and  --   
 COACH SUTTER:  Played with composure, a lot of composure and a lot of discipline.  We didn't get frustrated when we felt that, you know, especially in the third when we could have -- we thought we could have had a couple of goals.  Our players never got frustrated with that.   
  Q.  Unusual to give win a game when you give up a goal in the last minute of a period  and the first minute of a period --   
 COACH SUTTER:  I don't think that.  I think what is more important is the ability to play through that.  There's going to be bends in the game all the time.  There just can't be breaks.   
  Q.  There was talk between the games that the extended break would be better for Tampa.  How did the break affect your team especially with all the turbulence that went on?   
 COACH SUTTER:  I don't think that affected us at all be quite honest, that side of it.  You know how we deal with that.  Hey, we expect -- we know what our role in this is and we're going to fight through it, do everything we can.  I don't think that  -- I don't think we looked at the break like it was a break, actually.   
  Q.  How is Shean Donovan?  He tried  -- he took another shift after he was injured, but --   
 COACH SUTTER:  He has got a charley horse, honestly.  (Laughs).  Truth.   
  Q.  Toni Lydman came in after a long layoff, how did you feel about how he played?   
 COACH SUTTER:  Somebody asked me this morning and Toni Lydman was not playing tonight.  He meet the trainers then made the decision this afternoon that he was going to go in warmup and that was it.  So when I talked to some of the guys this morning, they asked about him they said he wasn't  -- you know, we were going to give him at least another day and it was his call.  So he made the call.   
  Q.  What does it feel like to have the opportunity to win a Stanley Cup at home in Game 6?   
 COACH SUTTER:  Man, this is game by game, that's what it is.  It was so hard tonight and you know, you look at last game how  -- hey, we thought we played really well in the one-nothing game, too.  Such a fine line, so we're going to just take a few minutes and get our rest and then try and reload.   
  Q.  How did you think Lydman played in the game tonight and was it nice to have a guy that can give you a few more minutes?   
 COACH SUTTER:  It's not easy.  He's missed 20 games.  It's hard to believe that in Playoffs but he's missed 20 games, so to step back in -- he had had four days of practice, so he's one of those high-end skilled guys that we miss obviously.  I mean, you guys know our lineup and we missed him.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT