NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: FLAMES v LIGHTNING
May 31, 2004
Darryl Sutter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  The effect of the penalties on the game?   
 COACH SUTTER:  Well, the only goal scored two minutes in on a 5 on 3.  What is a penalty in the second shift, not a penalty in the first shift.  A penalty in the second shift, not a penalty in the third period.  Whatever.  That was a hell of a hockey game.   
  Q.  They appeared in the third period obviously they played almost Calgary Flames' hockey and how they defended the lead?   
 COACH SUTTER:  It's the first goal and then defend, a, they did a good job of it.  It's the same thing that we do.   
  Q.  Lack of a discipline there by Nieminen there at the end?   
 COACH SUTTER:  Definitely a penalty.  It's called a five minute penalty because they react to the player going down.  It's a two minute penalty.   
  Q.  Then you would expect no supplemental discipline in this incident?   
 COACH SUTTER:  Next question.   
  Q.  You had the chances, you just --   
 COACH SUTTER:  Hey, second period, we had great chances and missed the net.  I think two right off the top of my head.  That's what it's about, one-goal hockey game.  That's what it's been.  You have got to bear down the opportunities to present themselves against two teams that aren't going to give you many chances.  I can think, as I said, I can think of two great ones:  Saprykin and Leopold.   
  Q.  You could have been one game away from clinching the Cup, do you see this as a lost opportunity?   
 COACH SUTTER:  I'd seen it as Game 4 of a best of 7.  Same thing I said this morning, you can't question anything other than that.  To think that it was -- our deal always is to make it as long a series as we can and we did everything we could tonight to win, I think.   
  Q.  The fact that you have been at 2-2 three times before, is this an advantage going into Game 5?   
 COACH SUTTER:  Never thought about it.  I don't know how that's an advantage or a disadvantage.   
  Q.  I think this might have been the only game you won in the faceoffs circle?   
  COACH SUTTER:  Funny because we were so good everywhere, except getting the 5 on 3 called against us.  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT