NL DIVISION SERIES: CUBS v BRAVES
September 30, 2003
Carlos Zambrano
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  How does your back feel?  How does your arm feel?

CARLOS ZAMBRANO:  It feels much better.  I have been working with all the exercises I have to do, and it's  -- I'm feeling good.

Q.  You said you pitch better with emotion.  Do you think that will help you tomorrow?

CARLOS ZAMBRANO:  Well, yeah, emotion will always be with me, I will mix that with a little bit of calm.  I'm very calm right now, and I have confidence in myself, and I think -- so tomorrow will be a good game for me.

Q.  In your last couple of starts, how did your arm feel compared to earlier when you were pitching very well?

CARLOS ZAMBRANO:  Well, I wasn't feeling that good.  In Cincinnati, I was feeling the same way that I feel when I won six games in a row.  I don't feel tired.  I don't feel anything in my arm, and yesterday, I feel good.  I think I did a really good job and worked with some pitches and I feel good.  I feel very good.

Q.  The only time you faced the Braves was just before the All-Star break and you had a tough time then.  What's the difference now as the way you were pitching then?

CARLOS ZAMBRANO:  Well, I said that I was a little bit excited at that game, and, you know, I made some errors in pitching and they create hits.  I haven't faced them this year.  I have some examples for tomorrow what I have to do, and it's go out there and fight like we have been doing the whole season long.


Q.  The outcome of tonight's game, does that impact on how you pitch tomorrow, your approach to tomorrow's game?

CARLOS ZAMBRANO:  No, in a game you have to make 27 outs to get the victory and then you can say, we won.  You have to make 27 plus 27 plus 27.  I don't know.  You have to make 27 and 27 and 27 to go to the next step to face Florida or 
San Francisco, so they win tonight, they have to make 27 more outs and 27 more outs for the next two games and if it's necessary, 27 more and 27 more. 


Q.  Is the key to winning the Braves keeping the one and two hitters off the bases?

CARLOS ZAMBRANO:  Yeah, of course.  When you have Furcal and then you have Chipper Jones and Gary Sheffield, if you make those two hits out, then that's better. 


End of FastScrips...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT