WGC EMC WORLD CUP
December 8, 2000
Carlos Franco
Esteban Isasi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








CARLOS FRANCO:   I think that playing the foursomes for the first time is difficult.  Esteban had a problem at the beginning, but I have encouraged him and we had talked a lot about it, and after the little accident we got on the 9th hole, we started to play much better. 

ESTEBAN ISASI:  Well, I am very happy with my game today.  I had two bad shots, the tee shot on the 9th and the 15th.  But later, I could overcome the pressure and anxiety of the first day.  We played very solid to the green.  We had very many good shots, and we complemented our games very well. 

Q.  Carlos, at this moment you are backing Esteban's career very much.  Do you think that in the future you might make a couple, like Eduardo Romero and Cabrera at this moment? 

CARLOS FRANCO:   Okay.  You know what I tried to do is the best for each player.  And Esteban has a good future, maybe one or two  -- but he's got a good future.  So what I try to do is to mentally support him, to work with him on what he can do better.  And that's what we try to do with kids who are starting. 

Q.  Playing with Ireland today, how did that affect your game, because they were 6-under, and did that encourage you to play better and to have some birdies in the back nine? 

CARLOS FRANCO:   Well, obviously, we are playing with a strong team.  It makes you feel more motivated.  Yesterday we played with a team that was quite quick, so it was difficult to get concentrated.  As we got with the team that we played with today, they played really well.  I know that Padraig right now is playing his best golf; it is his best moment.  But Esteban played well, and he hit very good shots, so I think we got some of them all right.  6-under is a good result. 

Q.  You said that he's a great player; that he has a great future, but I'm also interested in knowing if both of you are working on the physical aspects of the game? 

CARLOS FRANCO:   As far as I know, he understands the importance of the physical conditions in golf.  And he is a good student, he listens to me.  Actually, I am the only person who he listens to more than his father.  While I know that if he can work on every aspect of his game, he can get to a high level in golf. 

Q.  Carlos, congratulations to both of you.  Talk a little bit about what this would mean if you could win the World Cup and take it to Paraguay.  Golf is expanding everywhere in South America, and you are in the Paraguay Open next week.  If you were to bring the Cup home, what would this mean to Paraguay golf?   

CARLOS FRANCO:  Well, we have already thought about that, and we were talking about renting a plane to take all the people in Paraguay back home.  But what we really think is in case we win, it is going to be good for Paraguayan people, and it is going to be like a new birth for Paraguay golf. 

Q.  For both of you, I would like to know how do you find the course; and for you, Carlos, what difference do you find with the courses you usually play on the Tour?

ESTEBAN ISASI:  Well, what I can say about the course is that it is presented in excellent condition.  And I didn't expect less of this tour and of this tournament and of this course, because the people who look after this course are really  -- they really worry about the course, and they like to have it in perfect condition. Actually, I had expected it to be a little bit more difficult, to have higher rough and faster greens, but the course is in perfect condition. 

CARLOS FRANCO:   Well, this course is very similar to the ones we play on the Tour.  It is maybe a little bit shorter, but the rest of the conditions, the development of the course is exactly the same as what I'm used to. 

Q.  Well, people say that it is very important to have the guidance of a master, but later the disciple always beats the master.  Do you think that might be possible? 

ESTEBAN ISASI:  I think that what Carlos is giving me at a golf level is everything, because he is the only person in my country who can teach me everything about the American Tour, and that's where I want to play.  But I also have my expectations, I have my dreams, as many other golfers might have, to win the Masters, to play at St.   Andrews, and they don't necessarily mean beating my master, but having my own good career.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT