WGC EMC WORLD CUP
December 6, 2000
Carlos Franco
Esteban Isasi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 CARLOS FRANCO: First of all, I want to say that it is a pleasure to be here with you
and to have the possibility of playing with my partner. He is very young, but his golf is
really good and we may expect a surprise. About the course, it looks easy, but whenever
you have the card in your pocket, of course, it is easy. So we think there are going to be
a lot of surprises throughout the week.  
 ESTEBAN ISASI: First of all, thank you for the welcome. It's a pleasure to be here. I
am very happy being the partner of Carlos. He is a great player. About the course, I have
already played here, and I thought the course could be more difficult; that the rough
could be higher, but it is a difficult course, and we hope to play well.  
 
Q. You know the course very well, you were just about to make the cut on the PGA TOUR.
Do you think this is like living a dream for you? 
 
 ESTEBAN ISASI: About the dream, playing here, I wouldn't call it a dream, but it is my
first experience playing with a world-wide, world-level players. So I think it is a great
experience, and it is my first experience. About almost making the cut on the PGA TOUR, I
didn't play -- I had two or three mistakes in the second or third round, but I was there
and I played very well, so I did a good thing.  
 
Q. Many players such as Roberto De Vicenzo do consider you as favorites for this
competition, due to the international experience of Carlos and due to the experience of
Esteban on the course. How do you feel with Esteban and with the other teams? 
 
 CARLOS FRANCO: First of all, I think Roberto knows what he says. So while I want to
thank him for his comments, we are playing almost as local players here because we have
been here many times playing in South American tournaments. I think we have many chances
to win the tournament because it's not a stroke-play. It's a tournament that is played one
stroke at a time, so it is better for us.  
 ESTEBAN ISASI: First of all, I think that the words of Roberto De Vicenzo are
important, and he knows -- he's got international experience and knows what he's talking
about. Regarding us as a team, playing as a partner of Carlos is very good. He is very
consistent, and I think it is me who is going to make the difference. As Carlos said, this
format of game benefits our style, because you don't pay us -- it's not as expensive to
make a mistake. You don't make such a big mistake. And, well, that's it.  
 
Q. I know that your driving game is difficult and that you have had problems and that
you worked on it. And at the Presidents Cup this year, I saw you play, and you had
performed really well. And in this course, it is really important to hit it well. What
have you done to improve? 
 
 CARLOS FRANCO: Well, as you know I had a problem releasing, and I couldn't release
completely at the shot because I had pain. So what I had to do was to stop playing for a
while, and that was hard because I lost places in the ranking. But it finally paid off,
because I started to hit it harder as I want, and now I can fully release my hands and I
can play much better, but it was really hard to stop playing for a while.  
 
Q. I would like to know if you have completely recovered from your injury; and on the
other side, talking to Raul Fretes when he could not make the cut in the Argentine Open,
he said he did not feel comfortable in the wind. How will it affect you? 
 
 CARLOS FRANCO: Well, that's what we were talking about today, with my partner. Today
the course was easy because there was no wind. But if the wind starts to blow, without any
trees, it is going to turn the course into something very difficult. So what benefits me
is that I can hit the ball low, and I take the wind out of play. And that's what I will
try to help my partner learn how to hit it low and keep it low if there is wind.  
 
Q. Your opinion on the first five holes of the course and the green on the 17th. And if
there is no wind, how you are going to play tomorrow? 
 
 ESTEBAN ISASI: As regards the last five holes, you are almost always playing with the
water on the left side, except on the par 3. So I think it is difficult. But on the other
side, on the two par 5s, you can reach the green in three. So there are good things, too.
As regards the course, I really don't know, because in the four-balls, generally 61, 62,
63 wins when the teams play well. But in this case, I don't know what will happen. In the
case of the course, it is also very important the relationship that both players have and
how their games match up. Because in the case of the United States, I think they are a
very good team, they are very strong, but they match really well because Tiger will hit
shots. But then Tiger is not used to playing from the places he is going to be. So it
depends basically how the games of the two players match. As regards the 17th green, as I
know the course, it didn't get attention too much. It's true that it has got a lot of
movement and that's a high part, and there's a little stream, and then you have to be very
careful on where to put the second shot. But today, for example, with downwind, it was
easy to get it with two strokes into the green. So if you make three putts, they think
maybe it is a par. The problem comes when you've got -- when you are hitting into the
wind, and you might have to leave the third shot near the pin, and that's difficult to
handle. But without wind or downwind, I don't think it is going to present any problem.  
 
Q. Carlos, today when we asked Jose Maria Olazabal why there were not many leading
players in this tournament, he blames the date. He said that it wasn't a good date. But
you both made an effort to be here today. Would you say that is part of the spirit of
trying to be here for this tournament? 
 
 CARLOS FRANCO: I think there are basically two reasons. One because, as Jose Maria
said, the dates. But the other one, this is a World Cup, and it is important to play
there, and it is an honor to represent your country. And traveling here, even though I am
very tired, this is my third time representing here. In my country, it is an honor to be
here, and I am really happy doing this.  
 
Q. After today's practice round, do you have any idea how you are going to face the
foursome? Do you already have any strategy, or are you going to think about it tomorrow? 
 
 CARLOS FRANCO: I think that's a good question. I already had to play this format twice,
at the Presidents Cup. I am familiar with it. But I think we are going to make up our
minds an hour before the tournament. We are going to see how the wind blows. Because today
we would be analyzing some holes and say, "Okay, it gives up this type of wind. It is
good for you to play, but we need to be there." And we both are captains of our team.
We are going to make up our minds an hour before.  
 
Q. This question is connected with Tiger Woods and what influence do you think he is
going to have on the Argentine fans, because today I saw them trying to touch him, trying
to grab him. How do you think that relationship will go? 
 
 CARLOS FRANCO: I understand the fans, because if I see Clinton, I would like to touch
him. It's like natural; he's the President of the United States, and I want to be near him
and I want to touch him. But here, I think it's something that Tiger should do to be with
the public and to let them touch him and to be open to the Latin people so that they can
get a relationship with him. But it's like the American players, they have got to be
careful, because Tiger Woods doesn't like being touched and doesn't like being rubbed. But
I think that he should try to sell his image and try to be more -- try to be better to the
public, because as you know, he only signs like 20 autographs per day, and he doesn't like
being photographed. And the public should also respect that. 
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT