CAPITAL ONE ORANGE BOWL: FLORIDA STATE VS MICHIGAN
December 28, 2016
Dalvin Cook
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. A couple days away from the game, what do you need to do to get ready?
DALVIN COOK: We're just focusing on details.  We had a couple days off for break, so it's really just cleaning up details and just making sure we're all on one accord, so we go into the game and we've got the same game plan going into the game.
Q. As far as just kind of the last-minute preparations and things like that, how do you guys feel kind of going into it knowing this is the last game of the year, building something for next year?
DALVIN COOK: We always go into every game with the same mindset.  That's what we're doing for this game, treating it like it's another game.  We treat all our opponents the same way, no matter what team it is, and we're going to treat this game like it's another game, and we're going to treat it like another big game because everybody will come play us tough, and we know that.  We come in here like it's a big game and we know it's a big game, so we're going to prepare well, and we're going to be ready to play.
Q. As far as this game is concerned, it's another game where you as an older guy, it's another example for you to set for the younger guys.  Would you say this game is almost like a changing of the guard?
DALVIN COOK: They accepted that early in the season when we faced a couple of losses and we just kept battling back.  They know the roles they're going to have to play next year, and I believe it's starting right now.  It's showing in practice.  Deondre is taking that step, you've got a defensive guy like Tarvarus, offensive guys like Tate and all those guys, they're stepping up and being more vocal and just really playing more football and better football out there.
Q. Their defensive line has been pretty good against the rush the past couple years.  What are your impressions of Michigan's D-line?
DALVIN COOK: Athletic, physical.  They do a lot of things because they're so long and athletic to where they do a lot of twisting, and they really just get a lot of guys free, and that's their linebackers.  They do a great job of rushing the passer and getting into the backfield.  We've just got to control the line of scrimmage.
Q. Jabrill has always been the most athletic player.  Assuming he'll be tagged on to you.  What do you think about him?
DALVIN COOK: Great player, plays a lot of positions, well conditioned, a great athlete.  He treats every game like it's the same, which is a big game, just like we do.  He's a great player, and we know he's going to come to play in that game, so we've just got to match that intensity.
Q. Are you anticipating kind of a one-on-one versus him?  Have you thought about that?
DALVIN COOK: I doubt it'll be a one-on-one.  I'm a running back, I ain't a receiver.
Q. He's a linebacker, he'll cover running backs.
DALVIN COOK: I'm fine, but I'm not anticipating that.  I'm not going to get caught up in that.  I'm going to go out there and play my football game.
Q. (Inaudible.)
DALVIN COOK: It's been great being home, being by the water, being by the beach.  We don't get that in Tallahassee at all.  Just as well, just getting that sun and that breeze, it's been a great experience, and it's just been a blessed moment.
Q. Talk about playing in Miami.
DALVIN COOK: We call it Doak South.  That's Doak South.  You know, being in that stadium in front of my family, I always get that extra boost to go play, being in front of my family, being in front of my friends, being in my hometown.  There's no better feeling than that.
Q. Have you thought about your family members (inaudible).
DALVIN COOK: No, everybody already got their ticket early so I don't get caught up in that.  I just give my six tickets away, and I just go play football.
Q. (Inaudible.)
DALVIN COOK: Everybody is happy for me because they ain't really got to travel nowhere at all.  It's kind of like a burden off their shoulders for them to just stand out here and watch me play.  They're very happy for me, and they're going to be right there supporting.
Q. Have you accomplished everything you want to accomplish as far as being a player?
DALVIN COOK: Yeah.  You know, there's still stuff I've got to learn as a player on and off the field, really, so I'm progressing every day, on and off the field.  You know, I accomplished a lot of things on the field and off the field, so there's still stuff I can build on.
Q. (Inaudible.)
DALVIN COOK: Just creating that havoc.  That's coming in with the right mindset and doing everything right on and off the field, so when it comes game day or when it comes to off the field, the havoc rocks the surface, and it'll be clockwork for you.
Q. You're someone who knows the physical grind of a college football season.  We saw Deondre go through it this season.  Talk about how he works through it to be well for the upcoming game week after week.
DALVIN COOK: Just treating your body, taking care of your body.  Your body is your temple really, so you've got to take care of that first and you've got to take care of it like it's a precious car or whatever you cherish.  It's going to get you through these normal seasons.  You've got to lift during the week, you've got to go in and get treatment during the day, and you've just got to really take care of your body and hone in on that.  That's something I had to learn as I got older as a college player.  I think I've been doing a great job of that.
Q. Does that involve other things like changing your dietary habits and maybe resting a little bit more than you did in high school or is it really just the lifting and going to treatment?
DALVIN COOK: It's all that in one.  I'm still trying to get the eating habit down, but the sleeping part, I got that down.  I wasn't really a fan of that, but it actually enhances your performance way better as you're getting that sleep more.  I've been doing a great job of getting my sleep more, lifting, going in the training room.  Still getting the eating part down, but it do take a big part of your game.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT