BOSTON COLLEGE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 19, 2019
Jason Maitre
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Boston College - 45, North Carolina State - 24   
 Q.  Max has his helmet in their quarterback's chest, and the ball goes in the air. What are you thinking when you see that?  
JASON MAITRE: Just drive my receiver, and once I get there, get my eyes back, just have good eye discipline and not look back too early and make a play on the ball, to be honest.   
 Q.  And also, the same thing that I asked Tanner. This had to be, in some sense, a pride performance. Especially for you, like where do you think this kind of leaves you after watching the take-away a little bit?  
JASON MAITRE: For me personally?   
 Q.  Yeah.  
JASON MAITRE: Yeah, just preach on getting better every week. Especially me as being the young guy, I redshirted last year, just getting more feel for the game, more experience. The people around me are definitely helping me with that -- Tanner, Max, like the leaders of our defense obviously, Brandon Sebastian, Mehdi, and those guys are definitely helping me with that. It's just been easy with those guys around me.   
 Q.  Jason, on those two goal line stands, I think they were 0 for 6 passing. I just wanted you to comment on your red zone pass protection.  
JASON MAITRE: Our D-line, they follow all game. The reason I even had an interception -- if you all saw the play, the quarterback got beat up. Our D-line is awesome. The penetration they were creating today, they play relentless.   
 Q.  How important is a game like today when you have Clemson next week on the road primetime? Is it significant to have a game like this going into that type of environment knowing you can tell yourselves this is what we're capable of one week before?  
JASON MAITRE: Yes, definitely. I think we know what we're capable of, but like Tanner said, we've just got to stay consistent and just compete. It's all about competing. There's nothing this team can't do. I love my team. There's nothing we can't do. We've just got to compete.   
 Q.  Max has been making plays nonstop this year. What's he like as a teammate? What makes him so special for you personally?  
JASON MAITRE: Max, that's like my big brother. Well, he is my big brother. I look up to that kid. When I'm out there on the field with Max, it's just different. The energy is different. You don't want to let a guy like that down, you know what I mean?   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT