SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE CHAMPIONSHIP GAME: MISSOURI v AUBURN
December 2, 2013
Corey Grant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		  THE MODERATOR:   Corey, give us your thoughts on your team as you prepare to face Missouri. 
COREY GRANT:   It's going to be a great game, a big game that we're looking forward to.   All the guys are locked in and ready.   They have a great defense that I believe we'll be able to move the ball on, So it's going to be a great game to watch.

Q.   Can you talk about they have some really good defensive ends.   Do you think that's something that you all might be able to negate, their vertical push by what you do by getting out on the speed runs to the outside?   Is that something you think you can do to successfully negate those defensive ends? 
COREY GRANT:   Yes, sir.   They have some great defensive ends and they have a great D‑line.   I think that's a big strength of their defense.   With us running the ball, we'll find a way to move the ball and get out on the edge and run our zone reads and things like that.   So either way, our offense, we've gotten better each week throughout the season.   I believe we'll find a way.

Q.   Is there one strength?   It seems you had some huge runs up the middle against Alabama the other day.   You were getting to the outside a bit.   Do you guys do one thing better than the other, or do you think it's pretty balanced as far as the inside‑outside runs?
COREY GRANT:   Overall, I think it's pretty balanced.   Coach just tries to put us in situations where we can make plays, and he does a great job of that.   We just try to take advantage of those opportunities.   I think it's overall just balanced out.

Q.   Going back to Missouri's defensive line, what are some of the things that jump out at you when you look at them? 
COREY GRANT:   Their guys are real physical.   They're fast.   They look like they play with great technique and they're a very sound defensive line.   I think they're one of the best defensive lines that we'll go against this year.   You know, that is one key we'll have to focus on this week, because that's going to be a big deal.

Q.   Just this team in general to be in this situation, Missouri is kind of in the same position.   You guys didn't win a lot last year, is it kind of interest to go see you two in this title game considering what happened last season to both of you? 
COREY GRANT:   Yes, sir.   Like you said, coming off last year we had a terrible season, and they didn't have a great one also.   Just to see us in this position and see them, it's kind of weird, but that's just how the SEC goes.   You never know from year to year who is going to be in the title game.

Q.   I wanted to ask you about Jay and the role he has in this offense?   How significant is he in regards to what you guys do as an offense? 
COREY GRANT:   Jay is a big part of our offense.   He's a guy that doesn't get the ball much.   He never gets a lot of the praise.   But if he would sit down in the film room and watch what he does, you'd be amazed of the different plays that we've run that Jay was a big part of.   Jay had key blocks on, so he's a big part of our offense.   Without him, we'd be missing a lot.

Q.   To follow up on what was asked earlier about Missouri's defense.   In terms of what you guys do, is this a good match‑up for you or better match‑up for them in regards to what you do offensively? 
COREY GRANT:   Offensively, from what we do, I think it will work in our favor.   We're going to find a way to move the ball and watch film.   There is always a way that we're better to move the ball and let our offense do what we do.

Q.   How difficult do you think it's going to be to kind of come down from the emotional high that was in the Iron Bowl and know that you have to get ready for another game this week? 
COREY GRANT:   I don't think it will be that difficult.   That was a great win at the end, but we even have a bigger game coming up this week.   We're playing for a championship.   It will be hard to just forget about last week and put that behind us.   But Coach always talks about just work day‑by‑day and week‑by‑week, so we're going to push ahead and look for it on this week now and get ready for this game.

Q.   You having started your career at Alabama, was there anything extra for you in that win?   How did you view that? 
COREY GRANT:   I don't think it was anything extra.   It was just a great win, like you said, for me, starting my career there and transferring here to Auburn.   It was a great feeling for me.   I think maybe it could have meant a little bit more to some of my teammates. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT