ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS LADIES SCOTTISH OPEN
August 13, 2020
Sandra Gal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. It's been a while since we've seen you out on Tour.  How does it feel to be back?
SANDRA GAL:   It's so nice.  I was really happy that once I got here Monday night on the course, I really felt happy that I could play again and it's been a year since I played competitively.  So I really enjoyed it.  It was so nice to be out on this course.  It's a beautiful course here.  We're so lucky with the weather, a little delayed.  I feel really grateful that we can play.
Q. I know last year you made the choice to kind of take a break from golf, reset mentally and physically, and what led to that decision and for you, how have you felt since making that decision?
SANDRA GAL:   It was health-related, as well.  I was very tired and I need to figure that out and I did.  I think I healed during last year, and then this year wanted to tee it up in March, but obviously we couldn't.  I think it was a really good decision.  I think it's a bit unusual as a pro golfer to take such a long time off.  We don't do it unless we are forced to, right and I think I did so many different things in this off time that were not golf related and I really found a different perspective on my job and it really helps me I think right now to just appreciate it.
Q. What are some of the things that you dipped your hands into?
SANDRA GAL:   I played some guitar.  I met a lot of friends outside of golf.  I went on a retreat.  I spent time in Europe, a lot of time in Europe actually this year due to corona, but it was beautiful.  I did a lot of things off the course but also prepared mentally the last few months.
Q. When you got to the first tee today, your first competitive round in a long time were there any nerves?
SANDRA GAL:   Yes, yes, I was nervous for sure.  I was nervous but it kind of felt good in a way to know, like it was a familiar feeling, and you don't unlearn it to kind of deal with it I think, but I really, I was like, I don't know how today is going to go and how this week is going to go.
I had a bit of wrist issues the last couple months and I couldn't practise as much as I wanted to.  So it was nice to just play well today and ease into it.
Q. Were you able to catch any of the last two events in Toledo and figure out how the girls were doing, and did that bring any excitement for this week?
SANDRA GAL:   Yeah, I was in Europe, so with the time change it was difficult but I definitely was following how it was going.  It was good to see that they were out competing again.  It was nice to watch.
Q. You said you're very happy that you were able to come out here and put together a good round in the first round, even with a fog delay, how much does that do for your confidence heading into the rest of the week knowing that you were able to kind of weather the early morning conditions?
SANDRA GAL:   Yes, yes, I think it just maybe confirmed no matter what happens, that we're working on the right things mentally, physically and that, you know, most importantly, actually, I'm glad I enjoyed it out there, because I think I was -- yeah, I didn't know how it was going to be and I really enjoyed it.  I'm most kind of proud and excited about that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT