SOLHEIM CUP
September 19, 2015
Sandra Gal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Four now?
SANDRA GAL: Yeah, it's unbelievable.  We were trying to watch the score a little bit and I know a couple of matches turned around.  It's just unreal.  We're just so thrilled.  And I think that's our strength, the team competition.  Yeah, speechless.
Q. When you come down the 17th, something in the way Matthew, with her experience and her calm smile, that just makes everyone calm down?
SANDRA GAL: Yeah, exactly.  I think that's why we do very well together because she keeps me calm.  She's uncomplicated and very easy going and I'm the same way, I think.  So we really compliment each other.
Q. Considering you're playing on home soil, is this the best couple of days you've ever had?
SANDRA GAL: I think so, considering the crowds and the pressure that we're playing under, it's definitely been the best couple of days, yeah.
Q. Now getting some rest?
SANDRA GAL: Yeah, I think I really need some rest.  It's been a long run of holes.  So I'm looking forward to the rest and cheering on my girls.
Q. A great morning, are you pinching yourself?
SANDRA GAL: Yes, a little bit.  Catriona really helped me in the game today.  I got a little bit tired in the middle of the game and then came back, and she hit great shots and I happened to make the last putt.  Sometimes it's unreal.
Q. 17, what a reply?
SANDRA GAL: Catriona is just a star.  She is just so calm under pressure and made the putt on 15, I think.  So just good, good teamwork together.
Q. Yourself, as well.  Laura Davies said it's the best she's ever seen you play this week.  Is that something you agree with?
SANDRA GAL: Yeah, it definitely is up there with one of my best couple of days.  I think considering the circumstances, probably the best I've ever played.  Considering it's my home crowd and there's so many people out here.  Yeah, it's close.
Q. Phenomenal match.  How does it feel to get a point for your team?
SANDRA GAL: Unbelievable.  Unbelievable in front of the home crowd.  They've been so supportive, cheering us on so much.  I just don't have even words for that.
Q. You seem so comfortable together.  You've obviously won many times before.  What makes the partnership so special?
SANDRA GAL: I think she just -- she's so laid back.  And we play as one.  It doesn't matter if someone misses a shot, we just move on.  We don't say sorry, just keep on going.  And I think we compliment each other.  She's a little bit more relaxed, I'm a little bit more tense, and it goes well.
Q. You were in control of your game today and so far this week.  Is it just being in Germany, at home, or what's been so special?
SANDRA GAL: Yeah, I think this one has been coming along the last couple of weeks, actually.  And then I think the little edge is definitely the people that support us out here and give us that extra special energy.
Q. Could you just describe what it's been like to play in front of these huge crowds?
SANDRA GAL: It's hard to describe.  On 15, we were completely surrounded by crowds.  It's just so special, the energy in the air.  You just feed off it, literally.  I think they make us hit the shots.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT