CAMBIA PORTLAND CLASSIC
August 15, 2015
Sandra Gal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. What went well for you today?  
SANDRA GAL: I think I had a few really good approaches to the greens, so I hit it close a few times, and I don't think I made a lot of really long putts, so just hitting it close and making what I had to.   
   
 Q. A couple years ago you shot, I think, back‑to‑back 66s here. Is that the kind of thing you might have to do again this weekend to come away with this tournament?  
SANDRA GAL: Yeah, I think so. I feel like it's pretty close at the top, and one good round isn't going to do it on the weekend. I would probably need another low one tomorrow. But looking at the leaderboard, Brooke Henderson is doing really well after nine, so I'll probably have to do some catch‑up.  
   
 Q. Big Solheim Cup year, crunch time right now. How much is that on your mind?  
SANDRA GAL: Yeah, it's been on my mind all year long and I've been getting a lot of questions about it, and I'm really close to qualifying I would say right now, and really looking forward to it. I think it's going to be very special playing in front of German crowds and having all my friends there and family. Yeah, super excited.  
   
 Q. Caroline is high up on the leaderboard right now, as well. Do you guys kind of go back? Did you play in Germany together at all?  
SANDRA GAL: Yeah, we actually come from the same golf club in Germany, so I've known her since she was about 14, and I've said that this year it would be really cool if we could play alternate‑shot in the Solheim Cup. Just being in front of German crowds it would be really special.  
   
 Q. Have you and her been in contention in the same tournament a lot?  
SANDRA GAL: No, we have not. It's really strange. Either one of us plays really well and the other one doesn't or the other way around. I was looking at the leaderboard thinking, hmm, this could be fun if we could play in the last round together.  
   
 Q. In terms of the World Ranking and getting into the Solheim Cup, do you know what your status is, the number is that you have to reach or anything like that?  
SANDRA GAL: For the Solheim Cup?   
   
 Q. Yeah.   
SANDRA GAL: I think I'm fine. I think I'm like in 6th or 7th position or something like that, so I should be okay.   
   
 Q. You had the low round of the day going so far today, 7‑under. You had to be having a lot of fun out there.   
SANDRA GAL: Yeah, I did. I just had‑‑ I did have a lot of fun. I hit a lot of good approaches, so I didn't even have to make very long putts, which was really nice, and just felt pretty comfortable out there today. It's a beautiful golf course, beautiful weather, so you can't ask for more.  
   
 Q. How does it feel to get a round like this under your belt heading into the Solheim Cup in just a couple weeks?  
SANDRA GAL: Yeah, it feels really good. The last few weeks were a little bit stressful for me. I was flying back and forth to Europe and the States and my game wasn't as sharp, so I worked hard on it last week, and it's nice to see some results. Obviously we're still a few weeks out for the Solheim Cup, but it's definitely been on my mind the entire year.  
   
 Q. You're just a few strokes back of the lead. What do you think you'll need to do on Sunday to kind of close that gap?  
SANDRA GAL: Yeah, this golf course is very scorable if the conditions stay the same, so it doesn't just take one low round. You really have to have another low one tomorrow. You can't really do anything else than just go out and hit one shot at a time again tomorrow.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT