KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 14, 2015
Sandra Gal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  What was the key to your great round today?  SANDRA GAL: That's a good question.  I think that I worked on my ball-striking the last couple days, because it really wasn't that good.  So I was spending some time on the range yesterday.  But most importantly, mentally, I just really stayed in the present and just really tried to give the best on every single shot and don't get ahead of myself.   Q.  Was there a moment where you kind of felt it all click and you kind of knew you had it going?  SANDRA GAL: Yeah, I started off birdie, birdie.  So I knew putts are rolling nicely.  Then I had a couple tough holes.  But I think I just kept with the flow.  Like I kept the momentum going.  I didn't think about it.  I just moved forward and looked forward to the next shot.   Q.  When you get off to such a hot start, does that kind of creep into your mind, that it might be one of those days where you can go low?  SANDRA GAL: Yeah, I started the day with that mind-set.  It doesn't just come about.  I wanted to have a low round today.  But in golf, you want something, it doesn't always happen.  So you have to really set a mind-set and then work really hard to stay in the present.   Q.  Do you feel like how the course was set up today that a 7-under was out there?  SANDRA GAL: Yeah, I didn't look at the pin positions in advance, but I knew that you could definitely shoot a low score out there.  The greens were not too crazy firm, so you could hold the pins.  You just need to hit the fairways, which I did today.   Q.  And then finally, what are your impressions on this whole week overall and the first year KPMG and The PGA of America getting involved with this event?  SANDRA GAL: I am just very impressed by what KPMG did.  It really stepped up as one of our majors, stepped up as a great major, one that's very memorable and I think prestigious in the future, as well.  I think it certainly helps playing an amazing course, but I think them as a sponsor, just we really benefit from that.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT