JTBC FOUNDERS CUP
March 20, 2015
Sandra Gal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   I know you started something this week with walk with Sandra with Girls Golf.   Can you tell us about that and how it came to be?
SANDRA GAL:   I just had my time off in December and I was just thinking about Lou I can just give back to whatever I do with my job.   I came up with this idea, and I created the Walk Inside With Sandra inside the ropes.   So little girls enter a contest and they write me a letter and they paint some art, and then one of them gets picked by the coach of the girls, the local Girls Golf program. 
Then they get to walk with me 18 holes, and just chat with me and get a firsthand experience what it is like to be on the fairway at an LPGA event.   I had such a good time.   I had a really, really good time because they were very interested, had lots of questions, and they were just so excited to be there.   It was so infectious even for me, motivational for myself just to be there and talk to them a little bit about what we do.

Q.   How do you decide on your winner?   What does it take to impress Sandra gal and walk inside the ropes?
SANDRA GAL:   They all kind of write about the five e's, that's the core concept of the Girls Golf.   To be honest right now, there has not been that many contestants.   It might grow with time, so maybe just say whoever is here, just come with me.   I think it's girls that have a passion for golf but passion outside of golf, kind of the way I grew up.   I had lots of other hobbies:   I played an instrument, and art‑‑ art is close to my heart.   A lot are involved with art, and it is nice to see they have earth interests and are so well rounded.

Q.   Your play this week, 6‑under for the tournament, what's been the key to your success?
SANDRA GAL:   I think I've been really solid tee‑to‑green.   So yeah, nothing too spectacular.   I had an eagle yesterday in my first round.   That kind of helps.   The course is very scorable.   You're going to see low rounds so still got to catch up a little bit. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT