HONDA LPGA THAILAND
February 28, 2015
Sandra Gal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   A very good back nine indeed.   I believe you were 3‑under for the last five.  
SANDRA GAL:   Yeah, I think just you mentioned that to me.   I didn't realize.   I was kind of in the zone and just really playing one shot at time.   It was good to finish strong in this humidity and this hot weather where it's really tough to stay focuses and fresh, especially during the end of the round.  
   
 Q.   There was some respite, though.   There was a bit of breeze out here this afternoon.   Quite welcome I imagine.  
SANDRA GAL:   Yeah, the breeze was wonderful.   And also some of the clouds.   We love the clouds here.  
   
 Q.   Played very well, particularly on the last hole, getting up and down from a birdie.   Was a difficult hole location?  
SANDRA GAL:   Yeah, it is one of the toughest out on that green.   I really tried to get myself a good number with the second shot so I wouldn't have too much spin on the ball.  
Yeah, it worked out well, so I was happy.  
   
 Q.   You've given yourself some very good chances over the last few tournaments, getting yourself into contention and knocking on the door.   It's all starting to fit into place.  
SANDRA GAL:   Yeah, that was the goal at the beginning of the season, to be in contention and have a chance to win on Sunday.   I just need to relax and kind of do the same thing I did the last few days.   I think the more chances I'll have the better I'll do.  
Tomorrow I just have to go out, and, like I said, just be relaxed and enjoy the moment.  
   
 Q.   Have you brought the paint brushes along for this tournament?  
SANDRA GAL:   What a question.   Of course I have.  
   
 Q.   What's the work of art at the moment?   Is there a masterpiece in the making?  
SANDRA GAL:   There is.   It's a bit Picasso‑ish, a bit of an abstract face I'm doing.   So let's see what comes out today.  
   
 Q.   What worked for you out there today?  
SANDRA GAL:   I think I was very patient, because I had a good start and was a little shaky in the middle there.   There was a lot of very tough pins today I thought.   They were all tucked in the corner.   I fought a little bit being too aggressive sometimes, and I kind of wheeled back and said, Okay, I need to be more middle of the green.  
So just staying patient.   Just at the end I got to knock a couple putts in.  
   
 Q.   You say the wind was a welcome relief, but for other people they say it made the course trickier.  
SANDRA GAL:   Yeah, but I think we had some wind the last couple days as well.   I think that's what make this course tricky is the wind.   Yeah, you definitely got to hit some different shots out there for that.  
   
 Q.   Second at the moment, a couple shots behind Stacy Lewis with a title in sight tomorrow.   Will you do anything different tomorrow?  
SANDRA GAL:   No, nothing different.   I think I need focus less on winning and more on the process.   That's what I have been doing up until now.   I just need to continue that.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT