CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 20, 2014
Sandra Gal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Another good round out of you today.   
SANDRA GAL:   Yeah, thanks.   
   
 Q.   How did you get going?   You going pretty good in Asia there, and it seems like you've been able to continue that momentum.   
SANDRA GAL:   Yeah, no, Asia was good.   I felt like I was playing really solid.   Just wasn't really able to roll a lot of putts in.  
I think I worked really hard on it last week, and that's been finally coming together.  
So today I think that was the key to the round.  
   
 Q.   Conditions are pretty tough out there today, aren't they?  
SANDRA GAL:   Yeah, I had to hit a lot of knock‑down shots.   Then again downwind you got to have really good control.  
So I hit lots of different types of shots today.   It was pretty crazy.   The difference between into and down was enormous.  
   
 Q.   Living in South Florida help you down here knowing how the weather is and what the courses are like?  
SANDRA GAL:   Yeah, absolutely.   I mean, took me a few years to get used to it.   I'm from Germany; we don't play these kind of courses.  
The course in Gainesville was very similar in the way that it plays firm and fast and windy.   
Yeah, definitely getting used to it over the years.  
   
 Q.   Got a number in mind as far as what it might take to win this thing?  
SANDRA GAL:   I haven't really thought about it.   My focus has been making a lot of birdies, because obviously you want to win this event.  
If I think about it, it just depends on the conditions.   It's blowing pretty hard.   I don't know what it's going to be the next few days.   It can play really low if the wind ‑‑  
   
 Q.   Right.   I think last year was 15.   
SANDRA GAL:   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   How much does the Wounded Warriors thing mean to you?   You got to meet any of those guys this week?   Kind of the finale of the week; heading into the weekend; 5,000 on the line.   You think about that at all?  
SANDRA GAL:   Yeah, it's funny, today I made eagle on the 17th where the Wounded Warrior was actually holding the flag.   So he was standing right behind me, and it was special to make that putt obviously for him and all the other Wounded Warriors out there.   
I think it's a great project and partnership that the LPGA has, so really proud to be part of that.  
   
 Q.   And how good is this the way the season is ending with the $1 million on the line, Vare Trophy up for debate at this point, Player of the Year still on the line, Money List still on the line.   Every thing is hanging in the balance this week.   
SANDRA GAL:   I think we've had such a tremendous year on the LPGA this year, and with this still being up for grabs and so much competition for all these trophies, yeah, I think it's really nice for the fans to be part of this.  
It has a special feel, this tournament.   CME does really, really good job putting this tournament together and just making it a really high‑end, very classy tournament.  
   
 Q.   What's the plan, strategy for tomorrow?   4‑under; you might be in the lead; might not at this point.   
SANDRA GAL:   Yeah, not going to change anything.   Just going to play solid and have good pace with your putts.   Hopefully hole a couple.   
I'm not going to change anything.  
   
 Q.   Was the eagle kind of what got you going there?  
SANDRA GAL:   I think so.   I felt like a few more birdies could have dropped up until that point, and when I made that that kind of gave me some momentum.  
   
 Q.   How far was that putt?  
SANDRA GAL:   I think it was maybe 12 feet.  
   
 Q.   What did you hit in there?  
SANDRA GAL:   7‑wood.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT