HONDA LPGA THAILAND
February 21, 2014
Sandra Gal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MODERATOR:   I would like to welcome in Sandra Gal.   Just shot 2‑under today; currently 5‑under after the second round here in Thailand; couple shots off the lead; tied for second.   
Talk about your round today on a day there weren't very many low scores.  
SANDRA GAL:   Yeah, I think I had a pretty smooth front nine.   I think I shot 3‑under I think on the front.   The back nine I thought it was going to keep going, but it played a little bit tougher and I missed a couple greens.   I made a lot of really good up and downs, which was the key to my round today.   
No, I'm pretty pleased with the day.  
MODERATOR:   Now, somewhat everybody says the greens have been more a little receptive, soft.   Had a little bit of rain early on in the day.   Talk about conditions and how that changed your game plan at all.   
SANDRA GAL:   I didn't change my game plan, but it was just playing longer.   So I think some of the pins were quite tough today tucked in corners where you usually you just would go for the middle of the green, and then on top of that you would have maybe one or two putts more because you just don't get any roll.  
So was that the challenge today.  
MODERATOR:   You played on this course a couple times.   How much does it suit your game?   How much did you look forward to playing this course this week?   
SANDRA GAL:   I was actually really looking forward to playing here because I think the experience over the years has helped me.   Also, I'm a little bit longer with my driver now than I have been in the past few years, so I feel like I can carry a lot of bunkers that I previously couldn't.  
That makes the course a lot easier.  
   
 Q.   A lot of par‑5s, people said going for it in two.   Do you think that creates more excitement?   Do you think that will bring a lot more exciting golf coming up for the weekend?  
SANDRA GAL:   Yeah, definitely.   You can always hear the roars from the spectators when someone has made a birdie or eagle somewhere.   
I think the par ‑5s are where you go low.  
MODERATOR:   Going into the weekend you're in great position.   Do you think there are numbers to be had out there?   You think people could go low Saturday, Sunday?   
SANDRA GAL:   Definitely.   I think there is definitely one hole where it will be able to drive to the green.   I think it's 16.   They're going to move it up one day, so I definitely think there is a low round out there.   
Depends a little bit on the conditions, but I feel like they got the tough pins out of the way today.   
MODERATOR:   Questions for Sandra?   
   
 Q.   Although the greens were perhaps more receptive today, a lot of players seem to have a difficult time reading the putts.   Did you find that?  
SANDRA GAL:   No, I did not.   Sorry.   I can't comment on that.   I like the greens.   
MODERATOR:   Everyone said the greens are in very, very good condition.  
SANDRA GAL:   They are phenomenal.   They run really true and they're fast.   I love them.  
MODERATOR:   Coming into this season, any definitive goals, anything you changed in your off‑season preparation?   Talk about your outlook on 2014.  
SANDRA GAL:   Yeah, I had a really good finish to last season.   Kind of wanted to take the momentum over to this season.   
It really helped that it was a short off‑season.   Took three weeks off and practiced for three weeks and we started with the Bahamas.   That was good for me.  
I didn't do any changes or anything.   Just worked really hard on wedges and short game.   
So goals for the season, I think just doing what I'm doing this week:   Being in good position for the weekend.   That's all I can ask for.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT