RICOH WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
August 2, 2018
Sandra Gal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You just reminded me, you've been in this position before at this golf course.  Great memories, then, returning here for the first time since 2009.
SANDRA GAL: Yes.  Yes.  Exactly, after the first round I led here with a 69 in 2009.  And it was my second year on tour, so I was a little surprised by that, but very excited.  I know the second day the winds were completely different.  It was quite challenging, but it's nice to be back here in the same position and on this beautiful golf course.
Q. And one better today with a 68.  What did you feel about yourself this time around a few years later in terms of the golf and what you were like here in 2009?
SANDRA GAL: I think now what I do is a little bit more conscious.  I kind of know my game better.  I'm hitting certain shots more on purpose.  I think before I was just very young and just kind of reacting to everything.  So I feel like a little bit more adult and a little bit more grown up maybe.
Q. Well, certainly focused.  Six birdies in a seven-hole stretch.  What was going through your mind at that point?  Were you aware of where you were on the leaderboard?
SANDRA GAL: I actually didn't know I had six birdies in seven holes until just now signing the score card.  I was just really in the flow.  It was raining quite a bit, so it really just kept me in the moment, just trying to hit one good shot after the other, and I kind of missed a couple of birdies in the beginning, and then I said, okay, let's just not break the move much and just trust my feel a little bit more and that really worked.
Q. And last thing, you've got a new coach you're working with now.  Of course we know Cameron McCormick well.  You've been with him for a couple of months.  What difference has he made to your game?
SANDRA GAL: Yeah.  Big difference.  Very thankful I met him and started working with him.  We just cleaned up my swing.  No big changes, but I think he gave me a little confidence with left-hand low putting and just kind of minor adjustments with that and then hitting consistently with my irons, with my tee shots.  And that also has given me a lot of confidence.
Q. Well, it worked well today.  Good playing.
SANDRA GAL: Yeah.  Thank you.
Q. Sandra, it wasn't particularly pleasant weather when you started this morning, but you certainly had a great run of birdies, particularly going through the turn.  It must be really nice to have a nice solid day particularly when it's the first day and you're out early.
SANDRA GAL: Yeah, absolutely.  Like you said, it looked fine when we teed off and then it started raining and it rained for probably a solid 10, 11 holes.  And I felt like it almost was to my advantage because I was a little bit more in the moment and just focusing one shot at a time.  And yeah, I had a good stretch of holes where I just, I think birdied six out of seven, so that was really fun.
Q. How has it been since they've changed the course a bit?  We've had such a dry summer here.  Has it changed much since the practice rounds?
SANDRA GAL: Actually, the practice rounds it was softer than today.  They've kind of made a point of firming up the course every single day, made the greens a little bit faster every single day.  So that did not affect it.  If anything, the ball almost was skidding a little bit on the greens.
Q. You have a nice rest now until your later tee off time tomorrow.  Is that something that you quite like having that early score up there and just watch and see what everyone does this afternoon?  Is there low scores out there, do you think, this afternoon?
SANDRA GAL: I think there is some low scores out there.  I think this course is scorable when you avoid the bunkers.  If it's not going to rain, I think there's some birdies out there, and I think I'm going to do some practice, and then like you said, I'm going to take a little nap and enjoy the rest of the afternoon.
Q. Now, you have the same coach as Jordan Spieth, who obviously lifted the Claret Jug just down the road from here at Birkdale last year.  Have you been given any particular advice from him at all coming into this sort of links part of the world?
SANDRA GAL: From Jordan or from Cameron?
Q. Either.
SANDRA GAL: Not from Jordan.  From Cameron, he was there last week, so we worked a lot on shots on this firm ground.  So that plays a little bit different, so I think hitting those little cuts is key for me just to trap the ball a little bit better and keeping that ball flight down.
Q. Well, the best of luck.
SANDRA GAL: Thank you.
Q. How would you describe your round out there today?
SANDRA GAL: Despite the rainy actually really enjoyed it, and I just kind of let it flow and really made sure I trusted my swing, which was key.  I know that sounds kind of cliché, but you just gotta really commit to your shots out there with all the bunkers, pick the line and hit it.
Q. You've been playing well this season, three Top 10s so far.  Do you feel like you've been trending towards a good round like this?
SANDRA GAL: Absolutely, yeah.  The last two, three months I have been going upwards, and I feel like I'm getting better every round.  You know, there's just little things I learned along the way since I started working with Cameron in May or late April.  And yeah, it's not a surprise.  It's a lot of hard work behind it.
Q. What kind of work did you and Cameron put in to preparing for this week?
SANDRA GAL: So he was out last week at the Scottish, and we adjusted to the firm ground for me, hitting little cuts off the slice is really key.  And also keeping my ball flight down a little bit.
Q. Great playing today.  Good luck the rest of the week.
SANDRA GAL: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT