DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
August 30, 2013
Sandra Gal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   12‑under, that's a great score.   How do you feel about it, after 36 holes?  
SANDRA GAL:   Yeah, it's been actually a lot of fun.   I think my game has been getting there the last month or two.   I just haven't been making any putts.   When that kind of comes together, plus then you hit a couple really close for a tap‑in, it just kind of all accumulates.   I've been kind of seeing that progress for a while.   It's just nice to see the scores come together.  
   
 Q.   It looks to me like maybe this might be a tournament you can win.   Are you starting to feel that way?  
SANDRA GAL:   Yeah, I mean, definitely.   You want to give yourself a chance to Sunday be in contention, which I set myself up for after two days, but still, it's just half of a tournament.   It seems like every day people are shooting low, so there's still lots of work to do.  
   
 Q.   Why did you decide to go to University of Florida?  
SANDRA GAL:   Well, it was warm there.   It's on the East Coast, so it's not too far away from Europe, and obviously it's warm there during the winter, so it's just great to practice all year long, and I just love the program.  
   
 Q.   Do you love golf as much as you do art and that kind of stuff?  
SANDRA GAL:   Well, it's very different.   Obviously golf is a sport, and art is just something I did as a hobby growing up.   I knew pretty much I'm not going to make my money with it, but there's many things I like doing.  
   
 Q.   Ballet another one?  
SANDRA GAL:   Ballet was when I was growing up, yep.   Dancing, I like to dance.   I like to sing.  
   
 Q.   Are you a good singer?  
SANDRA GAL:   I don't know, someone else could say.   We're not going to try right now.  
   
 Q.   Do you ever do karaoke?  
SANDRA GAL:   I've done that once probably.   Not much, yeah.   
   
 Q.   Does ballet transfer over into golf?   
SANDRA GAL:   I think it's really helped me growing up because you get a really good feel for your body and how you move in space, and great for balance, too.   Yeah, it's just like another sport growing up.  
   
 Q.   Are you done with ballet?   Is that it?  
SANDRA GAL:   Yeah, pretty much.   There's not much time to do that on a regular basis because we're traveling so much.   I think the time is gone.   I don't think I would enjoy it right now, but I did enjoy it growing up.  
   
 Q.   Where are you making your home now?  
SANDRA GAL:   Orlando.  
   
 Q.   Do you consider yourself almost an American now, or are you still‑‑  
SANDRA GAL:   No, you know, I'm European, obviously.   Those are my roots and I still can say that most of my life I grew up in Europe.   Maybe one day I won't be able to say that.   But I love living in the States.   This is where I make my money, this is where a lot of my friends are, and obviously the LPGA gives me great opportunity to play in the States and all over the world, so I don't really think I'm bound so much to one country, as in just kind of taking all the different cultures that we meet.  
   
 Q.   How many times have you played this tournament?  
SANDRA GAL:   This is probably my sixth time.  
   
 Q.   Do you like this event?  
SANDRA GAL:   Yeah, I love the event, yeah.  
   
 Q.   What do you like about it?  
SANDRA GAL:   Well, this course especially, I love the trees here.   They're just so amazing.   There's always something to look at during my shots.   Just love being out on the West Coast.   I don't know, something about it, great food, great weather, great people.  
   
 Q.   What do you think it's going to take to win score‑wise here?   
SANDRA GAL:   I haven't even thought about that.   Really I'm just trying to hit one shot at a time and make birdies.   Who knows, anyone can have a low one, like Suzann just shot 63.   Anything is possible the next two days.   It's going to be low, yeah, unless the wind changes or something.  
   
 Q.   Did you have any bogeys today?  
SANDRA GAL:   No.  
   
 Q.   So no bogeys in the tournament so far?  
SANDRA GAL:   I had a bogey yesterday.  
   
 Q.   This is your second 66.   Anything different about today's 66 from yesterday?   
SANDRA GAL:   Well, I didn't have a bogey today.   Other than that, not really.   I think I'm kind of doing the same things that I did yesterday, probably made birdies on different holes, but that's about it.  
   
 Q.   Was it more putting today than yesterday, or was it‑‑  
SANDRA GAL:   No, no, it's pretty much equaled out.   I hit a couple close and hit a couple medium range ones, so it just equals out.  
   
 Q.   Looks like you and Caroline Masson are tied for third.   Are you guys pretty close?  
SANDRA GAL:   Yeah, we're from the same golf club.   So we grew up playing on the girls' team, on the golf club, and then playing on the national team, we played world championships together, so it's nice having another German out here.   Yeah, she's been playing really good lately.  
   
 Q.   Are you a few years ahead of her?  
SANDRA GAL:   Yeah, I am.  
   
 Q.   So are you like an older sister?  
SANDRA GAL:   Kind of, yes.   But she knows what she's doing, she doesn't need advice.  
   
 Q.   Do you two hang out a lot on the road?  
SANDRA GAL:   We don't hang out that much, actually.   Kind of both do our own thing, but we'll always sit together, have lunch sometimes and just chat about life and stuff like that.   I told her from the beginning, just ask me whatever you want, I can help you out.   But she really is kind of older than her years, and she knows what she's doing, so she doesn't need much help.  
   
 Q.   How often in the season have you been in this position, in the second‑to‑last group in the third round?  
SANDRA GAL:   Well, I have been there a few times during my career, but not this year.   I did struggle a little bit this year at the beginning because I made some swing changes over the winter and they kind of dragged on for the first six months.   Like I said, just recently things have been coming together, and this is just basically a product of hard work the last few months.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT