U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 6, 2012
Sandra Gal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Very good follow‑up to your first round.   What's your thoughts?  
SANDRA GAL:   Yeah, thanks.   I think it played a little bit easier today.   I think there was a little more opportunities for birdies, but you know, I think I played pretty solid.   Still made a couple bogeys, but I think that's normal at a U.S. Open.   So yeah, I'm hanging in there.  
   
 Q.   When did you see the lightening up in the golf course?   Was it on a couple of tees or hole placements?  
SANDRA GAL:   I'd say hole placements, and a few tee boxes that were moved up.   You know, maybe I just hit a few better wedge shots than I did yesterday.   I don't know.   But I did think even looking at the scoreboard that there's a few more birdies out there than yesterday.  
   
 Q.   Did you play to your expectations or nearer?  
SANDRA GAL:   Yes, I did.   You know, I really didn't have that many expectations, to be honest with you.   I'm really taking it one shot at a time, and enjoying it out here.   And I think I did a good job at that.  
   
 Q.   Did you feel any difference in the crowd, any more people out there today?  
SANDRA GAL:   Yeah.   There were a few more people following us today, and you can see that it's getting more crowded as the afternoon comes.   And hopefully on the weekend we're going to have big crowds.  
   
 Q.   Obviously everybody refers to tomorrow as moving day, but you made a nice move today.   
SANDRA GAL:   Uh‑huh.  
   
 Q.   You're only one stroke off the lead.   What does that do to your game plan for tomorrow?  
SANDRA GAL:   You know, I don't think I'm going to change much.   I think there's a few holes you just gotta play smart, and when you have a wedge, you just gotta go for it.   I think I'm going to do the same thing tomorrow.  
Obviously I know they're going to have some interesting choices you can make, decisions, but yeah, I'm going to see when I'm there tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   You were born in Germany; correct?  
SANDRA GAL:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   Where do you live when you're not playing golf?  
SANDRA GAL:   I live in Orlando.  
   
 Q.   You do live in the States now?  
SANDRA GAL:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   Do you ever go back to Germany?  
SANDRA GAL:   Yeah, I do, probably two, three times a year.  
   
 Q.   What is the biggest difference about the different cultures and whatnot?  
SANDRA GAL:   Different cultures.   The food.   
   
 Q.   For better or worse?  
SANDRA GAL:   You know what, you can get anything you want in America, to be honest with you.   
No, but I think golf is not as big in Germany as it is here, but it's definitely growing, so I'm really happy to see that.   Other than that, you know, it's just a different ‑‑ I don't know, different mindset I think people have.   People here are a little more open.   Back there they're a little more reserved.  
   
 Q.   Big similarity here in Wisconsin and back in Germany.   There's a lot of beer drinkers here?  
SANDRA GAL:   Right.   (Laughs).   That could be.   Since I'm not, I can't really judge on that.   Sorry.   
   
 Q.   Sandra, you're one stroke off the lead, and your experience level at these championships is growing every year.   Do you feel more comfort being so close to the lead based on experience you've had, and is there anything that's happened lately that signal that you might be in this position?  
SANDRA GAL:   That I might be what?   
   
 Q.   That you might be in this position one stroke off the lead after two rounds?  
SANDRA GAL:   Yeah, recently after last month or so I've been a lot more comfortable with my game and I don't know, just being more comfortable out on the course.   It makes it easier to score, and obviously if you've plate a few opens what it feels like out there.   How to think your way around the golf course.   And you know, I still don't feel like a veteran.   Don't get me wrong.   But it definitely helps.   
   
 Q.   You've seen the course for two days.   Is this setup and the course what you feel a U. S. Open should be, does it define what a U. S. Open is.   We've heard from players numerous times this is the toughest setup you see all year.   
SANDRA GAL:   Yeah.   That's true.   What I've noticed obviously this week there's a lot of variety, where they can put the pins and how many tee boxes there are.   So there's really a lot of choices from the USGA to put some of the pins, and that makes it interesting every single hole.   You really gotta look at that yardage book well and make sure you're on the right side of the pin where you want to miss it.  
So yes, it does play like a true U. S. Open.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT