KIA CLASSIC
March 21, 2012
Sandra Gal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   We'd like to welcome the defending champion, Sandra Gal, to the Kia Classic, the third annual edition of the event here back at La Costa Resort and Spa.   Last year you won the event at a different location.   Tell us what it's like to come back here as defending champion at a new venue?   
SANDRA GAL:   It's a little special situation, isn't it?   It's the first time for me defending a title, so I really don't know what to expect.   But coming to a different course, I think it takes a bit of pressure off.   So it just kind of feels like another tournament that I've got to put my focus into.   
But it's close to my heart, so playing well here would mean a lot to me.  
THE MODERATOR:   Last year you won this event in March, and it was kind of a catalyst for your year.   You went on to become a member of the victorious European Solheim Cup team, and you had a really good year.   Can you talk about what this win at the Kia Classic did to your confidence and your overall game?   
SANDRA GAL:   It did a lot for me because I always wanted to win out here.   When you do it, you realize you can do it more often.   So that kind of gave me the momentum for the year, and I had a few good finishes.   Obviously, being on the Solheim Cup was an amazing experience.   Just to be with the best out there was absolutely great.   I finished the year off well with Titleholders too, so it was nice momentum.   
THE MODERATOR:   Take us through the state of your game, how you're feeling about your swing, mentally out there, all of that.   
SANDRA GAL:   Yeah, I'm getting there.   I had a pretty good week in Singapore.   I was very steady.   Last week I was striking it okay, not quite as well as I wanted to, but obviously I didn't score that well.   I made it to the weekend but didn't score that well.   
It's the week goes on this week, I'm hitting it better every day.   Today I was pretty happy with my game.   So I'm continuing to build on the positives.  
THE MODERATOR:   People see you as a golfer, but you have a lot of other talents.   Last night you showcased some of them for Golf Channel.   If you would, tell us about Sandra Gal off the course, your hobbies and all that stuff.  
SANDRA GAL:   As you might have heard, I like to paint.   I did that yesterday.   It's something that keeps my mind off golf.   It's a bit of my creative streak I've always had since I'm little.   I love to dance as well.   I don't get the opportunity much anymore because I'm busy traveling all over the world.   But growing up, I did ballet for 15 years, and I played violin.   I played in the orchestra actually too.   I love that.   
Yeah, I think just growing up with different activities made me more of a well‑rounded person with different interests.   I think that pays off now when you have a bit of a perspective on life.  
   
 Q.   I was out at the frozen Pacific Palms, but I got a great picture of you in the final round running over and hugging your mom for encouragement.   And I was just wondering, is she here?   
SANDRA GAL:   Yeah, she's here.   I was actually running over because she had to catch a flight when I was on 16, so I had to tell her goodbye in the middle of my final round.  
   
 Q.   I thought it was a poignant moment because of the fact that you came over and hugged her and went on to win.   
SANDRA GAL:   It was great.   It was great.   I kind of felt bad because I had to say bye in the middle of match play situation, and you didn't know what was going to happen.   But it was definitely, yeah, a good moment.  
   
 Q.   You still have your same caddie you had last year?   
SANDRA GAL:   I do, yes.  
   
 Q.   It seems like the LPGA is kind of on an upswing right now recently.   Why do you think that is?   And maybe for fans who might consider coming out this weekend for the first time, what makes an LPGA event maybe different from a PGA event or why is it so attractive to the fans maybe?   
SANDRA GAL:   It's because we're cool (laughing).  
   
 Q.   Other than that, that's obvious.   
SANDRA GAL:   No, I mean, I hear from a lot of people that we play Pro‑Ams with or even fans off the LPGA that they can relate to us.   We don't hit as far as the guys do with ridiculous numbers like 350, but we can hit it a good way out there.   
Some of the amateurs kind of relate to our swing, they relate to how far we hit it, and I think it's interesting for them to see how we play.   It's always good as a woman to kind of show off.   You can show off your game, and that's cool.   I think that's what they want to watch.  
   
 Q.   Can you also talk about the approachability of our players?   There is certainly a feeling that fans are able to get close to you.   
SANDRA GAL:   Definitely.   I think that's the edge that we have over the PGA TOUR.   I love watching the PGA TOUR, but our Tour, I think, like you said, we're so approachable.   You can just come up to us and talk about anything, ask us questions.   We'll stand there and sign autographs.   We'll explain to you a shot, anything, and I think that's something very special about our Tour.  
   
 Q.   Speaking of explaining shots, take me through 18 last year.   You were down.   You needed to make birdie to beat Rolex Rankings No. 2 Jiyai Shin who at the time was on the way to No. 1, and did you it.   83 yards with the wedge, couple feet, tap‑in birdie, three feet.   Take us through that hole and how often do you think about that?   
SANDRA GAL:   Yeah, I get reminded of it a lot, and that's great.   It's such a good memory.   It was a par‑5, so good chances were we were going to make birdie.   
She was first to hit, and she stuck it really close just from the crowd reaction.   So I really wanted to win that tournament, so I just thought I have to hole the shot.   All I could really remember is just focusing so hard on the pin and just making it.   Just never having a bad thought about that shot, and, yeah, I pulled it off.   
THE MODERATOR:   Well, welcome back as defending champion, and best of luck this week.  
SANDRA GAL:   Thank you so much.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT