CME GROUP TITLEHOLDERS
November 20, 2011
Sandra Gal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Did you know that was going to make the difference?  
 SANDRA GAL: You know, I had just kind of a slow start. I was kind of struggling the first nine, and I got kind of a little pissed off at myself to be honest with you, so I made a couple of good birdies, and I thought I had a good chance with the final three holes to make some more birdies, but that bogey cost me on the par-5. I was committing to every single shot there, just that putt downhill was very tricky, and I hit a good second putt, it just lipped out. There's nothing you can do. Hee Young played great, and she really deserves to win. I'm really happy for her.  
  
  Q. Hee Young had never won on the LPGA Tour before. How impressed were you with how she played during this final round and how she was able to maintain her composure?  
 SANDRA GAL: Yeah, she had great composure all day long. She's always smiling. I've played with her many times, and she's such a great competitor to play with because she's always happy and just plays her own game, and I think she really, really deserves it.  
  
  Q. Kind of tough to make up shots on this course when Hee Young isn't giving anything back to par?  
 SANDRA GAL: Yeah, probably, that's right. She didn't make any bogeys. Her short game was great, and she made some good birdies early on, and I think that kind of gave her the momentum for the round.  
  
  Q. What did you hit in for the third shot over the green on the par-5?  
 SANDRA GAL: A little wedge, but I thought it was into the wind, and it never touched the wind and just went right through. I hit a great shot. I was like, this is going to be really close, but it just went right through.  
  
  Q. Will this be a learning experience for you?  
 SANDRA GAL: Definitely. I won this year, and it's always great to be in the final round, and I think I hung in there really well today. Sometimes you're the winner, sometimes you're not. That's just how it goes.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT