CME GROUP TITLEHOLDERS
November 19, 2011
Sandra Gal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome our co-leader Sandra Gal into the interview room. Congratulations on a solid round today. You find yourself up there tied for the lead heading into the final round. Can you give me your thoughts on the day and what it's like to be in that lead again? 
 SANDRA GAL: I'm actually pretty drained right now. It was such a roller-coaster round, but it's all just good. I'm happy to be up there leading. It was tough out there for me today. You probably saw I had a good start and then just in the middle of the round I had a couple bad holes. But I'm really proud of myself how I pulled it together on the back nine. Sometimes you've just got to hang in there and fight it out, and it was one of those days.
 THE MODERATOR: Can you take me through that stretch where you started on 9 and kind of had a rough going a little bit but were able to pull it back together again? 
 SANDRA GAL: I hate to recall it again (laughing). 
 Well, I think 8 I was a little long of the pin and it was just so fast down there, and I made three putts.
 And then 9, I hit it in the water, made a really good shot in there. My ball was way above my feet with the wind off the right, hit it on the green but again, way faster than I thought, and I made three putts, so I had double bogey, 3-over in two holes.
 But I came back on 11, made a birdie, kind of settled down and just played solid from there.
 THE MODERATOR: Mentally how do you get yourself through those stretches, when you go 3-over through two holes and find yourself falling down? How do you pick yourself up? 
 SANDRA GAL: I talk to my caddie a lot, and I also just kind of -- you've got to go back to your inner belief, really. I know I'm a good golfer, and just got to pull yourself together and just dig deep. 

 Q. You stare down Jiyai to win at Kia earlier this year; you're probably going to have to stare down someone of equal mettle to win tomorrow. What do you take from Kia and the success there to win tomorrow?
 SANDRA GAL: Well, Kia proved that no matter who I'm playing, if I'm playing my best game or if I'm playing my good game, then I can beat them. However, this is a totally new tournament. Not all the tournaments are the same, so you've got to be in a similar and know what you're doing that gives you confidence, but you've still got to grind out every single shot. 

 Q. What do you think of the leaderboard?
 SANDRA GAL: I think it's pretty tight. I think a lot of good players up there, obviously. So you know, this golf course, as you probably saw, I'm sure this leaderboard was probably changing a lot the last couple hours, especially the last few holes. You never know what's going to happen, so it's nice to see that everyone is really close. Obviously I would love to have like a five-shot lead, but for the spectators I think it's great. 

 Q. How do you compare this course in difficulty to the courses you've played this season on Tour? 
 SANDRA GAL: Well, I'm a little bit biased because this is the course I practice on usually when I'm in Orlando. So I'm quite comfortable on it. But definitely it's never in this good of shape as it is now or in this tough of shape I would rather say. It's definitely one of the tougher courses, especially when the wind comes up. 

 Q. Going back to your mindset, given that you have won now on this Tour, how different will you feel do you think starting off tomorrow than if you had not already won a tournament? A lot of confidence? 
 SANDRA GAL: I'm going to be nervous. You know, I'm always nervous on the first tee, and I don't think that's ever going to change, and I think that's a good thing. 
 But I really just want to enjoy tomorrow. It's great to be in that position, have the chance to win. If you've done it before, I think it gives you more confidence in the back of your mind for sure.

 Q. On this course do you almost have to accept that you're going to have a bad two- or three-hole stretch and just have to fight your way back from it? 
 SANDRA GAL: I wouldn't say so. I think you've just got to accept that you're going to have a couple bad swings per round. You know, that's just normal. But I wouldn't expect to have a bad-hole stretch. I never do that. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much, and best of luck tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT