CME GROUP TITLEHOLDERS
November 18, 2011
Sandra Gal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome Sandra Gal into the interview room. Congratulations on another straight second round 69. Great finish there on the back. Can you take us through your round today and how you were able to handle those tough conditions out there today.   
 SANDRA GAL: Yeah, it was definitely a nice round, kind of had a slow start, probably got good use of the wind a little bit and I just made some putts on the back nine, played 4-under on the back, and yeah. I don't know really what to say. I made a really long putt on 16. Do you want me to go through the birdies?   
 THE MODERATOR: Yeah, you can go through the birdies.   
 SANDRA GAL: Well, I had a bogey on 6 so I was 1-over on the front.   
 Then made about a 10-footer on 10 for birdie.  
 14, I hit it pretty close, probably five, six feet, just had a lob wedge in.   
 16, I made a really long putt. It was one of those where you kind of have to lag it but kind of in the back of your head you're like, oh, it's pretty straight, I can actually make it. I hadn't made a long one for a while, so it was nice.   
 17 I hit a really good shot off the right, hit a 6-iron and hit it to about ten feet and made it.  
 But I think one of the keys to this golf course is if you have a bit of length that really helps. It's kind of strange far me to say, but I have been hitting my old driver from Callaway for four years, and I actually just switched two weeks ago to the RAZR Black, and I've really seen the difference in technology and I'm hitting it so much further, and I think it helps if you have a few lob wedges and sand wedges in rather than 9-irons.   
  
  Q. Can you just talk a little bit about the conditions out there today? How differently did the course play when the wind picked up and how much tougher does it get out there?  
 SANDRA GAL: Well, you just kind of have to think your way around a little more. There are a lot of pins that are tucked on different tiers, and with the wind you've just got to know where you want to miss it. You can be on the green but you can have no putt or a very, very difficult one. Hitting it to the right spots and thinking your way around the golf course smartly, that's the key, I think, today.   
  
  Q. Last night you were honored at the Rolex reception for becoming a Rolex first-time winner this year. How do you describe this year, and what is that experience like when you become a first-time winner and then to be recognized for it?  
 SANDRA GAL: Well, it was an incredible experience. I think the first time is the most difficult win, that's what people say. That's how I felt. I knew I could win out here, but I took a few years to do it and it felt like a dream come true when it happened. I'm very happy with this year, and the last few tournaments have really felt like a bonus, and I'm really enjoying it.   
  
  Q. How long was the putt at 16, the long one?   
 SANDRA GAL: I'd say it was probably 35, 40 feet.   
  
  Q. Were you paying attention to the leaderboard, and how drastically it was changing?   
 SANDRA GAL: Not so much, no. I was just trying to pay attention to my game. I did have a few glances up there, but I just kind of saw I was moving up a little bit, even on the front nine. I shot 1-over and I felt like I was moving up the leaderboard, kind of strange. But it just showed that it played tough out there.   
  
  Q. On your bio you list painting, dancing, violin and singing and hobbies. How accomplished are you at those? Is it really a hobby?  
 SANDRA GAL: Some of them I used to do. I played violin for ten years when I was growing up. I was pretty good at it. But once I moved to America I stopped. I wouldn't say I could play a nice piece in front of all of you now. But I do paint. I've been painting my entire life, and I still do it now. It's a great way for me to kind of chill out. I'm a very creative person, so I love colors, and anything I can do with that kind of relaxes me.  
 What else was there? I love to dance. I've danced my whole life. Put the music on and I start dancing.   
 And singing, I just did that once. I recorded one song. It's on my website. But it was more of a tryout. I could probably do more, but it's not my biggest talent, no.  
  
  Q. That creativity, do you take it to the golf course?  
 SANDRA GAL: Definitely. I have a lot of shots that I can hit. I like to curve the ball once in a while if a pin is tucked, and I do see a lot of different shots, especially around the greens. I'm a very visual person, so I think that helps.  
  
  Q. It also says that you've got an honors degree in advertising. If the commissioner asked you, what would be your recommendation for an ad campaign?  
 SANDRA GAL: An ad campaign? I think Commissioner Whan does a great job on our Tour, and I'm not the one to say that. But I'll think about it, and I'll tell you.   
  
  Q. It appears that most everyone was having difficulty getting comfortable out there in those winds with those tough greens, and you looked like you were as comfortable as anyone. Are you comfortable in the wind, or is it just your ball-striking is so sharp right now to help you be comfortable?   
 SANDRA GAL: Well, I wasn't that comfortable on the front nine. I don't know. Every day is different. You've just got to get in the zone of really focusing on your target. I think wind kind of creates that focus because everything is a little more difficult so you've got to pick smaller targets, and really have to commit to your shots. There's no bailouts. You really have to go for every single one of them. So I think that's what I did well as the round went on.   
  
  Q. Along that same line, with the wind and the volatility of the golf course combined, you can see anything can happen. Is two shots really nothing with two rounds to play?  
 SANDRA GAL: Yeah, it's nothing I would say. It depends on how the conditions are going to be the next couple days. But we're halfway through the tournament. I like seeing myself up there, but it obviously doesn't mean anything. There's a lot of golf to be played.   
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much, and best of luck this weekend.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT