CME GROUP TITLEHOLDERS
November 17, 2011
Sandra Gal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Can you take me through a great day, 3-under par? I know two bogeys, five birdies, kind of take me through the round and what was working well for you today. 
 SANDRA GAL: I actually had kind of a slow start. I think 1 is a very birdieable hole; 2, you kind of have to make birdie. I wasn't really close to making on either of those holes. I kind of hung in there the first few holes and then I made a nice longer putt, I think it was on 4 or 5, and that kind of got me going in the right direction. I made another one on 9, which was nice, because it was off the green, just a good shot in there but it was just a little long. And then I had a couple really close wedge shots, just tap-ins, so that always helps, don't have to work that hard. Unfortunately there was a couple bogeys in there. 
 But I'm happy with the round. I'm comfortable on this course, and three more days to go, so looking forward to it.

 Q. Is this a course you've played quite often? 
 SANDRA GAL: I do, yeah, yeah. There's a lot of guys that practice out here, a lot of mini-Tour players, so we always have so much matches out here. It's definitely playing totally different because the greens are way faster than we usually play out here. But it's nice to just sleep in your own bed. It doesn't feel like a tournament somehow. It does; obviously it's one of the best season-ending tournaments, but it's just very chilling if you can be in your own bed.

 Q. How have you felt about your game coming into this week? You had a great way of getting into this tournament with the win at Kia, but how have you been feeling lately?
 SANDRA GAL: Last week in Mexico I was hitting it really well, great ball-striking, but I just made a couple silly mistakes, so I'm really trying to just learn from that and do a little better job at course management, and I think that's helped for me. 

 Q. And with becoming a Rolex first-time winner this year, looking at the season overall since we are kind of at the end here, how do you assess the season and how exciting was it to get that first --
 SANDRA GAL: It was very exciting winning the first time. It's a big breakthrough when you really dream about something and then you do it. I'm very happy with my season. All those tournaments at the end, I feel like they're a big bonus for me, just really try and enjoy every second of it and just work on a few things that I want to get better at for next year. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT