AVNET LPGA CLASSIC
April 29, 2011
Sandra Gal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome Sandra Gal into the interview room. Congratulations on your 5-under round today. Just take me through what went well for you. I know you played well yesterday, but maybe didn't convert as many times. What was the difference today in the round?   
 SANDRA GAL: Well, I didn't start off that strong today. It was kind of slow start, but I just made a couple bogeys, 9, 10, and that was kind of like a turning point for me.   
 I kind of got down on myself a little bit. Then I was like okay, Let's just play one shot at a time and be patient. The birdies are going to come. They did, so I was happy about that.   
 MODERATOR: After getting that first career win at Kia, you've been playing well. You played well at Kraft and now been paying well here. What's been the difference for you after getting that first win?  
 SANDRA GAL: Um, you know, obviously I'm playing well. I'm just enjoying myself out there. I mean, I'm not doing anything really different. I've been playing solid since the end of last year.   
 Just winning, you know, I think you get more comfortable at the top. Being in the lead is something -- you know, you want to be there and feel comfortable there, so that's probably the difference now.  
 MODERATOR: Questions.   
  
  Q. A lot of the golfers talk about patience being very important out here. How difficult is it around here to actually bring that into play?  
 SANDRA GAL: Well, it all depends for me on the pin positions. I think there are few pins out there that you just can't go for, so that is where patience really comes into play.   
 You have to bail center of the green, make two putts, and hopefully roll it in. You can't just go for every pin out here.   
  
  Q. Did anything change for you after you won in terms of a lot more media exposure at Kraft, et cetera, in terms of sponsorships, Twitter, more people recognize you in Orlando?  
 SANDRA GAL: Yeah, it's been amazing. So many people come up to me and congratulate me. I just feel very thankful for that.   
 There is a lot media attention from Ge many. Other than that, Twitter followers, yeah, I think that one week I gained like 1,500, so it was kind of funny.   
 But other than that, nothing changed.   
  
  Q. How much did it mean to you to get the win and have the confidence that you had going out? You said you really are doing the same things, but is it a different mindset once you say, Okay, I can do it?   
 SANDRA GAL: I think there is. Once you've won, obviously you want to win again, so you've kind of got this mindset, I can do it.   
 On the other hand, I'm in the lead now, but I'm not going to have any expectations on me. There are so many good players out there. The good thing about winning was it's kind of a tough year to get in a lot of the events at the end of the year.  
 So by winning, I'm in all the tournaments. We have like 18 tournaments ahead of us. So it's just nice to be in all of them, to know you have a nice season ahead of you, you know, just playing one round at a time.   
  
  Q. What are your thoughts on Stacy's game and how she's been playing the last few weeks?  
 SANDRA GAL: Yeah, well obviously she has been playing great golf. Yesterday she was striking it beautifully; today I think her timing might have been a little bit off.  
 She's such a solid player. I love her putting stroke as well. She'll probably come back strong tomorrow.   
 MODERATOR: Thank you, Sandra.   
 SANDRA GAL: Thanks, guys.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT