KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 31, 2011
Sandra Gal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Sandra, thanks for coming in. Good round today 5-under 67. You're currently in the lead. Can you tell me a little bit about your round? 
 SANDRA GAL: Yes. Thanks, first of all. 
 It kind of went by really quickly today. I don't know why, but you know, I think at the beginning I struggled a little bit with my irons, just made a few up-and-downs that were good. You know, just happened to roll a few putts in and got more comfortable as the round went on. So I'm happy with the start.

 Q. You alluded to the up-and-downs. You had that really clutch par putt on 1 and then even the birdie on 2. That wasn't an easy putt, and then the chip-in on 4. So how did just hanging in and making those help you persevere for when the birdies came?
 SANDRA GAL: Yeah. It definitely helps. You know, it makes you more comfortable. If you know you miss the green, you can make up-and-down, or you know, I always focus on chipping it in from anywhere. So that definitely helps you to do that early in the round. 

 Q. What club did you use for the chip-in? Can you describe the shot you hit?
 SANDRA GAL: Yeah. I hit a 58-degree lob wedge, and there was a lot of break in it, so I kind of had to stop it quickly and kind of trickle it left-to-right. So yeah, it was just a little kind of small fluff shot.

 Q. And did you think it was going in when you hit it?
 SANDRA GAL: Yes.

 Q. And how are conditions? Can you compare this week to last week where you were bundled up in long shirts?
 SANDRA GAL: Yeah. Very, very different. It's quite hot out there, but we had an early start, which was nice. And then obviously the greens, you know, as the day went on, they went firmer and firmer. I had quite a few shots that actually went over the greens. So that's something to consider for tomorrow for sure.

 Q. How long was the hole-out there at 4? How long?
 SANDRA GAL: Maybe 15 yards. 

 Q. And do you feel like you just picked up where you left off on Sunday? Were you curious how you would respond after winning?
 SANDRA GAL: Yes and yes. 

 Q. What were you wondering about?
 SANDRA GAL: Obviously, you know, with your first win, you kind of still don't know what to expect coming into the next week, and you know, all the people that came to me and all the congrats from everyone, which I really appreciate them. 
 It was a lot, and so I probably didn't prepare as well as I would for a major championship normally. But I've played this course three years already -- or this is my third time. Sorry. So I just lost my track of thought. 

 Q. What were you wondering about?
 SANDRA GAL: Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. So I was a bit nervous, yes, coming out today, you know, just coming off your first win, but I did kind of feel like I picked up where I left off.

 Q. Sandra, you mentioned being a bit nervous today. You said yesterday you wanted to try and bring the same level of calmness to this week as you did last week. How successful do you think you were today in that regard?
 SANDRA GAL: You know, even Sunday I was nervous. I mean you know, obviously in a calm way, but you still have adrenaline up. And you know, I felt the same way today. So you know, I don't think it was much of a difference.

 Q. Did you learn anything about yourself as a competitor or about an inner confidence by winning finally last week?
 SANDRA GAL: Oh, sure I did. You know, playing against the No. 2 in the world or No. 1 in the world today, you know, there's just -- obviously I respect what they do. They've won many tournaments, and they're great players, but kind of knowing that I can beat them, I think that gives you a little extra confidence and kind of knowing that I can compete with them.

 Q. Do you feel like maybe in a different way you belong with them out on the course now, that you're not the 100th ranked player in the world, you're somebody to contend with? 
 SANDRA GAL: I still think I am an underdog. You know, they have won way more than I have, but I believe I can contend with them, yes. 

 Q. For those of us confused by the Solheim Cup situation, can you just go over, I saw in 2009 you said you were going to try to qualify for the European Tour so that you would be eligible, but I guess you still are not; right?
 SANDRA GAL: Yes. You have to be a member of the European Tour to play in the Solheim Cup. And the timing of Q-School has just been bad. So I didn't get the chance to do it. Obviously last year was my best year, so I didn't qualify for the Money List, and I'm not a member right now. 
 But there is ways to be a member if you show exceptional qualities, or you know, exceptional wins or whatever it is. But that's up to a committee of the LET. So it's not up to me. We'll see what happens.

 Q. If you were to win this week, with last week's win also factored in, do you think that would be enough to convince the committee that you belong?
 SANDRA GAL: That's a very tough question. You know, it's really not up to me and I have no experience with what their decision making is like, so I'm sorry. I can't answer.

 Q. How was it playing with Yani? It seems like you two were in a good rhythm with each other.
 SANDRA GAL: It was nice playing with her. You know, she's a great player, and you know, just watching her ball striking kind of, you know, I think improves your own ball striking. And you know, you kind of want to hit good shots. 
 And you know, we're both very competitive, and I played with her a couple rounds at the Tour Championship as well, and I've always enjoyed playing with her.

 Q. Just some follow-up on the Solheim Cup thing. Is there anything that you know if you do this, you will make the team, or is it all up in the air?
 SANDRA GAL: It's all up to them. There's nothing I can do. Play well. Play very well. 

 Q. Do you want to make the team?
 SANDRA GAL: Of course. Yeah. I'm all for it. I can't wait to be part of the team.

 Q. And when was the qualifying for the European Tour?
 SANDRA GAL: I believe it was during Tour Championship. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you.
 SANDRA GAL: Thanks. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT