KIA CLASSIC
March 26, 2011
Sandra Gal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Welcome back. Another good round today. Just some thoughts?   
 SANDRA GAL: Yeah, thank you. Yeah, I'm pretty happy with the way I played today. It was pretty steady. Wish a few more birdies had fallen. I just kept ramming the edges of the hole. But I'm not complaining. I'm happy.  
  
  Q. Talk about the amount of golf that you played today and how that affected you?   
 SANDRA GAL: Yeah, I know it was 27 holes. But to be honest with you, I thought it was to my advantage to come out early and get a feel for the course and the conditions. So I didn't quite mind it.  
 At the end I felt a little bit tired. I lost concentration on a couple of shots, but that happens when you play that much.  
  
  Q. How cold was it out there especially at the end? I saw girls putting mittens on and putting jackets on.   
 SANDRA GAL: Yeah, it was pretty cold, I would say, the last five or six holes. I didn't want to put another jacket on so I could swing. I already have four or five layers. But it's not too bad. I prefer that over really, really hot weather.  
  
  Q. Yesterday I think you said you didn't feel so well. Did you feel physically better today?   
 SANDRA GAL: A little bit, yeah. It's more affected my night sleep, but I'm feeling better today than yesterday. Thanks for asking.  
  
  Q. Tomorrow will be a little like match play, won't it, with you two?   
 SANDRA GAL: Yeah, I suppose so. I didn't look too much on the leaderboard. I don't know who is behind us. But I saw Na Yeon Choi played well, I think.   
 Yeah, it will be. Jiyai's playing really well. She's sticking every iron on the pin. So I think I'm just going to focus on my own game and play the course.  
  
  Q. When you saw that ball go in the water on 18, though, did that make you think you had a chance to pick up a shot?   
 SANDRA GAL: I told my caddie, wow, she's not a machine, you know. I thought she was (laughing). But, yeah, she hits it really straight.  
  
  Q. You had an injury last year a little bit that slowed you down. Can you refresh my memory what that was and how long you've been healthy?   
 SANDRA GAL: Okay. Yeah, I had a little bit of back problems, lower back problems, just muscular. Then my left wrist, my tendon was a bit inflamed starting in April or May of last year. Kind of flared up a little bit in the winter, but this is just precaution, yeah. It probably affected me the first half of last season.  
  
  Q. Did you go to many basketball games when you were at Florida, and did you know they lost today to Butler?   
 SANDRA GAL: Oh, no, I didn't know that. I went to a few, yeah. I definitely like basketball, and I'm always cheering for the Gators.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT