KIA CLASSIC
March 24, 2011
Sandra Gal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Welcome, good playing today.
 SANDRA GAL: Thank you. 
 THE MODERATOR: Just some thoughts on the round? 
 SANDRA GAL: Well, I'm happy with my result. I didn't really expect anything, just went out there and tried to hit fairways and greens, and I managed to do that. 
 I really liked the course in my practice round. I felt like it suited my game, and, yeah, so I enjoyed the round.
 THE MODERATOR: The four straight birdies, what happened there? Did you just start making some putts? 
 SANDRA GAL: Well, I went off to a good start, and then in the middle of the round I faltered a little bit. So I think I just got a little bit mad at myself making bogey on 10. 
 I was within 7 feet and made three-putt. So after that I tried to steady the ship a little bit. Once you can hit it close and roll the putts then the birdies are coming.

 Q. What about the course do you like? The length or the way it's set up or in particular what do you like about it? 
 SANDRA GAL: I really like that every hole is totally different. It feels like every hole is a new adventure. It's not kind of one of those courses where you don't remember number 6 or something. Although I don't want to call myself on that, but every hole is really different. Just a beautiful set up. Lots of ups and downs and hilly. You've got to hit the right tier, so I just enjoy that.

 Q. You said that the course suits your game. How so? 
 SANDRA GAL: I think it's a ball striker's course. You've got to hit the fairway and be precise with your yardages. So I think that's my game.

 Q. You wouldn't consider yourself a long hitter by any means? 
 SANDRA GAL: I do.

 Q. Because it's been playing into -- that sounds like that's another advantage that it's been playing for the long hitters?
 SANDRA GAL: Yes.

 Q. Do you think it will stay that way the rest of the week if the conditions dry out?
 SANDRA GAL: I heard we're supposed to have some more rain maybe overnight. So I suppose tomorrow could be wet too, but that's one day Tuesday that was sunny that really dried out the course for Wednesday. So I think it can dry out pretty quickly for the weekend.

 Q. So will you have the same advantage, do you think, if it does dry out or will it be not as much of an advantage? How do you think it will play out if it dries out? 
 SANDRA GAL: You still got to hit the fairway and the greens (laughing). It might be more favorable to the shorter hitters, definitely. But, you know, I don't think it's going to change much.

 Q. Nothing considerable?
 SANDRA GAL: No.

 Q. Had you heard anything about this course before arriving here, its reputation? 
 SANDRA GAL: No, I didn't.

 Q. When you had the stretch of four straight birdies, was there any shot that got you going? Can you just describe particular shots on those four holes that helped you? 
 SANDRA GAL: I think before I started the first one off of 4, I made like a 9-footer for par, so that I think kind of got me going. No magic, really. I just hit it close to the pin and focused on making the putt and that was really it.

 Q. Would you say you putted well today? 
 SANDRA GAL: Yes.

 Q. How did you feel about your game entering the week? And did you feel like a round like this was maybe in the works because you felt that positive or as positive as you thought? 
 SANDRA GAL: Yeah, I did. I felt really good coming into this week after the top 10 last week. So I really looked forward to coming here. I didn't really have any expectations. 
 Just my ball striking started coming around at the end of last week, so I thought a low round could be in for this week and we'll see how it goes from here. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT