NAVISTAR LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY MONACO R.V.
October 3, 2009
Sandra Gal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DANA GROSS-RHODE: Sandra, welcome into the interview room. You're at 13-under par and very close to the lead heading into the final round at the Navistar LPGA Classic. What are your thoughts, especially was it a confidence booster, the eagle on 6?   
 SANDRA GAL: Yeah, I think that definitely gave me some good momentum there, holing that putt. I think I was hitting it closer to the pin from then on. Actually, I had a really good warm-up session this morning, figured something out, and I was hitting my balls really well.   
 Definitely very, very pleased with my day today.  
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: Questions for Sandra.   
  
  Q. Just talk about your approach going into tomorrow.   
 SANDRA GAL: Okay. My approach, um, my approach is I can't control what the other players are doing tomorrow. Gonna play my game and just gonna have a lot of fun out there.   
  
  Q. Are there certain holes and areas of the course that set up well for your eyes? You've had three rounds in the 60s this week. It's actually a very good performance.   
 SANDRA GAL: Yeah, you know, I think it's a long-hitters course in general. You can cut a lot of corners, a lot of doglegs, so that definitely suits my eye.   
  
  Q. Have you been in this spot before, close, in contention going into a final round against other great players?  
 SANDRA GAL: No.  
  
  Q. That's obviously gonna be a lot of fun, right?  
 SANDRA GAL: Yeah, definitely. That's what we're here for. I'm very happy I get to experience this and see how it goes.  
  
  Q. What kind of mental preparation will you make for tomorrow? Anything different from today?  
 SANDRA GAL: No, not at all. Why would I do anything different? No, just gonna really enjoy myself out there.  
  
  Q. You had a tie for fifth, which was a career best earlier this year at Corning. Did you learn or draw anything from that that you can apply to this week or your season in general?  
 SANDRA GAL: I would say just my season in general. Putting myself more in contention, not on Sunday before, but other rounds throughout the tournament where I was leading.   
 The more it happens the more experience I gain, and I think that's great.   
  
  Q. The way this course sets up, do you need to get off to a fast start? What are the better birdie holes on the front or back nine? Where can you make a run here?  
 SANDRA GAL: I don't that think that really matters. You know, I played today on the back nine better the last two days. Today I played well on the front nine as well.   
 Doesn't matter if I don't come off to a fast start, which I didn't for the first day, for example. I'm patient and it's just gonna come to me hopefully.   
 So whichever way it is I can't control it. Just gonna play my game.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT