P&G BEAUTY NW ARKANSAS CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY JOHN Q. HAMMONS
September 11, 2009
Sandra Gal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JASON TAYLOR: Do you want to do your scorecard?   
 SANDRA GAL: Yes.  
 JASON TAYLOR: All right. First birdie.   
 SANDRA GAL: Yeah. I hit it to about 10, 12 feet with a lob wedge, made the putt. No. 2, I hit a 50-degree wedge and hit it to about 15 feet, made the putt.   
 No. 3, I hit a little 8-iron, and I think it was like 20 feet and made the putt.  
 JASON TAYLOR: Okay. And what happened on No. 4?   
 SANDRA GAL: No. 4 I hit it in one bunker off the tee and another bunker in front of the green, hit it out of there. And then I had like eight feet left and misread it a little bit.   
 JASON TAYLOR: No. 7?   
 SANDRA GAL: No. 7. No. 7. No. 7. Oh, par-5. I hit a 50-degree wedge to about 18 feet and made the putt.   
 JASON TAYLOR: 12?   
 SANDRA GAL: 12. I hit a little 7-iron to 10 feet, made the putt.   
 JASON TAYLOR: And 15?   
 SANDRA GAL: 15. Oh, par-3. I hit a little 8-iron to about 25 feet, made the putt.   
 JASON TAYLOR: And then a good finish on 18.   
 SANDRA GAL: Yeah. I hit a 4-iron. I hit it to about 15 feet, made it.  
 JASON TAYLOR: All right. Well, you're our new leader at 7-under with that awesome finish with the eagle on 18. Can you just talk about how the day went for you?   
 SANDRA GAL: It was just kind of a very smooth day. I was hitting lots of fairways, lots of greens and had a good roll on my putts. That's really what made the difference, I think.  
 JASON TAYLOR: Questions?   
  
  Q. Your putts that you made weren't all real little putts, so why do you think you had the putter going so much today?  
 SANDRA GAL: You know, I've been aiming it a little to the left, and I've been working on aiming it more on line. And my caddie was checking my line a little better, so I just feel I'm a little more confident over my putts because I know I'm starting them where I want to without compensating.   
  
  Q. How much of a confidence boost is that for you and how much did it get you going that you started so strongly today?  
 SANDRA GAL: It's definitely, you know, it's a good confidence boost. You know, you can go low on this course, and there's a lot of golf to play, but yeah, I feel good.   
  
  Q. Looking forward to tomorrow, you've had a few tournaments this year where you've had really low scores in first rounds.   
 SANDRA GAL: Yes.   
  
  Q. And then bounced back with tough ones in the second round.   
 SANDRA GAL: Yes.   
  
  Q. Have you thought about that? Have you been able to kind of reflect on that and why you think that maybe is?  
 SANDRA GAL: Yeah. I've thought about that, and I think it's just staying really in the present and staying aggressive with your game, not thinking what happened yesterday.   
 It happens to a lot of players when they shoot a low score and next day it's just not going that well. I think really it's just forget yesterday and then it's a new day. It's like the first day again tomorrow, and that's what I gotta do tomorrow.  
  
  Q. What was the yardage on the 4-iron on 18?  
 SANDRA GAL: It was 188 front and 206 to the pin.   
  
  Q. Was that just a shot you were standing over and you were really confident and the yardage and how it looked and everything?  
 SANDRA GAL: No. (Laughs). It -- you know, I knew I could hit it to that bank and it would kind of skip to the hole, and I've been hitting my irons pretty good. My caddie backed me off there because I was aiming too far right, and then I had to go back again, but I just went after it and it was a good shot.   
  
  Q. Yeah, it looked like you were standing over that approach for a while. Is that unusual for you? Is that probably the longest you stood over a shot?  
 SANDRA GAL: I had backed off of it because I was aiming wrong. I was trying to -- same thing with my -- actually different with my long irons, but I tend to aim too far right, so I was aiming way right. My caddie was trying to get me more left, and it worked.   
  
  Q. Did you know where you stood in the leaderboard as you got to the 18th tee and then from the fairway as well?  
 SANDRA GAL: Actually I did. There's so many leaderboards, even if you try not to look at them, they're like in your face. So I did, and I was like, okay, let's try and get the lead.   
  
  Q. Did you try to hit a little something extra off the tee there? Obviously hit a really good drive to set up that.   
 SANDRA GAL: No, I wasn't. I learned my lesson last week. I can't try and hit my drives really hard. If I hit them solid, they go a long way. So that's all I was trying to do.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about the golf culture in Germany? I was just doing some reading just right now about that. You have to apply for a license and take a bunch of tests. Is that right? Did I read right about that?   
 SANDRA GAL: No, not really. You have to take a little test so you can play on every course you want.   
 It's Platzreife. So it's basically they want to see if you know the etiquette and if you can hit the ball from A to B, and then you get that. And then from there you can start to handicap.  
  
  Q. But in the country are there lots of golf courses to play, like public courses to play?  
 SANDRA GAL: Yeah. There are tons of courses. It's not as popular as it is in the U.S., but it's growing every year and there's more young kids playing.   
 So it's still not a mainstream sport like it is here. I mean, I don't know if it's a mainstream sport here, but it's very popular, so not quite there yet, but we're getting there.  
  
  Q. Was that your only sport or did you play any soccer or anything growing up?  
 SANDRA GAL: No. I didn't play any soccer. I played a little bit of tennis, but not much, and I was doing ballet for like 15 years.   
  
  Q. Who was your favorite golfer growing up?  
 SANDRA GAL: My favorite golfer growing up? Adam Scott. (Laughs). Sorry.   
  
  Q. Why Adam Scott?   
 SANDRA GAL: You really want to ask that question? (Laughs).  
  
  Q. You don't have to tell me.   
 SANDRA GAL: No. I just think he's really handsome.   
  
  Q. Sorry I didn't check this earlier, but have you played this tournament before?  
 SANDRA GAL: Yes, I did last year.   
  
  Q. What do you think of the course changes, and how did that affect your game and how do you kind of see yourself adjusting to it?  
 SANDRA GAL: I like the course a lot better this year. I think it's just been more groomed and more solid course off the changes they made.   
 I was a little -- a few holes played a little weird on Tuesday where it was very hard and the balls were just bouncing, but since it rained a little bit, you know, it's more playable. And you know, I like it. It fits to the overall design.   
  
  Q. Was it nice to get a round in here without rain, though, today? This is one of the few rounds the tournament has known where they haven't had major rain problems.   
 SANDRA GAL: Absolutely. It was definitely wonderful weather today, and I don't know what the weather forecast is for tomorrow.   
 JASON TAYLOR: I think it's going to be kind of iffy.  
 SANDRA GAL: Iffy.   
  
  Q. It's probably going to rain.  
 SANDRA GAL: So that's one thing I was trying to do today, I was like, awe, the weather shouldn't be that good on the weekend. I was trying to get something in today.  
  
  Q. Was the golf course drying out as the day went on? Seemed to be a little more dry out there?  
 SANDRA GAL: I didn't notice a difference.   
 JASON TAYLOR: All right.   
 SANDRA GAL: All right. Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT