LPGA CORNING CLASSIC
May 22, 2009
Sandra Gal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MIKE SCANLAN: All right, Sandra. Nice round. You're 10-under par, four shots back from the lead right now. 69 on the day. If you would, just talk about your day and how it went for you.
 SANDRA GAL: I thought I had a slow start. I had a few wedges in the beginning and I just didn't get close. It was just early in the morning and they were spinning back more than I wanted to.
 Then I made a few nice putts. I just wish I had hit a few shots closer to the hole like yesterday. So just kind of kept it together, but yeah, I'll take it. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: Questions? 

 Q. It looks like other than the three-putt from 18, it sounds like your putts weren't the gimme types, that you were making some difficult putts. 
 SANDRA GAL: Yeah, today, yeah. Yesterday I hit my wedges close, so I didn't have long putts. Today I just had to make two long ones.

 Q. How is the course playing? You got to play in the morning where it maybe won't be quite as dry as this afternoon. Again, you had to face those problems yesterday. Was it easier or are the greens still pretty firm? 
 SANDRA GAL: No, the greens are not firm. I just thought that the pins were a little harder than yesterday. Other than that, it's still pretty good.

 Q. So at this point, your mindset, you know now you're in contention, regardless of how people do today. Is it your a matter now of knowing what you've gotta do on this course as far as where to place your shots and stuff to at least avoid disaster and continue to stay under par, because it looks like maybe even 20-under par may not be enough to win this tournament. 
 SANDRA GAL: Right. You know, I don't think it matters, you know. Obviously it's great to be in contention. It feels great, but I'm going to stick to my strategy, which is really aggressive, and I'm not going to move from that. 
 You know, that's the way I got here, so I'm not going to change it for the weekend. I'm not going to try to avoid disaster. I'm just going to go for it.

 Q. Is there something that's allowing players with relatively little experience here to post such good scores?
 SANDRA GAL: I don't think it's the experience. You know, it's a pretty short course, so that's why the scores are low.
 It just fits my eye or some players' eye. I don't think it's particularly that if you don't have experience. I mean like any other course, you need to score no matter what. 

 Q. Did the wind play a factor towards the end of the round?
 SANDRA GAL: No. I felt it more in the beginning where I left some shots short and they were spinning, as I said. The wind didn't bother me, no. 

 Q. Since you're here again, who's taller, you or Michelle Wie?
 SANDRA GAL: We actually measured about a year ago, and I think she's like a smidgen taller than me.

 Q. Oh, you went back to back and she was taller?
 SANDRA GAL: Yeah.

 Q. Okay. Second tallest to the Tour then. 
 SANDRA GAL: Yeah. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: Thanks a lot.
 SANDRA GAL: All right. Thanks, guys.. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT