THORNBERRY CREEK LPGA CLASSIC
July 8, 2017
Sandra Gal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How big was it for you to get going early this morning, get your round going into the rest of the tournament?
SANDRA GAL: I mean, definitely a bonus.  I was pretty hot yesterday night, so to kind of continue that was really nice this morning.  I didn't really think about it too much, and just take it shot by shot, and I was able to hit a couple really close, which helped, and yeah, nice to have a little break now.
Q. What's been the key for you this week, just taking it one shot at a time?
SANDRA GAL: Yeah, I mean, I know that's the cliché, isn't it, but it just comes down to that every time.  Just being able to keep it really, really simple with my swing, with my preparation, and yeah, enjoying the shot that's in front of me, and then that's all I can do.  Whatever the results are, kind of letting it go a little bit more.
Q. Do you have to remind yourself of that sometimes?
SANDRA GAL: Yeah.
Q. Do you feel like you make it too complicated sometimes?
SANDRA GAL: Yeah, absolutely.  I think overthinking is definitely any golfer's issue at times, so just letting it go and just letting your natural ability take over, not doing anything extra.
Q. What do you think about this course so far?  Do you think it fits your game pretty well?
SANDRA GAL: Yeah, it does.  I really like all the holes.  It just fits my eye.  There's nothing really that I'm not comfortable with, and it's very scorable, obviously.  There's a few low scores out there yesterday and the yesterday before, so heading into the weekend, lots of birdies.
Q. Has it changed much with the weather?
SANDRA GAL: Not much at all, actually.  I feel like the greens are still same as when we started.  Maybe they were a little bit firm on Thursday morning, but they've been pretty much the same yesterday on.  It drains really well.
Q. How hard is it to go through the weather delay yesterday, you had already started your round, then come back --
SANDRA GAL: Yeah, you know what, we kind of thought we're not going to get out, and it wasn't hard because we went up and played pool, so we had a lot of fun actually.  I think that's what kept me loose, and just not thinking about the round, and winning a couple pool matches, that was fun.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT