BLUE BAY LPGA
October 20, 2016
Sandra Gal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Good start today.  You made eagle on No. 2.  So can you talk about today about the eagle?
SANDRA GAL: Yeah, it was my second hole.  I had around, I think I had 89 yards to the pin and there was a little back stop so I played it to go a little long and come back and I had a perfect line and it just rolled in.  It's just a nice start.  To hit it close or even go in the hole, it just kind of jump starts your round and kind of gets you in a nice flow, which I then kept up for the rest of the day.  That was a nice eagle.
Q. What club?
SANDRA GAL: It was a sand wedge.
Q. When did you arrive?
SANDRA GAL: Yesterday.
Q. So did you practice?
SANDRA GAL: Yeah, well, we arrived yesterday afternoon and I took the cart on the golf course and we had played three holes and then chipped and hit some shots on the driving range, which was nice that we could do that.  Actually my caddie didn't come in until four this morning.  Fortunately he saw the course last year, so he knew about it, and he did a really good job today, not being able to walk the course before.  I think considering the circumstances, I think we're very lucky that the course is in such great shape and that we all got here safe and the typhoon didn't do too much damage.  It's all good.
Q. Did you think maybe your late arrival gave others a head start, other players that arrived Sunday and Monday?
SANDRA GAL: Did I think I had a disadvantage?
Q. Yeah.
SANDRA GAL: Not really.  I think it doesn't work in golf the way that -- generally speaking, yes, you have to work hard to get to a certain level but it doesn't always equate one-to-one, if you put in a lot of practice that you play well the week off.  This is my third week, so I've hit a lot of golf balls the last two weeks and I'm in the flow of playing, so arriving late and not being prepared was okay for me because I know the course.  I feel comfortable here.  But I was also I think lucky that today wasn't that windy.  So it was straightforward.  You know where to go and pitches, it kind of stays there and doesn't run-off crazy.  It just depends on the golf course how much preparation you need.  But I think it was enough.
Q. I checked your stats and you've not performed very well for four or five events.  What is the difference this week?
SANDRA GAL: Yeah, big difference.  I've been actually mentally, I've been in a good place the last few weeks, but I actually haven't been hitting the ball very well with my irons.  My dad and I worked a little bit on my ball-striking and there was a little bit of a problem with my weight transfer on my feet.  When I was going back, I put too much weight on my toe and I didn't have good balance going through the ball, and I just kind of putt a little bit more weight on my heels so I could push forward.
Might not make sense to everyone but it definitely gives me more stability and all of a sudden I had nice ball-striking, and it just gives you a lot of confidence when you strike it well and when the ball starts on the line that you see.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT