THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT
June 4, 2009
Ted Purdy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You had a great round of golf. Birdies on 1, 4, 5, 7. Then a birdie at 14 and 15. Double on 12. But you came back nicely. 23 putts on the day. 
 TED PURDY: Yeah. I made a couple. Jack's got these pins short-sided. I made a couple of short-sided putts off the fringe, which was nice. So I kept my putt count down. Yeah, I played beautifully all day. 

 Q. Do you look at your stats? 12 of 14 fairways, 15 of 18 greens, do you look at that, or is it after the round you just don't worry about it? 
 TED PURDY: It's hard to judge. The most important stat for me is the greens in regulation. When I hit a lot of greens, I tend to play well. If I struggle, I struggle with my short game. But Phil Mickelson has helped me with that. It's coming around. 

 Q. You invested in the DVD? 
 TED PURDY: I did. I invested in the DVD. I'm plugging Phil again. I'm grateful. 
Yeah, you know, you always look at your steps, trying to improve. 

 Q. How important is it to play here in one of Jack's tournaments? 
 TED PURDY: On a PGA Tour, the way I put it is, every tournament is a perfect ten. Every tournament on the Tour is a perfect ten. This tournament is a 12. He just does the little extra things that are special. There's about a handful of 12s on tour, and this is one of them. 

 Q. You've been playing pretty well this year. Talk a little about today's round. 
 TED PURDY: They didn't mention that 9 of the last 11 rounds have been in the 60s. That's pretty good. I credit that to Phil Mickelson's DVD he got, chipping DVD. I'm getting up and down a couple more times around, which is helping me shoot the 60s. I'm grateful for Phil. 
 I putted great. I had 23 putts today. When I was in trouble, I made a long par putt, it seemed like. I had one double today on 12. Other than that, I had a fun day of golf. 

 Q. Had a round of 60. Had a few of them in a row. That's the trick, isn't it? 
 TED PURDY: The 70 rounds seem to come towards the end of the week. I need to put a few 60s in a row and then I'd have a great tournament. I'm having a few 70s in the week. Yeah, I'm having one in the 70s in the week. Have a chance of winning. You never know. Could be the week. 

 Q. Out of 23 putts, how were the greens? 
 TED PURDY: They are the fastest greens we've played all year. I didn't play Augusta, but they look like they're faster than when I was watching Augusta. You can get a feel for the speed because they are so fast. You're going to make putts because they're so true. They're the best greens we played all year. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT