VALERO TEXAS OPEN
September 23, 2006
Ted Purdy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOAN vt ALEXANDER:  Thank you for joining us for a few minutes here in the Media Center.  6 under par, no bogies, six birdies.  Looked like things playing a little bit easier.
TED PURDY:  The wind, last few holes, especially, with this front coming in, died down.
JOAN vt ALEXANDER:  Early or during the round?
TED PURDY:  Mid round.  It was still blowing pretty good for the first 9 holes.  It definitely was playing easier coming.  That's why you're starting to see a lot more birdies, I think, from the field.
JOAN vt ALEXANDER:  You played well last week.  Before that you had a couple of tough weeks.
TED PURDY:  Seven
JOAN vt ALEXANDER:  Did you change something?
TED PURDY:  My caddie.  We had a caddie/player dysfunctional situation but yeah, I missed 7 cuts in a row and then I switched caddies and I'm starting to play better.
JOAN vt ALEXANDER:  Okay.  Questions.  Natalie?
TED PURDY:  And I got a brand new driver, the Ping Rapture driver that I'm just loving.
Q.  You had the one kind of long ish putt on 6, the rest of them were in there pretty tight.
TED PURDY:  I was hitting it close and if I putted like Chris Riley, I probably would have been 12 under today so    I did have pretty much an opportunity for birdie on almost every hole today.
Q.  Would you say    you weren't really ever bogey free, were you never really in any sort of stress?
TED PURDY:  Yeah.  Bogey free.  My only real stress was 18 when I drove it in the lip of the fairway bunker and then I chipped out short of the green and I almost chipped it in.

So, I really didn't have too much stress all day for pars.  Just had a few, you know, inside 20 foot birdie putts that you like to see go in.  All in all, I'm happy.
Q.  Talk about 16, did you drive the green?
TED PURDY:  Yeah.  16 today was the first time the wind died down enough to let me go for it so I went for it and I knocked it on the green and almost made the eagle putt.
Q.  Is it a little    feels damp and humid.  Was the course playing essentially the same, was it playing any longer?
TED PURDY:  This course drains real well.  It's in excellent shape, perfect shape.  It seems to be taking water real well so it played pretty similar to the first two rounds.
Q.  There have been storms or however, predicted.  It seems like typically going into the final round, I don't know, for several years the person who had the lead after 54 holes doesn't go on to win.

You came back.  You could make a move.
TED PURDY:  Yeah.  It's hard to sleep on a lead especially on the golf course where a lot of birdies can be made.  There's a lot of guys within four, five shots of the lead so there's probably 20 guys have a chance to win tomorrow.
Q.  Is it pretty much all 18 holes do you feel like are attackable?  Are there some that you have to play    you get par and feel pretty good about that?
TED PURDY:  There's a handful of    you know, like 17, especially with the pin back right that's into the wind, that's a good par 3.

All the par 3s, you have to make par I think on the par 3s and even the shortest ones, there's some tricky    the greens aren't real big, they're kind of tricky.

Yeah, all in all if you get the ball in the fairway, the fairways are so good and the greens are holding golf shots, you have a chance for birdie.

When you miss fairways out here with the rough, it's difficult to judge, and this bermuda rough is difficult to judge if you're going to have a flier lie or not come out.  So the key is to hit the fairways and then if do you that, you usually going to have a birdie putt.
Q.  When did you get the new driver, you talked about it earlier?
TED PURDY:  Two weeks ago, I believe.
Q.  You added length but your fairways    you're hitting it long and straight.
TED PURDY:  I'm hitting it straight.  It's not reflecting, for some reason, in the stats.  I'm hitting a few 3 irons off tees because the holes aren't very long.

I have a hunch that those happen to be the driving distance holes but I looked on the 15, I was the second longest drive of the day I noticed on the board.

16, obviously drove it on the green.  14, I was I think second longest drive of the way.  I'm hitting it relatively far.
Q.  Going back to the 18th, you hit it on the lip.  How far was that chip shot?
TED PURDY:  It was    it showed on the Shot Link, showed 93 feet.
Q.  How does it feel to end especially when you kind of almost
TED PURDY:  It's huge to make that par on the last hole especially when you have a bogey free round going.  All you have to do is par the last hole to complete that task and yeah, it's very satisfying to get that ball up and down on 18 to save my par for bogey free.

Anytime you're bogey free, you're happy.  When Tiger goes weeks without bogies but
JOAN vt ALEXANDER:  Would you like him to go through his round?  Birdie on 1.
TED PURDY:  Birdied 1.  I hit driver and 3 wood and wedge to about three feet.
JOAN vt ALEXANDER:  5?
TED PURDY:  5, I hit a driver and an 8 iron to about six feet.
JOAN vt ALEXANDER:  6?
TED PURDY:  I hit a 9 iron to about 20 feet pin high.
JOAN vt ALEXANDER:  12?
TED PURDY:  12 I hit a driver and a wedge to, say, 15 feet and made that.
JOAN vt ALEXANDER:  14?
TED PURDY:  14, par 5 hit driver right in the middle of the fairway.  I was trying to make two and I pulled it left of the green.  Not real bright to hit it where I did.  I managed to get it up and down for a birdie.
JOAN vt ALEXANDER:  And 16?
TED PURDY:  16, hit a driver to about 40 feet and 2 putted for birdie.
JOAN vt ALEXANDER:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT