VALERO TEXAS OPEN
September 21, 2006
Ted Purdy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PHIL STAMBAUGH:  Natalie and Tim and Andy.  Ted Purdy, 5 under 65 and I looked it up before we came in and two years ago you started 61.  Last year you start wad 64.  Today, another good start here.
TED PURDY:  Yeah.
PHIL STAMBAUGH:  Maybe a couple thoughts about the round.
TED PURDY:  I'm slacking from previous years.
PHIL STAMBAUGH:  Justin touched on them earlier.  They were, I guess, cloudy and then it cleared and get a little windier and was trickier.
TED PURDY:  The wind came up on the back.  I had it 5 under through 10 and that's    then I turned into the wind and it was difficult to get the ball close to the hole and make putts when the winds comes up it.  Even makes the putting more difficult.

I think the afternoon players are going to have a tougher, tougher round this afternoon.
PHIL STAMBAUGH:  Okay.  Sort of like Justin as well, he had been struggling and then lately he's playing better and you tied for fourth last week at 84 Lumber.  Did you find something in your game?
TED PURDY:  Well, I got a new Ping Rapture driver two weeks ago and I'm just    I've got a lot of confidence with the driver.  I'm hitting it long and straight.

I just think the    that new driver has really helped my confidence and then on top    you know, Justin and I have small babies at home so the weeks that the babies sleep we play good, the weeks they don't, we struggle, so
Q.   What's the difference in the drivers?
TED PURDY:  It's a brand new Ping driver that's out called the Rapture.  It's similar to the G5 in shape, the Ping G5 in shape, but they cut out the top of it and put carbon fiber.  Kind of looks like Spiderman on top.  It's pretty cool.  It really    I'm hitting the crap out of it so I love it.
Q.  Along the equipment lines, I remember when you shot the 61 here a couple years ago, you were using a putter, this huge kind of head on it.  Now you've gone the other extreme, using a blade.

You just feel better?
TED PURDY:  I apparently    this putter that I'm using now I've won a couple times with, one Nationwide Tour event and won the Byron Nelson with it.

You know, I'm kind of a golf junkie so when Ping comes out with a new product I like to try it and I shot the 61 here with that big "Doc" putter.

I still like practicing and still like that big putter.  It's kind of a good complement between the two extremes and I've putted well with both of them so    but, yeah, this is old faithful.  This is my old Ping putter that I've won a couple times with.  I have confidence in it.
Q.  Some of the putts you made were pretty good.
TED PURDY:  I hit pretty much every green, maybe missed the last couple with the wind.  Those early birdies were fairly short putts.
PHIL STAMBAUGH:  Take us through the round with birdies, give us an idea.
TED PURDY:  Yeah.  No. 1 I hit a driver and 3 wood and a sand wedge to like two feet.  Made that putt.

Then the third hole, par 3, I hit a 5 iron to about 6 feet there so I made the putt.

The 6th I made a bogey, just playing relatively easy down wind.  I barely missed the green.  I tried to chip it in and ran it by about two feet and    three feet and I missed the three footer coming back.  That was my only really blemish of the day.

Then I hit it on 7 with a sand wedge to three feet and then 8 I hit it a wedge to about eight feet.  I think, made that.  Then 9 I made a pretty good putt from about 20 feet, pin high right.

Then 10 I hit it    that's a tough pin, tough hole.  I hit it right under the hole about six feet and made that one.

Then on 15, 15 was a lucky birdie there.  I was on the front ish part of the green and made about a 35 footer that broke a lot.  That was a good one to make.
Q.  On 9 you were in the fairway you were maybe, 10, 15 yards.  How far do you think you were averaging?
TED PURDY:  I don't know.  I know I'm hitting this driver further than I have been and I know I'm hitting it straighter.  So those two are a pretty good combination, which is giving me shorter clubs into the holes.
Q.  Really could have blown up after 6.  You had four straight birdies.  6 is where you missed from three feet?
TED PURDY:  Yeah.  Yeah.  I was mad.  Then I birdied four in a row.  There you go.  I'll show you.  That's always good when you follow up with a birdie that way.
PHIL STAMBAUGH:  What happened at 17?
TED PURDY:  17, it's playing really difficult, straight into the wind and there's hazard on the right so I    I wasn't really sure if I could get the club that I chose.  Chose a 5 iron.

I wasn't sure if I could get it to the pin and so I swung a little extra hard and pulled it in the left trap on the down slope and really had no bunker shot, no chance to get any closer and two putted from about 20 feet.
PHIL STAMBAUGH:  Anything else?  Ted, thanks.  Good luck this week.
TED PURDY:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT