BOB HOPE CHRYSLER CLASSIC
January 27, 2005
Ted Purdy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Hello, Ted.  Thank you for spending a few minutes with us.
TED PURDY:  My pleasure.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Another good round today, 12-under for the tournament over there at LaQuinta today.  Why don't you just give us a couple comments about your round today and then we'll go into a couple questions.
 TED PURDY:  I hit the ball probably more solid today than I did yesterday, and coming down the stretch I three-putted a par 5 for par and I missed a couple four-footers for birdie, but other than that I played pretty solid.

I'm frustrated because it was the end of my round and I missed those putts, but all in all, I should be pretty happy with where I'm at.

LaQuinta is, I think, the hardest course of the rotation, so 68 here is good.
Q.  Ted, what makes LaQuinta harder, in your estimation, and is the frustration because you missed a couple shots, or is it that you shot 68 and you kind of feel like you can't do that here?
TED PURDY:  Yeah, the frustration is, yeah, I shot 68 and I've fallen behind the leader a few shots.  Yeah, it's more about the score, about the position in the tournament.  LaQuinta is harder because you tend to have longer -- the par 3s tend to be longer, you can't hit driver a few times out there so you have longer irons into the greens, and the greens are a little more severe, maybe not as severe as the Palmer course, but they're more severe than the other three.

Basically the longer iron shots in and the greens are a little more severe.
Q.  In that regard, I mean, you're near the top of the leaderboard with that course behind you now.  Does that give you a little confidence or a little boost knowing that you're still up there with a couple of the easier courses to go?
TED PURDY:  Yeah.  I mean, I feel confident.  I'm more confident -- less to do with the golf courses and more to do with the way I'm striking the ball.  My iron shots are going right at the pin, and my driver feels good.  I felt real comfortable out there.  I felt comfortable with my putter until the last three, four holes today, and I'm sure that was just I got a little anxious, and I'll be fine tomorrow.

I'm more confident with the fact -- because of how I'm playing and not necessarily the golf courses coming up.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Ted.  Appreciate your time.  Talk to you tomorrow.
TED PURDY:  Thanks.  Bye.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT