CHRYSLER CLASSIC OF GREENSBORO
October 17, 2004
Ted Purdy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
You said you had no expectations today, but realistically, did you feel that if you put up a real good number you could certainly get up there?
TED PURDY:  Well, where I was, I think I was tied for fiftieth or something coming into today.  And there's not much difference in money if you don't have a great round.  So I needed a great round to help myself move up in the Money List.  It's one of those things that just happened.  I had two eagles on the back.  You just don't expect to do that.  Some guys have two eagles all here year and I had two eagles in nine holes.  So, you know, I stayed positive, somehow I stayed positive after playing poorly yesterday and it paid off.
Q.  Which holes did those eagles come on?
TED PURDY:  13 and 15.  The two par-5s.  I hit both shots in there about 15, 20 feet.  And I made the putts.  And very difficult putts, they weren't easy putts, because the pins are in such severe spots on the greens that you have to really have a nice touch to make the ball go in the hole.
Q.  Obviously, the pins are tough today, but the wind is kind of down a lot, so the conditions are pretty benign, good for scoring?
TED PURDY:  Yeah, compared to yesterday and Friday's round, yeah, this feels like nothing.  So, yeah, guys are going to play well today.

But the pins are in tough spots.  They're not going to shoot, you know, not going to shoot lights out.
Q.  64?
TED PURDY:  No.  I think that was just a, you know, a lucky day.  I would be surprised if anybody shoots that, another one of those.
Q.  Having to post a score this early and having to wait, how does that affect you?
TED PURDY:  I have got a flight in a couple hours.  I might have to put that on hold.  But, no, I've never been in a situation like this.  But there's so many guys at 11, guys at 12, the leaders are just teeing off, so -- but I guess in the past at this tournament they have had a history of guys finishing early and then the weather coming up and so hopefully I get fortunate with the weather.
Q.  In addition to looking for a win you still have a lot to play for, a top 40 will get you in the Masters.  Would you talk about how great that would be?
TED PURDY:  Well, my goal my whole life has been to play in the Masters.  And I'm so close to accomplishing that goal.  Yeah, that would just be a highlight of my career to get in the Masters.  I've always dreamt of winning Majors, but you got to get into the Majors to win them.  The hard part is getting into them.  But I think it's a fair qualifications.  Because I'll have earned it by the end of the year if I get in.
Q.  If you win a tournament, you can't qualify for the Masters any more.
TED PURDY:  No, it's top 40 off Money List.  So they give you a whole year to -- and usually if you win a golf tournament, you're going to be near that top 40 anyway.  And they have changed the criteria.  I think it's better because there were a lot years where Greg Norman didn't qualify for the Masters and he was obviously the top, No. 1 player in the world and he didn't win that year and didn't get into the Masters.  So I think it's a fairer way to do it.  The World Ranking system is the other way to get in, and I'm not sure how that works, I just know I'm 125th in the world, so I'm not getting in from that.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT