BUICK INVITATIONAL
February 12, 2004
Ted Purdy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TED PURDY:   It's good to be sitting here.  The North is the course you need to get, because I'm going to the U.S. Open tomorrow.  That course is long, the rough is higher, I just know today     I thought somebody would shoot 62, 63 on that other course and there might be tomorrow.  Tiger and those other players that played on the South today can go get the North side, just because there's shorter holes and reachable par 5s, and then they have got a putt for eagle three times.  It's just an easier golf course. 

If I can shoot under par tomorrow, the other side, that's tough.  Don't get me wrong, I'm very pleased with how I played. 

JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  The Pebble Beach Pro Am had to give you some confidence coming into here, playing on some of the difficult golf courses in northern California.

TED PURDY:  Those golf courses at AT&T are real tough.  Yeah, it really tells you where your game is at.  Because the greens last week were not perfect, you relied a lot on your ball striking to protect yourself because you know you're not going to make 15 footers for par that you can when you've got perfect greens. 

So ball striking really improved last week and I went out today and I hit the ball beautifully.


Q.  Inaudible?

TED PURDY:   I had a history.  I had played in '99.  It was my best finish on TOUR and I finished 35th.  And I think that was one of the eight or nine cuts I made all year. 

It's a different golf course from when I played it in  '99.  All of the bunkering is new.  They have relocated a bunch of tees and greens.  Somebody else can tell you exactly what they are.  I remember shooting 67 on the south course in '99, and I was out there yesterday in the practice round, and it's not the same golf course. 

67 is pretty dang good on that course now.  The greens are firm and normally they are soft.  There are more tiers and undulations in the greens.  Yeah, it's just a totally different golf course.  It's going to be a great test of golf. 

Three rounds over there is going to really prove who the champion is. 

The North Course, you can get, but the true test is tomorrow on the South Course. 


Q.  Inaudible?

TED PURDY:   Yeah, exactly, it's really tempered because anything can happen on the South Course.  You know, Tiger     a 67 is good.  7 under is good.  But I just assume somebody shoot 10, 11     Tiger could go out tomorrow, or anybody that played the South today, could go out and shoot a real good score tomorrow. 

But trust me, I did what I had to do.  So I'm very, very happy.  The real leader is going to     after the first two days. 


Q.  What was the key to your game today?

TED PURDY:   Everything.  I hit the fairways when I needed to.  That was probably the key because it gives you the opportunity to hit the irons close to the pin.  I missed a few fairways, but I'm short of holes, so I could still get the ball on the green.  If I had to attribute it, it was the driver.  I hit the driver straight. 

My iron play, last year I think I was one or second on the Nationwide Tour in greens in regulation and my iron game is my strength.  If I can get it in the fairway, it's a lot easier game for me. 


Q.  Inaudible?

TED PURDY:  Yeah, it's one of my dreams, one of my goals is that tournament.  Yeah, I think I've dreamt about winning the Open for my whole life, since I was three years old. 

JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Let's go through your scorecard.  You started on the back side, birdie on No. 14, the par  5. 

TED PURDY:   I hit a driver and a 4 iron just past the pin and 2 putted. 

15, I hit a 3 wood right in front of the green and chipped up to six feet and made the putt. 

18, I hit driver in the middle of the fairway and I hit 3 iron 15 feet left of the hole and 2 putted. 

No.  2, I hit 3 wood right in front of the green and hit a chip to six or seven feet and made the putt. 

4, I hit     I pulled my drive.  I thought I pulled it in the hazard.  There was no grass over there, it was a perfect lie and I hit an 8 iron about three feet. 

7, I hit a 3 wood off the tee in the middle of the fairway and a wedge to about eight feet and made the putt. 

9, I hit a driver and a 5 wood to about eight feet of the hole and I left it short in the heart.  I was disappointed but, oh, well. 

JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Thank you. 



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT