WACHOVIA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 4, 2007
Ted Purdy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Off to a good start this week, 5-under through two rounds, just maybe a couple comments about today. 
 TED PURDY:  Yeah, just good to be in contention.  I think it's my first or second time all year getting in contention, and with this field and this golf course, it feels good to be in the hunt. 

 Q.  Talk about the things that are going right for you. 
 TED PURDY:  Well, I'm finding the fairways for the most part with the driver.  Pretty much everything, and making the putts.  I've really putted well.  And the putts that I've missed, I've rolled well.  That's really been the difference is the putter feels good and I'm finding the fairway, so I've got a lot of opportunities. 

 Q.  Did you make any changes recently or just one of those weeks where things are going right for you? 
 TED PURDY:  Well, I've been trying to make a lot of changes, and basically I've missed a lot of cuts, so I'm going back to what works.  I've basically just gone back to what's worked for me in the past, and there's good memories of -- I've found my swing and I've found my putting stroke. 

 Q.  Just talk about your round out there.  Seems like today the temperatures went down and the scores kind of heated up. 
 TED PURDY:  Yeah, the ball wasn't flying as far, and it started off -- we started the day in our rain suits.  It rained for the first six or seven holes, but it really turned out to be a pretty nice day. 

 Q.  In your opinion what do you think are the toughest holes out there? 
 TED PURDY:  Well, the 9th hole is as hard a par 4 as there is on TOUR.  You've got a bunker off the tee right, and you've got to hit a nice long drive.  You're going to have a long iron in any way or a long fairway wood. 
 18 is obviously a tough driving hole, and then the fun starts on the green.  That's a really tricky green.  Actually pretty much every hole on this golf course has something, some great characters.  I wish they made more golf courses like it. 

 Q.  You look at the leaderboard, it's kind of crowded, but you've got a guy like Tiger up there, you've got Paddy up there.  Talk about the competition because we're on the outside looking in.  Looks like it's going to be a pretty exciting weekend. 
 TED PURDY:  Yeah, obviously the No. 1 player in the world, and Padraig is Top 10 somewhere, I'm sure.  Yeah, it's a great field on a great venue.  It's exciting for me to get in the hunt.  I'm looking forward to the weekend. 

 Q.  If you had to kind of pinpoint, what do you think it's going to take for you to end up coming out on top and standing there with the trophy on Sunday? 
 TED PURDY:  Well, I just need to keep playing the way I've been playing, hit the fairways, and if I roll the ball the way I have, if I putt the way I have the last couple days, I'll have a chance come Sunday, I'm sure. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT