NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINAL: DUCKS VS PREDATORS
May 13, 2017
Roman Josi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  The penalty kill continues to do a really good job.  Anything in particular you can point to as to why it's been successful?  
ROMAN JOSI: Well, I think Pekka's the biggest reason, goaltenders are always your best penalty killer and he's done a great job.  Just guys sacrificing, guys getting in and blocking shots.   
 Q.  The resiliency last night, giving up the first goal, you tie it in the third, you still find a way.  Speak to that and how that's been in this post-season so far?  
ROMAN JOSI: Yeah, we just stayed with it, nobody panicked and I thought we had a really good start, really good first period and then they obviously scored that first goal.  We just kept coming at them and had a lots of chances and got a huge goal by Phil.  And, yeah, in the third, I thought we stood back a little too much and they got the tying goal but, yeah, great job by our guys staying calm and getting the win.   
 Q.  With three goals last night, a lot of shots, happy with the shot quality or do you think you can improve in that area?  
ROMAN JOSI: Yeah, I think we can.  I mean, we got to keep shooting.  I thought we did a good job again of getting pucks to the net and it's always important, it's part of our mentality to get as many shots as we can.   
 Q.  You entered this third round against the Ducks in a difference, both team entered in different situations.  You had three or four days to rest, they came off a very big emotionally draining victory on Wednesday.  And they were pushed as the game went on.  Did you feel like maybe that gave you an advantage in the beginning of the game at least when you were dominating play that, because of what they went through a couple nights before, you were able to dictate the pace a little bit?  
ROMAN JOSI: Well I don't know if that had an influence, obviously like you said they had a big game, big Game 7, very emotional and then, yeah, two days later play the first game and we got some rest, we had some days of practice, it was, I can't speak for them, but it was definitely good for us to get some practice in and work on some things.   
 Q.  What does it mean to have James rolling again, four goals in five games?  
ROMAN JOSI: It's great, we need him.  He's a goal scorer and I thought he's been playing really well all playoffs.  He's playing hard, he's playing physical, he's playing fast, and it was just a matter of time of him getting the goals.   
 Q.  He seems to go on streaks, can you kind of tell when he's feeling it?  
ROMAN JOSI: Yeah, I guess that's just kind of a goal scorer's nature, you can't score every game.  Obviously he would love to, but it's such a tough league and he's getting looks, he got looks before he started scoring, he got a lot of chances and with him you know it's just a matter of time before they start going in.   
 Q.  Beyond the goals, it really gets under the skin of the opponents, big hit yesterday and a couple even questionable plays, what kind of competitor is he?  
ROMAN JOSE: Yeah, he plays hard.  Like I said before, even when he wasn't scoring, he was doing different things to help the team.  He was playing physical, he's hard to play against on the fore check and it's huge in playoffs, he's played, he's been playing really well and obviously wants to score.  He's a goal scorer and we're glad that that's happening too now.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT