ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
March 29, 2008
Arvin Ginn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   STEWART MOORE: We have Arvin Ginn. Let's turn it over to questions.   
  
  Q. What's the difference between the medium intensity rains we had this afternoon and the gulley-washer we had in the last half hour? What's the magnitude of condition change we're going to see for tomorrow?   
 ARVIN GINN: Well, that's a very good question, and I don't know (laughter). Until this is over, what magnitude do we have? I mean, will we have? There's no way for me to answer that question. Certainly it'll be different than what you had today.   
  
  Q. Several of the players here, Woody and Petrovic, were talking about they felt like, one, several players may have an advantage because they've already finished their round and they're so far along. How much of that was taken into consideration when you made the decision to do tomorrow like you're going to do?   
 ARVIN GINN: Here again, that's golf. A lot of times you might have strong winds in the afternoon, 30 miles an hour, and you had a perfectly calm morning. You might have a deluge of rain like we've had this afternoon, in and out trying to play. No one ever accused the game of golf of being fair, but you try to do what's fair as best you can.   
  
  Q. With respect to the 16th tee, you put it in a position early today that would tempt some players to try and drive the green. Now, of course, conditions have changed. Will you have time between the third round and the fourth round to change the flags and that tee, or is that not practical?   
 ARVIN GINN: Well, there will be a new course setup tomorrow for the fourth round. There might be a slight delay for the single that's coming out, but when he starts tomorrow morning he has four open holes to play. Depending on his pace and how he paces himself and so on, then he'll have some waiting to do. But we will change the holes and we will change the tees, except those holes that we have to play, finish. Those will stay in place until we finish the third round.  
  
  Q. I don't know if this is a question that you could answer or not, but I'm going to ask you anyway. NBC when they went to their coverage during the rain delay, there wasn't any coverage of the New Orleans event, any New Orleans event. You wouldn't know that this was New Orleans' time slot. Does the PGA TOUR have any decision-making in what they show in their three hours? They went to a tournament involving -- with Tiger.   
 ARVIN GINN: Well, I wouldn't want to say they went to a tournament involving an individual --  
  
  Q. That's me saying it.   
 ARVIN GINN: I'm not sure what kind of footage they might have had. They could have used yesterday's footage again, I suppose. I don't know what decision-making went into that. I don't know what process. I can't answer that question.  
  
  Q. So as a TOUR rep, there wasn't any kind of input from the TOUR?  
 ARVIN GINN: No, not from our end. That could have come from the office. I have no conclusion. But them not being the televising network in the past, I doubt if they had any footage other than yesterday.   
  
  Q. What kind of behind-the-scenes hustle is now required from the superintendent and his staff to have things ready for 7:20 tomorrow morning?  
 ARVIN GINN: Unbelievable. This is one of the things that we so often overlook. As the superintendent at the local facility and his staff, these people do a round-the-clock job so many times that we never even think about. These people will come out here. They'll be working tonight if at all possible. They'll be out here tomorrow morning, 2:00, 3:00 if at all possible, if weather permits.   
 They just never get the right recognition for the things they do in order to put one of these type of events on. They never do. It's a very, very complex job to start with. We have met with them and they feel fairly comfortable of jerking every chain that they can in order to get it done the way we need to done.   
  
  Q. And tomorrow's weather as I understand it is forecast to be pretty fair. With that in mind, are you confident about finishing about 6:00 or 7:00 eastern time?  
 ARVIN GINN: Well, this is one thing that all of you need to understand. We have an obligation, and we're mandated, to finish the fourth round or finish the tournament on Sunday at the scheduled -- regular scheduled time if there is any scenario that we can put together -- which there are very few, but if there's a scenario that we can put together.   
 One of the things is we have the prerogative to not re-pair and not do our new cut that we have in place for the second cut and continue playing if that schedule will give us a finish time of what was originally scheduled. And this particular scenario gives us that ability.   
  
  Q. Just to follow up on that, will you clarify for me the Saturday cut rule? Does this mean that some players who before the rain were in danger of going home at the end of the third round will now be staying through the fourth round?  
 ARVIN GINN: That is correct. They're now entitled to play, and we even had a couple of players that were home. One was in Orlando. We've already called him, and he's coming back.  
  
  Q. Who was that?  
 ARVIN GINN: Retief. We had a couple players -- and one was in the airport. One was some other place. They were already feeling that they had missed the cut.  
  
  Q. Who was at the airport?  
 ARVIN GINN: That's something that -- they have to protect themselves. We can't protect them on every scenario that's going to happen throughout the golf tournament.  
  
  Q. The Saturday cut rules are still a fairly new thing. Did they not understand that they might be essentially saved by the weather?   
 ARVIN GINN: I think they -- I don't know what their understanding was. I can't answer for them, but I would imagine they forgot and felt that everything was going to happen like it should and they just were out of it.  
  
  Q. Is this the first time this has come up under this revised cut rule, where this situation has been created like this?  
 ARVIN GINN: Absolutely. This cut rule has only been in effect two or three weeks now.  
  
  Q. Does Retief have a private jet or do you know?  
 ARVIN GINN: I would certainly think so (laughter).   
  
  Q. You said you had the option of re-pairing and not re-pairing. Didn't you say you had the option of re-pairing or not?  
 ARVIN GINN: We do, but the only time that option becomes -- comes in play, okay, is the fact that if we -- that's the only way that we can finish the golf tournament on schedule and within television time, which was originally 5:00 local time.  
  
  Q. Did you consider it at all today?   
 ARVIN GINN: We considered everything going. We really needed another hour of play today. If we could have gotten in another hour, hour and a half, we could have returned tomorrow morning, finished this third round, done the second cut, and then we could have re-paired in threes off two tees and still finished. But we couldn't get that time in.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT