ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
March 28, 2008
Arvin Ginn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Arvin, for joining us for a few minutes.  We've had several media requests for you to come into the media center to discuss this.  Go ahead and ask questions.   
  
  Q.  What is your interpretation of what happened?   
 ARVIN GINN:  Well, may I just make a brief statement?   
  
  Q.  Yes, you may.   
 ARVIN GINN:  There was an unfortunate incident that happened on the golf course during play between two fine players, possibly three players, but only a verbal thing.  Whatever it was, I was not there so I can't discuss that.  I don't know exactly what it was and be factual about it.   
 But there was something that happened that supposedly interrupted play.  One of the players had a potential of doing that.  And in the heat of the battle these players, they're very high-keyed at this point in time, and nobody can say it any better than Bubba said it a little while ago.  He gave a total apology to the media, total apology to the tournament, to the players, to anyone that might have seen or heard any part of it.  And I think that's basically sufficient, and I think that the players -- I've had a talk with all three of them at one time, and they were very gentlemanly about the entire thing, about resolving thing among themselves, and they did do so.  They shook hands, and there's no incident here.   
  
  Q.  When you were with them, there was a handshake?  Because there were no handshakes coming off the 18th green or at the scorer's tent.   
 ARVIN GINN:  I beg your pardon?   
  
  Q.  You saw them shake hands?   
 ARVIN GINN:  In the scoring area, to resolve this entire thing forever.  I'm sitting in here with them just like we're sitting here.   
  
  Q.  But that was actually in the scoring tent?   
 ARVIN GINN:  But it was a very meaningful agreement, very much so, very sincere, all quality.  That's all I can say.   
  
  Q.  In your experience have you seen many incidents like this?   
 ARVIN GINN:  That's a great question, but you know, I couldn't even start to recall all the incidences we've had, good and bad.   
  
  Q.  But is it more than you think?   
 ARVIN GINN:  No, it's not that many.  Our players are such in high -- they're such quality people.  That's factual.  That's what they are.  But that's basically all I can say, okay, because I was not there at the time.   
  
  Q.  When you went to the scorer's area, what were you led to believe was going on?  What did you anticipate you were going to find?  What did you know about the whole situation at that time when you were walking there?   
 ARVIN GINN:  That a request had been made to let's resolve this, let's get this resolved.   
  
  Q.  Was there a potential for somebody not signing the score cards?   
 ARVIN GINN:  A request from the players to let's resolve this, let's get it resolved.   
  
  Q.  We understand that Steve wasn't going to sign a scorecard until someone of your nature was --   
 ARVIN GINN:  Well, it's like we talked a little while ago, I think if something stays alive for five minutes I think we'd get enough versions that we wouldn't want to talk about it.   
  
  Q.  Could you give us the official version of what happened?   
 ARVIN GINN:  I thought I did say that.  From what I know there was a possible interruption of play, a possibility.  I even heard Bubba make the remark.  I can hear you walking, and I just heard some things and heard something, and I can't even say for sure it was you.  He told Steve that.   
  
  Q.  This happened near the 10th green?   
 ARVIN GINN:  On the 10th hole someplace.   
  
  Q.  And then when did you find out about it, soon after?   
 ARVIN GINN:  I think they were playing the 12th hole, but I'm not sure.  We're getting into specifics here.   
  
  Q.  You're the tournament director?   
 ARVIN GINN:  Yes.  I think it's a very, very meaningful understanding and settlement of the whole thing, and I can say, if any of you want something to write about and to do, get Bubba's statement.  That says it all.   
  
  Q.  Do you think this has nipped it in the bud, that this is over between the two?   
 ARVIN GINN:  Certainly.   
 JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thanks, Arvin.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT