NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINAL: PENGUINS VS SENATORS
May 22, 2017
Mark Stone
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. (Inaudible)?
MARK STONE: I mean, this is the first time we're in a do-or-die situation, so we're obviously taking it to -- this is a pretty important day.  Correct a few things, make a few adjustments.  Obviously, we didn't have much of an effort in the last game.  So we've just got to regroup and find a way to put our best effort together for tomorrow night's game.
Q. How do you get a power play started here?  It's 0 for 29, not generating a whole lot.
MARK STONE: Those are tough questions to answer.  If we had an answer, we'd have done it already.  I think, if you look at the power play, we're not really simplifying too much.  You look at the success we've had on our power play in the regular season and a little bit in the playoffs, pucks at the net, bodies at the net, and finding loose pucks.
I think in the playoffs, you look at the goals they've scored in the power play, and they've got guys in front of the net, and they're just throwing it there and chipping them in.
Q. Are injuries maybe catching up to this team, like severity of them by chance?
MARK STONE: Well, I think every team has got bumps and bruises.  I don't think anybody makes it through a playoff series without injuries.  They've got tons.  We've got some bumps and bruises in our locker room as well.  I think today, as you see, the guys that need the recovery get the recovery so that they're ready for tomorrow night.
Q. Mark, was this practice necessary?  Do you think the general feeling was we need to get out here?
MARK STONE: Yeah, I think it felt good to handle the puck.  I think sometimes in the playoffs you don't have enough practice time.  I think today was nice to get out, feel the puck, move the puck around with the guys, and kind of get that mindset of moving the legs, moving the hands, and making little plays.
Q. As odd as this may sound, can a result like yesterday almost help you take a breath and step back and almost -- I hate to use the word relax, but you know what I mean?
MARK STONE: Yeah, I think it was obviously a result we didn't want, but at the same time, I guess we didn't use a whole lot of energy in a game like that.
I think for us, obviously, we have to correct a lot of the negatives that went on, but I think it's easier sometimes to move on from those types of games.  We know we got absolutely clobbered.  So we have to have an effort tomorrow night, one of the best of the season to keep our season alive.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT