MONSTER ENERGY NASCAR CUP SERIES: FEDERATED AUTO PARTS 400
September 9, 2017
Kevin Harvick
Ricky Stenhouse, Jr.
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Kevin Harvick, you told me prerace you didn't really know what to expect from lap 30 to 90 on your tires, tried some strategy. Didn't work out. What were you looking to make a run for it?
KEVIN HARVICK: We missed it bad tonight. Just couldn't get the car to turn in the corner, would spin the tires on the exit, fall off really bad. That's a bad combination for our Jimmy John's Ford. 
The best part of tonight was I did really good on pit road. The rest of it didn't go well. 

Q. The last couple years, we're so used to you contending for wins week in, week out. Your crew chief told us you might go into these Playoffs with a points strategy, points racing in mind. Is that tough to wrap your mind around?
KEVIN HARVICK: Well, I mean, some years you have to do that. I think in order to do that, you have to get the most out of your car still to try to finish behind the guys that are running really good. 
We haven't done that the last couple weeks. In order to get the most out of our car every week, we have to perform at the best level that it can perform. So we got to get that straight and see what happens when we get to Chicago. 

Q. Ricky Stenhouse Jr., you said you were working on some things for the Playoffs. What is it you were working on?
RICKY STENHOUSE JR.: We were just working on some packages that we wanted to look for going into another semi‑short track at Loudon. Didn't work as well as we wanted tonight. We had a really good Friday, practice and qualifying. But similar to Kevin, we were struggling with a little bit of turn in the center, spinning the tires up off. 
It's cool to be in our first Playoffs. Can't wait to see if we can't advance a few rounds, put a good 10‑race stretch together. 

Q. You mentioned it's your first Playoffs. Got to be exciting, but also tough. There's a lot of pressure in the Playoffs. Where do you feel you need to improve if you're going to make a run for it?
RICKY STENHOUSE JR.: Taking away a few things from tonight, that was no mistakes. We got to take that and make sure that we do that come Chicago, Loudon and Dover, then see if we can't find a little bit more speed in our cars. We've been searching for that all summer long. 
I do like the tracks coming up. We've had good success at them. Definitely excited for our first Playoffs with Monster as the title sponsor of our series. I think it's going to be a lot of fun. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT