COLLEGE FOOTBALL PLAYOFF NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP: CLEMSON VS ALABAMA
January 7, 2017
Cam Robinson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Your defensive line is often compared to theirs.  
CAM ROBINSON: You said their offensive line is compared to our defensive line?   
 Q.  Where does their defensive line rank in your opinion from those you've played?  
CAM ROBINSON: The way they look on film, they're an extremely well-coached group, so they look really disciplined.  I'm sure they'll rank up there with some of the top defensive line we've faced this year.   
 Q.  What is your main focus?  
CAM ROBINSON: Just making sure we've got everything clicking the right way and making sure we're in the right routine.  Making sure everyone's going about their business the right way.  Making sure we're approaching the game with the right mindset, and the right attitude.  That's my main focus.   
 Q.  What's been your favorite thing since you've gotten here?  
CAM ROBINSON: We just got here last night, so I haven't had a chance to do much.  I hear we're going to the mall tonight.  So I look forward to see if I can go shop around a little bit, buy a couple things.   
 Q.  Did you get some rest?  
CAM ROBINSON: A little bit man, yeah.  11:30, 12:00, yeah, I'm not going to be up all night.  I got some sleep.   
 Q.  Where are you from?  
CAM ROBINSON: Monroe, Louisiana.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible) is that something you guys talk about?  
CAM ROBINSON: No, it's not been a distraction at all.  For the outside world, they may have looked at it like a distraction or something like that, but for us, man, we just stayed focused.  Whoever may be calling the plays, just go out and execute the plays.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible)?  
CAM ROBINSON: Ultimately, it could be different just based off the different plays that we run with each back.  But you don't necessarily block a different way for a different back.  The plays that they run are a little different.  So each one of them have different plays that they do really well.  Yeah, that's it.   
 Q.  Your team seemingly is in this position every year.  Why do you think year after year Alabama finds itself challenging for the championship?  
CAM ROBINSON: If I had to guess, I'd probably say Coach Saban had a great deal to do with it.  Obviously, he does a great job of getting us prepared year in and year out.  Obviously, we're Alabama, so we're going to have a target on our back, and he does a great job of getting us prepared for that game, ready to get us prepared to take everyone's best shot.  Just preparing us week in and week out to come out and be successful.   
 Q.  Lots of people are gathered around your new offensive coordinator right now, Steve Sarkisian.  What's your comfort level with him?  
CAM ROBINSON: We're extremely comfortable with him.  He's been around the past couple months or something like that, just being around the program.  We've had a chance to get comfortable with him, get used to him.  So it's definitely not as big of a deal as the world is making it out to be.   
 Q.  Were you super pumped as an offensive lineman seeing Bo Scarbrough get on track as running back last week?  
CAM ROBINSON: Yeah, of course I was pumped.  What's crazy, is a lot of those plays we didn't necessarily block them well.  He just made that happen.  That's just the God-given ability that he has.  He made a few of those plays happen that weren't necessarily blocked well.   
 Q.  With all the crazy stuff that's been going on, we've never seen a coordinator change the week before the National Championship.  What's it like for you guys with all the outside distractions?  
CAM ROBINSON: Just coming in and going to work each and every day.  Don't let the outside world or what the outside world has going on, that has nothing to do with what we're trying to get done behind closed doors in Tuscaloosa.  So just focus on the main goal, and the main task at hand.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible)?  
CAM ROBINSON: I'm not a White Sox fan.  I just like the way the hat looks.   
 Q.  Do you know any of the players on the team?  
CAM ROBINSON: I don't even know who plays for the White Sox.  I just like the hat.  I've got a few different hats, and that was just the one I went with today.   
 Q.  What is the biggest difference personality-wise and coaching-wise between Sarkisian and Lane Kiffin?  
CAM ROBINSON: Personality-wise, they're actually kind of similar personality-wise.  On the sideline, you know both guys are extremely laid back.  They're extremely laid back and they're always cool.  Even if it's a tight moment or pressure moment, both of them are always cool.  That's probably the biggest similarity I see between the two.   
 Q.  Any personal interaction with Coach before he left, Coach Kiffin?  An exchange?  
CAM ROBINSON: I didn't have any.  I mean, I talked to him like the day before, two days before, whatever it was, but it didn't have anything to do with that.  It was just talk.   
 Q.  Coach has been very vocal about wanting a rematch with you guys.  
CAM ROBINSON: They got one.   
 Q.  Coach Saban never fully seems satisfied and happy.  What makes Coach Saban smile?  
CAM ROBINSON: See, he may not seem happy all the time, but you know Coach Saban, he's going to focus on the bigger goal, and the bigger chance.  We're trying to get something accomplished that's bigger than just one win or rattling off a few wins in a row.  We know it's a bigger goal and a bigger picture that we're trying to reach.  I think if we play well game night, you may get a smile from him.   
 Q.  The sequel isn't as good as the original usually.  Why is this sequel going to be so special for Alabama-Clemson?  
CAM ROBINSON: I like The Hangover.  I think it will be a great game.  Two teams, two great players, two great coaches, what more could you ask for?  Played last year, this is a rematch.  We're just looking to go out there and have fun.  Play a great game.   
 Q.  Is there a sequel you have in mind that you could compare this Alabama-Clemson game to?  
CAM ROBINSON: No, hopefully this will be the best one.   
 Q.  Obviously the team has changed a little bit.  What do you remember the most?  
CAM ROBINSON: I just remember them having two ends that were really good.  They were able to make a couple plays.  But I mean they had a great defensive front last year.  They have a great defensive front they're coming in with this year.  I don't remember much.  I just know they had two great ends that were pretty good.   
 Q.  When you see them on film (Inaudible)?  
CAM ROBINSON: It's both.  Because they have great size up front.  Their guys are extremely big.  But with that being said, those guys can move really well for their size.   
 Q.  Were you surprised to see (Indiscernible)?  
CAM ROBINSON: I wouldn't say surprised because I didn't put any expectations on the game.  I was just watching it.  I watched a little bit of it on TV, and I watched the whole thing on film.  Just they came out and they played a great game that night, and they were just the better team that night.   
 Q.  Why is Alabama able to get to this point year after year?  Is this old hat for you guys?  
CAM ROBINSON: Well, first of all, it's because I don't think that guy over there, you can't compare him to he on owe he's not the average first-year quarterback.  He's probably the most cool, and the most calm guy you'll ever meet, especially freshman quarterback on this stage.   
So when we got back to this stage it's because of the things that we do ultimately.  The weapons that he has around him, and he does a great job of going out there and making plays himself and just making sure everything stays -- make sure everyone stays cool and composed and make sure the offense is running well.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible)?  
CAM ROBINSON: No.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible)?  
CAM ROBINSON: I completely agree.  I think people are losing -- not that it's a bad thing, but I think people kind of lose interest because they figure that it's going to be Alabama every year.  But that's not something that you necessarily focus on.  It's just if they're tired, I don't --   
 Q.  Do you notice any difference?  
CAM ROBINSON: No, it's not frustrating at all for us.  We're just going to keep doing what we do.  I don't know what to tell them if they're tired of seeing us.  I don't really know.  Oh, well.   
 Q.  Are you doing anything different?  
CAM ROBINSON: Preparation-wise, it's kind of the same.  We're preparing for the same team, same situation, both championship games.  It's just the preparation.  The preparation doesn't change, it's just you hope to come out and get another win, obviously.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible)?  
CAM ROBINSON: No pressure.   
 Q.  How has it been being coached by Coach Saban?  
CAM ROBINSON: It's been a great experience being coached by Coach Saban.  He does a great job of preparing us.  He's hard on us when he needs to be hard on us.  He's a great coach.  What else can you say about the guy?  He's Coach Saban.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible)?  
CAM ROBINSON: You're asking about the cause?  I don't really know how to answer that one.   
 Q.  Are you thinking the NFL?  Are you thinking of an NFL team that you'd choose?  
CAM ROBINSON: Well, if the NFL is an option, when I decide that, when that time comes, I don't think you choose the team.  The team chooses you.   
 Q.  Do you have any team in mind that maybe you'd like to play for?  
CAM ROBINSON: I mean, I haven't thought about it.   
 Q.  What's been the key to Jalen's success?  
CAM ROBINSON: He's really just gotten comfortable in the offense.  Honestly, this is the first time he's been healthy, healthy, like 100% healthy.  So he's back running.  He's gotten comfortable in the offense, and that allows him to be more confident and that allows him to play faster.  I think right now he's just out there playing football, and that's the best thing to do.   
 Q.  As an O-line man, how exciting is it to see a guy like Bo put his shoulders down and run through guys?  
CAM ROBINSON: That's what I said, man.  When I answered this question earlier, what's funny is a lot of those plays, he broke.  We didn't even necessarily block them well.  And he just made that happen by himself.  That's just his God-given abilities and him being able to do that.  So, yeah.  But, of course, it's always fun when you can watch him get down field and make big plays.   
 Q.  What's going through your head when you have a game like you had last night?  
CAM ROBINSON: I was just happy for him, man.  I was excited for him.  Just because I know how much he's been through with the injuries and the setbacks and things like that.  Just to see him finally reach his potential, it was fun.  I was proud of him.   
 Q.  Are there some guys that maybe aren't playing on the offensive line that you've seen develop over a year or two?  
CAM ROBINSON: We've got several, man.  There are several young guys.  It would take a minute for me to name all of them, in the name and how they've improved.  But we've got several young guys that have improved.  Just on the offensive line, but on the offense, period, on the team period.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible)?  
CAM ROBINSON: The same thing that motivated us the past however many weeks.  We just want to go out there and win.  We don't need a revenge factor or we don't need anything like that.  We just go out there and want to win the football game.   
 Q.  It never gets old?  
CAM ROBINSON: It never gets old.   
 Q.  What is it that stands out to you about this team and what concerns you a little bit?  
CAM ROBINSON: The first thing I noticed when watching film on them is all those guys have great size, and with that great size they all move extremely well to be the size that they are.  That was the first thing that popped off the screen when I watched them.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible)?  
CAM ROBINSON: I played against him last year.  He made a few plays.  I know he's a good player, and just looking forward to playing against him.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible)?  
CAM ROBINSON: Same thing it always is.  We try to just keep things the same.  There is no need to change anything we've done because we have a new offensive coordinator.  There is no need to approach anything any differently.  Just go back to work.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible)?  
CAM ROBINSON: I mean, he's had a tremendous impact on me.  When I came into Tuscaloosa, 17, 18, I enrolled early at 17, 18 years old.  I was a kid.  I was still supposed to be in high school.  I was immature.  But the way, I'm not even talking on the field.  Off the field, the example that he sets and the way he teaches us how to be better men off the field.  Yeah, he's had a great impact on my life.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible)?  
CAM ROBINSON: I think ultimately, just the hard work, honestly.  That's what he's instilled in us since I stepped foot on campus.  It's been drilled into my head.  It's the only thing I know now.  I think that's what I'll take from him the most.   
 Q.  What about Alabama fans (Inaudible)?  How important are they to the team's success?  
CAM ROBINSON: Man, our fans are incredible.  You can see whenever we have a far away game or anything like that, they always travel well.  They're passionate.  I call them the best fans in college football, they can be a little extreme at times, but it's fun.  I mean, you've got to love it.   
 Q.  (Inaudible) have you had any opportunity?  
CAM ROBINSON: Sometimes.  Sometimes I take a step back and look at it and think about the magnitude of the situation, but I don't do it often.  I don't do it often.  We have a goal at hand.  We have a task that we're trying to complete.  So that's where I try to keep my focus at.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
CAM ROBINSON: It's not been different at all.  We come out.  I mean, do you all honestly think Coach Saban would allow things to be different or change anything?  No.  So we've done the same thing we've been doing since I got here.  Nothing changes.  I think everyone wants it to be a big deal or something has to be different.  No, we come out and we work the same way we've been working all year.   
 Q.  What's it like being here on a national stage and achieving your goals?  
CAM ROBINSON: It's been fun.  This run we've been on, it's been extremely fun.  But my attitude and everyone on the team's attitude is we're not done yet.  So it's not time to look back and smile upon what you've done or be satisfied with what you've done, because we've still got the main goal.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
CAM ROBINSON: I honestly think the country is getting tired, but I don't know.   
 Q.  Do you feel like it's like the New York Yankees?  
CAM ROBINSON: I don't know about the Yankees or the Lakers or the Patriots or anything like that.  We're Alabama, man.  But like you said, I do think people are kind of tired of seeing us.  But I don't know what to tell them.   
 Q.  Do you plan on keeping it going?  
CAM ROBINSON: Of course.  They're just going to have to be tired.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
CAM ROBINSON: Jonathan Allen.   
 Q.  Between Garrett and Barnett, I know you have experience between both of them?  
CAM ROBINSON: Both of them are great, man.  Both of them bring different things to the table.  I don't know, I'm not sure.   
 Q.  What makes them different?  
CAM ROBINSON: I think Barnett is a little more stout.  He probably -- they just bring different things to the table.  I can't do a full break down assessment of them right now.  But they're both great players.  They both bring different things to the table.   
 Q.  Who is the best defensive man you've ever had to block in a game?  Is it one of those two or somebody else?  
CAM ROBINSON: No, defensive end, I've got two guys.  My freshman year I played against a guy named Shane Ray.  I think he's with the Broncos now.  And also my freshman year I played against a guy named Preston Smith, I think he's with the Redskins now.  Those were the two guys I think about when I think about the best players I've played.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
CAM ROBINSON: I mean, it's their rules.  We have to do it.  It definitely limits you and slows you down a little bit.  And it's not always the most comfortable thing.  It's never the most comfortable thing.  But it's something you've got to do.  You kind of get used to it over the time of just doing it.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
CAM ROBINSON: No, never.   
 Q.  What did you think when you first did it?  
CAM ROBINSON: I didn't like them at all.   
 Q.  What's the worst part about them?  
CAM ROBINSON: I don't know.  Just trying to get comfortable to them.  You're not used to it, walking around with braces on, big braces on your legs and just having to get used to them and comfortable to them.  That's it.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
CAM ROBINSON: Oh, definitely, definitely.  I don't know.  I see what you're trying to do there.   
 Q.  Whenever that happens.  
CAM ROBINSON: Yeah, whenever that time comes, I'll decide then.   
 Q.  What's it like to be back in this spot?  
CAM ROBINSON: It's fun, man.  Just like, I answered it earlier, man.  It was a great, fun game last year.  So, you know, we both have put the work in to get back to this point, and I'm just looking forward to the game, man, coming out and having fun.   
 Q.  Is it cool because especially in college sports you really don't get rematches all that often.  I know that's kind of like talked about probably more outside.  But as a fan of the sport too, do you think about that at all?  
CAM ROBINSON: Right, just like I just said, man, it's fun.  I mean, no matter who it would have been, it wouldn't have really mattered to us.  But of course it's fun to get back here and get back to the same game, the same stage, and against the same team.  I mean, just like I said, it ought to be a fun game.  I'm just looking forward to it.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
CAM ROBINSON: Do you know or are you asking me?   
 Q.  I know.  
CAM ROBINSON: Three.  He didn't force any?  He's probably forced a couple concussions, so that's cool too.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
CAM ROBINSON: I mean, just his leadership for the defense, his leadership has been, I think, his biggest attribute.  I mean, he does a great job of kind of commanding that defense and making sure those guys are always, you know, they're ready to go and they're always in the right position.  So him around with the guys, obviously the great players that surround him.  He does a great job of kind of being that guy for the defense.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
CAM ROBINSON: Not that I can remember.  Not that I can remember.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
CAM ROBINSON: I don't know.  In the first playoff game I got a little jealous when Ryan got in there, and I was like, man, we've got to score, man.  We've got to score.  That's what I kept saying.  We've got to put some points on the board.  I got a little jealous, but it's always fun to see those guys make plays.  It helps the team.  It benefits the team.  I think now the hardest part is trying to convince Ryan he's not Herschel Walker.   
 Q.  Is there a confidence boost?  
CAM ROBINSON: Not necessarily a confident boost.  Just whenever, I mean, it's just kind of they can make plays, man.  I don't know what to call it or what to name it.  It's not really a confidence boost.  But we know that our defense at any given time can strike and make a big play and capitalize and create points off the big plays also.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
CAM ROBINSON: I don't know what they do.  I don't know.  They're just good.  They're just talented.  This is a great defense.  I see why they're able to do what they're able to do week in and week out.  I see it every day in practice.  That's just a great group of guys, man.   
 Q.  Were you one of the five underclassmen that put into the draft?  
CAM ROBINSON: Yeah, I was.   
 Q.  What did you hear back?  
CAM ROBINSON: I don't even know if I'm able to comment on that.  Next question.   
 Q.  How about the transition with Coach Sarkisian?  
CAM ROBINSON: The transition has been smooth.  Obviously when the world hears about us getting a new offensive coordinator the week before a game, everyone's panicking, but it's actually been the complete opposite of that.  In our locker room, behind our closed doors, it's been just coming out and going to work, like we always have.  It's not been a big deal to us.  There hasn't been a distraction or any of that to us.  Because we're just focused on one goal.   
 Q.  Do you feel like the offense is better off?  
CAM ROBINSON: I just know we've got a new offensive coordinator.  I don't know if the offense is better off with one guy or the other.  Both coaches are great coaches.   
 Q.  When did you guys find out?  
CAM ROBINSON: I think it was the day before it was announced, announced, or the morning before.  I think the morning before the news got released.  So I'm pretty sure that's when it was.   
 Q.  What was your reaction?  Were you surprised?  
CAM ROBINSON: I mean, I wouldn't say surprised.  It was just kind of I know that Coach Kiffin had a lot on his plate trying to deal with both, and that can be a lot for anybody.  I wasn't necessarily surprised.  It's just, okay, this is what we're doing now, so let's do it.   
 Q.  People have said a group of players went to Coach Saban after the Washington game and said this is not working.  Is that true?  Were you part of that?  
CAM ROBINSON: That's completely false.  Completely false.   
 Q.  Practices been the same this week as they would have been?  Are they different in any way?  
CAM ROBINSON: Practices have been the exact same.  I just asked somebody, do you honestly think Coach Saban would let anything change?  Do you think he would change our preparation or the way that we prepare?  If you know him, that is a no.  We've prepared the same way we've always prepared.  What is the point of changing anything?  I think we've been fine up to this point.   
 Q.  How has Jalen handled this week with Coach Sarkisian?  
CAM ROBINSON: You have to ask him.  But I think he's handled it fine.  It's not as big of a deal as everyone wants it to be.  Just we've got a new offensive coordinator.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
CAM ROBINSON: I don't know, man.  Hopefully he can.  Hopefully he can come out and make some big plays for us, get down the field a little bit.  It was always fun to see O.J. make those type of plays.  I don't know.  Hopefully, he can make a couple plays for us.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
CAM ROBINSON: Oh, man.  I don't even know.  I'm not sure.  I'm not sure.   
 Q.  What's your impression of Coach Sark and how has his personality changed the offense?  
CAM ROBINSON: He's been fine.  I like what he's brought to the offense, what he's doing to the offense.  Him and Kiffin's, their demeanor is kind of the same.  They're both real calm and real cool.  They never show too much panic.  So when it comes to that, they're actually pretty similar.   
 Q.  (Inaudible) he said he's harder on himself than anyone.  
CAM ROBINSON: Right, he's a competitor.  I'm sure he's disappointed in himself whenever he doesn't perform to the best of his ability.  I'm expecting for him to just come out and be Jalen.  He doesn't have to be superman or he doesn't have to change anything he's done all year.  He's come out for us all year and been a great player.  He's made big plays.  He's done a great job of leading us on offense.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
CAM ROBINSON: Right, I think the world, it was kind of like a panic.  I mean, he had a bad game.  He's an 18-year-old freshman.  You see what he's done all year.  He just had a bad game.  That's it.   
 Q.  (Inaudible) when you look at the defense now, what jumps out at you that the challenges are going to be?  
CAM ROBINSON: Obviously, it's the same defense and same defensive coordinator.  So they're doing a lot of the same things on defense.  Now they have a few different players doing them.  But the first thing that obviously jumps off the screen to me is those guys are really big up front, but they move really well.  They have great athleticism in those front four guys who have great size also.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
CAM ROBINSON: I just saw him practice, I think, maybe one or two days.  He's come in and he's come in ready to work.  He's come in prepared to work.  I'm sure he'll be fine.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
CAM ROBINSON: I came into the game just thinking that we need to just be efficient on offense, do what we do on offense.  We don't need to try to do anything special.  Just come out, run our offense, and execute is the biggest part.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
CAM ROBINSON: No comment.   
 Q.  How is it year after year, having the high level of focus and drive?  It seems human nature says we've done this.  We've won championships.  But how does this program repeat it?  
CAM ROBINSON: Obviously, it starts with Coach Saban, man.  I guess you say it's human nature for complacency to creep in.  But if that's the case, then Coach Saban may not be human.  He doesn't allow any complacency, none at all, like zero.  That's something we focus.  We have goals that we want to accomplish, and we're as a team not satisfied until we accomplish those goals.   
I think that's how we keep the complacency away.  Just continuing to work hard.  He drills the right characteristics and the right qualities into our head.  I think we just kind of get that from him.   
 Q.  Obviously it was brought up that people have a lot of reverence for Coach Bryant?  Do you feel like Coach Saban is the best coach for Alabama?  
CAM ROBINSON: I'm not.  I'm not sure.  I never played for Coach Bryant.  I'm positive he was a great coach.  But he's definitely the best coach I ever played for.  Yeah, I'm not -- I don't know if he's the best coach ever.  I kind of leave that to y'all to kind of judge.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
CAM ROBINSON: He's a great player.  You guys see it week in and week out the things he's able to do on the field.  Jonathan Allen, not just Jon, Ryan Anderson, Dalvin Tomlinson, Da'Ron Payne, Tim Williams, all those guys are great.  They all bring something different to the table.  So, I mean, Jon is a great player, but it's a lot of other guys who maybe don't get the recognition that Jon gets that are great football players as well.   
 Q.  (Inaudible) what's he done over the course of the season?  
CAM ROBINSON: I think ultimately just the way he's played.  We've been in away games, tough situations at Ole Miss.  We're down.  We're down big, actually, and he never panicked.  He never got flustered.  He just stayed calm.  He came to us on the sideline, came to the offensive line and he's like, man, I trust y'all, and I've got your back and I know you've got my back.  It's been good since then.  We've got all the confidence in the world in him.   
 Q.  Were you surprised at his patience or his poise?  
CAM ROBINSON: Honestly, yes, I was.  That's just something you don't see.  I know when I came in and a lot of the other freshmen came in, at 18 years old, he was an early enroll guy, so especially for a guy that was still supposed to be in high school, he's honestly the definition of a natural-born leader.   
He kind of commands your respect, kind of commands your attention.  As soon as you step on the field with them or if you're in the film room with them or in the huddle with them, I've never seen it from a guy that age to be as composed and as calm as he is.   
 Q.  Is it because he does it in a quiet way?  
CAM ROBINSON: He's a quiet guy, but when he needs to speak and it's time for him to speak, he's a very vocal guy.  But off the field when he's around, he's a very quiet guy.   
 Q.  Has your opinion changed on them given all the controversy over the last few weeks?  
CAM ROBINSON: No, man.  My opinion of the way they play hasn't changed at all.  I know they're a great group of guys.  But I think when I watched them on film, the first thing that jumped off the screen to me is all those guys have great size, but all those guys are extremely athletic.  They all can make plays with their athleticism.  Usually when guys are that size, they're not as athletic, but all those guys have great size and athleticism.   
 Q.  What came to your mind when you saw that video?  
CAM ROBINSON: No comment.   
 Q.  (Inaudible) is there any sense of extra motivation for you guys after last year?  
CAM ROBINSON: I played over Shaq most of the game.  I don't know.  I guess he had a big game.  You say he had a big game.   
 Q.  Well, more along the sense of playing in a National championship game and against another good Clemson club.  Is there an extra motivation to grab another National Championship?  
CAM ROBINSON: My motivation is to win.  So that's all the motivation I need.  I'm not motivated by necessarily the players that we're playing against or the players that they have.  My motivation is to simply go out and win.   
 Q.  Talking about Jalen's leadership earlier.  Being one of the experienced guys, was it difficult at all to see him that way because he's a freshman.  You're supposed to haze freshmen?  
CAM ROBINSON: Right (laughing), haze freshmen.  It wasn't difficult at all.  He kind of commands your respect, and just the way he carries himself on and off the field.  The way he works on and off the field, you kind of have no choice but to respect him.  And the way he plays on the field, it kind of, I mean, how do you not want to follow a guy like that?   
 Q.  I didn't know in Alabama, do the freshmen have to carry the pads of guys after practice or anything like that?  
CAM ROBINSON: No, we carry our own.  Everyone carries their own pads.  No, we don't do that.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
CAM ROBINSON: I don't know, man.  Because the quarterbacks, I don't see them much in the weight room, so, but him being a power lifting guy, he's probably the strongest quarterback I've played with.  I'm not sure.   
 Q.  (Inaudible).  
CAM ROBINSON: I think I saw it a while back.  Yeah, I think I saw it a while back.  I hadn't seen it before though.   
 Q.  What is the biggest thing in preparation this week?  
CAM ROBINSON: The exact same.  The preparation is the exact same.  Our mindset.  I think we may be even more hungry this year than we were last year, just because we know that it's tougher the second go around and we have to be even more disciplined and we have to be even more prepared.  I mean, there's no need to change the mindset or anything that we've done.   
 Q.  You hear about the change.  How did that affect you (Inaudible)?  
CAM ROBINSON: It didn't effect myself or anyone on the team as much as everyone wants it to effect us or everyone kind of keeps talking about it.  It doesn't.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
CAM ROBINSON: Yeah, I guess.  We just come out and work, man.  That's it.  We don't care who the offensive coordinator is, the defensive coordinator.  We come out and when we get the game plan for the week, we come out and work, and try to get things done in practice so that we're able to execute when the game does come.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
CAM ROBINSON: The preparation for the semifinal?  Kiffin was there for the preparation for the semifinal.   
 Q.  Did you notice a change?  
CAM ROBINSON: You're talking about this week?   
 Q.  Has there been a change the past couple of weeks?  
CAM ROBINSON: No, Kiffin was there for all of our playoff games since I've been here.  So Kiffin has been there for all the playoff games up to this point.  No, we didn't change anything.   
 Q.  You didn't notice (Inaudible)?  
CAM ROBINSON: No.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
CAM ROBINSON: No, no.  I keep asking people.  Do you all honestly think Coach Saban would change anything the week before?  I mean, do you think he would change the way we prepare or the process that we go through week in and week out?  I mean, he's not letting that happen.  Our preparation is the same.  The way we prepare is the same.  Our mindset is the same.  Nothing changes just because we've got a new offensive coordinator.   
 Q.  I wasn't here in the beginning (Inaudible).  
CAM ROBINSON: No, I was at my teammates house, Cam Sims, a receiver that we have.  When I found out.  He told me, we were just like oh, okay.  So that's what we're doing now.  I mean, everyone wants it to be sort of a panic factor or, I don't really know what they're wanting it to be, but that's not what it is.  It's just we've got a new offensive coordinator, come out and play football.   
 Q.  Can you speak to the challenge of their front seven?  Just their ability to get to the quarterback?  Can you talk about what the challenge of their offensive line is?  
CAM ROBINSON: They have a great group of guys up front.  Like you said, they do a great job of getting to the quarterback, pressuring the quarterback.  So we've just got to make sure that we're sheared up on everything.  Anything we do on offense, we've got to just bring our A-game.   
 Q.  Right now, Alabama is the gold standard in college football.  This is the expectation to be here.  Is that why you went to Alabama?  
CAM ROBINSON: It's definitely part of the reason why you come to Alabama, just because of the winning tradition.  What Coach Saban has done with the program.  I mean, it's appealing when you're a recruit.  Yeah, it factored into me making the decision to come here.   
 Q.  When you watch the Clemson-Ohio State film, did the Clemson defense do anything different than dominate Ohio State?  
CAM ROBINSON: I don't know if they did anything different.  They just played well.  They came out and they played well that night.  They were the better team.   
 Q.  When you're looking at Monday night, what's going through your mind?  
CAM ROBINSON: I'm just ready to play, man.  Just we've been preparing for it.  We've been preparing for it all week, all year for this moment.  When you get to this point, you're just ready to company come out and compete.  You're ready to come out and play.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
CAM ROBINSON: Want to?  Probably not.  But, I mean, if I had to, that's just what we would be doing.   
 Q.  How would you describe the toll on a player when you're 14, 15 games in?  
CAM ROBINSON: It take a toll on you.  It takes a toll on your body.  It takes a toll on your mind.  But you've just got to put your head down and keep working.  Put your head down and keep going.  It's the end of the season, it definitely can take a toll on you.   
 Q.  What is something you've seen them present on tape that you haven't encountered?  
CAM ROBINSON: The first thing I notice when watching film on them, just like I said this earlier, it was just how those guys obviously have great size up front.  Every one of their guys up front in their front four, they have good size.  Those guys are extremely athletic.  They use it and make a lot of plays.  That's just something we're going to have to be prepared for.   
 Q.  You guys have had one loss and that was at Ole Miss.  Just everyone just says, oh (Inaudible) other than that, no one's beaten you.  Not that it's your job to beat Alabama, but how does a team beat Alabama?  
CAM ROBINSON: I don't know, man.  I don't know.  I don't know how you beat us.   
 Q.  How does Clemson stop the Alabama offense?  
CAM ROBINSON: I don't know.  I'm not sure.  I'm not sure.   
 Q.  Is it like the Death Star?  
CAM ROBINSON: I'm not sure.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
CAM ROBINSON: I think what it is when it comes to Bo, man, first of all, for anything, first and foremost, he's completely healthy now.  He's had several setbacks with the injuries and everything.  He's completely healthy now for the first time in a long time, and he's comfortable in the offense.   
When you're comfortable in the offense and what you're doing, you're able to play faster.  So I think right now at this point, he's just coming out and playing football and being Bo.  With his God-given ability, he's doing more than enough for us.   
 Q.  (Inaudible) some of these guys are here from last year.  You've seen a lot of film on them.  Are they strong, physical, what is it?  
CAM ROBINSON: I think that's what makes these guys special.  They have great size up front.  Each of those guys in their front seven or their front four, they have great size.  But with that size that they have, they're extremely athletic with their size and they use their athleticism to make plays.   
 Q.  What do you think they did so effective against Ohio State?  
CAM ROBINSON: I'm not sure.  I watched it on film.  They came out and they just played well.  They played well and they were just the better team that night.   
 Q.  How key is it for you guys to establish that athletic toughness?  
CAM ROBINSON: Obviously, that's important for us.  We want to come out and control the line of scrimmage.  That is one of our key focuses, week in and week out, just control the line of scrimmage.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
CAM ROBINSON: Honestly, the most fun part is I think just experiencing all this with my brothers, man.  This is my family I'm around here with.  Just experiencing all the great things that we have experienced.  Just living it together with these guys.  That's exactly what it is.   
 Q.  Good luck.  
CAM ROBINSON: Appreciate it.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
CAM ROBINSON: Before this week?  Of course we knew who he was.  He had been around the program.  He had been around.  So we knew who he was, yeah.   
 Q.  Did you know what his job was?  
CAM ROBINSON: I wasn't necessarily sure what his job was.  But I knew I had been seeing him around.  I had talked to him a few times.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
CAM ROBINSON: Yeah, it hasn't changed.  We're a focused group.  We're focused on the goal at hand.  We're focused on the task at hand and trying to get that done.  He's done a great job of keeping us focused and making sure we're locked in as well.  Him and Coach Saban.  So the preparation hasn't changed.  We prepare the same way.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
CAM ROBINSON: Yes, you're right.  It's an unusual situation, but it's a situation we're completely comfortable with.   
 Q.  (Inaudible) how special is Bo?  
CAM ROBINSON: Oh, man, he's incredible.  What's special about Bo, and not even what's special, the good thing about Bo right now, is the first time in a long time he's completely healthy.  He's had with those injuries, he's had a couple setbacks, but now he's completely healthy, and he's also gotten to the point where he's extremely comfortable in the offense.   
I mean, you know if you have a great comfort level with the offense, you're able to play faster.  So I think at this point, what Bo's doing, he's just out there playing football, just being Bo, that's it.   
 Q.  Jalen, any concerns about him just watching him, and has he bounced back?  How concerned are you?  
CAM ROBINSON: No concern at all on my part and not from anyone on this team.  We know what Jalen can do.  We note the type of player he is.  He's an 18-year-old, true freshman playing quarterback for Alabama.  I mean, he had a bad game.  That's it.  No panic, not on our end.  Maybe from the world, but no panic on our end.  I've got all the confidence in the world in him.  We're comfortable in him.  Trust him.  We're fine.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
CAM ROBINSON: The transition has been really smooth.  At this point, they wanted to be a big deal.  They want it like we're changing what we're doing.  But that's not the case at all.  I ask them, do you all honestly think Coach Saban would come out and let us change what we're doing all year or change our routine or the way we prepare?  No.  The preparation has been the same.  We're just looking forward to coming down and competing.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
CAM ROBINSON: Oh, man.  Honestly, I don't actually take the time to step back and look at the accomplishments.  I guess it kind of is a big deal what we are doing.  But when you're in the midst of it, it's something you don't focus on.  You don't think about.  You just come out and play week in and week out.  But, I mean, I'm sure when I get older I'll take a step back and realize how big of a deal this was and how great of a time this was.   
 Q.  This Clemson defense, what is it about them?  I mean, the talents, number one.  They make a lot of plays, they look a little bit like your defense?  
CAM ROBINSON: A little bit like our defense?  From those guys, when I watch film on them, the first thing that jumped off the screen was up front in their front four they have great size.  But all four of those guys there, their front four has great size.  But what jumps off the screen is how athletic those guys are.  Even their big guys, their big, big guys, their 300-pounders are extremely athletic.  They make a lot of plays using their sheer athleticism.   
 Q.  What would be your process after this game in deciding what you're going to do?  
CAM ROBINSON: I haven't thought about it.  I haven't thought about it at all.  I'm sure when the time comes I'll sit down with my family and make a decision.  Appreciate it.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
CAM ROBINSON: I don't get him confused with a linebacker.  He's a great back and does a great job of doing what we asked him to do.  He's a great athlete and a great player.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
CAM ROBINSON: It's fun.  I've got to catch myself and make sure I'm not watching sometimes.  The things they can do, it's special.  What's funny is Bo had a lot of those big runs last week.  What was funny, on a lot of those, we didn't even block them well.  We didn't block those well.  Especially the long one when he kind of stumbled and caught himself, we didn't block that well at all.  And that was just God-given ability with him being able to do that.  You know, so it's definitely always fun.  Not just with Bo, with any of our backs, and Jalen also.   
 Q.  I know they all have their differences, but when you see them come in and out like that, do they miss a beat?  
CAM ROBINSON: Half the time I don't even notice who is back there.  I don't know who is back there.  I don't know which back is in half the time.  I haven't paid attention.  I haven't noticed who is coming to the game.  So I'm not even sure who is back there half the time.   
 Q.  (Inaudible) you aren't buying the concept?  Does nobody like your defense?  
CAM ROBINSON: Our defense is a special group.  That's a special group, man.  That's a special group.   
 Q.  So facing those guys.  
CAM ROBINSON: I was asked the question, and the question was something similar to how do you move the ball or have success against our defense?  And I play against them every day in practice and I don't know.  I don't know, man.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
CAM ROBINSON: No, no, no.  That's not what I'm saying at all.  I know y'all will take that and run with it.  Yeah, Clemson's defense is great.  I mean, Clemson defense is a great defense.  I don't even have to say that.  I'm sure you guys know it already.  But we've got a special group.   
 Q.  (Inaudible) a unique experience, a true freshman.  What do you say to him?  
CAM ROBINSON: What's crazy about our freshmen, Jonah and Jalen as well, both those guys are freshmen.  They came in and they're so composed.  They came in more than prepared for those two jobs that they both played with.  But Jonah's, I tell people he was better.  I came in and I started as a freshman as well, but Jonah's head and shoulders over me my freshman year.  Just mentally.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
CAM ROBINSON: I had heard of him just from what he had done at USC and Washington.  Yeah, just SC and Washington.  I've always heard he's always had really prolific offenses.  I had obviously heard of him.  Never met him before he got here though.   
 Q.  Any fun facts or anything that you know about him now?  
CAM ROBINSON: Fun facts?  No, not necessarily.   
 Q.  Every coaching staff has some crazy saying, and certain coaches have something in particular that sticks out.  Anything that sticks out to you?  
CAM ROBINSON: There's a few, but I can't say them.  I can't expose them right now.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
CAM ROBINSON: I don't even know what that means when he says that.  I don't know what half the stuff he says means.  That's just Coach Burns, man.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT