SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 27, 2011
Ted Schultz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Talk about your round today.   
 TED SCHULZ: It was a frustrating day. I didn't make any putts today. I missed a lot of short putts. It could have been a lot better. I hit it better but, you know, 144. I just need to have a good weekend.   
  
  Q. How is the course different today as far as yesterday?  
 TED SCHULZ: It wasn't as wet. There was no hydroplaning today. You could putt it decently -- it's still wet, but not as wet, so you're hitting normal type shots today.  
  
  Q. The putter keep you from getting any momentum going today?  
 TED SCHULZ: It did. Absolutely. I felt like I struggled all day because I couldn't get any putts to fall. I had a lot of chances early.  
  
  Q. Was there one part of the course that was harder than the rest?  
 TED SCHULZ: I think it's the same. You have 6 and 12 and 16 are three very difficult holes. And then you got a couple -- there aren't very many birdie holes out there. There just really aren't. A couple, but this golf course is very challenging and you got to play the tough holes good and then the birdie holes you need to make some birdies. But you know the par-5s are birdie holes.   
 I drove it in the rough on the first par-5 and didn't get out very good and I missed a short putt there on that par five too. A 5-footer. But I hit a poor drive.   
  
  Q. Can you reassess your day today?  
 TED SCHULZ: Just it was a struggle today. I didn't putt very well and hopefully tomorrow I'll make some more putts. But that was pretty much it, a pretty frustrating day.  
  
  Q. How were the greens?  
 TED SCHULZ: The greens were great. They weren't quite as good as yesterday because I was first off and nobody was in front of us. Today we had trampled on greens and so it wasn't as easy to make putts, but the greens are great. They're in great shape.  
  
  Q. Did you feel like you had an advantage going first?  
 TED SCHULZ: Yeah, I think so.   
   
    
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT