BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 13, 2015
Monica Niculescu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. WILLIAMS/M. Niculescu
  7‑5, 7‑5 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Words can't say.   You played so awesome.   How did you feel playing Serena?   I mean, you were just so fabulous.   I was like, wow.   I was like, what is her name again?   
MONICA NICULESCU:   I actually felt really good on the court.   I was surprised, because I didn't know how I'm going to react.   I was waiting all day for this match.   It wasn't easy.   Going out on the court I felt amazing.   
I think I played pretty good.   I'm happy.   The crowd was very nice.   I felt awesome on the court.   I think was a good game.   
Yeah, surprisingly I felt really good on the court, even though the crowd was ‑‑ at the beginning it was ‑‑I had so many emotions because I saw the crowd like standing up when Serena came on the court.   
But I felt good.   I felt good.   I'm happy that I could play my game.   
   
 Q.   You have obviously such a unique game.   Did you have any doubts you'd be able to match up against the No. 1 player, Serena, with all her power and everything?   
MONICA NICULESCU:   Yeah, it was tough.   I didn't know what to expect, because I played one time against her but was doubles, her and her sister.   It was a final in Stanford, and I remember I could not put too many returns back because she was serving really good.  
But, yes, I think I was doing pretty good, and I'm happy.   I'm a bit sad that I could do 3‑0 first set maybe, who knows?   I had that chance, that volley, so easy, and I missed it.   It was 2‑1.   It was big difference if I could do 3‑0.   
But I don't know.   She's amazing player, and I'm happy that I could play my game.   This was my plan:   just play relaxed and play your game, because it's going to be fine.   If I'm relaxed and I could do my game, my game how it is, it's special and unique.   If I'm relaxed and I can play, it's gonna be tough.   
But it was important for me, this, and I'm happy that I was relaxed.  
   
 Q.   How long did it take for you, Monica, to put aside all of the, I don't know, maybe nerves or things, just all of the hoopla surrounding Serena's return?   Were you able to settle into the match immediately, or did it take a few games?  
MONICA NICULESCU:   I mean, as you could see, I was 2‑0 up and almost 3‑0, so it was okay.   But all the match I felt pressure.   
I mean, when I was serving, she was standing so close.   Like her game, all the time she wanted to hit fast the ball.   I just tried to run and put the ball a bit longer, you know, near the baseline because she was so near the court to make her a bit in trouble, you know.   
I mean, I don't know.   Some balls, there were ‑‑I wanted to ‑‑I always wanted to be aggressive and for me to, how do you say, to start the point good.   
But she was always putting pressure, and I could not always control, you know.   I wanted to do much more with the ball, but all the time putting pressure.   So I tried and, I don't know, that was it today.   
   
 Q.   You said when you came on the court maybe you had some mixed emotions, but do you think in some way the energy of the crowd, even though it was for her, also helped you and helped you lift your game?  
MONICA NICULESCU:   Maybe, because I felt amazing.   I mean, I went on the court and I thought my heart will be so tiny and beating, but I felt good.   I was happy that the crowd overreact ‑‑no, that the crowd did like that.   
I was happy.   I felt better.   I played also one time I remember on a big court in China against Na Li.   They did a stand, a big stand for her, and a big court.   The same.   I felt amazing when I entered on the court.   
But that match I won, but anyway...   (Laughter.)  
It was almost the same because the people were expecting for Na Li to play good.   They did that court for her and so many people for her.   
Yeah, it was different result, but I felt good, yes.   The crowd helped me also.   I felt they were very nice to me.   And to Serena, also.   That's why I could play my game, and it was nice, I think.  
   
 Q.   What's your memory of this match?   What's the memory that will stand out for you?  
MONICA NICULESCU:   Memory?   Just that I could‑‑ you know, I was happy that it was not, you know, like 5‑0 and then I was coming back and 5‑2.   I was all the time close to her, and I felt that I can do much more and I can play much better.  
At one point I could even guess her serve, so it was amazing feeling for me.   I mean, today my backhand was really great.   I felt my backhand okay.   Just the memory, because I always wanted to play No. 1 in the world.   I wanted to play with Serena.   
I didn't know What to expect, and I was thinking, oh, my God, what's gonna happen, you know?   It's 7:00 p.m. and hopefully the match will not be short.   
You never know with Serena.   It was okay.   I felt great.   The plan was to play relaxed, to play my game, to try to mix it up.   Don't play the same, because she likes it.   
I think it worked.   I mean, I didn't win, but‑‑ I don't know.   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel this match and the way you played gives you more confidence going forward because you played Serena so well?   
MONICA NICULESCU:   It's always about luck, you know.   I mean, now I'm going to focus on doubles, and then I'm going to go to Miami.   But it's all the time depending how lucky I am.   If I like the opponent, their style and how it's gonna play.   
I'm hoping to stay focus and practice good here and maybe do something good in doubles.   We had a good result yesterday.   We beat No. 6 seeded, and who knows now what to do?   Focus on doubles.  
   
 Q.   The anticipation for this match was very different than almost any other match with all the attention on Serena coming back here.   Did the crowd, the atmosphere, feel like something totally different than any other match ever for you?   Did you sense this sort of moment?  
MONICA NICULESCU:   Just at the beginning when we walk on the court.   When I saw everybody stand up and they were so happy seeing Serena, it was a big moment for me and for everybody.   
And also, yeah, playing Serena.   I never played against her.   The doubles, which is doubles.   Yeah.   It was big.   I liked it.   I mean, was nice.   
I really like to play on these big courts, and I felt great.   Hopefully in Miami, with a little bit luck, it's gonna be okay.  
   
 Q.   You said that you could read Serena's serve?   You thought you could guess it.   
MONICA NICULESCU:   Very rarely, but sometimes.  
   
 Q.   Were you just guessing, or was there something she was doing that was tipping you off?  
MONICA NICULESCU:   No, guessing.   I was guessing.   No, she's tossing, and you cannot see exactly where she's hitting.   That's why she hit many aces.   I was trying to put the ball back and try to play many balls, but she was acing me all the time.   Was not easy.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT