CHINA OPEN
October 2, 2011
Monica Niculescu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







M. NICULESCU/L. Na
  6-4, 6-0

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. (Through translation.) First of all, I would like to extend my congratulations on your win. In today's match, you used a lot of slice and dropshots. Is that a technique you have taken before the match? You had plans?
 MONICA NICULESCU: No, actually this is my game. I like to mix it a lot. I like to come to the net, to not play different, just not -- I like to mix it. You know, just dropshots then slice. 
 It wasn't a tactic to play against Na Li, it was just my game. It worked today, and I'm happy about it. 

 Q. (Through translation.) How would you comment on your opponent, Li Na?
 MONICA NICULESCU: She's an unbelievable player. I mean, she won a Grand Slam final, and I don't know what other results she did. She's a good player. I can say I'm a little bit surprised that I beat her, but I really thought that I played good. I didn't know what's going to happen. 
 I knew I played good, but I didn't know how she is playing because I never played against her. Just see her on TV in matches. My tactic worked. I played long balls and mix it, every point and every game, and I won.
 I'm happy. I'm happy that I could play my game and it worked, you know. 

 Q. You say you're a bit surprised. Can you elaborate on that? Were you expecting her to come out all guns blazing given that she was at home, or did you perhaps sense that something was not quite right and that you could take that advantage?
 MONICA NICULESCU: No, I mean, I knew she didn't play anything before US Open. After US Open she didn't play anything, so... 
 I played very good matches in quallies. I had two matches in my game, and I played really good. I did four rounds in US Open, and, you know, I did some results and I was confident. I knew I play good.
 But, again, I was thinking, Okay, she's top 5, it's not going to be easy, even though I play good. So I just came in the match and didn't know what to expect, and it seems I won. I played my best and I did it. 

 Q. Obviously this is a boost to your confidence. Do you think you can get quite far in this competition? Give us your thoughts on the new venue as well. 
 MONICA NICULESCU: Actually, I don't want to say it, but I didn't even watch my next opponent. I don't even know against who I am playing. I never look actually. I just look my opponent for next day and that's it.
 So I don't know against who I am playing, but I'm really confident. I told you I did four rounds in US Open, so I'm confident. I had a little bit break after, so I'm coming fit and want a lot from me. 
 Of course I like Beijing a lot. The new venue and the players' lounge is unbelievable. Beijing is great. I cannot say -- I don't have any words about the stadium. It's unbelievable. It's so big. I felt so good out there. 
 I just went and all the crowd was big and was -- I don't know why. I came there and I felt unbelievable. Just good stadium, good crowd, confident, give me confidence. I don't know, it's so big and I like it. (Smiling.)

 Q. (Through translation.) In China, since Li Na won the French Open she has become very, very popular. Today with such a big crowd in the new stadium, you are playing against her in the new stadium. Did that put you under a lot of pressure?
 MONICA NICULESCU: Yeah, was pressure, of course. I mean, for sure they were cheering with her. Every time she was making a point they were like, Come on. When I did a point it was a little bit quiet. 
 But doesn't matter. I was there every point, every game, and I was focused. She's an unbelievable player, so I'm really happy. It's the best win ever. I mean, I had a lot of chances against Schiavone which is also top 10, but I never make it. You know, I was all the time losing 7-6. 
 When it was a good moment I was losing these moments. Now I took my chances and I won, so I'm happy. 

 Q. You say it was your best win so far in your career. Obviously Li Na was a bit disappointed and didn't have too much to say to her fans right now. Just sort of wondering, obviously good fans, many of them here. How do you feel about disappointing arguably 1.3 billion people? 
 MONICA NICULESCU: Wow, I wasn't thinking about that. I'm sorry. I mean, I don't know. I just -- I don't know what to say. I know everybody was cheering for her; I felt that in my match. But you how it is. You play a match and somebody has to win and somebody has to lose. 
 This time was Na Li and I'm sorry. But I don't know. I'm guessing I played better. I won. I don't know. 
 I'm pretty sure they were happy when she won French Open, so...

 Q. I notice that you use quite a lot of topspin. Is that your tactic for only this match, or you did you learn something from Stosur? 
 MONICA NICULESCU: Yes. I mean, it was a tactic actually today. I want to spin a lot, to play long balls and high balls, and just, you know, put a lot of balls in and no mistakes. I think it went really good. 
 Yes, this is my tactic. I cannot say it was a tactic for today, but also it's my game. I like to mix it. I told you, I don't like to play the same. I just like to play lob, then hitting, then slice. I want to be different. I think I'm unique, so, yeah. (Smiling.)







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT