NBA DRAFT
June 26, 2014
James Young
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		  THE MODERATOR:   James, if you could just start with an opening statement about being drafted by Boston, please. 
JAMES YOUNG:   I'm very excited to be drafted by this organization, and I can't wait to get started.   It's been a long time coming, and like I said, I'm very excited. 

Q.   James, Marcus is going with you to the Boston Celtics.   You guys as a backcourt tandem, talk about what you'll bring to the Celtics and playing with Rajon Rondo and Kelly Olynyk. 
JAMES YOUNG:   I feel like attacking the basket and getting open shots and creating for others really. 
Me and Marcus, I feel like we really work together in the backcourt.

Q.   Do you and Marcus have any history together? 
JAMES YOUNG:   Not at all.

Q.   Are you going to build some? 
JAMES YOUNG:   Definitely.   We can always build a relationship and definitely just start from there.

Q.   James, talk about what you know about the rich history of the Celtics organization, if any. 
JAMES YOUNG:   I really don't know that much about it, but I got to start doing my history now, I guess. 

Q.   James, sort of along those lines, you and Julius go to the two most storied franchises in the NBA.   He was giddy about his landing spot.   I assume you are as well.   What did you say with Calipari?   He said he was thrilled about where Julius landed. 
JAMES YOUNG:   I'm really excited, like I said.   Cal said he had a feeling I was coming up soon.   When I got called, it was just a big smile on both our faces.   I came a long way, and Cal's been there for me.

Q.   What do you make of that, you and Julius both ending up in maybe nontraditional spots for‑‑ you might go to a loser right away, and now you have a chance to go to a franchise and win. 
JAMES YOUNG:   Like I said, I'm very excited.   He's doing well going to the Lakers, and I feel like I'm going to do well going to the Celtics.   I'm pretty sure we'll cross paths soon. 

Q.   On a lighter note, the last time you were here at the Barclays Center, you were sitting next to a lovely recording artist by the name of Rihanna.   Are you going to invite her to one of your Celtic games or invite her when you come to the Barclays Center? 
JAMES YOUNG:   Yeah, I mean, of course I will.   Who wouldn't?   If she wants to come, then yeah, I definitely would. 

Q.   Did you speak with her at all? 
JAMES YOUNG:   I got to talk to her a little bit.   She's a cool person, a sweet lady, and I kind of met her at halftime, too.   She's really nice. 

Q.   Just wanted to talk about what do you think you can bring to the Celtics team?   Have you actually watched the team this upcoming season, too? 
JAMES YOUNG:   Yeah, I watched a little bit of them.   Definitely a lot of energy to the team on the offensive side.   Attack the basket and really just put a lot of points on the board.   That's what I'm there for.   So really just be an all around player and look for open guys. 

Q.   How did you choose Roc Sports as your agent?   There are a lot of agents out there. 
JAMES YOUNG:   They were talking to my dad for a little bit, but when I sat down and talked to them, it was more of a family‑based thing instead of just business.   I'm a big family guy.   Once dad brought that up, he came to me, and I definitely had to go with them.   Going with Jay‑Z but still family based means a lot.

Q.   What kind of relationship do you already have with Rajon Rondo, if any?   And how well do you know any of the guys you're about to play with? 
JAMES YOUNG:   I haven't really talked to Rajon, and I have a relationship with probably nobody on the team. 
Me and Marcus, we roomed together at the Combine a little bit.   So me and him have a little connection.

Q.   That being said, what can the guys already on the roster expect from you as a teammate? 
JAMES YOUNG:   A guy that's going to be confident, learn from the veteran guys, and definitely just‑‑ definitely, like I said, just learn really, have them show me the ways and just be a part of the team, be a great teammate.

Q.   Tell me what do you know about Brad Stevens, and also how do you feel about being able to grow with a new coaching staff in Boston as you start your career? 
JAMES YOUNG:   Like I said, I don't really know much about the Celtics.   I just got to start doing my research tonight.   Yeah, that's basically it. 

Q.   The Celtics just came off a great era with Kevin Garnett, Paul Pierce, Ray Allen.   Now they're forming sort of the next generation with Jared Sullinger and Kelly Olynyk.   How does that feel with the torch being passed to you young guys? 
JAMES YOUNG:   Just feel like we got to keep going along with the energy and toughness that Boston has.   Just going along with it.   I feel like we can be a very good team.   I feel like, if we just connect together, we can be real good. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT