U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 16, 2018
Kiradech Aphibarnrat
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  In the afternoon rounds, assuming the wind picks up, how do you foresee the scores?  Going a little bit higher?  Like you said, the greens won't be as receptive, moisture will be down.  Or do you foresee some good rounds coming in?  
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: Well, it depends on the wind.  If the wind is staying and this type of wind, I believe some top player is going to hit a couple under.   
But this course, when the wind picks up, is a completely different golf course.  Really difficult to put the ball in the fairways, can't hold the greens.  When you hit the short iron, you have no spin on this green at all.  And the pin was really tricky.  You just have to be really patient and really calm on the shot.   
 Q.  It's moving day, as they like to call it.  You made a move.  You had a good round.  You had a good day.  Talk about the experience of being here on a weekend and in the U.S. Open and how you were able to manage it.  
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: It's always pressure to be in the U.S. Open, one of the biggest and one of major in the world.  To have a chance to play on the weekend is such a great week.  And to move up a lot on the position, which is the way to do it on the third round, I just tried to do everything that my job has to do, keep the ball in play and just hope it will be my day.   
 Q.  What specific things were you trying to accomplish today in having a good round and then actually getting the round that you did have?  
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: I think it's all about keeping the ball in play, under the wind and then put it in the right positions.  Some putt you have to be a little bit against it, some putt you have to back off a little bit.  It just has to be all about the game planning.  And some holes, 5 doesn't mean a bad number.  If you hit a misposition, in this course when you make a mistake, it hurt a lot.   
 Q.  Were there any places you felt like you could maybe take something the golf course did not give you, maybe take advantage of something and maybe get a number that otherwise you might not be able to get?  
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: At the start and then the last five, six holes at the finish is quite makeable.  It's short iron holes and you can hold the green, you can get the spin on the green, a couple par-5s.  The par-3, the pin was not so difficult but it's tricky.  If you hit a good shot, you have a chance to make it, but if you miss sometimes it's impossible to make up and down.   
 Q.  Tomorrow, any special strategies?  Keep it simple?  How do you plan to play it?  
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: Yeah, it's just keep it simple.  This golf course, you can't be too much against it.  You have to put the ball in play.  You have to hit more fairways, more greens and just keep it going.  I'm just trying to play my own game.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT