THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 13, 2018
Kiradech Aphibarnrat
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Played great golf for 17 holes, just one really bad hole there.  Just sum up the day.  
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: It's such a good start, everything was rolling like the way I want it to.  I think I got my A game out starting early, and it kept going all day.  There wasn't a missed shot.  I think the one bad shot was on the third hole that I pulled my 7-iron a little bit too long, but I get up-and-down for par.  So that's a big par from there.  And then I don't want to talk about it.  17 is, I shoot like 6-over this week, which is the last two days.  That two balls in the water, that got the TOUR card away from me and it's just a pain.   
 Q.  71, 71, 71, you thought you were playing well, what made it finally click today?  
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: I rolled the ball much better on the green today.  I hit it solid.  My iron play was sharp as I used to do.  I think I'm like getting used to the golf course, to the weather and at the end of the day it's not a bad result to be 5-under in the final round, but it's still a little bit disappointing for me with the way I'm starting and the way I'm playing the first 16 holes.   
 Q.  Eagle on No. 2.  Walk us through that hole.  
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: I changed the game plan.  Normally the first three days I hit 3-wood off the tee and I hit driver today, which is like right in the middle.  It got me like 200 yard, 205 to the flag, a little down breeze and I hit 6-iron inside seven feet.  It's one of the best shots all week.   
 Q.  What were you trying to do on 17?  
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: Well, it's between the clubs.  I had 126 to clear the water and 31 to the flag.  I hit my wedge, like full wedge I can carry like 125, 127, that's the maximum.  And I believe it's the downwind from the right.  So I tried to hit it as hard as I can but I missed it.  I mishit it and it went about two yards short.  I decided not to go to the drop area because I feel like it's so grainy and tight, so I'm want to go hit from the tee with the wedge.  So now I changed the club to be a little longer, but I tried to hit it soft and mishit it again.   
 Q.  You had a pretty good rooting section with the guys over the flags over their shoulders.  Were you able to feed off those guys kind of cheering you through the course?  
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: Yeah, obviously I have to thank all of them, all of the Thai people around Jacksonville that come over in support.  It's been such a good week in the course and outside the course for me.  Fantastic.  I feel like I'm home, it doesn't feel away.  I got good food, every day they come out with good support, and it's not a lot of crowds, but I feel like they have a thousand people around me.   
 Q.  What can you take away from an experience like this today?  
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: Well, I don't think I take -- I know that I'm learning from tougher golf courses, but the 17th hole is just one good shot you can walk away with 2, it's just a short par-3.  But I think I'm a little bit too much aggressive and I was -- when you're playing under pressure and, in one point of the game I was looking to the course record as well.  I was like 8-under and I didn't get birdie on 16, I don't know, it just popped up in my mind, but it's not a big deal.   
 Q.  Making birdie on 18, does that at least take away some of the pain from 17?  
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: Not at all.  Not at all.  It doesn't matter what happened on the last hole, I obviously have to tell you.  I hit the 3-wood like way right I'm just want to be done.  If I can walk away with it, I just want to quit.  I know it's not a good thing for the players, but to be honest I was like lost, little bit lost my mind.   
 Q.  Even though it's real fresh, for being jet lagged and exhausted, pretty good result this week?  
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: Overall it's not bad.  I quite accept it.  But just that, just one hole is what I'm saying.  I've had a good week first three days, really consistent, 71, just barely made the cut.  The third round, the Saturday it should be a moving day, I didn't do anything.  I made double on 17 again and today just like I'm saying just a tough day.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT