TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN
November 4, 2017
Kiradech Aphibarnrat
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Kiradech, another round of 66.  What do you feel you did particularly well today?  
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: I think every part of my game are quite better than the standard.  I didn't hit driver good, holed a couple putts, but overall, better than standard.   
 Q.  You're an aggressive player.  Do you have to be careful to be too aggressive?  There's a lot of water out there?  
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: Yeah, last week didn't try to play too much aggressive.  This week just enjoy.  I had a lot of fun the last two months, so try to keep enjoy the moment.  I don't know what the result is going to end up tomorrow.  I will try to enjoy my game, my feel and one of the best moments for me.   
 Q.  I know it's your father's birthday today.  Is it true you asked Henrik Stenson to record a message to him?  
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: Well, I've been asked, I think five top players this morning.  Especially have to thank Henrik, Justin Rose, Ian Poulter, Nicolas Colsaerts and myself.   
Henrik, it's really special for him.  It's his idol.  He never ask me for photos but he ask me last week at the World Golf Championships.  That's why I try to beat him; that's because my dad love you too much.   
 Q.  You talked about going through a swing change this year.  Is this the most comfortable you've been with that new swing?  
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: Yeah, last two months is the best moment for me.  Striking the ball solid, so good.  Even this week, it's not my A Game.  I don't hit the iron shot as I do in Italy or in Dunhill.  But it's much better than the standard.   
It's more green in regulations, putting is better, and overall it's just much better.   
 Q.  Do you watch the leaderboard and did you have an idea what was going on with Nicolas Colsaerts?  
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: Well, we are playing together.  He's struggling on the tee, tee box a little bit.  But he's a really good player to control himself.  It's really tough to take five-stroke lead, four-stroke lead and be back two strokes is quite tough.  But the way, how strong he is, I believe he going to come back strong, as well.   
 Q.  Do you change the game plan for tomorrow, or depending how packed the leaderboard is, do you just do the same thing?  
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: I really want to win but end of tomorrow, I just want to enjoy the best moment of my golf career.  To be playing well end of the season, to show all the golf fans that come out and support, just want to be myself.   
Like today, I really enjoy, even the last two holes, my putting speed was a little awkward but I still enjoy it.   
 Q.  No dropped shots.  You must be pleased with the way that's gone.  
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: Of course, from five strokes behind to be at the top of the leaderboard; the way I'm playing is quite comfortable.  I really enjoy this moment.   
 Q.  Obviously playing with Colsaerts, he didn't have the best of days.  Is it sometimes difficult when things are going wrong to focus on your own game?  
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: I mean, I was really sorry for him not playing well.  We're good friends and you know, it's just quite tough the way he playing.  Take four, five strokes ahead and end of the day be two behind.   
But I think Nico is strong enough to come back tomorrow.  He is the one that we have to be really careful with him because his game is fantastic.   
 Q.  You were in contention at KLM and in Italy, and probably just one bad hole in each of those events that cost you.  You must feel you're not that far away from seeing it through to victory?  
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: I already forgot everything that's in the past.  I just try to keep knocking on the door.  One day they open for me.  One day I get the job done.  Whatever I'm going to finish, I just want to enjoy the best moment in my golf career.   
 Q.  You managed to get a special birthday message for your dad?  
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: Yeah, I've been asking some top players to have the birthday wish, and I appreciate all of them.  I think my dad will love this present today.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT