TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN
November 3, 2017
Kiradech Aphibarnrat
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Big finish at the last, an 18-footer for birdie.  How important was that to close the gap a little bit on Nicolas Colsaerts?  
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: Well, it's always a good way to finish the last with a birdie and get away from the golf course.  It will be sweet dreams overnight.  It's a little bit closer to Nicolas, but the way he's playing the first two rounds is fantastic.   
 Q.  You spoke yesterday about some swings changes you've gone through this season.  Are they clicking now?  Do you feel like you're more comfortable with them at this point?  
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: The last three months, I was playing solid golf and really comfortable with the swing.  The way I'm striking the ball is fantastic.  I'm working with my coach and understanding what to do, and I think it's working the right way.   
 Q.  Coming towards the end of the season, do you maybe change your mind-set a little bit to be a little bit more aggressive?  There's two more events after this week.  
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: Not really.  I just want to enjoy the way I'm playing, enjoy the rest of the events.  Especially coming at The Race to Dubai, almost finish and try to enjoy every event, every last event that I go and play, especially with my family beside, my mom.  I'm just really happy with the way I'm playing.   
 Q.  Another great round from you.  Some great putting, the one on 15, and a nice way to finish on 18, another long one for birdie.  
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: It's great to start the day with the birdie and finish the day with a birdie on 18.  Get away from the golf course and good sleeping.   
 Q.  You very nearly chipped in for eagle on 9 from just off the green.  That could have been even better for you.  
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: Yes, that birdie is quite difficult.  I hit away from the rough.  Landed perfectly with the slope.  Golf today is on and off.  Didn't hit a lot of good shots but some holes that I need the putt, I make the putt.  Some holes I get up-and-down.  So quite struggling in beginning, in the middle of the round, but overall still a good scores.   
 Q.  What has been the strongest part of your game over the first two days?  
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: I think putting is quite good.  Not being like A Game, but everything is more than average.  So overall, just break even.   
 Q.  Nicolas Colsaerts has a little bit of a cushion at the moment.  What will be your strategy be now going into the weekend?  
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: I'll try to out-drive him tomorrow.  That's all I want to do, but it's going to be tough.   
But you know, next two days, I just want to enjoy myself with the golf course.  Really nice, beautiful golf course and with all the golf fans coming out to support.  Just want to show them what we can do, entertain and play my own game and make myself comfortable.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT