ITALIAN OPEN
October 15, 2017
Kiradech Aphibarnrat
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How would you summarize your final day at The Italian Open?
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: Well, I was doing migrate effort to be on the top of the leaderboard for a while, and then just a bad mistake on 16.  Made six, one single, doubles, and get the trophy away from me.
Q. How good was it to start the way you did?
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: Yeah, I was really comfortable with the way I swing and the way I start today was awesome to be at the top to put me in position.
I've been playing solid golf for all days, four rounds of golf.  Every single hole today, stay patient, focus on the game.  Double on 16, but the birdie on 17 was one of the best shots that I've ever hit.  Overall, still tied second.  Still happy with the result.  Fantastic putt on the last hole.
Q. What happened on 16?  You weren't totally after it.  You were still in the hunt for the title.
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: Yeah, 16, it doesn't look that tough, on the first cut.  But I try to hit a soft seven.  I don't think the grass is going to pull my club that hard.  Just a bad chip again.
I've been struggling with my short game for a while, and to get away from there, just try to work with my short game.  I think my game is ready for it.
Q. Tee-to-green, you were awesome today, weren't you.
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: Yeah, it's not just today, it's an all weeks.  The last four or five weeks, I've been striking the ball the way I really want it.  Just around the greens, if I work it back to the way it was, I've still got a lot of opportunity to be in position.
Q. What can you take from this performance, another good performance on The European Tour into the rest of the season,
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: Well, it's a good memory to be the first time in Italy, and especially this event.  A lot of crowds, and I have to thank everybody for coming and supporting tour and the players.  We need it.  It's been a fantastic memory for me.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT