ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 6, 2017
Kiradech Aphibarnrat
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. A round of 6-under 66 today.  What do you make of your day today?
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: Really pleased with the way I'm playing.  Hitting the ball really solid.  Holed a lot of putts today.  Just disappointed at the end.  Etc. Not the way to finish.  Just 50 yards to the flag, 3-putt.
Q. We saw some great putts holed out there as well, most noticeably the one across the 10th green.  How important is it on this golf course to be really on with the flat stick?
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: There's a lot of very important -- just give your opportunity and hit a lot of greens today.  We were quite lucky with the draw, the wind, slowed down a little bit.  So a chance to make a lot of birdies.  I mean, the whole course can be really tough and the wind picks up, if you just get an opportunity to play.
Q. Is there a sense of needing to attack more because it is there to be had?
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: Yeah, it is.  When I was playing, it's no wind, so I just try to hit more at the flagsticks.  It was working so well, my iron play is quite sharp and sharp enough to make seven birdies today.
Putter working well, and just a couple missed putts the last hole and third hole I think.
Q. Just finally, you've played two golf courses, big fairways, big greens, a different style at Carnoustie.  Is there a different mind-set to that golf course?
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: Just try to keep the ball in play.  Hopefully the wind is still not really high and keep yourself in the good position.  A lot of opportunity to putt.  Just try to keep a score.  Carnoustie going to be really tough tomorrow.
Q. You seem to play well in the Scotland?
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: Just get used to the wind.  We were lucky, the wind was not strong today.  Quite lucky with the draw.
Q. You've been doing a lot of work with Pete Cowen and Mike Walker?
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: Yeah, my coaches, we been spending almost a year and it worked out.  Last couple weeks I hit the ball solid, more greens in regulations.  Just around the greens, my chipping, putting, try to work with links golf, it quite difficult for me.  But overall, it's good.
Q. The fact that Scotland is the Home of Golf, does that inspire you a bit?
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: Of course.  Especially the Old Course at St. Andrews.  It's always a pleasure to be here.  I'm excited and try to play my best golf.  The last couple rounds I played, I shoot a lot under in St. Andrews.  I'm really pleased with myself.
Q. Apart from winning the Paul Lawrie, you've done well in a lot of events in Scotland.
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: Yeah, I spend a couple years on The European Tour and that experience bring me up to this position at the moment.  If you look back at my first year on Tour, it's really difficult to play with the wind, in links golf and cold.  It takes time.  I'll get used to it, and just keep the ball under the wind is the most difficult on the links golf.
Q. What's your best finish apart from the Paul Lawrie?
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: I think I've finished two years back on Dunhill, that's my first time I finished top five I think.
Q. You're going to be in a good position at the end today, but how much what happened at the last disappointed you just now; takes a bit of the gloss off it, you would say?
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: It's not a great finish to the round.  It's just an easy pitch.  It's not tough, even on my first putt or second putt.  But, well, I just -- well, forgot it already.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT