ABU DHABI HSBC CHAMPIONSHIP
January 22, 2017
Kiradech Aphibarnrat
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Thoughts on the final round today, coming up a bit shy?  
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: A good start, beginning of the day, jump up to the top.  Martin was doing well.  The scoring changed a lot in our group.  It was good fun.   
Tommy playing quite well, solid golf on the back.  That's the way to make the top done.  I was happy with the way I'm playing and the way to start the season.   
 Q.  After such a good start to the round, you're obviously feeling very positive going clear.  Just tell us how you're thinking after that start?  
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: Stick to my game plan, just play it shot by shot, hole-by-hole.  I'll try to look away from the leaderboard, just try to play myself, and it was good.   
 Q.  Without getting too negative, where ultimately do you think you lost the tournament?  
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: I think I don't hit the irons quite consistent that I used to do in first three rounds.  Especially the back nine.  I miss a lot of greens.  I think that's the best finish.  I hole a lot of par putts.  That's the way to keep yourself in the position.   
 Q.  What does it do going forward into the next few events, taking such a positive result here in Abu Dhabi?  
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: Keep thinking strong, and I believe that my golf game will keep improving.  Who knows, next week might be mine.   
The putting working so well, the putt I made last hole, it's not that easy.  A couple make, a couple miss, but overall, I'm really happy with the result that I start off the year.   
 Q.  You don't feel coming way from this disappointed in any way?  
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: Well, maybe a little bit disappointed.  You know, you've got a chance to be up on the top and good start on first couple holes.  But can't get anymore on the back.   
Well, if you look at a good way, best start to the season.  Hopefully I'm still striking the ball good and rolling the putter well, so who knows, I might win next week.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT