DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 20, 2015
Kiradech Aphibarnrat
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What are your thoughts on shooting this wonderful low round to suddenly find your name at the top of the board?  
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: Been a good day.  Feeling so great right now, after I seen the score and leading, but it's only two days.  Striking the ball much better than the first round, especially putting from the greens, adjust the speed much better than yesterday.  So made a lot of birdies, ten birdies.   
 Q.  So why is that?  Is it partly due to the fact that there is not the wind and the course is in such good condition first thing?  
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: The wind doesn't pick up in the morning and the green was quite nice.  But especially I can adjust the green speed and can control the lines, match with the lines, so it's much easier to putt.   
 Q.  Does this mean when you started this second day, you still thought, yeah, I've got a chance with a good low one to get amongst them?  
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: Yeah, you've still got a chance.  Of course, it's three more days, and this golf course, if you hit it solid and hole putts, you might have a really low round.  But the worst case, you're in the wrong position, you might hit a big, big number.  So a lot of chances, two more days.   
 Q.  How are your energy levels, because everybody is conscious it is the last one of the season, but therefore, it is that last one and you've got that extra energy to push?  
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: I've lost a couple energy but it's okay because this week we have Thai restaurant and I have plenty of rice and Thai food, so I can keep up all my energy.   
 Q.  And that makes you feel so much more at home and comfortable I guess.  
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: Of course, I bring a couple Thai guys over here and they have been visit and bring own food.  That is the big key; that I have enough energy to play tomorrow's round.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT