WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 28, 2019
Kiradech Aphibarnrat
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Congratulations on the victory.  If I can just get some comments on your match?  
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: I don't think we play our "A" game today.  Me and Bryson weren't playing good golf.  I think I just made one eagle whole day.  No birdies at all.  A whole couple of bogeys.  I'm saying match play it just depends on the day, especially on this golf course is really difficult.  If you put the ball in the wrong position, sometimes it's impossible to get up and down.  Match play sometimes par is good enough to win the hole.   
But I'm saying I'm really happy with the way we finish.  I got the first point.  But a lot of work that I need to do, and hopefully Bryson will be playing well tomorrow, and I'll meet him in the playoff tomorrow.   
 Q.  Having said that, what was the key, even though you said you didn't have your "A" game, what was the key to the win?  
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: I mean the keys today just about hitting to the greens.  Because the wind is really difficult and it's not easy to hit it on the greens.  The green regulation is the most important thing.  I think it's more than four or five holes I made par and win the holes.  And to keep the ball under the winds and give yourself more chance, hit it in the fairways, that is the big key for this week.   
 Q.  And Bryson has been playing really well over the last year or two, so what does that mean to you to get a victory over him?  
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: Well, for me a lot, even I'm playing my best golf and we are playing our "A" games and then I walk away with a point, I was really proud of the way I win.  But I'm saying it just depends on the last shot, I was hitting bad, poor shot right, but it kick it back on the greens.  It's match play, and golf been up and down.  Sometimes, especially this really difficult golf course you miss slightly little bit, it can cost you a lot.   
I know Bryson coming really hot form, but it's golf.  Some day you can get like bad days but then I can also get a bad day, but I try and just keep my game just on the green.  Just make par.  I know I'm not in the best form today.  So end of the day par would be good enough to take over the match.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT