BRITISH MASTERS SUPPORTED BY SKY SPORTS
October 10, 2015
Kiradech Aphibarnrat
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 12-under par, currently leading.  What are your thoughts on that round today?
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: Well, today, it doesn't have any particular good shot.  I mean, drive, hitting is good.  I made a lot of putts on the front nine but the iron play isn't sharp the first two rounds.  At the end, the last two, 17 and 16, close putt but can't make it.  Just look forward to play tomorrow.
Q. What were conditions like today?
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: Conditions were good.  Just continue to play my own games and concentrate on the game plan.  You know, just give yourself the opportunity to putt.  Keep it on the fairways and keep the ball in play and you have a chance to finish low.
Q. And exactly the same game plan tomorrow?
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: Yeah, of course.  Still if I play the first three rounds, I have a lot of chance to get the job done by tomorrow.  Just hopefully the iron play is still sharp and sink more putts.
Q. What pleased you most today, the 667 or the fact you haven't dropped a shot?
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: I just try to keep the ball in play today.  Driving much better first two rounds but iron play wasn't sharp the first two rounds.  I'm still putting well.  Today was happy to play more bogey-free.  That's the target that I make before I tee off.
Q. Is this a course where you have to be a little more patient, perhaps because of the layout of the course?
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: This, it's quite narrow, if you compare with other European Tour golf course, this course quite narrow.  So just keep the ball in play.  If you give yourself in fairway, you have opportunity to hit.  You have a chance on this course.
Q. Another 67 should see you nicely in contention tomorrow; is that the mind-set?
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: Yeah, when it was practise rounds, I just trying to caddies, 4-under every day would be good to finish in the top three.  How I've been doing first three rounds, just one more day, make 67, I think I drop down.
Q. Will you enjoy being in front tomorrow?
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: Of course, I love to be here in British, love to come back, nice weather.  People is very nice and golf course is great condition and love to be here.
Q. Can you talk us through that putt on the 14th hole?
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: Well, I also can't imagine how I can make that putt.  I keep saying, I stand there for one or two days and I don't think I can make that putt.  It's just unbelievable, the hole can stop the ball.  And then after I sink it, it's like, wow.
Q. How much of break did it have on it from left-to-right?
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: This was more than ten feet.  Then downhill, fast putt, and it's right in the middle of the club.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT