SALTIRE ENERGY PAUL LAWRIE MATCH PLAY
August 2, 2015
Kiradech Aphibarnrat
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What does it mean to you to win this great championship?  
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: Well, first of all, I have to thank all the sponsor, Paul Lawrie, and such a nice event.  My first time to be here and first time match play for this year and quite really success.  Happy with the result.  Will be a little bit excited at the end, but win is win.   
 Q.  Nice way to win, sinking a birdie putt, yes, but should be even better, making a par on the last 15, 16, should be better than this.  But last birdie good enough to hold the trophy?  
 Q.  Talk me through the final, because you were ahead and then you came back, you were ahead, came back again.  
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: I was striking the ball well.  Hitting so good on the front nine.  And then when the power gets off a little bit, I can't control the ball really the same as the first few days.  Pulled some driver but sink a lot of good putts today, especially the last hole, even though short one but it's right in the middle.   
 Q.  You were not entirely sure what to expect this week, were you?  
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: No, I didn't expect that high.  I just play until Saturday because my flight is on Monday, I can't change back to Thailand.   
And the one happy thing is next week, I've got a week off and I will look forward to have Thai food.  Miss my family and my fiancée.  So quite happy to play last week and then you go home.  So just enjoy the game, enjoy Scottish weather.   
 Q.  This is now a third European Tour victory, a second this year.  You've also won other tournaments, but they have all been in Asia.  So what does it mean to win one, not only in Scotland, but in Europe?  
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: Yeah, I'm always saying, we just little small country in Asia.  Now it's my next step to win in Europe.   
So happy and so proud of myself, and I can show them that we also can win out of Asia.  That's all I have to do.   
 Q.  You mentioned John Daly was your hero.  Was it special for him to be here this week, as well?  
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: Yeah, well, when I was a kid, I just -- my first course, want to hit as far as I can, and we adjust the target letter.  One day -- that happened, it was John Daly.  Two or three years after I play more golf, win over and over -- long backswing, and quite a big guy.  So he's one of the idols.  And just getting to study how his life going, he was win I think two, three majors, two British Open and one PGA Championship, one of the best players in the world.   
But it was my pleasure, the people in Thai, Asia, they just keep talking, like John Daly, Asia, was so proud of this name and happy with that.  Today, I have to go back long time ago, some guy just keep telling me that if you got a long backswing like this, you're growing up to be a professional.  So today, I can show them, it's not just the backswing; it's how you just hole the putts and how you just sink the balls, make low score.  That's why John can win a lot of majors.   
 Q.  Did you speak to John this week?  
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: I haven't met him this week, but we have chance to play a couple times the last two years in Thailand Golf Championship at Amata Spring.  We play first two rounds together and he's a nice guy, really nice, friendly.  And every time we meet, he just give me a shout.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT