BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 25, 2015
Kiradech Aphibarnrat
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How happy are you with that start, day one here in Munich? 
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT:   Yeah, it's my first time playing here, and the way I start the first four holes, it was a great start.   5‑under for the opening round was a good chance to be up on the top.

Q.   What in particular gives you the most satisfaction in the way you played this morning, what part of your game? 
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT:   On the front, on the back nine that I start, I hit the driver quite well and my irons quite sharp.   On the front nine, I think all holes inside 15 feet, missed a couple putts, but good start, anyways.

Q.   You said first time here.   Obviously it's a tournament well‑known for some low scoring.   How did you find conditions out there?
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT:   Well, the golf course is in great condition.   A little wet because the rain before the week start.   But they drained the water quite good.   The greens were quite tricky and fast.   Depends on the pin position.   Today, some hole is quite tough.   You have to be careful on your second shot and if you get too much spin, you can get in the water.   The way I'm playing today was good.   

Q.   You played well all season, and picking up the win at the Shenzhen International.   How pleased are you with the season overall? 
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT:   Yeah, I get a lot of confidence back after last year, I was struggling.   Changed equipment and lost my coach.   But after I win in China, big confidence back and look forward to play other great weeks.

Q.   Pleased with 5‑under par around here?
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT:   Yeah, my first time here, and the way I start the first nine, hour under, make six birdies and one bogey is solid golf.   Good start opening round.   Have a lot of chance to hang in the top.

Q.   Is it a course that favours you at first sight? 
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT:   Not really, the course is quite tight, but it's birdie game this week.   You have a lot of opportunity to make birdies.   The greens are quite soft.   Yeah, just all you need is keep your ball in the position and give you a chance at opportunity to putt.

Q.   How good are you at adapting to good circumstances? 
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT:   Well, I was in good form right now and have a lot of confidence coming to play this week.   Last week, take a week off.   My body is fresh enough.   My brain was ready for playing.   So that's going to make a good result.

Q.   Have things changed as a result of winning in Shenzhen and re‑mapping things for the season?
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT:   Like I said, I've got a big confidence coming off after the win in China.   That's a big one.   Just look forward in the season.   Hopefully I will have other great weeks and other titles.

Q.   And you do have opportunities to come to different places.   What do you make of Munich?   Have you seen any? 
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT:   No, not really.   Just hang around, from airport to hotel to, golf course, that's all we do.   Going to find some Thai restaurant tonight, have great food and sleep well. 

Q.   Presumably you're enjoying the setup. 
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT:   Yes, nice people around.   Great sponsor, BMW support all the big events, and I'm really proud to be here. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT