EURASIA CUP PRESENTED BY DRB-HICOM
March 26, 2014
Kiradech Aphibarnrat
Nicholas Fung
Kim Hyung-Sung
Thongchai Jaidee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:   Thongchai, what are your thoughts about the four‑ball or give us your views of the draw after seeing it on paper now. 
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   Yeah, it's the most important because I have to see every group, that's the most important.   And the other thing, I know that Europe is quite strong at the moment.   Our team is ready to play tomorrow.   Our team we are planning and thinking a long time, span about 12 months ago, our team.   We have a very good team right now, all the players, we have top players in the world, they have won everywhere, every tour, otherwise we have good players. 
I hope everything, our team, try to make very good points tomorrow.   It's difficult to tell everyone who is going to be winning tomorrow.   I try my best anyway, tomorrow, because it's our team, myself, working hard and you have to do it for our team and be comfortable and also try to have some points tomorrow.   I saw the match tomorrow, it's going to be very good, fun to watch, and also very excited to watch it, I think very nice and then I think a very good performance tomorrow and see, it's very, very exciting for me, time to do that. 
Anyway, nice to be here and enjoy the golf tournament and also need to win the trophy. 
CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:   Kiradech, can you talk about your partnership with Thongchai, playing against Miguel and Pablo in the first match, how important is it for you guys to have a good start in the EurAsia Cup? 
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT:   First, I have to thank Thongchai for picking me in the first match with him.   It will be a tight match tomorrow with Miguel and Pablo.   You know, Thongchaiis in the Top‑50 in the World Ranking and playing solid golf at the moment, so we have a lot of confidence to win the first match, the first point for the Asian team. 
CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:   Nicholas, playing with Kim in the fifth and final four‑ball tomorrow morning against a strong European side of G‑Mac and Jamie Donaldson.   Tell us how you feel about this draw and what are you looking forward to tomorrow? 
NICHOLAS FUNG:   When they announce the draw, I was so excited to play against G‑Mac and Jamie Donaldson. 
And you know, because he's playing so well, and all the players are on form, and of course, I am feeling good and I thank Thongchai for putting me on the last.   He wanted to kind of follow me on the last line (laughter). 
CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:   No pressure.   Kim, just talk a little about your partnership with Nicholas, I think you've spent a few days, tell us your views about your partnership against Graeme McDowell and Jamie Donaldson. 
KIM HYUNG‑SUNG:   For me it's going to be an exciting experience.   I've played in a lot of big events last year and this year, so the experience will help me to compete better tomorrow.   For Nicholas and I, we have never played or competed with each other for a while, so I think tomorrow as we play 18 holes together, hopefully it will be shorter, but as we play 18 holes, we'll mesh together and we'll have a big combination. 
So we're looking forward to playing this match with G‑Mac and Donaldson, and hopefully it's a fun match and hopefully we'll get it done in a very quick fashion. 

Q.   It's very important to get off to a fast start in team events; what would be a success after tomorrow's fourballs? 
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   I think it's very good match, everyone‑‑ in my first match and other things, you look in the match, it's very good, first one and myself and Kiradech, and Miguel is Pablo, very good. 
And the second match, represent Japan and Denmark play the same match, going to be very close.   Everyone is playing very good in form last year and this year, and Gonzo, same thing, very good match.   And then G‑Mac and Jamie and I don't think we loss in the last match because both guys play very steady but this format, you never know who is going to be wins, because look at the schedule, all the match, going to be very close.   I cannot expect we are going to be‑‑ look at hole‑by‑hole, shot by shot, it will be excited. 
I think tomorrow, the match is very close, I cannot expect how many points.   I think it will be a good chance for both teams. 

Q.   Has your experience helped in planning the campaign? 
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   I think at that time, you have to have more Koreans to do it but this time, the draw different, different draw, just like open draw, otherwise you don't know who is going to be first one in single match and also we have different players.   
I think our team at the moment, I think we have more confidence, we can see all the team work, I think very solid right now.   We have a lot of things‑‑ I play a lot of times in format like this.   I play so many times a format like this, I have more to tell my players on my team, we have to work together.   I know they understand what we want to do. 
You know, this trophy, the first time like EurAsia Cup, myself and our team, try to win the trophy.   I work very hard with all my team.   This year, different, I think it's very excited about that, anyone, win or lose, I think it's most important. 
CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:   What will be your final words to the players in the team tomorrow morning before you go out to the matches? 
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   I think my team, I like to be relaxed and we have some fun and enjoy the tough game, and also this trophy, you play well, you win the trophy.   I don't mind, that putts my players‑‑ and also I think concentrate all the games, that's the only‑‑ I think good chance at the moment for win the match tomorrow.   I think you need some points to win the trophy.   I think tomorrow, it's going to be very close.   I don't expect tomorrow‑‑ I think it's going to be close tomorrow. 

Q.   Was the rest of the team holding back in the Pro‑Am?   Were you holding back? 
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   I think it's Pro‑Am‑‑ I think watching a couple of holes, if I played it, I ask, because the Pro‑Am, we play the course, also.   I'm watching my team play yesterday, and I watch some, I think it's my team groups right now.   Everything is solid.   They recommend who they want to play with, and I think already they know who are going to be paired with whom.   I think today like practice day, they enjoy the Pro‑Am.   I don't think it's very serious today. 
I think tomorrow, very serious time.   I told all my team, we play and have some fun tomorrow. 

Q.   Kiradech, you almost pipped Henrik Stenson in the Match Play; what did you learn from that experience?   And for the captain, will your vice captain be on the tee box when four of your flights take off tomorrow, how much reliance have you on your vice captain? 
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT:   I learn a lot in the match and a lot of experience the last couple years.   I'm playing very solid golf, and a lot of confidence in the match tournament.   Hit the ball great, also make a lot of putts. 
One thing I learn‑‑ to win the match, I think what we saw after 14 holes, and then just the last couple holes‑‑ inaudible‑‑ not cool enough, but right now, I think I'm ready to play and ready to win the match. 
THONGCHAI JAIDEE:   My vice captain, he's the guy that has more experience.   I think to play well right now‑‑ I speak with him a long time, and he knows all the players.   He's talken to me many times who will be paired and then he gives me the answer, all my team working all together.   He's a guy that has most experience of all the players, and I think it's very nice to have him on our team. 

Q.   You're known as a very attacking player, does this course suit your eye and do you see a lot of birdies out there? 
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT:   The golf course does not really suit my game.   Just keep it on the fairways, but you know, the team event, Thongchai‑‑ one thing, he's always saying to stay on the game, attack the pin and make the right games and just make a lot of birdies, whatever I make‑‑ inaudible‑‑ that's very good.   I just look forward to play with him. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT