WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 17, 2014
Kiradech Aphibarnrat
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  LAURA NEAL:   We'd like to welcome Kiradech Aphibarnrat to the interview room in your very first Accenture Match Play Championship.   
I know you're excited to make it to the field.   Maybe give us some comments on playing in this tournament for the first time.  
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT:   So great.   So proud of myself to‑‑ my first time to be here.   And to play with top 64 player in the world.   It is very special.   
   
 Q.   When is the last time you played a match play tournament?  
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT:   We don't have any match play in Asia, but for my game, I think I have a chance to play a team event, and I love to play with the match play.  
   
 Q.   What was the last time you did play match play, whether it was a practice or anything, a match play‑style?  
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT:   The last time was end of last year, the Royal Trophy.   It's the team match play, but we play in the single in the last day, and was my success, I win three point off Asian team.   So I have a lot of confidence with the format.  
   
 Q.   Have you ever played in desert golf, like this?  
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT:   Long time ago, maybe it would be more than five years.   But after I hit ‑‑ I play for two rounds and the course is very nice.   Perfect.   The condition is great.   If you put on the low positions it's tough to make two putt.  
   
 Q.   Is this your first time in Arizona?  
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT:   No, I'm playing‑‑ last week I played in the Waste Management in Phoenix.  
   
 Q.   Different environment than what you're used to?  
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT:   No, it's the same, the weather, hot and humid.   Here it's a little bit dry, but I get used to the weather.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk a little bit about how you got started playing golf, what you like about it, anybody you patterned yourself after?  
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT:   I start playing golf about 8 years old with my dad.   Every day after school I have to follow him to the range, after he work.   And I'm just a kid, don't like to do homework.   And my dad saying if you love to play golf, he will help me.   So I just go straight away to hit the balls.  
I didn't like golf my first couple hours, but different like football, the ball just keep moving, you can kick it.   You can several tennis balls, but a golf ball just stand and you just hit the ball, it's tough, interesting, that's why I love it.   
   
 Q.   Any players that you've followed when you were a kid?  
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT:   It would be Tiger, the best golfer in the world.   Last few week I was like 54 in the World Rankings.   I hope to be 64, right on the number, to play with Tiger.   Even I lose, but fun to play with the top players.   And you get a lot of experience from him.  
   
 Q.   Why do you think your style is suited for match play?  
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT:   Well I have a lot of distance.   And I make a lot of birdies, I attack the pin.   So the match play you can make a lot of birdies and you can make a lot of mistakes.   But if you make birdies, it's good for the match play.  
   
 Q.   Talk about changing your name when you were younger, is that common?  
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT:   In Thailand we believe in luck.   And I can say when I was a kid in my own name I win a lot in my career.   But when I train for first year, I didn't have success at all.   We went to the temple and we believe if you got the right letter you get more luck.   And after I change I believe I got a lot of luck.   Plus I win a couple of events and had success last year, as well.   
LAURA NEAL:   Can you talk about your first round matchups?   You're going to be playing Henrik Stenson, who has won this tournament before.  
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT:   I have played with Stenson last year, after he got on fire.   He won Dubai and the FedExCup.   Such a good player.   
But I love to play with the top players, because in match play everything happens, you have nothing to lose, and try to play best as I can.   And the result, I'm happy with the result.   So whether I win or lose I'm happy to be here.   
   
 Q.   What role do you think luck plays in a tournament like this?  
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT:   The putt?   
   
 Q.   Luck.   
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT:   Yes, you need to be lucky in the match play, and this type of golf.   You hit it on, doesn't mean you can win the match.   It's tough to make par.   I can say if you play 18 par you might win the match.   
   
 Q.   Do you have any problem finding food to eat?  
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT:   No.   In the States‑‑ I've been here like four week, this is my fourth week, and easy to find Thai food, lovely.   I can eat everything.   I love steaks.   I can eat everything.  
   
 Q.   Where were you when you found out you were in?  
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT:   Last week I was spending a week in LA, with my friend's house.   And Friday night‑‑ no, maybe Thursday or Friday night was big surprise because I thought someonegoing to pull out and the numbers would be 69 or 70 enter the event.   But 67 is the last position to enter.   So I'm excited.   
LAURA NEAL:   Very good luck this week.   Thank you so much for your time.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT