DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 15, 2013
Kiradech Aphibarnrat
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Your fourth shot at the last, that was a tremendous birdie.
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT:   Yeah, just tried to chip up and make one putt, up‑and‑down, 1‑under for the round, was quite happy for me.   Very rush to chip because quite careful, the ball doesn't go in the water.   That was the rule, tell me just careful with the ball.   So was a good chip, good spin and I holed it. 

Q.   190 to 70 in the world this year.   What has been the secret to that?
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT:   I'm still working very hard, after I win my victory in European co‑sanction, I still try to do better and better, just try to hit some more balls, work a lot with my coach and my family.   So I try to be Top‑50 in the world.   That is the key to why I improve a lot this year. 

Q.   You'd better tell me about 18, because that was very special, when it looked like it could be very miserable. 
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT:   Yes, it wasn't a bad second shot, but the wind was quite strong.   That's why we cannot carry the water.   But the fourth shot, that is amazing.   Just try to get up‑and‑down, and 1‑under for the round is good golf.   But I hit good chip and it rolled on the line and I make it and it was like shock and surprise. 

Q.   Your celebration was terrific.   Are you a good dancer? 
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT:   No, I'm not dancing, never but I'm happy, everything comes out from my heart.

Q.   That was superb to see and clearly with a birdie at the last, you're nicely positioned into the weekend. 
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT:   Yes, this final event, and don't want to force myself and think about the golf.   Just enjoy Dubai and enjoy the golf course.   A lot of fan support and I've played my best golf the first two rounds.

Q.   Now that you're getting more familiar with the course here, is it something that you thought, I really like this course; I really like Dubai?
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT:   The course is very nice.   You can say the greens is great.   I roll the ball very good this week.   Just doesn't hit‑‑ just a couple mistakes on the back nine but good recover. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT