WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
October 30, 2013
Kiradech Aphibarnrat
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  CALVIN KOH:   Welcome to the HSBC champions, how do you feel coming into this week?   
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT:   From last week until this week, I just have a lot of confidence to come over in China.   I've come here to play maybe World Cup and HSBC a couple years ago.   I like the weather and the golf fans around here also applaud all the layers.   I try to be playing on my best golf and try to bring that back from the last week.   
CALVIN KOH:     Asian players like yourself are really up there now level with the world's best.   What makes you guys so good?   
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT:   Like I say, this year, I played a couple major events and a couple World Golf Championships, and that's why my game keeps improving because that's the way all the world‑class players play and learn a lot of experience.   I can follow the Asian players, if we try really hard, we can compete with the PGA TOUR players and Europe in the same level right now.   Just some mental games we have to improve a bit, but any ways, we are in the same class with all the stars.   
   
 Q.   It's been mentioned that time Thailand has become one of the strongest nations in Asia, not just foremen, but ladies golf, as well.   Is there any particular reasons that you felt about that, and is it because there's a lot of tournaments to be held in Thailand, so to help the players, or is it because with Thailand's involvement with the Asian Tour, can you elaborate about that?   
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT:   I think the fact, I think because we have a lot of events to improve the mens, and with the ladies tour, as well, it's improving, our Thai players they want to play with the world‑star players.   We have many sponsors to support us, start like teams, we have a big performance, and like we have the golf club to practise.   
I mean, that's the best, important things that we are improving, because we have more golf clubs to support the players.   
   
 Q.   I think you've played two rounds with Phil Mickelson last week, and you mentioned that he had some encouraging words for you to try and get on the PGA TOUR.   Can you talk about more of the advice and what he was saying to you?   And the second part of that is, when you played with Mickelson and the other players, what did you notice about their game that's maybe missing in yours?   What else do you need to do to become consistently a top player?   
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT:   It was a good experience for me.   Last week I played with two top players, and the way a few just try to tell me that golf should be like improving.   We are playing Asian Tour and The European Tour‑‑ it's the best tour, the golfers must be as good as.   
He was just saying wait your time, when you are ready go and try, when my game is good for PGA TOUR event.   Between our Asian players and the world‑star players, the difference is when they need to make the shot, they can do it 90 per cent.   But we like 50/50.   We are not sure that we are going to make this one.   But when they need it, all the important things are under pressure, they can make it.   That's the big difference between all of them and all of us.   
   
 Q.   First of all, from my understanding, not only with the government support but also the royal family, because they are providing great support to some of the top Thai golfers in the country and definitely with their support, you guys are getting a very good result.   So how would you rank or how did you feel, what's your take for this kind of support, not only from the government but also from the royal family to give you any kind of influence onto your game?   And right now, being one of the top golfers in the country now, how is the country treating you guys right now, and how would you comment on your performance in this year's Asian Tour?   
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT:   First of all, the royal family, they support, not just the golf, but they support all the sport in Thailand.   They want to improve all the sport in Asia, like to be in the world class.   And the government will start to help us a bit with other golf competition.   We have two or three tours in Thailand right now, and the government and sponsors help each other and that's why golf is improving in Thailand right now.   
On my form this year, I'm really proud of myself the way I've played until now.   I've got a couple of Asian Tour events, just try to play well and enjoy, if I can win a couple in the end of the year, it will be good.   
   
 Q.   In Asia, which Chinese players do you think has the most potential to shine on the biggest stage?   
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT:   I'm really good friends with Hu Mu.     We were playing a junior event together in the States, and the way he's driving the ball is still very good.   Many of China's players are improving a lot, like Wu Ashun is winning on the Japan Tour, as well.   Liang Wen‑Chong is one of the best Asian players.   The last couple years, China has improved a lot about golf.   And I think another two top players would be like Hu Mu and Wu Ashun, these two players is great.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT