CIMB CLASSIC
October 27, 2013
Kiradech Aphibarnrat
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Fantastic week of golf.   You played brilliantly.   Are you happy or are you a little bit disappointed?  
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT:   I'm very proud of the way I played this week.   My goal is like top 5 or top 10, so I'm happy enough.   The way I'm striking the ball this week is brilliant.   I haven't played this well since after I win Malaysia Open, and I have a lot of family this week, my mom, my dad, my sister and a lot of golf fans support me really well.   It feels like home, Malaysia.   I love it.  
   
 Q.   You were hitting the ball brilliantly and then the rains came when you were about to go to the 14th tee.   You looked a little bit nervous, a little edgy.   Was that break bad for you?  
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT:   Yeah, it feels bad after like the last few holes.   Like I say, I feel nervous, and front nine I played good golf, just concentrate on the greens, didn't look for the results, just tried to play my best golf.   When the back nine is come I have the chance to win.   Every time I look at a scoreboard they put a lot of pressure to me.   But anyway, I can make all par to the end, but it's quite good, I'm quite happy with the result.  
   
 Q.   You were just informed by the scorer there that you can get to play in the McGladrey Classic which is the week after HSBC.   Are you going to make take that exemption?  
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT:   I will let this thing feel‑‑ my manager decide.   Should be tough work for her.   I'll try, if I can.   
   
 Q.   Just talk about the final day, played great, right in the hunt.   
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT:   I was playing golf on the front nine, didn't have any pressure, played my own game.   The result was great, 3‑under, and after I saw my name on the top of the leaderboard, I think I pushed too much pressure on me for the back nine, tried to make a score.   I hit a lot of good shots today, made an easy bogey on 10, 11, 12, short birdie, and then 16, 17, 18 also.   Okay, I learned a lot, that when I try too much, just force myself too much, I tell myself don't mind the results, but when you have the opportunity to win this PGA TOUR event, it changes your life, changes your future.   You get two more years in PGA TOUR, anywhere you want to play.   That's why I tried to make a move on the back.   
   
 Q.   Does this week tell you now that, hey, I'm good enough to play against the best players in the world, play on the PGA TOUR?   
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT:   I cannot say I'm good enough.   I mean, I have to improve my game a lot if I want to play in PGA TOUR, play with the star players, world‑class players.   If I want to play with them, every part of my game has to be strong.   I can tell right now I'm hitting the ball really well, just my putting and my short game isn't good enough to win the PGA TOUR events.   But the way I'm doing, the way I start to do right now is on the right way.   
I just try to improve and try to play with all the top players.   
   
 Q.   This will almost help you win Asian Tour Order of Merit already.   What do you need to do for the Asian Tour season?  
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT:   Just try to come back and play more in Asia.   I mean, I really success and quite happy with the result before I play in this event, I just try to be on top of Asia players.   That will guarantee 90 percent to win the Order of Merit.  
   
 Q.   There's an opportunity for you to play on the PGA TOUR in two weeks' time, and also to pick up temporary membership, which will allow you to take sponsor's invitation.   Is that something which you will talk about with your manager?   
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT:   Yes, I do.   I think the schedule will change right now.   If I have my chance even like just 1 percent, I will try and do it, but anyway, on other tours right now, I have to play like in Dubai and Europe, and after that I will focus on my World Ranking.   If I can make the PGA TOUR Money List I'll try.   
   
 Q.   Talk about the weather disruptions.   How much did it affect you during the final round, because after that you seemed to be a little bit tentative.   
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT:   Yes.   After we stop I have a lot of things to think about and a lot of things in my mind, so that made my game struggling a bit.   Like I said, I put too much pressure to me, and it doesn't make my golf go well on a few holes, but I'm okay with that.   I loved this experience.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT