CIMB CLASSIC
October 26, 2013
Kiradech Aphibarnrat
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   69 today, one shot out of the lead.   Must have been an exciting day for you today.   Tell us about the day.   
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT:   I feel really pleased with the way I'm playing.   It was a good start, three days in a row on the front nine, but struggling a bit on the back.   Three rounds, kind of mixed golf on the back nine.   But I'm working on my putting a lot from yesterday, and that helped.   Happy with 3‑under, and just a good chance I'll catch up on the final round.   
THE MODERATOR:   A bit of an incident on the 13th hole where I think your ball moved.   Can you talk us through it and tell us what happened.  
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT:   I had my mark on the ball, and I put the ball all the way in the center.   When I walked to the ball, I only looked at the pin.   First time I looked back at the ball I see my marker not on center.   Normally it is, and I'm sure my ball is moving.   I walk in and just walk out and called the ruling, and I'm really sure that I haven't touched the club before I ball moved.   There was not any penalties or just play as it lies.  
THE MODERATOR:   Tomorrow is going to be a big, big day.   Talk about that.   
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT:   Well, I don't want to talk myself always, just try to play my game, stick to my game plans and just play on my form.   I don't would not to look at the leaders too much, so if you look at the score, maybe the results are so tough to make the score.   Just try to focus and play and enjoy golf the final round.   
   
 Q.   Once again you make Asians proud.   Is that going to be a burden for you coming for the last round tomorrow?   
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT:   I don't want to push a lot of pressure to me.   Like I say, I just want to play‑‑ have a good golf, have fun, try to do every shot the best of mine, and whether I'm going to win or I'm going to loss, if I shoot 10‑under or 10 over and I do my best things, I always accept and am happy with that.  
   
 Q.   After the 13th hole incident, was it playing on your mind the remaining holes?  
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT:   No.   I haven't had anything in my mind.   I think I got the right rules.   It's just the rule is there, as well.   But after that hole I get double on 14, it's not the problem from 13, it's just bad campaigns, bad tee shot, as well.   Like I say, 3‑under for the day is not bad.   I mean, I'm happy with that.   
   
 Q.   Will you be able to draw from any experience on the final day of the Malaysian Open to maybe help you for tomorrow's final day?  
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT:   I get a lot of experience when I win, and I can say I was happy after I hit the shot from the bunkers, and I think that I learned a lot from that event, try to be more focused at the game, walk and play in my game.   That's it.   What the result is, I'm happy with it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT