CIMB CLASSIC
October 25, 2013
Kiradech Aphibarnrat
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Kiradech, well played.   The last two days have gone really well for you.   Just tell us what has been working for you on the golf course?   
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT:   On the first two rounds I was starting great start.   Yesterday on the front nine I was 5‑under, and today the way I started the first three holes, three birdies in a row made my game easier, made my golf more easier.   It was about 1 or 2 behind the leader.   On the back nine I just forgot on the score too much.   So that made just forgot the result.   So that made the score (Indiscernible) on the back nine.  
   
 Q.   Have you enjoyed playing the last two days with Nick Watney and Phil, and shooting the better scores with them?   
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT:   Yes, I do.   I'm quite enjoying these two top players.   I can't say I was playing better than the two of them, but maybe Phil doesn't get used to the type off the grass and this type of weather, but the way he's driving the ball he is still world class players.  
   
 Q.   You said that you would take a break a week or so.   What are you doing exactly?   Is it a secret for you to perform quite well in the first two rounds?   
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT:   You mean the week off last week?   No, I don't have any secrets because last week I had my knee injury.   I just took a week off to rest my body.   Just make sure I get ready to play the big events.   The way I started the first two rounds is the result was good after I rested.   On the weekend, if the knee doesn't have any problems it should be a good result on the weekend.  
   
 Q.   Do you have any strategy for the next two rounds?   
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT:   I still stick with my game plans.   I stick with my‑‑ I don't want to be attacked too much because this type of greens this week is quite firm and the pin position is more difficult.   The rough is a lot different than we're playing in the Malaysia Open, so if you attack too much, you will get in a lot of trouble.   I just try to play easy golf and gives me a lot of chance to putt.  
   
 Q.   The way you were playing out there today, did you think about a victory in the Malaysian Open six months ago?   
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT:   Yes, I do.   After nine‑‑ no, after three birdies on the start and then I think maybe I can get my second win on this golf course.   I mean, two times in a row.   The way I'm hitting and the way I'm striking the ball is still great after this.   But sometimes, like I say, I forgot the score so the results should be not (Indiscernible).   So I missed a couple putts on the back nine.   A putt on 14, par putt, and 16, 17, kind of made a ten‑foot birdie.   But good up‑and‑down on the last, so a good finish and I'm happy with the result.  
   
 Q.   You know you won on the Asian Tour and also the European Tour and the Malaysian Open.   Is it a goal of yours now to try to win this event and get on to the PGA TOUR?   
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT:   I just try to play my best golf.   I don't want to force myself to win this event because it's not that easy to play with all the top players.   I try to finish it high on the weekend.   The thing I forgot about the Asian Tour right now is you can finish, I can say, like top 5 should be a good opportunity for me.  
   
 Q.   Being the Malaysian Open champion and staying on top of the Asian Tour Order of Merit, how does this affect you or how do you react to this expectedness?   
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT:   I was‑‑ every time I'm playing here I feel like I'm home, I guess due to the weather and a lot of fans follow and shout.   That gives me a lot of power to play in this country.   I love to come, and every time I look forward to playing here.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible) do you still reflect on your Open win, which was your first win?   
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT:   Yes, the first win in my memory, I think.   It's a good memory.   We fought that win.   I finished second maybe five to ten events, and just a couple things.   I think it's like every time I finish I missed some short putts just because something in my mind I cannot control myself.   And after I win I had success and I break everything down.   (Indiscernible).  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT