WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
October 28, 2018
Kiradech Aphibarnrat
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Happy with that?
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: Really happy with the score because the way I'm playing, it's terrible.  Seven greens in regulation all day.  Holed a lot of putts, a lot of par saves today but overall 1-under par is the best golf I can do today.
Q. You must be pleased, fourth in a row, so a great result.
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: Well, I think it's one of the good results for me, but I don't know, I think I can do better than this, if I can strike the ball better.  My iron play isn't on form, not at all.  Just try to focus on the game, keep the score and the result will be really solid.
I know myself, I don't have my A Game, even one day.  But to keep the score under the really tough conditions, when the wind picks up, this golf course is difficult.  My putting was coming back at the right time so I can hole a lot of par putts this week.  It's a big key.
Q. If it stays this way, this will be your best finish by a thank you in a WGC event.  I'm sure you're proud.
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: At the end of the day, really happy with the results.  Awful rounds.  I can say I've been playing terrible golf this week.  I hit six greens in regulation yesterday, seven today.  It's very low for my standard.  But end of the day, I just keep the score and then I'm just playing with the card in my hand.
Q. You talk about your scoring.  I'm sure a lot of Thai boys are watching you at home and the result will show.
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: Hopefully, they say the way I've been playing and the way Thongchai has been playing at the highest level, they will work hard and want to be part of the Tour.
Q. This is counting towards the FedExCup, your first season on the PGA TOUR.  How big has this Asian Swing been, especially this result?
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: It's about to pick up a top five in a World Golf Championships.  Good to pick up points before I go over to the States.
I know it's going to be a tough challenge for me, first year on the Tour and a lot of great, great players on the Tour.  Play again, all of them, I have to improve my game.  I mean, I have to improve much more than I used to do.  There's a lot of things that I have to work on still before I'm going to the U.S.
Q. After this week, I know you're going to concentrate on The Race to Dubai, but will you play in any of the U.S. events next month?
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: Well, so far, it's not on the schedule at the moment.  It depends on my team.  Have to talk with my agent and my coach and my team.  But so far, I just want to focus on The Race to Dubai.  It's going to be really tough at the end of the year, and next year, I focus on the U.S., anyway.  So I'm just going to play my best golf towards the end of the year and just let it go.
Q. For Asian fans, when will we see you back in Asia?
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: Well, I really love to come back and play on the Asian Tour.  Everyone knows that I'm born and from here.  But you know, it's a really tough schedule at the moment.
As long as you have the Asian Tour still going well, I'm sure I'll come back.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT