UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 5, 2016
D'onta Foreman
Sterlin Gilbert
Malik Jefferson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
Texas - 45, Texas Tech -37   
 Q.  What were you thinking when your shoe fell off on that big run?  
D'ONTA FOREMAN: Just go score.  I just had to finish the run.  I couldn't worry about the shoe at the time.   
 Q.  Could anybody stop you today?  
D'ONTA FOREMAN: With the O line that we had, I don't think so.  They opened up a lot of holes for me.   
 Q.  Have you ever seen a performance like this from a running back, offensively?  
STERLIN GILBERT: No, it is my first time and just really proud of our kids, proud of the guys up front and those guys paved the way.  And then D'onta is a very talented back when the ball's in his hands.  And when those holes are there, that somebody's got to take it for the yards and he's capable of doing that.  He was able to execute that today at a consistent level, a high level, but just a huge team win all three phases, everybody contributed, to come on the road, at a tough place to play, and pick up a road win.   
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  
STERLIN GILBERT: He showed up today.  He made some plays when he had opportunities, the plays that were there, and he was able to, obviously, pull in some big touchdowns for us tonight.   
So, he's a kid that really has grown and will continue to get better.  He's a young guy, just with every rep, he continues to grow and get better.   
 Q.  When were you aware of how many yards you had?  Did you have any idea during the game?  
D'ONTA FOREMAN: No, sir.  I really didn't.  It's so crazy, because the offensive line, they ask me all the time where are you at?  They want me to rush for as many yards as I can.   
So, I didn't know until after the game, before I did the field interview, and Coach Strong said 341.  And I was like shocked.  I was like, wow, I had that many yards?  He was like, yeah.  We embraced, we had a hug, I was so thankful.   
 Q.  What does that mean for you to have your name right alongside of Ricky Williams?  
D'ONTA FOREMAN: It means a lot.  I talk to Ricky after every game pretty much, and he just tells me the things that I can do to get better.  I talked to him last week, and he just told me to just keep fighting, just keep running hard.  I try to go out there and just do that again today.  So I got to text him today.   
 Q.  How satisfying is this after all those close games earlier this year, games away from home and that?  
D'ONTA FOREMAN: It's very satisfying, but it's not over, it doesn't stop here.  We got another road game coming up and then we got to take care of home field.  So we got to keep fighting, keep practicing hard, and we have been lately, so we just got to keep it up.   
 Q.  You have your roots in west Texas.  What does it mean to come back to west Texas and put up video game numbers like you guys did today?  
STERLIN GILBERT: Yeah, it's always good to come home.  But it was huge.  The reason we showed up out here was to get a win and that's what we were able to accomplish today.  So, that's the best part of the trip.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
STERLIN GILBERT: Just coming downhill, and then we needed to pick up the first down and we weren't able to do that.  Just get big and come downhill and that's what we did and we didn't execute at times.   
 Q.  What did his text say?  
D'ONTA FOREMAN: The one from Ricky?  He just told me to keep working.  He been telling me that I'm a really good back and just to keep working.  So that is pretty much our conversation that we have.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
MALIK JEFFERSON: I had no idea he even had 300 yards.  When you see the guy running down the field all game, it's just so impressive and we're always -- he says the O line is always on him, we're always on him as well, because we know what he can do.  So he's taken this offense to a different level, and he's going to keep taking it to the highest it is.  We're very proud of him and how he finished the game.   
 Q.  You didn't start last game, but it probably ends up being your best game of the season.  You're all over Mahomes today.  Just talk about what's happened the last few weeks.  
MALIK JEFFERSON: You just got to humble yourself.  In those situations you got to keep fighting with any adversity.  You don't give up.  There's a lot of competition on that field and I understood and I accepted it and I went to go play my role.  And when I got back in, I knew I had to play something different and so it's a very humbling experience and I really appreciate it.   
 Q.  Do you think you played better that game than this game?  
MALIK JEFFERSON: Yeah, it humbled me.  You know, I just got to go back to my roots.  I had a long talk with mom and that always makes you feel a little special.  So I can definitely say my parents and God have helped me out during this whole process.   
 Q.  Malik, do you think this feels different than last week, the win this week?  Does this feel different in any way?  Any kind of corner in any way turned?  
MALIK JEFFERSON: I think this is just us.  We had the flukes, we beat ourselves up those other games, and I don't think that we're at that level any more.  I think we want to play for each other.  You can see it today.  When the offense failed, we battled back.  When we failed, they battled for us.  And that's the thing that we're always going to be a team and we're never going to give up on one another.   
 Q.  Charlie mentioned to us that he had the utmost confidence in you on that last drive.  Did he tell y'all that and what was your approach going out there for that last series?  
MALIK JEFFERSON: He tells us that every day.  If the offense scores enough points, the defense should stop them.  And I'm proud of those guys, we all stepped up and did our jobs and took care of business.   
 Q.  On the play you got almost got in for a touchdown and then they back it up by running for a hundred yards.  What did you think watching that?  
D'ONTA FOREMAN: I was pretty upset.  I felt like I probably should have just went down.  Maybe we would have went for it again, I probably could have scored on the next play.  But in the moment I was just trying to keep fighting for the extra yard, trying to get into the end zone.  But, honestly, I wish I could take it back, but I can't.  So I knew I had to go out there and just make up for it and come back in the second half and make up for it and that's what I did and I'm proud of that.   
 Q.  Did you feel it coming out?  Did you feel it --  
D'ONTA FOREMAN: Honestly, like I was just trying to reach for it and by that time he just pulled it from me.  So there was really no excuse.  Like I said, I just had to make up for it and I feel like we were able to do that.   
 Q.  There was a moment though that when this game could have gone a different direction.  How was this mental process of getting over that?  What did you see from the guys during that?  
D'ONTA FOREMAN: Everybody knows that it's a long game.  We can't, I fumbled before in other games and I tried to make up for it.  And my teammates, they believe in me, so after having them told me like, you're going to go out there and you're going to take one to the house, so just don't worry about it.  And with that reassurance, I really appreciate those guys today.  So just -- - and I was upset about it when I came in the locker room, but they told me, just let it go, you're going to go out there and make up for it.  And then I go for 70, whatever yards.  So like I said, I just thank those guys, thank the O line just for their encouraging words.   
 Q.  After this crazy play, you guys kind of put on a 10-0 run to finish the half.  How important was it to respond to that?  
STERLIN GILBERT: Yeah, absolutely, just like the word these guys been using is battle.  That's what our kids did, they went back and responded, they went back and battled and were able to go get points and execute.  It was huge.   
 Q.  How have you seen this team grow in the last couple weeks?  
MALIK JEFFERSON: It starts in practice.  We have been practicing a lot harder and getting on each other.  I think that it's, we always say we have those little shoots in our foots, but I think a lot of guys are understanding that, when one messes up, we all got to fix it.  And that's been a huge part of getting this team back on track.   
 Q.  What's probably going to get lost today is Shane's play, especially the two touchdown passes to Kyle.  What did you think about how he handled that pressure and specifically those two catches?  
STERLIN GILBERT: Yeah, those two catches were huge, those two throws were accurate throws.  Just steady growth and improvement with him.  Go back and evaluate and watch film tomorrow and see everything.  But just, again, just growth with him, he'll continue to get better.  Like I said, it was a huge team win, to be able to come on the road in a tough environment, a tough place, and to come away with a win, and being able to do it by contributing, people contributing from all three phases.  So really excited and proud of our kids for the way they fought and battled today.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
STERLIN GILBERT: Like I said, when you got a guy that's able to produce as he is, and when the ball's in his hands and you got an offensive line that can be physical and come down hill at people it's just a part of our offense and a direction that we have been able to go because of the talent that D'onta provides and what he does with the ball in his hands.  So it's, we're obviously excited that he's on our football team.   
 Q.  Malik, Charlie said that he didn't mind the offense not scoring, because he kind of wanted it to come down to the defense.  What did he say before y'all went out for that last drive?  
MALIK JEFFERSON: I don't think I was near him.   
 Q.  What was the mindset though of the team?  
MALIK JEFFERSON: That's always it.  We already knew we have to finish every time and we stayed ready this whole game, no matter what.  But that's what we always preach, it will come down to us.  If they have enough points, then we should win.   
 Q.  Your message you say is you want your guys to battle, battle, battle.  Are you seeing that more and more?  
STERLIN GILBERT: Yeah, absolutely.  Just take the last two weeks, the last two Saturdays, and our guys have, they have put that out there.  They put that out there for us to view and for everybody to view.  That's one thing they have done.  They have responded, they have fought through adversity.  We have had ups, we have had downs, and we have been able to overcome.  But that's the growth of our football team and the direction that we're heading.   
 Q.  Did you see something in the Tech defense that you thought there were throws you could make there?  
STERLIN GILBERT: Yeah, we did.  We saw something that we liked and you know they were able to make some plays, too.  So, next time we got the ball, we decided to go down a different path.   
 Q.  How excited was Chris after he made that interception?  
MALIK JEFFERSON: It was a breath of fresh air for me.  I was relieved to get off that field.  We stepped up to the challenge and I'm so proud that our whole scheme worked.  That, whenever the ball was in the air, they went to go get it, especially at a time like that where it's very crucial and just to have a closer like that it's a special feeling and I'm very proud that they battled with me.   
 Q.  What's the confidence level of the defense right now getting stops like that at the end of the game?  
MALIK JEFFERSON: It just comes from grit.  Everybody has that attitude where they want to go stop 'em.  When it's time to stop 'em, we stop 'em.  There was little mistakes throughout the field, but our key goal is not to let them in the end zone and so we do whatever it takes to not make sure they get in the end zone.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT