THE PRESIDENTS CUP
November 19, 2011
Hunter Mahan
David Toms
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Came back after falling yesterday, they put you together again, and they put you together for the third straight day and played well.   
 DAVID TOMS: Foursomes is a good format for Hunter and I. We try to hit it on the greens, make a few putts, and the limited number of mistakes and you put the pressure on the other team. That's what we were able to do. They made a couple mistakes the last couple of holes and we were able to close it out early.  
  
  Q. What was it like playing today versus yesterday with the wind was pretty crazy; obviously the course is softer, but still dealing with wet clubs.   
 DAVID TOMS: It was a lot easier to play golf today, even though you had a little bit of rain to deal with, but it wasn't too bad and the golf course was obviously more receptive, easier to hit the fairways, easier to hit the greens, greens were not quite as speedy, so overall a better day for scoring.  
  
  Q. And you guys on the regular PGA TOUR, play in rain about probably 25 percent of the time anyway, so certainly used to that.   
 DAVID TOMS: It's no big deal. You just keep your clubs, grips dry, try to keep your ball dry. Your caddie knows the routine. You know the routine. It's going to be kind of a long day and you just go out there and play golf.   
  
  Q. You got put together again and rebounded with a nice win.   
 HUNTER MAHAN: Yeah, David and I are very similar in our styles and our games, and you know, in this format, it's all about mistakes and on this golf course, it's all about mistakes and we just didn't make many mistakes. Kept the pressure on them, hit a lot of fairways and greens and made it easy on ourselves.   
  
  Q. Is this format good for you guys, because you have not necessarily similar games, but both hit a lot of fairways and greens?   
 HUNTER MAHAN: Yeah, we have the same temperament and on-course demeanor. It's a tough golf course. Pars are great. The way it's playing everything and, it's not easy, so put the ball in play, you make a lot of pars out here, you're going to do well.   
  
  Q. Tiger and Dustin, you guys emerged victorious 3 & 2 over Adam Scott and K.J. Choi. But it wasn't a match about ball-striking -- prior to the last putt you holed, you didn't make 1-over five feet between the two of you; true?   
 TIGER WOODS: Very true. It was a day of patience. The weather was kind of iffy and the greens are another different speed to them; three days, three different speeds. They gave us some pretty tricky pins out there, and just had to be patient.   
 I felt like Dustin and I were hitting the ball well, just keeping a lot of heat on them and eventually one should fall. Unfortunately it was not till the last hole.   
   
    
  
   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT