TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP BY COCA-COLA
September 24, 2011
Hunter Mahan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Hunter, nice round. Just get some comments. 
 HUNTER MAHAN: Yeah, it's pretty crowded up there right now on the leaderboard, so it was nice to make some birdies, make an eagle on 9 was obviously huge. Maybe the biggest -- making a good putt on 11 for birdie and then coming back and making an up-and-down on 12 was big, kind of saved the momentum a little bit. 
 But hit a lot of good shots, and then it was a little cherry on top with the birdie on 18. 

 Q. You're hitting a nice draw in the fairway. Is there something technically different you've done between this week and last week?
 HUNTER MAHAN: Yeah, it's pretty simple, just trying to square up the club face at impact. I just wasn't squaring it up like I needed to. Everything was good, positions were fine, I just needed to square it up and trust it at impact. It wasn't far off. My shots weren't -- they just weren't turning over; they were kind of starting in the right place but not drawing. But Foley came down and we kind of worked on it. The feels are better, and it's kind of coming around.

 Q. You said earlier this week that there was a lot going on last week, you had a lot on your mind. Did you feel sort of more free playing this week?
 HUNTER MAHAN: Yeah, it's a stressful week, the FedExCup Playoffs. Where I was, I was kind of teetering on staying in the top 30 or not, so trying to focus and grind on that, then trying to make The Presidents Cup team, and the way guys were playing, they bunched it up there kind of 8 through 12. It's a lot to think about. I was trying to play as hard as I could and luckily made it on points and felt like I freed myself up a little bit this week. I really have nothing to lose, so trying to be aggressive and trying to have some fun and pretty much let everything go.

 Q. You've played yourself into contention not only at this tournament but in the FedExCup. How do you weigh each one in your mind when you're out there on the course? 
 HUNTER MAHAN: I honestly haven't thought about the FedExCup at all. There's so many crazy scenarios that have to happen for me to win. I could win by ten shots tomorrow and still finish fifth on the FedExCup. You just don't know. There's too much to consider. I'm just trying to win the TOUR Championship this week, and that's all you can do. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT