WGC CADILLAC MATCH PLAY
April 30, 2015
Hunter Mahan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Another win and I don't know if it's as easy as the scores indicate.   Ben was never able to catch you?
HUNTER MAHAN:   Played okay for the first five.   Ben struggled and was able to take advantage of that.   Made some good par putts, got up and put the pressure on him, I think.   And I need a little bit better speed with the putter today and I would have made a few more putts.   Always good to get a W here.

Q.   Just thoughts on the way you are playing right now.   You are 2 & 0, certainly looking strong.   You control your own destiny as you go to Friday?
HUNTER MAHAN:   I'm excited about how I'm playing.   I enjoy this golf course.   Enjoy the format.   Looking forward to tomorrow.   Still got to win.   Still got to win all your matches no matter what.   It's a fun and exciting thing, and I'm looking forward to playing Matt tomorrow.

Q.   Your reaction to the move to Austin next year?
HUNTER MAHAN:   I'm excited about it.   I think it's going to be a great tournament.   Austin is a great city.   I think it's a great lineup of events with Houston‑‑ with match play, Houston and then Augusta.   It's a great string of events there for all of the players. 
It's a bummer to leave San Fran.   It's one of my favorite cities.   Great golf town, great golf courses.   They've got a great sponsor now in Dell.   Looking forward to it.

Q.   How many times have you played?
HUNTER MAHAN:   Match play? 

Q.   Austin Country Club?
HUNTER MAHAN:   It's been a long time.   As a junior, I played a tournament there.   I won there as a junior.   It's fun.   It will be cool to go back and have some old memories there and stuff.   It's a great town.   Players are going to love it.   It has a great home.

Q.   What age were you?
HUNTER MAHAN:   15.

Q.   Best score there, if you can remember?
HUNTER MAHAN:   I don't know.   I think I shot like 67, 68.   Had a terrible first day and played well after that.

Q.   Favorite part of the course?
HUNTER MAHAN:   Favorite part of the course, they are going to flip the nines.   And the back nine which used to be the front nine, it goes on the river there.   It's just breathtaking, beautiful views.   Every hole is going to be a match play kind of course.   You can do a lot there.   Really good holes, some challenging sinkholes, a great variety.

Q.   How difficult is it?
HUNTER MAHAN:   It's been a long time since I playedit.   I was only 15 at the time.   I don't know how hard it will be, but I think it will be a great match play course. 

Q.   After 7 & 4 yesterday, 5 & 3 today.   You are making this look very easy.   How does it feel to you?
HUNTER MAHAN:   Good timing.   My guys are‑‑ I got lucky a couple of times.   The guys had some rough starts so I was able to get ahead.   From there, just kind of put the pressure on them, hit a lot of greens.   And they missed some key putts.   I was able to roll in a few.

Q.   You haven't lost a single hole yet?   How nice is it to be stress free?
HUNTER MAHAN:   That's lucky to say the least.   It doesn't feel stress free when you are out there.   It's definitely been easy.   Some good play and a little bit of luck.   I do love this format and this golf course, so I'm excited about what I'm doing right now.

Q.   In terms of your own play, has something clicked?
HUNTER MAHAN:   No.   You keep putting in work.   You keep grinding each day and try not to worry about it too much.   Just focus on what you can do and what you can control at that present moment.   I feel like I'm better than the beginning of the year.   I just want to keep improving.

Q.   Matt Kuchar tomorrow, another former champion.   Your thoughts on that one?
HUNTER MAHAN:   Looking forward to it.   I took Matt one year and then he took me the next year in the finals.   I'm looking forward to it.   Should be a fun match.   Great guy to play with.

Q.   You've really played well.   You haven't lost a hole.   When you step on the grounds here, did you sense that you had complete control of your game?
HUNTER MAHAN:   I felt good.   I decided to come here and play this golf course again.   I love this format.   Comes at a good time of year for me for some reason.   I feel like my game is in good order right now.   You get a little bit lucky in match play.   Sometimes your opponent doesn't have their best.   As an opponent, you have got to take advantage of that and put the pressure on them.

Q.   What your strengths as a match play player?
HUNTER MAHAN:   Just not giving holes away, putting the ball on the fairway, and the green.   Making sure they have to make birdies to beat you.   I've done a good job of that this week.

Q.   What do you like about this golf course?
HUNTER MAHAN:   Everything.   It's pretty.   It's a lot of great holes.   They are just shaped very well.   You can just see the kind of shot you need to hit.   It's tight enough to where it's penalizing off the tee.   You can hit good shots and make a lot of birdies. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT