TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP BY COCA-COLA
September 22, 2011
Hunter Mahan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   HUNTER MAHAN: Got to put the ball in play. You don't want to be hitting out of the rough too much out here. You can't control your distance, and that's huge out here, to control your distance around these greens and give yourself some good looks. Hit a lot of good shots and was able to make a few putts.   
  
  Q. I know you were just asked about working with Sean yesterday. Was that in reaction to how you've been swinging it lately or did you guys always plan on getting together and working this week?  
 HUNTER MAHAN: It was a little bit of a reaction. I just -- it's not far off, but I just was losing the feel so I didn't know quite how to turn the ball over again since I've been a drawer my whole life. I'm doing it a new way, and so the feelings kind of go away sometimes. So it's good that he was here and kind of worked a few things so I kind of have a direction. I kind of know what I need to do. As long as I feel like I know what I need to do, I can kind of fix it and maintain it on the course.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about your thought process there hitting out of the water on 17?   
 HUNTER MAHAN: Just trying to hit it out of the water clean, put it back in play somehow. You know, about half the ball was up. To drop it, hit it out of the rough was going to be pretty tough to hold that green. It was just going to add some more problems, so the closer I could get to the hole was going to be kind of the play. Luckily enough, the water was low enough that we could kind of hit it out.  
  
  Q. Did you have any second thoughts on hitting it out, and what was your concern? Was that stump in the way at all?  
 HUNTER MAHAN: No, I was pretty lucky. I had a pretty clean shot. You've just got to hit down on it. It's a shot that we don't hit, so it's a new sensation, new feeling there kind of hitting it out of the water. I just knew I had to get it out. If I could get it up and out and anywhere in the fairway or something, it was going to be fine, and I could give myself a chance.  
  
  Q. So much focus this week going on the FedExCup and the top 5 guys controlling their own destiny, do you feel like it's an advantage for guys like yourself who can slide under the radar?   
 HUNTER MAHAN: No. You know, they probably have more to think about and stuff, but, you know, golf is -- you can't control what anybody else does; you can only control what you can control. Those guys can only play as good as they can and hope for the best.   
 I'm trying to get one good round and then get two and get three and then hopefully four. I'm just trying to hit good shots really right now.   
  
  Q. Talk about sort of the psychology of a par save and what that does to a round.   
 HUNTER MAHAN: Yeah, if you're in trouble on a hole, kind of hitting it everywhere, make a 15-footer for par or something like that, it's a huge momentum boost just because you feel like you can get up-and-down from kind of anywhere, especially when you're hitting it good and maybe not getting anything out of it. To make that one big par save can kind of turn the tide a little bit. You can kind of pump yourself up after something like that. Psychologically you can definitely benefit from a big par save.  
  
  Q. Does it almost seem like that stroke counted more than the birdie?  
 HUNTER MAHAN: No, the birdie definitely meant more.   
  
  Q. Talk about 18.   
 HUNTER MAHAN: Yeah, good way to finish. Pretty straightforward shot. I hit it up and let it kind of run to the hole. It was pretty flat right there, but good way to end the round.  
  
  Q. All in all a good day for you from start to finish?  
 HUNTER MAHAN: Yeah, I had a good start, got a lot of good looks and made some putts. It can be difficult out here.  
  
  Q. I saw Sean working with you yesterday on the range. Did you implement anything that you changed perhaps today, or were you just tweaking?  
 HUNTER MAHAN: Yeah, we've got some work to do. We had some feels to correct. They carried over to today, and just got to keep doing it.  
  
  Q. I know you weren't happy with the way you played last week. Today makes it all feel better, though; I can hear some confidence in your voice.   
 HUNTER MAHAN: Well, it's one day. I need three more. I still have a lot of work to do. I'm not near where I want it to be, but it has a direction and I feel like I know what I need to do.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT