FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
January 29, 2011
Hunter Mahan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Hunter, not particularly an amazing day for fairways and greens, but a darn good scoring day?
 HUNTER MAHAN: Yeah, it's been great off the tee, and I hit the fairways here. Had a tough time on the greens, but made some big putts. Big putt on 17, but got lucky there and got it.

 Q. Got yourself into the hunt. How hard was this golf course today some?
 HUNTER MAHAN: It was difficult for as great as the weather is. I remember the first hole I hit a chip-in and it hit and it bounced. I mean, it bounced like a trampoline, and I think everybody in the group was like, oh-oh. That's interesting. So we had to kind of adjust from there.

 Q. Did you have to play for that all day long and say, okay, maybe I've got to play it short because things are going to bounce? 
 HUNTER MAHAN: For sure. The scoring was so good the first few days on the South, that I think everyone thought we're not going to shoot two or three under to stay in the hunt. 
 I realized that you just had to stay patient and take advantage of the opportunities.

 Q. And you did stay patient and you took advantage. How about that second at 18? Tell us about it?
 HUNTER MAHAN: Yeah, 242 to the hole. A perfect lie, perfect for my 5-wood. Made a really good swing at it, and came off extremely high which is nice for that pin. And what can I say, got a good bounce.

 Q. You kind of hung around and got through the toughness and came in with some great plays on 17 and then on 18. How did you manage to hang in and put yourself back in the competition there? 
 HUNTER MAHAN: Actually the first few holes, I realized how tough the course is playing. The wind was picking up a little bit, and the greens were extremely firm. So patience is going to be the key today and timely putting.

 Q. How do you tell yourself to be patient when you're out there and you see what's going on with the other guys? 
 HUNTER MAHAN: I just realized there are a lot of holes. We've got 18 left. And you can almost birdie any hole out here because the greens are running so pure, so you've just got to stay patient and keep swinging.

 Q. What will you have to do tomorrow? What is the game plan that you take in? The course is a little difficult and you've got to make up a couple shots. 
 HUNTER MAHAN: Play extremely patient. Make one shot at a time, and you never know what can happen, especially here on 18 with an eagle possibility. So you've got to play 18 holes here and just hope for the best.

 Q. I'm guessing this might be a little similar that the fairways are running and the greens are hard. 
 HUNTER MAHAN: 100%, you've got to pick your spots out there, and you've got to be extremely patient. You can't get too excited about a pin because you can hit quite a few good shots and have them bounce over the green and just get a nasty up-and-down. So you've got to be aggressive when it's there, and be patient when it's not.

 Q. You've been a married man for how many days now? 
 HUNTER MAHAN: Fourteen, our two-week anniversary.

 Q. Where'd you go, what all -- I heard about the bachelor party, but I don't know where you did the ceremony?
 HUNTER MAHAN: Yeah, in Colleyville, Texas. We had a lot of out of town guests so it was easy for everybody to get there.

 Q. Where did you go for the honeymoon? 
 HUNTER MAHAN: Aspen, Colorado.

 Q. What did you do? 
 HUNTER MAHAN: We tried to ski. I'd never skied before, so got through, no bruises. Obviously, I ate it a few times, but I got better. I got better at it. It was a lot of fun, and we really enjoyed it.

 Q. It's risky for a guy in your profession to do something like that for the first time. Phil broke his leg one year. 
 HUNTER MAHAN: I guess so, but I want to live my life. I don't want to be too careful about things. I want to experience a lot. And I think that will make me a better golfer, I think, and better player. Just kind of experiencing life. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT