SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 3, 2015
Hunter Mahan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Hunter Mahan, 4-under, 68 in the second round.   Got to be happy with that score.
HUNTER MAHAN:   For sure, yeah.   Feels good.   Two off the lead.   Got two days to go.   Lot can happen, and I feel comfortable out there and feel good about this golf course.

Q.   Pretty good grouping you had, Phil is leading.   Did you feed off that excitement?
HUNTER MAHAN:   I always love playing with Phil.   He's a good person to be around.   I love the way he plays, his energy is fantastic and Patrick was rolling in putts.   We had a great vibe kind of all the first two days, and when you see a few putts go in, it makes it easier to kind of roll in the next one.

Q.   You're from in area of the country, you're used to these kind of conditions where it gets hot, muggy or windy as it was yesterday.
HUNTER MAHAN:   Yeah.   We don't get this much humidity up north, but it is -- it's -- the course is in great shape.   The weather has been fantastic.   Better than the forecast predicted for the week.

Q.   Have you done anything with President Bush, I mean being with Phil, have you played with President bush here before?
HUNTER MAHAN:   I never played with him.   He's come out to the Presidents Cup and met him a couple times coming out here and stuff like that.   We had a brief conversation.

Q.   Does that ever get old, leader of the free world is out watching golf?
HUNTER MAHAN:   I got to meet Clinton, got to meet Obama this year.   Spent time with 43 and 41.   It's been cool to meet four presidents and pretty -- it's crazy what this game has kind of provided and given me an opportunity to meet so many cool people.

Q.   Did you ever play golf with 43?
HUNTER MAHAN:   No.   Tried to hook up -- we haven't scheduled any time.   I know he plays a lot of golf.   Haven't had that opportunity yet.

Q.   Something that's never worked out?
HUNTER MAHAN:   Just haven't done it yet.

Q.   What's changed for you this week that allowed you to put some good scores together?
HUNTER MAHAN:   Just a continuation I've been putting in good work and trying to get better and trying to get some good feel so I can get some confidence on the golf course, and I feel like I haven't been far away.   I just -- like two days is good, the other two isn't so good.   It's a tough Tour and got the play four good rounds of golf.   It feels better, feels more comfortable out on the golf course.   More worried about hitting good shots and less worried about where I don't want to hit it.

Q.   Is there a stretch where the confidence -- are you kind of regaining confidence?
HUNTER MAHAN:   I think no, not too much.   I think it's just -- you know, I didn't prepare for the year like I needed to and I was having a baby in February.   Had a decent off-season.   And I just -- I didn't work it the right way.   I didn't practice when I should have and taking the time off.   And then it's hard to get momentum.   I played a week, week off.   I just feel like I haven't gained any rhythm because when I do feel like I'm close, I have to go home.   I don't say I have to go home.   You like to keep some rhythm up and keep working and get on the golf course over and over again.   I haven't been able to do that.   That's no one's fault.   I didn't prepare for the year like I probably needed to. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT