THE RYDER CUP
October 4, 2010
Hunter Mahan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Take me through the match, obviously high emotions.   
 HUNTER MAHAN: Yeah, it could be a match nobody knows about or the biggest match of your life. It comes down to a big match. I think probably around 10, we started to think that it could come down to us. The guys made -- for about four or five holes, played a great stretch, the matches were 1-down or 1-up. Rickie, I don't know how he did it, but getting it all squared was huge. Gave me a chance.   
 It was a tough match. I hit it unbelievable today. I hit it so good. I just couldn't make a putt. Graeme played extremely solid. 16 was a perfect hole, just drove it down the middle. I don't know what he hit in there but he made a great putt.   
 You know, it's going to be tough to go back-to-back, he played for two days, but he put it out there. So I think you have to give your hat off to them, they played better than us. We just had a tough session where we only got half a point and that was really tough to come back from. They played well top to bottom.   
  
  Q. Two years from now, it's going to be a critical point again and no doubt you would want to be the 12th guy, you would want to do it again?  
 HUNTER MAHAN: Yeah, with all of the people -- I don't know if I'll ever see that again no matter where we go. It was really, really neat. That's what the Ryder Cup gives you, it gives you moments like that and stuff like that. And whatever happens, it happens. I know that it will make me a better player, because there's not a scenario where I'll ever see that again I don't think.   
 I mean, I don't think less about my game or anything like that. And The Ryder Cup means a lot to everybody. And it means a lot to me.   
  
  Q. Major championship, how does it compare?   
 HUNTER MAHAN: It compares -- I mean, it compares, but you're trying to win it for yourself, and the spectators are just rooting on golfers, but here, they are root on a whole side and you can feel it. You feel like you're playing everybody. So it's like one man. So that's kind of the difference is you're competing, you know, just for yourself and here you're competing for everybody you know.  
 It was a lot of fun to be in that position.   
  
  Q. In Louisville, I see the videos of you rocking and rolling, and you've been able to take both sides, what it means to be in team golf; am I correct about that?  
 HUNTER MAHAN: The Ryder Cup brings stuff out of you that you don't know you had, from an emotional sense, from a golf sense, and that's what personal about it. You know, I don't think people give us credit for how much we actually care about it. It's not fun to lose in this event. It's not fun to watch them parade around and get a victory in their home place.   
 But it is a great -- it is one of the best events in the world, just because of what -- because it's different than what you usually do, and what you're playing for and, you know, I mean, 16, just everybody there, is just the same.   
  
  Q. You certainly saw obviously the passion that they had, and now we all understand America has the passion, too. Nothing surprising.   
 HUNTER MAHAN: Yeah, I mean, if you were inside the team all week, you would know how much this means to us. This is every few years, and we don't get together like this that the often.   
 I think we are starting to realise how special it is to be around one another this much and get to know each other and really realise, you know, how much fun we can have together. It's fun to be in that scenario instead of being competitors all the time.  
  
  Q. It will be a boost for you as I'm sure others who have been in this position before.   
 HUNTER MAHAN: Yeah, it's a great learning experience, for one. I take a lot for myself. I'm disappointed now, but it's not something I'm going to be disappointed with for long.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT