WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 8, 2010
Hunter Mahan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. On that front nine what was going through your mind? What were you thinking and feeling at that stage?
 HUNTER MAHAN: I felt great. I hit a ton of fairways, was giving myself great looks. I left a couple of out there actually on the front nine, I was hitting it so good. I knew I had a chance. Not making bogeys on a Sunday is a good feeling.

 Q. What was the target coming in?
 HUNTER MAHAN: I was thinking about 62. If I could get to 13 or so, that would give me a chance to win. When you feel a little bit of pressure -- I got some interesting holes on the back nine there where you've got to make sure you don't make doubles or anything like that, it gets a little tight. So I was happy to get in with what I did.

 Q. Second shot on 16 sails over the grandstand. What was going through your mind?
 HUNTER MAHAN: I was curious where it was because I just pushed it out to the right, but I think I was all jacked up and flew everything, and I just had no idea where it was. I really had no idea. And luckily the fire official stopped it. 

 Q. What about the ruling you got down there? Were you certain of the ruling when you got to the position?
 HUNTER MAHAN: Yeah, the guy was already down there. He said it was all cart path so we had to move it. Actually it took less time than I thought. I thought we were going to be out there for about 30 minutes figuring out what to do, so it was nice.

 Q. How much pressure did you feel coming down the last few holes?
 HUNTER MAHAN: Yeah, I was nervous. I wanted it so bad and I was playing so good. I just didn't want to make any bogeys. I didn't want to give them any momentum out there. If I could get some pars, I figured that would at least give them a number to shoot for.

 Q. It's not over yet, but if you were to go on and win this thing, what would it mean to you?
 HUNTER MAHAN: Well, the best players in the world are here, a beautiful golf course and a very tough golf course. It would mean a lot. I mean, this is really one of the bigger tournaments of the year.

 Q. What are you going to do next?
 HUNTER MAHAN: Probably watch Ryan on 17 and see what happens. 

 Q. I saw you on the range this morning and you were hitting it so good and you obviously took it on the golf course with you. 
 HUNTER MAHAN: Yeah, I was swinging it great. My teacher and I have been working on some stuff and things were getting better the last few weeks, and it was nice it came together this weekend.

 Q. Every iron shot was crisp and then some adventurous holes there, 15, 16 and 17. Were you a little nervous?
 HUNTER MAHAN: Oh, I was definitely nervous. You're figuring out what not to do and just trying to make good golf swings. I didn't take a terrible golf swing on 16, just flew everything and ended up in a bush. Luckily I got a drop and got out there and luckily I didn't make any bogeys. I didn't want to give them any momentum out there.

 Q. That's about as solid a round as you've had. It must feel great. 
 HUNTER MAHAN: Yeah, every shot, every club I seemed to have was a good number. I hit the driver great out there. You've got to hit fairways. I had a ton of good looks today.

 Q. You move into the top 10 in FedExCup points. What does that mean to you? You're moving up a lot of lists. 
 HUNTER MAHAN: Well, it means a lot. This is the time of year where you've got to play well and a lot of good things can happen. I'm excited about where I am and excited about the next month or so.

 Q. When you think about a 64 in the final round at Firestone, what does that mean?
 HUNTER MAHAN: Well, it's a lovely afternoon, so it means a lot. I felt like my game was ready. I felt like I was really sharp in a lot of areas. It feels great to be here on Sunday and hit some of the shots that I needed to hit. 

 Q. What did it feel like out there?
 HUNTER MAHAN: It felt great. I was hitting it sharp all week. I knew if I could get some pressure on them and get some momentum on my side early, maybe I could make a push for the lead and make something happen the last few holes. I got hot on that front nine. It feels great to win a tournament like this, the best players in the world are here.

 Q. Almost felt a little bit like the Waste Management. You weren't doing much the entire week and you sneak up there on Sunday. Is it a more comfortable position for you to win when you're not in that final group or maybe the second to last group, or do you prefer to be?
 HUNTER MAHAN: Well, I had a few shots to make up, but on a golf course like this a few shots is almost nothing. If you get hot for a few holes, you just never know what's going to happen. It feels great to get it in the way I did. 

 Q. This would solidify your spot inside the top 8. How good does it feel to get on that team and earn your way on. 
 HUNTER MAHAN: It's a great feeling. That's the goal of everyone, all Americans, to get in there and make the team. I've been a captain's selection three times and it's kind of nerve-wracking because you've got to play kind of beyond what the limits are and you've got to play well. There's so many great players in the mix right now. I think there's ten guys, at least ten guys for four spots. I feel great that I jumped in the top 8 and hopefully this will solidify my spot in there.

 Q. If you remember back after you won at Hartford and you won at Scottsdale, can your game translate the following week right after a victory? Have you learned something from those two wins that you'll apply next week?
 HUNTER MAHAN: Yeah, a major is always different. You feel it when you get there. I'm going to enjoy this as much as I can and just forget it and try to move on. I'll try and enjoy it when I go home after the PGA. Right now I'm going to enjoy this and then make sure I forget it and I don't want to talk about this week after Monday and get working because it's a heck of a challenge next week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT