MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 10, 2010
Hunter Mahan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. What was the difference today?  
 HUNTER MAHAN: Just made some putts, got a little momentum early. Gave myself a lot of good looks. Nothing really different.  
  
  Q. When you see the last putt at the last hole, ten feet, when you finish a round like that when putting is so key, how do you take the momentum into tomorrow?  
 HUNTER MAHAN: Yeah, I feel like I have good touch around these greens. I hit some good putts that were downhill and breaking three feet. Greens only get harder and they only get faster so it seems like you have to adapt; every hour this course gets more baked out. I'm just excited the way I'm playing right now.  
  
  Q. When you have a couple shots where things get a little sideways, are you able to block that out?  
 HUNTER MAHAN: Well, you just have to tell yourself to block it out. I've hit so many good shots, I can't let one or two shots totally knock me off my path. I mean, I'm hitting it too good for two bad things to happen. I know what I'm doing, and I just have to keep doing it.  
  
  Q. Would you rather putt on fast greens like this?  
 HUNTER MAHAN: Yeah, I mean, these greens are -- like 18, you get the putt rolling and rolling and rolling, and if it catches part of the hole it's going to go in. These greens are very pure, yeah. They're very true, and if the ball gets around it, it's probably going to go in.  
  
  Q. When you talk about getting out of your own way, do you feel like you're able to do that more?   
 HUNTER MAHAN: Yeah, you know, I have to if I want to play good. It's definitely a big key for me, especially in the majors. If you're not mentally strong and mentally at your best, you won't win. I don't care how good you're hitting it or doing whatever. That's definitely the most important thing.   
  
  Q. Do you feel like you're improving on that?  
 HUNTER MAHAN: Yeah, absolutely. I mean, that's what my focus is every round.  
  
  Q. (Indiscernible.)  
 HUNTER MAHAN: Yeah, just getting the speed, getting the touch. If you have the speed, then you can look at the break and then you can really start focusing on making some putts. But if you don't have the speed, it's going to be a long day.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT