THE PRESIDENTS CUP
October 10, 2009
Stewart Cink
Hunter Mahan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Hunter, for the second straight day, the 15th hole seemed to be awfully crucial for you; can you talk about that? 
 HUNTER MAHAN: You have 16, 17, 18, all birdies holes, so to win that hole today was absolutely enormous. 
 STEWART CINK: I haven't had a really good track record here, and as soon as I said that, I bombed one on the first hole, so I kind of told myself, I haven't been reading them too well and thought I would do it again. But we'll take a halve considering we were down most of the day.

 Q. Is it harder when you know you have a chance and you sense what's going on with the crowds and the team; did you watch the score boards at all? 
 STEWART CINK: I don't know if you can dig in any harder than we were all day. These guys on the other team are such good players that they are not going to give you anything. All day you think you might get a glimpses of holes and they bury a 10-footer to halve the hole. We kept plugging away and got back to even. 

 Q. This afternoon things are extraordinarily tight. 
 HUNTER MAHAN: A lot of good golf, that's for sure. 

 Q. You got up quick and lost momentum and hung in there all day. 
 STEWART CINK: And that's what we had to do. We did get off to a quick start and I think we were feeling pretty good about it. And then four holes later, we lost four straight holes, so we had to find a new gear. We threw a little bit at them and they hung in there great, too. It was a really awesome match all the way. 

 Q. The back nine was pretty solid all the way through. 
 HUNTER MAHAN: We are playing against some good players and we needed to dig deep the last few holes. We knew there was an opening. We knew if we could make a few birdies and a few putts we could put the pressure on and we did that. 

 Q. You were 10-under par for two days, no points; got to feel pretty good to get one. 
 STEWART CINK: Match play, you can live and die by it sometimes. I've won by scrapping it around and lost when I've played well. You keep playing well, you'll eventually get some points. If it comes in the form of a half point I'll take it now. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT