FRYS.COM OPEN
October 11, 2014
Hunter Mahan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Good way to end it, huh?
HUNTER MAHAN:   Yes, it is. 

Q.   Two birdies in the last three holes.   Talk about the way you finished. 
HUNTER MAHAN:   Yeah, with a 5, 4, 5 finish there and reachable 17, you feel like you've got to make a couple birdies there or you're going to miss out on some good opportunities.   I made a nice putt on 18, so makes dinner taste a little bit better tonight.

Q.   How much does that closing stretch factor in tomorrow?
HUNTER MAHAN:   Yeah, like you said, it's going to be pretty jam packed.   I don't even know what the leader is going to be, but there's an 8‑, 9‑under round out there, of course being in such phenomenal shape, the weather being so good, a lot can happen tomorrow, and everything you make until the last 18 is going to be great. 

Q.   Do you think something has kind of clicked the last two rounds? 
HUNTER MAHAN:   No, I played pretty good the first day, but little stuff out here.   I had two bad‑‑ I didn't play 8 and 9 well, and that cost me.   But didn't hit bad shots, just a little off on the speed on the greens, but playing pretty good, hitting a lot of good shots, a lot of fairways, giving myself looks at birdies out here, and it's important, because the greens are true, and you can make a lot of putts. 

Q.   Do you like the new season?
HUNTER MAHAN:   No.   I feel like I'm trying to finish this last one off and start the off‑season and kind of get some rest.   I haven't had much rest in a long time.   Yeah, it feels weird, but I'm here and I'm committed to this week, and I'm excited to be here.   This is really a fun event, so I'm glad I get the opportunity to play here.

Q.   The fact that you've put yourself in position for tomorrow, like you said, you've got to be a little tired after the last 13 weeks, but the fact that you have a chance tomorrow, does that energize you a little bit?
HUNTER MAHAN:   Yeah, I learned a lot from playing all that much golf and how to handle it, and I feel like I've handled it well this week.   I'm just not wasting too much energy on the course or before or after.   I'm making sure energy is spent while playing, thinking about the shot, thinking about how I need to play it and putting energy into the next shot and trusting myself this week, and everything feels great, and this is a fun place to play. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT