PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2009
Hunter Mahan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   HUNTER MAHAN: Very, very disappointed. I couldn't score today. I don't know why I couldn't score. 

 Q. Do you think it has something to do with the fact that the greens are a little bumpy and there's a mixture of poa annua and bent in there?
 HUNTER MAHAN: I just didn't hit them where I was supposed to hit them, short-sided myself a couple times. To play major championship golf you've got to hit the ball in play and hit the right part of the green and I didn't do that.

 Q. Was the wind part of that?
 HUNTER MAHAN: It's playing a little tougher, but it's consistent. So I thought it was very fair for everybody. To shoot what Tiger and Fisher shot, it's extremely possible. It's out there easily.

 Q. So you look at you're eight shots back on this golf course, you're a professional golfer, but you're obviously a pretty good golfer. But does that seem pretty difficult with who is at the top of the leaderboard?
 HUNTER MAHAN: It will be difficult. But I think in a perfect scenario, it's a major and you've got a good golf course. But if you hit good shots you'll be rewarded, shoot easily 6-under out here. The winds make it really tough. But if it calms down a little bit I don't see any reason for anyone not to be able to do that.

 Q. So there's bent?
 HUNTER MAHAN: Absolutely. You've got some shorter holes, mix of longer and shorter holes.

 Q. Does it make it easier having played two days here to kind of get a feel for the golf course?
 HUNTER MAHAN: I think every round you play out here is going to help. For me, every shot you hit, every hole you play, you gain more knowledge. Helps you so much on the weekend.

 Q. Do you feel like you've battled pretty good today?
 HUNTER MAHAN: Yeah, I battled. I didn't try to lose it. I was frustrated because I was swinging so good. I was hitting it flush. A foot left here, it was just one of those things. 
 But I felt I made some good putts on the back nine there. So I'm hitting it good. I can still shoot a low round and still get up there.

 Q. Is it more fun at a major where you know you can get it like that than if it was the U.S. Open?
 HUNTER MAHAN: Yeah, I think it's nice. A perfect setup where it still shoots low but it's still difficult, that's hard to do, but the PGA has done a perfect job. The greens are firm and quick. But I'll tell you they're just right, where on the weekend they're going to be really hard and fast. But it's still manageable. 
 The course is just right right now. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT