TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 28, 2009
Hunter Mahan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Hunter, what a way to finish the weekend, 63 yesterday, 64 today, knocked it right up there on number 18. You gotta be pleased the last 36 holes. Actually the whole tournament is very successful. 
 HUNTER MAHAN: Yeah. Played well on the weekend. Kind of found my putter, found the speed of the greens a little more and able to make some putts, because I hit it pretty good the first two days. I just didn't get much out of my rounds. 

 Q. It's just such a great venue for you. You always seem to do so well here. The fans go crazy for you. You must be comfortable. 
 HUNTER MAHAN: Yeah. It's a great place. From the GHO to Travelers taking over, they've done a great job of rejuvenating this event. 
 And people, the mean the fans come out here and they support us like crazy. They're great fans here, maybe the best ones in the world. So it's just a lot of fun. 

 Q. Great finish this week, tied for sixth in the Open last week. You're on a roll. 
 HUNTER MAHAN: Yeah. I feel good about my game right now. I've got a couple majors left. So gotta get ready for those. 

 Q. Keep it up. Well done. 
 HUNTER MAHAN: Thanks. 

 Q. Hunter, you gotta be pretty pleased with the way you played. 
 HUNTER MAHAN: Yeah. I played well on the weekend. I was so far back I had to do something, and finally made some putts. 

 Q. How about the crowd? I mean the crowd responds to you like you're the star on the Tour here. 
 HUNTER MAHAN: Yeah. Great people here. They really love golf. They support this event like crazy. It's a great golf course. It's a lot of fun to play. You get a lot of birdies, and it's a great finish. 

 Q. Did you watch the board at all?
 HUNTER MAHAN: Not really. I knew I'd make birdies. I didn't think there was any point. 

 Q. Is it frustrating to throw a 17-under up there and still not win the tournament?
 HUNTER MAHAN: Not really. I threw an even in there. That's what kind of killed me, playing a really sloppy second round. 

 Q. When a guy's playing like Kenny, though, is there anything you can do?
 HUNTER MAHAN: Not after -- when I shot even second round, I thought it would be a long shot for me to win. I had to play really, really good on the weekend, just because there's so many good players up there. 
 David Toms is playing great. Paul's playing great, and Kenny knows how to win. 

 Q. Like to throw darts at 18 at the end. 
 HUNTER MAHAN: Yeah. Now I wish I had 17. I had a good number and made a good swing. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT