FRYS.COM OPEN
October 9, 2014
Hunter Mahan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  HUNTER MAHAN:   Yes and no.   I wish this event was another week away, just because having one week off, only one week, so still a little tired of the game in a sense that we've been grinding for it feels like five months.   But it's a challenge.   It's a challenge.   As players who play golf professionally, it's a big challenge and we have to adjust to that and get used to that and figure out how do we play our best golf under these circumstances.   This is such a pretty place, such a great event, and the people, the volunteers and Fry's do such a good job with the event, so I am glad that I'm here and get a chance to play this good golf course.   
   
 Q.   What was last week like as far as practice and stuff?   Was it clubs away most of the week?  
HUNTER MAHAN:   Most of the week.   I went to the course a couple times.   I wanted to work on a couple things.   I felt like I built some momentum from the Ryder Cup.   I wanted to kind of keep it going a little bit and figure out if those feelings were right and stuff like that.   A couple three, four‑hour sessions last week to make sure all the feelings were good and I had some sort of plan coming into this week.  
   
 Q.   Was there much Ryder Cup talk out there between you guys?   
HUNTER MAHAN:   A little bit, yeah, a little bit, having just experienced it and everything.   It was definitely a topic of conversation.   Not a lot but just a little bit.  
   
 Q.   Like what?   What was the best story?   
HUNTER MAHAN:   The best story?   I think the best stories were just from hanging around Phil and him playing ping‑pong and just Phil being Phil.   No one loves the Ryder Cup and no one loves being a leader and taking guys under their wing.   He's just the best, and it was just fun always having him in there.   
   
 Q.   Is Phil and Kuch in table tennis a better partnership than Phil and Tiger on the golf course?   Never mind.   Kuch made a good reference going from Augusta to Hilton Head saying you go from playing in front of a million people to‑‑ what's that like?  
HUNTER MAHAN:   It's pretty easy, I think.   This is the norm in that it's far from it, and I think it's so cool being over there because you make a putt or you hit a great shot, and it's like you hear a smattering of applause.   You hear some Americans going crazy, but you don't hear much other than that.   It's a little strange off the tee when no one is really out here at 7:45, and out there at 7:00 everyone is singing along and the party is already started.  
   
 Q.   Is it harder out here because it's so much colder and wet?  
HUNTER MAHAN:   Yeah, it's an adjustment kind of throughout the day because of the weather, the temperature changes so much, and it's going to affect the ball.   I mean, I played Tuesday afternoon and the ball was just flying out there.   You play in the morning, probably up until about 1:30, 2:00, and it's playing long.   The ball is not carrying.   It's only 55, 60 degrees.   It feels great, though.   I don't hate it, that's for sure.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT