SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 5, 2009
Hunter Mahan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Hunter, a solid week, 8-under par. It's not the finish you wanted but you played well.  
 HUNTER MAHAN: Yeah. Left a lot of shots out there this week but it was nice to finish with a good round.  
  
  Q. Talk about the conditions, how they changed and how it affects the way you approach the golf course.  
 HUNTER MAHAN: Well, guys today it's solid swings and tough conditions. It was very tough today. Tough to get to some of the holes where they were and it was really gusting and super strong.  
  
  Q. Just getting through those final four holes is a testament to itself on this golf course.  
 HUNTER MAHAN: For sure. 18 is just borderline ridiculous it's playing so hard.  
  
  Q. Par 5?  
 HUNTER MAHAN: It's a par 5 plus. Tough tee shot and really hard second and you're not down there because the wind is blowing so hard.  
  
  Q. Have you ever played more --  
 HUNTER MAHAN: No. It's weird. It's a weird last couple days, waking up early, finishing late, not -- it's not a whole lot of fun but I mean I slept for the first day. After the first day, it was great. Perfect good course. It was fine.  
  
  Q. Golf is so routine. You get out here early and don't finish until late.  
 HUNTER MAHAN: You start your routine out here. You go from your routine. Everyone has to do it. You have to get through it.  
  
  Q. Did you accomplish something this week? Do you feel like you improved any?  
 HUNTER MAHAN: I don't know. I've been playing this whole year, making good swings and some good shots. Not getting a lot out of it. So it's -- I figured out a little bit better about some things.  
  
  Q. The last few holes you're close enough to the lead that things could happen. Were you scoreboard watching?  
 HUNTER MAHAN: I saw J.B. finish with 11. That's a heck of a number right now. I couldn't get to there.  
  
  Q. Did you feel you were in it until the last four, five holes?  
 HUNTER MAHAN: It was weird. I kind of got up there and -- it was nice to make some birdies. Nice to play well and I hit a lot of good shots. There's a lot of tough shots out there.  
  
  Q. You got to nine. Was the leader at 11?  
 HUNTER MAHAN: It was just jumping around a lot. Every hole seemed like it was change.  
  
  Q. How were the greens today?  
 HUNTER MAHAN: Perfect. The course is immaculate. Couldn't do a better job.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT