THE RYDER CUP
September 20, 2008
Hunter Mahan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. The 18th hole, there's been some half points lost there. That was the third time already. Is it just a tough driving hole? It's been a tough driving hole. Is it as tough as it has played?
 HUNTER MAHAN: Yeah, there's water right there and you've got the lead and you don't want to give it away there. You know, it's a good finishing hole, though. Things can happen like that. We just need to finish better. I mean, yeah, if you finish well on 18, it's through. 

 Q. What about the momentum? Do you have to go reclaim it in the afternoon maybe a little bit?
 HUNTER MAHAN: Yeah, we've still got the lead. We just have to go out there and play golf right now. This thing was far from over. The first day didn't mean anything. We've just got to keep playing. It's a long way until it's over. 

 Q. Talk about Justin's putting. 
 HUNTER MAHAN: Unbelievable. It was great. He hit a lot of putts, and luckily he rolled a lot of them in. They were tough there, they put the pressure on us, and he was huge.

 Q. What did you have as far as options from down there by that little swale, the drop, and it was too tightly mown to flop a wedge in there?
 HUNTER MAHAN: It was pretty tight. I didn't want to -- there was a lot of room for error there. If I could just get it on the green somewhere. I figured I would have done a little better than I did. He's been putting so well, I just wanted to give him a chance. He hit a great 4-wood in there, just ended up in a weird spot for me. 

 Q. It must have been out of that lie, huh?
 HUNTER MAHAN: Yeah, I mean, it was kind of in and out of the bunker, but he hit a great shot in there. 
 I think we've got a chance to win. We're not way behind like we've been, so I feel great. We've got a chance to win, come in tomorrow and hopefully finish strong today. There's no reason not to.

 Q. You're playing with Phil if you have not heard. 
 HUNTER MAHAN: Yeah.

 Q. Thoughts on that?
 HUNTER MAHAN: Looking forward to it. I mean, he's a gamer, so it should be a fun afternoon. 

 Q. Can you explain the swings of going 1-up, halve, back and forth?
 HUNTER MAHAN: Yeah, we were down all day. I mean, we were trying to fight back all day and just couldn't get anything -- they didn't give us anything. Justin made a great putt on 17 there and just didn't finish the way we needed to. But we played well. Those guys, they hung in there all day.

 Q. How do you deal with mood swings when you go from 1-up on 17 to halving on 18, giving it back on 18? 
 HUNTER MAHAN: Yeah, it is what it is. You handle it. You do handle it. It's the only way you can do it. You can't sit there and wonder about it; it's over. 

 Q. Not finishing at 18 has happened a few times to the American side. Is that psychologically a tough position to be in, one hole to play, just trying not to lose it? Does that make it hard not to play your best?
 HUNTER MAHAN: You know, I don't know. I've only done it once. I think it's a great position to be in. I'd rather be one ahead than one behind, that's for sure, because then you put the pressure on them. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT