THE RYDER CUP
September 19, 2008
Hunter Mahan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Your approach on 5?  
 HUNTER MAHAN: Just 7-iron from 175. Hit a good one and left it right of the hole. Yeah, they played the hole a little sloppy and gave us an opportunity there and we took advantage.  
  
  Q. Talk about helping Justin get his first outright win.  
 HUNTER MAHAN: Yeah, I didn't know that. It was just great to be out there. We had a great chemistry and a great flow. After the first couple of holes we played really well and I kept the pressure on.  
  
  Q. In terms of the crowd, when you looked around, have you ever seen anything quite like that?  
 HUNTER MAHAN: Going to the front and back nine when things were getting tense and tight, you could see it coming down 12 where all of the people were coming on 18 and 13 and 14, they were waiting to erupt.  
  
  Q. When you play an individual game, you don't get this too often; is this something that as an athlete in an individual sport that you kind of had hoped you would experience?  
 HUNTER MAHAN: Sure, it's great, it's just great. You get to play this week for this week and you get to try as hard as you can and you have some brothers with you and you just try to back each other up and it's been great.  
  
  Q. What's been different about the experience versus your expectations coming in?  
 HUNTER MAHAN: Yeah, it's challenging and intense and you can just feel it on every shot. But it's exciting, too, and it's relaxing to know that you're here. It's a privilege to play in this and be a part of it, and, you know, just take it in and just play golf and don't try to do too much.  
 Justin and I are going out together and looking forward to playing again and getting a point.  
  
  Q. Is it helpful, your Presidents Cup experience?  
 HUNTER MAHAN: Yeah, and you feel the tension and energy it has. I don't think The Presidents Cup quite has the energy, and the people. They wanted us to win The Presidents Cup but they really want us to win here. They are supporting us and coming out and rooting hard.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT