BARBASOL CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2018
Hunter Mahan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Just talk about the round today.  
HUNTER MAHAN: Yeah, feel fortunate to be where we are right now.  Obviously the forecast wasn't great for the next few days and today.  Feels great to get it done.   
The course is really -- it's been through a lot seems like the last seven days or so, and it's in fantastic shape.  Feels great to play the way I did.  I had great control of the ball today and had a lot of great looks.   
Feels good to be where I am right now.   
 Q.  Was it softer?  More helpful?  Less?  
HUNTER MAHAN: It was slightly more soft than yesterday.  I mean, yesterday the wind was blowing a little bit if the afternoon and balls were bouncing a little bit.   
So it was softer, but it's still in really good shape.  Fairways are really good.  They're just -- they need a little bit more time without rain.   
 Q.  Playing with the leader, knowing you can't let him get too far ahead of you, does that help your approach going into today?  
HUNTER MAHAN: Well, we have a lot of golf left, so I don't want to hit the gas too hard and just start firing at everything.  He's playing great; made a lot of great putts; he's swinging it great.   
I think for 36 holes I like the position I'm in.  There is a lot of the golf to be played.   
 Q.  Kentucky has been good to be.  You remember the days at the Ryder Cup?  
HUNTER MAHAN: Yeah, absolutely.  It's great golfing community.  Kentucky is a great place to play.  This is a great golf course.  It's great to be here this time of year for sure.  I think all the players I've talked to enjoy being here and even playing in Lexington.   
 Q.  What do you remember most about that Ryder Cup besides getting the win?  It was a wild week there.  
HUNTER MAHAN: To pick one thing is impossible.  It was just a fantastic week.  Just being with all the guys and Paul and just the energy from the crowd was just absolutely electric.  It was unlike anything I've seen or been a part of.   
It didn't feel like golf.  Felt like a rock concert half the time.  Just great intensity, fire, but just so much fun to be a part of.   
 Q.  Have you been back in Kentucky since then?  
HUNTER MAHAN: Well, the PGA was after that.   
 Q.  That's right.  
HUNTER MAHAN: So that was probably about it.   
 Q.  (Recording in progress. )  
HUNTER MAHAN: Good to be playing 36 holes and done right now.  The course is really firming up nice, so it's nice to be playing well and be playing golf.   
 Q.  Is the normalcy kind of happening yet with the family and everything?  
HUNTER MAHAN: You know, day to day, I guess, for some of us.  Obviously it's a lot harder for others.  But things have changed for everybody forever, so I think we're all just taking it a day at a time.   
 Q.  How is the golf game?  What's going on in the golf game now that seems to be a little sharper than maybe six months, a year ago?  
HUNTER MAHAN: Just been continually working on it and figuring out kind of my DNA and what I need to do to swing my best and swing comfortable and swing without fear.   
Kind of finally feeling that and for the last few weeks been able to put it together.  Coming to the golf course without fear of wondering if it's going to be there or not.  If I do miss a shot, I know exactly why and how to fix it and correct on the next one and move forward.   
 Q.  I've got to ask you a question, because we've played a lot of golf together and you had zero fear a decade ago.  What are little things that are maybe getting you back to that point?  
HUNTER MAHAN: Well, I was swinging within myself and the way that I can do it consistently over and over again -- and in pressure situations.  For some reason I just got away from that.  Really no reason why.  Wasn't trying not swing good.   
Once your technique goes and you can't swing the way you normally have, it's not going to -- no amount of confidence or whatever is going to help.  No amount of practice, if you're doing something wrong, you're just going to keep doing it wrong.   
Finally feeling comfortable, finally feeling like I know how to attack pins and I know how far I'm going to hit the shot and all those things that encompass being confident on the golf course and not having any fear of the result.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT