THE BARCLAYS
August 21, 2008
Hunter Mahan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. 9-under of 2, talk about your round.   
 HUNTER MAHAN: Started out with an eagle are. Hit a 3-wood and sand wedge in there and a good way to begin the day. Played pretty solid all day. Hit a lot of fairways and a lot of greens. It's a tough golf course, punishing, and so you have to really keep the ball in play.  
  
  Q. Was that the key, hitting as many fairways as you did?  
 HUNTER MAHAN: Yeah, it's going to be hard to make birdies out of the rough. It's just a tough golf course. It's relentless.  
  
  Q. How important is it to set the tone with the first hole?   
 HUNTER MAHAN: It's just one hole. I don't know, if I did it on the second hole, I don't think it makes much difference.   
 I hit two good shots, and I got rewarded.   
  
  Q. How about the first and the last hole you played, eagle and a birdie?   
 HUNTER MAHAN: 18 is a really hard finishing hole. Everything kind of slopes right-to-left and everything is pushing left and the hole goes right, and it's a little uncomfortable, but it is tough. And to finish that way was great.   
  
  Q. What did you hit?  
 HUNTER MAHAN: I had 3-wood and 179, 7-iron.  
  
  Q. Shooting 62, 9-under with such an impressive field, what does it feel like walking off 18 and seeing that number on the board?  
 HUNTER MAHAN: It feels good. It's a tough golf course. I thought if you shoot in the red all week, in the 60s all week you'll have something at the end there.   
 I feel great and love this golf course and excited about the next couple of days.  
  
  Q. Does it feel good to have a little momentum going, with the crowd getting bigger, the cheering?   
 HUNTER MAHAN: For sure. This is a great place to play, great golf course, great people. It's going to be packed on the weekend. I'm looking forward to, yeah, the next couple of days.  
  
  Q. What was your key to being successful on the greens for you today?   
 HUNTER MAHAN: The greens are good. I mean, they are perfect, perfect speed. I think you can be aggressive. I felt like I was committed to my lines and made aggressive strokes. I was trying to make putts out there.   
  
  Q. How quickly did it take you to get used to it?  
 HUNTER MAHAN: It's a new PING weighted putter. As soon as I grabbed it, I looked down and it just felt good to me. Practiced with it last week, and I just like it. I love the feel, love the setup and it's rolling great for me.   
  
  Q. In the bag for day two?  
 HUNTER MAHAN: Oh, yeah, it will be in the bag for a while, hopefully.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT