TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 22, 2008
Hunter Mahan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Hunter Mahan, thanks for joining us in the media center here at the Travelers Championship for a couple minutes. 65 on Sunday. Bad couple 3 years for you at the event. Talk about the day and the tournament in general.
 HUNTER MAHAN: Yeah, it was great. You know, once again Travelers put on a great tournament. The new range and everything, this is a first-class facility, first-class tournament. So, exciting to know that I've had success here, and I can come here feeling good about myself. 
 I am excited how I played this week and proud of the day I played.
 THE MODERATOR: Questions? 

 Q. Looked like you continued to hit the ball really good and had a few putts that just didn't -- had a little bugaboo today?
 HUNTER MAHAN: Yeah. I thought I gave myself great chances on the back nine there, and just -- you know, I didn't feel like I played it badly, I just didn't make them, just didn't quite read them the way I needed to. But happy with the way I played, happy with the chance that I did give myself.

 Q. Hunter, did you get a little flash back walking down 18? I mean you got a birdie there. Were you thinking playoff, what were your thoughts?
 HUNTER MAHAN: I saw Stewie chip up on 15 there, and we were three back so I was just trying to birdie the last two and see what would happen. I wasn't really thinking about winning or anything, just trying to finish strong. 
 And, you know, made two -- made a couple good shots in a row, made some good putts, and made it interesting on 18 for everybody. 
 No, I was just trying to play golf, trying to finish up the tournament well.

 Q. Were you surprised he took a driver out down wind?
 HUNTER MAHAN: Not really. I played with him yesterday. I never thought for a second he -- the ball was going on go off line on any shot. I figured he was going to strike it down the middle. I mean, just didn't make a good swing, I guess. But you expected him to bomb it down there far and leave himself an easy wedge.

 Q. What is it about this course that fits your game so well?
 HUNTER MAHAN: I'm not sure. I mean, it's a course that rewards good shots. I mean if you hit a lot of fairways you are going to give yourself great looks at birdie. 
 I felt like the last couple years I've been playing well coming in here. And, I don't know, I seem to putt these greens a little bit better than most greens, so that always helps. But nothing in particular. I think I just -- this course just fits my game. I mean, I just feel comfortable on each hole on each shot.

 Q. First defense of a championship. You've got to be very satisfied with the way you performed, I would think?
 HUNTER MAHAN: For sure. Yeah. Was excited to come here. Excited to have the opportunity to defend my title here and everything. And felt like I played well and gave myself a chance to win on Sunday. So, yeah, I'm truly happy how everything went, the whole week went. The Travelers people were great. And, you know, they just made it easy on me and had a good week.

 Q. (No microphone.)
 HUNTER MAHAN: That would be great, too. I can do that. I can fall into that pattern.
 THE MODERATOR: Any more questions? All right. Hunter, thanks a lot. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT