U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 14, 2008
Hunter Mahan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. How does it feel to shoot 69 in your own national championship and get yourself right in the mix?  
 HUNTER MAHAN: Feels great. Any time you shoot in the red numbers at a USGA event you're doing something right.  
  
  Q. Any particular aspect of your game that's been key to your success this week?  
 HUNTER MAHAN: Been driving it really well. Very solid. Pretty long, pretty straight. So if I continue to do that I'll give myself some good chances for birdie.  
  
  Q. Sergio was just telling us the seven or eight holes are very difficult today. After that he felt like it eases up. Is that the same with you?  
 HUNTER MAHAN: I totally agree with him. There's some pins you can get at. I think 9, 10, 13, are some definite birdie holes.   
 And 18 being a short kind of par-5 where you can make eagle or and definitely make a birdie, it makes it nice.  
  
  Q. Were you aware as you were going around that your position was improving all the time because the leaders were struggling early on?  
 HUNTER MAHAN: Definitely at a U.S. Open if you shoot under par or keep it around even par throughout the week you're probably going to move up a little bit.   
 And if I just kept being patient out there and just take it one shot at a time I had a good chance.   
  
  Q. This is a test that makes people jittery, nervous, takes your game apart. How have you managed to maintain your composure through all this?  
 HUNTER MAHAN: Just try to play one shot at a time. Try to play it the best I can and just focus on what I'm trying to do at that present moment and make the best of it I can, just play aggressive. I have to play each shot aggressively, but maybe not play aggressively.   
  
  Q. Talk about your approach to the game when you come here. Is it, I'm playing Hunter Mahan's game and I'll see what the course gives me?  
 HUNTER MAHAN: No, I like this style of golf. It's penalizing bad shots, but it will reward good shots. And I like that. I like the fact I can step up there and hit a lot of fairways and greens and give myself a lot of good chances and shoot even par and move up the leaderboard.  
  
  Q. To keep that movement going, what does tomorrow, what do you have to do tomorrow?  
 HUNTER MAHAN: I just have to come out and play. I just have to hit the fairways out there. The rough is too thick, it's too rough. If I put the ball in play off the tee I can play, I can use my irons to my advantage and put the ball where I need to put it. And I've just, I've got a great feel for these greens. So I'm looking forward to tomorrow, looking forward to the challenge.  
  
  Q. Anything in particular of your game besides the obvious things of staying out of the rough, keeping it somewhere in the fairway, anything in your game specifically that you've got to focus on tomorrow?  
 HUNTER MAHAN: I just got to play one shot at a time and be patient. I just have to focus on the task at hand and what's in front of me. I can't get ahead of myself or behind myself, I got to stay in the moment.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT