HSBC WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
October 12, 2007
Hunter Mahan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   HUNTER MAHAN:  I played very well this afternoon, really solid and didn't make it easy for him. It was nice to win the first 18 and second 18. I felt like I carried on where I left off against Justin, and maybe even played a little better. I'm getting to know the course more and I like it a lot. I hit a ton of fairway and greens. The seventh hole in the afternoon was an important one. I hit it in the sand but got up and down for a save, to stop him getting another one back. That was a big hole. I had a good hole on the 9th and birdied that. I felt I had him from there. Then on 12 I had a good birdie too.   
 Yes, Angel Cabrera is playing really good right now but I'm looking forward to taking him on tomorrow. He's playing with a lot confidence and if he's hitting it straight with that driver, he's going to be tough to beat, for sure. No question, he's longer than me off the tee, but I'm not going to be trying to do that at all and try and keep up with him. He'll be way out there - monstrous at times, so I'll just play my own game.   
 I am surprised with the results today - they've all been blow-outs - because there are a lot of good players here. But that's what the top players can do I guess.   
 "Matchplay is definitely starting to suit me. I like it. It's fun. You look at the guy in front of you and figure how to play him and not worry about anyone else. It makes it a little easier on the mind.  I'm the former US Junior Champion, I lost the final of the US Amateur, I've had the Presidents Cup and I do love matchplay. I enjoy the competition of it, the guys you're playing with. The pre-shot routine I have is to help with my feel, I get that good feel and I'm ready. It's something I worked on with my instructor last week and it's just a feel thing. It works for me and hopefully it will continue to against Cabrera.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT