TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 23, 2007
Hunter Mahan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Hunter, for joining go is here in the media center at the Travelers Championship.  10 under par.  It looks like a great position going into tomorrow.  You've been in this position before.  You probably learned a lot from that.  Just talk about going into tomorrow and what you can do out there. 
 HUNTER MAHAN: Obviously the course is playing somewhat tough.  The wind is still up, but there's definitely a good round out there, you can definitely make birdies and stuff.  I feel good about where I am.  I think I'm only one shot back.  So I'm looking forward to tomorrow and getting out there and just playing golf. 

 Q.  Were you in the last group last year? 
 HUNTER MAHAN:  No, I was a couple, two or three in front. 

 Q.  When was the last time you were in the last group? 
 HUNTER MAHAN:  Probably Texas a couple of years ago, when Bart Bryant won. 

 Q.  Is that the only other time? 
 HUNTER MAHAN: I think so, I think I was in the second to last group a couple of years ago when they had the playoff. 

 Q.  (No microphone). 
 HUNTER MAHAN: I mean, it's one of those things where a lot of guys do that.  You come to a place and they just play well.  David Toms in Memphis, he goes there and it's an automatic top 10 for the guy.  You just feel comfortable there.  You see the greens a little better than most places and you see tee shots better, the yardage is better, everything is easier for you. 

 Q.  Did you look at the leaderboard at all? 
 HUNTER MAHAN:  No, I didn't.  I was just trying to go out there and play.  I didn't think anyone would really run away because it was still playing kind of tough, I was just trying to take care of my business. 

 Q.  An adventure on 15.  Talk about that hole in general. 
 HUNTER MAHAN:  It's a feast or famine, it's a great, great hole.  Risk-reward, you can get up there and hit a great tee shot and have an eagle putt.  But the green has so much slope on it, you can three putt as fast as you can make a putt.  I got extremely lucky there.  Had a great tee shot, it got knocked in the bunker, then hit a great bunker shot and made a good putt there for par.  It's not a good lay-up because it doesn't set you up well for a wedge because there's so much slope.  It is a very good hole. 

 Q.  Did you hear Cink took a 10 on it? 
 HUNTER MAHAN:  No, that's not good. 

 Q.  You're one behind.  You haven't won.  How do you -- 
 HUNTER MAHAN: You have to be excited.  You can't run away from it.  You have to be excited.  You have a chance to win,  that's where you want to be starting Thursday.  I'm super excited.  I just have to go there and control my emotions and not let the situation control me, just play golf and play shots the best I can. 

 Q.  You finished three back last year.  You got second place.  Will you hopefully use that? 
 HUNTER MAHAN: For sure.  I played well coming down the stretch last year, I made a couple of birdies to get there.  I have to take the fact that I can play the last holes well into consideration and just do the best I can. 

 Q.  Can you run through your birdies? 
 HUNTER MAHAN: Birdied No. 2 today, sand wedge to about five feet, six feet just past the hole. 
 Made bogey on 4, the par 3, just three-putted there just from off the fringe. 
 Birdied the next hole, birdied the par 5 from the fringe kind of in the fringe I putted it.  It was just off the green, 30 feet or so. 
 Birdied 12, hit a wedge up there about five feet or so. 
 Birdied the next hole, par 5.  Hit just short of the green, probably 40 feet away, and just hit a good two putt there.  My first putt was probably four feet or so and made a nice left to right there for birdie. 
 I think that was it. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT