TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 22, 2007
Hunter Mahan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOE CHEMYCZ:  We welcome Hunter Mahan in today with a 1-over par 71 today.  Hunter, talk about following up one good round with another good round.  Obviously the conditions are different today.  Is it more wind or what is the difference? 
 HUNTER MAHAN: The wind for sure.  It's blowing very strong.  You've really got to control your ball and hit it at the right time sometimes, because it is kind of shifty.  It blows a bit in sometimes and it kind of helps, but it's tough to judge. 
 JOE CHEMYCZ:  Talk about your day.  What was good?  What was bad? 
 HUNTER MAHAN: Didn't hit nearly as good as I did yesterday.  My irons were good yesterday, but I'm making nice putts to keep my round going.  Good par putts.  Just wasn't as crisp as yesterday. 

 Q.  (No microphone). 
 HUNTER MAHAN: A little bit for sure.  It's a bit gusty out there.  It makes going after pins tougher, hard to get your distance better and just the control is tough.  It's a little uncomfortable.  It's a lot of right-to-left and left-to-right winds, too.  It's not a whole lot of in and down, so it makes it tougher. 

 Q.  In your experience, do you feel you have an advantage playing in the morning rather than the afternoon today? 
 HUNTER MAHAN:  Definitely.  The back nine was tough for us, I'm sure it's going to be rough out there.  The greens are firming out a little bit.  I can see a lot of balls skip through the greens sometimes.  I'm just happy to be done. 

 Q.  Was it blowing from the very beginning?  And what time were you up for a 6:50 starting time? 
 HUNTER MAHAN: I was up at 5:00, not very happy about it, but I was up, trying to move around.  We started on 10.  So we were in the trees on 10 and 11, once we came out on 12 on the green, it was blowing.  When we made the turn on 1, it was on after that. 

 Q.  Even early in the morning? 
 HUNTER MAHAN:  Yes, it had to be 7:30 or so, it started blowing.  I thought we would get through nine, but it was blowing pretty good. 

 Q.  How surprised would you be if you were leading? 
 HUNTER MAHAN: I would be surprised.  There are a lot of guys at 5 and 6.  Chris DiMarco is a good player.  Those are guys that can throw up 2, 3 under, so I would be surprised. 

 Q.  Why do you think this course is so kind to the kind of game you play? 
 HUNTER MAHAN: I don't know.  It sets up well for my driver.  I can put the ball in play.  I'm just comfortable here, I guess.  I feel good about each tee shot, not really worried about anything, feel pretty free.  I putt pretty well here, too, I'm not sure why.  I had a pretty decent putting round today which helps a lot. 
 JOE CHEMYCZ:  Take us through your birdies and bogeys.  You started on the back, your birdie on 12. 
 HUNTER MAHAN: Driver off the tee, sand wedge, actually an L-wedge to about 10 feet, just up hell left to righter. 
 Bogey on 14, hit it in the right rough over there and just kind of on the side hill and hacked out to the front of the green, and just short of the green and putted it to about 10 feet short.  Had a good putt there, it just didn't go in. 
 Birdie on 15, hit driver off the tee, and hit it up there just about pin-high, in the second cut of rough there and got it up and down for birdie. 
 Hit driver on 1, through the fairway right at the bunker.  It was in the rough, we thought we could hit a nice L-wedge and the ball just rolled right off the face and it went up and down real fast and hit thick rough.  There are spots where the rough is just gnarly.  On 18, it's got to be five, six inches, it's just brutal, and just didn't get it up and down. 
 7, hit it in the right bunker and hit it out just short of the green, hit a pretty good pitch, just misread the putt a little bit. 

 Q.  How long were they on 1 and 7? 
 HUNTER MAHAN: 1, I had a 20-footer, and 7 was probably eight, 10 feet. 

 Q.  The stats say that until you made your par putt at 9 you hadn't made a putt over 10 feet all day, they were close, 8, 9 feet, but 16 feet 9 itches for par there on No. 9. 
 HUNTER MAHAN:  On 9, I only had a four-footer. 
 JOE CHEMYCZ:  Hunter, thank you. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT