TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 21, 2007
Hunter Mahan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER: Thank you, Hunter, for joining us for a few minutes here in the media center at the Travelers Championship.  Nice playing today.  I guess you made bogey on 16, you were in the fairway on 17 when they called that one hour and 25 minute delay or whatever.  Maybe talk a little bit about that and then also the delay and what you did well today.   
 HUNTER MAHAN: The delay wasn't too bad.  It was quick actually.  It came out of nowhere, it seemed like.  It wasn't a big deal.  I only had about a 9-iron left on 17, I was feeling pretty good, so I don't think it really bothered anybody.   
 I really didn't do anything spectacular, put the ball in play.  I left myself a lot of wedges and stuff.  I had great distance control and good accuracy, it was a good thing.  I really played solid, nothing spectacular.   
  
  Q.  Do you think this is an extension of your play here last year, or is it totally irrelevant one year to the next?   
 HUNTER MAHAN: I like this golf course, I like playing here.  I feel comfortable on the course.  A lot of the holes fit my eye very well, and I feel like the last couple of weeks I've actually progressed on a lot of my game, so I feel good about that, too.   
  
  Q.  You managed to make 72 holes at Oakmont look pretty good.  Did you feel more relaxed after four rounds at Oakmont?   
 HUNTER MAHAN:  Definitely more relaxed.  Coming from the U.S. Open, Oakmont, which is just a grind from the very first shot to the last shot.  It's a complete grind and your brain takes a beating.  I definitely felt a little more relaxed here.  The greens were easier to read.  I didn't have to lag any ten-footer and you can play a little more aggressive, the ball is actually going to stop by the hole.  So definitely a different feeling playing this week from last week.   
  
  Q.  You mentioned a carry over from last year, how about last week, or is it just so different?   
 HUNTER MAHAN:  My feelings and my game and my swing and everything feel good, feel the same.  I'm trying to do the same things.  I've made pretty good strides in my game the last couple of weeks so it feels good.   
  
  Q.  What in particular?   
 HUNTER MAHAN: Kind of everything.  It's all kind of coming together.  The swing is really coming together and I'm finally getting confidence in my putting, which is huge.  If you can make putts anywhere, you can succeed.   
  
  Q.  (Inaudible).   
 HUNTER MAHAN:  Kind of briefly on I think 14 in, and I think I had four to go.  It kind of popped in there briefly.  Still had to hit a lot of good shots to do that, so I wasn't concerned about it.  I kind of knew where I was.  There's three more days so it's not a concern right now.   
 JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER: Let's go through your birdies and bogeys.   
 HUNTER MAHAN: 1, hit 3-wood off the tee and 8-iron about 25 feet short, I think.   
 2, birdie, 5-wood off the tee, about 104 to the hole, I hit a good sand wedge there.   
 3, hit good driver and 9-iron.  I actually got right of the hole, uphill a little left to right and made that.   
 JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER: How far were your putts?   
 HUNTER MAHAN:  First hole was 25 feet.  Second hole was only four feet.  The third hole was 12 feet, probably.   
 4, I hit a good drive down there.  You can bomb a drive down there without thinking about it.  Hit a little 8-iron -- it was about 173, downwind, hit a good 8-iron probably eight feet to the right of the hole.   
 Bogeyed 7, drive down there, trying to hit a 9-iron from 144 and it shot out of there, flew way past the hole and over the green.  Didn't hit a very good putt.  It rolled to the side and went off and then hit the next one up there and made a putt for bogey, and moved on from there.   
 9, 5-wood in the fairway to --   
 JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER: You don't need to give us yardage.   
 HUNTER MAHAN: Sand wedge to about five feet.   
 11, wedge to about five feet, four feet.   
 12, sand wedge to six feet.   
 13, two-putt birdie from 30 feet.   
 14, hit a wedge to like a foot and a half or so.   
 16, I made bogey.  That was real tricky.  The wind was just everywhere.  It was cross and in and down.  I didn't commit to a good 7 and then missed it off to the right and had a nasty lie in the bunker, got it out of the bunker and made about a six-footer for bogey there.   
 17, 9-iron to four feet, five feet.   
  
  Q.  Was your drive on 17 before or after the whistle.   
 HUNTER MAHAN: Before, I was in the fairway.   
  
  Q.  So you had hit your drive?   
 HUNTER MAHAN:  Yes.   
  
  Q.  9-iron from about how far?   
 HUNTER MAHAN: 163.   
  
  Q.  When the siren blows, especially after you strike one down the middle, and now you have a delay, is there a time frame that goes off in your head that I hope I'm in a good swing plane, and the longer the delay the tougher it's going to be to find it again, or are you guys so refined it doesn't matter?   
 HUNTER MAHAN: My feelings with my swing were good all day.  We hit a few balls on the range.  It was pretty quick, it seemed like.  I hit a few balls on the range and I felt fine.  I felt I got it back pretty fast.  As soon as I got out there, it was fine.  I didn't have any second thoughts or anything.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT