84 LUMBER CLASSIC
September 16, 2006
Hunter Mahan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








LAURY LIVSEY:  We would like to welcome Hunter Mahan into the media center.  You have just finished a 5 under 67 today, puts you in good position.  You haven't been in this position since Hartford actually, Buick Championship, right?
HUNTER MAHAN:  Yep.
Q.  Want to talk a little bit about your round?
HUNTER MAHAN:  Got off to a good start, birdied the 1st hole.  I didn't hit too many good iron shots after that until about 6, then hit a good    hit a nice 6 iron on 7, didn't have a very good putt but made par.

After that I started hitting it good, birdied 8 and 9 to kind of get some momentum going into the back nine.

I birdied 11, hit it pretty solid all day.

Birdied    finished strong, birdies on 16 and 17, which is nice.

So I played solid, hit most of the fairways, played pretty consistent, just tried to give myself a bunch of opportunities for birdies.
Q.  When the leaderboard is as jammed as it is and you know a lot of people are making birdies, it's like one bogey you know you can drop.  Does that make any difference?  Does it just kind of add to it?
HUNTER MAHAN:  You know, you can't really worry about it when you go out there.  12 is still leading.  You can make a couple bogeys and shoot still a good round.  I don't think you need to go play perfect golf by any means.  But you have to go out there tomorrow and just play golf because there's no reason to protect anything.  You can be aggressive, the greens are still very soft, the fairways are soft, so you can still very be aggressive.
Q.  With as many guys up on the leaderboard who haven't won yet, what do you think that will make tomorrow like?
HUNTER MAHAN:  Well, I think there's a couple guys who have won and a couple guys who haven't.  I think Charles is a guy who's won and probably should have won more.  I think we've got a good mix who haven't won yet and who want to win and who are very capable of winning and guys who have won.  I think it's going to be good.  I think guys are going to be fired up, excited to play; they'll have a little bit of nerves but very excited for an opportunity to win.
Q.  What happened at Wachovia when you were DQ'd?  You didn't register; is that correct?
HUNTER MAHAN:  Yeah, we got there
Q.  You were an alternate?
HUNTER MAHAN:  I was an alternate and got called in, got there I think on Tuesday afternoon and went out and played nine holes.  I literally totally forgot.  I have no excuses.  I've done it every week I've been on Tour up to that point and since and kind of forgot.  I kind of got in my routine when I got there and kind of forgot.

The good thing was I shot 81 or something the first day so it didn't matter.  If I would have shot 65 I would have been a little more upset when I left.  I think my whole week wasn't good.
Q.  How does it even get that far?  Isn't there somebody who knows whether you registered or not?
HUNTER MAHAN:  Well, I mean, usually    I mean, I've seen guys come up to players and say you haven't registered and stuff like that.  You know, just a blunder, a mistake.  Luckily it didn't cost me.
Q.  You haven't forgot to register since, though?
HUNTER MAHAN:  No, absolutely not.  Vijay made sure I registered for the next few weeks, but it was all right, I deserved it.
Q.  Are you going to the Black Eyed Peas tonight?
HUNTER MAHAN:  No, I'm tired.  A lot of football to watch, a lot of good games, so looking forward to that.  My mom is going to go, so it'll be good.
LAURY LIVSEY:  Thank you, Hunter.  Appreciate it.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT