THE BARCLAYS
August 24, 2014
Hunter Mahan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Fun to watch you play; how good did that feel?   You were on top from start to finish. 
HUNTER MAHAN:   I felt good out there.   Got off to a nice start, which was nice, and then from there just kept plugging away, plugging away and tried to hit greens to give myself some good looks.   Hit some great putts in the end.

Q.   How does it feel to get back in the winner's circle? 
HUNTER MAHAN:   I think two years isn't that long sometimes.   It may feel like forever but you've just got to keep working and that's what I kept doing this year.   And to get a result like this in a field like this and in a big spot like this, it feels great.

Q.   Wife and daughter were here, not sure your daughter knows what happened; this has to be special?
HUNTER MAHAN:   I think every player dreams about that, when you have a child, for them to come out on the green.   It wasn't the last group or anything but felt good to see them.   I haven't seen them in a week.   They always make everything special. 

Q.   And you're in the driver's seat now for the FedExCup, big win in the first event?
HUNTER MAHAN:   Well, I'm in the lead car.   I don't know if I'm in the driver's seat; a lot of golf to be played and a lot of great players.   It's just nice to kind of know that I'll play all the way to THE TOUR Championship, starting at 60 this week, so feels good.

Q.   And lastly The Ryder Cup, Tom Watson has to be looking at you now, don't you think? 
HUNTER MAHAN:   I   think so.   I mean, this game is all about winning.   You can have a great year and if you don't win, it just feels like you missed out on something, so to get a win and do it in a tournament like this in this kind of fashion with a 65 on Sunday feels great.

Q.   How special is it, you win at Barclays, you're leading in the FedExCup and your first win in quite some time, family is here, does it get any better than this? 
HUNTER MAHAN:   Definitely not.   I haven't played my best this year, so to get a win in an event like this and the timing that it was feels unbelievable, so I'm extremely proud of myself right now.

Q.   You played some superb golf today and you did what Ridgewood requires, you hit fairways and a lot of greens, and albeit you made it interesting on 18.   How does that bode for you moving forward in the FedExCup? 
HUNTER MAHAN:   Yeah, I felt great the last few weeks.   I had some success the last couple weeks.   The game was starting to come around.   Making some putts and making some 20‑footers and getting up‑and‑down here or there.   I knew this was around the corner but to do it and to do it today feels great.

Q.   The best you've finished in the FedEx is seventh a couple years ago and now you're leading.   Obviously huge chance and opportunity, three more tournaments to win this; what   that mean for you? 
HUNTER MAHAN:   Yeah, that   be obviously unbelievable, because you've got to play well during the FedExCup events and the whole year.   A lot of golf to be played and a lot of great players, so it should be fun.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT