PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 9, 2014
Hunter Mahan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  HUNTER MAHAN:   Obviously the conditions are allowing players to be aggressive out there today.   It's not blowing that hard.   Soft greens, still rolling really, really true.   I'm surprised actually how well the greens have been with all the rain and everything, and so many players walking on them.   They're rolling really, really well right now. 
There's a lot of good players here.   You are going to hit the fairways because the ball is not going to run through them.   They set it up a little bit easier today, seemed like front tee on 4, so basically everyone can hit that green.   There was a good round out there and played solid and made some birdies late, which was key.

Q.   (Inaudible)?
HUNTER MAHAN:   Yeah, yeah because I feel like I played pretty good the first couple of rounds.   A 3‑putt here and there, not getting up‑and‑down, missing a short birdie putt, you are going to lose ground on a field like this. 
Today it was really tidy and I got up and down when I had to and made those 10 to 15‑footers that are key in major championships. 

Q.   (Inaudible)?
HUNTER MAHAN:   Yeah, 100 percent.   You are getting just a little bit of roll.   You might get five to ten yards of roll instead of 20 or 30 yards on some of these holes.   That's probably the best defense for this course right now is the length of it. 
But there are still numerous par‑5s you can reach.   The par‑3s are good here, because you can be aggressive and you can attack them.   You still got to play pretty aggressive out here even though this is major championship.   The greens are rolling so good right now, you can make putts from anywhere.

Q.   (Inaudible)?
HUNTER MAHAN:   There were some tricky ones and some easier ones.   They had to move them today because of the weather.   Early on it was so damp and that rain, kind of right before I teed off around 10:15 or so, it really dumped.   So pins are going to be in some low spots.   They had to make a couple changes.   They were necessary. 

Q.   (Inaudible)?
HUNTER MAHAN:   Yeah, you know, I felt good the last couple of weeks.   I felt like my swing has been really nice, been rolling it really, really well. 
Today some of those putts that would have lipped out lipped in today.   Making those 10 to 15‑footers are what I need to do to shoot a good round and I was able to do that today and I haven't been able to do that in the last few weeks. 
Like I said, confidence is building every day.   I feel like I can just set up to the ball and go swing right now and not think too much. 

Q.   Are there going to be some low rounds out there today?
HUNTER MAHAN:   There could be.   With the heat the way it is right now, you could catch some mud balls and that's not going to help.   It's going to be tough to control the ball.   That's going to be one thing us players have to watch kind of today and tomorrow is the mud balls, try to figure out where the mud is and what the ball is going to do.
Absolutely, there's a ton of good players out there and you can make easily four or five, six, maybe even seven or eight birdies out there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT