CROWNE PLAZA INVITATIONAL AT COLONIAL
May 22, 2014
Hunter Mahan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Tough finish there, but otherwise a pretty solid round.   What worked for you out there? 
HUNTER MAHAN:   I played pretty good all day.   I mean, hit a lot of good iron shots.   I put the iron in my hand and I was making great swings.   The greens are so pure out here you can make a lot of putts, so I was able to putt the ball on a lot of greens and give myself a lot of looks.

Q.   What are you focused on going into tomorrow? 
HUNTER MAHAN:   Hitting good shots and trying to put the ball on the fairways.   Out of this rough it's kind of a guessing game.   You don't want to play from the rough here.   You don't have any control of your irons, so putting the ball in play off the tee and being aggressive.

Q.   Are you surprised at all that the scores aren't a little lower? 
HUNTER MAHAN:   I thought after‑‑ well, I thought in the morning I didn't think 3‑under would be leading.   I'm surprised the afternoon rounds are better than the morning rounds.   Usually that's flipped up, so it's a little strange.   But there were some tough pins out there, and this course plays fast.   The fairways kind of run out.

Q.   How'd you play today? 
HUNTER MAHAN:   I played good for the most part.   Hit a lot of good shots and felt pretty comfortable with the irons in my hands.   I was able to make a lot of great swings and have some short birdies and made some nice putts.   Everything feels good.   Just got to continue to put the ball in play out here, and then that could lead to being aggressive kind of going into the greens.

Q.   When the rest of the group is playing well, can good golf be contagious? 
HUNTER MAHAN:   Yes, I think so.   I think when everyone's got a good rhythm, guys are swinging well, guys are having a good time, it makes golf‑‑ I don't want to say easier‑‑ but it helps the morale and everything.   I had two good guys to play with every week, and we were playing well.   Just great pace, great rhythm in the round and everything.   So it was a fun day.

Q.   Obviously, probably not the finish you wanted, but is that easy to get over going into tomorrow? 
HUNTER MAHAN:   Yeah, I mean, you have three more days.   You have to get over it.   Playing professional golf, you're playing a ton of golf, and not all of it is going to be great.   So you learn to get over things and move on.

Q.   With that being said, you had a good day, but 18 seemed to give a couple guys a trip up there.   Talk to me about that? 
HUNTER MAHAN:   Yeah, you have to kind of hook it off the tee with whatever club you want to do that with.   You can hit iron off the tee, if you hook it will run down there.   It's all about the tee shot there and putting the ball in play.   It's kind of a Sunday pin, so that is kind of interesting.   But it's all about the drive there.   You get in position you're going to have a wedge or something in your hands and you can kind of be aggressive from there.

Q.   (Indiscernible) why is that do you think?   Is it the wind out there? 
HUNTER MAHAN:   You know, there is just enough wind to confuse you and make you second‑guess yourself.   This course is the easiest hard course we play all year, because you play it, and it's like you could shoot 5‑ or 6‑under like it's no big deal, and then tournament time comes around and all of a sudden the fairways get a little tighter.   Hitting the ball out of the rough is such a guessing game, and you can really put yourself in bad spots quickly.   So it's a course you've got to think around and you've got to hit it good.

Q.   What do you think about what Jordan has been able to do and this huge gallery he's been able to attract as well?   What's it like playing with him? 
HUNTER MAHAN:   I'm in awe.   His aura and his energy is amazing.   He's a good‑‑ this is really the first time I've played with him.   He's a guy who just sees what he wants to do and just kind of goes after it.   I don't think he‑‑ you know, he sees himself hitting great shots and he doesn't see the danger in anything and that's a great way to play golf.

Q.   Is it a little easier coming off a week off to get rejuvenated, I guess? 
HUNTER MAHAN:   It can be.   If you played great the week before, you'd rather be playing again and again.   But I played here last week a little bit to kind of see the course and I'm excited about this week.   This is a course I think a lot of guys love to play, and it's kind of an historic event for the PGA TOUR, so this is a place we all want to win, especially guys from the Dallas area or Texas area. 

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
HUNTER MAHAN:   It was good.   It was nice.   It's always exciting to see two guys you know that you're going to play with on Thursday and Friday, and maybe even have a good time with.   So we had a good time, good conversation, and I had a lot of fun out there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT