AT&T PEBBLE BEACH NATIONAL PRO-AM
February 7, 2014
Hunter Mahan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You finished at 8‑under right now?  
HUNTER MAHAN:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   How did it go?  
HUNTER MAHAN:   I played solid.   Hit a lot of good quality shots.   It's playing pretty tough out there.   To play Spyglass, it had gusty winds and the rain coming in and out, it's difficult.   Difficult to kind of predict what's going to happen out there.   
I made a lot of good swings.   I made some big putts kind of late.   So, it was a great performance by every part of my game, because it had to be to shoot a good round here today.  
   
 Q.   How do the conditions make a difference, really?  
HUNTER MAHAN:   Yeah, it was fine for most of the day until we kind of made the swing back going to the shore on the front nine there.   The wind started to pick up, started to rain, and then it started to really blow kind of on 5 and 6 there.   And 6 is a tough hole without any wind.   And it was difficult, but I was able to squeeze out some pars at the end, which is nice.  
   
 Q.   Any key saves today for you?  
HUNTER MAHAN:   No, I played really solid early.   Made some easy birdies on the par‑5s.   That's kind of key out here.   
And then made a nice up‑and‑down on 9 that was nice out of the bunker.   Made a really good putt.   And a good end of the round on that kind of note.  
   
 Q.   And how about tomorrow, looking ahead to tomorrow at playing Monterey tomorrow?  
HUNTER MAHAN:   Yeah, Monterey is a fun golf course.   Should be ‑‑ I'm looking forward to it, I enjoy playing there and same game plan, try to play well on the par‑5s and give myself a lot of putts.  
   
 Q.   Somebody wanted me to ask you about your socks.   Do you have any ‑‑  
HUNTER MAHAN:   Well I wore Under Armour socks.   They had an American flag on them.   It was American day.   So, with this going on, that was kind of a cool thing.  
   
 Q.   How did that come about?  
HUNTER MAHAN:   Well, I saw something in the tournament wanting people to wear colors from their country.   So, it's the only thing I had.   
   
 Q.   You made some good pars down the stretch.   How important is it on the harder course of the three to get those par saves?  
HUNTER MAHAN:   Yeah, coming up these last few holes are tough.   They're going uphill, they got the wind, it's getting cold, raining, you just don't want to throw away shots and maybe mental errors or something like that.   
So it's important to stay focused, very much in the moment, and not waste anything out here.   Because this can be a long week and it could be mentally more grinding than anything and you got to stay on top of your game out here.  
   
 Q.   Going to Augusta for a minute.   Talking about being on top of your game.   What is that like at Augusta, where do you need to be with that course and the way that course sets up?  
HUNTER MAHAN:   You need to be on the top of your game in every aspect.   It's going to test every part of your game.   And you need to have‑‑ you just can't waste any shots there around the greens with silly 3‑putts or anything like that.   
And that goes for any Major Championship.   But especially out there with the greens being so difficult.   It's easy to just kind of throw away shots.   And you can't do that in a Major.   There's just too many good players.  
   
 Q.   You talked about 15 being one of your favorite holes in the past.   Kind of the par‑5s again, scoring there, how important that in the Masters and at Augusta?  
HUNTER MAHAN:   You got to take advantage of the birdie holes when they're there, and the pins when they're there, and you can make the hole look really easy and really difficult at the same time.   It's a great risk/reward hole.   And being on 15 with only a few holes left, you can turn around your round pretty quickly and make a few birdies and turn it from even to 3‑under.   
So, I'm never out of it there at that golf course and you got to stay in it on every shot.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT