WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 1, 2014
Hunter Mahan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   It was a little bit of everything in that round, but 10 birdies, some impressive stuff. 
HUNTER MAHAN:   Yeah, I didn't know I had 10 birdies, but yeah, it was kind of up and down in the early part there and stayed calm, stayed focused on the next shot, just making good swings.
You know, the putter was really solid, but I gave myself some looks.   Rolled in a lot of nice putts. 

Q.   You played 4‑under at Farmers last week.   You're turning in the right direction.   What's been the key?
HUNTER MAHAN:   Patience, I guess, just keep on working every day and take the good from every round and try and build on each round and, you know, not beat myself up if I don't play well, just kind of keep on going.

Q.   You've won it here before.   What is it about this place which seems to tickle your fancy?
HUNTER MAHAN:   Well, I think it's a ball striker's place.   You have to be able to hit the fairways and gotta be able to hit greens and give yourself looks.   I know I can do that and I know I can give myself a lot of looks.   I have great speed for the greens right now.   I feel comfortable almost every putt.

Q.   Five in a row is good anywhere, even more fun here with some of those closing holes.   Just talk about 13 through 17 for us. 
HUNTER MAHAN:   Yeah, birdied 9 and 10 and then bogeyed 11, 12.   I felt like I stayed really patient and calm and going on to the next shot.   Was able to hit the green in two on 13.   Hit a great drive on 14.   Only had like 107 yards and hit it pretty close, had a pretty straight putt, made that.   Hit the green in two on the next hole, made a good two‑putt there and then hit a good sand wedge on 16 and had a very simple putt, made it. 
I think I played the holes, I wouldn't say the right way, but I was able to make it easy on myself.   Couple of two‑putt birdies and gave myself some good looks.   It's out there, but you just have to‑‑ sometimes it's harder to find than other days. 

Q.   (Indiscernible.)
HUNTER MAHAN:   I felt pretty good.   I felt like the putter has been the one thing I have been waiting on, but I've been hitting it pretty good, and if I can just kind of get a sense of the green and get a feel. 
And like I said, you know, I was hitting good shots in there, but I was leaving myself putts that just didn't really do much.   I felt good about my strokes.   I'm starting on line and not thinking about speed.   I've got a good feel for it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT