WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
January 30, 2014
Hunter Mahan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   We have you at 16 of 18 greens.   Really nice ball striking.   
HUNTER MAHAN:   Yeah, this is a place where you have to give yourself plenty of looks and plenty of chances.   There's a lot of good players (indiscernible).   
   
 Q.   As a former champion, you have to have a lot of good memories here.   
HUNTER MAHAN:   Yeah, it's a fun place to play.   (Indiscernible.)   It's a nice list to be a part of.   (Indiscernible.)  
   
 Q.   So do you embrace the crowd?   Is that something you look forward to or something you tolerate?  
HUNTER MAHAN:   You better embrace it, because it's not going anywhere.   Yeah, you have to enjoy it, play with them a little bit.  
You can't take it too hard if they're going to boo you.   You just enjoy it, because it is a great place for golf.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible.)   Such a dramatic six months for you, a new baby and a new house.   Apparently you found some time to practice?  
HUNTER MAHAN:   Yeah, I'm getting my golfing legs back, I guess.   Taking so much time off was good, it was needed, and I feel good.   (Indiscernible.)   
I want to make sure I come back to the season and get excited and be ready and prepared.  
   
 Q.   It was a great round.   (Indiscernible.)   I think it was your first start of the wraparound season?  
HUNTER MAHAN:   Yes, it was.   Like you said, it wasn't easy, but I was consistent and hit a lot of greens and a lot of fairways.   (Indiscernible.)   I was able to shoot a solid round without having to work too hard.   
   
 Q.   You won back in 2010.   Do you feel they embrace you more after you've stepped into the winner's circle here?  
HUNTER MAHAN:   I think it's a year‑by‑year and a hole‑by‑hole and a shot‑by‑shot basis here, especially rolling through 16 and 17.   But it's a lot of fun.   There's nothing better than hitting a great shot there and rolling in the putt.  
   
 Q.   5‑under par today.   Great start to the tournament.   
HUNTER MAHAN:   Yeah, it was a good start.   I put myself in a lot of good spots, capitalized on a lot of the easier holes, stayed out of trouble on the tougher ones.  
   
 Q.   The environment on 16.   It's the easy day.   It gets a little tougher on Friday and Saturday.   Talk about the crowd, just what it is.   
HUNTER MAHAN:   Yeah, we have Friday evening tomorrow, and that's going to be interesting.   A lot of late arrivals.  
But it's fun.   There's nothing better than hitting a great shot there and then rolling in the putt.   The crowd is unlike any other crowd on tour.   
Each year they seem to do something a little bit different and a little bit more and it's a little more amped up.   
It's good.   It's good for golf.  
   
 Q.   As a former winner here, do you like the environment, the ambience it provides?  
HUNTER MAHAN:   Yeah, it's really that one kind of hole, one area, so it's not everywhere.  
This is probably one of the more popular spots on tour for the guys, and, you know, enjoy coming here.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT