DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 7, 2015
Hunter Mahan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. A tricky day out there.  You got off to an excellent start.  Through the first 7 holes it was all going as planned?
HUNTER MAHAN: Yeah, I really played solid 1 through 18.  A few bogeys, but you're going to make bogeys in this game and on a golf course like this.  Even the bogeys I made I hit great putts and they just didn't go in.  Under par today in conditions like this, obviously I moved quite a bit up there.  It was a good day.
Q. Would you like to play golf courses like this every week?
HUNTER MAHAN: This was a fantastic test.  I shot 7-under yesterday and 1-under today.  And I don't feel like there was a big difference.  It played tough today.  The wind was up.  It was definitely playing firmer.  It was tough to get close to the hole.  This was a great golf course.
Q. How did the putter go?
HUNTER MAHAN: It was great.  Every putt I hit I thought was going to go in.  And this one looked good the whole way and just grabbed that lip.  That was one of those bonus birdies right there.
Q. We did a quiz at the start of the week.  And the question was:  Which player has played every FedExCup event.  And two or three knew it was you.  The FedExCup rankings for you look better.  You're 56, you're playing next week, or the week after, and that's the key thing.
HUNTER MAHAN: I'm excited about my game.  What I'm doing.  I played good at Conway Farms last time I was there.  Great golf course.  It's a great test.  Really looking forward to next week and hopefully continuing this streak.
Q. With the momentum you have now, any way you wish you were going in a few days to Conway Farms?
HUNTER MAHAN: No, I'm happy for the rest and the break and to gather all my energy for the next couple of weeks, figure out what I need to do to play great and just kind of execute it.
Q. You turned up here at TPC Boston, and that's with one thing on your mind, that's to make sure you head to Chicago and you've done that with a top-5 this week.
HUNTER MAHAN: Yep.  Happy with the way I played, especially on the weekend.  Hit a lot of great clutch shots when I had to.  It could have been a lot better.  I'm excited about my game and looking forward to a week off and kind of reassessing everything and figuring out what I'm going to do and looking forward to Chicago.
Q. You're projected 56th in the FedExCup standings, and top-30 gets you into Atlanta.  How proud are you that have played in every FedExCup event since it began nine years ago?
HUNTER MAHAN: Yeah, I'm very proud of that.  It's been the last guy standing.  There's been a lot of great players that have played this game in that time, and that means I've been consistent.  It's the goal of every player to be in The TOUR Championship at the end of the year.  I'm proud of that and I want to continue that this year.
Q. You had a steady finish today.  How important is that to get a good steady finish?
HUNTER MAHAN: Yeah, this is the playoffs right now, and a lot can change and a lot can happen.  You've got to keep your head up and keep moving.
This was a difficult day today.  I shot 1-under and moved up quite a bit.  One of those days that you've got to keep your head up and keep grinding away.  Happy that I played the way that I did and to hit the shots that I needed to hit.
Q. You moved up 35 spots.  Another big finish like this you end up in The TOUR Championship.
HUNTER MAHAN: That's the goal.  That's what I'm trying to do.  I've got to keep doing kind of what I've done this week.  It's a good formula and keep working at it.
Q. Hunter, this streak continues.  How relieved are you to be heading to Chicago?
HUNTER MAHAN: Very relieved.  It was tough out there.  Some pivotal shots that you had to hit.  And I was able to hit them and hit them solid and made some good putts down the stretch.  This was a great test for me today and I feel like I did a great job of maintaining my composure and just focusing on what was in front of me.
Q. What was the stress level, especially on the weekend, knowing that you had to put together 6-, 7- , 8-under to have a chance?
HUNTER MAHAN: Yeah, the stress was fine at the start of the week.  I knew I just had to play good.  It wasn't very complicated.  After yesterday I knew I had a legitimate chance.  I put myself in a great spot today.  With the wind and the course being firmer it was difficult.  And I hit the shots that I needed to hit to put myself in good spots.
Q. How do you keep this going moving forward?
HUNTER MAHAN: I know what to do.  It's just something that's hard to do sometimes.  It's hard to go out there and play the way you need to play, not from a technique point of view, just from a grinding, from a mental perspective.  I did that this week and I have to keep that up.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT