THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 11, 2013
Hunter Mahan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Take me through the bad news first, 17, the putt on 17.   
HUNTER MAHAN:   I just didn't hit it hard enough.   I mean, I kind of started going up and then running away from me, and I just never got it there.   Kind of silly.   
And then I had a pretty good next putt, but I just didn't make it.  
   
 Q.   And 18 obviously after the drive, you had the choice, right?  
HUNTER MAHAN:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   Was your mind made up you were going to finish?  
HUNTER MAHAN:   Yeah.   They told us we start 7:10 or something like that.   Gosh, it just didn't seem like‑‑ it wasn't going to make any difference how we were going to play the hole or whatnot, and I'm warmed up, ready to go, didn't see the point of waking up at 5:30.   It's not that dark.  
   
 Q.   Where were you, the cart path?  
HUNTER MAHAN:   I was up against the cart path.   I dropped it.   It was close enough‑‑ I was on the left side of the cart path but it was basically sitting right next to it, so I took my drop and I took it pretty close to where my kind of free relief was at that point, and there was a perfect gap there, and it's kind of one of those times where it's just time to put a good swing on it and get it up there.   I had 195 or so and hit a 4‑iron.   I had a pretty good uphill slope so we knew it was going to shoot straight up in the air into the wind, and just tried to make a good swing.   As soon as I hit it, I flushed it and I saw the start line.   It's like, it can't be that bad and it's not going to go in the water, so it's good.  
   
 Q.   The wild stretch of weather, I don't know where you were, there was a gust, 40, 50 miles an hour‑‑  
HUNTER MAHAN:   I'll tell you where I was.   I was hoping my ball was going to come out of a tree.   That's where I was.   I was on 15 and just pulled my drive a little bit, and it kind of went into the tree and I don't know really moved up there, so we were kind of‑‑ so I had to find my ball up in a tree and find‑‑ make sure it was my ball, identify it, and so we had cameras and stuff, and literally when I dropped it, it was just like pine needles and sand and stuff was flying everywhere and it was blowing like crazy.   The wind is obviously a little different than what it started out to be today.  
   
 Q.   So everything came out of the tree except your ball?  
HUNTER MAHAN:   Everything came‑‑ I thought the wind started really blowing, I was hoping it would blow my ball out.  
   
 Q.   So you made double at 15?  
HUNTER MAHAN:   Yeah, I had to take an unplayable and all that stuff, eagled 16 and made the silliest bogey in the world on 17.  
   
 Q.   It had to be one of the wildest 45‑minute stretches of golf.   
HUNTER MAHAN:   It was the wildest last four holes.   
fa  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT