DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 6, 2015
Hunter Mahan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 64 in the third round for Hunter Mahan.  We talked earlier in the week, and you said you're not looking at the struggles of this year but trying to move forward.  How did you do out here today?
HUNTER MAHAN: Yeah, that's part of my focus all week, just trying to get better every day, and trying to find something on the golf course that kind of calms me down and gets me focused on playing one shot at a time.  I had a good attitude walking into today and found something in the golf swing, just a key of rhythm, to square up the club face and got me in good flow early.
Q. This is the guy that I used to play golf with.  That was a lot of fun watching you today.
HUNTER MAHAN: Yeah, that felt familiar.  It felt great to get out there and just play golf.  And not worry about anything other than the shot at hand and just trying to be confident in that and trust what I'm doing.
Q. You've played in them all, you know that, you know you're the last man standing, though.
HUNTER MAHAN: Yeah, it's the goal of every player every year to get through the FedExCup and get to The TOUR Championship.  I've got some work to do this year.  I'm just trying to play tomorrow for tomorrow and enjoy it and figure out how to keep this momentum going.
Q. Is there one thing that you found that's a little different than what's been going on this year?
HUNTER MAHAN: No, it's like anything, it's just a puzzle of putting one piece and another piece and another piece, and keep grinding away at it.  And it comes down to trust, and trusting what I'm doing and trusting the swing and trusting the shots out there.  Sometimes you just have to suck it up and hit a good shot, and I felt like I did that today.
Q. Can you just kind of explain finding your form that could lead to a round like today?
HUNTER MAHAN: Just continuous work.  Kind of midpoint of the year we had to take a step back, to figure out where I was going, figure out what I needed to do to get better.  It started after the U.S. Open.  You have to keep grinding away at it.  It's hard not to look at results and not get frustrated.  At times I did.  But you just have to keep trying to get better and keep seeing the big picture.  And you know in golf you can struggle for a time, but all of a sudden you play great for three years.  I'm looking at the long-term of things, and figuring out how to play my best golf every single day, and especially on Saturdays and Sundays, when it really matters.
Q. How important is this streak to you?
HUNTER MAHAN: It's something I want to continue.  How important is it?  I don't know how to -- I'm trying as hard as I can.  I'm very proud of it.  I feel like it's a sense of accomplishment to be the last person to have played in every single one of them.  I know it's my goal every year to get to The TOUR Championship and have a chance to win the FedExCup.  And the great thing about it is it does give guys like myself who are kind of further back an opportunity to really move up there and have a chance.  If you do win or place highly up there, you never know what can happen in Atlanta.
I feel good about the game, I have to keep working.  Plenty of work to do tomorrow.  I might have to shoot even a 3- or 4- or 5-under round tomorrow to continue on to Chicago.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT