THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 9, 2013
Hunter Mahan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Bogey‑free out there.   You've got to feel pretty good. 
HUNTER MAHAN:   Yeah, I played great today.   I hit it just awesome tee to green, a lot of fairways, a lot of greens.   I didn't really have really stress out there.   I think I had to make a six‑footer maybe on 14, and that was about it.   Other than that I was just tapping in all day or making birdies.

Q.   How important is it to you to get off to a good start like this? 
HUNTER MAHAN:   Yeah, you know, it's‑‑ you don't want to put any undue pressure on yourself.   The first round you can't really win it or lose it today, but with the morning conditions being so good, you want to make some birdies, you want to kind of put yourself up there for right now because you know it's going to be a difficult three days.

Q.   Did the course play any different than it did the last couple practice rounds?
HUNTER MAHAN:   No, it's been very consistent.   Greens might have firmed up a little bit, but the course is in fantastic shape.   It's progressively going to get a little harder and faster with the temperatures being so good.   But the course is in perfect shape. 

Q.   Did you look at a board and see Stallings 5‑under through 3 or something like that?
HUNTER MAHAN:   I did, I saw 4‑under through 4.   That's some good golf right there, and then I saw Castro 6‑under through 8 or something like that.   Birdies were in bunches out there. 

Q.   You've had a string of maybe not great results.   What was going on with you, Houston to right after the Masters? 
HUNTER MAHAN:   I think I wasn't physically hitting it, doing a lot of great things, I just wasn't scoring as well.   I think I was just trying too hard.   I was trying to do a lot.   I was trying to be this golfer that I picture myself being, and I can't do it in one day and I can't do it in one week or two weeks or three weeks.   I'm just trying to play golf and get better every day and not really worry‑‑ not really try to reach that limit of who I should be right now, I'm just trying to play golf and get better and realize that it's a process and things can change so fast.   You just have to allow yourself to let it happen, and I feel like that's what I'm doing.   I played great last week, I just didn't score.   I have to allow myself to go out there and play golf.

Q.   How long did that 82 at Augusta stay with you?   Did that bug you at all?
HUNTER MAHAN:   Not really.   I didn't even know what I shot at the end of the day.

Q.   You signed for it. 
HUNTER MAHAN:   Well, individual scores were correct.   I didn't really add it up.   After a certain point you know you're going to miss the cut, and it was just‑‑ it didn't really matter.   I didn't think about it very long.

Q.   It was shocking for us to see it. 
HUNTER MAHAN:   Yeah, I think it made me‑‑ I think it just made me kind of stop and think about what I'm doing.   If I make the cut and finish 40th I don't think I stop and try to make changes and realize kind of what was going on.   I was kind of playing okay for while but I was still kind of going down the wrong path. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT