WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 24, 2013
Hunter Mahan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How would you best describe the conditions you were playing in today?  
HUNTER MAHAN:   Difficult to say the least.   I mean, it's extremely cold and windy.   On a golf course like this where kind of accuracy is premium, and the wind the way it's blowing, it's difficult out there.  
   
 Q.   What's the most challenging aspect of the game in these conditions?   
HUNTER MAHAN:   Gosh, I think just‑‑ I think it's just commitment level on each shot, with the wind that's blowing so strong, you've really got to know where you want to miss it and where you want to leave yourself for an angle for a chip or a putt or whatever, and you've got to be so committed out there, you can't have any doubts.  
   
 Q.   What do you think it'll be like out there with Matt?   
HUNTER MAHAN:   He's not very fun to play with (laughter), so that sucks.   But it's going to be great.   He's a great guy, he's a great competitor.   I picture us‑‑ hopefully hitting a lot of fairways greens and just kind of letting the other person make mistakes and not being overly aggressive the way it's playing right now.   But he's a great guy to play with.   I know we're going to have fun.  
   
 Q.   Do you lean on the experience of last year when you won this championship over Rory McIlroy, or is this completely different?  
HUNTER MAHAN:   Yeah, I don't know how that's going to help me, last year.   That was a long time ago.   I know I'm playing well.   That's the best thing I have going for me.   My short game and putting are great right now, and those are things I'm probably going to have to lean on this afternoon.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
HUNTER MAHAN:   Yeah, I'll tell you what, it's easy to get up for Ian because he's so good in match play.   He's such a competitor.   He's never going to be out of a hole.   He's always going to find a way.   Today I played really well, got up‑and‑down from a lot of tough spots, and my short game definitely carried me today.  
   
 Q.   You talked about the improvement in your short game, how hard you've been working on it.   Talk us through that chip‑in at 12.   
HUNTER MAHAN:   100 percent.   I needed a great shot just to keep it on the green, probably unlucky.   I hit it over, and I thought if I hit it over it wasn't going to be too hard an up‑and‑down hitting into the wind.   It looked perfect as soon as I hit it and it just trickled in, so it was obviously a big turning point.  
   
 Q.   How taxing has this been both mentally and physically?  
HUNTER MAHAN:   Physical, not too bad.   It's part of golf.   We're all athletes, we prepare ourselves for stuff like this.   The mental part, I think it's easier just because it's match play.   You hit one bad shot, you forget about it, move on to the next.   You don't lose by two or three, you just lose by one and move on.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
HUNTER MAHAN:   Yeah, probably a little bit of that.   I was just in the lead so much I felt comfortable there, and I've just been attacking and being aggressive, and just got to keep doing what I've been doing.  
   
 Q.   Thoughts on playing Matt Kuchar?  
HUNTER MAHAN:   He's consistent.   He's going to hit probably a lot of solid shots, put the ball on the fairway and on the green.   He has a tremendous short game.   I'm going to have to play my best, no doubt.  
   
 Q.   Got a good feeling?  
HUNTER MAHAN:   I feel great.   I'm excited about my game.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT