AT&T PEBBLE BEACH NATIONAL PRO-AM
February 8, 2013
Hunter Mahan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Just go through your round, what was good and what was bad? 
HUNTER MAHAN:   Well, I hit it good.   Hit it solid off the tee and I think I hit every green.   I just couldn't quite take advantage of the par 5s.   I had plenty of opportunities today.   I just couldn't make putts.   I had a funky ruling there, but you know, had a funky ruling on 7 and made double and then come back and birdie 8 and 9 was huge to finish the round off in that way.   Hit a lot of good quality shots. 
I feel good about the game right now and what I'm doing. 

Q.   Can you kind of go through that ruling? 
HUNTER MAHAN:   Yeah, I had a putt and it was‑‑ the greens are totally‑‑ they are just a lot of footprints and everything, and the ball was sitting there fine.   Seemed like I took the putter back and it just rolled over in like a heel print or something.   You know, I didn't feel like I moved it.   I didn't feel like I had anything much to do with it moving but you know, it's kind of just a rub of the green, so had to go back and take a penalty.

Q.   How far out were you? 
HUNTER MAHAN:   A couple feet.   So it was a putt for 3 and then taking a penalty shot and made that.   That was frustrating, because I was hitting it so good and had a good opportunity before that, but you know, to come back the way I did, maybe you know, on 8, one of the tougher holes out here, and to birdie that and 9 was good.   Could have been pretty upset but feel some momentum and looking forward to the weekend.

Q.   Are you surprised about where the scores are?   They are really not going anywhere?
HUNTER MAHAN:   Yeah, you know, there's probably‑‑ hard to tell how the wind is going but it's so cold, and the ball just doesn't go that far.   And it was soft.   That course was super soft today over here at Monterey Peninsula, so I'm not totally surprised the scores are not great but some guys are playing well.   I feel like I had the opportunity to shoot 4‑ or 5‑under today but it takes a little bit of luck out here sometimes.

Q.   Early on you had a pretty impressive shot under a tree to three feet or so.   Were you trying to go for the flag?
HUNTER MAHAN:   Yeah, I hit a bad drive left and was in a bunker and got very lucky.   I had a great lie in the bunker.   Got close enough to the tree to where my trajectory wasn't going to be a problem. 
I think we had 125 and the wind was basically coming straight in on us, and it wasn't that hard a shot.   I just had to make clean contact with it and put just a kind of bit of draw spin so the wind would move it to the hole and it came out great.   Came out a couple feet short of the hole and able to roll it in, so it was nice.

Q.   And thoughts on Spyglass tomorrow?
HUNTER MAHAN:   Yeah, Spyglass is a great course.   You know, it usually plays pretty soft, so we kind of expect that.   But you know, it's a good test.   You know, so I look forward to it and I know it's in good shape, so it should be a fun test and I'm excited to play.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT