AT&T PEBBLE BEACH NATIONAL PRO-AM
February 5, 2013
Hunter Mahan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talk about your season so far.   
HUNTER MAHAN:   Yeah, I feel pretty good.   I have actually done a couple things that I'm really excited about, and so I'm happy where things are right now and excited about the prospect of the upcoming tournaments and the upcoming year.   I'm excited about this week.   I always look forward to playing Pebble, so it's always fun.  
   
 Q.   Do you think fans, especially fans of golf and stuff like that, just look at wins and victories, sounds like you see some good things happening?  
HUNTER MAHAN:   Yeah, you can't judge things on such a flat line level, in each sport really.   You always have to take the little victories.   I take a lot of victories from the last couple weeks.   
Always trying to improve and keep getting better and not be stuck in results and I should have done this and I should have done that.   This is a game we play way too much golf and way too many tournaments to be bogged down by one result or one week.   
   
 Q.   How does this tournament fit into your schedule?   You shot 62 at Pebble one year.   
HUNTER MAHAN:   Yeah, I think this is always kind of a maybe for some guys.   I just like being at Pebble.   There's no place you'd rather be when the weather's good and you're out playing.   I think it's a special course.   
You know, I think AT&T has done a great job of making this more pleasing to players and they run a great event and Monterey is fantastic and Spyglass is fantastic.   Like I said, I enjoy playing this event, it's a lot of fun and being a California guy, I always enjoy being in California.   
   
 Q.   Defending your title at the Accenture Match Play Championship in a couple weeks, what's kind of your mind‑set going into an event like that where you could play for five days or you could go home in 3 1/2 hours; how does that work?   
HUNTER MAHAN:   Yeah, I think you just take it one day at a time.   You really take it one shot at a time.     I mean, like you said, you could play great, like the first round, I could have gotten beat by a ton of guys.   
But I got through it and then I started to get into a rhythm.   You just have to keep fighting at that tournament and just trying to focus on one shot and hit the best shot you can and move on and forget the past.     
   
 Q.   Is it harder to win a tournament like a match‑play tournament than beating 156 guys or are they just different?   
HUNTER MAHAN:   It's just different task.   I think it's harder to maybe repeat or something like that because of the unknowns and who you play.   You could play great, better than anybody, except for one guy, and that's the guy that beats you.   Your goal isn't to shoot the best score‑‑ it is to shoot the best score but you're just trying to beat that guy.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT