HYUNDAI TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS
January 5, 2013
Hunter Mahan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  CHRIS REIMER:   Just talk about the decision, a lot of waiting around today but ultimately you'll come back tomorrow and try to get 36 and then 18?   
HUNTER MAHAN:   Yeah, obviously a difficult situation.   
But you know, with these gusts in excess of 40 miles an hour, the ball is basically just moving on its own with the wind and a certain few holes being as exposed as they are and the slope on the greens and everything, it would be difficult for some of the balls to stay on the green at a certain time; and that doesn't make for good golf and good scores or fun for anybody to be out there right now.  
CHRIS REIMER:   Does it change the way you're going to play tomorrow, knowing it's more of a sprint, 36 holes, and then 18, you get hot, or do you just play the same way.  
HUNTER MAHAN:   You're going to just play the same.   It's going to be difficult no matter what.   The wind is going to be up and it's going to be gusty, so you have to be patient and pick your spots to be aggressive at.   But I don't think it really changes anyone's kind of frame of mind right now.   
   
 Q.   Speaking for the 30 men in the field this week, could you describe the overall mood of the players?   
HUNTER MAHAN:   Yeah, I think it's disappointing but it's kind of to be expected.   We knew the weather really wasn't getting any better.   I think we are all kind of‑‑ it's difficult.   We are in such a cool place and we can't really do much.   It's strange when you go down the road ten minutes or 15, 20 minutes and it's great, it looks beautiful over there but for some reason right here, it's tough.   
It's difficult to figure out if you want to go hit balls right now or wait till later or what you want to do.   I think we all are trying to figure out what's to do and what's the best plan for us to get ready for the next two days or three days.  
   
 Q.   Is there frustration setting in of terms of wanting to get going?  
HUNTER MAHAN:   No, I don't think so.   We have all experienced delays before, and so we are all kind of used to this.   I think that frustration part was just waiting and waiting and waiting.   Since we have a decision, everyone can kind of move on now.     
   
 Q.   Any regrets about deciding to open your season here?   
HUNTER MAHAN:   No.   There's no regrets.   This is place everyone wants to start the year at and this is a great place to be and they take great care of us.   
You know, it's still a beautiful place and I think we are all excited to be here and it's just an anomaly and kind of a freak thing.   
   
 Q.   Were you surprised about playing today, from the time you got here?   
HUNTER MAHAN:   There's moments looking outside but it's difficult, because you still have to get the course ready in the morning and I'm sure there was debris in the course from last night and everything.   
It's so difficult, there are times it looked good, but you get one gust out here and the ball starts moving off the green, 30 feet, you know, it's difficult.   These gusts are really making it difficult.   It seems like most of the time it's okay.   But these tradewinds are pretty strong, so it's pretty difficult and you can't predict anything out here.   I think that's the hardest part.  
   
 Q.   What did you do yesterday?   Did you get to the green?   
HUNTER MAHAN:   We were on the green actually.   Put my ball down and it had some good guests and it moved a couple feet.   I think we knew we were in trouble then.   
And then watching on TV, watching some of the guys play the first few holes, you're like, I can't believe we even got on the tee box the way it was playing out there and Carl hitting his putt.   And Dufner, it was just unbelievable.   You didn't have to hit the ball for it to just get out of hand.  
   
 Q.   The birdie putt you had, that doesn't count‑‑  
HUNTER MAHAN:   It was like 30 feet I guess.   Zach had 40 feet and I thought he hit a pretty good putt and it went ten feet by the hole, on the first hole, and that's not really that exposed of a hole.   You knew if a few guys started making the turn around 9 and 10, it was going to be really difficult to say the least.   
   
 Q.   Not much to write about.   Do you think you would have made the putt?   
HUNTER MAHAN:   I hit the first putt but I left it short.   But I would have made the next one for sure.  
   
 Q.   What did you do to pass the time this morning?   
HUNTER MAHAN:   Played on my phone and ate three times and talked to the guys.   Luckily it's not a big group so it's not a huge eating area which is good.   We all just kind of chitchat and everything and speculation.   Just wondering, just kind of sitting around doing nothing.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT