RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 23, 2015
Hunter Mahan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How was your round?HUNTER MAHAN: Really good.  Getting off to a great start.  Kind of hit some fairways.  Didn't put it where I needed to a few times, but hit it really solid and gave myself a lot of good looks.  Could have been better, but I hit a lot of really good putts.  With the wind the way it is and the way the course is playing with the firmness, it's difficult.  You have to pay attention to your approach shots or you can put yourself in bad spots. So it was really solid, and gave myself a lot of birdie putts which is what I want to do out here.Q. How much of an advantage was the morning tee time for you today?HUNTER MAHAN: Yeah, I think when you have Thursday, Friday rounds you hope they're even.  You don't want to get a bad tee time and have tougher conditions than the other wave.  I think it will be pretty consistent which is good.  I expect it to be tough tomorrow afternoon, but it's nice to get off to a good start, and especially in the a.m. when the greens are so pure.Q. That's three straight solid rounds here in Glen Abbey for you?HUNTER MAHAN: Yeah, yeah.  Maybe I'll get a trophy if I play well tomorrow.  But, yeah, I said this place is in great shape this week.  I've played well with my game.  I'm excited about playing here.  I've just got to keep going out there and enjoy playing golf.Q. Does it feel like the first round of a tournament just with how many people are out there, or did you expect this many people for a Thursday?HUNTER MAHAN: Yeah, great crowds.  They always come out.  We're so close to a major city, and there are so many golf fans around here.  I think Glen Abbey is a great viewing spot too.  You know, we were right next to Bubba, so there was a great little string of players there. So I had a great feeling out there, especially coming up 18, even as early as it was it still had a good vibe to it.  This will be a great week and a great venue for Canada.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT