AT&T NATIONAL
June 28, 2012
Hunter Mahan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Can you describe how the course was playing differently conditions wise now as opposed to the Open last year?
HUNTER MAHAN:   Well, we haven't had any rain.   It's perfect weather.   Well, let me rephrase that.   It's going to be hot this coming weekend, so the course is in unbelievable shape right now.   It's perfect as it gets from the rough perspective, and the greens are rolling very true.   You know, it's playing similar, but this is probably tougher I would think. 

Q.   You've played well here in the past.   Does that help you psychologically when you go out, knowing that you can go low here?
HUNTER MAHAN:   Well, I feel comfortable here.   This golf course sets up well for me.   I'm a good driver of the ball, good iron player, so I hit a lot of fairways and greens and avoid a lot of trouble out here.   I get excited when I come here.   It's a course I like. 
But this is a different golf course than years past.   They've kept all the same rough lines and obviously the same tee boxes and stuff, but they're using all the tee boxes.   It's somewhat of a different golf course. 

Q.   What did you think at 6?   Did you think you were wet?
HUNTER MAHAN:   Yeah, I thought I was.   I thought it was going to land on the green, which it did, but after that I had no idea what was behind there.   The water is to the right, it doesn't really wrap behind it.   But as soon as I hit, I thought it was going to be wet. 

Q.   You've played a lot of rounds in extreme heat.   Looking at tomorrow and Saturday, where does that affect golfers, psychologically, physically, both?
HUNTER MAHAN:   Well, once it becomes physical it becomes psychological and mental, and you can make mental mistakes if you're tired.   It can affect you physically just to swing it.   If you're tired and you're not hydrated, it's going to be tough, and you've got to hydrate yourself the night before, not just that day or it'll be too late.   You've got to take care of yourself and realize what's going to happen and get your work in but rest at the same time and prepare for it mentally because it's just going to be hot, and you just have to wear the appropriate clothing and focus when you're supposed to focus and not waste energy.

Q.   What do you think when you just kind of walk along and see a leaderboard and see a lot of +1s and +2s sitting around 13th place?
HUNTER MAHAN:   I told Wood when we were on 18 green, I said, for two and a half hours of golf, if 90 percent of the field is over par, you know it's playing tough.   You can tell it's just tough.   There's not a whole lot of birdie holes.   You have to hit two good shots.   You're not going to get lucky around here.   You know, you've really got to be smart and know the scores are going to be tough and not be overly aggressive.   You can't afford to make silly bogeys if you have an opportunity to make a birdie.

Q.   Did you play better than 70 do you think?
HUNTER MAHAN:   I did, yeah.   I hit it great.   I was never in trouble.   I didn't make any small par putts today.   I mean, it was a pretty easy 70 if there's such a thing.   I felt comfortable out there, and like I said, I wasn't stressed out there.   I didn't really have any‑‑ I didn't have to save a lot of holes.   I was just hitting a lot of fairways, a lot of greens, and struck it really nice.

Q.   Did you have any bogeys?
HUNTER MAHAN:   One bogey, yeah, 14. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT