U.S. JUNIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 21, 2017
Rayhan Thomas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You were down early but then you came back.  What turned the match for you?
RAYHAN THOMAS: The putt on 12 was huge for me because I was 1-down at that time, had missed a lot of putts, and just holed a six-footer on 12, which was huge, for par and to win that hole.  And then 13 I holed a nine-footer for birdie to halve, and then 14 I holed a seven-footer for par to win the hole, so those three holes were just key, to hole those putts at a time when I was missing a lot of putts.
Q. And then you clinched the match on the par-3, 17th?
RAYHAN THOMAS: Yeah, I hit a really good shot but it was about a yard too far left, and then it rolled down the hill almost into the hazard, but it was just in the rough, so it was not too bad, and then he hit one into the water, which took the pressure off.
Q. So you got a conceded par?
RAYHAN THOMAS: Yeah, I got a conceded par.
Q. What was good about your play again today?
RAYHAN THOMAS: Iron play.  Iron play was solid.  I didn't miss much off the tee and on the greens.  Apart from missing some short putts, I hit my irons solid, so iron play again.
Q. We talked about how excited you were to be in the quarterfinals.  How excited are you to be in the semifinals?
RAYHAN THOMAS: Yeah, I'm always excited.  I mean, every day I'm playing I'm excited.  Every day I can survive this championship I'm excited.  I'm definitely excited.
Q. There's only been four international champions in this U.S. Junior Amateur.  One of them was last year, Min Woo Lee from Australia.  What would it mean to you to be an international champion of this championship?
RAYHAN THOMAS: Yeah, I mean, international champion or any type of champion is just -- you feel great to represent your country and to represent the international team.  It means a lot to be in this position to actually win the championship.  Yeah, just means a lot, and I'll give it my best.
Q. Since this is your first USGA championship, what do you think has helped you prepare for this moment to be ready?
RAYHAN THOMAS: Just all the years of hard work and just advice from my coach, Justin Parsons, my dad, just all that accumulated to come to this point, and we'll see how it goes this week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT