U.S. JUNIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2017
Rayhan Thomas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You actually had an eagle on the 6th hole; is that true?  
RAYHAN THOMAS: Yeah, I did have an eagle on the 6th.  Good driver to 20 feet and holed it.   
 Q.  Drove the green?  
RAYHAN THOMAS: Drove the green, 20 feet, and holed it.   
 Q.  What did you hit off the tee at 6?  
RAYHAN THOMAS: On 6, driver.   
 Q.  So that's a heck of a way to get started?  
RAYHAN THOMAS: Yeah, it was good.  I started off with I won the first hole, and then he was playing pretty solid.  I missed a short putt on 3, and then I was going pretty steady.  After 6, I sort of just took control of the game.   
 Q.  Then you birdied 7.  How did you do that?  
RAYHAN THOMAS: I hit it an 8-iron to about 15 feet and he was out of the hole.  So just picked it up.   
 Q.  He conceded that?  
RAYHAN THOMAS: Yeah.   
 Q.  Then he's still in the match, and then you go on a run where you win four holes in a row, 9 through 12?  
RAYHAN THOMAS: Oh, I guess it's still (Inaudible), but, yeah, 9.   
 Q.  The first three for birdies I'm not sure if they were all conceded or not?  
RAYHAN THOMAS: 9, I made birdie on.  I hit an 8-iron from 183 to about 12 feet and holed it.  Then 10 I hit a 9-iron to 15 feet, was conceded.  11, conceded like a seven-footer, hit a 4-iron to the green, two-putted.  Then 12, 12 was a par.   
 Q.  Yeah, 12 was a par.  
RAYHAN THOMAS: But it was conceded, because he hit it into the rough on the left and the bushes on the right.   
 Q.  The fact that you're in this position where you've made the quarterfinals, and you really have not played a lot in United States, are you surprised you're in this position?  
RAYHAN THOMAS: No, not surprised at all.  I worked hard and did all I could to get into this position.  After stroke play I knew I had what it takes to maybe win this event.  So not surprised at all.   
 Q.  Where does all your confidence come from, since you haven't played a lot in the United States?  
RAYHAN THOMAS: Just from previous tournaments, not the fact that I haven't played in Unites States, but at other tournaments I've done well.  Last year I did really well.  I won a professional event on my home tour there.   
Yeah, just confidence of that and just the hard work I've put in to get here.   
 Q.  So have you played a lot around the world?  
RAYHAN THOMAS: Yeah, I have.  So it would be like in June I went to the British Am, and then I played this tour called the MENA Tour back home, so that takes me to Thailand, Morocco, all over the Middle East and stuff like that.  And this year I'll be going to New Zealand in October, Malaysia, maybe, in November.  So pretty packed schedule.   
 Q.  Since you're new to us and the United States, what is the strongest part of your game do you think?  
RAYHAN THOMAS: Iron play, for sure.  My iron play is very solid.   
 Q.  What makes it so good?  
RAYHAN THOMAS: It's just there is not a big miss.  It's always within about 25 feet.  The worst shot I hit would be 30 feet, 40 feet away.  I always -- I'm always trying to hit greens, so I never miss it on the low side.  I guess that's that strategy of not missing it on the low side helps.   
 Q.  What do you have to get better at to win this championship?  
RAYHAN THOMAS: Nothing, really.  I got through the first few rounds, so I should be doing something right.  Yeah, stick to what I'm doing.  Stick to my plan and go win this event.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT