OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 2, 2017
Rayhan Thomas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Talk me through that opening round.
RAYHAN THOMAS: Yeah, can't complain.  Holed a lot of good putts and had a chip-in on 8.  Just played super solid.  Can't complain.
Q. Give me an idea of the atmosphere.  This is your third European Tour appearance.
RAYHAN THOMAS: It was just awesome.  I think the spectators today were just unbelievable.  They helped me ride the momentum all day, and just the course is in fabulous shape, and with a little course knowledge, it's come together.
Been a member here the past three years, and I've played the course quite a bit and I know it like the back of my hand.  It helped with the greens a lot with the grain and just knowing where if I miss one, it's an okay spot to miss.
For sure, you have to play well.  You can know a course as well as you can, but if you don't hit the shots, you're not going to score.  I hit a lot of good shots.
Q. Fantastic group out there, Anirban and S.S.P.  How was it to be in that group?
RAYHAN THOMAS: It was awesome.  It was great to have my first round in the Desert Classic with those two guys, two country men.  I felt really comfortable and they helped me along the way.
Q. Are you in there with as much confidence as anyone else?
RAYHAN THOMAS: Yeah, for sure.  I have as much confidence as the best player in the world, that's for sure.  I don't show it, but I do.  So I'm not too surprised.
Q. Give me a quick rundown on hopes and thoughts for the rest of the week.
RAYHAN THOMAS: Yeah, just keep playing like this.  Not really thinking about what finish I'm going to get or I'm going to make the cut or anything like that.  Just playing good golf and if I just enjoy it, then I'll do well.
Q. The conditions are not really easy, but you made it seem that way?
RAYHAN THOMAS: When you play well, it seems easy, and when you play bad, it's difficult.  The wind picked up on our back nine, which was the front.  Played a bit tricky on the front but just kept my head in.  It was a good day.
Q. Talk about the chip-in on 5.
RAYHAN THOMAS: I just pulled my second shot a bit left and I probably had about 20 yards, a little left-to-right and just hit a perfect chip with my sand wedge and that went in.
Q. And you had a lovely run, as well.
RAYHAN THOMAS: That kept the momentum going for sure.
Q. Tell me something about the grouping.  You were really very comfortable out there.
RAYHAN THOMAS: The group was perfect.  I think for my first found for the Desert Classic, I think that group was perfect, just two really great guys.  I'm glad I played with them this week.
Q. How big a deal would it be to make the cut if you carry on like this?
RAYHAN THOMAS: Not really thinking about making the cut, but no, it would be awesome to make the cut in I guess my home open, you could say, but not really thinking about it.
Q. What are your thoughts for tomorrow?
RAYHAN THOMAS: Play like how I did today and I'll be fine.  Stick to my game plan.  Worked today, so it will work tomorrow, as well.
Q. Overall, what were you really pleased with today?
RAYHAN THOMAS: My iron play was very good, and my chipping was really good.  I knew if I missed a green I would still be able to make up-and-down, and my iron play was really solid today.
Q. Is that just more confidence taken from Abu Dhabi a couple of weeks ago?  Are you feeling more comfortable?
RAYHAN THOMAS: I just feel more comfortable here.  Obviously it's been my home club, and yeah, Abu Dhabi gave me a bit of confidence.  I played well and was around there, around the cut line.  But yeah, just today, just felt really good on the course.  Got off to a hot start.
Q. You mentioned the two guys you're playing with.  What sort of interaction was there between the three of you?
RAYHAN THOMAS: No, there was a bit of -- they were speaking a lot of Hindi which I don't understand, but no, it was awesome.  It was a really good group and I can't wait to play again tomorrow.
Q. Are they giving you lots of tips?
RAYHAN THOMAS: No, today was just sort of -- it was just business today, so they won't be giving me too many tips, but they were very acknowledging, acknowledging everything that I did.
Q. What was it like?  A lot of people following you.
RAYHAN THOMAS: Yeah, there was a bit of noise.  I think I pissed off Stenson on the seventh hole, or the fourth one, I made birdie.  It was awesome.  I think they helped me ride the momentum today with just how much noise they were making and just cheering me on, so I couldn't really play bad, which was awesome.
Q. How many times do you think you've played this course?  How much does that help, knowing you've got this knowledge?
RAYHAN THOMAS: I'm not really sure how many times I've played it.  I've not really got a number.  I've played it quite a few times.
Q. And that obviously gives you a huge advantage.
RAYHAN THOMAS: Yeah, but just off those tees, it's a bit different.  When I used to play, it's off the blue tees, and the rough is not up and the greens are not this fast.  It's a slightly different course off those tees and with these conditions, but yeah, helps with a little course knowledge.
Q. Do you have to pinch yourself when you look at the scoreboard?
RAYHAN THOMAS: No.
Q. That's where you want to be?
RAYHAN THOMAS: Yeah.
Q. And how does it feel to be honorary member of this golf course now, golf club now, and playing so well?
RAYHAN THOMAS: I wouldn't quite say honorary member. I'm not a legend yet.  But yeah, for sure, it's awesome.  Big thanks to golf in Dubai for helping me with my membership, which is a huge cost, and just great to be in association with this club.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT