THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 29, 2012
Carl Mason
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   I imagine you're a happy man?
CARL MASON:   Very, very.   I was chuffed with the way I played.   Tricky conditions again.   But I was right into it.   And yeah, I was really pleased with the way I played.   I think playing‑‑ I kept drawing myself back to how well I played with Tom in 2003 and I thought, well, maybe that's a good omen.   But he's a pleasure to play with, and it was great.

Q.   2003 didn't quite work out for you, but it was still a very good tournament.   You said memories did go back to that? 
CARL MASON:   I tell you, I've played that hole a million times in my mind since, I can tell you, and I can make a 5 one‑handed. 
Yeah, it's always been there in my mind.   Just occasionally it pops back.   When I look back at it, it did me so much good that week.   And what's happened since has been remarkable.

Q.   What were your thoughts at the start of play today, you're obviously a long way behind the leaders?
CARL MASON:   Well, fortunately I avoided disaster.   On a course like this, it's lurking.   The bunkers are so dangerous.   Thankfully I managed to keep out of most of them.   I thought if I play my game, a score is on.   If you hit the ball well, a score is definitely on.   I'm chuffed with 66.   That's great. 

Q.   You've not only avoided disasters.   You've had plenty of triumphs including those birdies over the back straights. 
CARL MASON:   Yeah, the last few holes, it was a pleasure.   I hung in there a couple of times, made a couple of good saving putts and made a couple of nice birdies, as well, so that was great. 
I'm really pleased with, that to play with all of these top lads, it's great.

Q.   Elaborate on playing with that top lad over there (Tom Watson).   He's shot under par once again, and he's right up there. 
CARL MASON:   Makes it look so easy.   It's just beautiful to watch and we all know that.   You can't help but watch him.   He makes it look so easy.   Makes me feel like I swing like an octopus.   He makes it look so easy. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT