SENIOR BRITISH OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 26, 2003
Carl Mason
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Carl, thanks for coming in today.  Would you like to tell us how you feel about the day itself.

CARL MASON: Well, what can I say?  I felt a bit flat for the first few holes after the experience of the first two days.  It was only maybe 150 people walking around with us and what have you, and the atmosphere felt so different.  It was a bit flat.  Of course, I made those couple of birdies at 5 and 7, and I thought, oh, here we go again, we're off and soon back into that mode again.

MODERATOR:  You picked up in the Back 9; the atmosphere got better and better.

CARL MASON: Oh, absolutely.  It was wonderful. 

MODERATOR:  You want to give us the details. 

(Score card done.)

MODERATOR:  Well, done.  Questions for Carl, folks? 


Q. Bogey free for 44 holes, is that the best you have ever played?

CARL MASON: It's going to be close to it, yes.  I'm not very good on the old stats.  It was quite good to get it out of the way and kick on from there.


Q. And you might have even made par on the hole you took a drop?

CARL MASON: Yeah, I did.  I should have made it par really.  I didn't do a very good putt.  I think I would have felt guilty if I would have made a par there.


Q. Were you edgy today, starting as leader?

CARL MASON: Yeah, as I said, when I started the round and the first few holes, it did feel a  -- or I felt a bit flat myself, and as soon as I made those two birdies, 5 and 7, that sort of gets you going again.  You think, off we go; this is it.  Certainly as you come down those last 9 holes, you feel it.


Q. Do you prefer being in front or off the pace?

CARL MASON: That's a good question.  I'm getting used to this pressure thing.  I quite like it.  It feels bloody terrible, but I quite like it.


Q. What did playing with Tom and Jack over the first two days tell you?

CARL MASON: I think probably being a gentleman on the course and enjoying the game and respect for other people.  I think that's probably something I learned.  Game-wise, we all do it our own way, whatever way it is.  But they were such gentlemen to play with.  You have such respect for them, I think that's great. 


Q. Apparently Tom and Jack were discussing how they would remodel the course during the second round?

CARL MASON: Yeah, they were.  They were  -- both days we had a little bit of a delay on the 9th.  They were discussing they thought we should play a par 3 over the water there just to the right of the lighthouse for the 9th; and then play the 10th, as a par 5.  They thought that would be quite a good idea.  Who am I to argue?  It would certainly be a spectacular hole over that water to about a 210-yard par 3, I think.


Q. Were you surprised they were doing that?

CARL MASON: Not really.  Not, really.  I think we all know Jack is a big course designer.  I'm sure all the time he sees things that could be done wherever he plays, I would think. 


Q. What do you feel you have learned so far to take into the final day?

CARL MASON: Yeah, I've learned that despite what's going on around you, you can only do or focus on what you're trying to do yourself.  If you can get your mind onto that and forget everything else that's going around you, keep telling yourself what you're doing, you can do it.  It's just if you let the moment and the things get ahead of you, take over, then you're in trouble.  That's what  -- those first two days, that's what I kept telling myself; you're playing well, don't keep looking at it, just do your thing, and thankfully I managed to do it.


Q. Your wins, where were you going into the last round?

CARL MASON: They were both in front.


Q.  In the Seniors event as well?

CARL MASON: Yes, I was two shots in front going into the last round, and the other two, I was one shot ahead in both of those.


Q. Did you play at Turnberry in 1977?

CARL MASON: I've played in two.  I'm not sure of the years.  I think it might have been the other two.  I think I failed to qualify in '77.  I played four rounds twice.  I like an Open.  I always enjoy the Open. 

MODERATOR:  Okay, everyone, any more? 

Carl, well done.

CARL MASON: Thank you very much. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT