NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 13, 2015
Anfernee Hardaway
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  (Inaudible) .  ANFERNEE HARDAWAY: It's going to be hard.  We know the statistics.  Shows that jumpshot-shooting teams -- shoot jumpers the entire season, it might work.  But in the playoffs when it's a seven-game series, the teams hone in on you.  You have to be spot-on.  I don't know how many teams can shoot 40% from three the entire playoffs and go on to win.  It's not impossible.  It's just difficult.   Q.  Where does the next step come for a team like the Magic?  It's a team that's struggling.  But as you said there are some young pieces, there's some talent there.  How do they make that jump?  ANFERNEE HARDAWAY: I think the Atlanta Hawks have the blueprint right now.  You don't have to have a lot of big names, you just have to buy into the system with each other.  I think they -- it looks like they generally care about one another.  When the locker room is really good and healthy, you can accomplish anything.   Q.  Any chance of us seeing you as an NBA coach?  ANFERNEE HARDAWAY: You never know.  Right now no.  But you never know in the near future.   Q.  (Inaudible) .  ANFERNEE HARDAWAY: You know, it's just amazing.  When you see Derrick, it reminds me of myself. I was at the height of my games when the injuries started -- especially in the legs.  Very athletic, Derrick is very athletic.  The athleticism was a big part of his game, just like mine was.  To see that, he's so young.  I started having injuries when I was 27, 28.  That was later. He's still young enough to recover.  He can recover fully and get the speed and athleticism back to where it was.   Q.  Have you talked to him at all?  ANFERNEE HARDAWAY: No, I actually haven't.  I haven't spoken to him.  Every guy is kind of different.  From afar.  He went to Memphis.  I had a chance to know him a little bit. I just pray everything comes back to his form, to where it used to be.   Q.  (Inaudible) .  ANFERNEE HARDAWAY: Absolutely.  Absolutely.  You can always have little knickknack injuries, hamstring, groin, calf.  It's overcompensating.   You really want to play.  It comes from wanting to be on the court.  Maybe playing too many minutes early on, and sometimes those things happen.  So it's always going to be like the little small -- as long as there's not any major injuries I think he'll be fine.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT