NBA FINALS: WARRIORS VS. RAPTORS
June 12, 2019
Shaun Livingston
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  This is the last time you're going to practice here.  This is the last time you're going to drive to the arena tomorrow.  All these last times, you know, period.  Does that hit you or do you think it might hit everybody tomorrow?  
SHAUN LIVINGSTON: Yeah, I think it will.  It hit me a little bit today driving here, it's like, wow, it's our last go round.  It's kind of like a memory lane, it felt like driving here today.  The memories, Deja Vu kind of setting in.  All the memories we made here just from my first year.  I think first year, first two years, thinking back about all the memories that we made here.  And then establishing myself to be here for the next three or four years after that, it's just special times.   
 Q.  What was kind of running through your mind the other night when after Game 4, I should say as you guys walked out of here, you weren't sure you would be back mere after that.  
SHAUN LIVINGSTON: Yeah, it really wasn't about, it wasn't really about that.  It was more so about the series and what we had to do to get back here.  But it was what we had to do going up to Toronto.  Obviously, the chance of Kevin coming back, just the dynamics changing in the series.  We were obviously excited to have him back, just the brothers banded back together.  I think we were more concerned about Game 5.   
 Q.  How does that play in a game, do you think?  Can you imagine what that will feel like while you're playing an elimination game?  
SHAUN LIVINGSTON: Yeah.  I really believe it's going to kind of hit us before we get here.  But once we're in the game, I think we'll be locked in to what it's going to take to win here.  I don't know if we'll be thinking about, man, it's our last game.  I think those feelings, those emotions, will more so hit us before the game.  And then God willing, we take care of business after.   
 Q.  You said it was, driving here, it was like a trip down memory lane.  Can you talk about what your time in Oakland has meant to you?  
SHAUN LIVINGSTON: Oh, it's been amazing.  It's really been home.  Like I said, establishing myself, my career here.  The longest, my longest stop is here since I've been in the league.  So just again, everything that I've been able to accomplish on and off the court from a personal standpoint, creating a life, creating a family here, again, it's been home.  It is home for me.  So it's definitely a special place along the way, along the journey here, it's a special stop for me.   
 Q.  You said that you would decide on retirement in the summer.  Do you, like what goes into that and how long will that take?  
SHAUN LIVINGSTON: More so just from a family standpoint, really deciding what the best interests of, whether it's moving or where we're moving to. And then I think even before that is do I want to play another year?  How is my body holding up, am I motivated to get in shape and play at this point in my career, somewhere else?  Where is it going to be?  It's not necessarily about the money, I don't think.  It's more so about do I want to, do I still want to play and how much do I love it and from a physical standpoint does it make sense.   
 Q.  Can you speak to the mental toughness of this team.  DeMarcus mentioned just coming back from an Achilles injury like that, the mental rehab is more challenging.  And this team, yourself included, has seen its fair share of injuries.  And in this series can you just speak to what this team is going through mentally to push it to this point and have a chance at a Game 7?  
SHAUN LIVINGSTON: Yeah.  We just, I think we draw on our experience, just being here.  We draw on that experience knowing that, just try not to get rattled, always staying poised, understanding we have some of the best shooters in the game that can get us back into any game.  And then guys that understand what it takes to win.  So we make winning basketball plays, whether it's getting extra possessions, I think understanding the moment and the time and score.  I think that's a big part of who we are.  It's a big part of our basketball IQ, understanding ourselves, our strengths, our weaknesses, and relying on those in crucial parts of the game.   
 Q.  The tension of this series and all the things that have gone on off the court during this series, with the injuries and now the last game at Oracle coming up, is this about the most weight that this team has felt during this run?  
SHAUN LIVINGSTON: I would say so.  Yes, I would say so.  Just everything.  From a physical standpoint, guys going down, injuries, guys playing a lot of minutes.  Mentally, just adding up the cumulative effect of the last few years.  And then the emotional roller coaster it is.  But I think more than anything guys have been really locked in on just winning, what it takes to win.  I think we're putting our head down.  But for sure when it's all said and done it's like I think we'll kind of peak our heads up and all be happy.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT