NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS vs WARRIORS
May 30, 2018
Shaun Livingston
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Literally there are no secrets, are there, between the two teams?
SHAUN LIVINGSTON: No secrets.  You know, they understand.  They know how we play.  We're similar teams, similar players, and they still -- everything still goes through two guys for Cleveland.
Q. [Andre] Iguodala will be out for Game 1.  What's that mean for the game plan?
SHAUN LIVINGSTON: It means a lot.  He's important to our team.  Everything he does.  He's a glue guy.  So it's been tough without him.
But understanding that it's the next man up.  I think Kevon Looney and Jordan Bell have done an incredible job.  These young guys are bringing energy and effort and also their minds, right, because it's a chess match out there.  You've got to be locked into the game plan.
Q. What do you think when you see somebody play 48 minutes, an entire game in a Game 7 of the Conference Finals?
SHAUN LIVINGSTON: It's incredible.  It's incredible.  At this stage, too, being that many miles and to be that old, that's pretty incredible.
Q. How many minutes could you play?
SHAUN LIVINGSTON: I don't think 48 (laughing).
Q. How important will be the pace of this game?
SHAUN LIVINGSTON: Yeah, the pace definitely.  That's the key to our offense, the key to our team.  We need to make sure that we come out and set the tone.
Q. Coach [Ron] Adams said some of the lapses for the Warriors are because you guys have been up here so long and the process may get a little old for you. Now that that process is almost over and you're at The Finals, is that extra excitement now about being in The Finals is you just have to lock in for this?
SHAUN LIVINGSTON: Yes, absolutely.  Absolutely.  Just being that we're, you know, we've been in this marathon and we've turned the corner and seeing the finish line, that right there is a breath of fresh air.  Right?  So it's like we have one last sprint.  Got to give it all that I have coming around the corner.
So that needs to be our mindset, regardless of what we just went through.  Obviously coming out of an emotional series with Houston.  This is a good team that we're playing.  Cleveland's a good team.  They're here for a reason.  So we need to respect them and make sure that we bring our heart out.
Q. Do you think this is something that Coach [Steve] Kerr does well because he understands that you guys -- that it is that marathon, he lets you off the hook a little bit sometimes?
SHAUN LIVINGSTON: Yeah, yes, yes, I think he understands.  I think you have to have an understanding, right?  I think that's where it comes into play as a former player.  He's played in this league.  He's been to The Finals.  He's won championships.  So he understands what it takes, and he understands the pitfalls that come with it.
Q. So we're going to see flawless Warriors basketball?
SHAUN LIVINGSTON: Yeah, right, exactly.
Q. What LeBron has done in these playoffs, have you had any time at all to see what he's been doing on the court?
SHAUN LIVINGSTON: Yeah, we watched the game.  So we definitely see that he's had his handprints all over the game.  It's pretty incredible, the physical exertion that he's put into it.  That's -- to me, it's been pretty amazing.
Q. How do you slow him down?
SHAUN LIVINGSTON: It takes a team effort.  It takes a team effort.  It's not just one guy.  We all have to be dialed in and locked in.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT