GOLDEN STATE WARRIORS MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 22, 2017
Shaun Livingston
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What does it say about this group that almost everybody is back and Bob Myers is making it happen and some unselfish players who maybe took a little bit less financially so this could happen?  
SHAUN LIVINGSTON: Yeah, just the culture of the organization from top-down.  Ownership, I think they've shown that they want to win at the highest level and continue to win.  The success that we've had the last three years, it's -- what we've been able to accomplish, looking back on it is, it doesn't happen every day.  It's my 14th year, and the brunt of my success has come towards the end of my career.   
Some players never see this type of success, meaning team success, winning championships, playing in the Finals three years.  And so you see what Kevin was able to do with his contract negotiation, allowing the team to have the ability to bring guys like myself and Andre back, David West, JaVale, Zaza.   
Special group, and again it starts from the top-down, and I think it kind of shows through the culture of what has been built and what's continuing to be laid as far as the foundation.   
 Q.  Warriors signed a couple of guys in Casspi and Young that will probably be on the floor with you a lot.  How do you think those guys are going to impact that second unit?  
SHAUN LIVINGSTON: They're going to fit in great.  The size that they bring to the position and their ability to stretch the floor, both of them.  Their best attribute is being able to put the ball in the basket and to shoot the basketball.   
And you can never really have enough shooting.  And so I think bringing those guys into the fold, both versatile guys with our small-ball lineups, being able to use those guys and assert them, mix and match different lineups and rotations.  I think it's going to be a plus for us.  And I think the coaching staff is excited to kind of mix and match those lineups.   
 Q.  Spoke to Steve a little bit earlier about retaining the majority of the same team you guys had last season.  What are the benefits that you see and anticipate in having that same corps and having all the pieces as well heading into the training camp?  
SHAUN LIVINGSTON: It's similar to the year we won it, my first year, coming back -- well, my second year, coming off of a championship and having the same team intact.   
Just the chemistry.  It only gets better.  The vibe around the team, we understand each other's games.  We're more comfortable with each other, on and off the court.   
And it just helps, especially you get into the postseason.  You rely on that experience, that cohesiveness, that chemistry in pressure situations.  And it's really invaluable.  And I think that's only going to benefit us for the years to come.   
 Q.  You got about six guys on this team that on any other team would be a team leader kind of guy, including yourself.  Who do you consider the team leader?  
SHAUN LIVINGSTON: Oh, you start with Steph, just because, I mean, what he embodies, he is kind of the identity of our culture -- superstar player, humble superstar, has allowed other guys to thrive.   
And then you probably go with Draymond, just his, just him being vocal.  And then Andre.  Those three guys they've been kind of our captains, they've kind of been our leaders.  Draymond has been the vocal leader.   
Steph's been kind of like the behind-the-scenes, kind of the hard work, doesn't really say as much as Draymond, but he's still our leader.  Everybody knows he's our best player and our guy.  So I say those three guys for sure.   
 Q.  As somebody who gets a lot of buckets kind of in the mid range, how do you feel you fitting into the league as it moves more towards pace and space like the Warriors is an epitome of that style of play?  
SHAUN LIVINGSTON: I think I'm more valuable to the Warriors than other teams, but that's been my game.  At the same time, I've had success doing it.  And I can always improve.  Also buy into that, those concepts and continue to get better, just from a personal standpoint of wanting to improve and get better.  So we'll see.   
 Q.  I know you talked last year about wanting to come back here this year and future years, however long you have left to play.  But when it was over last year, in your heart, were you thinking, because of the financial constraints of the team, this is probably it and it was fun while it lasted; and how much credit do you give KD for making the financial sacrifice?  And did you ever have any personal contact with him when he decided to do that?  And what did you tell him?  
SHAUN LIVINGSTON: I didn't talk to him.  We really didn't talk about it at all throughout any point in the last year, in the season, or even when it happened.   
But after we signed our deals, after the free agency period, I gave him a call and just let him know, because that wasn't something that he had to do.  And just I just wanted to, wanted him to hear from me personally that was just grateful to be back, be a part of the situation, understanding the ramifications of the free agency.  Without him making that sacrifice, this probably doesn't happen.  And so again it just shows you the type of person I think he is as far as a player, just kind of an unselfish superstar, humble superstar, and he just wants to win and wants to have the best chance in doing it.   
And I think with the core group that we've had the last couple of years and the success that we've been able to put forth, I think this is kind of -- this is the best chance we've had.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT