GOLDEN STATE WARRIORS MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 26, 2016
Shaun Livingston
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  The Warriors picked up your player option, something you wanted to talk about staying here, even dating back to the spring.  Outside of winning another Championship what was your motivation to come back and finish up your career here?  
SHAUN LIVINGSTON: I like it here.  Just playing with some of the guys, building continuity, just relationships, the organization is first class.  I like the Bay Area.  I love the fans.  I love playing at Oracle.  And just the support that you have.  It's just not on the court.  And it's just not pace based on what you do.  I think we have a coaching staff and organization that genuinely cares about the guys as people and not just players.  That's underrated in all sports, because it is a business, as well.   
 Q.  We talked about this before, but obviously given the moves that were made this summer there's going to be a lot of expectations on this team.  Do you think that it's going to take you guys just as long to not only get used to playing each other, but to kind of just get used to the burden of expectations that's on this group, and maybe the atmosphere you're going to receive in other plays?  
SHAUN LIVINGSTON: I think the key word this year is process.  It's going to be a process.  And it's going to start in training camp.  It's going to start in practice.  But, also, too, off of the court, building that chemistry that we had the last two years.  Some of those guys aren't here with us this year.  So it's kind of like -- I wouldn't say we're starting over, because it's going to take some time for guys to gel and for us to click as a team.   
 Q.  You've been in the NBA a lot of time, but this is something new and different in terms of putting this team together with this kind of talent and so forth.  What do you think will be the things you guys have to mostly focus on to make sure you get this thing going as smoothly as possible?  
SHAUN LIVINGSTON: Good question.  I think the main thing is going to be the lineups and figuring out rotations a little bit.  I think in preseason, training camp, is really going to be kind of a process of figuring out who plays well together.  And what units work well together.  And what guys are you going to play with the second unit from the starters and vice versa.   
So I think that's going to be kinds of -- just figuring out strengths and weaknesses, but we all know -- obviously every guy knows Kevin coming in, we know what he's capable, type of talent he is.  But then again some of the newer guys, Zaza, David West, some of the younger guys, figuring out what their roles are going to be and who plays well with who.  And like I said before, we kind of established that the last couple of years, as far as our locations and our roles.  And now I think we'll kind of reestablish that in the preseason.   
 Q.  You guys were under heavy scrutiny.  Now with Kevin here it's going to be that much higher.  How do you feel last year prepared you all and how this will be different?  
SHAUN LIVINGSTON: Yeah, I think we're used to it.  We're used to the pressure and the stakes are a lot higher.  The stakes will be a lot higher than they were this year than they were last year, because of Kevin and the team that we have in place.  But I think we just have to play basketball.  We were talking earlier, I'm the perfect example.  Like nine teams, that's a lot of situations to be in.  So I'm happy to be here.  I'm happy to be -- to have all these expectations.  You'd rather want it this way than another way.   
 Q.  Playing with Kevin.  Could you contrast him just as a person, the younger Kevin to now, who has kind of made this break away move and just how he is?  
SHAUN LIVINGSTON: Yeah, I think he's grown as a player, and just a man.  I think he's stronger willed.  He's a lot more confident.  I mean when maybe 2009 when I played with him, maybe his fourth year in the league, he was still finding himself as a player, as a leader.  And he was obviously the best player on the team, but just as a leader, being more vocal.  I think it was a transition.  That was kind of the year where he was transitioning.  And now I think it's undeniable, his talent level.  But more so his leadership.  He's willing to take on that role.  I think we'll see that this year as he gets more and more comfortable.   
 Q.  Did you work on the three?  Are we going to see you take a few threes this year, are you going to stick with that turnaround mid-range?  
SHAUN LIVINGSTON: Yeah, I think Bob's been encouraging me to shoot more.  I think the coaches are encouraging me to shoot more.  It's all confidence and being comfortable taking it.  I think we have to gauge how comfortable I am.   
 Q.  You quoted Kevin Garnett before in the past, and I was just wondering what you thought of his retirement?  
SHAUN LIVINGSTON: Yeah, probably he's about the best teammate I've ever had.  Just his commitment, his passion.  And just his self also player.  And he gave me a lot of advice when I was starting, myself, in my game and my confidence, just learning from him.  It's invaluable experience, invaluable advice coming from a player of his caliber, a surefire Hall of Famer.  The trends that he set coming from high school.  The type of record he put into his game.  He's the ultimate competitor.  Ultimate commitment to the game.  Not just on the court but off of it.  Him and Kobe Bryant, those guys, they were committed 110 percent.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT