NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 12, 2016
Shaun Livingston
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You've had guys go down throughout the season.  It seems like this Draymond situation is just one last test that you guys have to face.
SHAUN LIVINGSTON: I agree.  It's kind of the ultimate test, with him and Steph being guys that are kind of irreplaceable.  But it's something that we can rally upon.  It's something that guys can step up.  We can play with a chip on our shoulder.  The same heart that he brings every game, we can play with that as a team.  And I think we will.
Q. Has Draymond provided any emotional support for the team?
SHAUN LIVINGSTON: He'll be there.  He'll be there for us.  He's disappointed right now.  Obviously, it's fresh.  We're all disappointed.
Q. What do you make of the stuff Tyronn was saying about calls?
SHAUN LIVINGSTON: It's advocating, you know?  It is what it is.  It's probably part of his job as a coach.  He's trying to stick up for his best player, have his best player's back, as well as kind of an undertone against Draymond.  It comes with the territory.
Q. I know that you guys say next-man-up mentality.  What are the actual ways that Draymond will be missed?  What is the trickle-down effect?
SHAUN LIVINGSTON: One is heart.  His vocal intensity.  And then just on the court, rim protection.  He allows us to still have protection at the rim playing small.  Then those defensive abilities, offensively his playmaking abilities, getting the rebound and pushing it.  So just a lot of different things.
Q. Do you feel like you want to put your opinion on the court tomorrow?
SHAUN LIVINGSTON: Yes, we want to let our play do the talking at the end of the day.  That's what it comes down to.
Q. As a veteran, will you speak to Draymond more just to make sure he's okay?
SHAUN LIVINGSTON: Absolutely.  I'll definitely have a conversation with him.  I want him out there more than anything.  I believe in him.  I've had a relationship with him this whole season.  Again, he's our leader.  He's our vocal leader.  Just always kind of picking his brain and talking with him.  If he hears my perspective, I hear his.  I just want to make sure he's good mentally, because this is big for him.  It's big for anybody.  It's a close-out game and a championship game.  We want him out there, and he wants to be out there.  It hurts.
Q. Do you think as a unit you guys will be talking more to make up for Draymond?
SHAUN LIVINGSTON: We can.  I think we will.  Again, I keep using it, but I think it's going to be kind of a rally point.  It's like everybody getting behind each other and playing for him.
Q. This has been hanging over his head for five or six games now.  How fine of a line is it especially with the way he plays to have kind of walked and not put himself in harm's way?
SHAUN LIVINGSTON: It's tough.  You could easily say, He shouldn't have done this, he shouldn't have done that.  I think if you're looking at the whole, it's tough because some of those early ones kind of come back to haunt you.  In the first round, second round, you get a couple flagrants there, and those points come back to haunt you now.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT