NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: THUNDER v WARRIORS
May 23, 2016
Shaun Livingston
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Shaun, how does this lingering decision with Draymond affect you guys for preparing for the game?  
SHAUN LIVINGSTON: I mean, obviously, he's a critical part of what we do and who we are, but it's out of our hands.   
 Q.  Last year you all were the best defensive team in terms of avoiding fouls.  They have gotten to the foul line two of these three games.  Why is that happening?  
SHAUN LIVINGSTON: I think we're doing, I think, a poor job of playing defense with our minds.  We're out of position a little bit.  Again, they're a talented team.  They've got talented players, talented scorers.  So part of scoring is getting to the line.  We just have to play smart on defense.  It's a mental game as well as a physical game.   
 Q.  How much of that is whether it's Westbrook or Durant, just the pressure they put on you?  They can both get to the cup, they can both pass?  
SHAUN LIVINGSTON: Yeah, they both stay in attack mode.  But, again, we have to know that.  We have to play, I think, personnel better.  I think if we play with more effort, if we're the aggressors, I think we're likely to get the better whistle.   
 Q.  After the contact with Draymond and Adams, obviously their crowd got really into it and they went on a big run after that.  Are you disappointed at all with the way you guys reacted to their reaction?  
SHAUN LIVINGSTON: I think that's where we can get better.  That's an area of improvement for all the games for the rest of the series is understanding the situation, game and clock management.  I think coach called a couple timeouts to try to get us settled down.   
But it's just all of us, the five-unit that's on the floor and the rest of the team understanding what's going on in the game.  They have momentum, and when they have momentum, obviously they're a train.  So we have to understand, and like I said last night, take great shots as opposed to good shots or quick shots.   
 Q.  Is Oklahoma City the best team you've played in the playoffs the last two years?  
SHAUN LIVINGSTON: I mean, they're a good team.  They're a really good team.  I think we're facing a different animal as far as K.D. and Westbrook.  So, again, we have to play better personnel.  We have to play harder.   
 Q.  You guys haven't seen your small lineups get beat like that before.  What was that like to go through that?  
SHAUN LIVINGSTON: You know, they have good matchups because of their size and their length.  They put seven-footers across the board.  So it's just different matchups, but I don't think it's anything that kind of maybe they'll make some adjustments, but we still have the recipe.   
 Q.  So you feel like even if you guys didn't make significant adjustments with the two small ball lineups, a different night you guys would come out and be a different result?  
SHAUN LIVINGSTON: Agreed, agreed.  I think so.  You know, it's just sometimes it's whatever team wants it more.  You can throw the X's and O's out the window.  I think, again, we have to play with a sense of urgency.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT