NBA FINALS: WARRIORS VS. RAPTORS
June 1, 2019
Shaun Livingston
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Does it make sense, though, that 20,000 people in the building and five defenders are trying to find Steph and he's still able to somehow pop open?  
SHAUN LIVINGSTON: Yeah, because it's just movement.  You're constantly moving.  You're keeping everybody's head on a swivel.  They create so much space without having the ball. It's not very many people that can do that.  A lot of players in this league, including myself, we create our value based on having the basketball.  Those guys are able to do it off of the ball.  That's kind of what makes us go.   
 Q.  Another calling card of this team is chemistry.  How important is that chemistry now, trailing in these Finals being on the road?  
SHAUN LIVINGSTON: We have been here before.  We have seen a lot.  I don't know about all, but we have seen a lot.  So being here, we rely on our experience.  We rely on our pedigree to bring us through in these type of situations.  It's exciting.  It's fun. It's good.  This is a challenge for us.  The only thing to do is to run through it.   
 Q.  How important is it to take them out of the game early?  
SHAUN LIVINGSTON: Yeah, try to set the tone, come out aggressive.  It definitely gets loud in here.  That's going to be a key for Game 2, making sure that we dictate the tone coming out.   
 Q.  The anthem was pretty special the other night.  What was sort of the guys' take in the locker room?  The atmosphere was pretty off the charts.  
SHAUN LIVINGSTON: Yeah, definitely.  I don't think we have been booed like that coming out for warmups.  And then obviously the double anthem, the guys that were singing -- it was: We are here, it's the Finals.  It's what you expect.   
 Q.  Steve Kerr said that there are a lot of similarities from you guys in 2014, 2015 and the Raptors.  What makes them better than maybe the other teams that have tried to imitate what you guys do?  
SHAUN LIVINGSTON: Kawhi Leonard.  Anytime you have a top-five, top-10 player in the league, it automatically makes your team better because of the attention those guys are going to get, their capabilities, how they can create for the rest of the team.  But also, they have good chemistry and it looks like they enjoy playing with each other.  So I think that's kind of the similarities you may see between them and us.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT