ROLAND GARROS
May 29, 2019
Diane Parry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








E. MERTENS/D. Parry
6-1, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French, please.
Q. A few days ago you said that you didn't know Elise Mertens.  I just wanted to know what impression Elise made on you today?
DIANE PARRY: We can see that she's one of the best players.  She was very strong.  I saw the experience that she has while playing on court.
Q. What struck you most?
DIANE PARRY: She's defending very well.  She's strong at crucial moments, and this is what actually changed everything.
Q. During the second set, did you manage to show better what you wanted to do?  And what kind of feedback could you give on your tournament overall?
DIANE PARRY: I managed to do more what I wanted to do.  I had a lot of opportunities, but I didn't manage to convert my balls.
But I'm very happy of my tournament.  It's a positive result and this will help me for the future.
Q. Did you feel more pressure today than last time, and especially with the public?  What is your feeling towards the media coverage?
DIANE PARRY: Well, there were many more people and the crowd was bigger, but I like it when there's such an atmosphere, when there's such a crowd.  I can use it to draw upon them.
As for the media coverage, this is part and parcel of the job.  I am aware of it.  So I'm trying to be as natural as possible and not to worry about this.
Q. What did you learn from this French Open experience?
DIANE PARRY: I managed to find a benchmark and to see how I stand with regards to the other players and how much I have to learn for future of my career.  This gives me the will to play as much as possible against that type of players.
Q. You will go back to the juniors tour.  Is it more difficult for you to play in junior when the other players play so much differently?  And after a senior tournament, will you feel that it's such a change and you might feel some regret?
DIANE PARRY: This is possible, but I will do everything so as to make sure that it does not happen.
It's still a Grand Slam, you know, and I will make sure that I will go as far as possible to win.  Of course the game level is very different, but I will have to get accustomed to it, and I have doubles as well.
Professional players are more powerful, stronger.  Some junior players are very good as well, are good professionals, but senior players are generally stronger, more powerful.  Their game is more developed.
Q. How were you welcomed by the other French professional players?  Were you the new rookie?  Were you a little sister?  Did they give you advice?
DIANE PARRY: Well, I didn't see a lot of them, I have to say, because I'm not staying here a lot of time during the day because I need to focus.  But I know most of the French players, so everything went well.
Q. You were one of the three French players to have won during the first round.  What does it feel to be part of those three?
DIANE PARRY: I feel pride, but I didn't pay attention to this really.  I tried to stay focused on the tournament.  I didn't try to see how many other French players were still left.  I tried to be focused on my game and my tournament.
Q. From a school perspective, you are in premier, namely, you're in eleventh grade, so you're about to have an important French bachelorette examination.
DIANE PARRY: Well, yes.  I play more on the professional tour, so it's starting to be difficult for me.  But I'm trying to manage everything, to study efficiently and seriously as well.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT