U.S. OPEN
August 28, 1995
Shuzo Matsuoka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Tell us what happened? Can you tell us, please, exactly what happened, and how long
had the problem been coming on?
 
 SHUZO MATSUOKA: I think at the fourth set start, beginning in the fourth set, I felt
like a little cramp in my left leg, front of left leg and I broke his serve at the 3-2.
But next game I serve, I could not hit 100% because if I bend my leg -- every time I bend
my leg, it is coming, coming a little bit. So I start changing a little bit to -- not his
fast serve many times when I bend very low when he hits the ball low, every time I had hit
the ball low, I feel it. This is a U.S. Open; even I am winning, so I have to keep going
and I was doing -- and many time I look at coach because I was scared. I feel like I am
cramping every time I hit the ball, cramping, but I just keep going and at 5-6 in the
first point is when I hit the forehand; just cramping very bad, strong, and I fall down
and both legs only I can do is scream and I was in so much pain, I know match is finished,
but I was very sad. But at that time I just so much pain and that happened. 
 
Q. Had anything like this ever happened to you before?
 
 SHUZO MATSUOKA: Yeah, I think I am kind of person that is cramping a lot, and this year
beginning of this year, I get cramping at the Philippine, during the Davis Cup, and same
thing and I was on the court 30 minutes, I cannot even move, yeah. 
 
Q. Could you have done anything to prevent it? Did the doctor say that had you taken
more fluids --
 
 SHUZO MATSUOKA: No, I have been doing many things. I was drinking a lot. Taking the
mineral, and eating during the match. I was doing everything, but I guess I am the kind of
players, I am very aggressive and I have to use lots of energy, so that is why, you know,
I get the cramping. 
 
Q. Are you talking about the front of your leg, the quadricep or the hamstring?
 
 SHUZO MATSUOKA: The front. 
 
Q. Why did it take so long until somebody came and helped you?
 
 SHUZO MATSUOKA: No, because if somebody touch me, it is finish. Nobody can touch for
the cramp and I have to do it myself to get out and play again. Nobody can touch me. 
 
Q. Did you think you might be able to get up?
 
 SHUZO MATSUOKA: No, because I know cramping was so bad and it happened many times, like
that it is -- no, I cannot even move. 
 
Q. Was it happening in both legs at the time?
 
 SHUZO MATSUOKA: Both legs, yes. 
 
Q. You grabbed your left leg, but both of them were hurting?
 
 SHUZO MATSUOKA: Yes. 
 
Q. You had a patch on your other leg. What was that for?
 
 SHUZO MATSUOKA: I pulled a muscle when I played Kafelnikov last week and I pulled a
little bit, so I have been taking care and it is a little pain myself, but I just tried to
do my best and maybe just a little reason a little bit because I have to use more left leg
than usual. 
 
Q. Don't you feel this is a silly rule with the cramping that you can't be touched when
you are lying down?
 
 SHUZO MATSUOKA: No, I think it is the right rule. I think she shouldn't touch it.
Cramping is one thing, you have to -- you have to work out and you have to be more fit and
cramping is different than pulling a muscle, so I think it is just a rule and I think I
agree with the rule. 
 
Q. When you finally got help, was that because you asked for it, or did a certain
amount of time go by?
 
 SHUZO MATSUOKA: No, when I start cramping right away, I knew I cannot play anymore, but
only I can do is screaming because I am in lots of pain and I was very scared in myself
because if I start cramping more, maybe with the muscle with the back, one times cramping
everywhere and if I go that way, it is able to break every muscle with cramping, so -- 
 
Q. When help did come, though, was that because you asked for it?
 
 SHUZO MATSUOKA: No, I didn't ask it. I want to ask it, but I only can do the screaming
at that time. 
 
Q. Anything that you can do to prevent this from happening again?
 
 SHUZO MATSUOKA: It happened before, so I try to see a doctor, blood testing and
everything, but they couldn't see anything, so I was doing that, you know, tried to be
normal, but more training; I bring the trainer and I was training very hard. It is just
U.S. Open, Wimbledon, so I just tried to do my best, so nothing I can do. 
 
Q. You can get assistance between points on a changeover, can you not?
 
 SHUZO MATSUOKA: Not for cramping. 
 
Q. So does this tell you that you need to get more fit somehow?
 
 SHUZO MATSUOKA: I guess so, but I tried to do my best as I can. I think I was working
very hard for the summer. To get this cramping, I have to say is just bad luck and
everybody has a different body and I am the kind of person to get cramping a lot. 
 
Q. What did you think when you saw Korda was your first round opponent; what was your
reaction?
 
 SHUZO MATSUOKA: Of course, he is a very good player, but I could never hoping to get a
good draw. Just try to do my best and I know it is going to be a good match, but I am very
happy I tried to say thank you to USTA to put grandstand, our match, I was very happy. 
 
Q. What did Petr tell you afterwards? Did he tell you anything?
 
 SHUZO MATSUOKA: He said "bad luck." And I said "good luck for next
round." 
 
Q. What treatment did you receive afterwards? 
 
 SHUZO MATSUOKA: I stopped the cramping a little bit after ten minutes on the court and
they put me ice and I tried to drink a lot and I tried to eat many things and now I feel a
little better. 
 
Q. What did you eat during the match?
 
 SHUZO MATSUOKA: During the match I -- most of the time I eat bananas and I was drinking
mineral too during the match. 
 
Q. How long before after they took you off, how long did until you were able to walk on
your own?
 
 SHUZO MATSUOKA: I think ten minutes. 
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT