SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 2, 2017
Nikki Fargas
Chloe Jackson
Ayana Mitchell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
LSU - 65, Ole Miss - 49   
THE MODERATOR: I'd like to welcome LSU.   
Coach, if you would start us off with an opening statement, please.   
COACH FARGAS: Well, we're excited to see another day here at the SEC tournament.  This is the most competitive conference in the country.  Every game here, the feel in this gymnasium, has felt like an NCAA tournament.   
I can't be more proud of my group for digging deep and really finding a way to beat a very good Ole Miss team, who has gone on and had great wins and put up a great season.   
But the play of our team on the defensive end, their effort to really try to reach our defensive goal of holding our opponent to under 50, they reached it.  Again, we're excited that we're continuing to play.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions for the student-athletes.   
 Q.  Chloe, what clicked for you because early on you had the team first standing on 13 points?  Just what happened?  
CHLOE JACKSON: Just going out and playing hard.  I mean, Moncrief got in early foul trouble.  We lost a good amount of energy out of her.  I knew I had to step it up, fill that missing piece.  Everybody else stepped up, too.   
 Q.  Next up is Mississippi State.  How are you going to prepare for that?  
AYANA MITCHELL: I think we're going to enjoy this win for tonight, and tomorrow get up and do scout, go over everything, just mainly stick with our game plan.  We played them before and weren't successful.  Just going back to the drawing board, seeing where we were successful, do that for a full 40.  We're going to enjoy this, trust me.   
 Q.  Chloe, playing in your first SEC tournament, did that add any excitement to tonight?  
CHLOE JACKSON: Yeah, I mean, it was definitely exciting.  But I just knew I didn't want to go home, just had to leave it all out on the floor.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you, ladies.   
Questions for the coach.   
 Q.  Tell me your thoughts on the way Chloe played tonight.  Seemed like they kept you going.  One point where Ole Miss got within nine, she went on a 6-0 run.  
COACH FARGAS: Well, Chloe has been one of the players that we've looked to all season.  She had a little spell there where she wasn't shooting the ball extremely well.  But we never lost faith in the fact she can knock down shots for us.   
Like she said, she took it upon herself, especially when Moncrief was in foul trouble, to really step up.  That's what you have to do.   
When a teammate is struggling, somebody else needs to step in and pick up the weight.  I thought that Chloe, not only her offensive execution, but the fact we had her rebounding the basketball, she had 14 rebounds tonight, that says a lot about her on both sides of the basketball.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.   
COACH FARGAS: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT