US OPEN
September 6, 2000
Richard Krajicek
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MODERATOR: Questions for Richard. 

Q. Are you thinking there is any way you could possibly lose that tiebreak at 2-6 in
the second set?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: It can always happen. I've lost them 6-Love up and 6-1 up. But then I
had the feeling I was playing some bad points. Today, I didn't think I did anything really
wrong. Two miss-hits, winner with his forehand, hits a good backhand pass. It's his weaker
side. He picks up a great half volley, I think. Played one bad, another one at 6-5. 

Q. Did that take a lot out of you?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: I didn't think so because I didn't have the feeling I can really
blame myself. But obviously I did because I dropped my serve basically straightaway. Maybe
it helped him more actually in the beginning. Then the fourth was a disaster. I mean,
that's the set I'm really disappointed about. Because the third, you know, he's up, maybe
I'm a little bit disappointed, those things can happen. The way I played the fourth, I
mean, I should have stayed with him on serve. 3- or 4-All it should have been. If he
breaks me, if I lose, then I can accept that. That was a bad performance, the last couple
of games.

Q. 2-6 in the tiebreak, the volley off the shoe tops, how close did that come to
hitting the net?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: Actually, I thought it did. That's why I didn't run for it anymore
because I could have had it. I ran for it, then I suddenly missed it somehow, then it went
over. It was a very strange point. Yeah, it was just meant to be that he would win that
set apparently. I don't know.

Q. Finally, on the final point of the tiebreak, did he guess right where you were
going, hit a great shot?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: Yeah. I guess he did guess right. Yeah, like I said, it was just
apparently his tiebreaker somehow. Two miss-hits, great backhand, great pickup, a good
serve. Yeah, just too good. 

Q. A lot's been discussed of where Pete fits in among the all-time greats in tennis.
You played him many times. You had your way with him most of the time. What are your
thoughts on where he ranks among the all-timers, legends of tennis?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: I think he's one of the best. But I think there are different kind of
rankings you can look at. Apparently, he's the toughest in playing Grand Slams. I mean, he
won 13 out of 15 finals. I think that's an unbelievable record. And then but you've also
got guys like Lendl that played even more finals. I think that's also very good. I think
there's probably 10, 15 guys who have their own kind of records. I mean, Andre won on all
four surfaces and the Olympics. So did Laver. There are different kinds. But I think
what's so special about Pete is that he just, yeah, really raises his game on the Slams,
especially in the finals. 

Q. You've played him ten times now. You've played a lot of tiebreakers. Is this the
greatest turnaround in a tiebreaker that you've experienced with him?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: Yeah, I think so. I don't think anybody was ever up 6-2 and would
lose the tiebreaker.

Q. How do you think you'll look back on that turnaround? What changed the match for
Sampras? 

RICHARD KRAJICEK: Oh, him winning it. I mean, like I said, I don't think I can really
blame myself for doing anything really wrong in the tiebreaker. Yeah, maybe I should have
served to his backhand on 6-3. I mean, but I think I caught him very well by surprise. He
was hitting it, I think, out of his backhand grip. That's why he miss-hit it also. It
floats over my head and goes in. I don't think that's really my fault. I think he just did
a good job by himself. There's nothing I can in that tiebreaker blame on myself really.
Only thing is the third and especially the fourth, that was bad. I should have given him,
yeah, made him work for it more in those sets - especially the last one.

Q. Served well, but we've seen him serve much better than he did tonight. Against
someone with very quick feet like Lleyton Hewitt, in the same kind of conditions, maybe a
little bit cool night, what are Hewitt's chances of beating him?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: Just depends if you pick his serve. I mean, the first couple of
games, I couldn't really get his serve back because he was serving big. Then I started
getting on his serve, then actually started serving less. I think it actually works
together. If you cannot touch his serve, not reading it, he's going to be serving big.
It's going to be very difficult to break. Pete will come in a couple of times and
eventually he will break you. It's up to you. If he can read the serve, if he can really
read the serve, then the percentage is probably going to go down and he's got a chance.
But I think that's going to be the key, if he can get his serve back in a reasonable way. 

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT