US OPEN
September 2, 2000
Richard Krajicek
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MODERATOR: Questions for Richard. 

Q. How do you feel after that?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: Very, very happy. Actually, yeah, a great feeling. I mean, I think I
beat a player who was already a great player, and he's also in a very good form at the
moment. It was really a tough match. We both played I think high-quality tennis. I was a
little bit lucky at the end.

Q. How do you rank that match in terms of your career? One of the best matches you've
played?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: It's difficult to say, but I think it's one of the toughest. There
was not a lot between us. We had both our chances a little bit. It looked like Tim was
going to take it maybe even in four sets. He was playing very, very concentrated, very
tough tennis. Yeah, I think the nicest thing about this match, there were not too many
loose points. That is a great feeling. I don't know if it's the greatest match, but it's
certainly one that I'll remember for a while. 

Q. Were you surprised, since there weren't that many loose points in the end, it was
one of 17 double-faults that did him in?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: Well, I know he can double-fault. That's why when he missed his first
serve, I moved around a little bit, wanted to show him that maybe I was going to attack
his second serve. In a way, I was trying to get -- to put him under pressure, maybe that
he was going to double-fault, and he did. I knew it was possible, yeah. 

Q. Is that the sort of word in the locker room at the moment, Tim has developed a bit
of a double-fault problem?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: No, not really. I think he actually improved a lot his serve. I think
his serve used to be more inconsistent. Today he came up with some big serves at big
points. In the second set, I could have gone a set and a break up. That would have been
tough for him to come back from also. Then he came up with a few very good first serves.
But, yeah, I don't think that's the word. But it's tough to get rid of a name. I think a
couple years ago, you knew he could double-fault, still you had the feeling that maybe
when it gets very important, sometimes you can get your bad habits back at the tightest
moments.

Q. Do you see yourself kind of as a perfect example of you're not seeded here, yet
you're a Grand Slam champion, you pretty much have a great game on this surface, that
maybe seedings don't matter that much?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: Well, it helps a lot. I think when you're seeded, then you have
matters in your own hand, in a way. I was really depending on the draw. I think I was very
lucky with the draw. Not to get Henman, actually. I thought that was one of the toughest
seeds I could face. I was lucky for the first two rounds that I wasn't facing a top player
really, so I could find my game a little bit. Yeah, that's the advantage of being a seed
actually. So I think it is important. Once you played, after a couple matches, I feel
good. I know I can beat everybody. I mean, I've been Top 5 myself, won Wimbledon. So,
yeah, I'm not afraid of anybody out there on the court, especially on grass and hard
court. I feel pretty good. The seeds, I think they're good. You have to find some way to,
yeah, seed the draw. I think, in general, it's an advantage to be seeded. You don't depend
on the name out of the hat.

Q. The other day you were saying you tend to bring the best out of each other. Have you
ever seen him return as well?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: Well, there were some moments he returned unbelievable. One game I
thought, in particular, it was at 4-All I think in the third set, he just came up with two
unbelievable chip returns on the ad side, backhand pass, another good return. I think I
was 30-Love up. I lost four points in a row just from good tennis from him. Yeah, then of
course I have a big serve, it's tough to return. But he had very good returning streaks
actually. I had to be very sharp on my serve and on my volley. Yeah, I was impressed,
especially with the one-handed backhand. I thought if I could kick it up there, I would
get more easy shots. I was playing a confident player. I saw that from the get-go.

Q. Have you played as well since winning Wimbledon? Have you ever recaptured that
streak of form you had at Wimbledon that year since?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: Well, I don't know. It's tough to say. I mean, I think I played --
when I won Key Biscayne, I was playing very high level tennis, but I was playing a lot of
baseliners there. I think Sampras was the only serve-volleyer I played. It's difficult to
say. Wimbledon I was returning very big off both sides, serve-volleying good. The
serve-volley game I've played good since Wimbledon, since I won it, for sure, the same
kind of level, I guess. Now the returning game, on grass definitely I haven't played so
good, but on other surfaces, it's different. Your opponent stays back. It's difficult to
compare the two. Obviously, I haven't had a long streak of matches in Grand Slams since. I
mean, the best I've done is quarterfinals.

Q. When is the last time you felt as fit as you do at the moment? Knees are absolutely
no problem, you say. When you won Stuttgart, maybe? 

RICHARD KRAJICEK: No, I think actually before US Open last year. US Open last year, in
the third round, I made a wrong move, or second round, then I had some problems. I had
surgery at the beginning of the year. Slowly I've been coming back. I mean, I felt
physically probably before good. But now in combination with the results. I mean, it's not
difficult to feel good if you play one match a week. Nothing can happen to you. So now I
played a couple of matches in a row, a couple of tough ones, best-of-five. I feel still
good physically. That's nice. 

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT