US OPEN
August 31, 2000
Richard Krajicek
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 MODERATOR: Questions for Richard.  
 
Q. We were watching, seeing you play very, very well. We were concerned because you had
the doctor out. What was the matter with you during that period?
 
 RICHARD KRAJICEK: I had a little bit of an upset stomach. Woke up feeling not that
great. At the beginning of the match, got warm pretty quick. When you're not feeling a
hundred percent, the heat affects you a little bit more, in combination with the humidity.
In the beginning, I felt it would go away by itself. Sometimes you just have to sweat it
out a little bit, which you do enough on these kind of days, these kind of conditions.
Beginning of the second, I thought, "I'm just going to ask for the trainer."
Most of the time they have a simple anti-acid pill, whatever. That helps quicker. I just
got enough of it. You know, I felt like stomach more and more. I didn't want it to break
my concentration. As soon as you start to really think about something or feel it all the
time, you lose the focus of the match a little bit. He came on, yeah. I waited at the
changeover. It took a little bit longer before he came. Then I had two and a half, three
minutes time-out, so I think I was sitting for about six minutes. I think the clouds came
a little bit, I got the medications. All those things really helped me. As soon as I got
up, I felt fresh and much better, much sharper. I think it's only temporary, like for a
couple hours, that I feel a little bit like that. It's nothing to worry about. What the
trainer thought, because the stomach is upset, I drink water, but the body doesn't get it.
Basically you are dehydrating pretty rapidly, especially in these conditions. That's why
you have to get the stomach working as quick as possible. 
 
Q. How do you feel you're playing generally now? Of the many matches you played with
Tim, which one or two stand out the most memorable?
 
 RICHARD KRAJICEK: With Tim?  
 
Q. Yes. 
 
 RICHARD KRAJICEK: I think we only played three matches.  
 
Q. Two of them were in England is what probably makes us think there are even more. 
 
 RICHARD KRAJICEK: One was in the States on neutral ground. I beat him, of course
(laughter). I think all three were pretty memorable. Tim beat me in my title defense at
Wimbledon. It was a very close match, tiebreaker in the third set. I had chances to go
two-sets-to-one up. I didn't make that. He beat me the next day in the fourth set. In
London, I was serving for the match against him, one set up. I lost it like 7-5 in the
third, I think, or even 7-6 in the third. Then in the States, he had like eight or nine
match points, and I beat him 7-6 in the third. We've had really, really tight matches,
especially the one in the States I have good memories about. I remember there was a night
match in New Haven. It was -- I remember the crowd really enjoyed it. In general, we have
very nice, competitive matches, good battles, even though we have similar styles,
sometimes contrasting styles, sometimes nicer to watch. We both like to come in, we're
both very aggressive. Yeah, normally I always have a good memory of Tim. Somehow he brings
out the best of me. I think I bring a lot of good out of him also.  
 
Q. He obviously feels he's playing well at the moment, he's had a good summer. How do
you feel you're playing at the moment?
 
 RICHARD KRAJICEK: I think I'm playing pretty good. Obviously result-wise I'm not that
happy with what happened. My ranking dropped a little bit. I was struggling a little bit
with draws. First round in Toronto, I played against Magnus Norman. First round in
Cincinnati, I played against Yevgeny Kafelnikov. It's tough. Even though I felt I was
playing good, in Toronto I won two rounds, and Cincinnati I felt I played a pretty good
match. You play Kafelnikov, sometimes even if you play good, you can lose to him.
Tennis-wise, it always felt good, but the results weren't that great. Last week I won two
matches. This week already I won two matches. It's getting better. Yeah, in a way I feel
good. It's nice to have maybe a final or a semifinal in the recent past. Yeah, I had one
in Long Island, but it was with a walk-over in the quarterfinals against Moya. It's not
really a great achievement. I feel okay. I think Tim has achieved more in the summer, of
course, a better summer. But I think it's going to be a good match. Today I already was
far happier with a few things that I was maybe doing less good in the first match. 
 
Q. Given the talent that Tim has, do you think that he should have won more titles by
now than he has done?
 
 RICHARD KRAJICEK: Yes and no. I mean, he's got the ability. For me, when I see in
Cincinnati this year, I think that that's maybe a very important step. I think he beat
Sampras there. I think he made his best result in a Masters Series. I think he made a step
there. Sometimes guys can make a step in a very short period. For him maybe it took
longer. He's been very consistent over the years, but... He's been making good results,
but not really winning tournaments. I think what he did in Cincinnati maybe is going to,
in the next six months, going to prove that he really made it to the next step. I think
he's going to do better than maybe he did even before, which I think he did very
consistent. It sometimes takes longer with guys. But I think you just have to wait and
see. 
 
Q. He thinks that this, as opposed to grass, is his best surface. Do you think that's
the case as well?
 
 RICHARD KRAJICEK: I think he's pretty good on grass. It is a little bit -- hard court
is a little bit nicer because you can really, yeah, play a different kind of style of
tennis. Maybe if you're not feeling that good on your serve-and-volley, you can stay back
a little bit more, try to get the rhythm like that. On grass, even if your
serve-and-volley game doesn't feel so good, you're still forced to play serve-and-volley.
There are less options. But if everything goes good on grass, grass is a great surface to
play on. Hard court, yeah, gives you more chances. Obviously he feels good with his
all-around game, that maybe he feels less pressure to always come in. I mean, he's done
well in the past at Wimbledon. Maybe this year was a little bit disappointing. I'd have to
say in general, I think so far he's done better on grass. Maybe it's because in England
the people support him. He's a good hard court player, but for the moment he's done better
on grass. 
 
Q. Do you find the courts here this year more a medium pace than maybe last year, or
faster? Do you find them a good pace, these courts, this time?
 
 RICHARD KRAJICEK: The courts I think are okay, just the balls are always very quick.
It's by far the quickest balls of the year. I'd say Australia this year I remember I
thought was very quick also. Especially coming off the grass where they make the ball so
slow and so heavy, it's always a big change. It's funny, at least that's what I see, the
first couple of days in practice. In Toronto, the guys are really missing the ball by a
long way sometime because they have to get the touch of the ball, they have to change the
stringing to go a little bit up in tension. I think it's more the balls that make the play
quicker than the courts. The courts I think are okay, but the balls, if they wanted some
more rallies, maybe they should have made the balls a little bit slower. I think it's
still a relatively fair court. I can play serve-and-volley. If I don't play good
serve-and-volley, I still get punished by a baseliner.  
 
Q. How are your knees now?
 
 RICHARD KRAJICEK: Good, thanks. 
 
Q. No problems at all?
 
 RICHARD KRAJICEK: No. At the moment I'm very happy. Played a couple weeks on hard court
now. I've been very good.  
 
End of FastScripts….             
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT