WIMBLEDON
June 28, 2000
Richard Krajicek
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MODERATOR: Good afternoon, everybody. Richard Krajicek. 

Q. You must be very disappointed at going out. 

RICHARD KRAJICEK: Yeah, that's right. 

Q. Talk us through the match. 

RICHARD KRAJICEK: Yeah, I started off perfect - well, perfect. Started away with a
break, so that's nice. But already also from the first game, I was struggling with my
serve. 40-15 up, hit two double-faults. That basically, yeah, was an important point in
the whole match. I was really struggling with my rhythm on the first and second serve,
then later in the match, I started to take a little pace off the serve, try to place it a
bit more and try to get the first serve percentage up. He broke me back in the first set.
A little bit lucky I think at 6-5 to break him, to win the first set. Yeah, it all looked
okay. But my service problems continued. Then on top of that, he was punishing my second
serve very well. I started to take pace off the first serve to get the first serve
percentage up, so he wasn't going to step up so much. I have to give him a lot of credit.
I wish I was just serving a little bit more so I felt a little bit more confident, holding
my games easier. Every time I had the feeling, and I think he had the feeling also, that
he had a chance to break me. Normally it doesn't happen, especially on grass. My opponents
shouldn't have that feeling. But I think that was the key point. I wasn't serving great,
but he was really stepping in and hitting good forehand and backhand returns, especially
backhand, yeah, it can be on and off. The forehand is always big for me, but his backhand,
I thought was very sharp.

Q. How did you see the crucial moment at the end of the third set, the overrule?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: I thought it was an important one. Would have gone back to deuce,
maybe gone back to the tiebreaker. I got that overrule. He was upset. Sacrificed the
racquet.

Q. Did you think it was out?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: Tough to say. I think it might have touched the line actually. It was
difficult. The serve was so big. I think Wayne's point was more that he thought it was in,
but he also thought it was the first overrule of the match. To do it on such a crucial
point can be a little bit annoying. Yeah, to win that point and the set, I thought it was
good for me, also that he would be a little bit upset, maybe I could take advantage of it.
I was really looking for an early break myself. I thought maybe he's still upset and I can
break him maybe straightaway in the second game to go 2-Love. I didn't have a chance. I
think he held his game. I couldn't take advantage of that little moment that he maybe lost
his concentration. 

Q. As a former champion here who knows what it takes to win seven matches at Wimbledon,
as the last player here to beat Pete Sampras, seems like ages ago, do you ever sometimes
marvel at what Pete has done here in the last seven years?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: Yeah, I think it's very impressive, of course. He's just -- I think
it's very good to win so many matches. Against me four years ago, I was playing very good,
and maybe he wasn't playing that great, then you can lose. But that hasn't happened in any
of the other years. I think you have to be a very high level. You can always have a lesser
day and play an opponent who is on top of his game that day. Only once in seven years he
managed to lose a match, so I think that's, yeah, got all my respect, that's for sure. 

Q. What is your opinion on this overruling? Did you agree with Wayne's comments that he
felt the timing of the first overrule was slightly odd?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: Yeah, but it always is. It's difficult to say. I think for starters,
of course, the umpires and the linesmen are also human, so they can make mistakes. But
somehow I think everybody feels that it's a tense moment. Maybe the umpire is nervous, has
a feeling that the linesmen is nervous; maybe he or she is choking also, wants to correct
their mistake. I don't know. But it always seems to happen on set points, always crucial
points. The umpires also -- I think it's normal. If you have no feelings, then I don't
think you can be a good umpire. I think you have to feel the moment of the match. But
sometimes, yeah, it is amazing what kind of timing they can have for overruling.

Q. Wayne said maybe they should start doing it earlier in sets, and maybe raise their
game or raise their concentration for the crucial points. That's when they seem to do it. 

RICHARD KRAJICEK: Like I said, maybe the linesmen or women are not making those
mistakes in the beginning of the set, and the umpire has the feeling they are making them
when it gets more important. I don't know. I mean, you always have the -- if it's against
you, you always think it's bad timing. It was pretty good timing, I thought. 

Q. But it didn't help much for you?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: No. For the first set it did, but not for the match. 

Q. Did you have the feeling that afterwards you could win the match?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: I thought maybe if I could win the fourth set, Love-30, relatively
easy forehand to go Love-40, triple set point, we go into a fifth. But second or third,
after I got broken, then I wasn't really in it anymore for those two sets. But in the
fourth, I was back in it. You go to a fifth, you never know what happens.

Q. These balls are said to be about six percent larger. Can you tell the difference?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: Well, I know I'm struggling with my serve, basically not from the
moment I got on grass, but for sure last week and this week. But I don't know if it's the
balls. Maybe finally I can blame somebody else than myself. That's good. It somehow maybe
goes a little bit , flies a little bit slower. That's why sometimes I hit -- I've hit
definitely more double-faults the last couple of weeks than I've had on all the other
surfaces. I think you just go for a little bit more. You don't get as much help as you
normally would get. I mean, the balls are already heavy. Now that they're bigger, I think
they're even slower. Maybe that's an explanation why sometimes you have the feeling the
ball is not coming off your racquet. I had the feeling last year they weren't that quick
either. It's tough to say. I mean, it's 12 months ago. I don't really remember how the
ball felt off my racquet. I have to say this year, they're pretty heavy. Of course, the
grass seems a little bit longer also actually. I don't know. It's no joke. The court is a
little -- plays a little bit slower. I think it makes the grass a little bit longer. 

Q. Sorry to go back to the seedings controversy, but it does seem to be one of the
major comments everybody is talking about. Grass is longer, baseliners have more of a
chance. Do you feel you were seeded a bit high this year compared to your overall yearly
results, maybe there is an element of truth in what's been said, rankings and seedings
should be done according to yearly rankings?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: Yeah, I think every year there's basically the same discussion. Yeah,
you have a yearly ranking for the seedings. At Wimbledon, it has been always different.
One of the reasons is that grass is a different surface. I think the best thing would be
to maybe make separate rankings for the seedings only, not that you publish those, but you
just look at, I don't know, last two or three years, somebody's grass court results,
somebody's clay court results, then I think nobody can complain. Or you just say,
"Okay, we do it according to the world ranking." I don't know. I don't know what
is smart. I think that sometimes the clay court players, when they come here, I don't
think Corretja or Costa played any event warming up for grass. I don't think they were
really ready to play Wimbledon anyway. But for me personally, I don't know. I mean, I
think the only one that really had to be seeded was Rafter. I think he deserved it. He was
No. 1 last year. He was out for six months because of his shoulder. He was here in
semifinals, won Rosmalen last year and this year again, but it was after the seedings. For
myself, I don't know. I think if I play well, I can be contender for the title. In that
sense, you can seed me. I haven't played that great last two years now at Wimbledon. My
ranking is low. Yeah, you can say something for both sides. Maybe I shouldn't be seeded,
but when you do seed me, I think, yeah, it was also good, I mean, for the other seeded
players. I think if Sampras or Henman or any of the other seeds would meet me first round,
I don't think they would be very happy. 

Q. How will you go on this season?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: Davis Cup, then the hard court season, Toronto, Cincinnati, US Open. 

Q. Are you clearly hoping for better fortunes from your football team now?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: If that goes wrong, too, tomorrow, it will be a very disappointing
week. We'll see. Italians are tough. I hope we can finally break through the defensive
football that they're playing.

Q. Going back to watch?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: I'll be watching in Holland. I don't know if I'll be in the stadium.
I'll be watching it for sure on TV. Maybe I'll go watch live. 

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT