TMS MONTE CARLO
April 19, 2000
Richard Krajicek
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Obviously things are going very well. How long have you actually been practicing and
working?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: Well, I started my first set hit weeks ago, but since about three
weeks I am playing -- I am pretty intense. The first week is really just to feel the ball
and just move a little bit, feel the moving on the court and, so basically three weeks
pretty intense.

Q. Winning over someone like Enqvist; is that a bonus for you?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: Yeah, it is a bonus and a little bit of a surprise in a way. I was
surprised that I kept it up the whole match actually and I knew I could play well, of
course. Yesterday was more of an example that I had some very good games and a few less
games; then very good ones again. Today I had the feeling I kept the level of play at the
certain level and I didn't drop too much. So that is very important and it is very
encouraging to have such a big win so quickly already after coming back.

Q. Was it the same knee that caused you all the problems at the end of 1998?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: Yeah, the knee was operated in 1998, yeah.

Q. What was the problem?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: Well, I had another tear or lesion in the meniscus, in the same one,
and they cut another part away, so not much left to cut.

Q. Nothing left there?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: Not too much, no. Just a third of the original amount, so it is not
so much anymore.

Q. Can that restrict you at all? I am not a medical person, so I don't really
understand.

RICHARD KRAJICEK: No, it doesn't restrict you. The only thing that in the old days they
used to take out your meniscus completely. They found out that after 20 years you get
arterio -- I don't know what you call it -- just the bones, they fall apart almost because
the meniscus is like, how you call it, a sponge between your -- in your leg, between upper
and lower leg, and so in the long-term if it would be completely gone, then there could be
a problem. But it doesn't have any use when you are playing -- I could play without, but
just in 20 years I would have trouble getting out of bed, I think, if it would be
completely away. But, no, as long as there is a little bit it protects me and it is good.

Q. Have you reached the stage yet where you are actually able to move again
instinctively or are you still a little weary? Obviously we couldn't see the match today
because we were out watching Henman.

RICHARD KRAJICEK: I still need a little bit of time, I realized -- at the back of the
court I don't think you see too much that I am doing wrong things, but at the net
sometimes I make the wrong decisions, sometimes I move in too far; then I wait too much
for the ball to drop, so -- and at the net as you have less time, so you have to be more
instinctive, so, yeah there is still a little bit of work to be done or matches to be
played to get the rhythm on that. But on the baseline you have time, so then you can
disguise it a little bit. But I noticed sometimes coming in that on the volley I make the
wrong decision and a few volleys I let them drop too much instead of taking them at a
higher point, so it would be easier to volley. 

Q. Just looking forward to Wimbledon, I assume your grass court preparation doesn't
take you anywhere near Britain again?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: No. (Laughs) I am aiming for two weeks in London and that is enough
England for me - enough rain for me for the rest of the year.

Q. Never rains in Holland?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: Never rains. It blows over.

Q. When it does you blame us for sending it to you?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: Exactly.

Q. Is grass a big goal of yours now? Now that you have missed out on Key Biscayne,
those sort of (inaudible) --

RICHARD KRAJICEK: Wimbledon and the US Open are the best -- two best tournaments I am
looking at at the moment. In a way, I want to look at the French but I don't know how
quick I was going to get in form and also physical shape, so we have to see that about
that, but definitely, yeah, the two very big Slams, two Slams left where on the surfaces
that I like, on grass and on hard court, so I am looking at those two for sure. But at the
moment I just want to get my form and be healthy and play well and then I know that the
results will come. If I play decent preparation on the grass then maybe I can do something
good at Wimbledon again.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT