EUROCARD OPEN
October 30, 1999
Richard Krajicek
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
ATP:  Questions for Richard, please.  
 

Q. I imagine you must be pretty pleased with the generally solid way you played today?
 
RICHARD KRAJICEK:  Yeah, it was a solid performance.  I don't think in a way I played unbelievable.  Yeah, I played correct.  I made quite some returns.  Yeah, it was a very good  -- yeah, a performance I'm very happy with. 
 

Q. Was this a step up from particularly two matches ago?  I didn't see yesterday's.
 
RICHARD KRAJICEK:  Yeah, well, I think yesterday's match was already better, even though the opponent was less of an indoor player.  I was moving better already, and I got the little virus out of my system, which was basically bothering me the first two matches.  My legs felt a bit heavy, and I wasn't moving too good.  Somehow it affected my brain also, because I wasn't thinking out there.  The last two matches, yesterday and today, I've been moving better.  I'm thinking much better, especially yesterday.  Today you don't have to think that much; you just have to come in and play your percentages.  Yeah, I did that very well today.  I think it's better to play maybe not so good the first couple matches and then improve as the tournament goes along. 
 

Q. What was wrong with the net in the second set?
 
RICHARD KRAJICEK:  It was so high I was thinking for like one or two points.  Then I thought, normally if I stand on the baseline, I don't see the baseline on the other side.  It's basically behind the net.  But now I saw the baseline like this far under the net cord, under the tape (indicating).  I felt it was not right.  The umpire wanted to change it after the game was over, but I was hitting a few serves on the tape.  I felt it was pretty important for me to get the net to the right level.  Somehow, the Velcro let go and, yeah, the net was suddenly like four inches higher, I think.  
 

Q. How long had it been like that, do you think?  A couple of points? 
 
RICHARD KRAJICEK:  Maybe it happened in the beginning of that game.  Maybe that's why I didn't notice it somehow.  I don't think it happened before.  I think it happened either during the changeover or maybe during that game.  
 

Q. The sort of thing that can happen when a serve such as yours or Greg's hits it?
 
RICHARD KRAJICEK:  Yeah, it could happen.  I think they used the safety pin now to make sure it stays in place.  
 

Q. What is it about this place that makes you play so well?
 
RICHARD KRAJICEK:  I don't know.  I mean, it's a pretty normal place in a way.  The food is the same; everything looks pretty normal.  Yeah, especially in the beginning, I don't know why I played well.  I think now it's because I played well in the past, so I go with the mental attitude.  On top of that, it's an indoor event.  Already a more positive thing going into an indoor event.  I play good tennis here.  Even if I'm not playing maybe great tennis sometimes, I win my matches here.  Yeah, I'm very happy.  I think everybody's got their events.  I was talking to Tim about it yesterday.  He said it was like 10-0 in Tashkent, won all his matches there.  In Basel, he's winning semis and finals.  LA, I won twice, finals and semis.  Some events somehow have a magic thing for you that you just win a lot of matches there.  Pete has Wimbledon, so everybody has their tournaments (laughter).  
 

Q. We don't know yet who you're going to play.  The first set was surprising to us. (Referring to a 6 -3, one break up in the second set lead by Thomas Enqvist over Andre Agassi.)
 
RICHARD KRAJICEK:  And a break also already.  In a way, it's a surprise, of course, because Andre is playing so well, so confident.  But Thomas has his number a little bit.  I think he's head-to-head in front.  Also the game maybe doesn't suit Andre because he cannot really hit him off the court.  He can keep up with the pace of Andre.  I thought he had a good chance.  But to be honest, before the match I thought that still Andre is so confident and hitting the ball so well, he was still going to win it.  But I knew it was going to be a difficult match for him today.  He proved that he came back from worse, how you say, scores than so far he's today, a set and a break.  Match is not over.  It will be interesting.  
 

Q. What is your feeling about playing either of them?
 
RICHARD KRAJICEK:  Well, Andre is always interesting to play.  We've had a few very close matches.  I think he beat me three times against two for me.  He's, of course, No.  1 in the world.  That's always something special to play against the No.  1 in the world.  I think the crowd will be very much into it, maybe more into it than if I would play Thomas, of course.  Yeah, both, it's going to be a pretty similar match.  I'm going to be attacking, coming in.  The other guy, Andre or Thomas, are just going to hit passing shots and pass me off the return.  I think tennis-wise, it's going to be a nice match because it's a contrast of styles.  I'm looking forward to either match-up.  I have to say, against Andre it's going to be, of course, a little bit more tension out there because it is Andre and he's No.  1 in the world.  
 

Q. Greg was in here a few minutes ago saying that basically the race for Hannover is irrelevant to him, he's not even thinking about it.  We all know this time last year you qualified, then were unable to play there because of surgery.  It obviously means something to you to get there this year, doesn't it?
 
RICHARD KRAJICEK:  Yeah, for sure.  I was very disappointed last year.  It was also a very tough choice I had to make.  But I knew if I was going to wait the one extra week with surgery, then I would have missed the Australian Open.  It was very difficult, what I found more important, the Australian Open or Hannover.  Yeah, I decided for Australian Open.  Also I was afraid if I make one wrong move in the first match, then maybe I can worsen the injury, so I would lose Australian Open and I would lose The Masters.  I just thought that I would play it safe and just play the Australian Open for sure.  But it is a big event.  I mean, after the Grand Slams, for me that's the biggest event.  I had not such a great Grand Slam year.  Quarterfinals was okay; a little chance for semis maybe.  That would have made my year a lot better.  Now I have the feeling the only way I can have a good feeling about my year is to qualify for Masters.  For me, this is, yeah, my last chance to really have the feeling that I've had a good year.  So for me, yeah, it's very important.  I think of it a lot.  I mean, it's not that I'm calculating every time and every time I'm on the court I'm like, "Oh, I have to win this match, it's going to give me, I don't know, 100 or 50 points."  Definitely after every match I've played, it's been in the back of my mind, for sure.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT