GREAT AMERICAN INSURANCE ATP CHAMPIONSHIP
August 12, 1999
Richard Krajicek
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







ATP: Questions for Richard.

Q. Tomorrow will it be seven wins against Sampras?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: That's the plan, yeah (laughter).

Q. How did you think you were playing tonight?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: I think I played pretty good, especially in the beginning. Oh, Justin
played very good. Till 3-All, it was a very close match. Then I came up with a couple good
returns, he missed one or two volleys maybe. I got the break and that changed the match a
little bit. Yeah, I think we had some good points. I was very happy with the way I played
today. It's a good test for tomorrow.

Q. Why do you think you're playing so much better here this week than maybe you have in
the past?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: At this tournament? 

Q. Yes. 

RICHARD KRAJICEK: It's not been too hot yet, I think (laughter). I don't know. I know
the first year I lost because of the heat. That was '91 or '92. It was really hot. Yeah,
somehow I've struggled here. A couple times with my leg, that was also a problem. I
haven't had too much good fortune. I think this is the first time I'm in quarters. It's a
good feeling. I hope I can go maybe a little further even.

Q. You're about the only guy that we hear Pete consistently sound kind of nervous
about. How does that make you feel? What is it about your game that you think is difficult
for him?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: It's good to know that -- I think I also know on the court that he
has a bit of respect for me. So we go on the court I think as equals, or maybe I have a
little edge, I don't know. But at least equal. I think a lot of times he goes on the court
already with a little bit of edge over his opponent. He doesn't have that with me. That's
a good feeling. I think the reason why I've beaten him the last couple of times is a
little bit of luck sometimes. Last year Stuttgart, 7-6 in the third set, it could go
either way. In general, yeah, his game suits me, and my game doesn't suit him. I attack
him a lot. He doesn't like it. He likes to be the aggressor. Against him, I'm trying to
come in as much as possible, make passing shots, not give him time to set up points the
way he wants to set it up. I don't let him play his game, and I think the last couple
times it worked out good. Every match is a new match. I have to start at zero-zero
tomorrow. I hope I'm going to be doing the same thing. I'm going to attack him as much as
possible and I hope I can win again. 

Q. This field is now down to the top seven seeds and Michael Chang. Could you talk
about the quality of the final eight?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: It's great. I mean, I remember last year in Toronto, we also I think
all eight seeds were in the quarterfinals. It's unbelievable. It's not a good draw left. I
think it's exciting for the players, you know. It's always great to play against somebody
who is good, maybe you're going to have a close battle. I think that's exciting for the
players. I think also for the spectators. I think everybody is a winner with these kind of
draws. I think it's going to be a great day tomorrow with four good matchups. Still can
happen that somebody wins easy, but in general I think it's going to be good four good
matches. 

Q. Is your knee a hundred percent now?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: Yeah. Surgery last year, the knee reacted well to it.

Q. As a player, do you get an insiders look as to how it is when you have all these top
players still left in the tournament? Is there a little more electricity in the locker
room, more nervousness?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: No, not yet, not really. You're not at the same time in the locker
room. Today I arrived at 5 o'clock. There was nobody really left anywhere. Everybody plays
at different times, so you don't really see each other. I don't have the feeling there's
really a special feeling. Only with your opponent before the match, you just know you're
going to play, so there's always a little bit of tension - not really tension, but some
kind of different vibes between you, I guess. But in general, all the other players, if
they are there, which most of them are not, you have a good talk, laugh sometimes. No,
only with your opponent is there the special feeling. 

Q. Did you do anything different to prepare for the possibility of being here this
week? Did you do any different training?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: No. The only thing I can do is just work out as much as I can
physically at home and just hope the weather is okay. I mean, in Holland and also here. It
was pretty hot in Holland. It was like 80 a couple days in a row, so we had a real heat
wave going (laughter), but that was good. I really got used to it. It made life a little
bit easier. If it's really bad here, you have 100, big humidity, you cannot really prepare
for that. You just tough it out. Just try to get in as good of shape as possible and hope
the weather is good where you're training, then also, like I said, you have to go through
maybe a few tough moments in the matches, but just always believe in yourself that you can
win.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT