EUROCARD OPEN
November 1, 1998
Richard Krajicek
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. What kept you... in the match?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: Yeah, it was very quick.

Q. Have you ever served better, ever?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: No, in a way I don't think so. I think I for sure served more aces,
but the way I mixed it up today and how I kept my cool, because sometimes, if it gets
important I go too often for the big one, but now, I just kept on mixing it up and that
was, I think, the most important thing about my serve today.

Q. Obviously it is an incredible string of wins, Agassi, Ivanisevic, Sampras,
Kafelnikov. Do you feel you ever sustained your play at that sort of level before?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: I don't know -- it is difficult to say. When I won Wimbledon, I had a
couple of good wins in a row also. But this is really four days in a row and it is also
pretty impressive with the best of five, yeah, beating actually Yevgeny, who I respect a
lot his game. I mean, he has got a very good game against me. He has got a great return of
serve and somehow I have been able to naturalize it today. So I was very happy with
myself.

Q. Also Richard, you were taking volleys from below the height of the net and changing
direction of the net and covering it very well. For a man who is about to have a knee
operation, it was terrific.

RICHARD KRAJICEK: Yeah, it is difficult to understand maybe for people that the knee is
not good, but when it is good -- when I would say when it is not blocked, then I can do
everything. Just the chance of - because of the little tear I have, it can get stuck with
a wrong move or a sudden move, but as long as that doesn't happen, I can do everything. I
was moving very well today. I think that frustrated Yevgeny also a lot that he didn't know
where to hit the ball. I was covering all the passes and everything.

Q. Do you face a dilemma in a way with the knee, the timing of the operation, if you go
to Hannover or if you don't go to Hannover have the operation be fit for the Australian
Open, is that a problem; would you have to make a decision?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: Yes, it is. I have been talking -- I know already for a couple of
weeks that if I am going to make Hannover then and I will postpone the operation, then I
cannot play Australia. I also know for a couple of weeks that is a choice I have to make.
It is not automatic if I qualify for Hannover that I am going to go to Australia because
-- that I am going to go to Hannover. I really have to see what I find more important. Do
I find a Grand Slam more important or do I find it or more important that a tournament
where you have to qualify for the whole year and it is -- it is a special event. I have
played it two times - if that is more important for me. And I also, yeah, this is the
first time I am really going to talk about it with my coach because we decided I was not
even in range for making it, I was No. 10, but I was more than 400 points from Tim who was
No. 8, so there was no real discussion in way. Now, I am No. 8 and I have a chance of
making it, we have we are going to drive now to Paris, so we have about 600 kilometers to
talk about it.

Q. When you got injured at the U.S. Open, how long did it take for you to take the
decision to postpone the operation at the end of the season?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: Not too long, I think. Because I knew that if I would have it then my
season was finished because the time I would be fit to play, it may be -- Stockholm would
have been my first tournament, last tournament of the year, so, yeah, I knew that when the
knee locks a little bit, then it can be put back again. I just decided to work as hard as
possible, did a lot of weight, a lot of muscle stimulation with machines, and a lot of
cycling, especially. And, just to make the leg as strong as possible to cut down the
chance that it can happen again. I felt I have to give myself one more try because I
always think, at least for last couple of years, I really think I am one of the better
indoor players in the world, so it was just a shame to let that indoor season go by. Yeah,
I just want to give it one more shot. Also made a decision if it would happen again, US
Open then I wouldn't get like treated again and to play for next tournament, I would stop
and would have an operation straight-a-way.

Q. What has changed your mind about the importance of the Australian Open? I can
remember (Inaudible.) You said it is not really in --

RICHARD KRAJICEK: When did you talk to me?

Q. Last December.

RICHARD KRAJICEK: There, yeah. Even at the end of last year I thought I would never go
back to Australia and actually it is one of my favorite countries, but I would never go
back to Australia to play the event. But I still believe in that it was good for me to
take the break, but if I could have -- yeah, done it different, then I would have maybe
taken the break in February. I don't think I should take breaks during Grand Slams and at
that moment, it felt right and I was very fit physically but also mentally, which I think
is very important for me. I was fit for this whole year. I have been motivated every event
I play and sometimes I have had some burnout moments during the year, especially end of
the year. So I think it is important for me to play that 18- through 20-tournament
schedule instead of the 22-, 23-tournament schedule that I have played before. But I don't
think that I should -- yeah, take a holiday during a Slam. So I did change my mind on
that.

Q. It was your fourth time here in the final at this tournament. Do you have an
explanation why?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: No, I don't. The only thing -- a little bit explanation is that it is
an indoor event where I just like to play indoors. But I cannot even say it is the time of
the year, because the other two times when I was in the final, it was in February. So it
is just somehow a good event for me. I like the site. The German crowd is always very
enthusiastic and, of course, more enthusiastic when you play against Boris - I remember I
played against him last year and especially in Essen a couple -- when it was one year in
Essen, always a great atmosphere. Even if you don't play a German guy, it is a very tennis
knowledgeable crowd. Maybe that is the reason why I play good here. There must be some
reason. And if I can find out what it is, I will for sure create the same environment in
all my other tournaments and then, yeah, I am unbeatable, No. 1.

Q. That was just one overrule here in the final; your first final, the overrule on the
matchpoint (inaudible)--

RICHARD KRAJICEK: Yeah, that left a little bad after taste for me. But, yeah, it was
great two years later I took the revenge against the same guy which I had nothing against
Michael, but it was nice to basically replay the final and then win it. Yeah, that was a
very, very tough call to overrule the cyclops on matchpoint down, it is -- yeah, it is a
pretty gutsy call.

Q. Especially when your name is Judge. The umpire's name was Judge.

RICHARD KRAJICEK: I knew his last name. I didn't know his first name. He didn't
"Judge" too much after that.

Q. You came out at the start of this match like a rocket, I mean, there was about four
games before you dropped a point on the serve of the you broke immediately. Was that the
legacy of your match with Sampras, that mentally you were fired up from that point?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: Yeah, I think so, a little bit and also maybe last year, yeah, it
happened exactly opposite. The result of the match, but also beginning I just got blown
away and maybe I with a just a little bit more fired up. I felt pretty relaxed. Normally
last year I remember I was pretty nervous, and this year I felt just a little bit more
relaxed, and, yeah, somehow I just started off great. The first point of the match was
maybe the best point of the match, and yeah, I just kept on going right from that point
on.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT