EUROCARD OPEN
October 25, 1997
Richard Krajicek
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Is Hannover very seriously starting to beckon now? 
 
 RICHARD KRAJICEK: Yes, it is still a very important time. I mean, yeah, tomorrow is, of
course -- I mean, obviously the further you get into the tournament, the more points you
get, so if I win tomorrow, I am awfully close or maybe I even qualify. If I lose tomorrow,
then there is still some work to be done. So, yeah, tomorrow is really -- today was still
a match like "See how it goes" and Jonas is playing well and was very confident
and "See how I was playing today." But, yeah, now I am, of course, thinking that
-- yeah, that I am back in the race even though at the beginning of the week I -- to be
honest, especially when I saw my draw, I thought it was going to be very difficult to be
in Hannover this year. 
 
Q. I think if you win tomorrow you are going to be in the top 8 going into the last two
weeks anyway.
 
 RICHARD KRAJICEK: Yeah, I think so. So, yeah, it is a big one tomorrow. And, it is, for
sure, a nicer perspective to look at myself in the ATP weekly -- with the rankings that I
am in first 8. Instead of that, I have to ask someone from the ATP how the guys in the Top
15 are standing. So, I am looking forward to tomorrow. It is an interesting match not only
for a title, but also for making this a pretty successful year which has been okay. I won
three titles; made the quarters of the Slam, of course, compared to last year was a little
bit - so far, a little bit disappointing. Now I can still make my year - finish it on a
very positive note. 
 
Q. Perhaps a few words to your opponent Petr Korda. 
 
 RICHARD KRAJICEK: About? 
 
Q. Tomorrow.
 
 RICHARD KRAJICEK: A very talented player. He is a great shot-maker and you saw today
also against Rafter, I mean, sometimes he starts to miss a couple of shots in a row that
maybe he shouldn't. But then he can come up with some big passing shots, especially his
backhands, he can hit some beautiful shots. So, yeah, I think it is going to be a little
bit the same like today. I think Petr doesn't serve -- I mean, doesn't return as well as
Jonas does. I think Jonas has maybe the best return at the moment. So, that is going to be
maybe a little bit less pressure on my service games. But, yeah, I think he has a bigger
game, Jonas, doesn't hit the ball as hard, but Korda can hit a winner basically from every
position. I just have to be very sharp with my legs and pay very good attention because,
yeah, like I said, he can hit a winner from any position. 
 
Q. When have you last played a week this good tennis, what would you say? When was
that?
 
 RICHARD KRAJICEK: Yeah, I don't know. The whole week maybe I have to go back to
Wimbledon last year. I mean, I have had a couple of very good days and sets even. I mean,
not even a whole match, but I have played a couple of good sets this year and a couple of
good matches. But in a whole week where I was consistent, I think, yeah, it has been
awhile. 
 
Q. One feature of this week seems to be your concentration because there has been
momentary lapses but on the whole, it has been very sustained.
 
 RICHARD KRAJICEK: Yes, last two matches I have had a second set that went a little bit
down, maybe, but in the first two matches, they were very big ones. I mean, the whole
match I was concentrated; especially against Sampras. Yeah, you have to. I mean, he takes
his chances and that is what I really like about my match against Sampras. That is what
happened actually, those two breaks at 4-All normally it happens the other way around.
Normally it is Sampras - the better or the higher ranked player who is the more confident
and those who gear up on the big moments. This week, yeah, when it really counted, I was
there and today almost I broke him back in the second set also. So, yeah, I am happy with
my concentration and that I am able to raise my level when it gets important. And, that is
what really counts. You don't have to play well when you are 4-Love up. It counts, of
course, when it is 3-All or 4-All. 
 
Q. When you get a big win like that, do you feed off it for the rest of the week in
terms of confidence and ability to play better?
 
 RICHARD KRAJICEK: Yeah, I think so. When I played Boris, my first set I was still
suffering from the week before because I was playing well in Vienna and in Lyon I was also
playing well. I was beating Santoro very easy in the second round, 6-2 no problems. Then
suddenly I couldn't break him and I was a little bit unfortunate in the tiebreaker, second
set, and then I lose the tiebreaker in the third set. And, yeah, suddenly last couple of
days in practice before the match against Boris I was just not hitting the ball well. I
really noticed it. I made one point first five games on his serve; then somehow, what
happened in Lyon the other way around when I was a better player, I lost the second set
tiebreaker and now against Boris, I was actually the worst player, but I won the set and I
got confidence. And, then, yeah, I can -- of course, winning the first set against him
winning the match, yeah, just makes you looser on the court because you are not worried
about your game. You are just worried about winning points and winning games, winning the
match. And, it is very difficult to play a match if you are worrying about "Am I
going to hit the ball with my strings, this shot." 
 
Q. Tomorrow there will be the decision in the Formula I. What do you think? Who will
make it?
 
 RICHARD KRAJICEK: Well, I heard some very strange stories. I heard that they had
finished equal now in practice, but Villeneuve still has the pole position. Yeah, I have
no idea. Supposedly Villeneuve has the better car, but he hasn't really shown it this
year. So, yeah, it is going to be interesting. And, yeah, experience always is very
important. I know when Sampras plays the first-time finalist, so far, he has always kicked
him badly. I mean, Pioline - Wimbledon, and Moya - Australian Open, and a couple of
matches like that that the guy had no chance. So, maybe Schumacher will psych Villeneuve
out quickly. But yeah, in a way I have to go with Schumacher. I am just saying it to get
the German people behind me tomorrow. (laughter). 
 
Q. There are many players who own a Ferrari - Medvedev, Kafelnikov. What about you?
What is your car?
 
 RICHARD KRAJICEK: Well, yeah, that is really true. I like German cars because they are
a little bit more reliable than Italian cars, no offense. (audience laughter) So, I own a
German car and it, so far, hasn't let me down and I like it. And I like to sit in a car.
When I sit in a Ferrari my head goes down like this (indicating leaning over) because I am
hitting the roof, so I don't know how these guys can sit in it because they are all my
size. I mean, maybe something wrong with me. But, it is -- no, I just like a big
comfortable car and I just like to sit and that I just don't fall asleep because then I
make an accident, but I have to be very comfortable. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT