EUROCARD OPEN
October 23, 1997
Richard Krajicek
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Looks like you have Pete's number?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: Yeah, at the moment I am 4-2 up so, yeah, it is going pretty good.
And, I am happy I won today to keep the winning edge over him. It is always important for
the next matches.

Q. After beating Boris, just having Sampras the next day, what is it like?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: It looked like a very difficult draw. I was seeded first round Boris,
second round Sampras.

Q. Never happened before?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: I don't think it happens too often. And, yeah, Boris has started not
so good. First set I didn't make too many returns until 6-5, I made one point, I think.
And, then, yeah, set point, I started to play a little bit better in the tiebreaker. And
since then, I won the tiebreaker with a little bit of luck. Then I played more confident.
I played a good second set and today both sets, I felt very good on the court. 

Q. Do you still have hopes to qualify for Hannover or is it not really a goal that you
have in your mind?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: At the moment, I am playing match-by-match. I mean, after losing
twice in Vienna and Lyon - which was a little bit unfortunate - I had some chances twice,
7-6 in the third set, yeah, then I made it very difficult for myself. I have to win, for
sure, one tournament and maybe semifinal and the other one. So, yeah, I just play every
match now and maybe if I do very well here like the semis, finals or maybe win, then I can
start thinking of maybe making Hannover. But, at the moment, I just try to play as good as
possible and try to finish the year as high as possible.

Q. You are 26 right now. Do you think normally that is the age when a player reaches
their peak? Do you think you are there or you are still --

RICHARD KRAJICEK: I don't know. I think 25 is more when you reach your peak. Last year.
(laughs). I think physically you should be in almost the best shape. You are fully grown
and you are the strongest, I think, so I think, yeah, last year, this year, next couple
two, three years should be my best years, I think. And I hope I can do it the next couple
of years, play my best tennis. I think I am playing better tennis. Only times I lose
matches that I shouldn't lose. That is very costly. But, tennis-wise and physically,
everything, I feel much better than I did five years ago and I hope I can, yeah, to
convert it into results.

Q. I don't see many Dutch press here. Do you think they are spoiled because you already
won Wimbledon so they don't care about anything else or there is another reason, and
tennis is not doing well in Holland or what?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: Well, you say "spoiled." I have another name for them. But,
let us not go into that. I don't know, maybe it is too far. I mean, next week is Paris and
it is closer to Holland, so I think there will be some more journalists there. The only
real interesting thing for the press is to write about the Grand Slams, so maybe they are
a little bit spoiled. I mean, I think before, if a Dutch player would play No. 1 in the
world, then they would all come and watch and now, yeah, they look at home and I think in
their favorite position in front of the couch in front of the TV.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT