US OPEN
September 3, 1997
Richard Krajicek
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How much of a factor was the wind out there?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: You noticed it, of course, a lot. But, yeah, you both play with the
wind. I got the first break right away the first game. Instead of consolidating, I gave it
all on a silver platter to him. I missed two easy volleys. I don't know. Of course, you
miss it a little bit because of the wind. I think if I was just a little bit sharper, then
I wouldn't have missed that. That was already an indication for the rest of the match for
me. I look at it afterward, that's basically where disaster started.

Q. How much improvement in his game have you seen? I mean, how different is he now?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: Today is a tough day to judge, because there's so much wind. He makes
a couple of returns, and before he didn't make too many returns. Still has got a good
serve. His volley has improved also a little bit. But, yeah, today is a tough day to judge
how much he really improved, because there's a lot of wind. Nobody could play at their
best game.

Q. Richard, what sort of a wind was it? Was it one end was more difficult? Swirling all
the time?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: No, basically on the right side of the umpire, you had a strong wind
in your back, went a little bit to the right. But basically one wind. Picked up. Sometimes
it was stronger than other times. Wasn't too swirly, actually. It's difficult, you know.
One side you touch the ball and it flies. Other side, you want to hit it, doesn't even
reach the net.

Q. You had set point in the third set.

RICHARD KRAJICEK: Sorry?

Q. You had a big chance.

RICHARD KRAJICEK: Yeah. I mean, he hits two backhands in a row. Don't see that too
often from him. It was a shame. I had a good serve. He had unbelievable return. Then he
come over to pass. It was a shame. Got a little tight obviously at 5-4. I win both points
on his serve. This was my chance, suddenly from him being so close to winning, to take it
to a fourth set. Probably will be a little bit discouraged, jump on him right away in the
fourth set. Afterwards, maybe should have served to the forehand. I think I served a good
first serve. He just came up with a big return.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT