US OPEN
September 1, 1997
Richard Krajicek
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. What were your thoughts when Sampras lost? How did that change your outlook or did
it? 
 
 RICHARD KRAJICEK: I think it was the reason why I was probably a little bit tight the
first couple of games. I started to think about the rest of the draw instead of just
concentrating in match. Thinking too much about what a great chance with the draw opening
up. I have to first beat this guy. Then I have to play somebody who beat me four out of
five times before I can worry that I'm not going to play Sampras eventually, maybe, in the
semifinals. That was very strange. I think I just answered the question. I think I should
just worry about my next match first. If I win that, try to take advantage of that player,
his game, his experience not in the draw anymore. 
 
Q. How would you rate this as a serving night before? I don't think you ever faced one
breakpoint.
 
 RICHARD KRAJICEK: I think it was a good serving night. I was especially happy with my
serve and volley game. I've not been happy with that the last couple weeks, it's been on
and off. I think I missed two or three unnecessary volleys. The rest, I made everything.
That was very good. So very solid performance. If I didn't serve well, I backed it up with
a good volley. That's important. I mean, you cannot only depend on your serve. You have to
back it up with something else. 
 
Q. What's the improvement you feel you've made going this time playing Rusedski
compared to New Haven? What do you think you have to improve on?
 
 RICHARD KRAJICEK: Not too much. I think what happened the other time in New Haven, I
came back from one set all, first set tiebreaker, I was 3-Love up. I should have won the
first set. Second set I win with a break. Third set, I win easy volley on the net to level
1-All in the third. I don't know what I do. I just didn't concentrate so well. Then he
breaks me. He serves it out. So I think I just have to be sharp, even if I'm 40-Love up,
have an easy volley, concentrate on my service games because it's important. Once one of
us is up a break, then I think we both serve better when we're ahead and it goes quicker
and quicker. Before you know it, you serve the set out. I think it's important to focus on
your serve, on your won service games, my service games, know that eventually I'll get my
chances to break him. 
 
Q. Did you watch the Sampras match?
 
 RICHARD KRAJICEK: I saw the first set and a half, actually, set and 3-Love up. I
thought it was no problem. Then there was a bad call at 15-30. Then I still thought that
he was going to win. Then I saw in the end when he was a break up again in the fifth. I
saw last couple of games. Korda was winning his games easier and easier. In the
tiebreaker, he came up with some big shots. A big ace. Actually, until Sampras hit the
double-fault, I still thought he had a good chance of winning the tiebreaker. You think
the guy is so good, somehow he wins those matches like last year against Corretja when he
couldn't move. When he hit the double-fault, I saw that it was over. 
 
Q. What first went through your head in terms of the draw?
 
 RICHARD KRAJICEK: Like I said, I was thinking too much about what an opportunity. Then
I got a little bit nervous about that in the beginning of this match. Two more matches to
go before I eventually might maybe face the guy, Pete Sampras. That was very stupid and
unprofessional of me. I don't think it will happen next match.  
 
Q. You've won a Slam, you've been much further than Greg has ever been. Is that
experience going to be a key factor?
 
 RICHARD KRAJICEK: I hope so. I'm going to have that in my mind. He's going to have in
his mind that he's beaten me four to five times. I'll have that he's never passed the
quarterfinals. We both will probably fool ourselves a little bit by saying we have an
advantage over each other (laughter). We'll just see who is going to make it Wednesday or
Thursday, whenever we play. 
 
Q. Do you actually enjoy all these 7-6 matches with Greg? Inevitably seems to go to
tiebreak, seven out of the 13 sets you've played.
 
 RICHARD KRAJICEK: Yeah. Especially first sets, we got a lot of times to the tiebreaker
because we both serve big, and also it's beginning of a match, so you don't know where
somebody is going to serve. As the match goes on, you start to pick the serve a little
bit, the ball toss, the favorite serves. As the match goes on, then you have more chances
to break him. First set, yeah, we have a tough time getting any points on each other's
serve. 
 
Q. Richard, was it hard to pick yourself up after losing your Wimbledon title? Your
form going into Wimbledon was very good.
 
 RICHARD KRAJICEK: Yeah. It was very disappointing, especially the last two sets against
him, maybe even more the last set that I played. The next day was like an anticlimax. Then
I was down for about two days, really down, and disappointed. I think the fact that I lost
not to somebody who really was -- who really didn't give me a chance. He could have won
the second set. Could have been two sets to Love up and beat me in straight. Then I
probably wouldn't have had such a bad feeling. Then I would have lost to a better player
that day. Because I won that set, was a break up in the third, I let the match slip
myself. I really felt that I lost the title myself. I didn't lose to a much better player.
I lost a little bit because I didn't take my chances. That I think was the most
frustrating part. You can lose, that's part of sport and of tennis. But that I didn't lose
it -- that it was my own fault, that really bothered me the most. Then I was down for two
days. I went on holiday and I just started -- I didn't touch a racquet for two weeks, but
I was working out a lot, hour and a half, two hours a day, running, swimming, just
sweating all the negative energy and all the disappointment out. You know, I decided to
make a fresh start in the States. I was fresh. Mentally I was unbelievable fresh
(laughter). Couldn't hit a ball in the court. I don't know if it was aftereffect from
Wimbledon, but it took me a couple of weeks. Cincinnati was a bit better. I thought New
Haven was my first real good tournament. It was a shame that I lost. That was my first
tournament after Wimbledon that I felt, "Yeah. It's going well now." It took me
three tournaments actually. 
 
Q. Presumably you'd rather play a British player here than at Wimbledon.
 
 RICHARD KRAJICEK: I think so. It will be a little bit more of a fair crowd in the sense
that I think they'll yell about the same loudness for him as they do for me. It will be
okay. I would have liked to -- I would like to do it again, play him and beat him. I
remember when I was a break up in the third, people were nice and quiet. It was such a
beautiful moment. Maybe I enjoyed that too much instead of focusing on winning the second.
Like when I played Becker last year in the Masters, I was a set up, had him. People got
quieter, quieter. Perfect. 12,000, 13,000 people, get them under control. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT