GREAT AMERICAN INSURANCE ATP CHAMPIONSHIP
August 4, 1997
Richard Krajicek
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







JOE LYNCH: Richard Krajicek now moves into the second round and has won 3 titles this
year. And who do you play tomorrow or actually Wednesday?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: Martin damn. Okay thank you. 

Q. You looked pretty sharp out there tonight how do you come into this tournament
feeling?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: So far I have to say this is probably the best I have felt here. I
have struggled here with my form or I have come from a tournament from L.A. and I have
played a lot of matches and I was not adjusted I think not too good to the heat, whatever
at the moment I feel pretty good. I started in L.A. wasn't too happy with my game and my
last match in Montreal was my first match that I felt the ball better even though I lost
it to change so I feel my game is going upward I am happy that I won tonight and a few
better things I have found again in my game today. If I just make sure that I don't lose
my serve on 40-Love up next time then I think it will be okay for next couple of matches. 

Q. (inaudible)

RICHARD KRAJICEK: I have made a lot of returns and I moved okay, backhand side was
okay. Yeah, I just going to work a little more on my forehand I wasn't too happy. I just
got a little bit close to the ball sometimes when I really wanted to go for it. In the
rallies I wanted to finish the shot. A little problems, so, that is about the only thing I
really wasn't happy about. Serving was okay and he has got a good return, so you have to
give him credit for a couple of shots also. I missed a couple of volleys, but I think it
is also because he returned so good. I still made a couple of mistakes. I feel it is going
better every match. That pleases me. Like I said the return goes well and that is
important also have course, you have to win the serve, but also put the guy under pressure
and know that you are going to make a lot of returns and that he has to serve well to win
the game.

Q. Tough match for the first round?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: Yes, very tough match. I am seeded and I am playing guy ranked almost
top 20 and he just came off a final. I think it was little bit rusty I think it was his
first match since then I was little bit injured on his arm if I am not mistaken. On the
court, it was okay match, but on paper it was very first tough first round of course the
mental aspect after I lost that game from 42 to 4-3 then I thought maybe he is going to
get over it and get more confident, get better and I was a little bit I am not happy that
I let him back in the set actually and a guy ranked 100 you don't worry about it. You are
not happy, but it is okay, but a guy like this who just came off a good result you don't
know what is going to happen.

Q. 

Q. Did you change your routine at all coming into this tournament this year doing
anything differently?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: No, didn't win as many matches as most of the other years. I lost to
Henman I think on Wednesday and more than two weeks later on Saturday I came to L.A. I was
in the friends house in Portugal and I worked out everyday running for hour and a half.
And so I kept in good shape and not touching the racket really made me hungry for the ball
even though I am not happy with the way my game is going I am really happy with high
necessary and eagerness to play matches and just be out there, even after, yeah, a couple
of not such good matches, my spirit is very high I think that was very good and very
important and I am happy that I am finally doing that with my schedule and at after the
U.S. Open similar taking four weeks off. I think it is very good for my game and for my
mental part of my game also. 

Q. Because of the way this year has played out a little bit with the Grand Slams, do
you feel sort of more going after it for the Open, do you feel like you really beginning
for that a little bit more?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: Yeah, I have to say it is for sure a different feeling than last
year. I was much more relaxed and too relax in a way and now I really feel I am very eager
to play and I am not hitting the ball as well as last year, but, yeah, I think I have
something to prove and first round of Wimbledon was a very disappointing and especially
the way I lost that match I think I had my chances and that was a shame, especially after
you win the title the year before and then-- I think now the Open is more important than
maybe than ever before for me and I really want to do well there. I am looking forward to
it. 

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT