ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 22, 1996
Richard Krajicek
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Was it the best week for you, Richard, since Wimbledon?
 
RICHARD KRAJICEK:  It is the most top 10 or actually top five players I have beaten in one week since in a long time.  Actually, I don't know the last time I did it.  Not even Wimbledon I did it, I think.  So, I think it was.  I mean, L.A. I played okay.  I mean, I made the finals.  But, of course, the guys I played were much lower ranked.  And, today, this week, so many different factors.  And, the rankings of the players I have played are very high.  And, because I haven't played so well in a long time, it was also difficult.  So, yeah, overall, I think it is by far, actually, my best.  
 

Q.  Your feelings when you were up 5-Nil, all of a sudden 5-3.  How about your feelings on the 9th point?
 
RICHARD KRAJICEK:  The first set? 
 

Q.  Yeah.
 
RICHARD KRAJICEK:  I was not happy, of course, that I let him come back to 5-3.  Should have just made 6-2, because, yeah, if I would maybe not hit a good serve or he would hit a good return or something like that, suddenly it is 5-4, then advantage of the tiebreaker would be gone.  I felt a little pressure at 5-3 because I really wanted to win that point. Would have been really, yeah, basically won the tiebreak already at 5-Love.  And, I basically would have given the first set away.  So, yeah, I had a few thoughts crossing my mind. 
 

Q.  After that second set, including the public, was a bit difficult for you?
 
RICHARD KRAJICEK:  Yeah, I was not happy with myself in the tiebreaker of the second set.  The whole tiebreaker I probably -- also, the game before I served only to his backhand and I don't know, when was it, 3-All, he already waited for the wide serve and he missed it.  But, I should have just seen that he was waiting for it.  And, I served again to his backhand at 5-All and he picked it.  I mean, you can lose a set, it doesn't matter, but, strategically, that was a very stupid play of mine.  That was the thing that bothered me the most. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT