GREAT AMERICAN INSURANCE ATP CHAMPIONSHIP
August 8, 1996
Richard Krajicek
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Can you talk about how disappointed you are or what you were expecting from
yourself?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: I am feeling, yeah, pretty good mentally like I am in a way pretty
confident, but, yeah, I was expecting a little bit more. Especially after yesterday, I was
very hot and I was a lot happy to win because I was struggling in the end and today I was
happy with the night match, I felt it is good. I am hitting the ball well and the weather
conditions wouldn't bother me. Yeah, I missed -- didn't make as many returns as I would
like to and, as I said, Thomas was serving very big and he hit big shots. He can go for it
and he works the ball. And my first serve percentage wasn't very good so he got a lot of
second serves and at one stage he got in a little rhythm. Close tiebreaker, I think that
was the key. And from there on, yeah, my serve percentage stayed low and he just on to
more returns and he hit a lot of aces. And of course, you'd like to do well here. I have
never done well here. It is unbelievable. I knew I never did well here because it is so
hot, but today was my chance to go to the quarterfinals for the first time and
unfortunately I didn't do it.

Q. Has the heat always been something that bothered you throughout your career?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: If it is very humid -- heat doesn't bother me too much. Like in
Australia, I never had a problem BUT it is always here, which is -- especially Cincinnati,
so -- New York sometimes can get hot, but I always manage to get through that somehow, but
Cincinnati, yeah, I think is the toughest tournament on the Tour temperaturewise.

Q. You played Washington?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: No, I am avoiding that.

Q. Do you accept the theory that guys play harder against the Wimbledon champion or
champion of a Grand Slam event? I mean, in your experience have you played harder against
Wimbledon champs, do you think now that people are maybe playing harder against you?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: Could be. I mean, they are more pumped up. I think it goes together
that when somebody is more pumped up then maybe also on the big points, you get a little
bit tighter, so in a way it is a little bit disadvantage, but sometimes on big points, it
could be an advantage, if guys feel like they are more comfortable when they go on the
court.

Q. In your experience have you been more pumped up playing with a Grand Slam winner?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: No, in a way you look more at the rankings because the higher
somebody is ranked the more bonus points you get, so I think that is more an incentive you
get.

Q. How do you approach the Open? A lot of times, you know, players have said whoever
wins Wimbledon and U.S. Open is really, you know, in their minds the No. 1 player for the
year. Do you approach it any differently knowing that or --

RICHARD KRAJICEK: No, not really. I have never passed the fourth round in the Open, so,
yeah, I am not thinking too much of the Open yet. Like last year, I changed my strategy
about the Grand Slams because I always used to think four, five weeks before the Grand
Slams started about what I am going to do in the Grand Slam and never worked out. Now I
was thinking like I am just going to play every tournament before and when I lose my last
match before the Grand Slam, that is when I start thinking about the Grand Slams. So
basically, I am just trying to play as good as possible tournament next week in New Haven;
win all the matches and, yeah, it is going to be warm there also. It is close to New York,
which is good, and in that sense I will think of the Open, but not anymore than that. And
if I am finished in New Haven, then I am just going to practice and play as good as
possible, but I don't have such a great record in U.S. Open, so I think I have to try to
get past the fourth round; then maybe I can look further, but I think that is my goal to
maybe try to reach the quarterfinals this year.

Q. Is that what you did at Wimbledon, you just tried not to think of it as Wimbledon,
kind of just played it like a tournament?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: Yeah, you try to. Of, course it is impossible because it is
Wimbledon, but normally, like one or two tournaments before I was thinking too much about
it and practicing like really working towards the Grand Slam and now I am just, you know,
I am trying to play next week as good as possible. I am practicing basically for next week
and if that tournament is finished, then I am going to start to think how I am going to
prepare for the Open.

Q. Do you see Thomas as kind of a rising star? What did he do against you tonight
different?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: He just had a big game. Yeah, I think if I moved a little bit better
on my returns I could make it tough for him because a couple of games that I got the
return back, then I had chances to break him or at least we had a very tight game. Yeah,
he is a good player. Last year he had a great summer. He finished top 10, I think, at the
end of the year and this year he is struggling a little bit. I think this is his best
result for a while, that he made quarterfinals, and, he is young. Yeah, he has got a big
game and it is tough coming back after such a great year as last year, but I think he is
starting to handle it a little bit and I don't know if he is a rising star. He made
quarterfinals Australian Open and he has won a lot of tournaments already, so he is not a
star yet, but -- yeah, he is pretty good.

Q. What have you done with your Wimbledon trophy or where is it?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: It is in the case in my house in Monaco and I don't know, I think my
mom is bugging me to put it in her house, but.....

Q. You didn't put anything in it?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: No. No. No nachos, no nothing (AUDIENCE LAUGHTER)

Q. Have you seen that?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: I heard about it.

RICHARD KRAJICEK: You haven't seen it. It is very small, the cup.

Q. You can use it as a wine glass.

RICHARD KRAJICEK: Yeah, almost. It is not the big one.

Q. Your mother has to negotiate with you to get it.

RICHARD KRAJICEK: I don't know, there is nothing she can give me, basically, in return,
which is -- I think she is going to bug me 'til I finally and so sick that she talks about
it that maybe I will finally give it to her.

Q. At least nobody will steal it?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: But if I want it back I will never get it back either. That is the
problem.

RICHARD KRAJICEK: Okay.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT