GREAT AMERICAN INSURANCE ATP CHAMPIONSHIP
August 7, 1996
Richard Krajicek
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Richard, considering you are keeping up that momentum after Wimbledon (inaudible)?
 
 RICHARD KRAJICEK: Tenniswise, I am playing okay. I am just very happy with the way I am
just -- I am winning matches. I mean, last week I did not have the feeling that I wasn't
playing that great tennis, but when it counted I came up with big shots. I was in the
quarterfinals; guy was serving for the match, I came up with, you know, basically my first
passing shots of the match and so, yeah, I still remember how to win, just, yeah,
tenniswise, I just have to get it together. And practice is already going much better.
Like today I wasn't too happy, I missed too many forehands. But the day will come. As long
as I keep winning, I think the confidence is only going to build up my game. 
 
Q. You already played a tournament or two since Wimbledon. Have you already noticed
that the other players are approaching you in a different manner on and off the court?
 
 RICHARD KRAJICEK: No, only thing that you notice, I thinks, almost every player
congratulated me that has seen me and on the court. I don't know if the players approach
me differently, but I, for sure, feel very good on the court like I am very confident and
a match like today, the heat was getting to me, but I came up with some goods shots, yeah,
at the big points to finish the match. And Vince had a quite easy shot to go up 6-2 in the
tiebreaker; maybe he got a little tight, maybe that has something to do with it, but from
my own perspective, yeah, I feel very good on the court. 
 
Q. Have you ever felt like that before?
 
 RICHARD KRAJICEK: No, not really. You have -- sometimes you feel confident with good
streaks, but yeah, this is different somehow. Because then I won a tournament or something
and I kept playing good; I was hitting the ball very good. But now, like I said, I don't,
in a way, feel that I am hitting the ball unbelievable. But I am doing the right things
and I am winning matches. I am winning the matches in the end most of the times,
so….. 
 
Q. Are the fans treating you differently since you have won Wimbledon? Are you getting
more attention from them?
 
 RICHARD KRAJICEK: Yeah, I think so, yeah, people and the media also; have done a lot of
TV interviews last week, and, yeah, signing a couple more autographs than I normally would
and more people are watching my practice now also than they did before. 
 
Q. Richard, how long did it take to really sink in after you won, that you realized
that you had won?
 
 RICHARD KRAJICEK: Sometimes -- sometimes it hasn't sunk in yet, but I think it took
like four, five days, took like about 20 or 30 rewinds on the matchpoint and then when I
got bored with it, watching it, then I realized it, I guess. 
 
Q. (Inaudible.)
 
 RICHARD KRAJICEK: Both were pretty exciting, I guess, but yeah, the main thing is,
yeah, the finish, of course, no comparison. But in a way, I have to say, walking on the
court and the girl ran past but like walking on the court and the guy carrying the bags,
that was also a highlight for me in a way, but I finished it off nicely by winning the
match in the end. 
 
Q. What was it like when you went back to Holland the day after, the two days after?
 
 RICHARD KRAJICEK: I haven't been back to Holland yet. 
 
Q. You haven't been back?
 
 RICHARD KRAJICEK: No. I am going back after U.S. Open and then just going to be a few
official invitations from the city where I grew up and they are going to have little
things, but I haven't been back in Holland. I just saw the press, the newspapers which
were pretty big, and the rest, I went -- yeah, I went to Monaco for a couple of days,
holidays. Then I basically went into the mountains in Austria where I always go to after
Wimbledon and holiday. Then I started to work out a little bit, cross-country biking and
running. Normally I do cross-country skiing, but, yeah, not this time. 
 
Q. Why didn't you go back, I mean, was it a deliberate decision to go to Monte Carlo
and not to go back to Holland or --
 
 RICHARD KRAJICEK: In a way, yes, decided before, those were my plans and I -- yeah,
four, five weeks off, especially five weeks off last two years because I played so bad in
Wimbledon, now I have the feeling like I was short of time and I felt, okay, I have to,
you know, yeah, think of myself, have the holiday and then start working out again. I had
the feeling that, yeah, it was better if I was going to do something, you know, official
engagement, it is better after the U.S. Open, then I stand for myself to think about
everything and my feelings would maybe distract me a little bit. 
 
Q. Did you get the match you expected from Vince today?
 
 RICHARD KRAJICEK: Yeah, everything happened the way I expected. In winning, I don't
know if I expected that, but the heat was very tough and, yeah, I lost to him once. We
played once in Key Biscayne and I lost to him in two sets and, yeah, I think he likes to
play me because I come to the net a lot and he likes a target, so I knew it was going to
be difficult, but I was serving better than I did the other time we played. And I managed
to just hold serve all the time and a little bit lucky first set tiebreaker, but then the
second set, to break and at 5-All I played a very good game. 
 
Q. When you do go home, what do you think it is going to be like? Do people look at you
the way they look at Jordy (ph) (inaudible) and things like that or…..
 
 RICHARD KRAJICEK: I think they will recognize me, for sure, for a while. No, I think I
have done very big sporting achievement. I don't know how big it is in comparison to
anything, but I think still soccer is bigger because it is really a national sport, but,
yeah, it is a pretty big sporting achievement, so, yeah, I think people are proud and
happy that I have won. 
 
Q. You obviously would have received a lot of congratulatory messages after the win.
Who is the most influential people you have received one from?
 
 RICHARD KRAJICEK: From the Queen, I received one. Yeah, I thought that was very nice.
And the Princess, and her family and I felt that it was very nice. 
 
Q. What is the added pressure of being the Wimbledon champion? Do people expect you to
win regularly now?
 
 RICHARD KRAJICEK: Well, I felt it the first couple of games I have played in my first
match in L.A. and then I felt what am I worried about, like I am the champ and now I am
like relaxed about it and I enjoyed it and I see it as a plus; not as pressure. But first
couple of games, I was pretty tight when I played and now I am like much more relaxed
about it, and yeah, I think it is the right way. Like I am playing well, why should I
doubt myself in any way and if I lose, then, yeah, lose with dignity. Just do what you
have to do and so far I have been doing it, I think, pretty good and looking at it in a
positive way. I think, yeah, I should just, in a way, enjoy the next twelve months, not
that I shouldn't do anything, but every time I go on the court for the next 12 months --
11 months, unfortunately, I will be the Wimbledon champ, so I should look at it like that,
and it is much better, yeah, more enjoyable. 
 
Q. Have you changed your goals at all now, making a run to the top of the rankings, do
you think that is more comfortable or, do you think about that a little bit more?
 
 RICHARD KRAJICEK: A little bit. It is still, in a way, very far away. We have to just
see how it goes. I think -- my goals now for the end of the year is try to finish top 8. I
just make light goals for myself because -- my goals actually are to work hard and to play
my matches 100% and try 100% on the court and then the results will come eventually, so I
don't make too many, like, tough goals for myself, so -- because it is only -- I think it
is distracting in a way. But, yeah, so, I think top 8 is very realistic goal and, yeah, if
I make that, to qualify for the ATP Championships; maybe go higher from there. So, yeah, I
just have to see how it goes next couple of months. But top 8; maybe I will win the next
three tournaments and just to go a little bit more, but so far just try to be top 8 by the
end of the year and I think that is a very realistic goal. The biggest goal I have is to
stay -- to keep enjoying my tennis and in what I have achieved and to use it as an
advantage over my opponents in the matches. 
 
Q. Have you spoken to other players who have won Majors about how they handled the
fame, the fans, how to handle your time?
 
 RICHARD KRAJICEK: No, not at all. Not yet. Maybe it hasn't happened yet. Maybe it will
happen. I don't know, but it has not been a thought of mine. I talk to my coach a little
bit and my manager helps me out, of course, with the media, media side and so far, it has
been -- everything has been going very good and very easy and if I get really confused,
maybe I should talk to somebody else, but so far, no, -- like I said, I have been enjoying
it, so I don't feel too much pressure, actually. I don't really feel the need that I
should talk to any other champions or anything, but maybe if I get really confused, then
it is a good idea to do it. 
 
Q. Has life changed anyway from the tennis court, when you are not playing, I mean, --
 
 RICHARD KRAJICEK: No, only -- I have done like eight or nine TV interviews last week
and everybody -- a lot of press wanted to see my first practice in L.A., and all things
that -- yeah, just a little bit more attention in general, but this is my second week and
also colleagues, tennis players, just a new tournament again. Of course, they congratulate
you and it is a good thing to do, to win a Grand Slam, but life goes on and maybe if I go
back to Holland after the U.S. Open then, yeah, I see a change in the way the people maybe
act with me, but tennis is just colleagues, and four times a year, there is a Grand Slam
champion basically, so….. 
 
Q. (Inaudible.)
 
 RICHARD KRAJICEK: Last week was okay, but this week -- of course, I did an interview
here, but I wouldn't go out of my way and the time I spent last week I would not spend
this week doing TV interviews and everything. For one week it is good and I think an
obligation, in a way, it is nice to do. Now I think the U.S. Open is three weeks away, so
every week you begin first round again and a new opponent who is fresh and hungry to beat
you, so you have to be ready and be there to counter the attack. And one week you can have
a little bit of fun and spend more time on other things, but I think now I have to
concentrate on what is important; that is playing well here and next week and in the Open. 
 
Q. Where you will have a feeling?
 
 RICHARD KRAJICEK: Yeah, this time I have the feeling. Unless they change their minds.
Last couple of years I didn't play so well on hard court and…. 
 
Q. Have you been happy playing today when the sun was breaking off (inaudible)?
 
 RICHARD KRAJICEK: I felt this was the best time after the evening time because I think
playing second match is even worse, but it was -- yeah, it was pretty warm. I was happy to
win the second set. Three sets would have been more difficult, but last week I played
three night matches, so in a way, it is nice because it was pretty warm there also, but on
the other hand, I was really thinking like if I come to Cincinnati I don't play any night
matches; then it is going to be a lot tougher, but, yeah, I came through this and I think
tomorrow will be better, I think, I am more used to it. Yesterday was my first practice,
basically, in this heat, so it is getting better. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT