U.S. OPEN
August 30, 1994
Richard Krajicek
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Richard, can you talk about what goes through your mind as the tiebreak begins to
get away from you in the fourth set? 

RICHARD KRAJICEK: Exactly what you say, it's slipping away from me, slipping out of my
hands. I was already taking a shower in my head and suddenly I find myself 7-6 down and
actually two sets all and that's very tough. So, that's not a nice feeling. I really, you
know, relaxed at 6-Love and played the penalty almost -- played the penalty in that set. 

Q. Were you already up a break in the fourth set serving for the match and you lost
your serve at Love -- 

RICHARD KRAJICEK: 15. 

Q. 15? 

RICHARD KRAJICEK: Yes. 

Q. Have you ever been part of -- have you ever been part of something so crazy a match
-- 

RICHARD KRAJICEK: It was unbelievable at 5-3. I couldn't really blame myself too much.
I mean, he hit some great shots. I missed one volley, but hit three great shots to break
me and 6-1. The second match point he hits another running backhand, but after that I
tightened up. It was my fault I lost those points, but, you know, it was really a great
match and I'm just glad I won it. It's never nice to lose with match point and 6-Love in
the breaker and it never happened to me and it hasn't happened so far, thank God. 

Q. What did you do to get yourself back on track after that set was over? 

RICHARD KRAJICEK: I just tried to hang in because, like I said, I relaxed a little bit.
You relax then, you start to feel tired because when the match is over everything is okay
and I was already thinking about that a little bit and I was scared -- my body was a
little bit in that state of mind, that stage, so, I need like four, five games to get my
body fired up again. And luckily, I hung in there, holding my serves Love-40 down second
game in the fifth and I just somehow won that game and 2-All, 3-2, I really started to
feel the energy back in my body again and then I was okay. But it was really stupid of me,
just like a beginners or junior mistake, however you want to call it. Relaxing already
before it's over. 

Q. You weren't serving that hard any more at 6-Love in the tiebreaker; was it conscious
or were you in the shower already? 

RICHARD KRAJICEK: I just thought it was over or whatever and I thought it should be no
problem. It was really, really bad mistake. There was no -- you should finish a match. 

Q. You had a seventh match point in the tiebreaker with your serve again? 

RICHARD KRAJICEK: Yes. Then I -- that was a different thing. I felt I put the first
serve in the court and so I was really gone. Then I really felt the match slipping away,
not only the set, the match. I was not very happy about it, but I wasted some energy for
my next round. So, I hope I won't play the penalty for it in the next round. 

Q. When you were down Love-40 in the second game of the fifth set, I mean, were you
totally angry at yourself; what did you think about that? 

RICHARD KRAJICEK: I don't know, it's difficult to say. I was thinking little bit, of
course, of the tiebreaker. I should have finished it and, oh, in a way I just couldn't
imagine myself losing first round. I already lost one first round in a Slam this year and
I just didn't want to feel that again, and, yeah, I was very difficult because it really
looked like I was going to lose. I don't know what was going through my mind. Then I
started serving to his forehand and he missed a few forehands and I hung in there. 

Q. Are you friends? 

RICHARD KRAJICEK: Friends, I don't know is a big word. We know each other very well and
we have the same coach and we get along very well with each other, but a friend I call
somebody that I trust everything to and, no, I don't do that with him. I don't think I do
that with anybody on the tour. I have friends outside of tennis. 

Q. It was a very funny scene late in the fifth set when you called for a warning for
him when shot the ball in the air? 

RICHARD KRAJICEK: They were so bad with their calls. All the other weeks if you take a
little extra time you get a time right away, and I don't know what he was doing, blisters,
and he was arguing for two minutes with her and she was so bad on the rules. I felt like a
little policeman out there to remind her of the rules. It was so bad, really. Everybody
can make bad calls, but this was just -- I don't know what she was doing out there, but
this was like couple months ago and I thought that since after Wimbledon there were new
rules about the time, and she didn't enforce them once. 

Q. There was just one call when he argued when you got the break in the ninth game. Did
you see that ball go out? 

RICHARD KRAJICEK: Yeah, I saw it out, that's why I called it out. And the linesman
agreed with me. I don't know if I -- how you say, I talked her into it, but, yeah, I
really saw the ball go out. It was close, but of course when it's close then you always
see it in your favor and I saw it in my favor and the linesman also thought that. The
thing he didn't like about it is that she changed her mind a little bit. If she would have
said out straight away, I don't think he would have argued. Because she changed her mind,
I think he argued. 

Q. Is there a big rivalry between the two of you back home? 

RICHARD KRAJICEK: No, I don't think so. No, not really. I don't know what his ranking
is. Even with Haarhuis who is about the same ranking as me I don't think there's a
rivalry. Everyone does their own thing and we all get along okay and all the Dutch players
get along okay. 

Q. Who won the match on the Challenger circuit? 

RICHARD KRAJICEK: I won. 

Q. Can you tell me about you having beaten Sampras; how vulnerable do you think he is
at this moment with his ankle, actually? 

RICHARD KRAJICEK: I don't know. I mean I cannot feel what he's feeling, of course, but
I remember last year at Wimbledon the shoulder was supposedly pretty bad also, and I think
it was pretty bad and he won easily, Wimbledon. And last year also he had very bad shins
in Key Biscayne and he won a tournament very easy this year. So, he's so talented -- he
hits the ball so good and times he's like the magnet, like the ball goes to him, he
doesn't have to run so much. That's how it looks because he moves so well. Every time you
play against Sampras you get a little nervous. If you're like even on the whole match,
then it's okay; and if you're losing, it's okay; but if you get the feeling that you can
beat him, you feel a little different and you can tighten up. So, I don't know. I think
after the first two matches he will be okay. Because he hasn't played so long, he'll be a
little rusty in the beginning, but I know painkillers can do a lot for you and I think
it's going to help him, so I think he'll be okay if he gets through the first two matches.


Q. And the key to your beating him was what? 

RICHARD KRAJICEK: I was playing well, I was serving well, and I think already he had
the problem with his ankle and he wasn't moving as well, which is one of his strengths. I
can't really say how well he played. He didn't play, of course, as well as he did in
Wimbledon or in the first match against Eltingh, but I played well, and how he felt I
cannot really -- I think he was playing 70, 80 percent. I cannot really tell. 

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT