U.S. OPEN
September 7, 1993
Richard Krajicek
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What impresses you about his game?

RICHARD KRAJICEK:  He is pretty -- he is pretty strong guy.   I mean, he has good serve and he hits the ball pretty hard from the baseline, although today it was not too bad.  Like the way he was passing, that is the way he normally hits all the time. But today I think was the wind maybe got his timing a little bit in the rally, but he is very strong in the baseline and he has got a great serve and physically he is very strong.  So I think, yeah, those are his two big weapons actually, or three big weapons.


Q. Is that court slower than the stadium court, Richard?

RICHARD KRAJICEK:  I don't know.  I haven't played on stadium.  But compared to the other courts, it is slower, yeah.  It is a little bit difficult for a serve and volley player to play well there.


Q. When you broke him towards the end of the fourth set, you got into the tiebreaker.  Did you think in your mind that you were headed for a fifth set?

RICHARD KRAJICEK:  Yeah, I felt good.  I should have won the set at 5-4.  Should have come in, actually.  I didn't.  And then, yeah, I lost my serve and actually he really won it.  I mean, he hit a running passing shot and half volley forehand off a big shot of me and the backhand lob and I missed the volley.  I was pretty down after that.  Suddenly, I got back in the match and then you feel good, but I open with a doublefault, so, yeah, that is not so good to open a tiebreaker with.  I was trailing all the time even though I was 4-3; I got back on serve.  It was still difficult.  I was serving against the wind.  He got one of the points and then he served it out.


Q. What happened in the third set?

RICHARD KRAJICEK:  Third set, yeah, I won the second set and then won the first point on the serve, first game, and then second point, yeah, I just suddenly I missed the court by about ten feet; next point also.  I just couldn't hit a ball on the court in that game.  Then he held serve and he held serve 1-0; then I lost my serve in a stupid way.  Then suddenly 2-0, and 3-0; then lost my serve again. I broke back, and it was just a very weird set, and yeah, I actually gave him that set instead of having him to fight for it a little bit.  It is a little bit of a present from me, and yeah, I didn't make him didn't make him work hard for that set.  So it was -- yeah, I was straight-a-way after playing a good second set, I was behind again.  So it is always difficult.


Q. Do you know what your chances are now of making the final 8 for Frankfurt?

RICHARD KRAJICEK:  It is still pretty good.  I have four tournaments to go, and they are all indoors, and yeah, I think I can beat anybody indoors, so I think they are pretty good.  I don't think about that too much, but you just have to make good results and I think it is possible for me on the indoor courts.


Q. Thank you.

RICHARD KRAJICEK:  Thank you.    


End of FastScripts....


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT