COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
December 8, 1992
Richard Krajicek
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  You were here for the first time and you were also -- for the first time in Frankfurt.  Can you compare these two tournaments and share your impressions of both of them, comparing? 

RICHARD KRAJICEK:  Well, the difference is that these are 16 players and there are eight players and they are the eight highest ranked players in Frankfurt and here the 16 players who perform best in Grand Slams.  I think that is about the only difference and you play just -- when you lose, you can go home and take a shower.  Frankfurt, you still have a chance to make the semis if you lose your first match.  So this is about the only difference. 


Q.  There is no difference with the atmosphere or the organization of the tournaments, so it is all the same in Frankfurt and Munich it's the same? 

RICHARD KRAJICEK:  Of course, there are a few little differences, maybe in the organization, I don't know, but no big differences.  Yeah, enjoy the tournament as long as I play in front of a crowd and it is always fun to play and then you shouldn't think what kind of tournament it is or whatever; you just try to do your best and don't think too much about anything. 


Q.  Richard, how have you been able -- are you healthy now? You have had the problems with your shoulder. 

RICHARD KRAJICEK:  Yeah, I feel fit.  I am okay at the moment.  I feel pretty good.  Yeah, last time I had problems was the French Open and I have been taking good care of it with my coach and my physical coach and trying to work and strengthen my whole body just to get rid of the injuries and see what happens.  I hope next year it is going to be -- I am going to finish all the tournaments.  If not, then I hope the year after that.  I am just going to try to work on my physical condition to just get my body stronger, so that I don't have to worry about those kind of little things. 


Q.  This year, Richard, things have gone really well for you, top 10 and all that for the first time.  Have you set yourself a specific target for 1993? 

RICHARD KRAJICEK:  Well, it is difficult to talk -- I mean, it's my second year.  It's going to be my year after a good year and, yeah, people say it is going to be more difficult, of course, and so what I have to do is to work hard, and try to make my game so solid that I just don't lose unnecessary matches.  I think that is the only way to stay up there and to go high in the rankings.  I think that is what I have to do, work hard and practice.  Work on my weaknesses and go out 200 percent in every match; give it all you got.  If it doesn't go, it doesn't go. That is the only thing you can do.  I think that is the only goal you should have. 


Q.  Richard, a surface like this is good for your game because of your big serve.  Do you think this surface is good for tennis, a surface this fast? 

RICHARD KRAJICEK:  The surface is very fast.  I mean, it's-- I think it's the fastest surface I played this year.  Even faster than Frankfurt. Almost impossible, but yeah, the points are fast, and even against somebody like Emilio who is normally a baseliner, he is forced to go to the net.  I don't know, but -- if they have the surface, I am not going to think about it and play my game and try to do my best and if it is going to be a slower surface, next year, I will do the same.  But I don't think too much about the surface.  Maybe it is not good for tennis, I don't know.  I am just going to go out there and I am doing my work and try not to think about secondary things like surface and balls and whatever. 


Q.  Richard, there was a moment Emilio thought the ball was out.  Did you think you got it okay? 

RICHARD KRAJICEK:  Well, he just-- I think he made a mistake because it was a half volley.  It was not like I bounced almost for the second time. It was-- I almost could volley it at once, so it was just a misjudgment from his side, I think.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT