ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 18, 1992
Richard Krajicek
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  What turned around from last Saturday night in Antwerp for you, Richard, when you beat him? 
 
RICHARD KRAJICEK:  I think I was just a little bit less aggressive, especially in the second and third, and I just let him get back into the match in the first set already, I think.  I was playing well.  He had a few chances to break me, but I should have been 5-2 up eventually.  I didn't take the chance.  I won the first set but he got a little bit of his rhythm back, and I think that that is where the problems started, actually.  I was a little bit negative on my returns; I should have done more.  But it is -- it is after the match, of course.  I am just going to go out and try to play a good match tomorrow, I hope.  
 

Q.  The last ball you lost was a doublefault.  Was it because you got so nervous by the end of the match that you doublefaulted? 
 
RICHARD KRAJICEK:  Well, I mean, I didn't hit that many doublefaults.  It just happens.  I mean, you know -- I don't think it was nerves, but, yeah, it is just something that happens sometimes.  It is not a nice way to end the match.  I had a few more matches points down.  I hit good shots.  I don't know.  I just -- I should have made him hit a return on the match point maybe, but I hit a doublefault.  It was a stupid way to end.  I don't know if it was nerves.  Maybe.  
 

Q.  Are you still able quite to believe what has happened to you over the last few days where you suddenly arrived at this event where you thought you had no chance? 
 
RICHARD KRAJICEK:  Yes, it has come pretty quickly, of course.  Yeah, after -- especially after Paris, I thought there was no chance and then suddenly, I have a great week last week, and then instead of going to Monte Carlo where I was supposed to go Monday, to have a few days off, I had to come here.  So that was nice.  But it was a lot of things happened, but I am happy to be here.  
 

Q.  There was one situation when Jim Courier shouted something about boring tennis.  What is your opinion about that? 
 
RICHARD KRAJICEK:  I don't know.  
 

Q.  You didn't hear it? 
 
RICHARD KRAJICEK:  Yeah, I heard it.  But if he thinks it is boring, then maybe he should get off the court and take a shower or something.  I was enjoying myself; I was trying to play the match.  But if he felt it was boring, that is his opinion.  
 

Q.  What do you think about your chances now after the match? 
 
RICHARD KRAJICEK:  Okay.  Still, it would have been better, of course, if I won today, but -- I would made it a lot easier.  I still have a chance. I don't know, I play -- I don't know who I play tomorrow, but I think -- I am able to beat both of them still, on this surface even, so I don't know.  I am just going to go out there and believe in my chances and give it 100% and see what happens.  
 

Q.  Is Jim playing like the number one player in the world right now; do you think? 
 
RICHARD KRAJICEK:  Well, I mean, it is difficult to say.  He is not playing, I think, as well as he was playing the first couple of months of the year.  But he was playing unbelievable.  I don't know if that is a measure.  A number one player, you shouldn't only look at his tennis, I           think even though he is not playing his best tennis, he pulled through a very tough match today; I think that is also a sign of a number one player, a mark of a number one player.  
 

Q.  Will you be satisfied just to show your best tennis here, or do you have your ambitions going far more? 
 
RICHARD KRAJICEK:  I mean my philosophy is when I come to a tournament I try to win it or else it is no use showing up, and what I come here to do is try to win every match I play.  Today I haven't succeeded, but I hope tomorrow and the day after tomorrow I will, and that I play, hopefully, the semifinals on Saturday, but it is far away.  I mean, I try to win every match.  I am not going to go out, "I don't care if I win or lose - I am so happy I can participate." It is great to participate, but still, I want to win.  
 

Q.  Did you think that you would ever make it to the top 10 this year, when you started off with the Australian Open where you had such bad luck there? 
 
RICHARD KRAJICEK:  It is difficult to say, of course.  I mean, you don't -- you hear people say it around you.  They are watching you.  But from my feeling, I don't know how well you have to play to be a top 10 player, but actually after the fourth month of the year I have been pretty close all the times of the top 10.  I have been 12, 13, even I played one match to go into top 10, and I lost that one, and yeah, it was of course a possibility, but then, at one stage, after Sidney, I felt my chances were pretty small to make it to the top 10 this year, but yeah, it happened and that is a nice break, of course.   
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT