U.S. OPEN
September 8, 1992
Richard Krajicek
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q.   Richard, that return that kind of sailed over your head,
you thought about hitting it; could you have hit it?  Could you
have reached it?

 RICHARD KRAJICEK:  I think so.  It was pretty strong winds against
me.  I thought it was going to go out.  And it didn't, unfortunately,
and two shit points -- two lousy points.

 Q.   Richard, when you turned around and you watched it, what
was your immediate impression or feeling when you saw it drop
in?

 RICHARD KRAJICEK:  It hurt a little bit in my heart and in my
stomach.  It was not a nice feeling when I saw it drop in, because
I had completely misread it.  It is not like it went on the line.
 It was like five inches or maybe even ten inches in.  So it was
a shame.  And the point before was even a worse volley on top
of the net.  I had to put in and I put it long.

 Q.   Were you distracted on that point by somebody yelling
out?

 RICHARD KRAJICEK:  Yeah, it that was actually not so nice.  I
should have just hit the volley.  When I heard "out,"
I just, like, relaxed and I thought it was over, and then suddenly
it wasn't out.

 Q.   Did you think the ball was out?

 RICHARD KRAJICEK:  I thought it was pretty close, so you cannot
argue, anyway, on the hardcourt, so it doesn't matter.

 Q.   Richard at 4-4 in the fifth set, you had two points --
two breakpoints where you could be serving for the match.  What
happened at that point in the match?

 RICHARD KRAJICEK:  Well, the first point he hit a good serve
on my body, I thought it was a little bit long.  I hit the return.
 I was actually waiting for the return, I didn't react with my
feet, and hit a good deep volley.  It was a shame.  Second serve,
I just went for it right around, hit the crap out of it.  I don't
think it missed by that much. So I went for it.  I cannot say
that I held back or anything.  So I cannot be angry about that,
but, yeah, I just went for it; it didn't go in.

 Q.   What was the difference with the previous match that
you played against Edberg?  

 RICHARD KRAJICEK:  I don't know.  Difference was, I think that
there were 20,000 people rooting for Edberg, I think, more than
for me.  Maybe he got a little bit more pumped.  I was serving
pretty pathetic.  I hardly got a first serve.  He was returning
pretty well.  My serve was off.

 Q.   After he missed those two backhand volleys in the second
set tiebreaker, at that point did he let you back into the match?

 RICHARD KRAJICEK:  I let him back in first, I think, in the first
set 4-3, Love-40.  He shouldn't have-- I should have made that
and should have won the first set, yeah, he missed a few shots.
 I missed a few shots also.  Both sides, we played some good points
and some bad points.  I mean, it happens.

 Q.   After playing him for so long, how would you judge how
well he is playing and if you would look ahead, do you think he
has got what it takes still to keep his title?

 RICHARD KRAJICEK:  I don't know.  Because I don't have a clue
how well I am playing, so I cannot say.  I mean, it was a close
match, and I don't know what he is going to do against the other
guys if they return better or not.  So I think if I would have
served better and I would have won my serve a little bit easier;
then I would have had a better chance to win.

 Q.   How do you feel physically, your arm, your shoulder?

 RICHARD KRAJICEK:  Everything is okay.  I feel pretty good.

 Q.   Richard, after playing for four hours and 18 minutes
and going five sets with the defending champion, do you feel like
this was-- you showed some improvement and do you feel like you
have missed a big chance?  How do you look at this?

 RICHARD KRAJICEK:  I start to hate the stadium a little bit.
Twice in a row, I lose really tough match and I had my chances,
and yeah, I just-- I blew it again, actually.  I mean, shouldn't
have gotten-- shouldn't have got to that far, I think should have
just killed him in the fifth when I had the chance 2-Love, 15-30,
yeah, then if I would have just go pushed through, a little bit
more, then you never know what happens.  But I just let him back
in a little bit in the fifth.

 Q.   Richard, you were clocking about 120 in the first serve
and 80, upper  70s in the second serve.  Was the tension getting
to you or, in fact, was your shoulder bothering you?

 RICHARD KRAJICEK:  Nothing was bothering me.  I just couldn't
get my rhythm on my serve.  I mean the wind was blowing pretty
much.  One stage, I had the sun straight in my eyes also.  It
is difficult.  It is tough conditions out there. Nobody shuts
up.  It is always noisy.  I mean, always noisy.  It is unbelievable,
and doesn't even get close to silence.  You know, except the last
game last two games first time a little bit quiet.  Normally people
walking all the time.  Not that it bothers me or anything, but
you notice it, geez, it is not normal.  It is different.  It is
fun playing here, actually.

 Q.   Would you think that all of these elements that you just
talked about, sort of conspired against you or perhaps working
to Edberg's advantage, in other words, was his Grand Slam experience
very obvious to you on the court today?

 RICHARD KRAJICEK:  No, I don't think so.  I mean, if I -- I can
go "if"  But the form was so little.  I was just out.
 It would be 5-4, it would be completely different, serving for
the match of course.  I don't think that was the difference today.
 It was-- the difference is I didn't take my chances, and we both
are a little tough time taking our chances.  He didn't take his
chances in the fourth, and you know, and the second also he had
his chances and I didn't take my chances the first set, and the
fifth.  Tough conditions, the wind was blowing, and it was just
difficult match.  Somehow he pulled it out.  I don't know how,
but it happens.

 Q.   Thank you very much.     


 End of FastScripts....            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT