WIMBLEDON
June 26, 2002
Richard Krajicek
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Questions.  
 
 
Q.  When the tournament began, you can't have expected to be the last remaining former champion?
 
RICHARD KRAJICEK:  Yeah, it's unbelievable, especially Andre was a surprise of course.  And for myself, I was just happy, yeah, to play.  I was so happy I won my first round.  Anything after it was a bonus.  So, yeah, today was a bonus. 
 
Q.  This is an important match for you in a couple ways, not just because of the quality of the opponent, but you had to go five extended sets.  Did it tell you something about your conditioning?
 
RICHARD KRAJICEK:  Well, mentally I was happy.  I was happy about my mental strength today, two sets to Love up.  I was tired actually still.  That first match somehow, all the mental stress of starting to play again.  Yeah, somehow I still had it in my legs.  The little fatigue I had helped me relax a lot.  I think that's the reason I played so well the first two sets.  But slowly I got a little more tired and I started moving less and less.  He started playing a little bit better, and a little bit smarter also I thought.  Yeah, then we had to go the five sets.  Yeah, the good thing was I toughed it out till the end.  Kept winning my service games.  Came up with some good big serves  - a couple times Love-30 in the fifth.  The only thing I already knew is physically I'm not strong enough yet. 
 
Q.  So that's a concern right now for you?
 
RICHARD KRAJICEK:  For this tournament, it's a concern.  And it's something to work on the next couple of weeks, which I'm going to work on in my holiday after Wimbledon.  I'm taking a holiday for a couple of weeks.  I took my bikes already with me.  They're already in the destination.  So, yeah, I'm going to cycle a lot in the mountains.  I like that.  My favorite kind of holidays is working out anyway, is doing sports.  Then, yeah, in the States I should be physically a hundred percent.  But at the moment, yeah, I was really struggling.  I think James Blake, yeah, didn't feel it.  Normally you shouldn't feel grass court matches.  I don't think I've ever really been tired from a grass court match. 
 
Q.  You served 30 aces.  How would you comment about it?
 
RICHARD KRAJICEK:  It's unbelievable.  One of the tough things for me.  What I expected is I couldn't rely on my serve so much because I had to take it easy.  For me it's very difficult to take it easy.  I even hit one, I missed it, but 131 miles.  The plan was basically to stick around 115 when it gets important.  I like to rely on my serve.  It really helped me today, a couple times on the Love-30.  Yeah, it's amazing I hit so many aces today.  I didn't expect that.  At the moment, the arm is good.  Let's see how it is tomorrow.  That's maybe the biggest, most important thing from today, is that mentally I toughed it out.  But also, yeah, I think if the arm comes up good tomorrow, yeah, there's for me no reason any more to doubt it or think about it.  It's healthy, passed all the tests it should have passed. 
 
Q.  Actually 174 total serves today, and 82 did not come back.  Fair enough percentage for you?
 
RICHARD KRAJICEK:  Yeah, that's acceptable (laughter).  I needed that.  
 
Q.  Do you think you can do some damage now in the tournament?
 
RICHARD KRAJICEK:  It's difficult to say.  I think Friday's an important match because, like I said, I felt my legs already from one relatively easy  -- relatively, it wasn't easy , but straight sets.  I think if I can win Friday, I can get a little more confidence, and also you have two days off, then maybe something can happen.  But at the moment, yeah, I'm just looking towards Friday.  I don't know what happened with Andre.  Actually, I thought I win two matches here, it's good, then I get a beating by Andre, I can go home happy.  Suddenly, there's maybe an outside chance I go into the second week.  Yeah, I wasn't expecting that at all.  So, yeah, it's a whole different, yeah, perspective than I had yesterday, or even this morning in mind what was going to happen.  I thought maybe I win today, and then Friday I'm going to enjoy Centre Court or Court No.  1, play completely free, see what happens, don't embarrass myself too much.  Now suddenly, yeah, it's completely different.  Now I'm looking at it this way, try to win, of course, on Friday, then have a good rest and see what happens.  Maybe I make it to the second week, then I don't know what happens.  Confidence is strange.  I think the level I play today in the first two sets was very high.  I was very satisfied with that.  So if I can keep that level for three sets, of course, then, yeah, I didn't think I was going to say this this week, but then I think I can make it difficult for a lot of guys.  I don't know if I can go all the way, of course, but I think I can even make it difficult for some higher-ranked grass court players. 
 
Q.  Which was the holiday destination?
 
RICHARD KRAJICEK:  It's Mallorca. 
 
Q.  Andre Agassi and Pete Sampras talked today that as they get older, the kind of defeats they suffered today get more and more disappointing.  Is a victory, as you get a little bit older, that much more pleasurable, that much more important, because the occasions are getting fewer?
 
RICHARD KRAJICEK:  Of course, it's a little bit different.  I had now 20 months off.  Any victory is welcome.  That pleases me.  But, yeah, it's a funny thing.  I talked to some players who are retired, coaches already.  Yeah, you always think when you're young, you see the older players, and they think they must be the most relaxed players on the tour because they've done it all.  Yeah, they just laugh a little bit, no problems.  Actually, the older you get, I think you realize the lesser chances you have to do something, to win a big event.  And I think that is what's so painful.  As I think Andre, yeah, first round he played very good, so he thinks he's in top form.  Now he expects to lose to maybe a guy like Henman or, I don't know, Federer, I don't know who else in the draw, and not, of course, against Srichaphan.  So that must be very painful for him.  I can understand that, now you feel the pressure a little bit.  Like, "How many more Wimbledons do I have in me?"  
 
Q.  There's another older guy left in your half of the draw, Wayne Arthurs.  With Agassi, Sampras, Safin out of there, what do you reckon his chances are? 
 
RICHARD KRAJICEK:  I have no idea actually.  I don't know who is left.  But he's definitely a very good grass court player, because of his serve.  I don't know how well his returns are because I've noticed myself that that's also a very important part, of course.  If you cannot make a return, you cannot break.  But, yeah, I think he's got a lot of experience, and he likes the grass.  Let's see how he does.  I mean, now maybe he senses his chance.  I don't know, who is he playing next?  
 
Q.  He plays in the bottom quarter. 
 
RICHARD KRAJICEK:  Really, to be honest, I didn't look past Agassi.  I have no idea who is in there.  The only reason I know Sampras is in the bottom half is because we played today.  But I have no idea how the draw is.  But if he's in the bottom  - I think Safin was second seed  - then, yeah, I think he can.  It's going to be a very interesting bottom half because you thought it was pretty set out, and the top half you had the feeling maybe it was open.  You had, of course, Henman and Hewitt.  But now suddenly in the bottom half, a lot of guys have lost.  It can be a surprise finalist this year.  
 
Q.  Senior British minister has announced she's writing to the All England Club, suggesting that there should be equal prize money between men and women. 
 
RICHARD KRAJICEK:  Oh, let's get to the Dutch questions.  No, no, it's okay.  Yeah, it's a great idea.  We'll see what happens, what the All England Club says.  I'm not for it, I'm not against it.  I have no opinion.  Dangerous grounds.  Dangerous grounds.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT