NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINAL: CAPITALS vs LIGHTNING
May 18, 2018
Nicklas Backstrom
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Guys have said all the post-season how relaxed this team is, laid back.  When you were out, could you see that from afar, appreciate it more maybe?
NICKLAS BACKSTROM: Yeah, I was still around the team.  It's obviously something we've been having all playoffs, I think.  It's an important thing, too.  I think in a seven-game series, even if you win or lose, you need to be able to look ahead for the next game, have that mentality.  When you're not playing, I think it's important to just relax, on the road to have fun together, enjoy our company.
I think that's a good thing we've been doing.  Hopefully we can keep it going.
Q. How did you feel out there last night and then this morning when you got up?  Brooks said you looked like the same old Nik.
NICKLAS BACKSTROM: First of all, thanks Brooks.
But, no, I felt all right.  Felt pretty good.  I mean, obviously you know when you haven't played in a week or so.  Felt great to be back out there.  Just the playoff atmosphere is great.
Q. This team has shown a great ability to shake things off, not have two bad periods in a row.  You keep rising to that occasion.  Do you feel you're using that and building off that at this time of year maybe more so than in the past?
NICKLAS BACKSTROM: Yeah, I think so.  I mean, now it's going to be even more important.  We lost two in a row.  Coming back here again, it's going to be even more important.  Got to show some character here, I think.  Really get the next one.
Q. To be at this stage for the first time in your career, you've been through some of those shortcomings in years past, what is this like for you?
NICKLAS BACKSTROM: It's great.  I mean, I feel like a lot of us in this team has been here long enough, been waiting for this opportunity.  I mean, it's great.  It's a best-out-of-three series for the Stanley Cup Final.  It's a great motivator right there.
Q. When you let a two-game lead slip away, it's easy to let doubts creep into your head.  How do you wipe the slate clean mentally?
NICKLAS BACKSTROM: I think you got to take some positives out of the last game.  We thought we played better than the results.  I mean, you just got to keep building.  It's a new game tomorrow, new opportunity.  You just got to reset.
If you keep thinking about what happened in the past, maybe it gets stuck in your head, like you said.  It's a new day tomorrow, new game.  We're all excited about that.
Q. Did you do enough to disrupt Vasilevskiy last night?
NICKLAS BACKSTROM: Maybe not.  It looked like we had some good chances.  I think overall, if you look at the first two games, got a little more in front of the net.  Maybe shot it a little more, too.
Q. Dmitry's first goal came with traffic in front, right?
NICKLAS BACKSTROM: Yeah, yeah, exactly.  He's not going to let in goals when he sees the puck.
Q. Have you ever seen anything like this, where a series four games in the home team hasn't won yet?
NICKLAS BACKSTROM: No, I haven't seen it.  That's kind of crazy if you think about it.  Hopefully it stays that way until Sunday (laughter).
Q. It's the road ice advantage.
NICKLAS BACKSTROM: Maybe it is.  I don't have any good theory behind it.  Yeah, I don't know, maybe just let loose and roll.
Q. For Ovi getting past the second round was probably a huge relief.  Did you feel that way yourself, getting over that hurdle?  Was there a sense of relief for you?
NICKLAS BACKSTROM: Yeah, absolutely.  I'm not going to lie here.  That was a huge relief.  I was so happy after we won there in Pittsburgh.  At the same time, I mean, I think all of us have bigger goals than this.  It was nice to get over that hurdle, but at the same time we're not satisfied.  We don't want to sit back and just be here.  We actually want to win this series, go to the Finals.  That's our goal.
Yeah, I mean, it's a great opportunity for us now.
Q. The camera showed you embracing when you came off.  What was that moment like?
NICKLAS BACKSTROM: Yeah, it was just special, I think.  I think me, him and Beast have been here the longest.  It was just a special moment.  We've been through a lot together.  I feel like it was just a look in our eyes, like, finally, it only took us 11 years (laughter).
Q. A couple of world class one-timers on either side of the power play.  How crucial is it to fix up that part of the game?
NICKLAS BACKSTROM: If you look at the series, we have to fix.  We have to be better.  Need to have some power up front there.  We need to fix it, talk about it, watch videos, and hopefully we can correct it for tomorrow.  I think it's important for us to stay out of the box and play five-on-five.  I think that's what is going to win this series.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT