NHL ALL-STAR WEEKEND
January 25, 2008
Nicklas Backstrom
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Coming off that victory last night, what are you attributing to the success of this team in the last month or so?   
 NICKLAS BACKSTROM:  I think the coach has been a good help for us.  And he has been changing the system a little bit.  Little more aggressive in the system.  And the whole team is working together.  That is the biggest key, I think.   
 I think it's very important that if you're going to be a winning team, you have to work together.  That's a big point.   
  
  Q.  You're a great playmaker, the first rookie to have four assists in back-to-back games.  What an accomplishment when you think about guys like Gretzky and Lemieux and all they've done in the last 20 years or so.  You're a play-making guy.  When Michael Nylander went down, did you feel more pressure on your shoulders to step up and be that guy to replace Michael Nylander just a little bit?   
 NICKLAS BACKSTROM:  I think when he was hurt, I mean, I know that I was going to play more and get more ice time.  I mean, play more.  I don't feel any pressure on myself.  I'm just going to be myself and play my game and do my best out here.  So I don't feel any pressure.  Of course it's going to be there, but I don't think about it.   
  
  Q.  Many people felt, Nick, that you could have come over and played in the NHL last season.  You played over in Sweden in the Swedish Elite League again and led your team in scoring.  What about staying that extra year in the Swedish league?  What did that mean to your development?   
 NICKLAS BACKSTROM:  I think it was a good for me.  I've just played in the Swedish league one year.  And I think to stay home one more extra year and to play World Junior and the World Championships, I think it was good for me because my home team (Indiscernible).   
  
  Q.  You've got a team owner who is very personable; George McPhee is a great guy as well.  What has the adjustment been like for you, coming overseas, coming to North America, dealing not only with what happens on the ice, but what happens off the ice in terms of the living arrangements and adjustments to food and things like that?   
 NICKLAS BACKSTROM:  I can say that the organization is unbelievable.  They've helped me with everything.  I want to thank them for my first season here for everything.  They have been good at helping me.   
  
  Q.  One guy we haven't talked about here that I know has been great through your development as well is Alexander Ovechkin.  He's really turned into a team leader.  What has he helped you with?  You guys are inseparable with the Washington Capitals.   
 NICKLAS BACKSTROM:  Yeah, I mean we're the same age.  He'll help me a lot.  We are friends and we're talking a lot.  I mean, he was in the same situation a few years ago, but he was a little bit better.  I mean, he's good, and he's helped me a lot.  Talking a lot about his first year and asking him.  He's a good help for me.   
  
  Q.  Can we assume when you guys go out to dinner on a week night, that Alexander Ovechkin, he's the guy that's buying.  He's not making you buy anymore, is he?   
 NICKLAS BACKSTROM:  I don't know, actually.  But I hope he's going to pay.   
  
  Q.  You got to make sure he's buying you filet mignon or something.  Well, best of luck, nick.  Enjoy the weekend.  It's going to be a lot of fun.  Right now you guys are battling for the Southeast Division lead.  And perhaps you might find yourselves back in the playoffs there.  So best of luck with the Washington Capitals.   
 NICKLAS BACKSTROM:  Thank you so much.  Appreciate it.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT