WIMBLEDON
June 22, 2005
David Sherwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  David Sherwood for you.  
 
 
Q.  Any comments on the match overall?
 
DAVID SHERWOOD:  Obviously, I'm a bit disappointed at the minute.  But I'll no doubt learn a lot from it.  Once I get time to reflect on it, I'll know what to improve and what I can do better for next time.  
 
Q.  You didn't seem to quite have the rhythm that you had in the first round match. 
 
DAVID SHERWOOD:  No, I think I struggled to settle early on.  There were times when I felt comfortable.  But, obviously, he's a great player, so he's not going to let me feel comfortable.  I think that was just it really.  
 
Q.  Was the heat a factor? 
 
DAVID SHERWOOD:  Not really.  I didn't really struggle today with the heat or anything like that.  It was just finding my rhythm and getting settled down really.  That was the main problem today.  
 
Q.  You didn't seem able to hit the ball.  You were hitting it so well and so hard on Monday. 
 
DAVID SHERWOOD:  Yeah, no, it's just all really settling down.  When you're under that much pressure, I think it's a lot tougher to do that, so...  
 
Q.  There appeared to be a couple of disputed calls from you.  You had a word with the umpire.  Were you happy?
 
DAVID SHERWOOD:  Yeah, no, I thought it was fine again.  But, obviously, you're going to think it a little bit differently on a few calls.  But, yeah, I didn't really have that many problems.  
 
Q.  You seemed a bit distracted in the very first game.  The ball boy was running about in between serves.  Do you remember that? 
 
DAVID SHERWOOD:  Yeah, it was a breakpoint I think on my second serve.  Yeah, it doesn't help.  That's really got nothing to do with the result.  It was just about settling and I didn't do it today.  
 
Q.  Did you feel nervous beforehand? 
 
DAVID SHERWOOD:  Yeah, I think like I said before, before the first round, you're always going to be a little bit nervous.  I didn't feel as bad as I did before my first one.  But, yeah, I definitely felt nervous.  
 
Q.  Has that changed your goals for the rest of the year? 
 
DAVID SHERWOOD:  No, I don't think so.  Obviously, it helps.  I've got a few extra ranking points I can go in and push on and hopefully get into bigger and stronger tournaments.  But I think playing for the next couple of months is going to stay the same.  
 
Q.  I understand you're very close friends with Andy Murray.  Will there be a certain amount of banter from him over this?  Will you kind of look at each other across the court to see who went further this year?
 
DAVID SHERWOOD:  Not really.  There was a little bit of banter in the physio's room last night.  It was just harmless.  No doubt we'll get a little bit of banter going a bit later when we're getting ready for our doubles.  
 
Q.  Any private bets between the two of you about who goes further in the tournament? 
 
DAVID SHERWOOD:  No, not over who goes further.  We had a little bet, me, Andy and Alex at Davis Cup.  But it wasn't about who goes further at Wimbledon or anything like that.  
 
Q.  May I ask what it was about?
 
DAVID SHERWOOD:  It was just a little bet.  I think actually Greg brought it up.  It was I think who makes top hundred first.  It was only a small bet anyway.  
 
Q.  Do you think Lopez would have a chance against Safin or Philippoussis based on what you saw today?
 
DAVID SHERWOOD:  Yeah, I think obviously he's got a good record here.  He's a good grass court player.  Those two are very good players as well, so I think it will be a good match.  Hopefully after today, Lopez can go out there and win it.  
 
Q.  What will your next tournament be?
 
DAVID SHERWOOD:  I'll going to play a challenger next week -- sorry, the week after Wimbledon in Nottingham. 
 
Q.  Do you think there will be any sort of problem going into somewhere like that where the atmosphere is going to be very different to what it's been like here this week?
 
DAVID SHERWOOD:  No, I don't think so.  I think that's generally what it's like for tournaments I play at anyway.  This has been an exceptional week or two weeks.  I don't think there will be a problem going into it.  
 
Q.  Are you in the doubles with Andy?
 
DAVID SHERWOOD:  Yeah, we're playing fourth round today. 
 
Q.  Is the top hundred a realistic target for you now?
 
DAVID SHERWOOD:  Yeah, I think the three people that I mentioned, and a lot more, it's a realistic target for a lot of us now.  If we go out and carry on getting results, then I don't think it's that far away.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT