WIMBLEDON
June 20, 2005
David Sherwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  David Sherwood.  
 
 
Q.  According to the you're the first Yorkshireman to win a match here since Roger Taylor. 
 
DAVID SHERWOOD:  Is that right?  
 
Q.  Is that how you interpret it? 
 
DAVID SHERWOOD:  I would think so.  I don't really know of many Yorkshire players that have played.  I know Gary.  
 
Q.  Gary lost to Forget. 
 
DAVID SHERWOOD:  Jonny obviously last year with his five-setter against Karol Beck.  
 
Q.  How did it go?  Looking at the score, it went very well for you. 
 
DAVID SHERWOOD:  Yeah, no, I felt comfortable all week really.  Went out there and just carried it on really, just hitting the ball well.  I served well.  I started off serving well.  A little bit of nerves towards the end, my serve went.  Apart from that I felt really comfortable.  
 
Q.  You had a fair bit of injury and sickness lately. 
 
DAVID SHERWOOD:  Yeah, I had tonsillitis last week -- or two weeks ago, sorry.  It was always a question mark of my fitness.  But I think three sets today helped.  If it had gone a bit further, I don't really know if I would have struggled or what.  
 
Q.  How badly were you laid up with that?
 
DAVID SHERWOOD:  Pretty badly.  I didn't eat for four days.  I lost close to a stone.  It was tough.  I had Nottingham last week.  I've had a week's training in Sheffield.  Been down here since Friday.  Preparation's been all right really apart from that.  
 
Q.  You came under pressure in that third set on your serve, got out of it with a couple of big ones when you needed them most, didn't you really? 
 
DAVID SHERWOOD:  Yeah, no, my first serve was starting to fade a bit in the third set.  The last three service games, he had a lot of chances, which he didn't really have in the first and second set.  That's probably the main thing that I've got to go away and work on now for Wednesday.  
 
Q.  Were you a bit worried about having to go into an extra set at that stage, were you? 
 
DAVID SHERWOOD:  I don't know if I was worried.  I felt fine at the time.  But obviously with everything that's happened, I thought it might be an issue.  Luckily it wasn't.  
 
Q.  What sort of speed did you serve at? 
 
DAVID SHERWOOD:  I'm not sure, to be honest.  Yeah, I've never had it tested or anything like that.  I think -- there's a lot more in it, I think.  
 
Q.  A useful weapon, though? 
 
DAVID SHERWOOD:  Yeah, definitely, especially on the courts here.  Used it well.  Playing a left-hander as well, so I like to slide it out wide to his backhand.  
 
Q.  Are you still with Gary Henderson? 
 
DAVID SHERWOOD:  Yeah, still with Gary, yes, and Jason.  They're still here with me.  
 
Q.  From the club?
 
DAVID SHERWOOD:  Yes. 
 
Q.  The Davis Cup win was obviously a real high.  How does this compare?  It was an individual win. 
 
DAVID SHERWOOD:  Yeah, I think, obviously being at Wimbledon, it's always going to be special.  But the Davis Cup, because it was sort of the first time I've been in that sort of spotlight I think will always be a special one.  But this is equal, if not better.  
 
Q.  Do you feel like you made a leap after that win? 
 
DAVID SHERWOOD:  I felt confident going into matches - well, more confident going into matches.  I went to France for two weeks after that and did reasonably well.  Unfortunately, I got injured after that.  But, yeah, I think it obviously helped with my confidence.  
 
Q.  Seeing what Andrew has done as well, you must fancy a bit of that? 
 
DAVID SHERWOOD:  Yeah, definitely, definitely.  We've been talking about after what he did at Queen's and how well he's been doing, so yeah. 
 
Q.  What was the injury?
 
DAVID SHERWOOD:  I tore a stomach muscle in France.  
 
Q.  What is your record at Wimbledon? 
 
DAVID SHERWOOD:  This is my first singles match.  I played doubles four times and lost four, so...  
 
Q.  Under any extra pressure being British here this week? 
 
DAVID SHERWOOD:  No, I don't think so.  I think obviously being a wildcard entry, which is very helpful, I think there's more pressure on the other guys to beat us comfortably, which really I think they should be doing.  
 
Q.  Do you feel pressure to justify it? 
 
DAVID SHERWOOD:  Yeah, obviously you want to try that little bit harder and justify the All England Club giving you the wildcard.  But every match is tough here.  If that doesn't happen, then...  
 
Q.  I assume you wouldn't have been fit enough to have played the wildcard playoff then? 
 
DAVID SHERWOOD:  I think -- well, I practiced for like two days before Nottingham, which was just before the playoffs.  
 
Q.  The wildcard playoffs were sort of through Queen's, from the Wednesday to the Friday of Queen's. 
 
DAVID SHERWOOD:  Queen's, well, yeah, that's when I was laid up, so...  
 
Q.  We've all read about the more fiery side of your character.  Is that something you've worked on? 
 
DAVID SHERWOOD:  I think, yeah, I've just sort of toned everything down, stopped doing things that you can't really do to be a professional tennis player.  Yeah, I think I've worked on it.  
 
Q.  I think you had one minor discussion with the umpire there today.  Do you have to remind yourself when you're out there because you're so competitive? 
 
DAVID SHERWOOD:  Yeah, I think sometimes.  I think today everything sort of went reasonably well.  There was no real reason to be angry or anything like that.  I don't really think about it any more.  I think I've just grown up a lot.  It just comes naturally now.  
 
Q.  Was that change in your temperament through something you've done by yourself or have other people helped? 
 
DAVID SHERWOOD:  Yeah, I mean obviously people around me and coaches and my family are telling me things that I should do and shouldn't do.  I think that does help.  I think, like I said, it's just all part of growing up.  
 
Q.  What is your relationship with the LTA at the moment? 
 
DAVID SHERWOOD:  It's good.  It's never really ever been bad.  
 
Q.  Are you back in the fold, so to speak? 
 
DAVID SHERWOOD:  Well, obviously with the wildcard they've given me here and the help they've been giving me, before and since Davis Cup, I think, yeah, it's a good relationship.  
 
Q.  Still in Sheffield? 
 
DAVID SHERWOOD:  Still based in Sheffield, but they are helping me out a little bit.  
 
Q.  Were your mom and day here today? 
 
DAVID SHERWOOD:  Yeah.  They were down there watching and stuff. 
 
Q.  Can you clarify what your mom did as an athlete?
 
DAVID SHERWOOD:  She won the silver in the long jump in Mexico in '68.  
 
Q.  Wednesday fan?
 
DAVID SHERWOOD:  Yes. 
 
Q.  Quite a good summer so far?
 
DAVID SHERWOOD:  Yes.  I didn't get to see it.  I got to see it on TV because it was Surbiton.  But I watched it on TV.  
 
Q.  You were quite close to being a professional footballer? 
 
DAVID SHERWOOD:  Really only school, but that's as far as it got because tennis came after that.  
 
Q.  What position?
 
DAVID SHERWOOD:  I was left wing, sort of center forward.  
 
Q.  Obviously no regrets now?
 
DAVID SHERWOOD:  No, not at all after a day like today...  
 
Q.  You may play a seed in the second round, Lopez.  Any thoughts on that at this stage? 
 
DAVID SHERWOOD:  Not really, no.  It's not really sunk in what I've just done out there.  I think I'll go away, get a massage and stuff, and start preparing for that tomorrow.  
 
Q.  Do you think you'll be in better shape by Wednesday in view of the illness?
 
DAVID SHERWOOD:  Yeah, I think today will have helped because I'll be used to playing again and going out there and giving it everything.  So I think, yeah, it's obviously going to help.  
 
Q.  Have you recovered much of the weight loss? 
 
DAVID SHERWOOD:  Yeah.  Well, like I said, I had like a week and a half.  I've put quite a bit of weight on and worked hard in the gym with my dad.  My fitness is not that bad.  It could be better.  
 
Q.  What will you do the next day or so to take your mind off things and relax? 
 
DAVID SHERWOOD:  I'm not really sure, to be honest with you.  I've never been in this situation before this (smiling).  Like I said, I'll probably go and get a massage and get some good food in me tonight and come and have a little practice tomorrow before Wednesday. 
 
Q.  Are you staying locally?
 
DAVID SHERWOOD:  I'm staying in a Travel Inn in South Wimbledon.  
 
Q.  Have you booked another night or two? 
 
DAVID SHERWOOD:  We booked until Wednesday, so...  
 
Q.  Jamie talked quite a bit about his Uzbekistan experience at Queen's.  How horrific for you was it? 
 
DAVID SHERWOOD:  Yeah, I think obviously it was bad for everyone involved.  But luckily we weren't that close to it or anything like that.  But it was -- I think it was just more the not knowing, not knowing what was happening, what was going on.  
 
Q.  But you could hear guns going off?
 
DAVID SHERWOOD:  Yeah, the Friday.  On the Friday, sort of when Jonny and Danny were playing their doubles, it was only two kilometers away.  That was a little bit scary.  I was inside there.  
 
Q.  This was in the Travel Inn? 
 
DAVID SHERWOOD:  (Smiling).  
 
Q.  You obviously enjoy playing on grass.  How much of a leveler is it when you play the clay court guys? 
 
DAVID SHERWOOD:  Yeah, I think definitely, like today showed.  It was obviously a leveler because he's 54 in the world and I'm 260.  I don't think anybody was expecting a result like that.  But on grass, if you do play a clay courter, anything can happen.  
 
Q.  As you say, growing up a bit, has that paid dividends? 
 
DAVID SHERWOOD:  I think so.  And obviously things coaches have told me this week, "Just go out there and play my game, don't be sort of overawed by the experience and the day."  I think that was probably the main thing that helped.  
 
Q.  Andrew listens to music before he goes on the court.  Are you a believer in that? 
 
DAVID SHERWOOD:  Well, I like to listen to music any time, anyway.  I'll be sitting in the changing rooms any time of the day listening. 
 
Q.  Any special music you use? 
 
DAVID SHERWOOD:  Not really, just anything.  
 
Q.  Who are you into?  Who is your favorite band? 
 
DAVID SHERWOOD:  I'm into sort of like rap and R&B and stuff like that.  Just anyone.  
 
Q.  Doggy Dog? 
 
DAVID SHERWOOD:  Yeah, Snoop (smiling).  
 
Q.  You don't plug it into your ears when you walk on court and pump it up?
 
DAVID SHERWOOD:  I did at Davis Cup, but since then I've not really done it.  Just beforehand and afterwards really.  
 
Q.  How do you think Andrew will get on tomorrow? 
 
DAVID SHERWOOD:  Well, obviously with what happened at Queen's, I think he's had a tough time, like I did with the tonsillitis.  I think he's playing well.  He's a great player.  Hopefully he can go out there and get a win.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT