GOLDEN STATE WARRIORS MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 28, 2015
Marreese Speights
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What did you do over the course of the off-season, and just talk about your goals personally?  I know you have team goals, but what do you want to do for yourself over the course of the next season?  
MARREESE SPEIGHTS: Well, we had a short season so I started doing boxing and training and doing those things this summer to try and get me prepared for this year, and my goal is just to get a year older and better than I was last year.   
 Q.  I was hoping you could describe one of these boxing workouts that you've gone through, and I guess who is it that you kind of work out with and how did you get started with it?  
MARREESE SPEIGHTS: Well, I got a close friend, a guy named Malcolm Peck who I train with, and I train at a gym with Silky Wilky, a professional boxer, so I was just going to him.  I know Tim Duncan do stuff like that, so I just wanted to try something different this summer and prepare me for this year.   
 Q.  What do you think when you hear all the talk about the Spurs, the Cavs could have beaten you guys if they were healthy, the Spurs got LaMarcus.  What do you think when you hear that?  
MARREESE SPEIGHTS: I think when Steph and Iguodala held the trophy up, we was the champions, so that's I really can focus on.  That's all really it is right now; we're champs so they've got to come for us.  We don't got no pressure, nobody picking us to win this year, so we've got confidence already about that.   
 Q.  There's been conversation with expanding your range and maybe bringing in a three-point shot a little bit more.  Is that something you've been working on and is it something we should expect this season?  
MARREESE SPEIGHTS: No, I've been working on it, but it's all about confidence and all about the opportunity.  This training camp hopefully I get that going, and we'll see how the preseason goes.  If not, go back to the money shot.   
 Q.  I was just curious, you were talking about opportunity and confidence.  What do you make right now, just kind of where we're at with Coach and I guess what he's done so far for the culture of this team?  
MARREESE SPEIGHTS: Yeah, Coach changed this organization, changed the winning.  Mark Jackson started it, but Coach came in, a good mindset, a good coach, friendly, and restarted everybody.  Hopefully this year it'll be the same, and we'll be a year older and we'll be better than we was last year.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT