ROSE BOWL GAME: IOWA VS STANFORD
December 28, 2015
Mike Bloomgren
Kevin Hogan
Joshua Garnett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
An Interview With:   
COACH MIKE BLOOMGREN   
KEVIN HOGAN   
JOSHUA GARNETT   
 Q.  Coach, so much has been made of the players-only meeting after the first week.  What was the coaches-only meeting like after the Northwestern game?  
COACH BLOOMGREN: I think that's a great question.  I think the nice thing is we returned everybody from our offensive staff from the year before, and that's rare in this day and age of college football.  But everybody from our young guys on, so we sat in the room and we evaluated what we could have done better as coaches and what we could have done better as players.   
And we didn't panic.  That is probably the biggest thing I can tell you.  We looked around the room and said this is what we need to fix.  We're going to address this, and we're going to stay the course.  We know this works.  We believe in this, so we're going to play better and coach better than we did the week before.   
 Q.  What in your estimation has made Kevin [Hogan] so effective throughout his career and especially this year?  
COACH BLOOMGREN: Gosh, can I just defer that question to him?  He makes everything else right in our offense.  What makes him so effective is the way he attacks the game plan.  I think a lot of people talk about Kevin as a game manager, and I think that's such an insult, because I don't think they know what all he does on a week-to-week basis, starting with Monday when we introduce the protections and he drives the ship in everything that we do, to every run check that we put on him at the line of scrimmage, and where he's going to get us in the perfect play and not run plays into bad looks.   
The other thing is we trust Kevin with everything in our offense to go to the line of scrimmage and run it no huddle.  He's been phenomenal in the two-minute drives.  We've had opportunities this year.  I can't wait for the SOS guy to go back and evaluate those and see how many of those led to points and actually touchdowns before the half, because those have been phenomenal.   
But the thing I would point to most is his leadership.  And this year, more than any other year, how he's demanded more from his teammates.  So his preparation, his execution, and his leadership, I guess, are the three things that have been unbelievable from Kevin this year.   
 Q.  Kevin, to follow that up, a lot has been made of this offense.  What does it mean to truly have mastery of this whole system?  What's that entail and what's it like being the guy who has that?  
KEVIN HOGAN: I mean, it's what's necessary to run this offense.  There are so many moving parts that go into it.  There is a lot of preparation, a lot of studying on your own.  It's what gets the play to be successful.  You have to go up there and know that you're setting the offense in the right play.   
So you don't want to let your teammates down.  So you put that on yourself to put the team in the best possible position for success, and our game plans allow that.  We have great schemes, and we feel that we're comfortable, whether we call two or three plays at the line or if they bring something exotic, we know that we can get to a check that will get us to a successful play.   
 Q.  Josh, the offensive line, what you guys do and what Iowa does, it's very atypical nowadays.  I want to know what the room is like.  What's this offensive line group like knowing that this offense is built around what you guys do versus just built around skill position players?  
JOSHUA GARNETT: Oh, yeah.  I mean, like Hogan was saying, there is a mastery that has become involved with our team especially on the offensive line, we do a lot of things, lot of techniques.  But at the end of the day we have a lot of tough, smart guys.  It's been a testament to Stanford football and the guys we recruited and who Coach Bloomgren has recruited.  You go after guys who are smart and physical.  And we have a group of those guys in the same room that can come together and help each other out and really work as a collective unit.  It's really fun.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT