OLYMPIC GAMES RIO 2016: GOLF
August 20, 2016
Victoria Lovelady
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. What a great week, just summarise the experience. How amazing was it?  
VICTORIA LOVELADY: I enjoyed from the moment I stepped into Rio till right now. I made a commitment to myself that I was going to enjoy every second of it, every shot of it. My golf, I wasn't too happy about my scores. But today, I was able to play well enough where I can leave, you know, the golf side with a smile on my face.   
But the whole experience was amazing. Arriving here, going to the village, going to the Opening Ceremony, seeing my dad in the Opening Ceremony by coincidence, crying with him, singing the anthem, walking through the village with all the athletes, seeing Bolt, taking a selfie with Bolt, seeing Nadal; hey, Nadal, what's up. Everything was amazing.  
The course was really challenging. Too bad I just got the gist of it by the end. But it was amazing, also, seeing the guys winning the first Gold Medal in so many years in history. So I feel so fulfilled, so thankful that I was able to live this time in history in my country.   
   
 Q. Did you birdie the last? There was a great roar and so many people cheering for you. How emotional was that?  
VICTORIA LOVELADY: My gosh, on the first tee, on my first tee, I was really emotional. I was really touched by everything and I had to control myself to not start bawling out of joy. I was able to control after three holes. But it was amazing. Today I had quite a big crowd following me, showing a lot of love and support to the bad shots and to the good shots.   
It was definitely a dream come true to be able to play this event in my country, with my people, being cheered by them and enjoy this moment with my family, especially my husband that was on the bag. It was definitely a dream came true.  
   
 Q. And what about the legacy then, going forward, what do you think this will do for raising the profile of golf here?  
VICTORIA LOVELADY: Well, for sure, I know that a lot of people that never had the contact with golf, had the first contact for like the first time here. Even the crowd, I was like, man, I don't recognise these people. Usually you see like golf people in golf. I was really amazed that we had all kinds of people coming in.   
Now with the Olympic course becoming public, people can just go and try it out; now they don't have to be a member at a golf course and can just walk in. I really hope the organizations keep up with the course and keep up with their promise of keeping this accessible with a low price for people to have access to golf, and that visionaries can really have the responsibility to take this golf course to the next level and golf in Brazil to the next level.  
Me as an athlete, I will try to contribute as much as I can. Now being an Olympian, we'll see how it's going to be. But LET, we're coming.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT