BIG EAST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 5, 2017
Kurt Godlevske
Tori Schickel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Coach, an opening statement, please?   
KURT GODLEVSKE: Well, we've got the utmost respect for Creighton and Jim Flannery for his program and how they play and how they go about their business.  We knew coming in that we didn't have to play perfect but we had to play well.  We couldn't make mistakes because they're a team that doesn't.   
I thought our kids were fantastic in the first half.  I thought our kids throughout the entire game gave great effort.  There is a lot for us to take and learn from this experience, and that's what we want to do.  We want to continue to build and continue to grow as a team.  I thought we did a lot of really good things.   
THE MODERATOR: A note about Butler, their second straight year which they've moved on to the quarterfinals in the Big East tournament.  Questions for Tori.   
 Q.  Tori, what was the key to such a fast start for you guys?  
TORI SCHICKEL: Coach has always said we have to get out to a fast start those first five minutes and kind of set the pace.  And we wanted to be really physical in those first five minutes to just set the tone and relay to them that we're here, we're playing hard, and we're going to set the pace in the first couple minutes.  Then hopefully relay that through the whole rest of the game.   
 Q.  What did they do so well in the third quarter that made them tough to stop?  
TORI SCHICKEL: They really hit shots and moved the ball really well.  They were the aggressor.  They came up and did what we want to do in the first five minutes.  They push us off the block, off the three-point line and made passes hard for us.  That really hurt us.  Instead of us doing that in the first half, they did the same thing to us in the third quarter.   
 Q.  Tori, early on they were doubling you and kind of leaving Alexa and leaving Taylor.  It seemed they shot them out of doubling you.  I guess, what happened to the offense when they started playing more straight up and playing you one-on-one on the post?  Did that throw you guys off a little bit?  
TORI SCHICKEL: You know, we've kind of been working with that all season, going back and forth between the double team and whether they're not double teaming.  It's something I have to get better at realizing is when they are double teaming and when they haven't aren't, and when I should throw the ball out.   
It makes things more difficult for me is when they're not double teaming sometimes because it's a recognition thing, and when they're just kind of helping in the middle, but they're not really double teaming.  No one else is really open, so I have to get better at making my move quicker and being stronger and being able to go up through the contact.  50 did a nice job of setting straight up and not fouling.   
 Q.  When they get going from the perimeter at all five positions, how much does that compromise what you're able to do defensively, specifically down low, and how much does that open up the basket for them when they start hitting those shots from the outside of the four and five position?  
TORI SCHICKEL: Right.  I think when there is a big girl and I can stay closer into the basket, and I don't have to go out as far, but when they went with that smaller lineup, I had to stay out on faber.  With 17 points, I think she knocked down basically everything tonight, so I knew I had to stay out on her, and I couldn't help as much.  I could point help on the drive or on screen rolls.  I just wasn't there as much as I could have been when they had their bigger players in the game.   
 Q.  Coach, it seemed like in the first half you were really keeping them from getting a lot of looks inside.  You're holding them to some long jumpers.  In the third quarter, was it a matter of ball movement by them or what did you see that shifted things?  
KURT GODLEVSKE: I think a lot had to do with their kid's mentality.  We were able to push them off the three-point line and try to follow our game plan and be aggressive off-the-ball situations, and our kids were really good at it in the first half, and forcing them into short shot clock situations.  That's where we wanted to get to.  We wanted to hopefully contain ball penetration better in those situations.   
But I think their kids' mentality was completely different in the second half.  That's Jim.  He does a wonderful job, and he knew what he had to do to be able to advance in this tournament and his kids really turned it on:  That's the type of kid they have.  They're experienced and have that winning mentality, and that's something we aspire for.   
 Q.  What is the next step for your program to get to that mentality of winning consistently?  
KURT GODLEVSKE: We've got to get some depth, first of all.  That's kind of hurt us all year, so we've got to take this off-season and get our kids individually better in certain areas so we can get more minutes out of kids.  Then it's really got to be earned.  That's kind of the Butler way.  You've got to put in your time and go about your business in the off-season preparing yourself and in the preseason practices about how you're going to do that.  And that's really kind of how we are.  That's how we've got to be, and that's what I talked to them about in the locker room after the game.   
 Q.  I know it's only a matter of two games, but what does this say about your group the way you won yesterday?  And in that first half today, you were forming a nice story there.  
KURT GODLEVSKE: I think it's our growth, and it's about what the kids want to do and want to be.  It goes back to what I said yesterday.  This isn't the end for us.  First time I talked to a group where I had no seniors and really only two juniors.  So they can make this into whatever they want to.   
 Q.  You went to the half court trap there once Creighton got a little bit of a lead.  What about their ability to kind of bring the trap and then readout of it made it difficult to turn them over and get back into the game?  
KURT GODLEVSKE: I think it's their size.  They've got a lot of length in almost all the positions and they're able to throw over the top in a lot of those situations.  I think the kids he has also do a great job of reading situations and want the basketball and cut into open areas.  So it's really a combination of those two things.  They've got basketball savvy kids.   
 Q.  What did you see from the sidelines as far as what your offense was looking for when they started double teaming Tori in the post and kind of playing everybody straight up once you guys shot them out of the double team early in the game?  
KURT GODLEVSKE: They still went back to it a little bit.  And Alexa had some shots and we knew going into it, based off of our film with the kids last night that it was going to take a perimeter effort from our kids to make shots and shoot shots.  Tori had a lot of good looks and opportunities to kind of make things difficult again for them.  She struggled a little bit from the field.  But that's also a credit to Rollerson.  She's not an easy kid to move around and get around inside.  That's a great experience for Tori because that's only going to help her in years to come.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT