DUBAI OPEN
December 20, 2014
Gaganjeet Bhullar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   So you've been pretty consistent, 69, 69, 69?
    GAGANJEET BHULLAR:   Sort of, but today I hit the ball really well, better than the last two days.   Gave myself a lot of birdie opportunities.   I didn't hole anything coming down the last few holes.   I think I must have hit about 15 or 16 greens in regulation today. 
    I was quite happy, if I'm looking from the ball‑striking point of view, but I really do need to work on my putting.   I think putting is going to be the winning key for tomorrow's round.

Q.   It's quite a bunched leaderboard, isn't it. 
    GAGANJEET BHULLAR:   Yeah, it could be anybody's game.   But I would say it was a huge advantage for the guys who played in the morning, because there was no wind.   Even now there's less wind but there was less spike marks when those guys played, and it was a proper set up for the guys who teed off before ten o'clock. 
    I think it's going to be quite interesting.   A lot of the experienced guys are on the top of the leaderboard.   Fans will definitely expect some good golf tomorrow.

Q.   You've been up there all three days.   You must be confident for the final day. 
    GAGANJEET BHULLAR:   Absolutely.   I'm here to win.   Nobody cares if you finish second or third or whichever.   I'm just here to win and I'm just going to go out there and give my hundred per cent tomorrow.

Q.   What's the winning number in your mind?
    GAGANJEET BHULLAR:   It's very, very difficult to say, because it all depends what kind of wind is going to be there tomorrow.   If it's like this, definitely somebody is going to go low.   Then I would think the winning score is going to be 15, 16 or 17.   But again, it all depends on the wind, the wind conditions tomorrow morning.

Q.   Does this course suit your game, do you think? 
    GAGANJEET BHULLAR:   It does.   It has a few long holes which definitely gives me a winning edge over the other players, but on the same hand side, greens are very treacherous.   It demands a lot of‑‑ I would say you have to shape your shot in the air.   It definitely does.
    As I said, I've been hitting the ball really good the whole day.   I gave myself a lot of birdie opportunities and that's the plan for tomorrow. 

Q.   Dubai is a bit of a home for some of the Indian boys. 
    GAGANJEET BHULLAR:   That is definitely on the back of my mind and that is a source of inspiration for me.   Jeev has been playing here for a long, long time.   Shiv Kapur won here two years ago on a Challenge Tour event.   So definitely some Indian is due to win.   It would be nice if I go and win tomorrow. 

Q.   Do you feel walking around the course that you have a local backing? 
    GAGANJEET BHULLAR:   It does, yeah.   My mom and dad are here.   I have a lot of family, friends here.   They came out yesterday and today on the back nine.   So, of course, it feels home away from home, and definitely that will boost me. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT