CIMB CLASSIC
October 22, 2013
Gaganjeet Bhullar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   We have Gaganjeet Bhullar here first in the media center.   Can you talk first about your experience playing in the CIMB Classic last year, and your thoughts coming into this week?   
GAGANJEET BHULLAR:   This is my second appearance in the CIMB Open.   All I remember is I had a top 10 finish last year, and I think, I'm not really sure, but I think I was the highest ranked Asian, and that gave me a lot of confidence for the remaining half of the season.   
I mean, I've always got good memories of playing with some of the top players of the world, especially coming to this week I've had a good run so far, like third.   So goals are definitely to be in the top, and this is definitely one of my favorite golf courses on the Asian Tour.   I've played well here, and I just want to try to give my hundred percent this week.   
THE MODERATOR:   It's a big week for players such as yourself.   Money counts, winner gets a spot in The Masters tournament.   What's this mean for players such as yourself?   
GAGANJEET BHULLAR:   It just means that we know we have achieved everything in life.   I guess PGA TOUR is the destination for all of the professional golfers of this world, and if I win this week or if I get an opportunity to be in contention, nothing like that.   Because even if I play well this week and next week in the HSBC it will give me some status on the PGA TOUR.   I guess that's how the doors open, and at the end of the day, that's my goal.   That's my destination.  
   
 Q.   How much of a difference are the Asian players (Indiscernible)?  
GAGANJEET BHULLAR:   You know, golf is new in Asia.   This is exactly what golf was in America about 50 years ago.   I guess the biggest thing is depth.   We don't have so many good players of that caliber on the Asian Tour.   I mean, the Top 10, the top 15, 20 players, they can compete against some of the best players in the world.   But after that, we are still in a progress of producing new winners, new champions.   I guess this was a thing back in Europe, in America a couple of years ago.   But I think it's changing.   Every year somebody from the Asian Tour is moving on to the European Tour then slowly graduating and moving on to the PGA TOUR.   
So I guess the way we guys get this opportunity to play in some of the big tournaments, you know, and it really boosts our confidence and it really teaches us how to play and how to move on to the next level.  
   
 Q.   Any goals this week since the money counts on the Asian Order of Merit?   
GAGANJEET BHULLAR:   I'm pretty sure this week will change pretty much anything.   Kiradech is pretty far ahead of all of us.   But every penny counts on Tour.   The winner's check is around $1 million.   And if you win this thing, apart from winning the Order of Merit, there are other perks to enjoy.   Definitely I'm going to keep my head stable to be in contention on Sunday.  
   
 Q.   With the event being $7 million, one of the richest on the Asian Tour, does your preparation and your focus change from the other weeks of the year?   
GAGANJEET BHULLAR:   I don't think so.   I guess at the end of the day it's 72 holes Tour play event.   It's probably easier because in the other tournaments you have to compete against 150 players.   Here there will only be 70.   So it is definitely one to enjoy four days of golf.   I've got a good pairing on Thursday and Friday, I've been paired up with Sergio Garcia and Rickie Fowler.   So obviously I think it's going to be fun and interesting first two days.  
   
 Q.   Have you played with those guys before?   
GAGANJEET BHULLAR:   Never.   I've never played with those guys.   I've played with a few other guys on the PGA TOUR, but never got the opportunity to play with these two guys.  
   
 Q.   Do you think because you're used to playing here and the Asian players are used to the temperature, do you think this is going to be an advantage because some of the American players are not used to this type of weather?  
GAGANJEET BHULLAR:   I'm pretty sure this will help some of the Asian top players because this is where we guys started playing golf.   And we're pretty familiar with the conditions and the weather temperature when we get rain delays, and we know how to cope with everything.   I think this is definitely an added benefit to our experience.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT