WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 3, 2012
Gaganjeet Bhullar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Tell me about your 63.   
    GAGANJEET BHULLAR:   Well, it was a smooth 63.   It's been a long time I've shot low 60.   Yeah, came here with a lot of positivity in my game.   Hit the ball really well today.   I made nine birdies and nine pars today, probably the best I've ever done in my life.   
    I have shot 63 in previous tournaments, but that was with a few eagles and a few more birdies.   But yeah, today was a flawless round, bogey‑free, and I think that was the goal to stay away from bogey.   
   
 Q.   Given the company you're playing here, it must be extra special?  
    GAGANJEET BHULLAR:   Yeah, definitely.   You know, I have shot 62 once in an Asian Tour tournament, but to shoot a low number in such a big tournament, it means a lot.   And yeah, it will definitely help me in my future tournaments.   
    I think this rhythm and this momentum I'm going to carry it on for the next few weeks and yeah, that's the goal, and yeah, I'm going to try and improve the scores.  
   
 Q.   You said on Wednesday, you've had a great year but you're going to take each tournament each shot at a time, is it a case of just keep doing that and keep telling yourself to do it?   
    GAGANJEET BHULLAR:   Yeah, that is kind of the secret it was today.   I just told myself to stick to the routine and the process and just kept on doing that all day long, and when I walked out of the 18th green and realised I shot 9‑under, so that was the trick.   Yeah, that's the goal.   Hopefully going to do that again and again.   
   
 Q.   And the last?   
    GAGANJEET BHULLAR:   Trust me, when I hit my tee shot, I thought it was going to end up in the bunker.   And luckily it pitched in the bunker, just rolled out of the rough, and trust me, that was a difficult shot.   I thought it might be a 5 on the card on the last but the 6‑iron I hit out of the rough was a big shot, probably the best all day.   
    That putt, I could see it left‑to‑right, and luckily it broke.   
   
 Q.   Scoring is low, you're going to have a late start tomorrow because you're right in this tournament, do you need to shoot something like this tomorrow do you think?   
    GAGANJEET BHULLAR:   Yeah, definitely.   You know, golf is a crazy game.   You never know what's going to happen next.   Yeah, I saw a lot of low numbers today.   Brandt Snedeker shot 60 today.   I thought mine was the best.   
    Yeah, there is a lot of low scoring this week.   A lot of golf left, and it's a WGC.   Guys are good, guys are playing from all over the world.   Expecting a lot of good golf for Sunday afternoon.   
   
 Q.   Give us your thoughts after a low round like this?  
    GAGANJEET BHULLAR:   Trust me, it was a great round.   I had 16 greens in regulation today, nine birdies, nine pars.   We kind of expect this kind of round when you play good.   
    Could have been a little better, because I missed four putts inside ten feet today.   I was hitting the ball really, really good and really close.   I think that was the goal, and just told myself to stick to the routine and process.   
    I hit 13 out of 13 fairways today.   I think that is one of the goals for me this week, because I had been struggling a bit with my driving all season, but coming to the second half of the season, I really worked on my striking.   The driving has gone off a lot of improvement.  
   
 Q.   So what made the difference today compared to the two previous days?  
    GAGANJEET BHULLAR:   I think striking.   I hit 16 greens in regulation and most of them like really close within ten, 15 feet.   And had a great start today, I missed greens in regulation on the first, just left of the green and chipped in for eagle.   That was a good start.   
    The third hole, the par5, I hit a long drive, probably around 360 yards.   Hit a 6‑iron and then missed that eagle putt and then birdied the next and birdied the 7th, 8th and 9th.   I think that was a birdie stretch which I needed.   
    Yeah, every time you expect this birdie stretch, and that really helps your momentum and gives you a kick start for the back nine.  
   
 Q.   I don't know where you are, but Brandt Snedeker came close to a 59 today.   To shoot a 60 here is remarkable.   What is it that we see this course and think, where are the chances sometimes and yet there's so many of them being made.   
    GAGANJEET BHULLAR:   It's funny at times.   I was walking on the 18th fairway, hit a great second out of the rough on 18 and I thought, you know, might be the lowest round of the day and suddenly you see Brandt Snedeker starting from 1‑under and finishing 13‑under.   
    I don't know what's wrong with human beings these days, guys are going crazy and improving so many.   I guess everybody is practising ten hours a day on the driving range; it has to be something like that, because to one extent, you can't take so much help from equipment and technique.   It has to be your hard work.   
    For me, definitely it is paying off, but, yeah, if you look at Brandt Snedeker, I've got to work really hard to improve my scoring tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Well, there has been a nice improvement in your game down the years, as well.   Lovely to see you playing in a competition of this calibre.   
    GAGANJEET BHULLAR:   Oh, definitely.   I would say I think the secret is playing more and more tournaments globally.   Asian Tour is a Tour that I started playing golf and then took up affiliate membership on The European Tour.   
    I think you play all over the world, that gives you a lot of confidence, especially when you come and play in these big tournaments, that confidence helps you to shoot low numbers.  
   
 Q.   And helps you deal with different situations, doesn't it, really?  
    GAGANJEET BHULLAR:   Definitely, I think this is one thing which I've learned from, from players like Jeev Milkha Singh and Arjun Atwal.   These guys have played week‑in, week‑out and that is one thing which I'm learning.   Now that thing is kind of paying me back and I've realised how important it is to play week‑in, week‑out and I think that is the secret.   
   
 Q.   And your position on this leaderboard it, makes it all worthwhile, even with the hassles with the visa getting here?  
    GAGANJEET BHULLAR:   This is my second attempt here.   I played the first time in 2009 and had the same issue with the visa, but I was lucky enough to play the practise round.   Yeah, this time is was a little worse.   
    You know, I was striking the ball good before coming here and that was the goal.   I said, you know, just keep on focusing on my ball striking and the day my putts fall in, I'll shoot a low number and that's exactly what happened.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT