CIMB CLASSIC
October 28, 2012
Gaganjeet Bhullar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Well played, nice way to finish the round.   You must be happy with the week.   
GAGANJEET BHULLAR:   Well, the way I was striking the ball, I thought I could go really low, but that's golf.   You've got to accept what comes.   Definitely this is a great week for me.   All four days I played with PGA TOUR pros.   It's a very good opportunity for me to learn this week, and I think this experience will definitely help in my coming years.  
   
 Q.   At the start of the day obviously you knew that you needed a lot of birdies early on to make a move, but you were just missing them.   
GAGANJEET BHULLAR:   Trust me, I was very unlucky in the first few holes.   I just got on the toughest spot on the golf course on the 1st and 2nd hole, and then that second shot on the 3rd, which I pulled, probably the worst shot of the week, that's an easy hole that I could have easily made birdie.   But that's fine, it's golf.   Every week you learn by making more mistakes, and now the only good positive thing I'm going to take from this week is my ball‑striking and putting, and a lot of big weeks coming up, and hopefully this experience and confidence will help coming up in the next few weeks.  
   
 Q.   Garrigus who you played with on Monday had good things to say about you.   When you hear things like that from PGA TOUR players, what does that do to you?  
GAGANJEET BHULLAR:   Definitely it inspires you.   Robert Garrigus, he's a star on the PGA TOUR.   I've seen him so many times playing well on television, and it was good to pair up with him.   He's a cool man, he's a really nice gentleman, and probably the best person to pair up with.   
You know, it really gives you a sense of achievement that you have played well, and it's basically a reward for your hard work.   Yeah, he gave me a lot of positive feedback.   He said your game is ready for the PGA TOUR, it's just a matter of time.   I'm going to heed that advice, and looking forward to moving to the next level.  
   
 Q.   I think this is your ninth week in a row playing.   How have you maintained this high level of playing?  
GAGANJEET BHULLAR:   Well, I've got three big weeks coming up.   Trust me, I think it is all mental.   Mentally I'm fit, physically I'm fit.   At times you do get exhausted, especially when you play in this part of the world, because the weather is really bad.   You sweat a lot.   But I guess that's golf.   We have been brought up in this kind of weather, and this is my sixth year on Tour, so obviously I don't feel that difficult right now.   But until the time I'm out on the PGA TOUR I'm going to give it my best shot to break inside the top 50 in the world.   I guess for that I need to play week in and week out.  
   
 Q.   One more big week next week in China.   You must be looking forward to that?  
GAGANJEET BHULLAR:   Absolutely.   I played WGC HSBC in '09.   Trust me, that is a premier event happening in this part of the world, and it's a great opportunity for we guys to take our game to the next level, to prove to the rest of the world what Asian golf is all about.   Yeah, excited about HSBC.   I believe it's going to be on a different golf course this year.   I've never played here, but I've been to Mission Hills a few times, and excited to see how the golf course looks.   
   
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT