CIMB CLASSIC
October 25, 2012
Gaganjeet Bhullar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Tell us about the round today. 
GAGANJEET BHULLAR:   You know, this is my first visit to CIMB.   I have been wanting to play in this event.   It is my pleasure to be in the part of the field where Tiger Woods is playing.   It was a lovely experience playing today.   I played with a lovely gentleman, Robert Garrigus.   He's won on the PGA TOUR, and trust me, I've never met a guy who's such a gentle look on his face, and we just enjoyed our 18 holes.   He shot a good round today, and I also played good today. 
I had a good start to the week, and looking forward to the next three days. 

Q.   With the magnitude of the event, big players, you don't seem intimidated by that pairing obviously. 
GAGANJEET BHULLAR:   Yeah, definitely you feel blessed, you feel very lucky to be part of the field.   Yeah, I totally agree, the way you said, all these PGA TOUR guys, they have made a name for themselves, and it is our pleasure to go out with these guys and to play well and to play with these guys.   I think Asian Tour is moving ahead.   We are going in a positive direction.   Every year more tournaments are coming to this part of the world, and this is a sign of improvement.

Q.   Would you rather be paired with Tiger instead? 
GAGANJEET BHULLAR:   Well, you really can't say.   It's a funny game, you never know.   You might be up for Tiger tomorrow or the day after, on Sunday.   I think, yeah, one should get ready and try and do exactly what he's been doing over the years. 

Q.   Hypothetically if you are paired with him, how would you feel?   Pressure?   I know you're a fan, as well.   Will that fan take over you? 
GAGANJEET BHULLAR:   It's a tough feeling.   It's really tough to say.   I just think it all depends what I feel at that moment because at times you are in the zone and you really don't realize who you play with.   It's just that you finish your last hole and you realize I shot a good number shot and I played with a legend.   You never know.   Yeah, I think I should get mentally ready if I get paired up with him.

Q.   Do you feel like playing with top players raises your game?
GAGANJEET BHULLAR:   Definitely.   I think that is the next level for Asian Tour players.   I've got this and I've got HSBC next week, then Singapore and Hong Kong.   A lot of hopes, full of confidence, and yeah, game just kind of takes you where you belong, and especially the opportunity we guys are getting now, it's mind‑blowing, and I think it's a great opportunity for us to showcase our game and take it to the next level.

Q.   You've got two wins in a season, Thaworn has got three.   Any thoughts on that? 
GAGANJEET BHULLAR:   You know, Thaworn is a legend.   He's been winning since '88, and I was born in '88, so there is a lot of difference between me and Thaworn.   Definitely we all guys try and keep up with what he's been doing.   He's 46 and another four years to go, and I think he's going to go on the Senior Tour.   Every year we think he's going to slow down, but it's not the case.   He's been winning more and more the years he's been going close to 50.   I think he's a source of inspiration for all the youngsters, and he's definitely a true legend and he's a legend for all the Asian Tour upcoming players. 

Q.   Obviously the highlight was the 17th? 
GAGANJEET BHULLAR:   17th, yeah, man.   I cracked my driver.   I hit a 6‑iron from 189 yards.   That was a lovely 6‑iron.   Wind was holding me up, to about 15 feet, and trust me, that was a killer putt.   That's probably the best putt of this season.   That was definitely the feeling which gave me of the Masters because I never expected it's going to break so much from the right, and first when I hit it I thought I might be missing from the right.   But it just died out in the hole.   Yeah, that was definitely the highlight of today's round.

Q.   Did you go out with a sense of I've got to attack the pins and have a chance at birdies?
GAGANJEET BHULLAR:   You know, trust me, this is my first year playing the CIMB, and I thought the course would be easy, but it's not that easy.   I came this morning and I was crossing onto the golf course, and suddenly I saw two guys 4‑under after four holes, and I was like, it doesn't really look like it's that easy.   So your mental state goes up really high and you start expecting a lot of birdies.   I think that happened with me.   I just had a good start, just had a slow and steady start.   I was 3‑under after 8 and made one unforced error on No.9, but I guess that's all part of the game.   Now really looking forward to the remaining three days of golf.

Q.   You spoke a little bit about PGA TOUR players being the better players, so to speak.   But after a day like this where you're kind of matching Robert blow for blow, does it put you guys on a level playing field?
GAGANJEET BHULLAR:   Oh, yeah, definitely.   I think these are the only few weeks where we get to play with these guys, and if we play well with these guys and probably the same number, it really motivates us, and I think it is very important for Asian Tour players that somebody should go up and make it interesting.   You never know this week, it could be an Asian Tour player's week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT