DUBAI OPEN
December 19, 2014
Gaganjeet Bhullar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Nice strong finish there with two birdies in the last three holes.   
    GAGANJEET BHULLAR:   Yeah, it was a great finish.   I gave myself a lot of opportunities coming down the stretch.   But really lucky on No.7, I holed a bunker shot.   8 was a good eagle try.   Quite happy with birdie.   You know, the finishing last hole I gave myself a good opportunity.   I was about seven, eight feet for a birdie.   But anyways, today was a consistent round.   Hit a lot of greens in regulation.   Gave myself a lot of opportunities to go deeper, but still two more rounds to go.  
   
 Q.   After the injuries that you had and just coming back recently, do you feel like you're finding your groove again on the golf course?  
    GAGANJEET BHULLAR:   Absolutely.   You know, Indonesia was the first week where I started, and it feels really weird to play the golf course from such a long length because I had lost about 20, 25 yards with my driver.   Last week was better, and I think this week it's coming back.   I can feel that my distance is coming‑‑ it's pretty close to what I normally hit.   You know, it's really a great feeling to be inside the ropes and again competing with these guys.   I really missed this part for about two and a half, three months.  
   
 Q.   And this is a course which kind of like rewards long hitting, as well, doesn't it?  
    GAGANJEET BHULLAR:   It does.   You know, there are a few bunkers which you need to fly, and most of the bunkers are at 270, 280, 290, so I was‑‑ in fact, yesterday and today I was quite capable of flying those traps.   Yeah, really looking forward for the weekend, and the leaderboard looks really interesting.  
   
 Q.   A familiar name, as well, with you?  
    GAGANJEET BHULLAR:   Yes, Arjun.   I've never played with him.   Of course I've followed him and he's a good friend of mine, but it would be great if I got paired up with him tomorrow.   It's very nice for Indian golf, and he's one of the legends.   He has really given a lot to Indian golf, a lot of fame name, and it would be really good playing with him tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Speak about the Asian Tour being in Dubai for the first time.   How big is it for you guys?  
    GAGANJEET BHULLAR:   It is.   We come here to play the European Tour event, and this was the only thing which we guys were missing.   I mean, look at the golf course, look at the condition.   It's just as good as any of the I would say European Tour or PGA Tour events.   I would say this was definitely much needed, and I would like to thank the sponsors for putting this event for we guys.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT