EURASIA CUP PRESENTED BY DRB-HICOM
March 26, 2014
Gaganjeet Bhullar
Anirban Lahiri
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   And as I asked you yesterday also, now that the event is less than 24 hours, maybe even less than that, it's probably the biggest of all the team events that you've played together so far. 
GAGANJEET BHULLAR:   Well, you know, obviously you play for your country, and then you play for Asia.   These are probably two biggest things you can do as a professional golfer.
In this format, this is the biggest event for Asia, at least for the moment, and it's fantastic that we have the opportunity of having the Indian flag stamped out there tomorrow when we go out.

Q.   Have you played with either of the two guys you're going up against tomorrow? 
ANIRBAN LAHIRI:   Yes, I've played with a lot of the Europeans and I think tomorrow is going to be a really tough match.   Both guys have won a few times on Tour but if you look on our side, we are hungry to go out there and just to make a name for our country and continent.   I wouldn't be surprised if we win this trophy. 

Q.   Tell us about the dressing room atmosphere. 
GAGANJEET BHULLAR:   I think as the week has progressed, things have gotten more and more and more relaxed.   Guys have gotten to know each other.   People are pulling each other's legs and there are some jokes and it's the kind of atmosphere that you need.   Everybody obviously is here to give their best and win this trophy and everybody knows that, but it's nice that when we are here, it's good we can take our minds off and really relax. 

Q.   So many different languages within the same dressing room. 
ANIRBAN LAHIRI:   It's quite cool.   The guys play on our tour and every week we see different faces, different Nationals but for the first time many guys are paired up as a team and the guys are gelling with each other really well.

Q.   So the two of you being put together was a no‑brainer? 
GAGANJEET BHULLAR:   To be honest, it was quite a difficult decision.
ANIRBAN LAHIRI:   We played two practice rounds and put our minds together and then came up with a few other options.   But Captain TJ came up with this one and we are comfortable playing with each other.   Of course we have been playing together from junior days, and if you look at the other four games, everybody knows each other's game on the other team. 

Q.   Is TJ the new nickname for the captain? 
GAGANJEET BHULLAR:   Well, this has been on Tour for the last four or five years.   I think that's what most people call him in Europe.   I wouldn't expect most Europeans to say Thongchai Jaidee very fluently. 
But yeah, when you keep it casual and you keep it informal it helps to communicate, and I think that's how things are in the locker room.   Everybody is really communicating well, and we are really getting to know each other's ideas and strategies, and now it's time to execute. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT