ABU DHABI HSBC GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 18, 2014
Gaganjeet Bhullar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Any round without a bogey is a good one, how good is that on this golf course in those conditions? 
GAGANJEET BHULLAR:   Absolutely, that feels really nice.   Ever since I've arrived here, I've been striking the ball really good.   I knew that I could go low, and thankfully today was one of my lucky days.   I had a lot of good breaks, putted really well and gave myself a lot of opportunities of making birdies and I guess at the end of the day I'm quite happy with 66.

Q.   You'll be out in contention with some of the best players in the world of golf; how do you feel about that?
GAGANJEET BHULLAR:   It's a great feeling.   Last year I got paired up with a lot of the big names in the world and it was quite good. You get to learn a lot of new stuff about yourself, about the game, and I think it will be one of those enjoyable Sundays.

Q.   You won a month ago in Indonesia, does that give you the belief that you can go out tomorrow and beat these guys and win this tournament?
GAGANJEET BHULLAR:   Absolutely, at the end of the day it is another 72‑hole stroke‑play event, and I think that if I have done five times in Asia, why can't I do it on The European Tour. 

Q.   What are your thoughts on moving through the field and being in this tidy position now? 
GAGANJEET BHULLAR:   I played really well today.   I hit about maybe 16 greens in regulation.   I really hit the ball good off the tee and really enjoyed hitting a lot of greens in regulation.   I made two or three good par saves and I think that kept me going.   Apart from that, was hitting it quite close to the flag, giving myself a lot of opportunities, and putted really well on the front nine I would say.

Q.   Have you had a sense that the game is in good shape and continuing well on the back end of last year? 
GAGANJEET BHULLAR:   Yeah, I've been playing really good.   I've been striking the ball really good for the last, I would say, two years, and I've enjoyed a lot of success on The Asian Tour, and I think right now it's time to focus on The European Tour.   Feels really good to be a full member on The European Tour and I'm going to try to give my hundred percent tomorrow.

Q.   Does that mean we will see a lot more of you when you're touring Europe and trying your hand in cold conditions?
GAGANJEET BHULLAR:   I guess that I have to get used to that conditions.   Obviously for a player, it's a big move from taking your game from the Asian Tour to The European Tour and slowly moving on to the PGA TOUR and I think I'm ready for the challenge.   I've played enough on European soil and I've played quite a few European Tour events the last few years, and just working hard and hoping for the best to happen.

Q.   Charting your progress, it's been a nice upward curve, hasn't it? 
GAGANJEET BHULLAR:   Yeah, as I said, I enjoyed a bit of success on 2012 and 2013 on the Asian Tour, and now my focus has changed and I'm working hard to put myself in the winner's category on this tour.

Q.   Are you getting a lot of support around this track in Abu Dhabi? 
GAGANJEET BHULLAR:   Yeah, I think today, I saw a lot of familiar faces on the back nine.   There were quite a few Indian supporters walking and following me.   It kind of really motivates me and hope to see these guys coming out in a big number tomorrow.

Q.   You say familiar faces, there are familiar golfing faces at the top of that board; are you getting used to that company, as well? 
GAGANJEET BHULLAR:   I need to get used to it.   There is no other way out.   Last year I got paired up with a lot of world‑class names and now I think it's time for me to upgrade my game and get mentally used to playing with these guys. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT