NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PISTONS v HEAT
June 6, 2005
Stan Van Gundy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
COACH STAN VAN GUNDY:  Yes, we expect him to play.  I don't know how he feels.  And I'm not going to comment on any treatment he may or may not have got.  Anybody interested in anything else?  (Laughter). 
 
Q.  Have you come up with a Knute Rockne type speech?
 
COACH STAN VAN GUNDY:  I said this morning and I'll stick to it, if I've got anybody in there that needs a motivational speech for Game 7, they don't belong in that locker room.  
 
Q.  I know you don't want to get involved in medical lore, or are you a doctor, but do you have to talk to the medical officials to say, if he takes this treatment, he can do this, and if he takes that treatment, he can do that?  In other words, do you have to have a working knowledge of what percent and what limitations you have as you draw your game plan?
 
COACH STAN VAN GUNDY:  No.  I'm not involved in that at all.  Any time we have a guy out there who is going to play, or I do, I treat him like he's 100% until, you know, if I see otherwise in a game, obviously, then I've got to adjust but I don't go into the game expecting the worst; I go in expecting the best.  
 
Q.  Is it important to have Dwyane out there just for a sense of calm and normalcy and relaxation for the whole team?
 
COACH STAN VAN GUNDY:  It's important to have Dwyane out there because he's a great player and we're in Game 7 against a great team.  You need to be as whole as you can possibly be.  
 
Q.  As with muscle injuries, you try to keep it warm without letting it get cold or whatever or sit on the bench for too long, do you keep him out, assuming he can play at a deep level, do you keep him out for shorter stints, did you put him back in after one or two minutes or does that change at all, the substitution pattern?
 
COACH STAN VAN GUNDY:  I don't know if it would be possible for me to give Dwyane less rest than I do.  The guy usually gets about enough time to get a drink of water. I don't think I'll tighten him up by sitting him on the bench for too long.  The only way that could become a concern obviously and I don't know if it is a concern, but if that is a problem, obviously foul trouble or something like that may become more of a concern but it won't be because I'm resting him too much, that I can assure you.  
 
Q.  How is Shaq doing after these four games in a short time period? 
 
COACH STAN VAN GUNDY:  I mean, I think he's actually, you know, looks stronger as we've gone on.  So I would hope that that trend would continue tonight.  
 
Q.  You said you have Knute Rockne speeches, but will you call on anybody, Pat Riley talk to the team or will Shaq address them, is there anything else somebody else will do?
 
COACH STAN VAN GUNDY:  That stuff is so overblown in my mind, it's unbelievable.  I mean what I say.  There are times during the year where I think you've got to light a fire under your team maybe, but Game 7 of the Conference Finals?  I mean, if there's somebody sitting in there, I mean it sincerely, it's not a laughing matter, if there's somebody in there that needs to be pumped up more by what I say, they have got absolutely no right being in there.  There's at least one ex-player in here, he knows what I'm talking about.  Come on, it's Game 7 for God's sake.  I'm going to fire somebody up?  I don't think so. Nothing other than speeches and injuries, I'll tell you what.  
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT