NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PISTONS v HEAT
May 30, 2005
Stan Van Gundy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. We want to get to this discussion about this employee who was hit with a beer last night.  Can you discuss any of that or what you know about that?
 
COACH STAN VAN GUNDY:  I know nothing about it. 
 
Q.  Are you at all interested in finding out more or are you just letting other people --
 
COACH STAN VAN GUNDY:  It's not my job, yeah. 
 
Q.  You did make some remarks about Detroit fans in the last week.  Are you willing to discuss any more about that?
 
COACH STAN VAN GUNDY:  No, I said what I said.  I thought a great point was made in the paper by one of the columnists that I'm talking about one percent of the people, and the person was right.  I apologize for painting it as an entire group.  I do think there's problems in here, but it's certainly not with the majority or even close.  99 percent of the people, probably even more than that, are good fans here to watch the game, and I apologize that I painted everybody with the same brush.  That's it.  
 
Q.  The theme in the other camp seems to be that the problems that the Pistons are having are their problems, having nothing to do with what the Heat is doing to them?
 
COACH STAN VAN GUNDY:  That's fine.  I mean, it doesn't matter either way.  You know, whatever -- their approach is their approach, our approach is our approach.  It's not about what people say or anything else; it's about trying to win games.  That's it.  
 
Q.  I thought you made it very clear that you didn't need another 40-point game from Dwyane to continue to be successful in this series.  Other guys doing other things, is that one of the more satisfying aspects from last night?
 
COACH STAN VAN GUNDY:  Yeah, we got another great performance from Dwyane.  We wouldn't have won without it, but we made a big run late in the game without him.  Every win is equally satisfying to me.  It doesn't matter how it comes or who does more of the damage or anything like that.  It's a team game, and you're out there trying to do everything you can to win it.  We've got a lot of guys contributing in a lot of different ways.  I was happy with it. 
 
Q.  Rasual kind of stepped into another one of those roles that you've talked about before of guys not knowing when it's their time but stepping up when they --
 
COACH STAN VAN GUNDY:  Yeah, and you know, we've been questioned a lot or I've been questioned a lot in this series about why he's playing, and so he made me look good last night. 
 
Q.  Given the Pistons' track record from coming behind in series, you've got to expect their best game coming out. 
 
COACH STAN VAN GUNDY:  No question.  We've said to our guys, look, they were down 2-1 in the last series and on the road and won three in a row.  I mean, we have tremendous respect for the Pistons.  I think the problems we've had in this series have been a lot of their doing.  I mean, if they don't have the respect for us to think we're having anything to do with winning games, that's fine, but we've got great respect for them, and we know that we will have to bring our best game in here tomorrow night. 
 
Q.  Does last night's win become less meaningful if you don't win Game 4, as well?
 
COACH STAN VAN GUNDY:  Well, no win becomes less meaningful.  You've got to get to four, so every win you get is meaningful.  You don't have control of the series until you get the four, but no, last night's win was win number two, very meaningful.  Now we've got to try to get win number three. 
 
Q.  Is there a specific adjustment that you need to set in place for Game 4?
 
COACH STAN VAN GUNDY:  Well, there's some things I think that we need to do based on some of the things that they did that hurt us last night, some things that we need to look at and adjust, but I'm sure, as I said before, the last game, that they'll make some more adjustments, too.  I mean, you're talking about a great team and a great coach, and as I said before the last game, I don't know what they're going to do, but I know this, they'll do it well and we need to be ready for whatever could happen.  
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT