WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC POOL C: TORONTO
March 11, 2009
Francisco Rodriguez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. There was a lot of emotion that ninth inning. What was it like for you out there?  
 FRANCISCO RODRIGUEZ: It was fun. The adrenaline was, you know, 100 percent. And, you know, you just got to go out there and be prepared for that. Honestly, we need to win this game. Because we know what happened a couple days ago, we get beat up. And then tonight's game, it was nice.  
  
  Q. In the sense, did it feel like an audition, the first appearance against Mets fans, too? Did that enter your mind at all, that this was an opportunity for you to show them what you can do?  
 FRANCISCO RODRIGUEZ: Well, I don't know what to tell you. You know, they have seen me in the past, and, you know, I was not thinking of that. I was trying to go out there tonight and trying for myself and get it done.   
 Of course, for some reason, I feel like right now I'm at another level. It's different. I don't know why, but, you know, it's totally different. Now that's going to be the next step, you know, when I go back to New York, and when I step out there and see the field, I know it's going to be probably the same, or, you know, a lot better. The way that I felt tonight was a lot of energy.  
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 FRANCISCO RODRIGUEZ: Honestly, I was focused on getting that guy out. I wasn't thinking about what's going to happen. I was just trying to go after them, trying to get ahead of them, trying to put them away. I was thinking to go, you know, thinking about things (indiscernible).  
  
  Q. You said another level, I mean, how does this compare to 2002 with the Angels?  
 FRANCISCO RODRIGUEZ: Well, don't get me wrong, when I wear the Angels' shirt, I played with a lot of pride. But for some reason, when you play for your country, I'm not saying that I give more, you know, I just -- you know, it just feel like more adrenaline. It feel like more pressure, you know. No question about it.   
 So tonight, I feel pretty good. And just, you know, don't get me wrong, every time I wear different jersey, I take that pride. But today it was something very special.  
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 FRANCISCO RODRIGUEZ: This year, I feel I helped. This last year, I don't have, you know, the ankle problem like I did last year. I feel totally different. I feel 100 percent healthy.   
 It's not the velocity. It's not because I was playing against the U.S., you know. I think I worked so hard through winter and trying early in the spring to get where I need to be. Once again, I feel 100 percent healthy. And now I have to go out there with the Mets and keep doing what I'm doing.  
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 FRANCISCO RODRIGUEZ: I cannot change that at all. I know I'm going to see him, you know, 19 games. I am 100 percent sure, it's not going to be the first time I face him, so sometimes the rivalry, sometimes it's fun to have. But you don't take that personally. I leave that to the fans. They pay me to get him out. And he gets paid to try to get a base hit.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT