INDIANA UNIVERSITY BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 27, 2016
Thomas Bryant
Robert Johnson
Curtis Jones
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Mississippi Valley State - 52, Indiana - 85
Q. Thomas  when they closed the 33-28 late in the first half, you guys went on a big run, that happened early, also in the second half, but what changed at that point?
THOMAS BRYANT: What really changed was that we got our energy back.  The energy died a little bit with us.  And we started looking at the pressure that they were giving us and just started to realize what we could really attack at instead of just going out there like chickens with our heads cut off.  So we looked at the press, we got it together, we got our groove back, and got the energy back.
Q. Robert, the goal for this game was obviously to win.  But what did you need to improve on after what happened at Fort Wayne?
ROBERT JOHNSON: I think it was just a total improvement in a lot of areas.  As far as defense, that's always what we want to come out and set the tone.  I think we did a good job of doing that early.  And just keeping that type of mindset throughout the whole game.  I think that that would be key for us as the season progresses.
Q. What was it like to see O.G. back out there again after being sick for the last game?
ROBERT JOHNSON: I think it was good to see him back out there.  He's one of those guys that when he's locked in, he makes the game easier for everybody.  With the way he defends, rebounds, how versatile he is on offense, so it was good that he was able to get back out there.
Q. How does the game change when James isn't on the court?
ROBERT JOHNSON: The game doesn't change really that much.  Everybody knows their job out there on the court.  And it's hard to not have James out there, but we have key things that we go to when James isn't.  So, nothing really changes, everybody else just steps up.
Q. Can you talk about what it's like to play four games in eight days?
THOMAS BRYANT: Just continue to come out, work, be locked in every day, and that would be it.
Q. Thomas, what does Zach bring to the table?  What are some of the things that he does to make the game easier for you guys?
THOMAS BRYANT: Zach brings so much talent and energy to the team.  Just doing the dirty work as well.  A guy like that, we have to cher -- I cherish that.  When you got a guy that will do the dirty work, give up points, won't give up possession on defense, and he's all in for the team.  That means a lot to us.
Q. Thomas, the opportunity you have on Wednesday night.  I know you just got done with this game, but how comfortable are you guys with being ready for that game?
THOMAS BRYANT: We're just staying poised right now.  We're not looking ahead too far.  We know we have, we know what we have up ahead and what's against us.  But we're going to look at the film, get better from tonight's game, and keep moving forward.
Q. What was the purpose of the last practice that coach, after the lost the other night, said there was some things that he needed to get corrected.  What did you guys focus on in the past couple days?
ROBERT JOHNSON: I think one of the main things is that we did a good job of leading up into today was holding each other more accountable for certain things, especially when we're practicing live and in the game, I think that's something that we can continue to improve on, just when we see certain areas where we can improve, not waiting for the coaches to tell us, but us as a players out there seeing it and recognizing it and helping each other get better out there.  That's something that we got better at.
Q. Did you do anything to work on the communications?  Was there anything you can actually do in practice to work on just fixing things like communication?
ROBERT JOHNSON: That's something we do daily.  If you come to one of our practices, any drill that we do is going to be some aspect of communication constantly throughout the drill.  So that's something that we try to build on daily.
Q. To sort of follow-up, are those two things linked in a way, the idea of holding each other accountable and communicating better in your mind?
ROBERT JOHNSON: I think so.  That's the only way you really can hold each other accountable is if you communicate and let each other know what they can do better, what they can continue to do to help the team, and the things of that nature.
Q. Robert, can you talk about Curtis and how comfortable he is so quickly here?
ROBERT JOHNSON: Yeah, I think that Curtis has a great confidence about himself, and playing here as a freshman you're going to have to play, especially as a guard.  And I think that with that confidence and the smarts he brings to the game I think it makes it easier for everyone.
Q. Curtis, coach was talking about how the guys at Hunt Prep are like family there.  Do you still in touch with any of them?
CURTIS JONES: Yeah, I stay in contact with them a lot.  Me and Thomas was down there last summer playing with them.  Watched some of the games when it's on TV.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT