AL DIVISION SERIES: YANKEES v ATHLETICS
October 8, 2000
Eric Chavez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  How are you feeling after the trip last night?  How do you think you guys will respond being the younger team? 

ERIC CHAVEZ:  Yeah, we're a little bit tired.  I mean, I know am.  Feeling a little bit sick, too.  I know there's a little something going around the team, too.  A couple guys are passing it to each other.  I didn't wake up this morning feeling too good.  But it's wearing off.  I'm sure pretty close to game time, everything's going to go away and we're going to be ready to go. 

Q.  Anything in your baseball past - wouldn't come close to this - but an elimination game you played in at any level?  What would be the closest thing?

ERIC CHAVEZ:  No, not really.  This is pretty much the biggest game of my career.  The only other thing I could think of, us going to Seattle knowing we had to win three of four, if not, our future was looking pretty slim.  That's pretty much the biggest comparison, you know, going into Seattle with our backs at the wall.

Q.  How do you like the feeling?

ERIC CHAVEZ:  We like our chances a lot, you know.  I think going over there and winning a game in New York was pretty big.  Having the chance just to come back here and play on our home field where we feel pretty good.  Gil did spectacular last time.  We've just got to figure out Pettitte.  I think we can do that.  I said yesterday if somebody could come up with one big hit, you know, I think that could put us over the hump and get us going. 

Q.  If you win tonight, this could be the end of the Yankees' dynasty.  Any thoughts on that, especially competing with some of the guys who won three world titles? 

ERIC CHAVEZ:  I don't mind at all.  I mean, they've won enough times (smiling).  It's time for some other people to have some glory here.  But, no, they've had a great run.  I mean, it's hard to stay No.  1.  Everybody's gunning for you; everybody's trying to beat you.  They're going to throw their best at you.  They've done a phenomenal job as it is.  But it's time.  I think tonight, you know, if we can get this game, I think people are going to start looking at this team, you know, for years to come as hopefully starting something that they accomplished a couple years ago and have done the last couple years. 

Q.  Do you think it will help you at all against Pettitte that you faced him so recently?  Does it give you any edge? 

ERIC CHAVEZ:  Yeah, I think it does.  I mean, it goes both ways.  They just saw Heredia the other day.  But, you know, for me, it's always feeling comfortable, it has a lot to do with success.  I know tonight I'm going to go in there feeling comfortable.  Hopefully the other guys will, too.  That doesn't really mean anything.  But to have success, you've got to feel comfortable what you're doing.  You know, I'm certainly going to feel a lot more comfortable than going into that first playoff game against them, and also the second game. 

Q.  All year you hit eighth in the order.  Now in the playoffs you hit fourth, fifth, and tonight sixth.  Is there a different feeling?  Is it what you wanted? 

ERIC CHAVEZ:  Yeah, I mean, it's good for my confidence, you know.  I really appreciated Skip moving me up in the lineup.  I've wanted to hit there for a little while.  You look in front of you.  It's hard to complain because there's really nowhere to go.  You know, he's playing the hot hands right now.  He played a big one last night with Olmedo, and that worked.  He's playing some other big hands that's worked the last couple months.  You know, I appreciate it.  It's just a boost of confidence for myself.  It makes me feel a lot better about the person I am and the baseball player that I think I'm going to become. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT