DAVIS CUP - SPAIN vs AUSTRALIA
December 10, 2000
Javier Duarte
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. What does this game mean for you?  
 
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: It means a lot, a lot of happiness. I had the chance to win it,
and it was great to win the first Davis Cup title for Spain. It was very, very hard, but I
fought a lot during the game. We came out 3-1, but I want to make it clear it's a victory
of all the team, not only of mine, it's a victory for everyone.  
 
Q. After winning the game, what went through your mind? 
 
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: Nothing really. Just the thought that we did it, that we won it.
It was a dream come true. I was very emotional at the end. But really I didn't think
anything in particular.  
 
Q. Were you tired? You looked tired in the fourth set. 
 
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: Yes, I was tired at the end of the third set because we were
playing every point. He's a player that plays every point. After losing the third set, I
was a little tired, but then I got a couple things and got up again and ready to play the
fourth set.  
 
Q. What were you experiencing during the last two points? 
 
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: A lot of tension. We wanted to win. But I played it like any
others, like I played all the match points I had. I had a couple, couldn't make it. Third
one, couldn't make it. Finally, it came with the fourth one.  
 
Q. What do you think about the fans and what do you think about Lleyton Hewitt's way of
facing the match? 
 
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: The fans were great. They were really into it. I would give them
an 11 out of 10. On Lleyton Hewitt, I would like to say he's always like that, so there's
no big change between the games that were played before and today.  
 
Q. He didn't shake your hand, did he? 
 
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: Yes, he did actually at the end before the ceremony. He said,
"Good game." We just shook hands. Same thing with all the Australian team, they
congratulated the Spanish team on the victory.  
 
Q. Were you expecting Hewitt's resistance? 
 
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: Yes, I thought he would be tired, but actually he wasn't. He
played pretty hard. I played very, very well. I was very happy to give Spain the decisive
point of the final.  
 
Q. You said this was the first title for Spain. Are you expecting another one? 
 
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: Yes, yes. There's always hope. There always needs to be hope. But
it was very, very tough to win it, so we need to enjoy and celebrate this one, then we'll
think about upcoming finals and titles.  
 
Q. Among the magic moments in your career, how was it being lifted up to shake hands
with the King?
 
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: It was great. It was one of the best victories of his lifetime,
actually the best, he says. With the King, he met him before. It was great. It always
feels great to be around the King and the Queen.  
 
Q. Why didn't you play the fifth game? Was this the two captains decided together? 
 
 CAPTAIN DUARTE: Yes. When it was 3-1, we decided we were not going to play it. Both
teams decided that. The final score is 3-1. We agreed upon it.  
 
Q. How do you rank this generation of players in history? 
 
 CAPTAIN DUARTE: Well, I think today the title is the summary of everything of this
generation. It's the best ever generation of Spanish players, not only these four, but
everybody. Unfortunately, we can only have four players on the team. It's going to be hard
to repeat this group of players in history. I also want to underline that they're very
young. Their average age is very young.  
 
Q. Do you think you will be able to win the Davis Cup on several surfaces all around
the season? This time you played home on clay. Will it be possible for you to keep the
title playing on different surfaces? 
 
 CAPTAIN DUARTE: Perfectly. It's easier to play home. We'd rather play on clay. Away, it
would be tougher. But with the players we have, they're proven players who have won on
different surfaces. First going into second rounds, then quarterfinals and finals in
different tournaments. They've proven they can win. We play very good on hard. Grass might
be our toughest because we just don't play enough on grass. I'm looking forward to play on
hard with these players because I know when we go on the road, we're not going to be
playing on clay, they'll put another type of surface.  
 
Q. December 10th, this is a historical date for Spain. What is this going to mean for
the sport of tennis? 
 
 CAPTAIN DUARTE: I think maybe an executive could answer that a little better than I.
It's just the result of a lot of years, many years of work. You don't get this in a week,
in a day, in a month. It's in years. These kids have worked many, many years. They were
born into tennis, most of them, with the Olympics in Barcelona. This tells you how much
time they've been working and fighting hard to accomplish this. This is just the earned
prize after these many years of working hard.  
 
Q. Are you going to keep betting on the team as a concept, just like Alex going to
Spanish literature? 
 
 CAPTAIN DUARTE: Yes, we're definitely going to be betting for the team. We have
leaders, but there's no thieves, no horses, we're just the team. It's common sense the way
we've done things. When you use common sense, things just work out. I want to highlight
Alex, it was a special final for him as he was asked to not play on the first day. But I
was very surprised, greatly surprised, with his reaction. I just want to highlight that.  
 
Q. We were a bit concerned when you ran onto court and jumped on Juan Carlos, whether
he'd ever get up again. Could you say something about his performance today, playing him
in this fourth match? 
 
 CAPTAIN DUARTE: This is your first funny question in the whole time (laughter). Juan
Carlos carried the game very, very well. He was very superior in the first set. The second
one was really hard, especially the tiebreak. But after winning it, the Australian team
was going uphill. Hewitt came back, really fighting like he always does, won the third,
also a tough set. The final, just the last points were marvelous. Juan Carlos played
marvelous.  
 
Q. You should thank Juan Carlos twice, one for winning the final, then for not having
to play because he won. 
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: I don't want to be unfair and not give Juan Carlos all the credit. He
was great. He's a great tennis player. We know he's a great human being also. I want to go
through a little bit through the games. First Albert really taking Hewitt to the wire and
really making him work hard on Friday to earn a victory, Albert playing, very, very good.
Then Ferrero defeating Rafter, who did a great job. We also played great in the doubles.
Today, when I was in the locker room, it was 2-0 for us in sets, it was tough to get ready
mentally because I was expecting Juan Carlos to win, but I tried to relax, I kept thinking
that Albert was the one more cheering in the locker room. I was reading a magazine, but I
was watching more tennis than reading the magazine. It was being a little bit
uncomfortable not knowing the outcome. I had eight racquets ready, I had three dishes of
pasta. I want to give credit to Juan Carlos for this big win. 
 
Q. Juan Carlos is a fan of Real Madrid in soccer. When he won the point, everyone at
Barcelona stadium cheered. What do you think about this? 
 
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: I'm very happy either being a Real Madrid fan, that everybody was
happy for my win.  
 ALBERT COSTA: It's good to be followed by everybody, that everybody around the city and
the country are following us and being aware of what we're doing and happy with our win.  
 
Q. Were you dreaming you could win the final point, the decisive point for Spain? 
 
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: Yes. In fact, last night when I was going to bed, I thought about
it. I was dreaming and celebrating. It just became incredible. I never expected it that
way. It's a very, very happy feeling.  
 
Q. Is this going to change your life and your career? 
 
 JUAN CARLOS FERRERO: I don't know if it's going to change it, but it's definitely a
great, great experience for the future for other tournaments. It gives me a lot of
confidence, having this opportunity, taking profit of it at the age of 20. It's very
important for the future.  
 
Q. When you were celebrating, you called your other three captains and also the coach
of Juan Carlos. This means that we're going to have five captains for next season? 
 
 CAPTAIN DUARTE: Well, it could be five, six, seven, eight, depending how many people we
want to bring over. I understand your question. I can not answer it right now. Now is time
to enjoy. We have to think in the future with the Federation, talk it over, see how we're
going to do it - if it's going to be one captain or ten captains.  
 
Q. Juan, you had a big outcome come beating New Zealand. You like to face the continent
opposite to ours. 
 
 JUAN BALCELLS: In fact, yes. It's gone well for me. First in New Zealand I was able to
win, avoid dropping into division two. In the finals, I was able to beat Australia. It
seems that continent is going to be good for me. There's not going to be happy, but I
don't really care about it.  
 
Q. Is it a special feeling that you lost the only point? 
 
 ALBERT COSTA: Somebody has to lose. In four ties we've only lost two points. Somebody
has to lose. It was once one doubles and myself. That happens. I feel a winner as
everyone. I'm very, very happy.  
 CAPTAIN DUARTE: He wants to thank everyone. It's been a great event. Everybody has
worked hard. Thanks for your support. It's been great. You work with us 98%, that's
enough. Thank you very much.  
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT