NHL STADIUM SERIES: CAPITALS VS MAPLE LEAFS
March 3, 2018
John Carlson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Capitals - 5, Maple Leafs - 2
MODERATOR: Questions for John Carlson.
Q. Why don't you take us through when you're walking into the building, what you saw of the atmosphere and just sort of your emotions through that?
JOHN CARLSON: It reminded me a lot when I came here to unveil the jersey.  It was senior night, their last home game of the season, and they needed to win to be eligible for a bowl game.  I thought they brought good energy there and it felt like that.
Q. How much of a boost is it when the top players on the team are going like they were early in the game today and throughout most of it?
JOHN CARLSON: I think especially at the start, that's important.  The leaders of team we rely on them the most.  And when they come out hot like that, I think everyone else kind of follows suit.
Q. Did you feel like you guys maybe raised your game to this stage, one of your more complete games in a while?
JOHN CARLSON: I think we navigated the game.  I think we've been a little off in terms of that, when to push, when to maybe be a little more safe, when to be real aggressive.  And I think tonight with the conditions, we had our mind set in a good place for that sort of thing.
And I think it seemed like we were on the right side of the puck all night.  We weren't really ever getting beat for breakaways and odd-man rushes.
We were in good position and the work ethic was there to get back and make sure that we were in good standing and keeping them to the outside.
Q. Was there any special significance for you being an American on such a special stage with the U.S. curlers in town and the women's USA Hockey team?  Did you realize those moments and take significance from that?
JOHN CARLSON: It was special.  The women's team and also the curlers, the people that we followed closely during the Olympics, obviously.  And it was cool to have them in the building.
It was cool to see the fans' reaction to them.  They've been, especially the women's team has been doing a lot of stuff media-wise throughout the country but also in DC the past couple of days.
So to see the rise they got out of a lot of fans and all that kind of stuff throughout the area was really cool.  And it was a heck of a job by both of those teams to bring back gold.
MODERATOR: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT