U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
May 31, 2019
Heather Young
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Heather Young is plus 15 for the championship.
Q. Heather, how did it go for you out there today?
HEATHER YOUNG: Not so good.  It was -- I actually hit the ball slightly better, but my short game wasn't quite as good, and I didn't putt as well, so the score was a little higher.
Q. Despite how the score was, how do you take all this in from what this week has been like for you, to get back out here and play another Open?
HEATHER YOUNG: It's been fun.  I figured it was going to go one of two ways.  It would either make me want to practice more or practice less.  It definitely makes me want to practice more.
I still -- I don't like going out and shooting 78, 79.  If I didn't care, then I'd probably start practicing less.  It just makes me realize, I do still love this game.  I do still love to compete, and it makes me want to go home and figure out why I didn't hit my irons very well this week.
Q. Coming out here for your team, what was that like for them?  Have they talked to you?  What's it been like for them to see you out here?
HEATHER YOUNG: I've gotten a lot of text messages.  They're very proud of me.  They're very excited that I'm here.  I've had a lot of support.  I've had more support in two days than maybe I've had in 15 years of playing golf.  More support this week than I've had in my other ten Opens, and that meant a lot to me, which I'm grateful for.
Q. Any pointers from their side of things?
HEATHER YOUNG: Any pointers?
Q. That they've sent to you?
HEATHER YOUNG: No, they didn't send me any pointers.  They said good luck.
Q. What's it been like to have the whole Clemson community behind you over the course of this week?
HEATHER YOUNG: It's amazing.  Every day, I'm surprised at the people.  We have this #Clemsonfamily, and it's real.  It's not just a saying, it's a feeling.  Go Tigers.  I heard that more this week than I've ever been cheered for in my life, anywhere.  It's been great.
Q. What is the biggest thing you take away from your time here this week?
HEATHER YOUNG: It's hard to compete when you haven't had the reps.  You do have to put in the work.  Especially nowadays, the competition is so close.  That's the way it is in college too.  I mean, the college players are a lot better.  If you don't intentionally practice before going into an event, you can't really expect to play that well.
Q. Is there anything you're taking away from the field as a whole that you're bringing back with you to the team or in your own game?
HEATHER YOUNG: I mean, you just, the amount of focus that you need to have on each shot.  I mean, I know that.  I mean, I know that in my head, but you have to reiterate it more and more all the time.
To know in your head and to know in your heart is two different things.  When you're preparing for an event, you have to really intentionally prepare.  It's not how many hours you do.  It's the quality of the hours.
You definitely need lots of quality.  You need quantity too, but it's not just all about that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT