U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
May 30, 2019
Heather Young
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Heather, this obviously had to be incredible to be back out here, the first round in almost two years.  What's that like, switching back, the competition itself, watching your Clemson Tigers, to then being back in the field yourself?
HEATHER YOUNG: It makes you realize how hard it is.  It's easy when you're standing outside the ropes or when you're standing to the side giving kids numbers and asking them to hit certain shots.  But I don't really -- I don't control my distances like I used to, and it's tough to do that in an Open.  I drove it okay, but my iron play was off.  But that's a just a lack of reps.
I did enjoy the walk today.  That was my goal.  And I enjoyed every shot.
Q. That had to be super special, just to be back in this building.  A month ago, you had no clue this was even a possibility.  You questioned, what am I doing with all this?  What's it like to live it out, see this happen again?
HEATHER YOUNG: It's fun.  There's nothing in sports that I've experienced like being inside the ropes.  I mean, it's -- I cherished it when I played full-time, and I really cherished it today.  I hit some good shots, hit some bad shots, and that's the way golf is.
But it was great, and it's so much fun.  I mean, there's no better job in the world.  I'm so glad I got to do it for as long as I did.
Q. Talk about some of the smaller moments that you really cherished, just walking the green, talking with other athletes.  What were some of those things you enjoyed?
HEATHER YOUNG: I had a great group, just super girls.  Hannah and Albane are awesome.  And golf has come so far.  Like the way they hit the ball now, they're totally athletes.  It's not just about keeping the ball in front of you.  It's how far you can hit it.  I'm excited to see where the game is going.  It's on a super high trajectory.  It's fun to watch.
Q. How do you think the elements played a factor into your round today, with the heat, the wind going back and forth?  How did that affect your play?
HEATHER YOUNG: The wind got me more than the heat, I'd say.  I've been resting up.  I've been hydrating, but I did not control my trajectory very well.  Therefore, it's hard to figure out what number to hit it when you don't know which level you're going to hit it at.  It definitely got me.  I haven't practiced much in the wind.  I hit some the way I wanted to, and some not so much.
Q. You think you'll catch some flack from your girls when you go back or will you get support?
HEATHER YOUNG: All support.  They don't ever give me flack, no.  I don't see that coming.  They were great.  When I finished third in the qualifier, they put a banner on my house as if I'd won the U.S. Open.  They'll be great.
Q. What's that support meant, from the people, I'm sure, like, like Tim Bourret, just celebrating the moment, to then having the team and Kelly on your bag.  This is really a special moment, not just for yourself, but to share with friends and family.
HEATHER YOUNG: The family there is amazing.  The atmosphere of the school, from President Clements to Dan Radakovich, it's like a holistic place.  I've never in my life had as much support as I had out there today, I don't think.  I had so many go Tigers.  I couldn't not smile with every step.
Q. That's not even your alma mater, but does that make it more special knowing that you're in this place and it's now your new home?
HEATHER YOUNG: It's definitely now my new home.  I've been at Clemson longer than I was at either school I played at.  The two schools I played at, I was there for two year.  So I'm bleeding orange, for sure.
Q. I'm sure that will continue over into tomorrow.  What do you hope to continue tomorrow?  What do you want to do with your play after having experienced this first round?
HEATHER YOUNG: I just want to hit my irons a little better.  That's all I want to do tomorrow is hit my irons a little better and just stay in the moment.  I did that well today, but just stay in the moment and enjoy the round.
Q. Quick turnaround tomorrow.  Tomorrow you're going to have the morning session.  How do you get rejuvenated and get ready to go back out there tomorrow morning?
HEATHER YOUNG: I like this flip.  I like going late/early because it's like one big continuous round.  You have a dinner break, you sleep, and you go right back out there.  I like playing early on Fridays.  Get the good greens and just see what happens.
Q. I'm curious, just from you saying stay in the moment, stay in the moment, what did you envision this moment to be?  For two years, like you said, since you played last, I'm sure you had to wonder if you would ever step on a course between the ropes again.
HEATHER YOUNG: Oh, I never thought I'd be here.  I never thought I'd be standing here.  The morning of the qualifier, I wasn't even sure I was going to play.  I didn't really have any expectations.  My expectation was to be able to get through 18 holes today and 18 holes tomorrow and see what happens.
Q. Last question I have, in terms of being able to get to that moment, what will it feel like when you get off Friday, when everything's done?  What will be that moment -- will it be satisfaction?  Relief?  What do you think you'll feel?
HEATHER YOUNG: I mean, it will be a little bit of everything.  It will be mostly gratitude that I'm here.  But I'm sure, you know, I still want to compete and still want to play decent.  I'm sure there will be a little disappointment, but mostly gratitude.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT