WGC BARBADOS WORLD CUP
December 8, 2006
Roger Beale, Jr.
James Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 JAMES JOHNSON: Well, we've still got two more days. We try to be as kind of mentally at ease,  that's not really the right word but we're trying to have as much fun as we can  this week. I know that we're not  expected to do -- if you were to rate us in the World Rankings, we would be way  down. 
 So we know if we played well on our  home course, we can do well. 
 It's a very new experience for me,  and I'm trying to do as well as I can and promote the island and just enjoy it  as much as I can. 

 Q.  How have the other pros reacted to you?  Do they know your circumstances and are they interested? 
 JAMES JOHNSON: I think a few of them know but I haven't  really heard too much from them. Stephen  Ames had a brief chat with me. They are  very supportive. I think anyone who  plays professional sports understands how tough it is. I just -- it's a difficult decision for  me. I love the game but you know, I just  chose to stay or go back to amateur status. 
 I think try and enjoy it. It was the right decision for me. Basically not playing well enough in my own  mind. 

 Q.  So explain what happens on Monday as you hand your professional status  back or what goes on. 
 JAMES JOHNSON: Pretty much as soon as I give back the money  that will come to me, I will be an amateur.  The Barbados Golf Association pretty much runs the amateur body  here. Then just contacting the R&A  and asking for advice, and they were a little bit surprised because they never  heard of a case where an amateur was receiving this much money and giving it  away so to speak.
 They had said because of the  uniqueness of the situation and having wanted to represent my country in this  event, once I give back or donate my earnings, I'm not gaining monetarily from  this. So as far as they was concerned --  but they said it would be the PGA's decision.  As far as I've been told, I'll go back relatively immediately to  amateur. 

 Q.  Will you go back to your old job on Monday? 
 JAMES JOHNSON: Not Monday.  Probably about Wednesday. (Laughter).

 ROGER BEALE, JR.: No, just how are and you basically just  asking them how they are doing; if they, you know, need anywhere to eat dinner  and stuff like that. Just trying to be  the best host that we can and certainly on the West Coast there's plenty of  great restaurants. 
 It's been great. The locker room is cool. You see your name with the rest of the best  players in the world, so, yeah, that's something certainly you remember from  this week. 
 JAMES JOHNSON: The Welsh team was very supportive of us  yesterday. 
 ROGER BEALE, JR.: Unbelievable, classy guys, really. 
 JAMES JOHNSON: They were really encouraging us. We got off to a good start and we were kind  of hanging in there and they were --
 ROGER BEALE, JR.: Not to take away from the Danes, but we got  off to such a rough start -- it's contagious or something. 
 JAMES JOHNSON: Thomas didn't really speak much but Soren was  very nice.

 Q.  Thomas has got a bad neck so that might explain it.
 JAMES JOHNSON: Okay. 

 Q.  You struggled early on, what were the mental challenges early on? 
 JAMES JOHNSON: In this format we've been trying to emphasize  getting into a good rhythm. 
 ROGER BEALE, JR.: Good rhythm. 
 JAMES JOHNSON: Because it's that much more tricky than the  better ball, once you kind of consistently are hitting fairways and get the  ball on the green, we felt very comfortable on the greens all week and we've  made four birdies yesterday and three today and our kind of goal is to get  ourselves on the green as much as possible. 
 But earlier, starting off early  today, like any other round, you're trying to get into a flow. 
 ROGER BEALE, JR.: Just get relaxed. 
 JAMES JOHNSON: Ideally we want to be hitting all the fairways  and the greens but it doesn't always happen.  It's tricky with the wind. All  the players will tell you, 20 to 30 miles an hour wind, it's hard. You've got a little white ball that, you  know, is going 300 yards and you're trying to keep it within a 25-yard fairway  is tough for even the top players.

 Q.  James, based on the expectations you had before the start of this week,  has anything particularly surprised you, and what's been the most difficult  thing to handle? 
 JAMES JOHNSON: As I said yesterday, I thought I would be a  lot more kind of overwhelmed with this week and a little bit more nervous. I haven't really felt much of that at all  which surprising. 
 We've both played golf for a long  time so I think the golf side of it, pretty much know what's got to be  expected. You've got to hit shots and  you've got to make putts. The mental  challenges are I suppose the biggest challenges in any sport. We both try hard to just relax and enjoy it  as much as possible, and that is our way of dealing with it. 
 ROGER BEALE, JR.: It's the secret to our success I would  imagine. Again, as we said before we  have nothing to lose so just go out and let it rip. We did that for about 14 holes. The first couple obviously we got a little  off our rhythm, got in some water, bailed it out and we're good. 

 Q.  What were the nerves like standing on the first tee yesterday? 
 JAMES JOHNSON: Not too bad for me. 
 ROGER BEALE, JR.: Believe it or not, before I hit the shot, I  was fine. After, my heart was beating a  thousand beats a minute. I thought  people could hear it. When the crowd  yelled, I just was shocked that I would be feeling that way to be honest with  you. It felt great. 
 JAMES JOHNSON: The biggest surprise for me so far this week  is that I haven't been as nervous as I was expecting. I don't know, I guess being in Barbados, maybe just a little bit  different. Maybe if it was in the  States, you're in a bit of a strange place maybe. 

 Q.  The gallery seemed to be treating you like national heroes. I mean, they are just going crazy for you  boys. Do you think that once you see  yourself on television, it might sink in a different way? When you look at the tape and the broadcast? 
 ROGER BEALE, JR.: Possibly. 
 JAMES JOHNSON: I don't think it will for me. I'm a pretty laid back person and I've  thought it out. We've had some mental  drills with our coach, and even if we were to win this week or finish in the  Top-10, I don't think it would change the way I live my life. 
 So, you know, this is a big deal,  but I kind of -- you know, it's still just a game I suppose. That's how we're trying to look at it. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT