WGC BARBADOS WORLD CUP
December 7, 2006
Roger Beale, Jr.
James Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 JAMES JOHNSON: We were on the range warming up this morning,  rain was coming down pretty hard and we thought we were in for a long day with  a lot of wet weather. The wind was  blowing kind of 20, 30 miles an hour, and we knew it was going to be a tough  day. 
 We saw some of the scores going up  there and no one was really going too low.  So we both kind of chatted with one another and we felt if we could get  off to a good start and have a few birdies, early on, that would be a platform  for a good day. 

 ROGER BEALE, JR.: It wasn't too bad. 
 JAMES JOHNSON: We birdied 3 and 5, so we were 2-under. That was the start we wanted. 
 We got up on 6 and the wind was  blowing probably about 30 or 35 miles an hour, ridiculous. That's when it was at hits heaviest and it  was raining as well. We parred 7 and 8,  and then I made a long putt on 10 to go 3-under and we were feeling really  good. I think we were 15th at that  point. And then unfortunately we made a  bogey on 13. Got it back on 15 with a  birdie and had a bogey on 17. 
 But all in all, score wasn't real  low, but we're ahead of a few teams and happy with how we played and we hit  some good shots. So we're going to try  hard for the next three days. 

 Q.  It must feel good to be ahead of some other teams, like Trinidad &  Tobago; how does that feel? 
 JAMES JOHNSON: Yeah, I noticed those guys, I think they were  1-under because we're ahead of them. Yeah,  Stephen is a great player and we know him personally. So I'm sure he won't like the fact that we're  ahead of him but we're going to try our best to stay ahead of him and as many  teams as we can for the rest of the week. 

 Q.  Roger, how was it for you?
 ROGER BEALE, JR.: It was great honestly. The first tee I was a bit pumped up  obviously. The crowd was out some, they  were loud; loud and proud so, that was good. 
 Yeah, James played really  solid. I was there to help him out on  occasion so that was good. But maybe I  can get my act together a little more as the week goes on, make a few more  birdies because really that's what we need.  You're going to make the odd bogey.  That's going to happen. They set  up the golf course that way. It's  fair. The conditions are tough but if we  can just sneak a few more birds, that would be great. It was good.  Really, really enjoyed it.

 Q.  Could you both talk about what the build up was like this morning  waiting to go off last? The buildup for  this I'm sure has been so long. 
 JAMES JOHNSON: A year. 

 Q.  This morning, waiting three hours for every other group ahead of you to  start, what was that like? 
 JAMES JOHNSON: I anticipated it being a lot more  difficult. I thought, you know, I've  always kind of dreamed of playing on the PGA TOUR and, you know, being next to  a lot of these great players. I was very  surprised how relaxed I was today which is a good thing. You know, this event for Barbados is huge, huge for Barbados golf. We've been trying to promote Barbados through it for the last month or  so, couple of months. It's a big deal. 
 But no nerves for me really this  morning which was surprising. 

 Q.  Have either of you played -- today's condition were so wildly unusual I  would imagine for Barbados, have either of you played this course in anything  remotely similar before? 
 ROGER BEALE, JR.: Not really.  We had one day in the practise rounds that we played with maybe but not  with the on and off rain. 
 JAMES JOHNSON: Roger lives in Ottawa.  I'm based here, and we get winds like this. Not so much the rain but we get winds like  this, I wouldn't say they are common but they are not uncommon. 
 We haven't actually had conditions  like this in the last couple of months. 
 ROGER BEALE, JR.: Rain off and on and swirling winds. 
 JAMES JOHNSON: We were expecting some wind, so I think we  were actually hoping for it because I think that will help us a little  bit. We were a little more accustomed to  that. But definitely an unusual day. 
 ROGER BEALE, JR.: For sure. 

 Q.  Was there any moment out there where a fan may have approached you or  somebody said something; was there any moment that particularly stood out as  how important this is to this country? 
 JAMES JOHNSON: I think the whole day, we had from what I  heard the biggest following. There was  probably a couple hundred people there watching us, and most of them, I would  say at least half of them were close friends and family. 
 ROGER BEALE, JR.: Yeah, we know them. (Laughing)
JAMES  JOHNSON: It was really great. The atmosphere, every good thing we did it  was like a big roar. We made a couple of  birdies and I made a really long putt of about 60 feet on the 10th hole and  everyone was going berserk. So that was  pretty neat. 
 You know, all of the youngsters in  the crowd were cheering us on. We were  kind of expecting that a little bit, too, but it's really neat and fun to be  out here this week. 
 ROGER BEALE, JR.: Really a privilege. It was an honour to be out there. The support was fabulous and it really, for  me, it helped me a lot. Because my game  was not as super-sharp as I would like, and they really helped me stay focused  and hang in there so it was great.

 Q.  It's cliche to ask this but have you had a moment on the golf course  that would equate to what you heard after making birdie on 10? 
 JAMES JOHNSON: I've never, no. I played in some big NCAA events, but I think  the fact that we know so many of the people there and we're representing Barbados in Barbados in the World Cup is just so unique. 
 We've been seeing over the last  couple of weeks how great this is going to be and how much fun we're going to  try and have. Today we definitely did. 
 ROGER BEALE, JR.: It was fun, absolutely. Even though the weather was difficult and it  was frustrating on and off with the umbrellas and rain gear, but absolutely,  the people were fabulous, they really were.  They really gave us a lot of support and really carried us along I  think, kept our momentum going. 

 Q.  What are your plans for tomorrow? 
 JAMES JOHNSON: Well, tomorrow is the more difficult format  of the alternate-shot. So we're not  going to be able to get away with some of the mistakes we had today. 
 I think our goal is par, par or  better. I think it's unlikely that the  weather conditions are going to change drastically. I think that even if it's dry, there will be  some wind. 
 We're both playing well. I think if we can just stick to our game  plan, and go and have a good, solid day and make some good decisions, we'll be  okay. 

 Q.  Do you know how you'll break it up tomorrow as far as who will lead? 
 ROGER BEALE, JR.: I'm leading on No. 1 so I'll be odds and  James will be evens. 

 JAMES JOHNSON: Yeah. 

 JAMES JOHNSON: Well, the dream was to play professional.

 JAMES JOHNSON: The last three years I've been playing  amateur golf. We asked the Tour if  amateurs could play this event and basically the stipulation was two amateurs  could play it, but an amateur and professional couldn't play together. So Roger being a professional, I had to turn  pro, but I didn't want to maintain that so we contacted the R&A, as I was  telling you yesterday; they were kind of a little bit in shock. They had never heard of a situation where,  you know, you're earning money but you want to give it away so to speak. 
 I've had a lot of expenses traveling  this year trying to prepare, and basically the money I earn this week will go  to the Barbados Golf Association. They  have helped me with a lot of my expenses this year, and I will get my amateur  status back pretty much immediately. That  was the R&A. 

 ROGER BEALE, JR.: Yeah, I was basically a club pro for most of  my career. Last year I played on the  Canadian Tour and this year, I didn't keep my card and just basically took a  year off just to try and save some money and practise and got into this event. 
 So, I might try it again, but I'm  not sure, we'll see. 

 ROGER BEALE, JR.: Actually in Boca Raton.  Stephen Ames went there.

 Q.  I'm sure you've answered this question a hundred times, but it begs the  question: If you turned pro for this  weekend, what is the thinking as far as giving it up and going back to amateur? 
 JAMES JOHNSON: I didn't want to have to turn  professional. But the stipulation and  the circumstances --

 Q.  But do you feel that you're not ready to turn pro or you just enjoy the  Amateur status? 
 JAMES JOHNSON: Basically I played in college, and I don't  feel like I'm good enough, basically, in a nutshell. 

 JAMES JOHNSON: I got my degree in advertising marketing, and  I'm working with my family business and we have some restaurants and some slot  machines. So I'm in that. 
 ROGER BEALE, JR.: Big-time.  (Laughter).
 JAMES JOHNSON: I'm enjoying my life in Barbados as opposed to beating my head up  against the wall playing the Tour. As  great as it is, it's pretty hard and I know that from playing five years in the  States, so I just -- it was a tough decision, but it's one I made and I kind of  stick with it. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT