AT&T PEBBLE BEACH NATIONAL PRO-AM
February 14, 2009
Retief Goosen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MARK STEVENS: Thank you for taking the time to come on. If you would just kind of tell us a little bit about your round today and then we'll take a few questions.   
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Well, it was a terrible round of golf. I played poorly tee to green. It was a very disappointing round, played myself a little bit out of the tournament now, but you know, I'm going to need a very low round tomorrow to have a chance of catching the leader now.   
 But yeah, very disappointing round. It wasn't very comfortable out there at all today and couldn't hit the ball well and struggled, really.   
 MARK STEVENS: Was it that you see a big difference in the course conditions today? Did that lead a lot to it?   
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Not really. You know, yesterday I didn't feel that great out there, too, but I was in a good rhythm on the golf course.   
 Today everything was out of sorts. My timing of my golf swing was bad. I kept hitting it left and right, which is not good. Yeah, I missed a lot of greens today. I must have probably only hit five greens in regulation today. So it was a real struggle. It's a shame. It would have been nice to at least finish up near 12, but we'll just have to get out there tomorrow and try better.  
 MARK STEVENS: You're coming back to Pebble Beach tomorrow where you had a good round yesterday. Do you have any thoughts on that?   
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Well, yeah. I'm glad I don't have to play Spyglass again. Yeah, at least Pebble, after a good round yesterday, I might feel a little bit more comfortable on it than I did today. But I need to go to the range this afternoon and try and find something to take me out to the course tomorrow.   
  
  Q. Any thoughts on what tomorrow might hold in terms of weather?   
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Well, you know, the wind is already starting to pick up. Apparently it's supposed to be very gusty tomorrow and wet, so we'll just have to wait and see. I think it's going to be tough tomorrow. That's probably what I need, tough conditions. If I can get a good round in tomorrow, it's about the only chance I've got of catching the leader now.  
  
  Q. How much help do you need, five shots at Pebble?   
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Well, you know, I need to show a low one tomorrow, or just a reasonable low round tomorrow. I think anything in the 60s tomorrow if it's bad will be good.   
 Yeah, I just hit the ball very poorly today, and I need to just go to the range and work on a few things and see if I can just find a problem or find some timing, really. My timing has been very off.   
  
  Q. Did you find a greater problem off the tee or with an iron in your hand in the fairway, or did it matter?  
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Both, unfortunately. But probably mostly the driving. I drove it poorly. I was in the rough most of the time and in bunkers, so then you struggle to hit it close anyway. Off the tee has been a big problem today.   
 MARK STEVENS: Retief, thank you for joining us, and good luck tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT