SOUTH AFRICAN OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
December 20, 2008
Retief Goosen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE GREEN: Retief, thanks for coming in, a really solid round today, a lot of guys starting low in the first two rounds and you have been steady and quiet and just keeping up on the leaders. Are you feeling pretty good?   
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Well, I don't think it was nice and steady. Struggled a bit on the front nine and made a nice, long putt on 10 and that sort of settled me down a bit. I just told myself, if I can really try to shoot 2-under, hopefully I won't be more than four or five behind.  
 Had a good back nine at the end, and concentrating too hard on that line when I hit it, so, yeah, I think Lee is probably going to finish 14 or better; so three off the lead, I'll need to shoot a low round tomorrow.  
 MIKE GREEN: 4-iron into the 18th, that must have made you smile.  
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, solid shot, about 223 metres to the flag. I just hit a perfect 4-iron.   
  
  Q. Was the back nine easier?  
 RETIEF GOOSEN: No, the front nine played easier. Out of the two nines, the front nine is definitely the easier nine today. The first three holes, 3-under after three holes, and the fifth, that's a par 4, and it's downwind.   
 It was a disappointing start and thought maybe I was out of the tournament. I struggled with my swing but came back nicely on the back nine to get back in.   
  
  Q. (What will you have to shoot tomorrow)?  
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Tomorrow, if it's similar today, the course started to play tricky today when the breeze started to pick up, especially the back nine. All depends on what Lee finishes on. If he has a bad finish, then we all are going to have to shoot a low round tomorrow.  
  
  Q. Inaudible?  
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Well, I know it isn't easy to with a 5-iron, but there's a few tricky drives out there. There's a few holes there that can be -- 13 today, the par 5, you hit a bad drive there, you're going to struggle. It's a tough par 5 there today. It's like any golf hole. If you hit a good shot, you can make birdie and if you make a bad one you're going to struggle.   
  
  Q. Do you think your putting --  
 RETIEF GOOSEN: You know, we all can say that when we have our chances to make a lot more birdies today but I've just not been making a lot of putts. Hopefully tomorrow they will all come at once.   
  
  Q. How would you assess your game --  
 RETIEF GOOSEN: I hope so. I've been working hard on my fitness and on my golf swing, as well, a little bit and I feel like my putting has been better than it's been in the past, the last year, so if you can make some putts, you can win. That's the only way you can win tournaments. Hopefully tomorrow I'm going to keep on hitting it solid and make some putts.   
  
  Q. Inaudible?  
 RETIEF GOOSEN: He caddied for me earlier in the year in Germany, but he's now sort of full-time on the bag.   
  
  Q. Inaudible?  
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Well, it's nice to see the guys coming up and supporting this event this year. It's a really strong field, as you say, and better stronger World Rankings and everything with it.   
  
  Q. Inaudible?  
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Oh, yeah, it's a great tournament this year. Everything has been upgraded the. The course is in great shape, everything about it. The crowd is much better and everything around the clubhouse that they have done for the players, as well.   
  
  Q. Inaudible?  
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Well, I think -- if it does or not, I've seen some of the pin placements for tomorrow, and they are all in tough spots. So wind or no wind, it's going to be tough. You're going to have to hit the shot and make the putts to win.   
 MIKE GREEN: Thanks very much.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT