ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 28, 2017
Retief Goosen
Tyrone Van Aswegen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Gentlemen, sensational round of golf today.  Retief, I hear you're the captain of this duo.  What was the message to get back on the right track today?  
RETIEF GOOSEN: We played very well yesterday, and we just finished very poorly yesterday, 4-over in the last three, so we knew we had to go low today to at least make the cut, and we started off with a nice birdie on 10, and I made a good birdie on 11, and from there on we just blended very well.  He makes birdie, I make birdie, he makes eagle, I make birdie.  He hit a great putt on the last hole for 59, and I left my short; can you believe it?  Leave it short for 59.  Anyway, it was a good round.  We combined very well, and hopefully we can keep it going tomorrow.   
 Q.  Tyrone, I know this has been a dream opportunity to play in a team event like this with Retief, but to get yourself into contention today, pretty special Friday.  
TYRONE VAN ASWEGEN: Absolutely, yeah.  It was a great opportunity for me to play with Retief, and like he said, we just blended so well today.  I made birdie and then he made birdie.  It was great.  It was a privilege out there.   
 Q.  Tomorrow going back to alternate-shot.  Anything you take from yesterday to adjust going into the weekend?  
RETIEF GOOSEN: I don't think so.  You know, it's just alternate-shot.  There's no backup, so you've just got to -- you have to play well.  Yesterday unfortunately he'd hit a bad shot and then I'd hit a bad shot, too, so it was just a bad combination.  But the rest of the round yesterday, he was chipping and putting awesome, and again, I think we blended very well.   
 Q.  Retief, your thoughts on the format now that we're two rounds into it, just kind of the unique twist that it's provided to be out here and have somebody to pull you along?  
RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, it's a great format.  I think the alternate-shot, maybe we can play -- we both tee off and pick the best one and play alternate from there or whatever you call that, shamble or whatever you want to call it.  But yeah, I think the better ball, the crowd loves it, too, because the guys are going tore it and they see a lot of birdies, guys hitting shots that they wouldn't normally maybe hit when they just play for themselves.  So it's a good fun format.  The alternate-shot, I think we've got to think about it.  But if we shoot 65 tomorrow, I think we'll take it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT