BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 25, 2008
Retief Goosen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. On the back nine you fired five birdies and you shoot up the leaderboard today with a 66. What happened there?
 RETIEF GOOSEN: The greens rolled much better today. The bit of rain seemed to help them a little bit. Yeah, I got off to a great start and birdied two of the first three holes. Then unfortunately I couldn't finish it. 

 Q. Are you letting it happen now out there where you were maybe trying to work it too hard early in the week?
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Well, you know, I've never done well around this course here, and I'm just happy to be here on the weekend. Yeah, sort of yesterday played well in the wind and today I played really well and made a few putts. 
 It's been a great event. Obviously BMW puts up a great event for us here. You know, the weather is nice now, so overall, an exciting week I think for everybody. 

 Q. But do you take solace, consolation, pride in the fact that you've recovered from being 6-over at one stage on day two to actually be up on the leaderboard? 
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, that's true. I was going home at one stage but I didn't feel like I was playing as bad as I was scoring and suddenly on the back nine on Friday I started making a few putts and today I made a few putts despite a poor finish. It would have been nice with three holes left, I thought I could possibly maybe finish at nine or ten. 
 Disappointing finish, but happy overall. I don't normally make the cut at Wentworth.

 Q. It's not the first time you've shown this resilience from a relatively poor start by your standards. 
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, I don't know what it is about me and this course. It's a good golf course. I just never seem to -- I think this is my first cut I've made in the last four starts or something. It's nice to be here, and, you know, I'm sure I'll squeeze a top 20 or something by the end of the day, and the guys are playing fairly well out there today. Scoring conditions is good. 

 Q. You were putting the pressure on at the end. 
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, 17 is playing tough and I missed the fairway and 18, I missed the fairway so never gave myself a chance to reach in two and paid the price.

 Q. How do you feel your game is generally in terms of U.S. Open coming up? 
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Pretty good. I have a nice week off now this week and then back to the States playing Memphis and then the U.S. Open. And then I'll be back for Munich, so I'm looking forward to the next few events. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT