WGC CA CHAMPIONSHIP
March 24, 2008
Retief Goosen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Talk about how it feels to finish -- your first Top 10 in a while.  How does it feel to finish so well? 
 RETIEF GOOSEN:  Yeah, it's nice to get the game going a little bit.  I got off to a slow start in the first round, and then from the second nine holes in the second round I started making a few putts and hitting it a bit closer.  Obviously yesterday's round was the round that got me in contention.  You know, it's a pity I couldn't have had just one shot better, but overall very happy. 

 Q.  This has to be a good finish going into Augusta, especially considering how well you played. 
 RETIEF GOOSEN:  Yes, definitely.  It's nice to -- this was my fifth event in a row, and I was determined to keep going to get my game in shape.  You know, I don't like to practice a lot, so I felt playing a lot was the only way to get my game back into shape. 
 Definitely the putting has improved a lot and the chipping.  I still need to work on the driving a little bit, but overall things are getting pretty good.  I'm looking forward to the Masters. 

 Q.  What's your schedule from now up until The Masters as far as preparation? 
 RETIEF GOOSEN:  Tavistock Cup this afternoon, and then New Orleans.  I play New Orleans, and then a week off and then The Masters. 

 Q.  Do you allow yourself to play the what-if game looking back over the four days? 
 RETIEF GOOSEN:  Well, yeah, everybody says that.  "What if" doesn't count in this game, it's either in or out. 
 Pretty happy overall.  CA has put on a great event here.  We had lots of delays, we had lots of lunches, so it's been a long week. 

 Q.  What's been the difference this week versus -- you pretty much keep this week -- you've been going through some struggles.  What was the key and the biggest difference this week? 
 RETIEF GOOSEN:  It's consistency and putting definitely.  I changed my putting a little bit about three weeks ago, and then last week at Bay Hill actually started to putt a little bit better.  You know, if you can make putts, you can score, and that's what I did this week.  I made a few good putts but just came up one short, really. 

 Q.  You've been working with Gregor for a while now real hard.  What have you been working on and how did you get in a bad shot? 
 RETIEF GOOSEN:  Well, it's really just -- the backswing was a little bit across the line at the top, so we're trying to get that a little bit more in line.  Putting stroke, I've tried to go back to the way I was putting in 2001, 2003, somewhere around there, so trying to change back to that.  Yeah, it's helped, definitely, with the putting.  It's nice to see the ball going in the hole again. 

 Q.  Were you able to sort of project what you needed to do today, or was it sort of a free-for-all with all the big names? 
 RETIEF GOOSEN:  I knew about 6-under was probably going to win it, but with the delay everybody was sort of out of rhythm a little bit.  Nobody really got into some sort of rhythm like Steve Stricker did. 
 So yeah, two shots better would have won it for me. 

 Q.  Do you practice for Augusta as far as the golf course? 
 RETIEF GOOSEN:  Yeah, I definitely do some practicing. 

 Q.  What's different about your practice and preparation for the next two weeks? 
 RETIEF GOOSEN:  Well, I'll be playing a lot of these sort of bump-and-run shots around Lake Nona because you're going to have that a lot at Augusta, and I'll be playing a lot.  I'll try and get nine or 18 holes in every day. 

 Q.  Are you glad to see someone other than Tiger win? 
 RETIEF GOOSEN:  Well, we are glad, yes.  I'm sure the media is not glad, but we as players, it's nice to see somebody else lift a trophy for a change. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT