OMEGA MISSION HILLS WORLD CUP
November 24, 2007
Retief Goosen
Trevor Immelman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Give me the verdict on the day and presumably the satisfaction in holing that one at the last. 
 RETIEF GOOSEN:  Yeah, we finally found a hole on the green.  It was disappointing; we only birdied the par 5s today, with 2-putt birdies, really. 
 So between the two of us, we didn't really make any putts.  And hit a terrible putt on 17, so it could have been a nice finish.  But I think we're two behind now, so hopefully we'll stay that way, and then there's a lot to play for tomorrow. 

 Q.  Anything to do with the conditions, as well, the wind was a bit trickier than it was on the opening day in fourballs? 
 TREVOR IMMELMAN:  Yeah, the wind was blowing a little harder to start.  You know, it kind of calmed down a little bit toward the end.  Retief played fantastic golf today and just a few putts got away from him.  I couldn't get going at all.  Just kept hitting the greens and 2-putting, so I wasn't much of an inspiration out there. 
 You know, at least we're close and we've got a chance tomorrow. 

 Q.  In terms of inspiration, do you have to push each other up when things aren't quite working? 
 RETIEF GOOSEN:  Yeah, sometimes you probably can and other times, it's better just to get on with it.  Even at times when we both were reading the putts, we seemed to miss it.  So then it's a little bit -- then you know you've got it tough. 
 Anyway, two behind, foursomes tomorrow, you know, anything can happen in foursomes.  You need to play well, both players, and if you can get on a roll with the two of you, you catch up ground pretty quick in foursomes. 

 Q.  Does it help that the two of you have experience of winning this event? 
 TREVOR IMMELMAN:  I'm sure it will help coming down the stretch.  We both know how to get it done, and obviously Retief has won many tournaments all over the world, so it would be nice for me to be able to lean on him for that tomorrow.  As long as we play well, we'll have a chance. 

 Q.  Is that putting the pressure on you? 
 RETIEF GOOSEN:  There's pressure on both players.  We both need to get out there and do our thing tomorrow from the first hole onwards, you know, get in a good groove and just see what happens. 

 Q.  I take it this does still mean an awful lot to you, otherwise you wouldn't be here, but both having won it in the past, and you would have been forgiven for having somebody else have a go. 
 RETIEF GOOSEN:  Well, we've got nothing else to do.  Ernie and Rory Sabbatini, they were really in front us in the World Rankings, but they obviously have got other commitments.  So me and Trevor were next in line, so, yeah, we took the chance.  We definitely would like to come out here tomorrow, you know, and we would love to get a good round in and see what happens. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT