OMEGA MISSION HILLS WORLD CUP
November 23, 2007
Retief Goosen
Trevor Immelman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Your thoughts on the day?   
 TREVOR IMMELMAN:  It was very up-and-down, especially our front nine.  Every time we made a birdie, we bogeyed the next hole.  We were kind of spinning our wheels there, which was a little disappointing.  And then we caught a little bit of momentum on the back side and Retief holed a great putt on 17 that really jumped us on.  But we got a terrible lie just a foot off the fairway on 18 and had to lay up and my putt didn't turn.  So a little disappointing to finish with a five, by I think all in all, a 69 is not too bad today.   
  
  Q.  How does foursomes compare with the four-balls of the opening day?   
 RETIEF GOOSEN:  Tough.  Very tough.  You never seem to get in any sort of rhythm, you know.  You might hit only one shot in two holes, you know, so it's quite difficult to get sort of settled down into a groove.   
  
  Q.  It must be difficult to play alternate shots like that because you just can't get that pattern going, can you?   
 TREVOR IMMELMAN:  Yeah, for sure obviously you don't want to let your partner down.  It's a little different if it's your own ball, because if you hit it in the trouble, you have to deal with it. But it's not a good feeling when you hit a bad shot and then he's got to deal with the consequences.  So, you know, that's obviously in the back of your mind.  And I think you've just got to knuckle down and let it go and hopefully it all works out.   
  
  Q.  Still, I take it there are no recriminations; no one says sorry, you just get on with the game.   
 RETIEF GOOSEN:  No, obviously every player tries his best and try to hit a good shot.  And it's only round two.  It looks like we are two or three behind, so hopefully, you know, tomorrow we are obviously going to need a low one in the better ball and then see what happens on Sunday.   
  
  Q.  Come what may, in a good position?   
 TREVOR IMMELMAN:  Yeah, I think we're in a great position.  I think we've got to try and make up the ground tomorrow and go into Sunday, you know, at least tied or one behind or even ahead if possible.   
  
  Q.  What are your impressions of Mission Hills on a return like this when it's all developed from the last visit?   
 RETIEF GOOSEN:  Yeah, last time they were still working on the hotel.  It's great.  Obviously it's amazing what they have done here, and the area itself, with how much it's grown.  Yeah, we can see it by the people coming out to watch that golf is growing quickly in China.   
  
  Q.  Has that been a marked difference with the people on the course to watch the World Cup?   
 RETIEF GOOSEN:  Yeah, last time it was a total different crowd.  I mean, they had no clue what was going on and picking up balls and all that kind of stuff.  So it was a mess, but now most of them are coming out do know the game.   
  
  Q.  Your first impressions, positive ones?   
 TREVOR IMMELMAN:  Yeah, I think this is a fantastic development here.  The Chu family has done an incredible job with everything, all of the structures and the design of the golf courses and everything.  It's been a great week for us and I'd love to come back.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT