OMEGA MISSION HILLS WORLD CUP
November 21, 2007
Retief Goosen
Trevor Immelman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  How do you see this place growing 12, years on? 
 RETIEF GOOSEN:  Well, obviously in '95, there was nothing out here.  They were just trying to complete the hotel at that time.  I remember, you know, some rooms didn't have beds in it; some rooms didn't have TVs in it; it was very close.  And there was nothing between here and the airport. Now obviously it's a whole new city, Mission Hills, everything around it is huge now and you've got 12 golf courses and how many clubhouses.  So it's obviously a big resort now. 
 Obviously Dr. Chu saw what could happen in this area, and you know, he's done a lot for golf in China. 

 Q.  On the event this week, 28 teams and some of the best players in the world, as one of the top contenders this week, you guys would be fancying your chances here? 
 RETIEF GOOSEN:  Well, I hope so, yeah.  If I can find some game, you know. I feel like I'm playing okay, and Trevor has obviously played nicely last week so his game is coming around nicely.  Hopefully, yeah, we can combine well this week. 

 Q.  How do you assess your year that you've had, 2007? 
 RETIEF GOOSEN:  It's been very up-and-down.  Been struggling a bit with some of the swing changes and swing feelings I'm trying to work on.  You know, the beginning of the year was pretty good at the Masters and Qatar and so on, but this year has been a bit up and down. 

 Q.  Towards the end of the year, a couple more events for you? 
 RETIEF GOOSEN:  Yeah, I've got two more in South Africa, the Million Dollar and the South African Open.  So not finished yet. 

 Q.  Would be nice to end on a high note. 
 RETIEF GOOSEN:  Yeah, that would be great, if me and Trevor could play well this week and have a chance on Sunday to win, yeah, and then obviously the next two events would be nice to see if we could play well there, too. 

 Q. Good comments for the golf course? 
 RETIEF GOOSEN:  Yeah, there's some great holes out there, especially on the back nine, there's a lot of really good holes.  The back nine, evidently the more difficult nine of the two.  But yeah, it's going to be tricky, and then the greens are firming up.  Lots of slope on the greens, so it's not going to be easy to make lots of putts. I don't expect too low of scoring around here, especially in the foursomes. 

 Q.  Saying that you've had an up-and-down year, has it been frustrating for you, or have you taken it in stride knowing that you're making changes in the game? 
 RETIEF GOOSEN:  Well, yeah, it's been frustrating, as well, as knowing that you're going through a few changes.  We always would like things to happen immediately and it hasn't.  It's been frustrating, yes.  And I've dropped back in the World Rankings, but hopefully next year will be a good year. 

 Q.  Not a reflection of where you want to be in the World Rankings, is it. 
 RETIEF GOOSEN:  No, and I've not been putting as well as I should.  I feel like I'm starting to hit the ball better so I've giving myself more opportunities for birdies.  I just need to get to make them now. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT