PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 18, 2007
Retief Goosen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Are you pleased with your start?   
 RETIEF GOOSEN:  Yes, obviously, 7-under, you're four off the lead, it's not too pretty.  But got off to a good start, so hopefully I can build on that for the rest of the week.   
  
  Q.  Martin obviously got off to a fantastic start.  What do you feel like when you've shot 65 and you're four behind; it's strange, isn't it?   
 RETIEF GOOSEN:  Yeah, the course is starting to change a bit now with the breeze picking up, too.  Obviously it looks like you're going to have to shoot 20-under or something this weekend.  I left a couple of shots out there but pretty happy.   
  
  Q.  What was your main thought today?  Did you have a swing thought for today?   
 RETIEF GOOSEN:  Not really.  I felt like I was hitting the ball well the last few weeks, Presidents Cup, and even in The Match Play, even though I lost in The Match Play, I was hitting the ball pretty well.  It was just a matter of putting and today a made a few good putts.   
  
  Q.  The swings that you've been very famous for, winning the U.S. Open, this is a totally different course; how do you go about playing it differently?   
 RETIEF GOOSEN:  Well, there's a few wide open holes and feel like I can whack it a bit.  The back nine has a lot of water on it so you need to be hitting it straight.   
  
  Q.  65, nice round out there today, how does it feel?   
 RETIEF GOOSEN:  Not as good as the 11-under round, but no, it's nice to get off to a good start.  Hopefully he doesn't keep playing the way he's been playing and we can somehow catch up.   
 It's nice to get off to a good round and sort of feel like you have a bit of a chance going in the next few rounds.   
  
  Q.  During the round, you're out there, 4-under through the first nine, start picking up a couple more on the back nine, your front nine, are you thinking about what you have to do to keep up?   
 RETIEF GOOSEN:  That's true, I left a few short birdie putts out there, 14 and 8.  So, you know, there's a few shots I left out there.   
 But overall, I'm very happy with the round.  Played pretty solid and lots of birdie putts.   
  
  Q.  You have a renowned putting stroke; on greens like this, when you feel like you have a good read you should make it every time?   
 RETIEF GOOSEN:  Yeah, the greens are rolling true.  They are not really quick, as well, so they are a good pace and you can give it a good 'ol roll at the hole.  There was absolutely no wind this morning as well, so scoring conditions were perfect.   
 It's picking up a bit now, but I'm sure we're going to get the breeze tomorrow, as well.   
  
  Q.  You're not doing any type of wind dance or the guys in the afternoon, are you?   
 RETIEF GOOSEN:  I'm not.  I'm going to go back to the hotel and relax and watch the guys on TV.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT