WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 21, 2007
Retief Goosen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Good win today.  How did you play?   
 RETIEF GOOSEN:  I played well today, I must say.  I was probably 6-under par or something, so I played very well.  I was 6-under through I don't know how many holes.  I drove the ball very well from the first tee shot on, I hit it down the middle.  I missed two fairways and they both were 3-wood, so my driving was very good.   
  
  Q.  You had an eagle in the first few holes?   
 RETIEF GOOSEN:  I had an eagle on I think it's No. 10, the par 5.  I hit a nice drive down there and a soft 4-iron into about 40 feet and holed a good putt.   
  
  Q.  What are your thoughts on the course?   
 RETIEF GOOSEN:  The course is great.  Obviously conditions today was perfect.  There was a few pins out that it was right on the edge from rolling off the green, but you're going to have to play well to win.  It's not that sort of golf course that just an average round is going to make you win.  You're going to have to get a low one out there to win.   
  
  Q.  Is it a thinking golfer's golf course?   
 RETIEF GOOSEN:  Yeah, I mean, driving is quite generous comparing to the past one, but the greens are the tricky part.  Your iron play needs to be perfect this week.  If you miss it on the wrong side, you've got not much of a chance.  You're going to leave yourself a few scary putts on these greens.   
  
  Q.  Fairly slick are they?   
 RETIEF GOOSEN:  Today they're getting a little more slick, but the pins are really on the edge.  If you're putting from a long way, you can putt it off the green quite easy.   
  
  Q.  What about the match play format?  Do you enjoy it compared to stroke play?   
 RETIEF GOOSEN:  Yes, I do.  Obviously it's different.  It's a strain, but somebody has to lose, and you can play a good round of golf and lose and not really get anything out of it.   
 There's no sort of "I can recover tomorrow."  You've got to play well at the moment and hope you play better than the other guy.   
  
  Q.  It's the classic take-one-match-at-a-time scenario, isn't it?   
 RETIEF GOOSEN:  Yes.  I mean, you've got to just -- you can play any guy.   
 I mean, the course probably was a little bit too long for Scott today.  I drove it very long so I had a lot of short irons into the greens.  I'm hitting 8-iron, he's probably hitting 5-iron.   
  
  Q.  Trevor had an early finish, too, 6 and 5, and Ernie lost.   
 RETIEF GOOSEN:  I saw Ernie was a couple down after nine holes or something.  It's a shame he's lost.  Trevor obviously must have played really well or the other guy struggled.   
  
  Q.  I think Thomas played pretty badly actually.   
 RETIEF GOOSEN:  Yeah, Thomas probably had a stiff neck.   
  
  Q.  Just finally another point of view, can you just give me a line in terms of how important it is to support golf down at the grass-roots level?   
 RETIEF GOOSEN:  Yeah, I mean, Rolex has been such a great sponsor of golf for such a long time.  They've been a great sponsor of mine for probably five years or so, a bit longer.  It's a nice brand to have behind you.  Obviously, yeah, junior golf -- like I said, they help buy and sell golf and obviously sailing.   
  
  Q.  So important for the next generation coming through?   
 RETIEF GOOSEN:  Yeah, you can see Trevor is slightly kicking me and Ernie's ass, so hopefully he can get something going this week.   
  
  Q.  Finally, anybody in the field you particularly want to avoid?   
 RETIEF GOOSEN:  Well, all of them (laughing).  You know, just get to the final.  I'm obviously going to play between Niclas and Joe Durant.  I don't know how the match is doing.  They're pretty square.  It's going to be a good match again tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT