THE COMMERCIAL BANK QATAR MASTERS
January 26, 2007
Retief Goosen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   RETIEF GOOSEN:  Much better driving today. I hit 11 fairways which was not bad. Just didn't do it on the front nine, which was my back nine. Couldn't get it going there.   
  
  Q.  What were the conditions like?   
 RETIEF GOOSEN:  It was very cold this morning. The first few holes played very long. I got off to a nice start with a  birdie on the tenth which settled me down a little. Conditions were very similar to yesterday.   
  
  Q.  Are the swing changes on your mind?   
 RETIEF GOOSEN:  You still think about them. Today was much better off the tee. Drive it well but struggling on the par fives. I am only two under for those.   
  
  Q.  Why the decision to go with Gregor Jamieson?   
 RETIEF GOOSEN:  I just felt I needed to do something different. I was struggling so much I felt I could either get worse or get better. At the moment it is getting better which is good. Just very simple things. There is not a lot to change, just a few things we are working on.   
  
  Q.  How are you feeling about the prospects for the weekend?   
 RETIEF GOOSEN:  I will be somewhere around tied for the lead by the end of the day. Just get a good round in tomorrow and hopefully make a few putts.   
  
  Q.  Birdies dried up on the back nine?   
 RETIEF GOOSEN:  I birdied the second but then lost my concentration on the fifth. I wasn't quite ready to hit the shot, hit it fat and it came up short. Hit a good putt but jutst mis read it. Suddenly I was  not making anything but there are 36 holes left and a lot of golf to be played.   
  
  Q.  The driving the most pleasing aspect?   
 RETIEF GOOSEN:  I drove it solidly today and hit a lot of good drives. Only three fairways missed. Still struggling on the par fives but I have given myself some birdie chances.   
  
  Q.  How close is your game to where you feel it should be?   
 RETIEF GOOSEN:  There is a still a fair way to go. I am seeing Gregor in a couple of weeks time when I go back to the States. Overall I feel what we are trying to do is working so see how it goes.   
  
  Q.  You have a bit of a gap over some of the big names here like Ernie and Sergio?   
 RETIEF GOOSEN:  36 holes left and a lot can happen. Five shot behind is nothing that serious with 36 holes to go.   
 10 - Driver, laid up, sand iron to 3 ft   
 12 - driver, 9 iron to 3 ft   
 16 - 3 wood on left edge, chip to ten feet.   
 17 - 9 iron to five feet   
 2 - driver sand iron to 20 ft.   
 5 - hit it fat, chip and two putt   
 8 - straight downhill and not expecting to hit it short. 9 hit a poor wedge and seventh I had a chance there and lipped out so overall it could have been another low round but we will leave those for the weekend.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT