HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 9, 2006
Retief Goosen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
RETIEF GOOSEN:  It's nice to get off to a good round.  It was a disappointing round at the end really, 4 under, bad bogey on the last.  But you know, I got a good round, also.  You don't want to shoot a bad round in the first round and sort of feel like you're out of the tournament.  So off to a good round and hopefully not too far behind by today and then build on that.
Q.  Coming off the back of a good result last week at Atlanta.
RETIEF GOOSEN:  Yeah, I'm hitting the ball well.  I didn't hit it that well on the front nine which is my back nine.  I played the back nine pretty solid besides 15 where I miss hit my second shot into the trap.  Then the front nine was a bit scrambly I should say and 3 putted off the last green from about 50 feet away.
Q.  Even though the conditions are better, is it tougher than last year?
RETIEF GOOSEN:  I didn't play last year, but according to everybody, it is.  The greens are definitely much firmer.  With long irons, they are releasing a good ten yards.  So it not easy to get it close on some of these holes.
Q.  (Do you feel you have yourself in position with this strong field?)
RETIEF GOOSEN:  Yeah, obviously a bit stronger field this week.  Yeah, if I can keep playing well, I can give myself a chance come Sunday.
Q.  Your pick for the Goodwill, how did that come about?
RETIEF GOOSEN:  Peter is a good player, but there's a lot of players that we asked that didn't want to play, and there was a few players that had other arrangements as well.  There's the Australian Open and then you have the Dunlop Phoenix.  So a lot of guys wasn't prepared to do that Monday and Tuesday, and Peter was prepared and I think he was a good pick.  I think we'll probably stick the two together on Monday.
Q.  Do you know him well?
RETIEF GOOSEN:  Yeah, I know him well, good player, good competitor.  He's a good pick.

I'm sure me and Monty will be out there playing.  It's going to be good fun.  We'll see how it works out.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT