DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 3, 2006
Retief Goosen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








RODDY WILLIAMS:  Nice way to celebrate your birthday sitting on top of the leaderboard and fine way to finish the round as well.
RETIEF GOOSEN:  Yes, got off to a very slow start on the front nine and made a good birdie down 5 and 8.  So sort of got me going again.

Yeah, 16 I made a good birdie and 18 I was a little bit on the lucky side.  My second, I didn't think it was going to make it but it crawled over the water and made a nice putt.  I was in between a 4 iron or a 3 iron and thought to go to a softer 3 and didn't quite catch it.  Lucky I went with that one I suppose and just cleared the water.
Q.  How long was the putt on 18, and what are you planning to do tonight for your birthday?
RETIEF GOOSEN:  The putt was probably 20 feet.  It was a big breaking putt, probably a yard and a half break on it.  It was nice to roll that one in.

Tonight, I don't know, I think I'm going to have an early night.  I didn't sleep well last night.  One of my children was in a car accident yesterday with the nanny, so luckily everybody is okay.  But didn't sleep all that great last night.  But tonight, I'll catch up on some sleep and get ready for tomorrow.
Q.  Was that because you were not quite aware of how bad the accident was or were you aware straightaway that everyone was fine?
RETIEF GOOSEN:  No, everybody was fine.  But still, it's not nice    even when both cars are all right, a little bump.  It was something I was a bit worried about.
Q.  Who was driving the car?
RETIEF GOOSEN:  The nanny was driving it.
Q.  And was it on the main road?
RETIEF GOOSEN:  Yeah, it was on the A30 in London.
Q.  How is your child?
RETIEF GOOSEN:  No, no, everybody is fine.  Like I say, luckily no injuries to anybody.  So that's luckily    and they were all in a good car.  So that's the main key.
Q.  What time did you sort of get the call about the accident?
RETIEF GOOSEN:  It was only last night that my wife told me about the accident; lunchtime it happened.  But it's okay, nobody likes being in an accident.  Luckily everybody is all breathing.
Q.  Getting back to golf, you must be pleased to be in this position, first tournament of the year?
RETIEF GOOSEN:  Yeah, I am.  Like I say, the swing doesn't feel all that good out there, I'm hitting it a bit sideways, struggling a bit at the moment.  The back nine I hit a few good tee shots, which was nice and gave me a bit of confidence going into tomorrow.

Still putting well.  The greens got a bit crusty and difficult this afternoon.  It was a bit more difficult to make putts and I wasn't quite hitting it as close as I did yesterday.
RODDY WILLIAMS:  Thank you very much.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT