THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2015
Retief Goosen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Talk about your day today.RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, it was a bit disappointing finish.  I would have liked to have maybe finished at 10 or maybe had a chance to go to 11, but hit a poor putt for par on 17, and 18 I was in an old divot off the tee, and I couldn't make good contact.  But got away with a par.  But yeah, three, four shots off the lead going into tomorrow so good place to be.Q. How much of a role will past major experience play tomorrow?RETIEF GOOSEN: Well, you know, you've still got to hit the shots.  It doesn't matter -- look at the amateur, how well he's doing.  He's got no experience.  At the end of the day, you've got to hit the shots.  It doesn't matter how experienced you are.  But the knowledge of the course and the little breaks that are on this golf course, although this year there's been a few flags that we've not normally seen, so the breaks are a little bit -- not something you're used to.Q. Talk us through the eagle putt.RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, where that pin was today you couldn't get it anywhere near the flag anyway.  I hit a good drive and hit a 4-iron to that position, which is exactly where I was trying to hit it, and hitting the putt, it looked like it was going to stop just short, but somehow it got there.  But yeah, it was nice to go for the eagle-birdie run there, and then unfortunately my putter went dry on me.  But hopefully tomorrow is the warm day.Q. What was it like out there today?  What were conditions like?RETIEF GOOSEN: I mean, you know, it was perfect.  The back nine the wind started blowing on and off again, which makes it cold, and these last few holes are playing pretty long.Q. You've been struggling for a while.  How important is a showing this week for you going forward?RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, it's been a struggle, but I can't complain.  I'm feeling great.  I have no back pain.  I'd rather play bad golf and have no back pain than good golf and back pain and not being able to sleep or anything else.  I've had a good run in my career, but it's nice to be up there and hopefully have a good day tomorrow, see where we end up.Q. Does it sort of revitalise your love of the game, being able to play like this?RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, it does, but it's also frustrating because you know how you can play, and when you're not playing the way you know you can play, it can get frustrating and it makes you want to stop and relax for a few years and go to the seniors.  But at the moment, you know, the last few weeks I actually felt like I was playing okay, but I just didn't make anything on the greens, so hopefully tomorrow is the day we make everything.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT