U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 18, 2005
Retief Goosen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
Fantastic job.
 RETIEF GOOSEN:  Yeah, obviously you'll take a finish like that around this course.  I had a bad hiccup in the middle of the round, 12 and 13.  But I got off to a good finish, which is nice.
Q.  How do you bounce back so quickly from that?  You went birdie, birdie after that?
 RETIEF GOOSEN:  Well, you've just got to accept that on this course that's going to happen.  Very quickly I    on 13 I hit a 3 wood in the rough and really had a poor lie, expecting that the sand wedge is just going to get me to the front edge and it came out flying, went over the back.  And from there I knew 5 was a good score and I ended up making 6.

The next hole I hit a good 6 iron out of the bunker and made a good putt, so at least I had a nice finish and good confidence going into tomorrow.

I drove the ball pretty well on the front nine but didn't drive it well on the back nine.  I have to work on a couple of things quickly after that.
Q.  Are you surprised that you're the only player after 54 under par here?
 RETIEF GOOSEN:  Well, we said at the beginning of the week we probably expect nobody to be under par.  Yeah, I'll go out and play solid tomorrow, I suppose I have a good chance.  It's not easy to make up ground on this course, it's easy to lose ground.  I don't know what the weather is going to be like tomorrow.  But if I just keep playing solid, probably shoot 1  or 2 over, I can probably win.
Q.  Coming into those final few holes, was there a part of you that really was relishing the opportunity to maybe give yourself a few stroke lead, considering how difficult it will be to make up ground tomorrow?
 RETIEF GOOSEN:  Yeah, after I hit a good shot out of the bunker on 14, I felt like if I can finish with a couple of birdies, that will be great.  And I was determined to do that and made a couple of good putts coming in.  Obviously 18 was one of those you're trying to get close and just crept in.  But I missed one on 17, but I'm pretty happy with the round.
Q.  Tiger says his resume gives him a lot of confidence on Sunday in a major.  Where you can draw back upon what you've done in the past and maybe give you that little bit of something extra?  Do you feel a sense of that, also?
 RETIEF GOOSEN:  Yeah, I think so, definitely.  I actually felt pretty good out there today.  I felt more relaxed today than I did yesterday, so that's good.  In a way I probably felt a bit too relaxed in the middle of the round and sort of lost a bit of concentration.  But coming down the stretch I played well.  Like I say, I just need to hit a few more fairways.
Q.  Are you at all surprised to see an unknown like Gore still hanging in there, second place?
 RETIEF GOOSEN:  Well, I don't really know his game, I don't know much about him.  But obviously he knows how to play.  And Olin played very well today; he kept hanging in there.  There's probably ten guys that are in there with a shot.  It really all depends on what I do tomorrow.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT