NORTHERN TRUST OPEN
February 22, 2015
Retief Goosen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Obviously it was a difficult golf course today.   Where did you feel like you kind of lost the‑‑  
RETIEF GOOSEN:   My driving was poor, and obviously 13 was the killer.   My hand got wet in the rain there and I should have backed off and dried, but I continued to hit and caught it off the toe and snap‑hooked and couldn't end up any worse.   
But, you know, was still really in the hunt, thinking about it now.   I hit a good bogey putt, and the next one I hit a good putt, the next one I hit a good putt.   I hit good putts, just didn't make anything except the last two holes.   
Yeah, I'm kicking myself, that's for sure.   That was an opportunity missed, and we'll move on.   It won't be a nice pill to swallow but that's just the way this game is.   
   
 Q.   Can you still take some positives from this?  
RETIEF GOOSEN:   Yeah, it was nice to be sort of in the hunt again.   Unfortunately, like I say, just three holes really, I lost the tournament.   It's disappointing.   Would have been nice coming up the last having a chance.   
   
 Q.   I think you birdied the first to go to nine‑‑  
RETIEF GOOSEN:   I was 9‑under through six.   Mental error on 7 and 8.   Wrong clubs into to the green there.   So, you know, cost me three shots.   
   
 Q.   Did you think at the beginning of the day that six would be a playoff?   
RETIEF GOOSEN:   No, I thought 8‑under was going to be the score really.   But, yeah, it shows you, those holes there at the back nine into that rain play tough.   
   
 Q.   Sometimes when you have a good tournament but don't win, you can ride that, and the next week, next two weeks, the same guys are on the board again.   How do you feel coming out of this after what happened?   
RETIEF GOOSEN:   Yeah, something positive to take to next week.   But also something negative.   I would have rather gone into next week with a win.   But I can just, you know, continue to work away.   But I'm going to need to work on my driving the next few days.   Next week, you need to drive it pretty good.   So I need to find, really, what was going on.   I sort of really lost it out there a little bit.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT