WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 26, 2005
Retief Goosen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Bad luck?
RETIEF GOOSEN:   Well no, not really, I didn't play well at all this afternoon. I got off to a reasonable start but after that I struggled with my irons really. This morning I wasn't really hitting it all that good either with my iron play and I couldn't hit it near enough to the flags this afternoon to make the putts.
Q. So were you surprised to be three up early on then?
RETIEF GOOSEN:  Yes, like I said, I got off to a good start but I knew there was a long way to go and the first few holes are pretty easy playing down wind and like I say, from about number seven onwards I started hitting pretty bad iron shots and I was struggling to keep it on the golf course. If you do that, you are going to struggle in the match.
Q. Was it fatigue?
RETIEF GOOSEN:  Well maybe a little, maybe I was starting to get a bit slack mentally. I haven't played for a long time and suddenly having to play so many rounds so close together, maybe my concentration did start to go a little bit, because I definitely did feel a lot fresher this morning than this afternoon.
Q. What did you think when your caddie volunteered to go up the tree?
RETIEF GOOSEN:  Well you have to take a chance, but hey, he said he wanted to go up, and if there was a chance of finding it, then why not?
Q. Would you sooner skip the third/fourth place match?
RETIEF GOOSEN:  Well now the wheels are a little flat and it is going to be tough to come out tomorrow and try and put something in. But third place is better than fourth so I will give it my best shot.
Q. Tell us about that final putt?
RETIEF GOOSEN:  Well it was a very simple putt, just off centre left putt and I pushed it. So maybe a  bit of a lack of concentration there, it was a bit of a surprise.
Q. Did you feel like the momentum was swinging your way when he missed the fairway at the 17th?
RETIEF GOOSEN:  Well I felt like I had a chance there but he hit a good pitch shot and holed a good putt and I messed up.
Q. Did you think about going back to the tee at the eighth?
RETIEF GOOSEN:  No. I didn't think it was worth it really. I might have made a six out of it but I didn't think it was worth it.
Q. Maybe if it wasn't your second round of the day, you might have?
RETIEF GOOSEN:  I suppose I could have gone back and given it a try, you never know, but there is no way you can reach the green with your second shot anyway so a six is probably as good as I could have done.
Q. Do you think they should just split the third prize, like they do with all the other rounds?
RETIEF GOOSEN:  No I think it is good to have a third and fourth place match and good that the final plays 36 and we play 18. I am looking forward to it and hopefully I can do well and at least finish third although today is disappointing.
Q. Have you played Ian before?
RETIEF GOOSEN:  I have played with him before but not in a match
Q. There are also the world ranking points to consider?
RETIEF GOOSEN:  Yes, it all adds up at the end of the year so I will be giving it my best try.
Q. How many are you playing in Florida?
RETIEF GOOSEN: I am playing Doral, Bay Hill, TPC and maybe BellSouth.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT