WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 26, 2005
Retief Goosen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.
Robert Allenby made it a little bit easier on you on the earlier holes.  My guess is you didn't want a close call like you had yesterday?
RETIEF GOOSEN:  I putted a lot better than I did in the first two rounds.  I drove the ball as well; I only missed one fairway.  I kept the ball in play.

But putting is what it's all about.  Robert didn't really make any putts.  I got off to a good start and got in front of him.
Q.  You missed the first fairway, but
RETIEF GOOSEN:  I missed the first fairway, but from there on I hit every fairway.  So if you can keep doing that, then you've got a chance.  You miss the fairways now, the rough being six inches deep, you've got no chance.
Q.  Robert said you drove well, you hit your irons well and you putted well; he said that pretty much covers it.
RETIEF GOOSEN:  I drove the ball well.  I wasn't playing my irons as well as I would have liked.  I holed a few good putts.  That's a little different compared to the first round.  So I didn't make anything but the greens; completely different than what they were the first round.  They're rolling pretty true now.
Q.  Did you feel any different yesterday?  You were 3 down against Chad after 10 or 11.  Do you change your approach tomorrow whether you're down or up?
RETIEF GOOSEN:  No, not really.  I admit that I wasn't really playing all that well, and then on the back I hit a couple of good shots and he hit a couple of bad shots and that turned it around for me.  So it can turn around so easy.

It wasn't over until it's over with Robert.  A couple of putts here and there, and we could have been 1 down or 1 up playing this hole.
Q.  What do you do now in between matches?
RETIEF GOOSEN:  Well, I'm going to go and just relax for about 30, 40 minutes and then go hit balls again and start over.
Q.  You haven't played of late.  Do you feel every day you're getting a little better and sharper as you've gone on this week?
RETIEF GOOSEN:  Yeah, I think so.  Especially today I felt like I was hitting the ball better.  I need to make up for the golf I haven't played in the last three months.  I'm making up for it now.  Still a couple of important rounds, three important rounds, hopefully.
Q.  Do you enjoy this match play?
RETIEF GOOSEN:  Yeah, I'm very happy to have gone this far.  Match play has never been really my strong point.  What's happening for me this week, I've had a few breaks, and that's what you need.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT