WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 24, 2005
Retief Goosen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
RETIEF GOOSEN:  I played fairly well.  I would say I played pretty good.  Obviously 17 I didn't play too well.
Q.  What happened on 17?
RETIEF GOOSEN:  I pulled my drive and hit it in the bunker on the left and caught a bad lie in the trap and didn't get it up‑and‑down.

But I think the greens have been a big problem I think for everybody today.  It's probably the worst greens I've putted on for a long time.  You've got absolutely no control over the run of the ball, especially these last few groups.
Q.  A lot of footprints and stuff?
RETIEF GOOSEN:  It's horrendous.  They're casting shadows, so big are these holes.  But anyway, the ones who win at the end of the day are 1‑under par, so that shows you me and Stephen actually made nothing up on the greens.  He probably didn't play as well as he'd like to have played but probably played better than me.  I just couldn't make the putts.
Q.  How did you get 2‑up?
RETIEF GOOSEN:  16 I made the second putt of the day.
Q.  How long was it?
RETIEF GOOSEN:  About a 20‑footer or so.  So that got me to 2‑up.  But the only bad mistake was on 17.

I only played three tournaments in three months.  I played at The Million Dollar in the beginning of December and two in Hawaii and last week didn't get a start.  But overall I have a really good game now.
Q.  A real disappointment what happened last week?
RETIEF GOOSEN:  Last week was one of those things.  Unfortunately I was asleep and got to the golf course 20 minutes late for our group time.  So that was a bit hard.  But if that's the rule, they're going to be looking at it to see if there can be at least one exemption.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
RETIEF GOOSEN:  Yeah, I don't think it's that good for the tournament, either.  But a rule is a rule.
Q.  Have you looked ahead to tomorrow?
RETIEF GOOSEN:  I don't know who I'm playing.  I haven't even looked, no.
Q.  It must be good to get through this first round.  Everybody says this first round could be the one that gets you.
RETIEF GOOSEN:  I'm playing a golf course I'm particularly comfortable on, but you never know.  Maybe this year, who knows, it's a good golf course, you just can't make anything on the greens.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT