BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
August 26, 2004
Retief Goosen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Welcome, Retief Goosen.  You had five weeks of no golf, injured, and you are now back on track and back on the course with a 6-under.  You must be happy today.
RETIEF GOOSEN:  Yeah, very much so.  It was difficult the first few holes this morning after the rain and cold and wait and being windy and everything.  I started with a bogey on the 10th hole, and then made a nice birdie on the second.  Sort of settled me down a bit and got onto a nice roll.
Q.  How much time did you lose because of the injury?
RETIEF GOOSEN:  Yeah, the last time I played was the British Open, which is five weeks ago, or, I don't know, longer.  The actual injury itself is now four weeks that it's happened.  So I haven't hit any golf balls for five weeks till last weekend was the first time I tried to hit a few balls, and I played six holes on Saturday to see how it feels walking.

It's still hurting a little bit walking.  Especially yesterday in the Pro-Am when I finished, I was pretty tired and sore.  But with good rest last night, today was a little bit easier walking around the course.  But, you know, you're playing this well, sort of keeps your mind on the game, really.

I'm really surprised I'm hitting the ball quite well, actually.  I expected it to be a bit worse than the way I hit it, but today I hit it nice and solid.  Only missed a few fairways and putted really nicely.
Q.  Since you're not involved, do you feel the effect of the Ryder Cup on this tournament; do you notice it?
RETIEF GOOSEN:  Not really.  I think you'll notice it on the players that's in the hunt.  Look at the way they are scoring out there today and see if they are going to cope with the pressure.  There's so many guys that's up there that can get in or just go out, so it's going to be an exciting week in that way.

But, you know I'm here to play this tournament and try to play well, and hopefully I can win the event and lucky that the Ryder Cup doesn't have anything to do with me.
Q.  While you have a pretty good score, how do you like the course, and where do you see the difficulties of the course?
RETIEF GOOSEN:  This morning it played much longer than it did yesterday.  Especially the first nine which was our back nine when it was raining and windy.  It was pretty cold.  So it played much longer than yesterday.

But you know, the course is very punishing.  If you hit in the rough, most of the time you can't get on to the green.  The course is set up very well.  The guy that wins this week will have played very well to win.
Q.  Do you feel that the fairways are smaller, that they cut them down a little bit?
RETIEF GOOSEN:  Yeah, they have certainly narrowed the fairways up a little bit from when I played here three or four years ago.  It's definitely narrower and thicker, so that's a big difference.  With these conditions today, it's probably the toughest this course has played.
THE MODERATOR:  Being here in Munich, Retief, do you have any other plans to go to theatres or have some spare time besides golf?
RETIEF GOOSEN:  Well, the weather is pretty bad, so unfortunately, I think Beer Gardens are out of the question.  But I wouldn't mind going down to the Beer Gardens one afternoon and having a relaxed day.  I suppose today is about my only chance.  But I'm a little bit tired, so I think I'd rather just go and rest this afternoon and get ready for tomorrow.
THE MODERATOR:  Well, as the weather forecast is better for the next days, we wish you all the best.  Good luck for the next rounds and thank you for coming here.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT