NORTHERN TRUST OPEN
February 20, 2015
Retief Goosen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Quite a birdie on the last hole, a 30‑footer to give you the lead. 
RETIEF GOOSEN:   Yeah that was a pretty good bonus.   I got a read from Vijay's put.   He was putting on the same line as mine.   Bonus it went in.   Wasn't a very good shot in there with a sand wedge into the green, but it's a tough hole there.   Any time I birdie on that hole is good.

Q.   You did a good job scrambling, six of eight par saves today?
RETIEF GOOSEN:   I didn't hit the ball as good as I hit it yesterday definitely.   Today was a little bit scrambling with everything really but I got it up‑and‑down quite a few times, and that kept the round going. 

Q.   I thought the golf course really firmed up.   A couple of U.S. Open championships; are we approaching major championship conditions with these putting surfaces? 
RETIEF GOOSEN:   Yeah, they are definitely firming up, that's for sure.   Some of the holes, you know, on No. 7, I hit a sand wedge in there for at least 20 yards.   They are getting pretty firm on some of these places, yes. 

Q.   How much local knowledge and veterans experience will come into play this weekend?   Because the greens are only going to get firmer I suppose?
RETIEF GOOSEN:   That's right, yeah, and they might get a bit of rain on Sunday, who knows.   But yeah, if it continues to be like this, it's only going to get tougher.   There's going to be some tougher pins out there, and par will be a good score on a lot of these holes.   Good what's the biggest test right now out there? 
RETIEF GOOSEN:   Well, I think it's everything really.   Driving is very tough.   The thing is, if you miss the fairway, you can't even stop it with a wedge out of the rough.   That's the issue.   So if you can drive it well, you've got a chance of putting a good round together.   I didn't drive it so well today.   Hopefully tomorrow I can get it going a little bit.   I was a bit out of sync today. 

Q.   Feeling like a major‑‑ we feel like when scores are that high, it feels like a major‑‑
RETIEF GOOSEN:   It's getting that way, yeah.   The rough is thick in places.   Yeah, the greens are definitely becoming, you know, U.S. Open greens.   They are getting firmer and quicker.   Some of these holes, if you get away with a par, it's a good score.

Q.   Obviously suits your game pretty well. 
RETIEF GOOSEN:   You know, it's been such a long time since I've last been in contention.   Who knows how my game is going to hold up, but I'm feeling good.   My back's feeling great.   So if the nerves can hold, just continue to make good golf swings and make a few good putts, who knows.

Q.   Were you nervous today? 
RETIEF GOOSEN:   I was, I wouldn't say nervous.   I excited, you know, to be up there again, fighting for the lead a little bit.   And then, yeah, at the last minute, managed to get a birdie. 
I struggled, but I was fighting.   I was working hard out there, keeping my score together and hopefully this weekend it's going to be the same.   It's going to be a grind out there.   It's not going to be easygoing.

Q.   When is the last time you had to work that hard, when it meant something? 
RETIEF GOOSEN:   Probably when the last time I won, 2009.   It's been a while since I've been in the lead and having a chance. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT