NORTHERN TRUST OPEN
February 19, 2015
Retief Goosen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You and Vijay fed off each other pretty nicely. 
RETIEF GOOSEN:   Yeah, I got off to a great start, played pretty solid the first sort of ten holes and then Vijay played really well in the last eight holes. 
It was nice to see the two old boys play pretty good.

Q.   What is it about the old boys and Riviera; just the old course and you guys like it, don't you?
RETIEF GOOSEN:   The course is great.   The fairways are like fairways I've never seen before they are like greens.   The greens are a bit bumpy places but they are rolling pretty good‑‑ this morning they did anyway, for me.   The course is playing‑‑ it's tough to hit some of these fairways because they are running so fast, the fairways.

Q.   Talk about the 10th.   You hit it in there close. 
RETIEF GOOSEN:   Well, I don't think it's even worth going for that green anymore.   You feel like you've got a half a chance of hitting it with a sand wedge.   I had a perfect yardage, about 85 yards and was just a nice 60‑degree shot in there and just landed in the right spot and ended up close. 
Yeah, walking off that hole for birdie is pretty good. 

Q.   When you say "the right spot," give our listeners an idea of what the right spot is ‑‑ size of a coffee table maybe? 
RETIEF GOOSEN:   I would say so.   Vijay landed pretty much two yards further than me and his ran to the back edge.   Yeah, you have to land it exactly in a two‑yard area to get it close. 

Q.   Feels a little bit like 15 years ago with you and Vijay at the top of the leaderboard.   Talk about the state of your game at this point and this round today. 
RETIEF GOOSEN:   Well, it was a nice round today.   I played nicely.   I hit a lot of fairways, which you have to do around here.   The greens are rock hard, so coming out of the rough, you struggle to keep it on the greens. 
I actually felt like I started playing pretty good in Torrey on the weekend.   I hit a lot of good shots but just didn't really get any results out of my game and finally today, it all came together.

Q.   This is a golf course and tournament, typically you don't have to go super‑super low.   Do you feel like that's a good thing for someone like yourself to compete with the young guys that can bomb it? 
RETIEF GOOSEN:   Well, I mean, I can't see the scoring are going to be very low this week.   The greens are rock hard.   There was a few pins out there today that even with the sand wedge in hand, you couldn't stop it. 
Anything under par is a pretty good round around this course.   Like I said, the course is in great shape, and the fairways are running probably seven, eight on the Stimpmeter; the fairways are so quick.   Some of these fairways are pretty hard to keep it on the fairway.

Q.   Have you typically seen those kind of conditions here in the past?
RETIEF GOOSEN:   This is pretty much the best condition I've ever seen these fairways.   Probably some of the best fairways I've ever played on.   They are as pure as you can get them. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT