THE INTERNATIONAL
August 10, 2003
Retief Goosen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








RETIEF GOOSEN:   Yeah, the first round was disappointing, never really got anything going with the rain delay and got a bad bounce at the first that stopped the momentum but then played nicely from there on. 


Q.  Did you have a target score in mind, any place you wanted to get to or just climb the leaderboard as you could?

RETIEF GOOSEN:   We knew it was going to be tough, from any position you get on the green.  I think rest of the field was sort of feeling like they were playing for second place, but that was my goal today, to see if I could get to 36, then I could finish second.  I got it going eventually right about 13 and 14 but then 15, really messed up.  After that I really thought I had no chance of finishing in the Top  3 even. 

Hit a 3 wood and good 6 iron on 16 ended up about five feet and holed a good putt for eagle.  That hole has been good to me this week, three birdies and an eagle.  I made up a few points on that hole.


Q.  How do you feel about your game going into the PGA next week?

RETIEF GOOSEN:   Looking forward to it next week.  My feet are also looking forward to it a little bit.  It's been a long walk and a hard week, playing five rounds, four rounds and the Pro Am.  Got some good exercise.  I'm looking forward to next week.  I've never played there and a lot of players I think     some told me today they have not played there and they are looking forward to it. 

JOAN vT ALEXANDER:   Can we go through your birdies and eagle and bogey? 

RETIEF GOOSEN:   First hole, I hit driver, 2 iron just short left and chipped down to about five feet.

From there on, I finally holed about a 30 footer on the 13th for birdie and a driver, 7 iron just short of the green on 14 and just down to about three feet. 

Then hit it right behind the tree on 15, chipped out on to the fairway over the green and from there, back over the green. Then 17, I hit 6 iron.


Q.  What was the yardage on the 6 iron? 

RETIEF GOOSEN:   194, I think it was.  The ball flies so far up here, I know it was uphill into the wind, but the ball is really going a long way.  Even downwind, some of the downwind holes, a wedge was close to 190 yards. 


Q.  You haven't played here in a few years - do you like playing the week before a major?

RETIEF GOOSEN:   I think so.  I like playing before the majors to get my game into some sort of shape and feel like I've got some play before I go into a major, instead of getting to a major and not quite sure how I'm playing.  I don't know, I feel like I'm playing pretty well.  Just need to get warmed up a little bit more, and then next week, I'm looking forward to try. 

JOAN vT ALEXANDER:   Thank you, Retief, for joining us.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT