NORTHERN TRUST OPEN
February 19, 2015
Retief Goosen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  ALEX URBAN:   Retief, thank you for joining us.   5‑under today.   Talk about your round and then we'll open it up for questions.   
RETIEF GOOSEN:   Yes, I got off to a great start.   The first hole, really everybody plays it as a par 4, but it was nice to get off to a birdie.   Made a good par save on the second and then I birdie 3 and 4.   
From there on, I hit a lot of good shots but some of the pins were pretty tough to get close.   Overall the round was good.   It was nice to make a few good putts.   11 and 12 was a bit disappointing from the middle of the fairway to make two bogeys there.   
But it was nice to finish it off with a few birdies and get a good round in.   It was nice to play with Vijay.   He had a good round going, too.   So between the two of us, we were sort of feeding off each other.  
   
 Q.   Were there signs that you thought this was coming in your game; that you were on the verge of something pretty good?   
RETIEF GOOSEN:   I felt like I played okay at Torrey on the weekend.   I just didn't really do‑‑ I hit a lot of good shots that didn't end up good.   So today was nice.   I hit a lot of good shots that ended up good, which helps.   But that was mainly the putter today.   I made a lot of good putts, a couple of good par saves here and there, like I say, on No.2 and 8 was good par saves from about 10, 12 feet.   
So those sort of putts keeps your round going.  
   
 Q.   You mentioned playing with Vijay out there.   Obviously you guys were feeding off each other and you've played hundreds of rounds together.   What's it like out there?   He doesn't talk to us after the round.   What do you guys talk about during the round?   
RETIEF GOOSEN:   Well, you know, we are all sort of in our own zone trying to concentrate on our game.   We had a little chat out there a little bit.   But yeah, sometimes when you get a good round going, you are both so focused on your round that you don't really chat as much as you would when you have got something over par going and you don't really care anymore.   
It was nice to play with Vijay.   He played very solid, too, and he putted really good.   So it's nice that the two old boys played so well.   
   
 Q.   You were talking about your putter today.   Has that been maybe holding you back?  
RETIEF GOOSEN:   Yeah, I would say I've not been putting so well.   I putted pretty poorly at the Humana.   But then I changed the loft on my putter a little bit.   I took a little bit of loft off it and it seems to sit a little better.   Like I say, at Torrey, I felt like I was starting to make a few good strokes.   Although I wasn't making much, but just felt like the putter was sitting nice for me, and today especially, you get those days when you put a putter down it's aiming where you want it to go.   
ALEX URBAN: Thank you, relief.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT