BELLSOUTH CLASSIC
April 4, 2003
Retief Goosen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







THE MODERATOR:  Defending Champion, Retief Goosen, thanks for joining us. 

If we could just get some opening comments from your second-round 70, two shots off the lead, in good position going into the weekend. 

RETIEF GOOSEN:  Yeah, it's not a bad place to be, a couple behind, 36 holes to go.  So, yeah, I'm looking forward to it. 


The course obviously played a bit tougher today; the greens, much firmer, especially the last three holes with the win picking up. 


In general I'm pretty happy with the game. 


Q.  You're not sure what the conditions are going to be for the weekend.  Lee was saying it would have to rain an awful lot here to change the course a whole lot.  Do you feel that way, too?

RETIEF GOOSEN:  Yeah, definitely.  I think it's going to have to be a fair bit of rain to soften these greens up. 


Me, myself, I would prefer it if they do stay firm.  It would be nice if they can stay that way.  But apparently it's going to rain, so we'll just have to wait and see how much. 


Q.  That shot in back bunker, it looked like you were kind of hesitating to the wind.  Did the distance pull you there a little bit?

RETIEF GOOSEN:  Yeah, I actually couldn't hit it in a better place on 18, on a slight up-slope, actually, on the fairway up there. 


We had 3-iron in our hands the whole time standing there, waiting for the group to finish.  Then the wind really just suddenly started picking up quite a bit.  I just felt like 3-iron wasn't enough.  I went to a soft 2-iron and went right through the wind. 


So it ended up an impossible play, I played a very good bunker shot actually to get it to the front left of the green there (inaudible). 


Q.  Can you compare the conditions today versus yesterday.  Was it tougher wind, easier pins?

RETIEF GOOSEN:  I think it's been pretty equal.  Maybe today, here and there, there might have been a few pins that were a bit easier than yesterday.


I think especially on the start yesterday there was a few very tough flags.  Today they were a little bit easier to get to. 


In general, I think the course has been pretty much equal both days. 


Q.  Is this the kind of course, particularly with the conditions this time of year, where it's better to be cautious or conservative than to be aggressive and attack it?  Does this course bite you if you attack it? 

RETIEF GOOSEN:  Well, there's a few holes that you can attack the flag.  But with the greens, the way they're getting out, there are some holes that, you know, you try to miss the green on the right side to get up-and-down.  Like No. 10, it's impossible to hit the green.  So you're trying to hit it in a bunker short left or just try and miss it just front right, just chip and putt from there. 


So the course is playing very well.  You have to really think your way around it. 


THE MODERATOR:  Can we go over your holes, starting on the back side with the birdie on No. 10. 

RETIEF GOOSEN:  I drove a 2-iron into the bunker front left, and then blast out to about 5 feet. 


THE MODERATOR:  Then 13, par 4.

RETIEF GOOSEN:  (Inaudible) front right and chipped down to about 4 feet. 


THE MODERATOR:  Bogeyed 18. 

RETIEF GOOSEN:  Well, I hit it over the green with 2-iron, and 3-putted. 


THE MODERATOR:  Then the birdie on 2.

RETIEF GOOSEN:  2, 2 it's nice to have a bit of revenge on it after all the double-bogeys and bogeys I made it on. 


I hit a wedge to about 6 feet and (inaudible).


THE MODERATOR:  No. 4? 

RETIEF GOOSEN:  4, driver, 6-iron to about 30 feet and 2-putt. 


THE MODERATOR:  And then bogeyed the last.

RETIEF GOOSEN:  Yeah, 9 played very different to what it played yesterday.  Yesterday was driver, wedge.  Today, driver, 5-iron and I should have hit 4-iron.  The wind really picked up and I hit it.  (Inaudible) the green and 3-putted from about 40 feet. 


Q.  Can you talk about the 9th hole. 

RETIEF GOOSEN:  Well, it was pretty tough today with the way the wind was coming into it.  You have to land it just perfect, sort of the front middle left side of the green to get it down on to the green.  I got it up into the wind a little bit and landed front left (inaudible). 


From there, I hit about a 40-footer that broke about 30 feet.  So I didn't really have much of a putt. 


Q.  If conditions change much, how much will that affect your game?  Do you play well on certain courses and certain types of conditions, or when you're playing well, does it matter what you're playing in? 

RETIEF GOOSEN:  I suppose when you play well it doesn't really matter what the conditions are like.  But like I said, I would like it to stay firm.  But if it softens up a little bit, obviously the scoring is going to come down quite a bit and you're going to have to get on top of your putting.  Then we're probably looking at 15-under or more, winning score, if it's going to get soft.


Q.  What have the courses been like in most of your victories?  Is there a pattern?  Do you frequently win on firm, fast courses or...? 

RETIEF GOOSEN:  It's been a mixture.  I would suppose it probably would be more in the softer side, playing in Europe.  Last year over here it was soft.  I would say probably more on the softer side. 


I won the US Open on pretty firm conditions and a few other events.  But I prefer when it's firm, really. 


THE MODERATOR:  Retief Goosen, thank you. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT