VOLVO MASTERS ANDALUCIA
November 9, 2002
Retief Goosen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.  Is it a strange feeling to be in this position, quite a different feel to it altogether, isn't it? 
RETIEF GOOSEN:   Yeah, I'm playing bad.  So unfortunately that's disappointing to play so bad in the last event of the year.  But there is that now (Order of Merit), so I'll play tomorrow and see what happens. 

Q.  How much tougher was the golf course today than it was yesterday with the wind? 
RETIEF GOOSEN:   Well, yeah, it's probably at least five shots tougher today, I would say. 

Q.  Yesterday you said the putting was the only saving grace; and today?
RETIEF GOOSEN:   No, today was  -- really, I didn't do anything.  I didn't make any putts.  I didn't hit any good golf shots.  Putted worse than yesterday.  Conditions were a lit bit more difficult today, and it was quite windy, so it's difficult to stay quite stable over the putts. 
Just try again tomorrow. 

Q.  Any closer to finding out what the problem is? 
RETIEF GOOSEN:   I'm just going to keep trying.  Keep trying to hit good putts and hope they go in.  Today I misread quite a lot of putts.  I felt like I hit a few good ones and really broke more or didn't break. 

Q.  The way the cards have fallen this week, can you count on the Order of Merit at this point?
RETIEF GOOSEN:   No.  We'll wait till tomorrow afternoon and we'll see who is on top. 

Q.  Will it be kind of hollow if you play another round like your last couple of rounds and still come through winning the thing? 
RETIEF GOOSEN:   Well, it all depends, really, on how good Padraig plays tomorrow.  If he shoots a good round and I shot a bad round, then he'll win it.  If I play a good round, then I suppose I could win it.
So I'm going to try to play a good round tomorrow.  It's supposed to be similar conditions tomorrow.  Doesn't look very tough to shoot a good, low round around this course. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
RETIEF GOOSEN:   No.  Wait till tomorrow.  If he beats me, I'll tip my hat off and say well done.  If I win it, then I'll consider myself lucky to win it. 

 




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT