FRYS.COM OPEN
October 11, 2014
Retief Goosen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Really solid ball‑striking out there.   You only missed two greens, hitting 16 of 18.   
RETIEF GOOSEN:   Yeah, today was nice and consistent.   Yesterday afternoon I went to the range and seemed to have found something that started making me hit the ball a little bit more cones, and took it out on the course today, which was nice.   I started off with a solid birdie on the first and the third, also a pretty tough hole, a good drive down there, and I played solid.   The only bad mistake was on the par‑3, 15th, with a bad three‑putt there.  
   
 Q.   Could you share with us the little correction you made?  
RETIEF GOOSEN:   It was all just a setup issue.   I was setting up a little bit crooked with my back, so I was just trying to get my back in a little bit better position.   Suddenly I started to seem to hit a few better shots.   But it's always different taking it out on the golf course, but today I seemed to have.   
   
 Q.   Did the speed of the greens out there change at all?  
RETIEF GOOSEN:   I probably expected them to be╩‑‑ although I made a lot of good putts, I probably expected them to be a little bit firmer.   I was surprised how soft they were.   There was a lot of heel marks in some of the places, but maybe it will firm up for us tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Your thoughts on the final round?  
RETIEF GOOSEN:   Yeah, I'm going to need another very low one tomorrow.   The guys are playing really well.   The whole field seems to be scoring pretty good.   I think today has probably been the best scoring day we've had.  
   
 Q.   Must feel good to be in contention.   
RETIEF GOOSEN:   Yeah, it's been a while, and like I say, hopefully tomorrow we can come down the stretch having a shot.   
   
 Q.   What worked for you today?   What clicked?   
RETIEF GOOSEN:   You know, I just drove the ball a lot better today.   The first few rounds I missed a lot of fairways, and today I drove it well.   I missed two greens in regulation today, so I had a lot of birdie chances out there today.  
   
 Q.   What have the last few weeks been like for you?   How did you spend the off‑season?  
RETIEF GOOSEN:   Yeah, I've had five weeks off, unfortunately.   Didn't make it that far in the FedExCup, and I was just at home in Orlando.   Spent some time with the family, do what families do.   Take the kids to school, do schoolwork and things like that.   It was nice to put the clubs away for a little bit and then the last couple of weeks start hitting balls again.  
   
 Q.   Tomorrow you get the juices flowing again, will be in contention.   It's been a while but obviously you're familiar with that position.   
RETIEF GOOSEN:   Yeah, it's been a while.   It will be nice to have that bit of extra power in the swing of the nerves, but the guys are scoring well.   I'm not sure, five shots off the lead probably by the end of the day, so tomorrow is going to require a low round.  
   
 Q.   How is your health right now?  
RETIEF GOOSEN:   My back is feeling great.   Besides having a bit of a cold this week, my body is feeling great.   My back is in really good shape, zero back pain.  
   
 Q.   How much of a difference maker is that for you?  
RETIEF GOOSEN:   Well, it was the difference between giving up the game and not playing again.   I got to a point where I couldn't really walk anymore at the British Open a few years ago, and I pulled out after the first round because I couldn't walk.   It got to a point where it was operation and it's better or operation and I'm in the same boat.   
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT