MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 9, 2002
Retief Goosen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 LARRY PUGH:   Ladies and gentlemen I'd like to welcome Retief Goosen, winner of the 2001 U.S. Open, he captured the European Order of Merit on the European Tour, and last week he won the BellSouth Classic.  Retief, welcome.
Q.  Is it Goosen (pronouncing 'Hoosen') or Goosen?
RETIEF GOOSEN:   It's Goosen.  I don't know who started with the H.  It's just Goosen as it is.  I don't know where that came from, but hopefully we'll get there one day.  (Laughter.)

Q.  Some guys win the U.S. Open and they struggle a little bit, you have used that as a springboard and have moved up to the Top-5 in the rankings.  Can you elaborate on how much winning the Open has helped you? 
RETIEF GOOSEN:   It's really boost my confidence.  It's really made me realize that I can play under this sort of pressure, and I'm a lot more relaxed now, a little bit under pressure situations than I was in the past.  I think that's been one of the reasons for my improvement.

Q.  A question about your neighbor, Ernie.  I don't know if it's because of what you guys did together, but ever since that team event that you guys won, he's taken off.  Have you seen any underlying theme to his spike in performance over the last, since, I guess November?  Do you have an explanation for that? 
RETIEF GOOSEN:   I think Ernie was just going through a little bit of a low generally.  I think he was just a little bit not quite psyched up for the game, I think because he wasn't playing too well and he wasn't quite really keen on really getting out there.  I know he's worked with sports psychologists a little bit to help him just get his motivation and focusing around the golf course a little bit better, and his golf has improved since then as well.
Yeah, it could have been the World Cup, the two of us together, but he played really well at the World Cup anyway.  Could be the psychologist.  But he's a lot more keener now to get out there and play.

Q.  After winning last week in Atlanta, have you had any trouble this week so far picking yourself up for this week? 
RETIEF GOOSEN:   I took the day off yesterday.  I came to the golf course really just to register and maybe hit ten balls on the range.  No, I feel okay.  I'll take it easy tomorrow, as well.  I'll be fine when Thursday comes.

Q.  Tiger said earlier that the changes on the golf course have not really affected his strategy and club selection.  I was wondering how you felt with the changes and any impact for you? 
RETIEF GOOSEN:   Today, I think it was really just two holes that I think really stood out with the changes, No. 7 I think played much more difficult than it did in the, with playing into the wind today, when you had to hit driver.  And 18, obviously, I think is the other hole that is the big difference, adding 50, 60 yards. 
But the other holes didn't play all that different than they did in the past, but the course is in general, much better conditioned than it's been in than in the past few years I think.  And it just plays so much nicer than it did in the past.  I think everybody is happy with the changes.  I think it was a good thing and now the golf course is really tough for everybody.  I know Tiger used to hit it over all of the trouble in the past and now the trouble is in play for him, as well.  It's going to be an exciting week. 

Q.  I think it was Deane Pappas was talking about some of the animals that would sometimes get onto the golf course in the part of the world where he grew up.  I was wondering, I don't know specifically what town or what region you were from or if it's close to that, but did you have the occasional unwelcome wild life? 
RETIEF GOOSEN:   Not where I come from.  It was a little bit of buck around here and there, but nothing as wild as he grew up in.  I played a round at that course, grew up really playing at Patabora (ph).  You go out at night and you see lions on the golf course.  (Laughter.)
It is a great golf course.  It's one of the best golf courses in South Africa, I think and it's right next to Kruger National Park and they have got everything on it, elephants, giraffes, you name it, it's a scary golf course to play sometimes.

Q.  What is the exact location? 
RETIEF GOOSEN:   It's north it's right next to the Transval Kruger National Park. 

Q.  This is your third major championship since winning the Open.  Do you have a little different feel going in, more confident or look forward to it more than you did prior to winning?
RETIEF GOOSEN:   I definitely am more looking forward to now.  I know that I can, like I say, get around these tougher courses a little bit more confident than I did in the past.  So I've sort of learned a lot about my game and had to play on these sort of courses, and maybe what to do at times. 
Yeah, I'm really looking forward to these events than I did in the past.

Q.  I'm reading between the lines a little bit, implying, implications of what you're saying is maybe you didn't have the confidence before and that there was perhaps some doubt when it got into crunch time?
RETIEF GOOSEN:   It was more self-doubt thinking I can't really do it around these sort of courses, but now I know that I can.  Now I'm going into these events a lot more positive than I was in the past.

Q.  So has what's happened in your career in your mind more of a mental thing than any technical improvements you have gone through?
RETIEF GOOSEN:   Yeah, I think it was more a mental thing for me.  The game is so much in the mind these days.  Technically, my golf swing as also improved.  I think my focusing around the golf course is a lot different now than it was in the past.

Q.  Do you still have dreams, wake up screaming, missing that putt at Tulsa?
RETIEF GOOSEN:   No, actually I forgot about it by now.  (Laughter.) No, I never had any problems with that.  I've been sleeping quite peacefully since then.

Q.  (Inaudible.)
RETIEF GOOSEN:   He might just say that that will get you going for the week.  Other times you think it's a waste of time.  But other times he might just say something that, come Sunday, it might just get you to focus a little bit better that you can think of, or calm yourself down.

Q.  Have you won back-to-back in your career before? 
RETIEF GOOSEN:   Yes, I did.  This year, actually.  Johnnie Walker and Dimension Data.

Q.  It sounds like Jos's style is half motivational, half confrontational in terms of sometimes the way he pushes the buttons with you guys; it's a little different approach?
RETIEF GOOSEN:   Yeah, he's not the guy to put you on the couch and makes you go to sleep and that sort of thing, no.  He can really get quite wound up, you know, and be aggressive in a way; sort of wakes you up a little bit.  He's got his own sort of way of getting you going.  And I'm sure other guys do it different.

Q.  Does he work for a fee or does he get a cut of your purse? 
RETIEF GOOSEN:   Well, depends, really.  We have our little deal.  The guy has got to get paid.  He's doing pretty well, I think. 

Q.  Why do you suppose people were so surprised at you winning the Open last year?  Why have you kind of snuck up on people who follow golf, the success you've had in the last year or so?
RETIEF GOOSEN:   I don't know.  You know, you've been working for eight years on your game as a professional and suddenly it came along and you suddenly start playing, what you've been working for.  At some stage of your life you have got to get some sort of rhythm going and it's happened with everybody.  I think it's been top players and they struggle for a while and they came through, a few like Tiger that's been good on the start, Sergio as well.
Some guys just seem to bloom early in the game and others later.  I seem to be one of those hanging back a little bit.

Q.  Other than the confidence boost, how has your day-to-day life changed having won? 
RETIEF GOOSEN:   Nothing really.  I still go to restaurants and have my meal and I'm not getting bothered at all, which is great.  So I'm quite happy the way it's going.  It's been difficult off course with interviews and things like that.  Back in South Africa, especially.  But it's been a great experience the last year.  
That's all part of the game for me now, and I enjoy it.

Q.  What was that like when you got back home?
RETIEF GOOSEN:   Unfortunately, my first time back was the end of the year, the Million Dollar, and Monday and Tuesday I spent about four hours every day in the press media tent doing interviews.  So it was a bit tiring and I wasn't really prepared at all for the tournament. 
It was good, lots of support from back home.

Q.  Are you recognized at all in this country?  I would think perhaps a little bit more in Europe, or is that not the case?
RETIEF GOOSEN:   I think over here, it's been pretty good, actually.  A lot more people recognize me now.  This year, especially, even after I won the U.S. Open last year, it wasn't all that much, but this year, especially now coming back here, it's been a lot more interest.  In Europe, I haven't played much in Europe this year yet.  After the Masters, I'm going back to play four events on the European Tour. 

Q.  How much will you play there and how much will you play here? 
RETIEF GOOSEN:   Well, I'm playing 15 events on the 
PGA TOUR this year, and the 11 you have to play on the European Tour. 

Q.  How is golf coming along back home in terms of it's importance on the national sports scene with you and Ernie and now about a half dozen of you playing on this tour?
RETIEF GOOSEN:   There's a lot of good players in South Africa.  Unfortunately the economy is not that good in 
South Africa, so golf is not really going as forward as we would like to see it going forward in South Africa, but still a great place to play golf, great weather all year round.  It's good.  It's just very expensive now for any of the young guys to come and play overseas.  The problem is exchange rate is killing them. 

Q.  Does it feel a lot different coming into tournaments now and having people expecting more of you?
RETIEF GOOSEN:   I think it's really motivated me, people expecting a little bit more, and it's really boost my confidence.  I am enjoying it.  I'm not getting pressurized by it at all.  It's only a game at the end of the day, and, you know, tomorrow I've got to wake up and do it again.  So, it's not a life-and-death situation for me. 
LARRY PUGH:   Thank you for being with us and good luck this week. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT