BELLSOUTH CLASSIC
April 5, 2002
Retief Goosen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 JOEL SCHUCHMANN: Welcome Retief Goosen reigning U.S. Open Champion to the media center at the Bell South Classic. Retief shot a 66 today and is 10-under par for the tournament.  When is the last time you had two eagles in one round.
RETIEF GOOSEN: I can honestly not remember.  It must have been a long time ago for me not to remember.  I made a very good eagle on the 6th hole, hit driver and 3-wood to about 30 feet, holed a good putt.  But I suppose I got lucky on 13, I hit it left off the tee and really had no shot.  The only way I was going to stop the ball is hit the flag and that's what happened.  It landed short of the hole second bounced straight in the hole.  That was a pretty lucky that one. 
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Maybe  A talk little bit about your round in general today how you are playing; how you feel about going into Augusta next week.
RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, it's actually quite funny.  I am not playing well at all.  I am hitting the ball not good at all off the tee and into the green but I am -- I made my fair share of putts in these last two rounds.  I am really scrambling all around the course.  There's other days you hit the ball so great; you can't make a putt.  It has been a funny two rounds for me, the same of yesterday, also not been playing well at all and just when (inaudible) he holes a couple of iron shots today and holed a few long putts.  It is a funny game. 
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Before we get into questions go over your birdies and bogies starting with a birdie on No. 2.
RETIEF GOOSEN: No. 2 is just a soft 8-iron to about ten feet.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Eagle on No. 6.
RETIEF GOOSEN: Driver and 3-wood to about 30 feet, and holed a good putt there. 
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Birdie on No. 3.
RETIEF GOOSEN: 7 hit a good drive, sand wedge to about three feet. 
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Bogey on No. 8 playing 217 yards today.
RETIEF GOOSEN: 5-iron in the right bunker and hit a poor bunker shot to about ten feet and missed the putt. 
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Then your eagle on 13.
RETIEF GOOSEN: Driver a bit left had about 50 yards to go, like I say, it landed just a yard short of the hole second bounced straight in.  Lob wedge. 
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  On 18 finished up with a good birdie.
RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, 18 hit a pretty good drive and it was just a good 2-iron for me into the green, hit it fat, and luckily I blocked it as well and it ended up short right of the green.  If I hit it dead at the flag it was in the water.  Like I said, it was a lucky break today and hit a good chip shot down to a couple of feet. 
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  I guess sometimes you need those things.  Questions. 

Q.   Since you said you are not playing well, going into next week how did you feel prior to going into the U.S. Open last year?
RETIEF GOOSEN: Going into the U.S. Open I did play well.  I was hitting the ball really well.  Up in England in the English Open and I was just not putting well.  The difference came when I got to the U.S. Open I hit the ball well but I started making putts.

Q.   How come you haven't had better success at Augusta which seems to be a place that would be a good place for you?
RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, I have done pretty bad in the last three attempts.  Last year I know I had an injury.  I picked it up on Sunday of this tournament on a practice tee pulled a muscle and had to pull out after two holes.
So never really got a practice round even at August and struggled with injuries.  This year I think I will be a little bit better prepared so I am looking forward to the event.

Q.   Have you had an opportunity to go to Augusta at all this year yet?
RETIEF GOOSEN: No, I haven't.  But Ernie has told me that the changes have been good.  It is going to be interesting when we get there next week.  Hopefully we get weather like this.  If it gets very windy around there it is going to be tricky.

Q.   Feel like this course is a good test for you in regards to how you would be playing next week or at least getting a feel for it?
RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, I definitely think.  A lot of the sort of bump-and-run shots around the green, and very quick slopey greens so I think you can learn a lot from this week going to next. 

Q.   Did you hit before or after Jesper on No. 8?
RETIEF GOOSEN: I hit before him, so I picked a good club for him, but he hit it a little bit straighter than me. 




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT