FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
June 7, 2014
Retief Goosen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Follow a 66 with another 66.   Your thoughts on how you played in the second round.  
    RETIEF GOOSEN:   It was a little bit up and down, lot of bogies and a lot of birdies but, yeah, I'm very happy with the round.   
    Tricky some of these greens, this morning or afternoon, I don't even know what the time is.   It's been a long day already.   
    Overall very happy with the round, yeah.   I could have probably would have been nice to make another birdie coming in on the last three.   I had my chances but shoot pretty low again this afternoon to catch Ben.  
   
 Q.   Now, do you think you had any type of advantage of not having to go out at all yesterday and play?   I know towed wait around for a decision but some of these guys were in and out, in and out.  
    RETIEF GOOSEN:   Yeah.   I mean it's hard to say, you know.   When they're going in and out it's not nice but there was a time they did go out, no wind, nothing and it was playing calm, while it's a bit breezy again this afternoon.   The course is very wet, still.   The greens are still rolling very good.   I think overall it's been pretty equal.  
   
 Q.   I want to talk about one of your pars, the one at 15.   That was a great flop shot behind the green back of the cart path.   Tell our listeners what you were looking at and, of course, you made the putt, which was key there.  
    RETIEF GOOSEN:   Yeah.   I got one massive flyer out of the rough, 9-iron that just went forever and yeah, it was one of those shots, only one area to land it.   I landed in it that area.   It was a great shot to get it within 8 feet and then make the putt on top of that.   It's a great save.  
   
 Q.   Looks like you're you'll be playing sometime last late this afternoon.   What's the plan for the next few hours?  
    RETIEF GOOSEN:   Put my legs up and, you know, try and relax.   It's a long afternoon coming up.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT