U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 15, 2001
Retief Goosen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  (Inaudible.)

RETIEF GOOSEN:  It's like Goosen.  Goose with an N.  That's the easiest way for everybody to say it.

Q.  You made the cut last year, and here you're going into a Saturday at the U.S. Open, in a tie for the lead.  Just talk a little bit about how that feels.

RETIEF GOOSEN:  Well, yes, I'm tied for the lead, but there's still a lot of players to be finished.  Obviously, I'm very happy to where I've been playing.  I putted very well.  And yesterday was really a good iron play day for me.  I hit the ball really close to the flags.  Today I didn't quite hit it as good as I hit it yesterday, but I managed to keep it together.

Q.  Tiger at 5-over, a lot of people are watching you, because you could have an impact on whether he plays on Saturday.  Did you have any sense of that?

RETIEF GOOSEN:  No, I had no idea.  I thought he was playing better than that.  I heard a couple of big roars in front of us, and I thought it was him on a roll again.  It's surprising to see him at that, knowing that the course is probably not that long for him.  He can hit a lot of irons off the tee.  But I'm happy with the way it's been going.  The course is in great condition, obviously.  It played a lot softer than yesterday.  But it's going to dry out fairly quick.  Hitting the fairways is a little bit easier.  The ball doesn't roll as much off, so -- but it's going to dry out, it's going to be an interesting weekend.

Q.  You made six birdies in the first 13 holes.  Did you find yourself in a position to be more cautious, and know that you have the lead or stay aggressive?

RETIEF GOOSEN:  I was trying to attack flags where I can. Obviously, the last few holes are quite tricky.  14 and 15 and 16 and then 18 obviously is not really easy birdie hole.  17 you've got a chance, if you can hit a good line shot in there.  But I was trying to finish 6-under, but I just couldn't do it over a couple of bogeys, unfortunately, finishing.  But this afternoon I was quite happy with the way I played.  I hung in there, I just made pars the first sort of 12 holes, and then hit a really bad 3-wood on the 13th hole, trying to hit a draw in there and ended up hitting a slice.  And not a very good up-and-down for birdie.  And then, unfortunately, I hit a bad 5-iron on the next that plugged in the bunker and made bogey.  And then I really had really good iron shots into the next two holes, but just couldn't make the putts.  On 18 I unfortunately pulled a 4-iron into the green, and didn't find a good lie off the green, and couldn't get it up-and-down.

Q.  You play a lot of golf in Europe and South Africa, I know you played a few events in the States.  How important is it for you to establish yourself as a player in America, for people to see you on a worldwide stage?

RETIEF GOOSEN:  Obviously, I'd like to play over here, but I am in no rush to come over here.  If I do well enough to get my card to play over here, then I'll consider it to play.  I like Europe and I like the different things on the European Tour.  I like it over here as well.  The weather is very nice.  It's just like South Africa.  But I'm in no rush.  If I do well enough to get here, I'll make a plan.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT