U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 15, 2001
Retief Goosen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  How difficult was the course today?
 
RETIEF GOOSEN:  Comparing to the first few holes yesterday, it was a lot easier.  You can go for the flags and stop it at the flags.  And hardly any breeze out there today.  So I guess the scoring conditions can't be better. 
 

Q.  Did you feel today that it was the day you needed to make a move?
 
RETIEF GOOSEN:  I felt like everybody was going to try to make a move with the conditions.  I got off to a good start and then, unfortunately, I had a bit of a bad finish.  But it's getting pretty steamy out there with the water coming off, I'm struggling to hold onto the club a little bit.  I'm looking forward to the rest of the tournament. 
 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
 
RETIEF GOOSEN:  I probably didn't hit it as well as I hit it yesterday, no.  The back 9 is obviously a little bit tougher and longer, but this afternoon I'm just going to try to keep it together and play for par, and if birdies come, they come. 
 

Q.  What were the problem areas on the course?
 
RETIEF GOOSEN:  Well, I don't think there were any problems on the course.  The course is in great shape.  If you miss the fairways, especially this morning, being with all the rain, there's no chance of reaching the greens. 
 

Q.  How happy are you with the round?
 
RETIEF GOOSEN:  I'm very happy.  Like I say, I haven't been playing all that great this year, but I was hitting the ball -- it was the putting that was letting me down.  And yesterday I made the putts and today.  So if I can keep it going, I'm looking forward to it. 
 

Q.  The driver on 16, did your hand come off the club at all?
 
RETIEF GOOSEN:  I was just trying to hit a little fade down the fairway and I just over cut it, really, and the ball ended way right into the trees.  From there on I was just trying to make 5. If 4 comes, it comes.  I was pretty happy walking away with five. 
 

Q.  If the conditions stay the way they are, at the end of the day what do you feel the number is you need to get to?
 
RETIEF GOOSEN:  I probably need to get to 6-under.  I think that would probably be a pretty good score.  It depends on what the rest of the field are doing this afternoon.  It's not easy to shoot low out there. 
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT