THE SENIOR OPEN PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 26, 2019
Retief Goosen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Looking to join Jack Nicklaus as the only player to have won multiple majors on the senior circuit in their rookie year.  That being said, what aspects of your game are you most proud of?  
RETIEF GOOSEN: Today we were lucky the weather really died down this afternoon.  The course played about as easy as it could play.  My iron play was a little better today.  I gave myself more birdie chances.  That was the main key.  Today I still hit a few bad ones, but yeah, it's a good position to be in with two rounds to go.   
 Q.  We talked a lot during the broadcast about how much power you bring to the game here in the senior circuit.  Is that restricted a little bit by this golf course here?  
RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, this golf course is definitely about placing the ball, just left or right of a bunker.  Depending on conditions, there's a few of them that you can take it on and fly it over them.  Pretty much every hole, you've got to duck and dive for the bunkers.  It's a golf course that you just can't flick a driver out and hammer away.   
 Q.  You're right there with a chance to win going into the weekend.  What is your plan for the weekend as far as maybe catching up a little bit?  
RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, I mean, it's all going to be about the weather.  Sounds like it's going to be a wet weekend, so that's going to change the course and make it softer even more.  Today it definitely played softer than yesterday morning.  It's a golf course that you just have to stay out of these bunkers.  Today I did that well.  My iron play was a little better than it was yesterday and I gave myself a few more chances for birdies.   
 Q.  You have the opportunity to do something only Jack Nicklaus has done, win a major in your PGA TOUR champions?  
RETIEF GOOSEN: It would be great to join his record.  I didn't know that.  It's something to play for this weekend, but there's a lot of golf left around this golf course.  Conditions change so quickly, and the course just changed so quickly.  Just got to try and find fairways, hit greens and hope the putter starts warming up.   
The greens are not easy to putt on.  They get a little bouncy in the afternoons, but hopefully we'll see what happens at the weekends and maybe I can pull it off.   
 Q.  How much do you think the softer conditions have actually helped get the ball close to the hole?  
RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, you can pretty much, you know, with most of my irons, I can fly it almost straight up at the flag now.  You don't have to worry about too much of a bounce and the same on the fairways.  Hitting a 3-wood off the tee, you hardly get any roll now.  Driver, you can get it to run out a little.   
 Q.  Clean card, three birdies?  
RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, a lot more consistent today.  Yesterday was a lot of bogeys and a lot of birdies, and today there was no bogeys, which helps.  Yeah, it was more consistent today, especially my irons.  I was a little bit better.   
Plus we had better conditions today and we were really lucky this afternoon, the wind dying down, and it really became quite pleasant to be out there.   
 Q.  Did you manage to stay out of all 169 bunkers?  
RETIEF GOOSEN: No, I was in one today.  I managed to get it up-and-down.  But yeah, the key is to stay out of these bunkers.  The fairway bunkers, you have no shot.  Maybe 17 is the only bunkers on the course you have a chance to get to the green.   
Today, yeah, I placed it well, and I gave myself a lot more chances for birdies today.  So keep that up for the weekend and see what happens.   
 Q.  On the weekend, the weather conditions could be different and could be a testing challenge?  
RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, I'm sure it will.  I'm sure it will.  It sounds like it's going to be not very high winds, but we'll get some rain and the wind turns out the north and that changes the course completely and it's going to get cooler and will play longer.  So it will be interesting to see.   
 Q.  And two shots back.  
RETIEF GOOSEN: Two shots, two rounds to go -- it's nothing.  Even two shots with two holes to go around this golf course is nothing.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT