VALSPAR CHAMPIONSHIP
March 15, 2014
Retief Goosen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Retief, unbelievable 7-under 64 and you didn't birdie a par 5.   Tell me how you do that out on this golf course.  
RETIEF GOOSEN:   Yeah.   You know, yesterday actually I sort of played okay but didn't make a single putt and even today walking down 6 I said to Mark, "I can't make a putt" and suddenly I made one on 7 and, halleluiah, it started happening.  
   
 Q.   Is that really all it is is making a few putts out here?   Greens are tough this week, aren't they?  
RETIEF GOOSEN:   Yeah, especially in the afternoon they're very crusty.   This morning the second group out, it was perfect.   When you have missed a putt you felt actually quite disappointed.   
But, yes, just on the 7th hole I made 15-footer with a big right to left break and from there on suddenly the hole was bigger.   Made a few up and downs.   The chip-in on 16 was a big turn around for the round.  
   
 Q.   Tell me, for the guys coming out in the afternoon, are there good hole locations where it's getable today?   The golf course overall is shorter in yardage than it was yesterday a lot.  
RETIEF GOOSEN:   Yeah.   I mean this golf course doesn't give you anything.   A bad shot sometimes, sometimes a good shot doesn't end up well.   You know the par-5s are all tricky.   
I didn't birdie a single par 5 today.   I think I made one birdie so far on a par 5.   So it's a tricky course, you know, and once you start messing around these flags it's hard to get up and down.  
   
 Q.   You're such a humble guy.   You played one heck of a round of golf.   I don't know if there's another 7 out there probably today, right?  
RETIEF GOOSEN:   I don't think so, no, especially not this afternoon.   The weather is good today.   I'm sure there will be some better scores out there today than the last couple of days.  
   
 Q.   On Saturday morning goes from the cut line right up the leaderboard.   Bogey-free 64.   Where did this round come from, Retief?  
RETIEF GOOSEN:   It's a bit of a bonus.   Actually yesterday I didn't play all that bad, I just couldn't make a putt.   I was walking down the 6th and 7th holes telling Mark, I can't make a putt, I made so many good putts, and suddenly I made one on 7.  
From there on they all started going in and then the chip-in on 16 was a bonus.   I thought I hit a good second shot there, came up short.   And 18 I hit a good drive, rolled through into the fairway bunker and had a horrible lie in the bunker and tried to like hook a 9-iron out of there.   Hit it probably 80 yards and still had 70 yards for my third and managed to get that up and down to make this round feel a lot better.  
   
 Q.   How much different did this golf course play as opposed to what we saw the first two days?  
RETIEF GOOSEN:   I mean on Thursday morning, you know, it was early on Thursday morning it was brutal.   The greens are good but you couldn't get to the greens it was that cold.   
Yesterday afternoon it was good but the greens were crusty, difficult to putt on and then this morning the greens were perfect.   Second group out.   Feels like you can make everything.   And when you don't make something you feel quite disappointed.  
But it happened for me and, yeah, I think I'm going to be close to the leaderboard, top of the leaderboard end of today and give myself a chance tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   You've done well here in the past.   How much does that help you with a round like today knowing that you can leave here with the trophy yet again?  
RETIEF GOOSEN:   It's a course I feel fairly comfortable on.   Obviously you got to play well.   Doesn't matter how comfortable you're feeling on it.   
I seem to see the lines very good on the greens here, good feel for some of the shots required and hopefully tomorrow I can get something going.   Not much has happened for me in the last couple of years and hopefully tomorrow is the day.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT