VOLVO WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
May 19, 2012
Retief Goosen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Retief, not for the first time you've been the quiet man this week, does that sum up your progress?   
RETIEF GOOSEN:   Yeah, pretty surprised I'm still around, but yeah, I played pretty solid the last couple of days.   The guys I made some mistakes.   I just played solid golf and I drove the ball nicely, kept the ball in play on a lot of holes and was never really out on some of the holes and I putted nicely.   Greens are rolling very good.   
   
 Q.   As time goes on, do you need to play better and better each round?   
RETIEF GOOSEN:   Not really.   Depends the guy you play against.   Sometimes you can win playing over par and you can shoot 65 and lose.   It's just really how the other guy plays.   You're just trying to beat him on every hole.   
   
 Q.   But now you're going to a match against Paul Lawrie and like you, he has been progressing steadily and you're both beginning to get to the thick of your game getting to the final stages?  
RETIEF GOOSEN:   Paul is playing very well this year.   He has one win under his belt already and he's been very consistent.   He's been one of the better players on The European Tour so far this year.   It's going to be a tough match, and with the conditions, Scottish weather, he's going to be a tough player to beat.  
   
 Q.   How would you like to see the weather develop?  
RETIEF GOOSEN:   The wind has not picked up like they said it was.   Definitely stronger wind than yesterday but maybe when this rain blows through it will pick up.   
   
 Q.   Congratulations, 3 & 2 against Robert Rock, your first match Saturday morning, you went 3‑up after seven holes and never gave the lead away.   How was the match?   
RETIEF GOOSEN:   Yeah, you know, he played a little bit poorly in the middle part of his round.   I won a couple of holes with pars, and I went up three, birdied quickly.   I made a bad mistake on 8 to lose a hole there and he made bogey again on 9.   So he didn't play all that great.   I just sort of kept my game together and managed to pull through.   
   
 Q.   Match play, doesn't really matter how low you shoot, as long as you beat your opponents; how happy are you with your game?  
RETIEF GOOSEN:   I'm driving the ball nicely.   I'm keeping it in play off the tee.   My iron play could be better.   I'm putting nicely, hit a few good putts the last couple of days, and that's what you need in match play, a lot of good putts.   
   
 Q.   This afternoon you'll be playing against Paul Lawrie, any thoughts on him?   
RETIEF GOOSEN:   Paul, he's a very good wind player, and it is windy at the moment and he's been playing really well this year.   I would say it's going to be a tough match.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT