VOLVO GOLF CHAMPIONS
January 21, 2012
Retief Goosen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MIKE GREEN:   3‑under par 70 today, right up the leaderboard, you must be pleased, the course is a lot tougher today than it was the first few days.  
RETIEF GOOSEN:   Yeah, the first six, seven holes played really tough.   I played them nice and solid, the first nine holes, and had a poor finish, very poor finish.   The last three holes are probably playing as easy as we'll see it, straight downwind.   Well, they (the final groups) probably know that they are going to birdie some of them.   And I didn't get it up‑and‑down out of the bunker on 16 and hit the wrong club on 17 and hit a poor shot into 18.   You feel like you should have played those three holes under par.   
MIKE GREEN:   Your prognosis for tomorrow, no one knows what the weather will be exactly but I guess you would like a little more of the same?   
RETIEF GOOSEN:   I think it will, I think it will be sunny and windy and tricky.   The greens were very slow today.   Probably struggled with my pace today and left a lot of putts short.   With the rain and the dampness, the greens grew very quick but tomorrow they will be back to normal and a bit more speedy so putting should be good.  
   
 Q.   You said yesterday that this wasn't the links that you know.   Was it more like it today?   
RETIEF GOOSEN:   Yeah, I think so.   You can see it on the scoring, the guys didn't‑‑ there's no course records out there.   There are some holes where par is a very good score, unlike yesterday, par is probably a bad score.   You know, today the course is starting to play like we know it.   
MIKE GREEN:   You played with Brendan Grace in the Joburg Open in the third round; what do you make of him?   
RETIEF GOOSEN:   Oh, yeah, he hits the ball well, and he hits it very low.   So obviously growing up in this part of the world, you have to learn to hit low.   It's quite an advantage for him today I would have said.   You have to be able to hit some of these low shots into these wind.   The guy is playing well, he's in good form and confident.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about the junior programme you are involved in?   
RETIEF GOOSEN:   Yeah, it's the first year I'm involved in the National High School Championship, and it's great to be part of it.   You've got to create these events to get new youngsters up‑and‑coming in this game.   That's what we do up in Polokwane, we get kids from the school to come and hit balls on the range, see which ones are the ones that have potential and take it from there.   
And to be part of this, as well, 120 kids playing this event, we have got some good sponsors behind us.   It's great to see that I can be part of that and hopefully help them make it to the pro level in the future.   
MIKE GREEN:   Good luck for tomorrow.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT