VOLVO GOLF CHAMPIONS
January 20, 2012
Retief Goosen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Much better out there today, what was the difference for you? 
RETIEF GOOSEN:   More consistency, got off to a nice start.   The same as yesterday but I had a lot of bogeys yesterday, disappointing finish.   Could have been a lot lower round. 

Q.   You were saying yesterday that the course was pretty soft and subject to attack. 
RETIEF GOOSEN:   Extremely soft.   I'm quite surprised.   I had two tee shots today that came back on the fairway, and yesterday I had another that had mud on it.   You're playing a links out there and it's playing like a parkland, so it's quite disappointing the way they are setting it up. 

Q.   But you can attempt the flags at least?
RETIEF GOOSEN:   I mean, that's why there's so much low scoring out.   No wind, the course is drenched.   Guys are shooting eight and 9‑under.   It's not the links as we know it.

Q.   But as the wind does come up on the weekend, it does have some hidden dangers for those who have been here before?
RETIEF GOOSEN:   Of course, but it doesn't look like it's going to blow at the moment and probably expect quite a low winning score around here. 

Q.   Today you had an amateur with you, an interesting competition and now you're strongly in contention?
RETIEF GOOSEN:   It was great.   Lee played unbelievable today.   He hit one bad tee shot into the long stuff and managed to make par out of it. 

Q.   How did you enjoy playing the amateur format? 
RETIEF GOOSEN:   It was good.   The players are good players as far as handicap.   He hit some better shots out there than me, so it's good.   (Chuckling).

Q.   Is it quite a nice change from the sort of normal event?
RETIEF GOOSEN:   Yeah, it's good that it's only one amateur.   It took us four hours, 45 minutes. 
So it is 45 minutes slower with one extra guy, but you know, luckily the weather is also playing along.   It's not windy, so it could take longer to play, but it's good that it's only one guy, yes. 

Q.   And fun for a day? 
RETIEF GOOSEN:   For a day it's enough, yes. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT