THE PRESIDENTS CUP
November 19, 2011
Retief Goosen
Charl Schwartzel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Did you know how important it was to come out and win a point right there? 
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, all of the points are important right now. But me and Charl played solid from the first few holes and got up on them early on. Then we got a bit spooked -- or I got spooked the last few holes and couldn't get a ball in the hole, but luckily we finished it off. 
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: You look at the boards and the guys are playing well. We needed a point, every point is pretty important. 
 Like I said, any time you can get a win, it gives guys confidence and you know, you don't know what can happen by the end of Sunday. 
 Now there's no holding back. We went out this afternoon, I think since we didn't play as well as what we wanted in the morning, we wanted to prove something in the afternoon and that's the sort of golf we need to play tomorrow.

 Q. Did Greg say anything to you? 
 RETIEF GOOSEN: No, didn't say anything, just wanted to know if I keep playing. I said my back's feeling fine, I'll keep going. Worked out well yesterday, me and Charl, so let's keep it going. 
 Got off to a great start. We made a few silly errors coming in -- or I did and we pulled our point off and now we'll go and support the other guys. 

 Q. Talk about getting a point against a for middle duo. 
 RETIEF GOOSEN: The two guys played very well early in the week. Me and Charl played well yesterday so we knew it was going to be a good match. Me and Charl played very solid and he made a few birdies in the middle part of the round and all I had to do was finish it off and I couldn't, but we managed to today. 

 Q. You said you were looking forward to playing because you thought you would have a tremendous chemistry and obviously it worked today. 
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: We play lots of practice rounds together and especially in better-ball, it's a good mix, as well. I started off well, two birdies, and then he took over in the middle and then I took over and then towards the end, we struggled a bit but managed to get the point. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT