THE PRESIDENTS CUP
November 18, 2011
Retief Goosen
Charl Schwartzel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Obviously the first win under your belt this week, conditions were pretty tough, just talk about the match a little bit. 
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, we got up early on them. We were 2-up through three holes and that's where we stayed from there on. We had a chance to finish off earlier, but Charl made a nice putt on 16, keeping us 2-up with two to go makes it a lot easier. 

 Q. On a day like today which is really difficult, how do you maintain your composure and keep concentrating? 
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: With the conditions as it is, you know par is very good around here. If you keep giving yourself good chances, which we did today, you know, you're going to have a good chance of winning your match. 

 Q. So the more times you play here, the more you learn? What did you learn today that you didn't know yesterday? 
 RETIEF GOOSEN: I mean, you're learning a little bit about the course every day, conditions. You know, you're hitting so many different shots out there in these conditions. There's not just one golf swing out here. Every shot has to be a certain shape.

 Q. Do you think you would be happy to stay together as a pairing tomorrow? 
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Well that's up to Greg I think, but yeah, I think we combined well today in the better-ball. We hit a lot of good shots. 

 Q. Talk about the day today. 
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: It was good for us. We knew after the first day that we had to play well today, and I think the guys did really well. You know, guys were up for it, and in tough conditions, I think as a side we are right in there.

 Q. Do you feel like the team is really bonding? 
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: I feel the team is unbelievable. You know, I was saying the other day, we talk about the Americans, they all come from the same place and we all come from different places in the world, yet in the team room we feel like one and that's a really good sign. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT