THE BARCLAYS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 7, 2011
Retief Goosen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, I'm happy with the round. Didn't hit the ball particularly good but got off to a good start, 3-under through three holes and had two 3-putts on the back nine which was disappointing. Could have been a good round.   
  
  Q. How do you like the course, new venue.   
 RETIEF GOOSEN: I think it's great, great preparation obviously for the British own. I think the players enjoy it more probably than Loch Lomond, the conditions. Loch Lomond is a great course, but just having that links feel, really makes the guys feel like they are getting good preparation for next week.  
  
  Q. This morning, weather conditions were pretty benign actually, do you think wind is going to affect a lot of the scores?  
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, it was windy all day. The wind is actually turning direction slightly, so it's actually becoming more of a tougher wind. It's a tougher wind than it was in the practise rounds in the Pro-Am. It's getting more across on the golf course. It makes it even more tricky to get it close.  
  
  Q. Can I ask where the balance lies between this event and next week, presumably it's a big event, so you're focusing on this, so your thoughts, inevitably just straight at The Open?  
 RETIEF GOOSEN: The key is obviously to just learn to hit the shapes into this wind, hitting the cut-up shot and the hook shots, like I said the wind is playing across on the course, different than it was in the practise rounds and it's actually making the course a bit tougher.  
  
  Q. Form has been pretty good, hasn't it?   
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, I 3-putted 14 from close and 18 from a long way away. So I'm happy with the round, 5-under start, hopefully keep it going the next few days.  
  
  Q. Keeping things going on recent weeks when you've been knocking on the door a couple of times?  
 RETIEF GOOSEN: I've been playing more consistent and I think I'm starting to sort my putter out a bit, too. My putter got bent about three weeks ago in travelling and I've been struggling to bend it back the way it was. In my week off, I bent it quite a few times and it seemed to lie a little bit better now.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT