BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 24, 2011
Retief Goosen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. How would you assess your first two rounds?
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, three shots off the lead is not bad. The greens were tricky this afternoon to putt on. I missed a lot of putts. Could have been lower, but I'm happy where I am, yeah. 

 Q. Three shots behind the leaders right now. What's your plan for the weekend?
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Tomorrow I need to keep hitting the ball well. I hit it pretty well today, but I just need to make the putts. If I can start making the putts, get on a bit of a roll, we should have a chance. 

 Q. How do you feel being here in Munich? For us here in Germany it's quite unusual to have as many spectators as we're seeing these two days. 
 RETIEF GOOSEN: True. That's pretty much the biggest thing I've seen here in Munich. It's great to see. BMW puts on such a great show here for everybody, the facilities and everything. It's great. It's nice to see so many people come out and watch. 

 Q. You must be delighted with your position so far. 
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, I am. I left a lot of shots out there on the greens, and I'm sure a lot of players are saying that, but they weren't easy to putt on this afternoon. But I hit the ball nicely. If I keep hitting the ball as good as I hit it the last few days, just start making a few putts on the weekend, I could have a chance on Sunday.

 Q. How happy overall are you with your game? It's coming nicely the last few days, but in general?
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, the last three or four weeks I started playing much better, a bit more consistent. Like I say, you've got to get the ball in the hole, so I just need to find a way of doing that.

 Q. Henrik Stenson has been struggling before, yet here he is at the top of the leaderboard. I guess the putts are the most important club in the bag. 
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, he's really struggled so far this year, and then suddenly he started playing well at the U.S. Open, really since the middle of the second round he's started playing very well. So it's nice to see he's taking it over into this tournament. 

 Q. For you guys it's an important time of the year, so if you are going to find some form, Open a few weeks away, some big events coming up, it's a good time to be doing it?
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, I'm looking forward to a week off next week, then Scottish Open and then the British. Hopefully it won't get too cold up in Scotland.

 Q. We can't guarantee that. 
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, I'm sure it's not going to be a heat wave, but at least we know it's going to be warmer down south. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT