COMMERCIALBANK QATAR MASTERS PRESENTED BY DOLPHIN ENERGY
February 3, 2011
Retief Goosen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Today, your birthday, happy birthday, a nice present for you?  
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Yes, would have been nice to have a nicer day, though, but yeah, got off to a good start and played well in these conditions.  
  
  Q. How tough were the conditions today?  
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, it was a good four-club wind there into the wind. Normally a wedge and suddenly we are hitting 7-irons.   
  
  Q. Was it quite spontaneous and quite blustery rather than constant wind?  
 RETIEF GOOSEN: I would say there was times that it was gusting a bit, yeah. It wasn't easy. I putted well in these conditions, made a few good putts and par saves and that kept my score together.   
  
  Q. Lovely to finish off with a birdie on 9.  
 RETIEF GOOSEN: True, yeah, I hit a good drive, laid up poorly with a 3-iron into the rough and hit a good wedge shot out of the rough close.  
  
  Q. Any problems with the balls on the greens today?  
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Well, it's borderline. I think the green that could possibly become problems is the 12th, the pin is right on a slope there. I'm quite surprised they put it there. This morning, Louis's ball was already moving a little bit. It's going to be interesting to see what happens.   
  
  Q. Solid start, 3-under par for today. Tell us how difficult your game was.   
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, it was tough out there today. I drove it nicely off the tee, so I hit a lot of shots off the fairway. But it was tough to get it close to the flags. It was windy conditions. It was difficult. Putting wasn't easy, you're getting blown all over the place, so it's tough.   
  
  Q. Solid start for a first round, it's your birthday today; what are your expectations for the next three rounds?  
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Well, who knows what the conditions are going to be like. I think it's going to be windy again tomorrow, so just have to keep playing away and try and fight the conditions and see where you are come the weekend.   
  
  Q. Looks pretty tough out there. Describe what it's like for the players?  
 RETIEF GOOSEN: I was born in 1969 so I shot a 69. Yeah, a good opening score on a tough day today. It was great.  
  
  Q. There's been some complaints about the rough. As a former champion, here at this course, how is the course actually changed?   
 RETIEF GOOSEN: The rough is brutal. You hit in the rough, you're lucky to get on to the green at times. But today, they set the course up for the conditions. They moved uses up on pretty much every hole, and yeah, if you miss the fairways, then yeah, you've still got a problem getting on to the greens.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT