U.S. SENIOR OPEN
June 27, 2019
Retief Goosen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  That was rather good.  
RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, it was a very inconsistent round.  I played some great holes, and I played a lot of really bad ones.  Yeah, I didn't hit the ball all that great, and when I did hit it close, I missed the putts.  But I made two long ones, too.   
Overall happy with the start.  Hopefully I can build on that for the rest of the week.   
 Q.  You just played with a guy who shot his age again.  
RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, I mean, Tom played really well again.  No, he's very consistent.  It's amazing.  Hopefully when I'm his age, I'll be shooting that kind of score.   
 Q.  When you said inconsistency, what was, I guess, the issue when you did --  
RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, you know, I hit a lot of really bad shots, and then when I hit -- there was a few holes back here that I hit some really good ones and missed the putts.  16 and 17 I missed a six-footer and a three-footer, and then I made two bombs on the back nine.   
But still missed a few fairways here and there quite badly, so just need to really tighten it up.  I started hitting some better shots towards the end, but just need to get consistency going.   
 Q.  Is this one of those things that sort of happens out of the blue, playing pretty well coming in --  
RETIEF GOOSEN: I didn't hit the ball all that great last week, but I putted really well.  And today I hit the ball similar.  But like I say, I made a few good birdies, lots of good birdies, but also some really poor bogeys out there.   
But overall I'm happy with the round.  I think probably 6-, 7-under will lead by the end of the day, and just keep going from here on, of course.  They had a lot of rain last night.  The course is very wet.  There's some holes that played really long.  So I'm seeing the course firming up as the week goes on.   
 Q.  It's a pretty straightforward golf course.  Do you like it?  
RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, of course it's good.  It's reasonably generous off the tee.  If you do miss the fairways, obviously you get punished.  But it's all about the greens.  If you hit it in the wrong spots here, you leave yourself some tricky putts.   
 Q.  Are you still basking in the glow a little bit of Hall of Fame induction and things of that nature?  That was probably --  
RETIEF GOOSEN: I mean, it was a great honor, and I think I'm slowly getting over it now.  I'm still sort of celebrating, but I think next week is a week off where I'll sit down and go through everything a little bit more and celebrate with some of the friends I haven't, so it'll be fun.   
 Q.  Was the whole thing sort of a pinch-yourself moment when all the people who were coming in who were already in the Hall?  
RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, I mean, you've got all these great, great players that are sitting there in front of you.  It's not easy talking in front of those guys, what they've achieved.  But it's a great honor, and for the selection committee to get me in there is a very proud moment.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT