WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 6, 2010
Retief Goosen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   COLIN MURRAY: Retief, thanks for joining us here in the media center at the Bridgestone Invitational, a 4-under par 66 today, 7-under par for the tournament. I know you didn't finish the way you wanted to but still a heck of a round out there. 
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, I was happy. I got off to a nice start and played pretty solid. Yeah, besides the last hole, I hit a good drive and just had an 8-iron to the green and pulled it and then hit a poor chip and a good putt that didn't go in. Happy with the round. I've not done so well around this course in the past, so it's nice to play well for two rounds and see how I can do on the weekend.
 COLIN MURRAY: Could you talk about how the golf course was playing this morning? I know you mentioned up there it seemed like the wind was starting to pick up a little bit. 
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, this morning the first nine holes there was no wind at all to talk about, and then on the back nine, yeah, it started picking up. 16 actually played pretty hard. When we played it, it was playing straight into us, and that was a long hole off the back there today. 

 Q. We were talking about the course kind of frustrating you or stymying you. What is it about it that's caused you problems?
 RETIEF GOOSEN: It's a good course. Every part of your game needs to be good here, driving especially. It's a good driving golf course. You need to hit it on the fairway, otherwise you're struggling. I think the difference is here is I'm putting pretty well. I didn't drive it so good yesterday but caught a few breaks, and today I drove it a bit better. But the putting has been pretty good the last two rounds. 

 Q. What is it about the course that has in the past maybe hurt you a little bit?
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Just not playing well enough, definitely. If one part of your game is not good enough around this course, you struggle. Like I say, driving has probably been the thing I struggled with around this course the most in the past. 

 Q. Are you at all surprised at where you are right now? Looking back at the way you've played in recent months?
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, I've been playing quite consistent this year, which is quite nice. I've just not been really winning. Obviously you want to win. But I've had a lot of top 10s this year, but that doesn't mean anything. It's that No. 1 that counts. This would be a great event to get my first win for the year. I don't think I'm going to be too far off the lead by the end of the day, and we'll see what I can do around here on the weekend. 

 Q. Today's round a couple of key shots or sequences for you?
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Well, I think the turnaround was on the 4th today. I hit a good drive down the fairway and had a lot of mud on the ball and hit a 6-iron that went probably 25 yards left of the green, and I chipped it in. So that was sort of the turnaround. You're looking at definitely maybe making bogey there and chipping it in there sort of turned my round around and kept it going. 

 Q. Do you think this is a good golf course for you to get ready for next week?
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Oh, yeah. This golf course is -- obviously next week I have not played that course before. I was injured last time. But that's a tough golf course. Zach tells me it's one of the toughest courses he's played, so you need to drive it well around any major championship, so this is a good course to prepare for next week definitely.

 Q. Five of the last six majors have been won by first-time winners. Do you feel that there's a growing -- bigger group of legitimate contenders at every major that have chances of winning?
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, I mean, definitely at a major I think probably half of the players that tee it up in the field has got definitely a chance of winning. Yeah, I think most of the players sort of feel now that everybody has a bit of a chance of winning a major out there. Obviously Louis, I know, was playing very well this year, especially the first half of the year he played very good golf. So in a way it wasn't for me a big surprise that he won. I knew he was a good player and it was only a matter of time for him breaking through. 
 COLIN MURRAY: Retief, thanks for your time. Play well on the weekend. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT