TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 26, 2010
Retief Goosen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Retief Goosen here with the 6-under 64 and six birdies, no bogeys. Tell us about your day.
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah. I got off to a nice start, hit it close on the first and made a nice birdie and made it look better. 
 But the greens are obviously a lot better in the morning than they are in the afternoon, a little bit quicker and not quite as crusty, and no wind. 
 So yeah, felt like you had to make a lot of birdies. A lot of players did make a lot of birdies out there this morning.

 Q. So the conditions today do you think it'll be a little bit tougher to score in the afternoon?
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Compared to the morning, yeah, definitely. Yeah, I mean the first sort of 13 holes there was no wind, and then suddenly it picked up. 
 So yeah, it's the same as yesterday. You know, yesterday morning was quiet and then it blew in the afternoon, so it gets tricky.

 Q. You're 9-under. The leader right now, Justin, hadn't teed off yet. He's 14. Where do you think you're going to fit in on Sunday?
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Who knows? We'll see what the weather holds to. Yeah, I don't know. I expect probably to be there sort of five, six shots off the lead, I reckon. 
 I think Justin is on form at the moment, and I can't see him shooting anything over par today.

 Q. Thanks for your time.
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Thanks. 
 Yeah. I got off to a nice start, a couple of birdies on the first three holes, and a solid front nine, 3-under, and there was no wind for the first sort of 12 holes to talk about. 
 You know, guys were scoring after then. It's just these last little five holes, we started getting out there it was getting more tricky.

 Q. Not having played here before, do you now find yourself a little more comfortable?
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah. I'm struggling a bit with the putt to the greens, the putt into the grain is very slow. I'm struggling to get myself to hitting it hard. 
 It's a nice course. I like it. All the shots are in front of you, you need to play all the shots. Today was obviously a lot nicer, I made a few putts, but I probably played it better tee to green as well than I did the first couple of days.

 Q. What prompted you to come to this tournament?
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Well, I missed three events early on this season due to an injury, and I think I had to make up, get some events up from my contract. And so I had to throw this one in and dump the BMW in Munich, because I normally play the BMW in Munich and decided, well, since I'm here, I'm going to play here, and so far it's a good choice. 

 Q. Did you hear good things about this tournament from people, because a lot of them have been talking about how the word of mouth has really kind of started getting more --
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah. It's a great event. I've seen it many times on TV and seen how many years it's been here now, 15, 20, whatever years. 
 And it's a great event. I'm glad I'm here. It's a good course; I like it, and I'm sure I'll be back.

 Q. Do you like your position for tomorrow regardless of what happens this afternoon or do you think you're too far?
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah. I think I'm a bit too far. Justin is playing really well. I can't see him playing anything over par today, so you know, I'm going to be more than five shots off the lead, I reckon.

 Q. (Indiscernible). 
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, I did. I broke a finger just behind the knuckle, and it still gets sort of sore. It's been eight, nine weeks. And I just can't hit too many balls. After that sort of 20, 30 balls, it starts getting sore, so I need to really pace myself.

 Q. Anything you can do for it, ice it or whatever?
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah. I'm icing and resting as much as I can, you know, and just try and not put myself in too many difficult positions where I have to hack out of the rough.

 Q. Now that you're done for the day, will you take it easy, maybe catch the football match?
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, it's starting at 2, so I'm sure there will be a lot of attention on that. 
 Yeah, I'll just shower up this afternoon, but I will relax. It's pretty hot. I think I won't do too much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT