TRANSITIONS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 18, 2010
Retief Goosen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Pretty good finish?  
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, it wasn't easy out there. Windy, cross-wind on the whole course, that's not easy to judge your shots. First hole, I hit a driver, 3-wood next to the green, chipped and putt. The other par 5, birdie, as well.   
 But from there on it was a bit of a struggle. I got it up-and-down on a few holes to save par, and then, yeah, you didn't really expect to play these last three holes 2-under. They are playing pretty tough.  
  
  Q. Talk about 16, because you're left of the cart path there, but you flirted with the bunker but turned out pretty good.   
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, that was a sort of nice cut-up 8-iron. When you are in the pine straw, you generally get a pretty good lie. So I was generally chuffed at that shot.   
  
  Q. And on 17, what was the wind like? Was that a big factor on that tee, because you stuck it about four feet?  
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, it's a hard tee shot. The flag is on the left and the wind is in on the left. I had a pretty good 5-wood down there to get it to four feet. Pretty happy, that's for sure, to finish with two birdies and a par these last few holes.  
  
  Q. A great start on a tough golf course.   
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, obviously a great start. It's a great day today. My grandmother just turned 100 today, as well. So hopefully be around for a few more years.  
  
  Q. Is she back home?  
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, back in South Africa, unfortunately I can't be there for the party this weekend, but it's nice to see she got to that age.   
  
  Q. That's good genes and good things for you.   
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Well, I hope so, yes. Some days, the way you hit the golf ball, you're not really sure how long you're going to live, but, yeah, hopefully I can make it to the seniors.   
 You get off to a great start, it was tricky out there today, you could easily have not played a good round out there today. But got off to a nice start on the first sort of six holes, and then in the middle part of the round was scrambling.   
 16 was a bit of a bonus, I had a poor tee shot but managed to hit a good shot out of the left to make birdie.   
 17 is playing hard. Hit a good 5-wood to about four feet, five feet, so it was a good finish.  
  
  Q. What's the biggest challenge?  
 RETIEF GOOSEN: The wind. It's playing cross on the whole golf course, every shot, you've got a cross-wind. There's no holes you're really playing downwind or straight into the wind.   
  
  Q. You really seem to be comfortable here?  
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Well, so far, so good, yes. I'm looking forward to improving my round or improving as the week goes on.  
  
  Q. Does this course just set up well for you, since you've had success here.   
 RETIEF GOOSEN: It's a hard course. You've got to play well. I won't say I'm playing very well, but to my eye it sets up very good and I tend to see the shots around here pretty good.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT