COMMERCIALBANK QATAR MASTERS PRESENTED BY DOLPHIN ENERGY
January 30, 2010
Retief Goosen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Tell us how good a round that was?
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Oh, it was a great round. I struggled a bit the first two rounds but today I was a little bit more comfortable out there and hit it nicely and made a few putts. I hit it close to the flags today and if you do that you have a chance for birdies.

 Q. And yet I heard you say that you were perhaps a little disappointed that it was only 66?
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Well, you shouldn't complain really but there comes a time when you know you had a chance for a really low round out there and I messed up a little bit on the par fives out there and missed a couple of birdie putts that I should have made. But overall I am very happy with the round but it means I am going to have to shoot something under 65 tomorrow to have a chance to win.

 Q. Despite these glorious conditions, nobody seems to be running away just yet so you are in a good position?
 RETIEF GOOSEN: True. I am probably thinking that something around 12 under par will lead at the end of the day which will leave me six off the lead. But the course is tricky and the greens are firm and they have the pins tucked in corners so you have to hit a perfect shot to hit it close.

 Q. I guess that shows what a challenging course this is?
 RETIEF GOOSEN: It is a great track. The first round was a bit of a tough time out there and if you missed the fairways you had no chance but the last two days the chances have been there to shoot low scores. Today I hit a lot of fairways which gave me a lot of chances.

 Q. How have you seen both the course and tournament develop over the years?
 RETIEF GOOSEN: I still think this is the hardest course of the three we play out here in the Middle East and it shows by the scoring that if it gets windy it is a really tough track. It is a good golf course and I like it and the players all enjoy coming here.

 Q. And I guess as an event it has grown too?
 RETIEF GOOSEN: True, Doha is growing by the year too, just like Dubai, but hopefully not too fast, but it is a great place and Andy Stevens and his crew put on a great event here. It is a wonderful field we have here, you can see that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT