PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 17, 2009
Retief Goosen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MICHAEL GIBBONS: Retief, thanks for coming in. Give us your thoughts on an outstanding round of 64 today to get you in the lead.   
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, the last two days have obviously been great. After last week, which was a disappointing week for me, flying-wise and putting-wise, there's no secret that it's all falling in this week.   
  
  Q. After the Saturday at The Presidents Cup --  
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, I didn't play on the Saturday afternoon -- Presidents Cup, and I spent about three hours on the driving range hitting balls. And on Sunday, I actually hit the ball very nicely. I played 17 holes and missed one green and one fairway over 17 holes, but I made one put. That's why I lost.  
 So I came here not thinking my putting was great, that's for sure. But yeah, since the first round, everything went really well. Some of the putts are really slow and struggling to hit it hard enough but I'm making my fair share that's for sure, scoring well, keeping the ball in play and making birdies on the birdie holes out there and not making too many mistakes. I've had two or three bogeys this week, so it's interesting golf at the moment.   
  
  Q. Inaudible?   
 RETIEF GOOSEN: You know, I think it was more a bit of a rhythm thing. I felt my timing, I was getting a little bit quick, and even this week, I've noticed a few things are a little bit quick. So I I've just been working on that, trying to keep my timing in.   
  
  Q. Inaudible?  
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, it's amazing, the last two years have been very disappointing on The European Tour. Obviously since last year this time, my golf has started getting a little bit better. Last year has been a little more consistent, putting better. So, yeah, it's really nice to get another good round in tomorrow and see if I can pull it off.   
  
  Q. (After your experience last week, what would you think of this course as a venue for a Ryder Cup)?   
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Well, you know, last week's golf course Presidents Cup was quite similar, not a very long course, a lot of birdies, a lot of excitement. And the crowd liked that. So I think this course could be similar to that, a lot of birdies, could be exciting for the people. I think the rough probably needs to be a little bit more up, but there are some good holes out there.   
 I think this course could do it. Like I say, it's an exciting course, a lot of water around, a good spectator course, a lot of banking around the fairways and greens. So it could be.   
  
  Q. (What do you think about the change on 17 at St. Andrews)?  
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Well, I hope they keep the forward tees, because if they play into the wind, then we won't reach in two.   
 I don't know, that hole has been such an exciting hole over the years anyway. I don't know why they wanted to do that. Personally I don't think that -- that's a great hole anyway, so much can happen on it, and next year, obviously we are going back to the smaller grooves, as well. So it's going to become even more difficult to hit that green.   
 You know, the whole golf course isn't all about one hole, but I don't think it's the right thing. But yeah, if you play it downwind, then you're hitting a driver and a 7- or 8-iron, but into the wind, couldn't reach. Depending on conditions, it could be a good change or it could be a bad change.   
  
  Q. Inaudible?  
 RETIEF GOOSEN: No, they will probably bring it in. It makes the second shot an angle more, but make it more open on the left, now you're in off the fairway, where in the past you were 20 yards up if you were coming out of the rough. I don't know which one is the harder, I would think the one in the rough is the harder shot then 20 yards back off the fairway.   
  
  Q. Inaudible?  
 RETIEF GOOSEN: I can't remember. I don't know, I'm sure I've made a triple there before.   
 On the range, there's nothing you can do about it until you start playing better. If you play well, you move up. If you play bad, you move back. So like everything else, you've just got to play well, and if you play well, you're going to get rewarded.   
 We all think we should be there, we are trying.   
  
  Q. Inaudible?  
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Well, it's not easy. You've still got to hit the shot. There's a lot of water out on the golf course and a few bad swings, you can make some big numbers. Obviously by the end of the day, the guy that really is still leading or close to the lead, he is going to be a good putt error one of the best putters in the field this week. I'm making my fair share of putts this week.   
  
  Q. Inaudible?  
 RETIEF GOOSEN: This course, you're thinking birdie every hole. There's a few holes like 7 that's a birdie/par hole, you want to make par on that hole. The tees are up so that makes scoring as low as it is this week.   
  
  Q. Inaudible?  
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, you know, last week's greens were quick funny enough in The Presidents Cup, they were just` a fraction quick, and that's sort of helping me this week, the greens were very quick last week. I struggled with my pace. The longer putts I'm still struggling with, but anything inside ten and 15 feet, I've been making a lot of them.   
  
  Q. Inaudible?  
 RETIEF GOOSEN: I know Tony and David are still there. Yeah, as amateurs we played on the same team.   
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: Good luck tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT