DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 6, 2009
Retief Goosen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DOUG MILNE: We'd like to welcome Retief Goosen to the interview room. Congratulations on a strong 3-under 68 today, puts you tied for first place heading into the final round tomorrow. A couple comments on your day and how you're feeling heading into tomorrow.   
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, I'm happy with the way I played today. I hit the ball fairly solid off the tee, was never really in any trouble, and very happy with the round, yeah. It was a bit of a disappointing finish on the last hole, but nice to be up there, and looking forward to tomorrow.   
  
  Q. On the final hole did you think at all about laying up and going for the birdie that way?  
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, definitely. I knew it was just a nice, solid 5-wood, but I know if you go long, it's such a hard chip shot. I blocked a 5-wood, and I was in between my bunker shot what I wanted to do, really. I had to try and fly it all the way up that hill. But in the end I was trying to hit a little bit of a low bunker shot and let it run up the hill and just caught it a little bit heavy. It wasn't really the way I wanted to hit the shot.   
 But I'm happy. We've still got one round to go, and there's a lot of golf left out there tomorrow.   
  
  Q. Could you just comment on the wind, what role the wind played in your game today?  
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, it was definitely the windiest day so far today and cooler, as well. Shots into the wind played really long, and downwind the greens were so firm you struggled to stop the ball. So it was tricky this afternoon.   
 But there was still a lot of good scores out there. The guys managed to get it in the hole somehow.   
 I'm happy to be on top of the leaderboard, and I hope for a good day tomorrow and see where we stand going into next week.  
  
  Q. Can you talk about your year a little bit? How much confidence did you maybe bring here? Is this a course that you like, suits your eye?  
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Well, I played very poorly last week, struggled with my driving. I came up here, I was on the driving range here Monday morning hitting balls for three hours. Actually in the last couple of holes last week I thought I found something. I hit a couple of good drives in the last couple of holes last week, and I came back Monday and just practiced out on the range and played a practice round on Tuesday and felt a lot better.  
 I've been driving it nicely this week. The last couple of times I've played here, I've played terrible, so it's nice to play well around this golf course. I like it. It's a good course. The greens are hard and fast, so that's the way I like to putt, see them roll on the greens, so I'm looking forward to tomorrow.   
  
  Q. Is there any sense of relief that Tiger is not high on the leaderboard?  
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Well, the players are happy that he's not up top of the leaderboard. The sponsors are unhappy that he's not on top of the leaderboard. Yeah, you know, he's the guy that brings in the ratings for us and the crowds. So if he struggles, then it's like the tournament doesn't mean much. It's nice to see there's a lot of other guys up there that's playing really well, and I think it's still going to be a good fight out there tomorrow for the title.   
  
  Q. What do you think it's going to take to win it tomorrow? I mean, that's a very crowded leaderboard, and you're going to be in the final group I assume.   
 RETIEF GOOSEN: There's got to be, what, 20 players within three, four shots. I think it's going to be a low round tomorrow if conditions are similar to today. Somebody is going to have to shoot like 6-under or 7-under probably to win. Obviously the pins will be in the toughest positions out there, so scoring will be a little bit harder than it was today.   
 But if there's no wind out there tomorrow, then you're going to need to shoot a low one to have a chance to win.   
 DOUG MILNE: Retief, we appreciate your time, and best of luck tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT