DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 5, 2009
Retief Goosen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   Q. Can you talk about your round a little bit today, please?  
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, slow start, 1-over through 8, and then 5-under in the last 10. So yeah, it was nice to get it going a little bit on the front nine, and with two guys who are playing so well. It looked like I was shooting 80 at one stage. It's been an amazing threeball, the three of us. We've played very well together and sort of worked off each other's shots and putts, and it's been a nice couple of days.  
  
  Q. How is the course playing for you?  
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Course is getting harder and faster, and the greens were obviously a little bit softer this morning comparing to yesterday afternoon. I think scoring will probably be a fraction more difficult today than it was yesterday basically.   
  
  Q. Did you guys feed off each other at all?  
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, that's what I said. I think the three of us really worked off each other's shots and putts.   
  
  Q. 67, 64 on the first two rounds, great playing.   
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, 65, 67. At one stage I didn't feel like I was playing that well. The other two guys were going so low at one stage. But yeah, we had a great threeball, we fed off each other and we made a lot of putts. 34-under in our threeball is a pretty good game.  
  
  Q. Tell me about that putt on 8, up and over the ridge.   
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, I stood over it, and I knew I had the right line. But it's one of those you're just trying to get close. Yeah, it just jump in the hole like a rabbit.  
  
  Q. You've been close this year, you came really close in Canada, had a putt to win there. What do you feel like you need to do to push it through this week?  
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Well, you know, keep going. The course is only going to get tougher and it's going to dry out more and more. These greens, I'm sure by Monday, they're going to be dead. It's going to get tougher and tougher out there. I need to work on my driving a little bit. I missed a lot of fairways out there, and if these greens start getting firm, you can't do anything from the rough.   
  
  Q. Well, you know how to play firm, fast golf courses, a couple U.S. Opens you've got.   
 RETIEF GOOSEN: That's right, yeah. But you know, you've still got to hit the shots. It doesn't matter how much experience you have. Yeah, the faster they get, the better. I like them.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT