RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 27, 2009
Retief Goosen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Retief, what a wild day, up and then down and up with the eagle. What a freaky day.   
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah. I knew 18 wasn't going to do it.   
 At the beginning of the day I thought -- or when we started the fourth round, I thought that 19 or 20 was going to have to be the number, and I suppose 14, 15 and 16 cost me the tournament. Made two bogeys and a 4 on a par-4. That was the end of it for me really.   
 And still, when I saw that Anthony Kim finished at 15, so I thought to myself, you know, I've gotta eagle, and that's it. And I took a chance on my second and hit a good shot and obviously I had a good putt. Still, I never thought it was going to be good enough even to get in the playoffs, and it did. And I had my chances to win, and unfortunately hit a poor putt.   
  
  Q. You really had to drive it in the fairway today, and that was shown the way you played earlier in the round where you hit every fairway, and then in that last stretch in the middle of the Back 9 where you missed a couple of fairways, and that was very costly, wasn't it?  
 RETIEF GOOSEN: I played nicely all week. I'm very happy with the way I'm playing lately, and I've had chances to win in the last four tournaments I've played in, and I've just gotta keep going and hopefully it's going to come my way in one shot.   
  
  Q. Good luck on the Bridgestone and on to the PGA after that.   
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Thanks very much.   
  
  Q. What about the week? Obviously patience have been tested with on-again, off-again and the rain delays and so forth.   
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Well, yeah. We had that at the U.S. Open, which was just an even longer week, and yeah, everything these days are long weeks. Yeah, I'm looking forward to a normal week.   
  
  Q. Yeah. Have you been playing the game long enough to where that doesn't bother you, the long breaks, the rain delays, that you're able to keep your game the way --  
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah. I'm lucky, you know. We just stay down the road, so 10 minutes back to the hotel, so that way you can break some of your time up, going back and then coming back again.   
 Yeah, it's a long week, a lot of wake up at 5:30 and jet lag to catch up every morning at 5:30, so it hasn't been a short week, that's for sure.   
  
  Q. And lastly, I know the locals would probably want to know, aside from the rain, your experience here in Canada.   
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Oh, I love the course. I played well last year as well, and had a chance to shoot some really good scores and didn't, and I came in this week feeling good, I'm playing well, and I'm glad the way my game is going. And like I say, I've been leading or within one or two shots of the lead in the last four events and haven't been able to pull it off, so I need to just pray a little bit harder on Sundays, or Monday today.   
  
  Q. Thank you.   
 RETIEF GOOSEN: I played well. I played well. I knew 19 or 20 was going to be the winning score and bogeys on 14 and 15 and par on 16, that sort of -- I felt I was out of it, and I was lucky to get in the playoff at the end. I'm not too disappointed. I had my chance, and his worked out, and end of day.   
  
  Q. You had two long waits, coming in after you signed your scorecard and another one on the bunker after the first hole. Did that affect your rhythm at all?  
 RETIEF GOOSEN: No, not at all. No. I mean you're warmed up. It's warm out here, and it's definitely not a problem, but I'm happy with the way I'm playing, you know. The last four events I had chances to win and haven't quite pulled it off, so one day it'll probably come again.   
  
  Q. Final question for you. You said at the beginning of the year once you turned 40 in February that you were really rededicating yourself, and you have a win. Now you have a second in the playoff, really strong showing at the majors. And this is kind of the new version of you it seems like.   
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Well, looks like life begins at 40, yeah. Vijay started playing great golf at 40. Kenny Perry is playing some of his best golf. So something to look forward to, so hopefully my best is still to come.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT