KITCHENAID SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 23, 2019
Retief Goosen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
RETIEF GOOSEN: I got off to a great start, 3-under through four holes, and then I hit a few poor shots in the middle part and around, but last few holes I hit some good iron shots and a couple of good drives.  So it's something to take into tomorrow.   
 Q.  The wind picked up after you went back out, but were the greens more receptive because of the rain, any easier?  
RETIEF GOOSEN: Well, we were lucky we restarted 14 and 15 it was no wind, and then the wind just started on 16.  And then when it really blew, blowing it downwind on 17 and 18, which made it lucky.  I mean, 17 I hit an 8-iron, 9-iron in and a gap wedge into 18.  But so the wind has made a bit of a difference to the course now.   
 Q.  Do you think -- how do you think the wind might affect the late round, the afternoon round people?  
RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, these guys, this afternoon, it looks like it's going to be definitely a lot trickier than we had it this morning.  We couldn't have had it any easier, especially when we started out, there was not a breath of wind, and the greens were still fresh.  So birdies were there to be made early on.   
And, yeah, this afternoon looks like the guys are going to get a bit of wind and maybe (indiscernible) tomorrow.   
 Q.  This course itself with its history and the way it's set up, how does this compare with what you would normally see or see a lot of on Champions Tour?  
RETIEF GOOSEN: Definitely the rough is the bigger issue.  At places it's really fickle.  You struggle to get to the green.  And if you can get it onto the green, you struggle to stop it on the green.  The greens are so small here.  So driving is very, very important.  I didn't drive it too well today.  Missed a lot of fairways.  But hopefully tomorrow I'll get into the better rhythm.   
Yeah, the big difference to the normal events I played so far this year is the rough.  So far we haven't had anything close to this.   
 Q.  Are you enjoying being a rookie (indiscernible) Tour?  
RETIEF GOOSEN: I don't know.  I mean, I know a lot of these guys' age, age doesn't really mean much.  We're all competitors out here.  We all want to beat each other.  Obviously I do have sort of a little advantage that I still have a little bit of distance off the tee, but you've still got to hit it on the fairway to score.   
 Q.  A lot of talk about level par lately.  How do you putt into perspective of 3-under?  
RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, it's hard to say, really.  You know, last time it was 7-over the winning score here.  I don't know what conditions were.  We could have a lot of wind for the next three days, which can turn the scores around.  I think today here (indiscernible) easy on the pin placings, so if you know you hit the right shot, you're going to be close.  So I think it got a lot tougher out there, so I only expect it to get more difficult.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT