THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 18, 2009
Retief Goosen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You're in handy position after three rounds. Can you talk about your day?   
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, I got off to a great start and played a bit of stupid golf on the 7th, really. I was trying to get a bit too greedy there with my third shot. I should have really laid up and given myself a chance of a 5 with a wedge and a putt.  
 But after that I just told myself I've got to keep hanging in there, it was getting tougher out there, the wind was picking up as the tide was coming in.  
 The back nine, 12 was an okay bogey; 14 was a very bad bogey and I hit a poor 4-iron in there and didn't get it up-and-down.  
 I think the putt I holed on 15 sort of really made me feel good that I'm still in this event at even par. If I can just have one birdie going in and finish it under par, you're right in it and I ended up eagling 17, which was great. I hit a nice drive off the tee and a nice 5-iron in there and holed a good putt.  
  
  Q. With kind of the unpredictable nature of the leaderboard, the tournament's wide open.   
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, depends on what's going to happen tomorrow. If it's going to be windy like this again, I still think I'm going to have to shoot something under par maybe to have a chance to win. Depends on how the flags are tomorrow, but they were tough again today, so I expect them to be tough again tomorrow.  
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, which is disappointing. The last couple of events I was in the lead and just off the lead and didn't do it. But, you know, third time lucky. Hopefully this is the one that I would really want to win.  
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 RETIEF GOOSEN: I just played bad. A couple of bad shots, not putting well enough. Today I putted nicely, and I hit the ball better today than I did yesterday and the day before. So I'm feeling pretty good going into tomorrow.  
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, it's going to be tough again tomorrow. I think they're probably try to see somewhere around 3-under winning score.  
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, it's not easy. I mean, you keep telling yourself you've just got to hang in there and play for pars. But it's so hard. Tomorrow is going to be the same thing. You're going to have to be very patient and just wait for it. If you hit a good shot, maybe hole a 20-, 30-footer and make a birdie that way. But some of these flags are impossible to get close to.  
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, definitely I think so. So I'm going to go out there tomorrow and try on every shot and see what happens.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT