THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 17, 2009
Retief Goosen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You got a bad break at 17.  
RETIEF GOOSEN: I should have hit 7-iron. Big change to yesterday.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, I hit it nicely down the left side and I saw it bounce right and I thought, well, that's perfect. And it must have pitched on a downslope and ran about 80 yards. It was disappointing to see where it finished. And I didn't hit a good third, my third shot. But I'm happy to walk away with a par, at least.  
  
  Q. What's the state of your game right now?  
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, I don't feel like I'm swinging it great. But I putted quite well in these last two days. I'm going to go hit a few balls this afternoon and just try to smooth out a few things and go out there tomorrow and see what happens.  
  
  Q. Have you got your coach with you this week?  
 RETIEF GOOSEN: No, Gregor is not here. This is where he grew up.   
  
  Q. He should have had the inside track?  
 RETIEF GOOSEN: No, I think he's sitting at home watching it on TV.  
  
  Q. Did he give you some tips?  
 RETIEF GOOSEN: No, he didn't. I mean, what can he say? Keep it on the fairway, you know. The course was tough today. I felt the pins had sort of a revenge day today after yesterday. Today it felt like every green was almost the toughest pin you can have on every hole. I would say the course is playing a good seven shots harder than yesterday.  
  
  Q. Was it hard to adjust from the benign conditions yesterday to the conditions today?  
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah. Well, you expected this. Even yesterday when it was calm, I was practicing my low shots, just in case it starts blowing. But, yeah, it's much harder today, the course, so we'll just have to -- you know, looks like we're going to be two or three off the lead by the end of the day and a long way to go.   
  
  Q. How do you cope with what happened at the 8th?  
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, I don't know, there was something between him and his caddie. Yeah, I made my putt for par.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT