THE BARCLAYS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 11, 2009
Retief Goosen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. A 13-under, was that a real test of patience out there?
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, the front nine compared to the back nine was a bit up-and-down unfortunately, I had a few bad shots which cost me but happy where I am. One shot off the lead, it's not a bad place to be going into the final round.

 Q. A couple of tough tee shots for you at the beginning of the back nine, was it frustrating when that happened? 
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, I mean, 14 was bad, straight downwind, holed that today, you are looking for a good drive down there. It wasn't a hard tee shot. I just pulled it, took a big bounce and went into that long stuff. So lost ball there and ended up making a good six. 

 Q. Were you feeling very comfortable about your game when you came here today after that stunning display after the first two days, were you really looking forward to today's play?
 RETIEF GOOSEN: I wouldn't say I was hitting the ball great all week, but I was putting well. I played well on the front nine but the back nine was up-and-down. It was nice to have a good finish. The last four holes are playing tough on this course today into the wind.

 Q. Are you looking forward into the challenge tomorrow? It is a great course and everyone it is really talking it up, the standard here at Loch Lomond. 
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, obviously the weather is going to change, as well, so it could be a very interesting day tomorrow. See what's going to happen. I think tomorrow is sort of what we expect to see around here, rain and wind, and so the course is going to play totally different. 

 Q. Talking about your front nine, it looked like an effortless 33, is that how it felt?
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, I hit a bad tee on the first, but a great second and the putt didn't go in. The front nine was nice and easy and sort of solid. 
 Yeah, the back nine, got off on No. 10 with a bad chip there out of the rough, and not a lot happened after that. Especially 13, looking at a birdie there, definitely today downwind, it was a driver and a 4-iron, and making six there sort of felt like you lost a few shots to the field.
 I'm happy with my finish, the way I finished the last few holes and one shot off the lead is a good place to be.

 Q. Did you have to regroup on 14, and as you say, you came up with a strong finish?
 RETIEF GOOSEN: 14, you think it's definitely a birdie hole, 13 and 14, but when you go through those holes without a birdie, you sort of feel the last four holes you are going to have to play really well, which is difficult playing into the wind, and I did. I played them well and I made a nice birdie on 17.

 Q. Thoughts going into the final round one behind?
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, just a nice place to be. Maybe I can come-from-behind this time. The last time I lost it from the front, so maybe from behind this time. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT