BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 27, 2009
Retief Goosen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   SCOTT CROCKETT: Many thanks, as always, for coming in and joining us, not quite the finish you would have wanted, but overall your thoughts on the day and taking a lead into the final round of the BMW International Open. 
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Yes, it's always nice going into a tournament with the lead. Especially the final round, and yeah, I'm very much looking forward to tomorrow, and you know, so far we've been lucky with the weather, we are finishing on the same day we start which is nice. And I'm looking forward to get off to a good round, good start again tomorrow. 
 SCOTT CROCKETT: It was a very solid start today, certainly, you couldn't have been any better, you must be pleased with your start.
 RETIEF GOOSEN: First five holes, very solid. Played very solid. Hit driver and a wedge on the first and made a good birdie there. And 4 and 5, you want to give yourself chances, really they are the shortest holes on the course. I 3-putted 6, but nice birdie on 9 and 11. 
 Then from there on, I played a little bit scrappy. Especially 13, I drove it just in the semi there and hit it too hard on the second and made bogey. 
 Great chip-in on No. 14, a little chip-and-run shot up the bank there with a 5-iron, and I made a good par save on 15 from probably about 25, 30 feet, and a couple of good birdies.
 And obviously 18 was disappointing, I had a very, very bad lie in the bunker there and half-plugged. I tried to squeeze a 6-iron out of that lie over the rough in the middle, and you know, just couldn't really get a hold of the ball out of that lie. I should have just chopped it out really with a sand iron and hit a 6-iron on to the green and maybe gave myself a chance for a birdie. So, we learn. 
 SCOTT CROCKETT: That aside, the 6 is probably the talking point, a very short one. What exactly happened there? 
 RETIEF GOOSEN: I don't know myself. I hit the ball, yeah, it was a foot putt. The ball just jumped great out right on me and didn't even touch the hole. It obviously was in a footprint or in the corner of a footprint when I hit it, and yeah, it was a shock. 
 SCOTT CROCKETT: And no bug issues today? 
 RETIEF GOOSEN: No. 
 SCOTT CROCKETT: Good. Excellent. 

 Q. I'll rely on your memory because mine is going, have you had any battles with Bernhard in the past?
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Not that I can remember. Obviously I played with Bernhard quite a few times, but I can't remember if I actually played with him in Germany. So it will be nice tomorrow. I'm sure we'll got a lot of coming out to watch and it will be an exciting round of golf. 

 Q. New putter still in your bag?
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, still using that. It's still behaving except for a couple of holes but otherwise I'm very happy.

 Q. So you're going to leave it there for a while now?
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Until it starts misbehaving, yes. 
 I got it about three years ago from TaylorMade. I played a couple of practice rounds with it but I've never actually put it in for tournament play. 
 Last week I putted very well, as well as at the Masters. I just didn't make any putts. I hit a lot of putts that didn't go in. I wouldn't say I was really struggling with my putting last week. It's just this week they are going in. 
 SCOTT CROCKETT: Retief, good luck tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT