THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 9, 2009
Retief Goosen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Can you first off just start with going into tomorrow how you feel, where you stand? Obviously there's still some players out there, but are you pleased with your positioning going into the tomorrow?  
 RETIEF GOOSEN: You always want to be one or two shots better, don't you? Yeah, I had a poor finish. I had a perfect tee shot on the last. And I was stuck in between a hard 9 and soft 8. I went for a soft 8 and made a poor swing. Bad bogey on the last. Would have been nice to finish at 7.   
 Now I'm five behind, depending on how Alex finishes really on how far behind we're going to be.  
  
  Q. Tiger made a little bit of a run, and it seems like the leaderboard has players that haven't had a lot of major success. You're one of those that have. How valuable is that experience being a two-time Open champion, going into tomorrow?  
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, obviously I think you have a bit of experience on the greens, what the greens will do, how they'll be tomorrow. You know they'll be hard and fast and a lot of break on the putts. But you still need to hit the ball well, doesn't matter how much experience you have. It's going to be tough out there tomorrow. The wind was a little bit different direction today, except suddenly on the last hole it switched for us. It blew a little different direction. Made 18 a bit easier.  
  
  Q. Is there -- not necessarily applying to you, but is there a fear factor when Tiger starts -- tomorrow tomorrow if he starts swinging birdies, does it go among the players, here he goes again, more so than other players?  
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah. Yeah, obviously you always know he's going to be out there to try and catch you, but then again if the leaders start making birdies, he's feeling a bit depressed, if he's falling way behind. You don't expect anybody to be running away on this golf course. So tomorrow is going to be an interesting day.  
  
  Q. Is there any less of that factor, since he hasn't been his old self yet, since his knee surgery?  
 RETIEF GOOSEN: No, he seems to be playing very well.   
  
  Q. What are your expectations for how the course is going to play tomorrow?  
 RETIEF GOOSEN: A bit like that cart path (laughter). So we'll practice our chipping on a cart path tonight.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT