QUAIL HOLLOW CHAMPIONSHIP
April 30, 2009
Retief Goosen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. A round of 4-under, obviously a good start on this golf course. 
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, nice to get around. I didn't drive it very well today, so obviously with the rough not being as high I managed to get away with a few bad shots. I finished off with a couple of good pars, struggled on the last couple holes a little bit, but not a bad round.

 Q. You mentioned the rough and the course being set up with a little bit firmer greens and the rough being down. Player advantage, or does the golf course still have the advantage with the putting surfaces being quick?
 RETIEF GOOSEN: I mean, it's tough to get it close coming out of the rough, but at least maybe you can get it to the green. In the past you couldn't. I mean, it's playing tough. You know, I probably expected the scores to be a little bit lower, more guys shooting 6-under or something like that, but it shows you, you don't need a lot of rough to toughen up the course.

 Q. If the winds pick up, with you going off in the afternoon tomorrow, would you expect it to maybe get tougher?
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, I think conditions are only going to get tougher. With the weather coming in, it's going to get breezy probably. Depends how much rain we get, as well. If it gets softer, it might get a little breezier. 

 Q. As far as going through the rest of the week, though, obviously 68 is a good start, but building on it and going from there?
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah. I hit off tomorrow afternoon and just try and play well. Most of the par-5s are reachable, so if you can hit a few birdies on those and just hang on on the rest.

 Q. Those are the par-5s you can try to take advantage of and try to make some shots up?
 RETIEF GOOSEN: Yeah, depending on which way the wind is blowing, obviously 7 and 15 is definitely a reachable par-5s, 10 into the wind today was a bit long for me. But overall I think the course is playing nicely. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT