U.S. MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 14, 2016
Michael Muehr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Obviously a back-and-forth match you guys were pretty much nip and tuck most of the way.  You got, right after he took that 2-up lead you won the next two holes and got right back into it.  What were those two holes like?  Can you describe what happened there?  
MICHAEL MUEHR: It was pretty satisfying.  Two tough holes and dug deep and made two good pars to win the holes and even the match because I was down two with four to play in a tough spot.  So proud of myself there.   
Not so proud of myself on the last three-putting, but he didn't miss any shots coming down the stretch either.  Had a great shot there on 18, and I hadn't played that hole since Saturday morning, so it's just been five days and it looked so fast, that putt and obviously left it way short, so disappointing.   
 Q.  Did you give any thought of chipping up there?  
MICHAEL MUEHR: I was going to putt it the whole way, yeah, yeah.  It's just so fast and firm.  The only thing was I was kind of into the grain on the fairway, which would have made chipping it even more difficult, so putting was the logical choice.  I just hit a bad shot.   
 Q.  You've accomplished so much in your life in golf.  Do you come away satisfied that you made it this far or a little stung?  
MICHAEL MUEHR: A little stung.  I thought this might have been the year.  I've been doing this for eight years or something.  So I thought, again, I'm not getting any younger, so I thought this might be the one.   
But the course fits my eyes, I'm putting well, playing well, and couple more matches and it's right there, right?  That one could have gone either way and just didn't go my way.  That's the way match play works.   
 Q.  Do you have any events left this year?  
MICHAEL MUEHR: I do.  I've got the Crump Cup at Pine Valley which is kind of the season-ending event.  Two days of stroke play, very, very competitive.  Might be hard to get up for that one after this.  But, again, I get to go home and see my kids.  I haven't seen them in almost a week.  So I'll be back in the seat tomorrow morning at work.   
So I wish Scott well.  He played really solidly and he's a super guy.  We had a fun time.  I certainly don't mind losing to him.  He was a real gentleman the whole way around.  So I wish him the best the rest of the way.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT