MICHELOB CHAMPIONSHIP AT KINGSMILL
October 5, 2001
Michael Muehr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MICHAEL MUEHR: 11 I hit a good shot, 9-iron to about three feet.  That felt good to get off to a good start 12, 7-iron to about six feet:  16, 7-iron to about three feet. 17, 3-putted from maybe 40 feet. 3, pin-high in two.  I left it just above the bunker, chipped it past, 2-putted for bogey.  
 
MICHAEL MUEHR: Yeah, fortunately I played well in Montreal to put myself in this position to at least have a chance cracking 125, so this --from here there's five tournaments left and I will have to seal it up this week, but no big hurry.  
 
MICHAEL MUEHR: It's nice.  Kind of got shut out at the Kemper. I'd made the cut but didn't get to play.  That was kind of disappointing obviously not quite as close as playing in my backyard, but being from Virginia it's nice to do well here. 
 
MICHAEL MUEHR: Yeah, I should over the weekend. 
 
Q.  Is Tommy still caddying for you?
 
MICHAEL MUEHR: No, he quit about a year ago.  He owns a bar.  He fired me.  He did it for about a year and a half.  
 
Q.  Playing with Paulson how in the world can we get up with two Virginians playing in the game group together?
 
MICHAEL MUEHR: I don't know, it's funny, whenever we get paired together we both play well. 
 
Q.  Why is that?
 
MICHAEL MUEHR: I really don't know.  
 
Q.  What other tournaments did you play together and do well in?
 
MICHAEL MUEHR: A number of BUY.COM events probably 5 -- 4, 5 of those.  
 

Q.  Did you guys -- you are contemporaries collegiately too?
 
MICHAEL MUEHR: Yeah, he was a year older than me.  
 

Q.  I am sure South Carolina and Duke cross paths many times?
 
MICHAEL MUEHR: Yeah, we're in the same region for NCAAA. 
 

Q.  There had to be a comfort zone when you are playing?
 
MICHAEL MUEHR: Yeah, there's -- we have similar personalities, both really competitive.  We both get pissed off a little pretty fast.  So I think when we play together it's kind of spurs one another on.  I think that's a mental competitive aspect of it.  
 
Q.  He is one -- I mean, I guess when you are kind of tight with somebody like that you can actually say things that you normally won't say to other competitors, yes?
 
MICHAEL MUEHR: Yeah, you feel a little more comfortable around somebody you have known for 10, twelve years versus somebody you have never played with, but  I suppose it can work just as well if one of those doesn't play just as well, the other might go in the tank, might just be chance. 
 
Q.  Where did Micheel finish, in red numbers as well?
 
MICHAEL MUEHR: Even. 
 
Q.  Good standard board for the first two rounds; isn't it?
 
MICHAEL MUEHR: Yeah. 
 
He was 2-, 3-under at one point. 
 
Q.  Good group?
 
MICHAEL MUEHR: We all played well.  Carl made a lot of putts, but all of us hit it pretty well, kept in front of us on this golf course which is paramount with the rough the way it is, and the greens are pretty unapproachable from the rough, so pretty much down the middle the three of us the whole week.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT