NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 17, 2012
Steve Bosak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Congratulations, Steve.   How does it feel?
STEVE BOSAK:   No words to describe it.   It's the best feeling in the world.   Feels awesome.

Q.   Did it surprise you when they called a takedown?   Did you think you had it clean?
STEVE BOSAK:   Yes.

Q.   Everyone was saying, hey, what's going on there, and you felt like you got what you needed there?
STEVE BOSAK:   Yes.   I secured it, and, like I said, I worked on that all the time in practice.   I go to finish it, I felt comfortable there.   I was like don't take this to double overtime, let's finish it here.

Q.   You and Quentin have a long history together.   What's it like facing him with a national title on the line?
STEVE BOSAK:   We're friends.   Great kid.   But when it comes down to it, I was focusing on winning a national title no matter who it was. 
As far as I was concerned, it was a blank face I was going up against.

Q.   Is the win any more sweet because you're a State High guy, you grew up in that town.   Like you said yesterday, I think when we talked, didn't really get recruited by Penn State a whole lot, I don't think.   Don't want to put words in your mouth. 
STEVE BOSAK:   When I was in high school, I knew I wanted to go an Ivy league school.   And Penn State realized that.   And it played a factor in them not recruiting me as hard.   I'm happy for them.   They did an awesome tournament.   They were dominant throughout the tournament.   So really happy for them.   If it wasn't us winning it, I wanted it to be them, hometown.   But I'm glad I won this individual title.

Q.   Did Quentin say anything to you right after the match, or did you guys say anything to one another afterward? 
STEVE BOSAK:   I think he might have said something like good match.   But as far as I was concerned, I just blacked out there. 

Q.   Was that a point of pride just for Centre County to have you guys in the Finals squaring off?
STEVE BOSAK:   I'm sure they wrote a lot of nice articles.   I love Centre County, I love State College, I love the town.   Have a lot of close friends there.   As far as I'm concerned, it's nice seeing Centre County in the Finals.

Q.   Cornell 2‑2 in the finals and another shot right now.   Your thoughts about your teammates so far and just being part of a little bit of history here, how you guys are performing in the championship?
STEVE BOSAK:   Yeah, it's awesome.   Cornell peaks at the right time.   Coach Koll has a perfect training method where we grind it out during December and during January and then we start tapering off.   We have our Ivy league schedule and just to recover in time for nationals.

Q.   Did you envision this for yourself?   When the tournament started, is this something that you kind of visualized and could really‑‑ did you maybe foresee this?   Did you have any dreams about something like this?   I know it's always a goal. 
STEVE BOSAK:   I actually visualized winning before every single match.   I visualize stuff I do before the match.   Finishing shots, and I like to visualize winning at the end and knowing that feeling.

Q.   How important is it to you to have great drill partners in the room?   I would think that you and Kyle and Cam just go at it every day. 
STEVE BOSAK:   Yeah, I mostly work with Cam.   We have some of the younger guys who can't go with Cam every day because that would be like wrestling in the national tournament every single day. 
But we have a good, solid team of younger guys, great drill partners, and our coach Damion Hahn is a perfect partner for me, two time national champion, awesome.

Q.   Can you maybe describe the grind of this tournament?   How do you feel physically?   I know you're probablyelated right now. 
STEVE BOSAK:   I'm pretty sore.   This morning I woke up, I had a hard time getting out of bed, my back was sore, my neck was sore.   But when it comes down to it, you just got to jump in the shower, get ready to rock and roll.

Q.   You said you wanted to go to an Ivy school, and obviously you wanted to challenge yourself academically.   Do you guys take pride in the fact that you can be national champion wrestlers but also being challenged with the kind of academics that's expected for you at Cornell?
STEVE BOSAK:   Yeah.   I mean, I am happy I go to a really challenging academic school.   As far as Cornell, I find for myself that balancing the rigorous schedule and wrestling is a perfect combination.   I mean, it keeps me focused in all the areas.   So it's really great. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT