NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 16, 2012
Steve Bosak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Steve.   
   
 Q.   You and Quentin grew up wrestling together.   What does this mean for you to have the final against a guy that you grew up with?  
STEVE BOSAK:   I mean, it's all the same, I want to win.   He's a great kid.   We actually were workout partners in high school.   Puts a little twist on it.   
For the most part you just have to go out there and wrestle and not worry about that.   
   
 Q.   I asked him the same question.   Center County residents saw both of you wrestling tonight, pulling for both of you at the same time.   What do you think the interest would be like for this match?  
STEVE BOSAK:   I mean, you know, we're from the same area.   I know there's going to be fans that are torn.   
But, you know, it's bound to happen sooner or later.   What a better time than National finals.   
   
 Q.   I hate to ask this question, but you are going up against a Penn State kid tomorrow.   They are a dominant team.   Being from that area, what does Penn State mean in the wrestling world?  
STEVE BOSAK:   I mean, I grew up watching Penn State.   I actually trained with their club, wrestling club.   They actually made me the wrestler I am today, so I'm very thankful.   
Like I said earlier, when it comes to wrestling, you have no friends out there.   It's you and the other guy.   You just got to look at it that way, with that mindset.   And after the match, you can be friends.   
   
 Q.   You come into the tournament after getting beat in the finals at the conference meet.   What from that experience were you able to do to come here and keep the attitude positive?  
STEVE BOSAK:   I mean, I'm pretty positive throughout the season.   Some things don't go my way, I don't let them get me down.   
But losing in the finals, one thing I took away was to be patient.   I got behind in that match, and I was patient and I didn't force anything.   That was something I took away from it.   
   
 Q.   With the history that you and Quentin have together, do you think that maybe gives you an advantage or gives him an advantage?  
STEVE BOSAK:   You know, it's funny you say that.   I think we know each other pretty well equally.   When it comes down to it, there's not really an advantage for either of us.   We know what we're up against.   Hopefully it comes out my way.   
   
 Q.   Could you talk about the winning maneuver there in the semis.   Obviously it went to the point where it was a scoring win.   
STEVE BOSAK:   Well, earlier on in the match, I kind of got sloppy a little bit where I was trying to force things.   I was being maybe too aggressive.   I walked right into an outside double‑leg shot.   I knew that was his main shot.   I corrected myself in the match, decided to close the gap, close the gap, then keep my hands down.   
He gave me a shot, I tried for a headlock, I came back up.   
   
 Q.   Were you recruited by Penn State?  
STEVE BOSAK:   You know, a little bit.   I was mostly recruited by Ivy League schools and UVA.   
   
 Q.   Let's talk about Cornell at this tournament.   You came in second in the standings going into this round.   Two years in a row second as a team.   Talk about the Cornell program.   
STEVE BOSAK:   It's a great school.   It's an Ivy League school.   Schoolwork is very vigorous.   As soon as I get back from spring break, I have to take three prelims.   As far as that goes, it keeps me in check.   
That kind of translates to the way we wrestle.   We wrestle smart, hard, we train smart.   It kind of translates into those aspects.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks a lot, Steve.   
STEVE BOSAK:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT