NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PISTONS v CELTICS
May 25, 2008
Rodney Stuckey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		   RODNEY STUCKEY: We all knew what they could do on the road. They've been winning on the road all year, and just because they haven't won one on the road in the playoffs, that doesn't mean nothing. We just came out really slow and they took advantage of that.

 Q. Having said all that, how will this team come out in Game 4?
 RODNEY STUCKEY: I hope we respond good. I know we will. We've just got to come out from the get-go and just play hard for 48 minutes. I know we'll do that. 

 Q. You guys have been moving the ball so well strong side to weak side in Game 2. Why did that change yesterday? Was it what they were doing?
 RODNEY STUCKEY: I don't know. I guess we just wasn't doing it. We had some pretty good shots, but they weren't falling. But like you say, we weren't moving the ball, whatever, strong side to weak side and all that stuff. It's just some adjustments we have to make for Game 4.

 Q. Is there a lot of that head scratching with the rest of the guys about how it happened? 
 RODNEY STUCKEY: I mean, we're all frustrated. We're at home, we shouldn't be losing like that, point blank. We've just got to give a better effort in the next game. If we do that, we'll be fine.

 Q. Considering you played so well in Boston and got the home court, do you feel like you just let a golden opportunity slip away?
 RODNEY STUCKEY: Yeah, it slipped away, but now we've got to go back on their home court and try to get another win. Actually we've got to worry about this game first and go from there. 
 Like I said, we'll come out, we've got to play hard, we're going to be aggressive, like how they came out and played, and we'll come out and get the victory.

 Q. Chauncey has said he's not 100 percent. What can you do to help him?
 RODNEY STUCKEY: I've just got to keep doing what I'm trying to do, just go out there and just be aggressive and just play hard and do what I do. Chauncey will be fine. We know he's probably not 100 percent right now, but he's out there trying to do his best, trying to lead us and stuff like that. But I'm just going to continue what I'm doing, just going to the basket, being aggressive and trying to get my teammates open.

 Q. The longer you can stay out there, the more you can help?
 RODNEY STUCKEY: Yeah, the longer I can stay out there, the more rest he gets and stuff like that. I'm not hurting this team, you know what I mean, when I'm out there. I'm just being aggressive, and we're going to try to come out and just really be aggressive in this next game.

 Q. Boston looked like they were the team that wanted it more. Is that fair to say, that it looked that way at least?
 RODNEY STUCKEY: Yeah. They got on to an 11-0 run or something like that, so that killed us right there. Like I said, coming back from a team like that, trying to come back, it's hard. Boston is a great team, and their bench played really well yesterday. We've just got to limit that, too, as well. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT