THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE
June 5, 2015
Brendon Todd
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Nice bounce back there on No. 9.   I thought you had a terrific approach and the putt was perfect.   
BRENDON TODD:   I did, it was one of the many short irons into the greens today.   And I finally got that 10‑footer to fall, so it was nice.  
   
 Q.   We were talking yesterday, you have that mallet headed putter.   You love these fast greens.   And you putted really well today for a second day in a row?  
BRENDON TODD:   I did.   It was nice.   A little slow start again with a bogey on 11, my second hole, but made some nice birdies there the rest of that nine.   
Then made some long putts there on 4 and 5 for birdie on my second nine.   That was huge, too, to get me under par there.   
   
 Q.   The hole locations seemed tough today, but the greens are so good, I guess you get them somewhere inside 20 feet you've got a chance, don't you?  
BRENDON TODD:   The pins were definitely tucked today, but the greens are still somewhat soft.   So the irons are holding pretty good.   These greens are as good as we're going to see all year.  
   
 Q.   You like the spot you're in heading into Saturday?   
BRENDON TODD:   I do.   Another strong first two days like I've had a bunch here in the last couple of months.   So looking forward to my opportunity to go out there and shoot some low scores on the weekend.  
   
 Q.   I saw the Brendon entourage, a wife, baby, all sorts of folks.   It's got to feel good for you?  
BRENDON TODD:   It does.   My parents grew up here and went to Ohio State, so they've got some friends and family here in town.   So I have some people out there to cheer me on.  
   
 Q.   They went to The Ohio State?  
BRENDON TODD:   They did, The Ohio State University.   I know the fight song as good as I know the Georgia one.  
   
 Q.   So they know all about hunkering down and all that stuff?  
BRENDON TODD:   Yeah, they know the Georgia stuff, too.   But when Ohio is winning a national championship, it's hard not to pull for them.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT