RBC HERITAGE
April 18, 2015
Brendon Todd
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What a marvelous round today.   Let's start with the last hole, that chip‑in at 18.   That was not an easy shot. 
BRENDON TODD:   Right.   Yeah.   Came up a little short with the 6‑iron coming into the green, and had a long chip with a lot of green.   Used my pitching wedge, and it went right at the hole.   I was fortunate to get it on line there.

Q.   31 on the front side.   Usually guys try to jump on 1 and 2 and make some birdies.   You started at 3. 
BRENDON TODD:   Well, 1 I hit a great shot, 15 feet and hit a nice putt and just missed.   Then on 2, I played the hole perfectly, driver, hybrid, just short chipped up to 6 feet and lipped it out.   So I was hot early with ball‑striking, and then finally made some putts starting on 3.

Q.   What was the key today for your round to shoot 8‑under?
BRENDON TODD:   The key for me was just being smart, kind of eliminating the mistakes.   And I got in a really good rhythm tee to green.   I was able to hit a lot of fairways, a lot of greens and give myself a lot of 10‑footers for birdies.

Q.   Now front side on tomorrow, you're going to be starting early.   You're 11‑under, who knows what the lead is going to be, but you'll be dodging rain drops.   It's going to be a little hectic out there. 
BRENDON TODD:   Yeah, it could be.   It will be a little slower pace tomorrow playing threesomes off two tees.   We played really fast today.   Me and Ian played the front nine in one hour, 40 minutes.   We'll go out tomorrow and see what the course gives us, see what the weather does and just try and make some birdies.

Q.   How has this year has gone for you?   You've been waiting for the really big week, I guess. 
BRENDON TODD:   Yeah.   I played steady.   I think I'm better tee to green this year than I was last year, more consistent.   The putter hasn't been as hot.   For me, though, last year this is where I really got started.   It started right after the PLAYERS last year when I got hot.   Actually struggled putting here and in Houston last year, and I kind of turned it on after that.   Maybe it's just coming a little bit early this year.

Q.   Given the year that you had, did you put on any extra expectations or sort of press, like you've got to build on this right now, out of the gate?
BRENDON TODD:   I think anytime you make The TOUR Championship and you get a win, you'd like to duplicate that.   So that's pretty much my goal, get back to The TOUR Championship, try to get another win, and this is my first year playing all four majors.   One down, three to go; I'm looking forward to each one of them. 
But I'm not going to let those events change my schedule.   I know I need to play the places where I play well and try. 

Q.   It's been a while since a Georgia Bulldog has won here.   A bit of a dry spell. 
BRENDON TODD:   Well, Bubba hasn't won three times yet like usual.   I think we're all chomping at the bit, working really hard on our games.   Harris English has been up there a bunch this year.   Chris Kirk is a great player.   Russell is kind of coming around again, I think.   So I think you'll see one of us win soon. 








END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT