THE McGLADREY CLASSIC
October 23, 2014
Brendon Todd
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Brendon, great start to the tournament this week.   Looked like you were in total control of your game from what I saw. 
BRENDON TODD:   Yeah, for 15 holes I played really great.   Lost a little bit of control there tee to green coming in and made that bogey on 16, but a couple of nice par saves to keep me feeling good going into tomorrow.

Q.   Obviously local knowledge has a lot to do with it, lot to help.   How is this course playing in comparison to where you would normally play?
BRENDON TODD:   You know, we played four SEC Championships here when I was in college at Georgia.   It's a lot different than that because they over‑seed it, and it was the spring in college, so it was a lot faster around the greens. 
I think the local knowledge helps tee to green just not being uncomfortable with some of those tee shots where you're having to carry hazards, put it in between a bunker and a hazard, so I think that's probably the biggest help out there.

Q.   Seems like a very fair course where it doesn't really suit any one particular type of player.   It's nice to have one of those types of courses, isn't it? 
BRENDON TODD:   It really is.   It's a golf course that relies on the weather, the conditions, the wind to be the teeth.   And anybody could play a great round out there, whether you hit it long or short, and I think really comes down to who approaches it well and makes putts.

Q.   Obviously an incredible year last year and a lot to live up to.   New child. 
BRENDON TODD:   Right.

Q.   Tell us a little bit about how that's changed perspective a little bit. 
BRENDON TODD:   Yeah, obviously last year was fantastic and it was my best year so far and we were fortunate to have a baby boy couple weeks ago, so Oliver is 19 days old, and he's just doing great. 
You know, it's brought a lot of perspective for me, I think, and it's been just a lot of fun to see him grow.

Q.   In many ways takes a little pressure off thinking too much about trying to back up last year, doesn't it?
BRENDON TODD:   Yeah, it does.   Great distraction off the golf course.   Keeps me busy, keeps me entertained, and you know, I think you have that perspective that your priorities are family first, golf second.   So at the end of the day, whatever you shoot doesn't matter as much.

Q.   Thanks ever so much for your time.   Obviously a lot of Georgia Bulldogs, and that's the angle we're taking with the story.   Who was there when you were there of the guys that are on TOUR?
BRENDON TODD:   Kevin Kisner for three years, Chris Kirk for four, Brian Harman for two, Hudson for one.   That's when I was there.

Q.   Is that it?
BRENDON TODD:   That's it.   Missed Russell is Harris by a year.

Q.   I talked to Chris about this the way before the way he kind of pushed you guys.   During those times were there ever times you talked about getting on the TOUR, winning together, things like that?
BRENDON TODD:   Not a whole lot, honestly.   It's not like it was our No. 1 focus when we were in college, oh, we gotta go get to the PGA TOUR and win majors.   We were really there just to have fun and try and win the SEC Championship and enjoy the college life.

Q.   Did all those years playing here help you any when you come here professionally?
BRENDON TODD:   Absolutely.   Yeah.

Q.   It's a different course. 
BRENDON TODD:   It's different around the greens, but tee to green it's the same golf course.   They haven't changed a single tee box, and I think we are probably more comfortable hitting all these shots where you're carrying hazards with the bunker through the fairway and potentially a cross‑wind than most guys.   I mean I've played more here than any golf course on TOUR.

Q.   How many times did you play SEC?
BRENDON TODD:   Four times.   That's four rounds, four times.   That's 16 rounds then.   I played a Southern Junior here; I played an AJGA Canon Cup here.   So that's four more apiece for each of those.   That's 24 rounds.   Plus I've played three McGladreys now, so I've played it at least 30 times.

Q.   What's your best SEC story playing here?
BRENDON TODD:   My best story was being a freshman and taking out Matt Every to win the individual title.

Q.   What year was that?
BRENDON TODD:   That was 2004, spring of '04.   And I just remember with three holes left I think I probably had a one‑shot lead, and Buddy was out there walking with Matt, and he could tell Matt was so frustrated because I was making putts and he wasn't.   And then I missed the green left on 17 to that front left pin, and I flopped it up there to like six feet and made it, and he just rolled his eyes and was like, I surrender.

Q.   Matt or Buddy?
BRENDON TODD:   Matt.   Me and Matt did not get along at the time.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT