THE BARCLAYS
August 22, 2014
Brendon Todd
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talk about what went well today?  
BRENDON TODD:   I hit the ball well again.   Was in a lot of fairways and hit a lot of quality iron shots into the greens.   I didn't feel like I got much out of the first nine because my shots ended up either ten feet above the hole or 20 feet and just not very makeable positions and then got it going on the back nine, my second nine.   The double bogey was really frustrating but I bounced back there with a birdie on 9.   
   
 Q.   Getting sick of playing well and being asked Ryder Cup questions?   
BRENDON TODD:   Never.   Any time you're in the conversation of a Ryder Cup or Presidents Cup, I think it's a huge honor.   I've tried to model my game after guys like Zach, who I played with, Kuchar, guys that are in the mix all the time.   So I guess I'm doing that pretty well.  
   
 Q.   It's one tournament but do you see it as a tryout for the captain's pick?  
BRENDON TODD:   Yeah, definitely.   I really think he's going to pick guys who have good form and who have proved it all season long.   I'm sure he's going for some experience, too, if he can get it but I feel like if you can just be the guy who is playing the best, you're probably going to get a pick.   
   
 Q.   Have you talked to him?   
BRENDON TODD:   No, I haven't.   He hasn't called me.   I played a couple holes with him at Greenbrier and that's really the only golf I've played with him.   Spoke to him a little bit at the British but that's it.   
   
 Q.   Talking about experience, the U.S. experience is almost universal negative experience.   Maybe new blood would be the way to go; is that the thought you've had?  
BRENDON TODD:   It's not up to me to decide so I'm not going to say one way or the other.   I think we've had great teams in the past that have gotten beat by other great teams.   I just know that if I had the opportunity to play, I would be excited to do it.  
   
 Q.   What did the storm do last night to the course?   
BRENDON TODD:   Not a whole lot really.   I haven't played a morning round since Wednesday but I felt like it played just like it did the last couple days.   
   
 Q.   Seven guys in the Top‑30 right now went to some type of Georgia college.   How cool would it be to get back to East Lake?   Have you played much as a Georgia guy?  
BRENDON TODD:   I've played probably ten or so times while I've lived in Atlanta the last seven years.   It's a really good golf course that rewards good ball‑striking.     
So, yeah, it would be a huge accomplishment to make THE TOUR Championship, which I think is everybody's goal every season.  
We have good odds since we have eight or nine guys out here every year, but it's always good to have some friends up there in the mix with you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT