THE BARCLAYS
August 21, 2014
Brendon Todd
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   I was really impressed with the composure in your round, a couple setbacks at 11 and 13 and still you were able to finish strong.   
BRENDON TODD:   Yeah, it was a great day out there for me.   Four birdies in a row on the end of front nine really spurred me on and a couple bogeys there on 11 and 13 with short game mistakes.   It's going to happen out there during the course of the tournament but nice to make a few birdies coming in.  
   
 Q.   Are you carrying any baggage missing the 4‑footer at 11?   Did you let it go or carry it with you?   
BRENDON TODD:   I think I was maybe thinking about the 4‑footers rest of the round a little more so I was a little more precise.   
   
 Q.   You had three birdies in the back after the four on the front.   
BRENDON TODD:   Yeah, those runs are fun.   You never know when they are going to come, so you just have to keep looking forward and keep doing the best.   
18 was downwind today, especially makes you have to cut the corner a little more.   
   
 Q.   You're obviously under consideration for Tom Watson ‑‑  
BRENDON TODD:   If I can play for Tom Watson and the U.S.‑‑ just trying to have a great FedExCup and if I can put four good rounds here this week, I'll be on my way.   
   
 Q.   How would you assess your play?   
BRENDON TODD:   It was great.   I've been starting to hit my irons really solid, and three birdies in the end of the round, really positive for me for the rest of the week.   
   
 Q.   Trying to grab the attention of Captain Watson, how do you break down what you try to do over the next four to six weeks?   
BRENDON TODD:   I try to take it one round at a time.   I figure if I can play 14 or 15 rounds under par, I'm doing really, really well and hopefully accomplish all my goals.  
   
 Q.   A lot going on on the course and off the course?  
BRENDON TODD:   My wife is expecting our son so we are really excited about that.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT