THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE INSURANCE
June 1, 2014
Brendon Todd
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Just another good week, three top 10s in a row for you.   Anything in particular that has just been a secret for you?   It's not just playing in Texas, now here in Ohio playing well.   
BRENDON TODD:   Right.   My short game has been pretty solid for the last three weeks.   I think that's really been the key.   I've been holding a lot of putts and saving a lot of pars.   I've driven it really, really well at times, I think, my wedges really well at times.   
So I just feel like I'm trending in the right direction.  
   
 Q.   You played three different kinds of styles of golf courses the last three weeks and played well at all three of them.   Is that a testament to how well you're playing right now?  
BRENDON TODD:   I think so, yeah.   I think it shows that my game's pretty complete right now.   Whether the course suits a long hitter or short hitter, I kind of just find a way to get it around.   
So hopefully I can take that to the majors this summer.  
   
 Q.   You've got a week off, obviously you'll practice.   What kinds of things are you going to work on to go to the Open?   Have you played Pinehurst since they redid it?  
BRENDON TODD:   I haven't played since they redid it.   I'm going to work a lot on my short game.   I know there's going to be a lot more running shots, a lot more bump and runs there.   So I'm going to practice those shots.   
And then I've just got to kind of tighten up my iron game, be able to kind of shape it both ways because you know you're going to want to be able to work into those pins a little bit there.   
And get some rest.   Rest is going to be the most important part.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel good about your chances, chances to play well?  
BRENDON TODD:   I do.   Like you said, I played well on three different courses.   My short game's been strong.   
I'm excited about the U.S. Open.   I think it should be fairly open and running off the tee, which sets up really good for me.   And then the best short game is going to win.   That's been me over the last three weeks.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT