THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE INSURANCE
May 30, 2014
Brendon Todd
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You guys both were playing together playing well, kind of feed off each other?  
BRENDON TODD:   I think the whole group did.   Kevin was actually playing pretty well on the front nine as well.   I got off to a little bit of a slow start there, made an early bogey and then rallied with a birdie.   
And I saved a nice par on 7, the par 5.   That really helped me keep my round going.   Was able to cash in with birdies on 8, and actually those par 3s, par 3s coming in, it was nice to hit some birdies on the par 3s.  
   
 Q.   Talk about the roll you're on right now.   Must be pretty cool?  
BRENDON TODD:   I am on a great run.   It's really rewarding after having a couple tough years there in '11 and '12.   I'm just trying to enjoy it, stick to my game, make it last as long as I can.  
   
 Q.   Have you been a streaky player in the past?  
BRENDON TODD:   I would say so.   When I've played well, I've played really well; when I've played bad, I've played really bad for a long time.   So I would say I'm definitely a player who gets on runs, good and bad.  
   
 Q.   Do you have a different feeling when you go to the first tee the last couple of weeks?  
BRENDON TODD:   Even on tough golf courses I expect to go out there and shoot under par.   My goal every day is to have good routines, the fairways and greens, get it under par.  
   
 Q.   You've never played here before?  
BRENDON TODD:   Right.   First time.  
   
 Q.   Talk a little bit about whether you think this course‑‑ obviously it must suit your game pretty well.   
BRENDON TODD:   Yeah, I think with it playing firm in the fairways this year it suits me pretty well.   The fairways are pretty generous, and then the course gets more demanding as you get closer to the greens.   
So I have a good short game, so I've been relying on that a little bit.   And I think if I can just find a way to take advantage of the par 5s the next couple of days, I'll be right there.  
   
 Q.   How much do you think the confidence you've gained the last couple of weeks will help as you go into the weekend?  
BRENDON TODD:   I think it helps a lot.   Last weekend I was much more relaxed at Colonial on the weekend than I was in Dallas.   I think this weekend is the same way for me.   I have a chance to go out there and just really try to put up low numbers.  
   
 Q.   You could get used to it?  
BRENDON TODD:   I can definitely get used to it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT