HP BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 17, 2014
Brendon Todd
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Brendon Todd joins us in the interview room after a 2‑under par 68 today, tied for the lead at 10‑under par, Brandon, big‑time birdie there on the last hole, secure that last pairing, but if we can get your comments about the round as a whole today? 
BRENDON TODD:   Today was a little more difficult for me today, I was out of rhythm on the first five or six, and even though I made a couple of birdies there.   Started swinging a little bit better on No. 9 but I kept rattling off pars and had to be patient.   Didn't take advantage of the par 5s very well and the lost two holes made great swings so I had good looks and cash it had in on 18. 

Q.   You talk about being patient but tomorrow there are so many people within two or three shots of the lead that it feels like it might take a 66 to win.   Does that change a little bit tomorrow the patience factor? 
BRENDON TODD:   Not really, because it just depends how you do it.   If you make 5 birdies on the front nine and you get off to a great start and you have the lead you're still going to have to be patient with yourself and not try and birdie every hole or if it goes the other way and you par the first 9 you've got to know that you can make four or five birdies on the back nine.   It's the staple game.   It's a difficult course tee‑to‑green.   There has been a great score every day but it's not like everybody is going low. 

Q.   Was it important for you to be in that final group?   Does it make a difference one way or the other?   You recorded 12 straight pars before you got that birdie. 
BRENDON TODD:   I think the important thing was to take advantage of a good opportunity.   I had a 9‑iron into the last hole and hadn't birdied the previous two wholes where I maybe would've liked to make a birdie.   So I wanted to get one more birdie under my belt so I could be that much closer to shooting the score I need to win tomorrow. 

Q.   Did you know that you were going to elevate yourself into the final‑‑
BRENDON TODD:   Walking into the 18th green I knew a birdie would get me to the last group.   So that was a little bit of motivation, but I think if I was in the second to the last group or the last group you still have a great chance to win tomorrow.   I've got to execute tomorrow and play well. 

Q.   How did the last four holes set up as a finishing stretch on this course? 
BRENDON TODD:   I think they're great.   Kind of a good mix of high difficulty and opportunity for birdies there.   15 is a brutal par 4, 16 is kind of a tricky par 5 and then, you know, on 17 and 18 you have water to contend with but if you hit good shots you're going to be in the right section with easy birdie putts.   I played them well this week and look forward to those holes. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
BRENDON TODD:   No, it was in off the left. 

Q.   Obviously playing with Louie, he's got a Major, Weir's got a Major, Harrington's got a Major, a lot of guys with stout credentials.   Do you consider it a challenge to go up against those guys tomorrow as a good test of your game?
BRENDON TODD:   Yeah, I think it's going to be a great opportunity to see how I measure up against some really great players over the last ten years.   Simple as that. 

Q.   What did you learn about your game when you played in the final group at the Humana? 
BRENDON TODD:   I learned that I'm good enough to win out here.   My good golf is just as good as everybody else's good golf.   When I do get nervous or have anxiety I can pull off good shots. 
THE MODERATOR:   Brendon Todd, thank you, sir.   







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT