AT&T PEBBLE BEACH NATIONAL PRO-AM
February 8, 2014
Brendon Todd
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   1‑over 73 in the third round.   Talk about it.   
BRENDON TODD:   It was really tough out there.   Really tested our patience today, I think, with the heavy winds and the rain delay or the wind delay.   And then just really tough conditions coming down the stretch.   
   
 Q.   Disappointing bogey on the last hole.   Was even putting difficult today?  
BRENDON TODD:   Yeah, the putting was really difficult.   The wind was blowing the ball around a little bit.   And they watered the greens during the delay, so that just made them even bumpier.  
   
 Q.   Did you guys feel you were probably in the worst part of the golf course when the delay came?  
BRENDON TODD:   Absolutely.   Yeah.   We finished on Monterey, 6, 7, 8, 9, yesterday, when it was blowing 50 and raining.   And then today we were on 8 green, just played 6, 7 and 8 into 40 mile an hour winds.   So, we were having some pretty difficult conditions.   
   
 Q.   Generally speaking, do you like to play in these kinds of conditions?  
BRENDON TODD:   I do.   Usually tough conditions favor me, because I kind of grind it out well.   I'm able to shoot rounds around par and when some other guys might struggle and blow up and shoot 80.   
   
 Q.   Aside from the bad luck of the draw, and the two days with the weather, you got to be happy with where you stand, you're within striking distance after all that.   
BRENDON TODD:   Right, I am.   I'm happy with how the week's gone.   It's really a sour finish every day.   I bogeyed the last hole all three rounds.   I bogeyed the last two today after hitting a really good looking 5‑iron on 17, having it plug under ground in the bunker.   Hit a great bunker shot, straight 10‑footer that just bounced all over the place and missed.   And then 18, just kind of didn't hit a good shot on the entire hole, so that was kind of tough.  
   
 Q.   What was the worst point out there today?   Was it right before they blew it or‑‑  
BRENDON TODD:   Yeah, I think so.   I think 6, 7 and 8 it was pumping 40 miles an hour.   On the most exposed part of the whole tournament.   And I think that was probably the most difficult conditions.  
   
 Q.   Probably felt Blake's pain when he 4‑putted.   He talked about 4‑putting number 7.   
BRENDON TODD:   I definitely did.   I was fortunate to, he left his first putt short, and I was the next to putt and I made my 6‑footer for par.   Kind of got out of there before he missed.   If he would have missed his first one before I putted, I might have had a more conservative approach.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT