TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 5, 2020
Brendon Todd
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Brendon, how would you characterize your round today?
 BRENDON TODD:   Pretty solid.  A little tired there on the back nine.  Just wasn't quite as efficient as I needed to be.  Seemed like just coming up short on some pretty good shots.
 Q. Back in 2014 you went over and visited the Drew Charter School with the East Lake Foundation, donated some money and equipment.  This week you're giving $200 for every birdie to that foundation.  Talk about your affinity for that foundation and why you like it so much.
 BRENDON TODD:   I've known Tom Cousins a long time who I believe is the owner here of East Lake and the founder of the East Lake Foundation, the Drew Charter School.  He's a great guy.
 As a former Atlantan and Georgia Bulldog, I'm always happy to support the areas in Georgia.  We get to play in a great community in Atlanta, south Atlanta, East Lake in particular.  That school is amazing.  It's helping so many families around here, and I'm just happy to give back this week.
 Q. At this point last year could you have imagined coming to the TOUR Championship and competing for the FedExCup, having a legitimate chance, being in the conversation for Player of the Year?
 BRENDON TODD:   You know, that would have been a pretty big dream at that point, but I was playing pretty well already at that point.  I finished second in the first Korn Ferry finals event, so I knew my game was there and I knew that I've got the pedigree to play this TOUR at a high level.
 I feel really -- like I'm kind of on track for where I want to go.
 Q. I think leading into the RSM you were already starting to play really well.  Was this about the time it started to click?
 BRENDON TODD:   Yeah, it was.  The Korn Ferry finals in 2019 and getting my PGA TOUR card and then having the two wins in the fall was the best golf I've ever played.
 Q. You mentioned having lived here for a bit of time, being from Georgia; what does it mean to you to make it to the TOUR Championship?
 BRENDON TODD:   It's huge, right?  It's really special to me, like you said, being a Georgia Bulldog, being a Georgia guy, getting to play in Atlanta, and this is everybody's goal to be here.  Usually I'm playing in front of hometown crowd and that's what I really look forward to, so hopefully next year we get some fans.
 Q. Have you allowed yourself to imagine what you would do with $15 million?
 BRENDON TODD:   I mean, I'd put it in the bank and invest it.  I'm not a big spender.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT