PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 7, 2020
Brendon Todd
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  JOHN DEVER:   Good afternoon, and welcome back to the 2020 PGA Championship here at TPC Harding Park.  Pleased to again be joined by Brendon Todd.  Brendon posted a second-round 70 and is 5-under for the championship at the halfway mark.  Brendon, didn't score as well as yesterday.  Was it as much conditions, your play, or some combination of both?
 BRENDON TODD:   Yeah, it was my play.  We had the same wind as yesterday.  Probably even warmer conditions.  I just didn't quite hole the putts, but I played really well.  I drove it better today.  Hit a lot of good iron shots and just burned some edges.
 Q. Is this the type of round that you didn't hit disaster but you're still available and ready to go forward in the last two rounds here?  You just didn't take yourself out of it today.
 BRENDON TODD:   That's correct, yeah.  I feel like I'm still in a good spot going into the weekend.  No matter what I would have shot today, whether it was 62 or 70, I was still going to have to play a good weekend.  I'm just in position and ready for those rounds.
 Q. Brendan, a few times today on the broadcast we saw a pretty cool cut with the Shot Tracer.  Is that your predominant shot?
 BRENDON TODD:   It is.
 Q. This golf course, it feels like tee shot-wise it's more of a right to left tee shot course; is that fair?
 BRENDON TODD:   It is fair, yeah, especially I'd say once you get to hole 8, that par-3, the wind starts coming off the left there for 8 and 10, and then on 12 it's a draw hole.  You can cut it on 13, then you need to draw it on 14, 15 and 18.  It's a little bit difficult off the tee, but I don't hit it really far and I hit it pretty straight, so I can find the fairways no matter which way the hole is shaped.
 Q. To that 8th hole, what do you think of that hole?
 BRENDON TODD:   Yeah, it just needs to be tilted back towards the tee a little bit more.  It just does.  10 feet on the green it starts running away and you're hitting a long club.  It's just a good tough hole that I think rewards par.
 Q. We talked in March and you said like your number one goal would be for the rest of the year to contend in a major, and I don't know if you've -- now that you're in the middle of it so it's kind of hard to tell, but can you take some satisfaction in being there and meeting that goal, especially considering everything you've been through?
 BRENDON TODD:   Yeah, I can, but we're only, like you said, halfway through the tournament.  Like I said, what I would consider contending, having a chance to win on Sunday, and we're still a long ways from there, so I'm just going to keep doing my thing and playing my best.
 Q. Do you feel pretty confident going into this weekend with your game?
 BRENDON TODD:   I do, yeah.  I mean, I'm in a pretty comfortable situation in that I've been near the lead a few times here in the last month.  Yeah, it really just comes down to executing golf shots and making putts.  I've proven on this golf course I can do that, so I've just got to go out there and execute this weekend.
 JOHN DEVER:   Thanks for the insights and have a terrific weekend.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT