NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: KINGS v COYOTES
May 21, 2012
Radim Vrbata
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Radim Vrbata. 

Q.   Anything you have to do differently to generate more chances for yourself specifically?
RADIM VRBATA:   I think we are better on the forecheck, we skated better.   Maybe finally looked like they could get tired, too.   That's what happened.   Creating more in the offensive zone.   Getting pucks more in their zone.   There's a good chance they will cough it up or you will turn it around and have some scoring chances. 

Q.   Thought that was the best game in the series from your line?
RADIM VRBATA:   I think so.   Overall, the team, it was the best game.   As I said, first three games, they looked like they can fly forever, whole three periods.   Last game, looked like they can get tired, too. 
That's why we are creating our chances.

Q.   How do you feel about your game right now?
RADIM VRBATA:   You know, it's playoffs.   You work hard.   If you get chances, you have to keep working hard.   It's that simple. 

Q.   Do you feel like they kind of have you targeted out there?
RADIM VRBATA:   I don't know.   We look at each team, they look at ours.   We try to take away their skill players, they probably trying to take ours. 
Right now there's not much space out there to create offense.   The goals that are happening are usually just lucky bounces or lucky shot that goes in, not like a set play or anything. 
As you said, you have to keep working hard and hope for your breaks.   That's all it is right now it seems. 

Q.   Looks like there are shots that are promising and before it gets there, there's two sticks in front of it. 
RADIM VRBATA:   Exactly.   You feel like you have a good chance, then you have two guys that want to block it, plus there is the goalie. 
Like I said, with offense right now, I think it's all about getting a break where the puck just goes through somehow.   It's all about working hard right now, doing your job defensively, hoping for something that will bounce your way offensively. 

Q.   You started not feeling well when these playoffs started.   Marty got hurt, then suspended.   Tip decided to break you guys up.   Hard to get any continuity going as a group?
RADIM VRBATA:   As I said, it doesn't matter who you play with right now.   There's no set plays.   It obviously helps if you have guys who you're comfortable with.   I don't know if it does anything right now offensively because, as I said, it's all about being at the right spot at the right time, having the puck bounce your way, having a shot go through somehow.   That's the way it is right now. 

Q.   As a scorer, do you have to adjust your thinking when they're taking away space?
RADIM VRBATA:   Yeah, you have to maybe go more to the net or, as I said, get a rebound or something like that.   Having a look at the goalie, that's really not there.   There's guys blocking shots.   Even if there is a chance, somebody is trying to block your hands or your stick. 
You know, it's playoffs for a reason, it's different.

Q.   They're doing the same thing you are.   You're playing the same defense as they are. 
RADIM VRBATA:   Exactly. 

Q.   But they're getting 35 shots.   Can you take a page out of their book, throw everything at the net?
RADIM VRBATA:   That's what I think we did last game better.   That's the game we probably want to build on and go from there. 

Q.   Using what you did in Game4, can you use that as a springboard for this whole week?
RADIM VRBATA:   Yeah.   As I said, first few games looked like they can skate whole game.   Last game, looks like they can also get tired.   We were able to get on the forecheck, get pucks in their zone.   That's something we want to do.

Q.   You played with a lot of pride yesterday.   Is that fair to say?   With the season on the line, you were able to go into the other team's building and win a game you had to win.   Can you talk about channeling that again for Game5. 
RADIM VRBATA:   We had no other choice.   If we wouldn't have shown up yesterday, we wouldn't be talking today.   Same situation for tomorrow.   We put ourselves in that situation. 
But tomorrow's mindset will be probably the same, as I say, because if we lose, there's no other chance to play. 

Q.   Is that a blueprint of what you have to do to win the series, what you did yesterday?
RADIM VRBATA:   I think so.   Obviously coaches will tell you there's probably things we want to improve.   Overall I think we were getting the pucks in their zone, we were advancing the puck.   When we did get there, you know, we were able to forecheck and create something in the offensive zone. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT