NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: KINGS v COYOTES
May 16, 2012
Radim Vrbata
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Radim Vrbata.   
   
 Q.   How can you generate some offense in this series?  
RADIM VRBATA:   We have to if we want to be successful.   We'll have to generate something.   Seems like there's not much going on in the offensive zone for us right now.   We'll have to find something, get a good power play going, get a goal here or there.   
There's not going to be much probably.   If you have to win 1‑0, so be it.   We just have to win a game.   
   
 Q.   The bar is getting higher at this stage of the season.   Why do you think it's been a challenge to come up to that level maybe?  
RADIM VRBATA:   I think we responded well against Chicago, responded well against Nashville.   Now for some reason our game is not where we would like it to be.   
On the other hand we have to give them credit.   They're playing very well.   They didn't beat Vancouver for no reason, they didn't beat St.Louis for no reason.   They're a good team.   
We feel we can play better.   If we want to be successful and beat them, we'll have to be better.  
   
 Q.   It's clear they want to get traffic in front of your goaltender.   Do you feel in Game3 you need to get a little bit of that back?  
RADIM VRBATA:   Yeah.   Every goalie will tell you they have troubles with the shot they don't see.   That's what we have to do, we have to be in his face, create more traffic there so those shots will get through.   
He will stop the shots that he can see.   You're right, we have to make it tougher on him.   
   
 Q.   The way that they're playing, it's a good example of how you have to compete at this level?   
RADIM VRBATA:   You have to play physical, but you have to play smart.   You can't have games like yesterday where we took so many penalties, put them in five‑on‑three two times.   They're a good team and they will take advantage of it.   
We'll have to play tough, play physical, but smart.   
   
 Q.   What do you have to do to get the power play going?   
RADIM VRBATA:   That's the question we are asking all season.   Sometimes it's no magic, you just put pucks on the net and find a way in.   Sometimes you have chances, and it's not going in.   
Right now it's just about getting the puck in the zone, getting shots through, you know, hope for a rebound.   
   
 Q.   What are you seeing different in the teams in the post‑season versus the regular season?   What are they doing differently?  
RADIM VRBATA:   Well, they're scoring.   When you look at L.A. Kings, they had three good lineups.   You would think they would be one of the better teams in the Western Conference.   
For some reason, they were not scoring goals during the season.   They had a tough time doing that.   Right now it seems like they found their game, they're just rolling with it.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel the team felt maybe getting to this point of the season was enough of an accomplishment?  
RADIM VRBATA:   I don't think so.   I don't think anybody's thinking about that.   We said it's nice to win round one, round two, but that's not what you play for.   It's not like we are satisfied where we are.   We want to play for Stanley Cup, go to finals.   
That's not the case.   
   
 Q.   I sense frustration among your team that you're not playing your best hockey at the most important times.   How much of that is you're not playing how you want to play versus what L.A. is doing?   
RADIM VRBATA:   I think that's what it is.   We're not playing the way we can and they're playing really well.   That's what it is.   We have to find a way to get better and make it tougher on them.   
But that frustration is there.   I think it showed yesterday.   As you said, we probably feel like we are not playing the way we can.   That frustration is showing.   
   
 Q.   Change of scenery might be good, you guys are a good road team.   
RADIM VRBATA:   We have no other choice.   We lost two home games, and now we have to go on the road and steal games there if we want to have a chance.   
   
 Q.   (Question regarding individual effort.)   
RADIM VRBATA:   That first game, they had a really good forecheck.   We played mostly in our zone.   But yesterday, I felt like, before we get into that penalty trouble, I think we had some chances.   We were just not able to score on them or to get a goal.   
You know, as I said, I think for tomorrow we'll have to go with the mindset that we will play our best, if we have to win 1‑0, great.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT