U.S. OPEN
September 3, 2017
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
P. KVITOVA/G. Muguruza   
7-6, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Leading the first set, but what did she do to turn the match around?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, overall I think she started -- even though I was winning 4-1, I think she was playing great.  With the past of the matches, I think she was playing even better.  So, you know, I felt like she was superior today.  You know, great for her.  She played very good.   
 Q.  What do you think she did particularly well with respect to unwinding things or making things difficult for you?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I think she was serving very good today.  She finds in the key moments big serves.  It is complicated when she hits lots of aces, or just strong serves.   
She was playing good, a lot of winners.  She was playing very good with the forehand today, moving well, as well.  Pretty good performance from her.   
 Q.  What do you try to do when you feel like someone is taking the game out of your hand?  How do you try to adjust to that?  How tough is that for you?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, of course it's difficult.  I try to fight.  I'm not afraid of playing somebody that is playing good.  So I just try to be calm, try to give her the hardest fight.  I win or she wins.  There's no in between.   
 Q.  Was it difficult to shake off the volley miss in the tiebreaker?  It was a big opportunity there.  Did it linger with you a little bit?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, that was a tough moment because at the end we both felt like the one who is going to make a mistake is going to lose a set, this kind of feeling when the match is very equal.  It definitely was a shot I should not have missed it maybe.   
But at the end it shows that it was a very competitive match.   
 Q.  What do you feel about your own performance?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I'm happy.  I'm very happy with the tournament.  Even though today didn't go my way, I didn't feel I did something wrong out there.  I think she played very good.  We all know she can play, finding the incredible shots and serve.   
Overall it's a very good tournament for me.  Not only a tournament, but the summer in general.  I feel very happy.  This match is just a match, but I'm happy with all the period that I've been playing.   
 Q.  You obviously wanted to win today.  You're mainly concerned with your own performance.  Can you appreciate what Petra has been through in this return for her after what happened to her at the end of last year, to be back at this stage of a Grand Slam tournament?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I don't know how she feels, of course.  I think it's incredible.  I think it's incredible that she's playing at this level.  I'm not really familiar about what really happened.  I know, of course, what happened, that she got attack and stuff.  I think she's playing very well.  So I don't feel she has changed.   
 Q.  Not the way you wanted to end the tournament.  You do have a chance to be No. 1 making it to the fourth round, unless a couple other people win multiple matches.  What would that mean to you after this great summer you've had?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I think every player dreams to be No. 1 at some point.  I didn't come to the US Open to be No. 1.  I know from the first day that's a big thing all the people is talking about.  But that wasn't really my goal.  My goal was to improve my stats here and to keep doing what I was doing.   
We'll see.  I'll keep on eye now on the scores (smiling).  But that's it.   
 Q.  Among all the players, are there many players that hit as hard and are as powerful with her?  Would you compare her to Serena?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: She's one of the biggest hitters, and talented player.  She's lefty as well, so that makes it a little bit more tricky.  But I think she has a great timing and a lot of power, for sure.   
 Q.  You've had such good success this summer.  You've had good success in Asia in the past.  What are you going to do between now and then to keep this momentum?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Oh, I'm going to keep doing the same thing.  I'm happy that we have now the last swing in Asia, which like you said I did good results.  I look forward to go there and play my tournaments.  I want to keep pushing myself to finish the year in a great way, keep this up.  That puts me in a good spot.   
 Q.  I didn't hear what happened on the coaching violation.  How did that go?  Were you hearing things from your box?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: No, actually I didn't hear.  I think just, no, my coach made a sign, then I saw that the umpire saw it.  He said, Warning.  That's it.   
You cannot hear anything from that court, so I don't know.  A sign or something, and the umpire said that.   
 Q.  After Wimbledon you barely took any time off.  You went straight back to training.  Would you consider taking a couple more days off to reset for the last part of the season?  A summer with a lot of matches for you.  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yeah, I want to do that.  I mean, I played the whole summer swing.  I plan to play also in Asia because I want to.  But for sure now I need to refresh my mind also because this tournament takes a lot of energy.   
Now I have few days, of course.  So, yeah, I'm going to do that.   
 Q.  You were mentioning Petra is a lefty.  Do you think the lefty matchup with her is difficult because she can take the ball maybe a little bit easier to your forehand, make you hit more forehands than a right-hander might force you to?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: No, I think she just makes it's a little bit more tricky in the serve basically, just because the effect when it's lefty.  But at the end from the baseline, it was kind of a matchup.  I think she found good shots and she took advantage of.  But it's more especially of the serve.  And she serves very well, of course.   
 Q.  There's a lot of expectation on you coming here.  Is that one of the things you're most happy with, how you dealt with that?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: The expectation?  Well, I think that I like it.  That's what I'm trying to say.  If people think I could be a good competitor there and go far, that's fine.  Of course, I feel these butterflies and things like this.  But at the end of the day, I go out there, I do my best, and that's all.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT