THE CHAMPIONSHIPS WIMBLEDON
July 8, 2017
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








G. MUGURUZA/S. Cirstea
6-2, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Three straight-set wins this week at Wimbledon.  You've won 12 of your last 16 matches.  You must be feeling pretty good about how you're hitting the ball at the moment.
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yeah, I'm feeling pretty good.  I felt today I improve a little bit my game compared to the previous matches.  I'm happy the way I'm, you know, playing out there.  It's not easy.  I'm working hard.
I'm kind of doing what I'm working on, so...
Q. You're now part of middle Monday, where all the remaining men and women play on the same day.  What does it mean to you to be a part of that?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, it's great obviously to reach the second week.  That's everybody's goal, to go through the first week, the first matches, then the exciting part comes now in a way.
Q. When you made the final two years ago, I remember you saying you weren't still 100% comfortable on grass, it was all still new for you.  How does it feel two years on?  Do you feel more comfortable here?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I played more matches.  I never feel that comfortable in grass.  You know, every time I start the grass season, I'm like, How the hell I did that final?  This kind of feeling.
For sure, the experience I have now playing matches for sure helps me.  But it's tough.  Everybody knows it's tough.
Q. You have Kerber or Rogers next.  Talk about the challenges of facing each of them.
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I think maybe Kerber is favored in that match.  I don't know the score now.  But I think it's an exciting match.  In case I play Kerber, is a long time I didn't play against her.  I look forward to it.  I love this kind of match.
And Rogers, I know her.  I played against her, as well.  She's a big hitter, good serve.  So quite similar to the players I've been playing.
Q. Specifically if you play Kerber, she started out winning against you, and you've won the last few matches.  What has been the key to your success in the recent matches against her?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: The key?  Well, I think when you play top players, first of all you got to have your best level.  I think I kind of found a good level, good shots, good serve, playing against her.  I think it's very important to, you know, play well, otherwise you have no chance.
Q. What specifically for you, when you face her, tactically and in terms of your game do you need to have going well to play well against her?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I think I have to, like, always concentrate on my game.  I think if I take care of me, I do my, you know, stuff, I feel I can hurt a lot of players.  Maybe she's one of them.
Q. You posted a video yesterday of a smoke alarm going off at your place.  Can you tell us what happened?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yeah, I mean, every time I come to Wimbledon, a lot of things happen in that house.
But I love red meat.  We were doing, like, nice steaks.  I think I did a lot of steaks.  It was so much smoke that the fire alarm was, like, under where you cook.  I'm like, Why do you put a fire alarm there?
Then was like this for 20 minutes.  We didn't know what to do until, I don't know, someone touch a button or something, then it went off.
I felt scared.  I'm like, Are they going to come just because of steak?  I don't know, was just a joke.
Q. You were the one cooking them?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yeah, I always cook.  I love it.  It relaxes me.
Q. I know we don't like to speculate, but if you were to play Kerber, you both made the last two Wimbledon finals against Serena.  To us that would seem like a blockbuster match.  Does it feel the same for you if you play a player like that or is it just another match for you?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: It's another match.  I played a lot of times against her, and I know her game.  But nothing changes.  I had tough matches with people that, you know, were not in the top, top level.  Then you play people in the top level.  You never know how it's going to go.
For me, it's just another exciting match.
Q. How would you describe the opportunity or the door that's open for you now being in the second week, playing as well as you're playing?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yeah, maybe everybody's thinking, Oh, what a nice chance.  But I got to go out there and make that true.  I'm motivated.  I have toughest rounds to come.  I'm just looking forward for it.
I'm not thinking that far, like most people do.  Maybe they're thinking, Who am I playing next round, the next round?  They're making the whole speculation thing.
For me, it's just more simple than that.  I'm just going to take care of my next match and we see from there.  It's just like that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT