WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 20, 2017
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
G. MUGURUZA/S. Halep   
6-1, 6-0   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Second set, fourth game, I think it was 20 points and you held.  How much relief did you have in that moment?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I felt there was a key game in the second set, the 3-0 game, but I felt -- I felt very comfortable there, playing against Simona, and also my level was very high.  So I felt like especially in the second set I could raise it a little bit more and close the match.   
 Q.  In that first set, can you talk through the first early games?  Oftentimes a lot of these matches can kind of be determined there in terms of how comfortable it is.  How quickly did you get comfortable, I guess, out there?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, since the first ball, honestly, I knew there was going to be a lot of long rallies, and she's a very solid player and, you know, very tough, as well.   
I was ready for it.  I was looking to play my game, to be aggressive since the first moment, and then after, I was improving a little bit, a little bit more until the second set, also, played better.   
 Q.  You have had some tough opponents all week, and you have managed to get through some tough three-set matches.  Do you feel like today was the combination of all that good play coming together to be your best performance of the week?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I think so.  I think today was my best performance of the tournament, because I felt like I played 20 hours in that court, you know.  I had very long matches (smiling).   
And it was just there.  I think I did few little mistakes and my shots were very, you know, placed, and I think I was doing almost everything right there.   
 Q.  If, at the beginning of the week, somebody said, Keys, Kuznetsova, Pliskova, Halep, and give you a 100% shot, what would you have said?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: They said that?   
 Q.  No, if someone had said that to you.  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Oh, well, that's a tough draw.  That's a tough draw, you know, because all the players that I have played, they're in a good moment.  But I knew it's gonna be a tough draw, because all these tournaments are very difficult.  I felt in Toronto I had a tough draw, as well.   
I feel it's very equal.  We always talk about it.  But I'm happy that I, you know -- I was almost in the locker room in the third match.  I turned it around.  I won, and then that gave me, you know, a boost for the next days.   
 Q.  Did you feel, after the Keys match, after saving the match points -- you know, some players say, Yeah, I could have been home.  So I just play freely or things like that.  Did it even occur to you?  Do you even remember the fact that you saved match points?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I do remember, but I didn't feel like, Oh, no.  No, I felt good.  I turned it around.  I have more chances to play.  I want to go for it.  I wasn't thinking, like, less pressure or something.  I was, like, hungry.  I'm playing Kuznetsova now.  I have another chance.  I was close to not having it.  So I took the opportunity, kind of.   
 Q.  This is your first title in the USA?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: First time in the USA?   
 Q.  First title.  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Yes, yes.  (Laughter.) First.   
 Q.  Does it feel like a turning point of any kind for you?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, in the past, this swing is never my best swing, and I'm happy that this year I kind of have a consistency of my results.  And then here in Cincinnati, much better result.  So, yes, because, you know, was always, like, oh, the American swing is never going my way.  So finally, this year, you know, I improved that.   
 Q.  Why do you think that is?  What's changed about your tennis this summer that you feel that's clicking?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I'm not sure.  I just think in the past -- I don't know.  I just didn't play well.  And as soon as I stopped the grass season, I came here, and, you know, I wanted to play right away, trained hard, not take anything for granted.   
I was really focused and improving especially this swing, because I know it's important.  Cincinnati, Toronto, these tournaments are huge.  And coming to the US Open, as well.  I just wanted to change this thing going for the last years.   
 Q.  How are you going to celebrate this outstandingly large trophy?  How are you going to get that home?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, I'm going to have to send it.  Actually, I have never had this kind of, I don't know how to say it in English, ceramic.  Yeah, I like it.   
But how I'm going to celebrate?  I was talking with my team before.  I think we're going to make a barbecue, because we have a nice home and stuff.  I think it's better than a restaurant.  Just put my music, barbecue, I think, maybe some burgers.  I don't know (smiling).   
But enjoy, you know, because I felt like I played so many matches in a row, very tough, little time to enjoy it.  Because as soon as I won one, I was thinking already about the other one, especially one day I had to play almost back to back.  Now it's time for, whew, finally, relax.   
 Q.  Do you think that something has clicked for you mentally or emotionally since the French Open?  Is something different about you?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Since the French Open?  No, I don't feel any difference.  I feel like this year, you know, my goal was to improve a lot these matches at the beginning of the tournaments, my consistency and be tough there.  So I'm thinking every day that when I go to play.   
And I'm really improving that.  French Open was just another tournament, a tricky tournament, but I feel like I improved a lot as a tennis player.   
 Q.  What's the preparation for the US Open now going to look like?  How many days off are you going to take?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, I think the most important part is to recover, to be fresh for a tournament like US Open, because it takes a lot of energies, a Grand Slam, and have played three tournaments in a row.   
So I'm sure a couple of days, and then getting used to New York vibe again, because it's special.  And that's it.  Not a lot else.   
 Q.  You won Wimbledon, you played well in Toronto, you won here again.  You're going to be one of the big favorites if not "the" big favorite for the US Open.  Is that a thing that you relish now, being a two-time Grand Slam champion?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I mean, it's normal, I guess, when people say that.  They always say, you know, when somebody is playing well, they always put a list of favorites of the list, and they go, like, This one is the favorite.  So I understand -- I think it's normal.   
I'm happy that people see me as a favorite, but not always happens that you win a tournament before and then you go and win a Grand Slam, for sure, or you lose first round, bad result, and then you go and win.   
So I'm just happy I'm going to go with a lot of matches and confidence.  I'd rather this than not having it.  We'll see after.   
 Q.  The week before the US Open, normally is a big week with sponsor commitment.  Being the Wimbledon champion, I guess that increases on your side.  How much time do you think that's going to take away from the tennis preparation?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: It takes time.  We'll have everything organized, because I wanted to be ahead of the curve, kind of, to have everything prepared and ready for that week before, which is very important.   
So I'm sure there is a lot of things to do normal, because everybody is there and it's US Open, last Grand Slam of the year.  I'll manage, I guess.   
 Q.  How good are you at saying no to all of these things they are asking you to do?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I don't do a lot, honestly.  I like to be calm, and I do what I feel, like, is going to help me.  There is certain stuff you have to do, of course, but I want to have, like, the option to do things that I want to do.  Not everything that comes.  Because after, it's a disaster, too much.   
 Q.  What criteria do you use to make those decisions?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Normally is things that I feel, how you say, I see myself with this?  I don't know.  Like attach or something.  "Identify," that's the word.  I identify or I look forward to this or I have to have an interest or I'd like to do this.  Not just do for do.  I like to do something that I feel I'm going to be happy and involved to be there.   
 Q.  Looks like you got used to being Grand Slam champion?  Maybe last year you feel a little bit uncomfortable being French Open champion.  But do you think now you're more relaxed compared to last year?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Yeah, I think I'm more relaxed.  I don't know if "relaxed" is the word, but I know that maybe I get used to that, maybe, you know, because it was a little bit different situation for me, so I feel like right now it's helping me rather than maybe holding me back, like it did a little bit last year.   
So that's something that I really wanted to change from last year and improve that.  Yeah, I'm taking a good path there.   
 Q.  You stopped Simona from getting to No. 1 in the rankings today.  You're up to No. 3.  Are you thinking about the possibility of becoming No. 1 yourself?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Honestly, I know it was tough.  I was thinking about it.  I'm like, Oh, I wish I was in her situation.  Must be difficult.  But I wanted the title, as well.   
Actually, I never -- it never crossed my mind until everybody is asking me that question now.  It never crossed my mind, honestly.  I'm like playing, I want to win the tournament.  Now you're telling me I'm going to be 3.  But I didn't know that.   
Now I feel like a lot of people is asking me about No. 1, stuff like that.  All I want is to win the tournaments.  That's what -- I don't know.  It, like, motivates me always.  And that's going to be a consequence.  If I keep playing like this, sooner or later I guess I will be, I don't know.  I hope so.  But, no, it's not here yet like that.   
 Q.  You stayed at a house in Wimbledon, stayed at a house this week.  Does it feel like that sort of setup is some sort of secret mechanism that relaxes you more when you're not just at a player hotel?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Maybe.  I never thought about it.  But I'm sure it helps, because we have -- you know, you're not that lonely.  In hotel room, there is not a lot to do.  You go there, and that's it.  In a house, you have, like, common area, you have the team, you can make jokes, cook.   
So for me it's more relaxing because I really enjoy that and cooking.  Makes a difference.   
 Q.  Did you set up the smoke alarm here?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: They don't have (laughter).  And we did in the barbecue.  I learned from that.   
 Q.  Are you staying at a house in New York, too?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: No.  Where?  Where can I stay?  There is no houses there.  It's like just like buildings.  No.  We're in hotel.   
 Q.  What are you most looking forward to in New York?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I'm looking forward to be able to be there and feel, I don't know, that I'm -- that I improve what happens the past years, because I feel like I never really found my -- I don't know what it is.  You know, my game or the tough matches that I always have never goes my way.   
So I want to change that.  Because is a tournament I want to play, a kind of scenario I like, everything that I like is there, but it's just not -- so I want to find the recipe maybe this year, maybe that I have a little bit more confidence or is going maybe better, or, I don't know.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT