AUSTRALIAN OPEN
February 12, 2021
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  G. MUGURUZA/Z. Diyas
 6-1, 6-1
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. Through to the second week, two years in a row.  Just talk to us about what that means to you and your consistent performance here.
 GARBINE MUGURUZA:   I mean, very happy also again with my performance today.  I feel like the last match, it was a year ago in China.  It was very tough battle.  I felt like I was more prepared this time after many matches and after playing well.
 I mean, I feel like I took control early of the match and kept on going.  So happy that this time was not a three-set match.  Yeah, just happy with, of course, being in the second week of a Grand Slam.  Just shows that, yeah, my game is there.
 Q. What are your thoughts and concerns about the newly announced lockdown for the state of Victoria?
 GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Well, I mean, it's a tough one.  After trying to have everybody clean, of course there's always a risk of having new cases.  We all know that the government here takes it very seriously.
 But we are happy that we can continue the tournament.  I feel like that's always something that is not in our control.  They can say, Okay, you know what, this Australian Open tournament, we kind of freeze it.  I'm happy that the tournament is going to go on.
 I'm sad, of course, that the crowd will not be there for the next few days.  Hopefully after we will have again.
 Q. Sunday is Valentine's Day.  We all know that love in tennis loses.  If you end the game with love, you've lost the game.  What do you think that word 'love' means in tennis?
 GARBINE MUGURUZA:   I know there is a story, I know is there a story.  I didn't pay that much attention to that class (laughter).
 I mean, I don't take very seriously I guess the Valentine's Day.  First, we're always on the road.  Doesn't mean too much because we're never at home.  But I know it has a meaning.  I don't know exactly if it's because you're losing, 40-Love.  I don't know.  I didn't actually thought too much about that.  I have to find out just to be prepared for the next time (smiling).
 Q. Can you just reflect, as you're about to go into the second week, about how you've been able to handle playing the week before, managing the little bit of a tricky schedule to start the tournament, how you're feeling physically and mentally?
 GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Well, of course it's tough.  We're dealing with classic stuff of many matches in a row, a lot of days on a row also.
 But very happy with my performances.  I feel like today also my tennis was there.  Very early in the match I tried to be there, to grab the dominance of the match.  Yeah, very pleased with this Grand Slam so far.
 Q. You're averaging just seven unforced errors per set this first week, which is a fairly low number.  What do you think accounts for how cleanly you've been able to manage these matches?  Do you think it's decision making or technical?
 GARBINE MUGURUZA:   I mean, I feel like it's a combination.  When you do little unforced errors, either you're playing well or either you're not taking too much risk.
 No, I feel like I'm doing the right shots at the right time probably, trying to make my opponent be the one doing the unforced errors.  But, yeah, actually I don't look too much at the statistics.  But it's a great sign that I'm playing inside the court, not outside the court.
 Q. Looking ahead, you'll play either Naomi Osaka or Ons Jabeur.  Can you talk about the challenge of playing Naomi Osaka.
 GARBINE MUGURUZA:   I mean, I feel like we've never played.  I don't think we've played each other before.  Just looking forward for a fourth round, a good fourth round, playing the top players.  I feel like that's always the right way, you know, a good sign.  Just expecting a good match.
 Q. And then with Ons, a little bit of a different style of game, what would be the challenge of playing her?
 GARBINE MUGURUZA:   I mean, with her we did play actually a year ago.  It was a very tough match.  I feel she has a very unpredictable game, if that's a word.  I feel like she is also very talented.  It's never easy to play people that have a different style of game.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT