ROLAND GARROS
June 4, 2017
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. MLADENOVIC/G. Muguruza
6-1, 3-6, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. When you were walking off the court, it looked like you didn't want the crowd to applaud you.  Can you tell us why you felt that way, or if that is how you felt?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, I think the crowd today was a little bit obviously tough for me.  I understand.
I just think that they were a little bit, sometimes should be a little bit more respectful, even though for the game, because we had to, you know, stop.  The chair umpire has to always calm the crowd down.
I'm not here to create enemies.  I mean, I love playing here.  Is not a good feeling, so...
Q. You didn't look to be able to find your A game today.  Was it some pressure, was it the nerves?  What went wrong for you?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, I think she's playing good.  You know, I know she makes a lot of double faults.  That was a big thing on the match, but she managed to recover all those points.
I obviously was a little bit nervous.  Through the match I was getting more and more.  Also because the feeling.
So it's true that I couldn't really find my game, but I don't think I did really something wrong out there.  You know, I just think it went to her side, and that's all.  There was, like, few points that she played well at the end of the match, and kind of that was it.
Q. Can you talk a little bit about the first set?  Was it the fact you had played all your matches so far on Chatrier and had to play on Lenglen?  Because it seemed like you struggled finding your range in the first set and things never worked out in the first, recovered in the second, but the first set looked particularly difficult for you today.
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, I wasn't expecting to play on that court.  I thought it was a great match.  I was looking forward to play center court, but it's fine, I had so many matches on Lenglen.  I had big wins and big loss, so it didn't really matter.  I just think it was a tricky round.  I think all the opponents I had in this path until today, they were extremely hard and they were also clay-court players, and I think that today didn't just went my way.
Q. I was just wondering if you could hear Kristina yell "forza" on a few unforced errors you made, and how annoying it is to hear your opponents do that.
THE MODERATOR: We are going to take just a very short break.  So hold on.  Bear with us, please, for a few moments.  Stay in your seats, and we'll let you know.
(Brief break in press conference.)
Q. I was just wondering if you could hear Kristina yell "forza" on your unforced errors and if it was annoying to hear that?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: No, I think she speaks like 25 languages, I heard, so...
Q. What's your primary emotion?  Disappointment?  Anger?  Obviously this is tough for you.
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: No, I think it's just a mix, you know.  I went out there and it was a tough match, I have to say.
I mean, it's obviously both.  I'm disappointed because it didn't go my way.  And it was, you know, just tough today to be on the court, honestly.
Q. The match just ended a short while ago, but what do you feel you may have learned about yourself or your experience here as the defending champion?  Just talk about it as a whole.
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: You know what?  I love this tournament no matter what happens.  I'm going to be super happy to come back.  I think it's just -- it's gonna sound weird, but I'm actually happy that this stage kind of the year is done, because I wanted to go as far as possible.  But even if I didn't, I think I'm going to feel much better now to continue the year, and everybody is going to stop bothering me asking me about this tournament, so it's going to be a little bit like, Whew, let's keep going.
Q. Just to follow up on this, are you surprised of how tough it was for you to handle these stages of being favorite for Grand Slam or being a Grand Slam champion?  Do you think it would be easier some way, emotionally, I mean?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, I went prepared.  I know she's a French player, and I understand that.  I went prepared out there.  But it's always tricky when you have to defend your title and you have someone that's going to be a tough match, no matter in which country you play.
And then just the environment.  You know, I understand.  I'm just gonna say that I understand.
Q. You were the runner-up at Wimbledon two years ago.  What were your memories of that run?  How much are you looking forward to Wimbledon this year and what will you do building up to Wimbledon?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, Wimbledon seems far now for me.  But like I said, I played final there.  I'm happy to go through all these big tournaments.  You know, I feel like I kind of am made for these tournaments.  You know, in a way, I love going out there and perform.  I rather play in these courts even if not everybody is in my side, because I feel like that's what I train for, you know.
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Spanish.
Q. I can see that you don't look very well.  We feel for you.  How are you feeling?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I don't feel so well.  It was a disputed match.  I lost confidence, and my opponent of course was on home turf, so it created a lot of tension.
So of course I'm sad.  It's a very painful defeat here in the French Open.
Q. What is the most painful?  The pain?  The loss?  Or your feelings?  I'm not trying to make you tear up again, but what hurts most?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Defeat.
Q. You said so in English a few moments ago, but you feel that the audience was disrespectful?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I think the audience was really tough today.  I can't really understand.  I don't know how to explain.  If you had been in my shoes on the court, I think you would have understood.
I don't know what people were expecting.  I'd rather not say anything more.
Q. To try and wind down and get over all this tension, and we can also feel anger and bitterness in your heart.  You said that you also feel relieved.  You are no longer the titleholder.
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Yes, I keep getting the same questions over and over again, are you under pressure and everything.  Of course it's a privilege to come here when you won last time.  There are very few girls who can claim that.
But I'm leaving here quite happy because none of the matches I played were easy.  They were all tough, all three of them.
Today was tough, too, and I didn't win.  But I'm still very enthusiastic.  I'm going to try to further improve my game to play my best tennis.
Q. You always learn from your defeats.  What did you learn today?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I don't know.  It's such a special tournament for me.  I won it last time.  I really enjoy playing here.  So it's very difficult.
What did I learn?  Nothing special.  Try not to hear things and focus on my team.
Q. Do you think you're going to suffer for long, or do you think it will be over tomorrow?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Yeah, well, I think today I can't really think about anything else.  It's such an important tournament for me.  I'm sure it's going to hurt.  More than other tournaments.
But as I said, I'm quite pleased with my result.  I'm not going to be too dramatic about this.  I just had a very tough opponent today.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT