THE CHAMPIONSHIPS WIMBLEDON
July 14, 2017
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How do you feel about the Women's Tennis Association poll to find the best-dressed player at Wimbledon?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: What?   
 Q.  The WTA is running an on-line vote to find the best-dressed women's player this year at Wimbledon.  I just wondered if you thought it might be something that's a bit demeaning or frivolous after so many attempts to raise the profile of the women's game and get it treated seriously?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: What a question to start (smiling).   
I didn't even knew that.  I didn't read anything.  I don't know.  It's hard to say who is the best.  I didn't read anything yet.  Just have to see.   
 Q.  You're included amongst a number of others.  I wondered if you thought it was a sexist way of looking at the women's game rather than a serious one?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I don't know who is doing this.  Doesn't really make -- it's not very important anyway so far, so...   
 Q.  Can you describe your feelings the day before a Grand Slam final.  Since this is your third time in this situation, how does it feel different this time compared to others?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I'm feeling pretty good.  I think it's a good moment right now.  It goes very fast.  So I'm trying to enjoy.  The previous times, you know, you're so concentrated that you cannot enjoy as well.   
I know tomorrow I'm looking forward a lot to go on the court.  Last match here.  Try to change things after the last two years.  That's it.  Just trying to enjoy also.   
 Q.  Venus Williams is the oldest women's singles player to reach the final since Martina Navratilova.  She's 37 years old.  What are your thoughts about that?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I think it's very impressive.  I think not everybody can do that.  It goes a lot also, you know, with the strength of your body, your style of game.   
For me, it's incredible.  I don't think I could be 37 and playing that level.   
 Q.  What do you think it says about her commitment to the sport and her mental approach to the game?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I think she just loves to play and she enjoys going out there.  At least it's what it shows.  Keep playing, even though she achieve so many things.  She's still motivated to go for more, which is also very surprising.   
 Q.  A few days ago you said you're not even sure how you made it to the final in 2015.  How did you make it to this final?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, you know, that final that I did helped me a lot to figure it out a way to play better in grass, because before I was, like, not very experienced.  Never played a lot of tournaments.  You know, it was just a very surprising moment when you reach a final in a tournament where you thought it was going to be difficult.   
Right now I know how to play more on grass.   
 Q.  Can you sort of compare yourself to the player you were when you won the French Open last year?  Do you feel you're much more equipped now to be a Grand Slam champion, now that this is your third final?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I'm different, but not very different.  It's not a long time ago.  I think my mind is more equipped this time because the more experience you get, the more you know how to deal with these situations, because they're very special.  If you felt it before, it's really helpful.   
So I just have more information about the situation.   
 Q.  Venus said maybe she was going to ask some advice from her sister Serena how to play against you.  How do you prepare?  Are you concerned what kind of style of play your opponent has?  Are you going to adjust your play style depending on your opponent?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I try not to change a lot of things because I think my game, if I have a good level, you know, it's very good to go out there and have a lot of chances to win.   
You know, I played her also before.  We played a few matches together, as well.  I think we both know and felt how are our games.  So far nothing very different.   
 Q.  Have you thought about if you win the final, so be it, and if you don't win it, so be it?  Has that crossed your mind how you would feel, how you will react?  Will it be that bad or good?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, definitely I want to win, for sure.  Is very different to hold the trophy than to have -- you know.  I really felt when I achieved the final in 2015, and I won the French Open, I could feel the difference between winning a Grand Slam and not winning.  I think it's a huge difference.   
So I definitely want to be the one who takes the big one.   
 Q.  Do you have any memories of watching Venus in her early Wimbledon finals when you were growing up?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I might have seen few moments maybe.  I don't like to watch entire match because I think, you know, I'm a tennis player, and with less I enjoy also.   
I don't remember specifically.  But, yeah, I think I saw a few images.   
 Q.  There was so much focus and expectation on you after you won in Paris last year.  Do you feel like you've been a bit more under the radar at Wimbledon this year?  Has that helped you?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I try not to, I don't know, see what people are saying or writing or something like that.   
I feel like people have expectations on me.  Maybe there's few players are playing better, and maybe they look better for the trophy or something.  But I feel like every time I go to a tournament, I have the weapons to reach the final rounds.   
So I don't know.  Hopefully people always see me as an option to win.   
 Q.  Conchita is obviously helping you out here.  Would you say she's helped you more technically or mentally, and why?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I think I'm here because I've done a hard work before.  The magic doesn't happens just because somebody comes in, and all of a sudden you are incredible.  No.   
I think she's helping me how to deal with the tournament, because obviously it's a Grand Slam, and it's difficult to handle because it's two weeks.  She has experience.   
But, you know, it's the work that I've been doing with her here and before with my previous team, and everything together, it's working.   
 Q.  Often these matches end up being decided with one big key:  somebody serves well, somebody returns well.  Going into this match, what for you is going to be the one thing that you're most focused on?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I think we both have a very aggressive games.  I think the serve is going to be very important, because she has a pretty big serve.  I try to have a big one, as well.   
Probably being aggressive, you know, serve, all this.  Fast points are important.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT