THE CHAMPIONSHIPS WIMBLEDON
July 11, 2017
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
G. MUGURUZA/S. Kuznetsova   
6-3, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Your thoughts on how you were able to get through that match, what it means for you to be back in the Wimbledon semifinals.  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, it means a lot.  You know, especially since that final, and last year losing in second round, to be able to go deep in the tournament still with chances.   
I'm very happy and very pleased also with this match, because obviously Kuznetsova is a very tough opponent.  We all know she has been and is a great player.  I managed to play a good level during all the match.  I earned the victory.   
 Q.  How would you assess the way you're playing right now versus when you won a major, when you made a major final?  What's that comparison like for you?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I think a lot of things has to click to be able to, you know, win a major.  I think I'm feeling pretty good.  I'm being aggressive and not doing a lot of errors that maybe I could do sometimes.  So it's a bunch of things.  Being physically good, as well, with all the matches.   
If you put everything together and in place, you can maybe have a very good performance.   
 Q.  Who is the better player, the person who won a major and made a final or the person you are right now?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I don't know.  I mean, I'm not trying to compare.  I felt very good when I won the major.  I think I'm in a similar path.  Let's say like that.  I don't know.   
 Q.  Previously you might have gone for winners a little bit more.  It looks like now you're just focusing on getting the ball back deep, not trying to finish the point too early.  Would you say that was a fair assessment?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I'm not changing a lot of things.  I think today was tough with the conditions, to be able to hit super clean, make a lot of winners.  I have to maybe work more the point, especially with those kind of players that are very good defensive, they're very solid.   
I don't think I have to, you know, do a lot of errors if I want to beat them.   
 Q.  Svetlana and her coach both seemed to feel you were receiving coaching from your box.  Did you feel like what you were getting from your box was within the rules?  Do you understand why they were upset?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, they were cheering for me, I know.  She speaks Spanish.  The coach is Spanish.  They could perfectly understand everything they were saying.   
Honestly, they were just cheering for me.  I like when my team is behind me.  But nothing really tactical or specific.   
 Q.  Thoughts on your next two opponents?  Coco you played in Australia, and Rybarikova.  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yeah, I played against them.  That's a good part, that I know what to expect more or less.  Rybarikova, a long time I didn't play against her, but I can see that her game is still there.   
No matter who is going to win, the one that is in semifinals is because she's playing a great tennis.  So I'm just going to expect another tough match.  So I'm ready.   
 Q.  Svetlana said she wasn't complaining about the coaching, even if that's what it was.  She thinks it should be allowed in the slams.  What is your view?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: What shouldn't be allowed?   
 Q.  Coaching from the box.  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I don't think they were coaching.   
 Q.  She said it should be allowed anyway.  What is your view?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I never thought of that.  I think, well, we also have an advantage in the WTA, the coach comes in the court.  So I don't know.  I don't know what to say.  I never thought about it.   
In some matches you feel some people are already coaching.  I don't know.  I don't know if that would maybe lose the essence.  I don't know what to tell you.   
 Q.  Do you feel you're getting more tactically aware the longer you play on the tour, read the game and understand how to beat your opponents better than you used to?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I think the opponents that I have played, I played against them a lot of times, except maybe the first two rounds, which are a lot of new players, just that I didn't play.  But after that, when you're in these rounds, generally you face people that I faced before.   
We know each other, so maybe one day you play better, maybe the other one plays better.  But I'm handling pretty good, for sure.   
 Q.  What gives you the most confidence right now?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I think just knowing how to deal with these important matches.  I think that's the toughest part.  Knowing that you got there, you're playing quarterfinals of Wimbledon, that is the match you want to go and play and win.  It's also a combination of not being too anxious, not being too nervous, try to free your mind, just try to concentrate on the tennis part, not about everything else.   
 Q.  Where does that come from, that ability to do that?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I think I've been working on that since a long time.  Before I was more emotional.  You know, I was showing more emotions on the court.  Now I'm trying to handle it better.   
I think that's experience.  Like I said before, the year I made final here, I felt like I was a completely different player.  Now I maybe feel more solid mentally, going out there knowing what to do.  I think it's with experience and the years.   
 Q.  Talk about Venus Williams a little bit.  She seems to be the most complete, polished player.  Other players maybe are works in progress, not as much experience.  What is the difference with Venus Williams?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I think this is her 20th Wimbledon.  So for sure that's going to help her.  I think in general she knows how to play.  She knows where is important moment of the match.  She is very talented.  So is a combination of everything.   
She's obviously one of the best players out there.  She obviously knows how to play under pressure and in the big stage tournaments.  That's also good for her.   
 Q.  Do you remember anybody who was sitting in the Royal Box when you made the final here?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: No.   
 Q.  You don't remember anyone?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: No.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT