THE CHAMPIONSHIPS WIMBLEDON
July 10, 2017
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
G. MUGURUZA/A. Kerber   
4-6, 6-4, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How would you describe the match?  It seemed from our side it was high quality.  What was it like being part of it?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I think was a good match.  I know I won it, but I think was a good match for both of us.  You know, we battle out there.  Every point we give our best.   
Every match that I play against Kerber is like that.  I remember two years ago when we played here, was a quite similar match.   
Happy that it went my way, of course, after fighting there for two hours.   
 Q.  You're always very much the aggressor when you play against Kerber.  Is that a plan you think you have to have against her?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, that's the way I play, I think.  As always, I like to take my chances, go for it.  I'm not trying to hope in anything.  That's what I was doing.   
That's part of my game also, to go for it.   
 Q.  Before the tournament began, many people said without Serena Williams here the field is wide open.  Now that you're into the quarterfinals, how do you assess the field and your chances?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, obviously a lot of people ask me if not having Serena is a big change.  Well, I think so, because she's always in the final.  Of course, it's a big change.   
But I still never think about that far, unless I'm in a final, I don't know, or almost there.  Because tomorrow I got to play another tough match.  There's a lot of players still there that have the option.   
So I'm not going to try to look that far.  I just want to be realistic.  Tomorrow I got to play and keep it, you know, that way, so I don't have all these things going through my mind.   
 Q.  When people say the field is wide open, what is your reaction to that?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yeah, of course, a lot of players have more chances that maybe before was harder because there were other players that were controlling more.   
But, yeah, everybody knows that.  So we'll see who wants it more or who ends up earning the trophy.   
 Q.  How crucial was that game that lasted about 10, 12 minutes where you held at 4-3?  Was that the decisive moment?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yeah, that definitely was an important game.  The serve in grass is, you know, good to hold it because is a very fast surface.  If you serve well, it's very easy to keep it.   
Yeah, you know, I fight.  She was fighting.  Every point was kind of, you know, incredible.  I was expecting that anyway, so I was ready to face that situation.   
 Q.  Your French Open was very emotional.  How happy are you that you've been able to bounce back, get on track with another great run a few weeks after that?  No emotional hangover from Paris.  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: No, I actually change page.  I was a little bit, you know, sad of course.  But I liked it the way I handled it.  I wasn't at all, like, sad or with the spirit down.  I said, Look, grass starts.  I did well, I'm here.  I have everything to win.  I want to go back on the top.   
That's what I'm trying to do.  I didn't feel that hangover.   
 Q.  In the first set, Kerber seemed to deal with everything you threw at her.  Were you worried at that point she might continue to play that well and you couldn't do anything about it?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I mean, I wasn't worry.  I thought that I was playing good.  I knew she's also, c'mon, a very good player.  She's No. 1, of course.  So I was just happy.  I'm like, Just continue playing like this and I will have my chance.  That's what I was telling myself.   
I was ready for a battle.  I was ready to expect everything, you know, three-hour match, not three-hour crazy, long points, everything.   
 Q.  It was such a close match, with tough rallies.  Do you think it was crucial that you had some more or less free points with your volley?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, when you have somebody that it's so, you know, physically strong, so solid, the more you win free points or make it shorter, it's better.  And it's also part of my game.  Like I said before, I like to don't wait 20 shots.  You know, I go for it.   
Yeah, today I think was a key to make short points sometimes.   
 Q.  I know as competitors you get put on a court, you play, you don't matter where it is.  In the grander picture, what it means about women's tennis, both of you are former Grand Slam champions, you weren't put on Centre Court or Court 1.  What do you think that means in terms of how the tournament treats the women's game?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I don't want to talk really about that.  I think they decided who is more convenient.  Of course, I was looking at the matches today.  Honestly, every match is very, very good.   
I don't know.  If they decided that, I'm happy with that.  I don't want to make any problem.  I'm so focused on what I do, I don't care if I played on 13, 1, 5.  Okay, 2 is my court.   
Probably maybe I was expecting another court.  But after looking at the matches, I'm like, Well, that's it.   
 Q.  Playing Angie, she's No. 1, but has had a rough year.  Does that make it different than your attitude going into a match against other No. 1's you played before?  She hasn't had any top-20 wins this year.  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yeah, I think it must be difficult to be in her position.  I've never been No. 1 yet.  Hopefully one day.   
I'm not thinking that way.  I know that certain players, no matter what the ranking they are, they're going to be a tough match.  Doesn't matter if I play Kerber and she's 1 or 70, I knows is going to be a tough match.  If they play against me, doesn't matter if I'm 1, 3 or 20.  Because they're top players, they have it.  The ranking is temporary and it changes.  One year you have a good tournament, then you don't have a good tournament.  But the level is there.   
I was just, you know, not thinking about the ranking or her moment on anything.   
 Q.  What are your thoughts against facing Svetlana, with all that she's accomplished in her career?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I look forward for the match.  We played this year at the beginning.  All the matches that I play against her, they're tough.  We practice a lot of times in Spain together.   
I think if she's here, she's playing great.  I think today she did good.  So, yeah, expecting a difficult match.   
 Q.  What are the tactical similarities and differences between you?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I think I just got to go play like today, be aggressive.  She has kind of a Spanish style.  I don't know.  But I like the way she plays.  She's very talented and very nice shots.   
I got to go for it.  I got to earn the match with her.   
 Q.  What do you mean she has a Spanish style?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, you know, she trains a lot in Spain.  She has a very good forehand, nice serve as well.  I don't know.  It's details that makes it like styles and stuff.   
 Q.  You had three straight-set matches before this one.  Is it good to have a test like this at this stage in the tournament to get you prepared for perhaps even tougher tests to come?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Uhm, yeah, of course.  I think, well, if I have to choose, I rather win in two sets, of course.  But, you know, I'm happy that today I had to go for the victory, really dig in, 'cause that brings me a certain pleasure and satisfaction out of that.   
Makes me think like, A, I have the level, I'm playing good.  She's a top player.  You know, it's a nice victory.   
 Q.  I know you know Conchita very well.  How different has it been not having Sam with you, especially at a Grand Slam?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, it has been different, of course.  When you go to a Grand Slam, you always want to have your full team, because it's very important.   
But every time I play Fed Cup, I always bring Sam, and Conchita is there.  They kind of connect very well.  They are always in contact.   
Uhm, it feels nice to have, you know, a face that I know there.  Obviously she can give me a lot of tips when I go out there.  So, yeah, I think it's a nice change.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT