INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA
May 14, 2017
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








An interview with:
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Is that a new haircut?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: A little bit new, yeah.
Q. I guess that your clay season has to start yet, given your results?  Would you like to comment about your confidence and entering a new tournament here?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Yeah, obviously I would like to play more matches than I did.  I still have chances, two more tournaments to play a little bit more, hopefully here.
Last year I remember I played quite well here, so I hope this year I can do something similar.
Q. You have to defend points from semifinal, final in French Open.  Do you feel the pressure to repeat your results or is it just everyday stuff?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Not really.  I know if I don't do it now, maybe I will work to try to do it later.  So there is no rush because I have right now to defend a lot, because I have way more tournaments after.
Q. Do you feel like one of the favorites for the rest of the clay season, given the fact that Serena is not here, Maria is still, you know, getting into the game, Vika is not here?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Yeah, I think in clay I played very well, and, yeah, I could be one of the girls that could play good also because I grew up playing on clay, so maybe I feel a little bit more familiar with that.
So far the last two tournaments weren't that not good, so we'll see.
Q. Two losses in the first round.  Do you think it's just a matter of confidence?  Are you feeling well physically?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Yeah, I'm feeling well physically.  I think it's just maybe not a very good two tournaments, but I'm not very worried about that.  I think I will figure my level back again.
Q. Obviously in Madrid you had a tough loss, and afterwards you said it just didn't click for you.  How long does it take you in general to put these sort of losses behind you?  Is that something that you just brush aside within a day, or is that something you keep thinking about during the next few days?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, Madrid, no, as soon as I get out of the court I was gone already.  I think I didn't have any expectation for the tournament.  I never play very good there, so I was not very sad about that.
So normally, yeah, if you kind of, you know, lose too early and stuff like that, you feel sad, but with that tournament, I always switch fast.
Q. Do you feel like your level is there?  Are you practicing well?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Yeah, I'm practicing well.  I'm trying to practice actually a lot, and I think my level is there.  It's just finding the right moment and to do the same on the match, because sometimes can be different.  Yeah.
Q. Is it a pressure thing?  Obviously winning Roland Garros last year, you proved what you can do, so are you feeling the pressure more this year perhaps?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: No, I mean, it's just last year, of course it's a new condition for me.  I'm going to go out there, and everybody is telling me pressure, no pressure.  I'm sure I have some responsibility being the defending champion, but other than that, no.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT