MIAMI OPEN PRESENTED BY ITAú
March 25, 2017
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








G. MUGURUZA/S. Zhang
4-6, 6-2, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Strong finish at the end.  How do you sum up your performance?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, another tight match honestly.  I think she played very well.  I remember the match we played in Doha and it was like today basically.
I think I played well as well.  The first set was few points difference honestly.  Then in the second set I came stronger.  I said, Look, if yesterday I could come back, I can today as well.
So I just keep my spirit up.  I try to be more aggressive.  I try to, I don't know, be more positive; stop looking the negative things of losing the first set.
Then everything went more like the -- with more flow I think.
Q. That was my question.  How important do you feel like yesterday's win was to take you through the rest of the tournament?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I mean, a win is a win, obviously.  I don't wish to have every day matches like so, so tough, but I'm very happy with the way I'm facing them.  Today was another one.
Since I started the year I had a lot of matches like this, and I'm expecting every time I go to the court all these girls play very loose with me.  They play great.
I have a little bit of responsibility there, so it's a good matchup.
Q. Did you think that comes with the territory of being a top player, knowing you're going to face a lot of women out there who are eager to beat you as opposed to when you were coming up the rankings and maybe playing that part yourself?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: For sure.  I think it's very tough, especially the first round with players that you don't maybe play them a lot.  They are very good players as well.  The difference is not that big.  They play very good and you are in danger all the time, like these matches.
Yeah, I'm just going through these situations with the best attitude possible, being humble, trying to accept it, and find my way.
Q. Up next is either Wozniacki or Cirstea.  How do you approach that next match?  Two very different styles.
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yeah, very different.  Well, Cirstea this year I played with her in Australian Open, and Wozniacki, we've played a lot of times.  I think we know how she plays.  She's playing well.  I saw her few results and she's kind of playing very good.
Well, it's going to be another battle I'm telling you, for sure.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT