AEGON CLASSIC
June 22, 2017
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
G. MUGURUZA/A. Riske   
6-1, 6-4   
 Q.  Well done, Garbiñe.  You were hitting the ball very well today.  How did that come about?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Yes.  I was hitting the ball pretty good.  I think she also was playing pretty good.  So it was a very kind of equal match.  The balls were very long, a lot of rallies, which is not usual maybe on this surface.  Yeah, I think a good level of tennis.   
 Q.  The court is obviously a bit softer today.  How did you find the change in conditions because obviously you've been playing in very hot weather, very fast.  What was it like today?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, today it was a little bit colder, and it was like the ball was a little bit slower.  And sometimes the court is a little bit wet, so it can be faster, but after we hit the balls, they're really big, the ball.  You know, it's like kind of wet, so it's a little fluffy, but I think it was good.  We kind of adapt pretty fast and then we start through the first ball going for the match both of us.   
 Q.  And your leg?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: My leg was just I felt it in the match, the first match.  And I think it was just because of the toughness, and then today was much better.  But it's the kind of tape to make the muscle be more relaxed.  It's not like I really need the strong tape.   
 Q.  What was the fact she was hitting the ball well, was that good for your rhythm, did you think?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Yeah, I think so.  I felt comfortable out there.  I think both of us we kind of enjoy each other our ball.  And that's why we were playing good points and serving well.  And we were fighting.  I enjoyed actually some points.   
 Q.  And were there any parts to your game you weren't happy with out there?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: No, not actually.  I think I -- I don't know.  You always want to play better, I guess.  Just maybe a few points I could, I don't know, turn it around it didn't go my way.  But nothing specifically.   
 Q.  Your potential finalist, you've got sort of negative record against them in head-to-heads.  Does that worry you at all, Konta and Vandeweghe.  You've lost to them more times than you've beaten them.  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Oh.  I mean, yeah, I don't even know who I'm playing, so right now I don't know.  I don't really care.  Yeah, I just will go for the match.  I don't look at, oh, I lost it last time or she beat me.  Yeah, for sure you remember, but you get a new match.  Nobody really cares, unless it's something very important, but if you lose to somebody, you are happy to play them again and get revenge, I guess.   
 Q.  So you're ready for anyone?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Yeah, no matter what is going to be in front of me, I'll go for it.   
 Q.  The draw has obviously been wide open because of a lot of withdrawals.  The women's game is wide open going into Wimbledon.  What do you feel your chances are of actually making a really good deep run here and how do you feel that would set you up for Wimbledon?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I feel like a lot of people are thinking because the three big names or four or whatever are not playing now, everybody is thinking, oh, that's my opportunity or I should reach the final.  And in fact, it is not happening for a bunch of girls that maybe were like the next ones to win.  So I don't really know what to tell you.  I think everybody is playing very good tennis, and I see the winners, and it's the players that weren't the favorite and they managed to win the title.  So I think it's very equal.  Once maybe this bunch of players are not playing, everything is very equal right now.   
 Q.  With experience of going deep on a big grass court tournament like Wimbledon, how much does that experience come into it when you've got young girls coming in and calling shots on other surfaces.  Do you think because you've got experience on grass it will give you an edge?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I think there's good things about experience, but one of the things is you kind of are more consistent.  When you're young and talented, you can have a break-through week and after, you can't play.  And then after, you play.  And after -- you know, so the good thing about that is we know maybe how to manage more when you go winning into a tournament, and you've been there before, so you know what to do.  So that's what I'm taking with me.  You know, like just recover.  I think it's going to play doubles now.  I think it's going to help me just to keep on working and fixing maybe some stuff that probably I didn't do in the singles.  And I love Cibulkova, so I think it's going to be -- I don't know.  We'll have fun there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT