BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 14, 2017
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








G. MUGURUZA/E. Svitolina
7-6, 1-6, 6-0
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Do you feel better being able to tell Roger that you won?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, yeah.  I think it was a very difficult match today.  It was like a test, because she has been winning, like, 15 matches in a row, and she just getting to top 10, as well.  I was, like, okay, it's going to be a tough match and she has a very difficult game, as well.
I'm pretty happy about my match.  It wasn't easy at all.
Q. Talk about the first set.  You had the lead and she started to come back and you were able to come back and reset things, it seemed, at the end of it.
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Yeah, I was controlling -- I felt like I almost had to control the match.  Not really the second set.  I think she played very good in the second set.  But in that first set, I started very well, and I knew that that match can turn around so easily, you know.  It's going to be a battle.
And I accept it that she came back.  Then I keep fighting until the tiebreak, and it was, like, two points' difference.  Yeah, it was a very intense first set.
Q. What happened in that second set?  Seemed like you just got over the line, and then all of a sudden she kind of played out of her skin and you went down a level.  Does that happen so much in tennis these days?  You win a tiebreak or tight set and then you kind of are relieved, and all of a sudden it can turn around so quickly?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I'm not sure.  I think she just went for her shots.  It was like, kind of, lost the first set and I'm just going to hit it and change something.  She was going for her shots and she played very good.
I tried to keep my level, my style, everything on this -- like, in the same line.
But I think she played very comfortable.  In the third set, things went back again to normal, kind of, you know.  It was just, like, a very good set for her.
Q. Do you usually tend to have a Plan B during matches?  Did you go to one today?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I think I can play in a very different ways.  And today I knew it was going to be difficult, because even though you try different things, you are playing against a top-10 player and you can, you know, not win.
But, yeah, I think so.  I think so.  I was just trying to do my game today, basically, and because I think that was the way.
Q. Is that your usual approach?  You just want to play your game?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, in general, yeah.  I have confidence that if I do my game that's what I know better.  I think I'm going to perform better, especially when you play those girls.
Q. Talking about her a little bit, you mentioned she had gotten into the top 10.  For you, when you look at a player who used to be top 20 and breaks through, what is the thing that makes you up your level of respect for a player?  Is it wins or ranking or quality of the win, like beating a top player?  How do you kind of look at players differently?  What's important to you?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, I think to make the change you have to -- when the match comes, the match where top 20, top 10, and you win that kind of matches, you have to win those top 10 players to be able to earn your space over there.
You know, if you always lose in second and third rounds, it's really hard to go far in the tournaments and earn the points and make your own place there.
So I think it's just winning those tough matches when it comes and you have top-10 player in front of you and you have to win.
Q. You had a few injuries over your career.  What did you learn more and more about how to prevent them?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: That I'd rather prevent and take my time off the court than risk get injured and stop.  I think when I got injured was the worst, because I couldn't do anything.  I felt so bad that I really want to take care of myself.
And, you know, I know you always have pain.  We always have pain when we are there, but, you know, really take care, like, consciously, about your body.
Q. But also take more time off if you're feeling not great?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, now I play more -- I take more attention to the recovery.  Before I was, like, more, Oh (indiscernible).  But now I'm more like, I have to do this, this, this, this.  There is no other way.  I'm more organized in that aspect.
Q. Last year was such a fun period for you heading into the French Open.  Does that give you a little bit of confidence heading into that time of year, as well, looking back on moments?  Does it give you time to reflect?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I'm not thinking, honestly, on what is coming.  I'm hearing Indian Wells and Miami, and Stuttgart, and Madrid.  I have so many tournaments until French Open comes that I'm not really thinking on that.
When I'm going to go out there, I'm going to think about it, but I think it's more important to concentrate here than having in the back of my mind last year and last year.  Last year is gone already, so I'm trying to, you know, today a match, very important, try to win and try to continue for it.
Q. Do you feel you're a much better player than this time last year?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Oh, yeah, I think so.  I think -- I think last year here I didn't do very well, and I came with a lot of motivation to try to do different.
I think so.  I think I'm changing as a player, as well, with all the experience and all the work, all the tournaments, everything.  And it's less -- it's more normal a lot of things that before were a little bit strange.
Q. Do you prefer tournaments -- this is obviously a week-and-a-half tournament so you have day on, day off, day on, day off, and it switches and you have match, match, match.  Do you prefer the time when it's no day off, match, match, match, or prefer the day on, day off kind of schedule?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I think I prefer day on, day off.  You have one day to recover, to work, to prepare next opponent.  Because sometimes you have tough matches, and next day you have to go on court.  Tough match.  You reach a moment where you're exhausted, and you're exhausted in the last round, which is the most important match.
I think the good part of these tournaments is you have time to recover.  And when you have important match, you are fresh to play.
Q. Looking ahead to Pliskova?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, I think it's one of the toughest matches I can have now.  I think she's playing very good.   She has been very consistent, and, yeah, I have been watching her.
She has, you know, her game and very aggressive, good serve.  So I'm just going to go out there and try to do my game, try to be concentrate.  I know it's a tough match.
So, yeah, I cannot do more than give it all there.
Q. Is it a different mentality when you're playing another big hitter as to maybe a more defensive player?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: No.  I think you have to adjust a few things against who you're playing.  But my mentality doesn't really change unless it's a very different surface, very different player, or something like that.  I'm very truth to my game.
Q. What are your thoughts on tomorrow, Roger and Rafa playing.  It seems weird, middle of the week, instead of the weekend they're facing each other.  Do you notice or do you even think about it at all?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: You know what?  I think everybody -- nobody cares who wins anymore.  It's just I want to see them play, you know, (smiling).  It's so good to watch them play together same time on the court.  Doesn't matter.  I just want to watch the match, you know.  I'm so fond of both of them.  It's so good they have this match tomorrow.
They are playing well again, and, well, they are always playing well.  But they are more often facing each other.  There was a period of time -- they're facing a lot more now.  I don't know.  I'm a big fan, so it's so good.
Q. Is it a big event amongst even the players when they play each other?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I don't know.  I don't know about the other players.  I think everybody is going to watch that match, honestly.  Everybody likes Rafa.  Everybody likes Roger.  It's history over there.  Doesn't matter if they are No. 3, amazing player (photographer interference).  Going to watch, for sure.
Q. Just to follow up on that.  You're from the same country as Rafa.   Can anyone from Spain root for Roger against Rafa or is that taboo?  You get in trouble in Spain?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I'm not sure.  Obviously all the people I know in Spain are for Rafa, but I guess it must be weird, like, somebody in Spain, say, I love Roger.  Everybody gonna be, like, What?  You're, like, betraying us.
I think they all love Roger, as well.  I guess they feel more the country and colors and it really -- you know, they want to support Rafa.  It's normal.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT