ROLAND GARROS
May 29, 2017
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
G. MUGURUZA/F. Schiavone   
6-2, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please.   
 Q.  A tough first match, as you knew going in.  What do you think made the difference out there?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Yeah, I think it was a tough first match.  I think Schiavone, she can be a very tricky player.  I think she has moments where she's unbelievable, and it's going to be, no matter who in front of me difficult.  I mean, doesn't matter.  If Schiavone on first round, I thought, that's a tough match here.   
I'm happy that I managed to play, to be able to be kind of composed out there, because I wasn't sure how I was going to react again in the center court, playing against an ex-champ.  You know, I wanted to do it well, so I kind of found a balance, even though some moments were difficult to become.   
 Q.  Because you're the champion, it's easy for us to forget that you were not in the best form when you came here last year.  How do you compare your arrival at Roland Garros this year to last year?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, every time I come here I kind of know a little bit more what to do and what not to do.   
I'm not really thinking what's the difference.  I'm just dealing with this new situation, I would say, and trying to -- I'm trying to keep everything away from my mind, concentrating, like, little steps, like today, and forget about what happened last year, just make it simple.   
 Q.  You said after the match on court that Francesca is a legend.  What do you think makes her a legend?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, she has been in the tour for such a long time, I think, and when I look back on some videos, I heard her name since I'm, like, I don't know how old.  She's still playing.  She's fitter than most of the players.  I'm, like, how is possible?   
I think she loves it.  She kind of enjoys out there.  Today I think it was just a tough match for both of us, because we kind of love here.   
I don't know.  I saw her match in the final here, and I kind of like it.  I was happy that she won the French Open at that time.   
 Q.  There was that break in the first set.  What were you telling yourself?  Because after that, you went and, you know, won 12 straight points.  But it was a long break.  What were you kind of telling yourself to refocus?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I was thinking it's like normal.  I didn't go to the court thinking I'm going to win 6-2, 6-2 and everything is clean and perfect.  All the options were in my mind.   
I was ready, and I knew at some point she was going to come up with some great shots.  I'm going to be also tense and nervous, and I think that was the moment.   
I just knew it was gonna happen.  So I kind of, you know, accepted and just tried to figure out how can I figure out how can I turn things around.   
 Q.  There was a moment when there were 15 points in a row for you and 19 points out of 20.  How do you explain that?  And the second question is, do you see yourself when you will be 36 to be as competitive as Francesca Schiavone?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I wasn't thinking in how many points I was winning.  I just had very clear -- very clear what I was going to do on the court and I was going to die with that.  I'm going to do that, this, and this.  Nothing special.  Just my game, basically.  You know, really make it simple and easy for me to don't have all these things in my mind.   
And I don't see myself playing at 36 with that shape.  I think she has spectacular body, also, to be able to do that.  I don't know if my body can handle with how many injuries I have, and I'm 23.  So it's gonna be tough.   
 Q.  Do you feel the difference playing as a defending champion in terms of confidence?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: No.  I think I know I played good here before.  That doesn't make me extra confident this year.  I think I just have to earn that confidence here, and, like today, going out there, trying to deal with things.  That's what brings me confidence.  Not remembering how I played last year, you know.   
I think that's gonna help me every little step.   
 Q.  Can you preview your next match a little bit?  You're playing Kontaveit, someone you played in Stuttgart, someone who has played really well this clay season, another tough opponent, a tough challenge.  Can you give us an outlook on that match.  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Yeah, I heard I was playing with her again.  It's another tough match for second round.  I played her in Stuttgart, and she played very well there.  I saw her also in Rome.  She did well.  I was watching her also play, which, I don't know, is the first tough match against Schiavone and Kontaveit in second round I think is also difficult.   
 Q.  What do you think about the rankings and the fact that somebody says that here we should play like in Wimbledon with the specific ranking for clay?  I mean, for instance, Kerber is not No. 1 in the world on clay, probably.  Pliskova not even.  You are the champion.  What do you think about having different rankings for clay as it happens also for grass in Wimbledon?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I never thought about that.  I think the ranking is a ranking.  That's it.   
I don't think you should, I don't know, modify just because you think maybe should be in another place.   
I think it's just -- the ranking is not about three tournaments.  It's about the year.  And you cannot move somebody just because she, her style is more beautiful on grass, you know.  I think it should be just fair for everybody.  If she's won, it's for a reason.  I don't think you can move her to another place.  I think it's like -- I don't know, difficult.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Spanish.   
 Q.  We have the impression that Chatrier is kind of like a shield.  Your first round is against a champion.  Second round against another champion.  You are very calm and composed.  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Yes.  You need to be composed.  You need to be focused.  You need to be calm.  Perhaps the public thinks that, okay, she won last year, but you need to avoid being contaminated with these thoughts.  I could have had anyone as an opponent today, but I need to win my own battles, my own fights.   
When I saw that I was going to play Schiavone, I thought, okay, she held the title, too, and I defeated her.  I'm very happy with the way I managed the match.   
 Q.  What were your feelings coming back to Roland Garros as the titleholder?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: A lot of people have already asked me how I feel.  It's true that I might have expected other emotions on Chatrier when I won, but in fact, it was much less emotional when I understood that I'm not necessarily better than other players.  So sure, I won the French Open last year, but I'm going to need to fight.  So the emotions didn't last very long.   
 Q.  What can you tell us about Kontaveit?  She defeated you in Stuttgart, so it's not an easy draw.  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Yes, I know.  It's a tough draw.  It's going to be a tough game.  She's doing a very good season on clay.  She has an aggressive game play, too.  So I'm going to start by enjoying my win today, and then I'll wonder about the approach for the next game, which will be tough.   
 Q.  You were saying that you were trying to keep things simple.  What exactly do you mean?  You have an idea and you try not to be too confused?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: It's in fact the first time that I'm in a Grand Slam event as the titleholder.  So someone makes a comment, tells you that you're the favorite, and everyone says, You're gonna win again.   
But I try to keep all of that out of my mind, whoever the opponent may be, what I managed to do last year was something else.  If you think too much about these things, it's confusing.  You need to focus on the actual game that you're playing.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT