INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA
May 20, 2017
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
E. SVITOLINA/G. Muguruza   
4-1 [ret.]   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  First of all, tell us what's going on with your injury and how you're feeling.  Going forward, how worried are you about it?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, I think it's actually kind of weird, because I went to the warmup, and I was hitting with the sparring, and he started serving, big serves and stuff, and I was trying to return, and on the return, I hit it and then I'm, like, Sam, I can't move my neck.  So I couldn't really move my neck to this side.   
And then I -- I don't know.  I went to the training room and stuff.  I told them, what could I do?   
Really nothing.  It was just a blocking there.   
 Q.  Is this different than last night, what you had going on last night?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: This?  No, no this is just today.   
 Q.  Yesterday you were having treatment or something after the match.  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Yeah, I had treatment, but it was just, no, from nowhere, nowhere.   
 Q.  Did you think right before the match not to play at all, or you thought for the crowd you need to try and see if you could play a little bit?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, in the warmup, I didn't serve, because I'm like, I can't serve.  So then I'm, like -- I didn't know what to do, because I couldn't really serve in there.   
But I'm, like, I'm going to go on the court.  I'm going to try, you know what, maybe I can serve slower or something.  I didn't want to leave Rome without giving a shot, you know.   
 Q.  Can you tell us a little bit how frustrated are you with it?  Especially considering how good of a week you have had for something like this to just come up out of nowhere in the warmup before the match.  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Yeah.  Well, it's not very good, obviously, because it's something that, I don't know, you do a bad movement, and suddenly your neck got stuck.   
Overall, I think it's a very good week for me, because I wasn't sure how I was going to go at the beginning of the tournament, and then, you know, I think semifinals -- I'm very happy in the way I played the matches, also.  I'm going to keep with that.   
 Q.  This is your fourth retirement in this year.  Is true?  Maybe?  Too many, no?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Many?   
 Q.  Too many for this year?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Yeah.   
 Q.  Different reasons, but...  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Yeah.  I didn't thought about it, but -- well, I think you don't really retire unless you have a problem.  But, yeah, I actually had a few.  Well, I don't know.  I don't know what to tell you about that.   
It was just, I guess, coincidence or things are happening.  I don't know.   
 Q.  Do you think this is something that doesn't feel too serious, that will go away the next few days?  Plenty of time for Paris?  Or it's something you're more worried about continuing to be a problem?  I know it just happened, but how do you feel?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Yeah, I had this before.  Not in the neck, unless you fall asleep like this or something.  It's true.  It's kind of similar, because I'm, like, what can I do when I had treatment?  I had warm towels and stuff.  It's just there.   
 Q.  Are you worried about it for Paris?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: No.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT