AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 20, 2017
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








G. MUGURUZA/A. Sevastova
6-4, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Just take us through your thoughts on how the match went from your perspective.
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, it was important match for me because the last time I -- not the last time, but I remember very clearly the US Open match when I lost.  I thought is not going to happen the same way.  So I'm going to go out there and try to be at least more prepared and more focused.
At the beginning of the match -- I struggled a little bit with the first two games.  I miss a few shots that maybe I shouldn't.  But I keep composed and I just turn it around.  At the end I was playing very well.
Q. When you talk about kind of staying composed, are you telling yourself different things in those moments that maybe in the past, in the fall for example, you were talking a little bit about maybe sometimes the panic, rushing a little bit more?  What's the difference these days?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I think I'm more, like, calmer, if makes sense.  I'm a little bit further from that emotional, you know, craziness when you, like, lose a point, you get upset a little bit.  So I'm taking that a little bit from a distance, you know, try to analyze less, just go for the next point, keep in mind only positive messages.  If I have negative, it's not going to work.
I think basically, simple stuff.
Q. Do you feel like this is the most normal slam emotionally that you've competed at since Paris?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yeah, for sure.  Well, I only played one.  US Open was hard for me, and I lost against her.  Since Roland Garros -- oh, I played Wimbledon, too.  Sorry.  But that was like a drama, too.
So, yes, much better (smiling).
Q. You have Cirstea next.  How familiar are you with her?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I don't know much about her.  I used to see her a little bit more.  I think she got injured and she was away.
Well, she's beating good players.  I saw she beat Carla and a few other girls.  I'm like, Well, she must be playing good.
I mean, I expect another tough match.  I know how she plays.  She's very aggressive.  I'm going to go out there and play like I've been doing these days.
Q. What is your review of yourself after the first week?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I'm proud of how I'm acting on the court, putting my best effort on the court, try to be positive.  I'm happy with that.  Hopefully I can keep as long as possible.
Honestly, I don't analyze that much anymore.  I try to be more simple.
Q. Is that something you've been working on in the last couple of months or is it just something you really feel that's blossomed in this tournament?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I think with the time.  I'm learning a lot with the time.  Before, when you're younger, everything is more emotional, like I said before.  I'm just trying to learn from that, to try to have a step back, just be more relaxed.  When the storm is there, just, you know...






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT