MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 7, 2017
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
T. BACSINSZKY/G. Muguruza   
6-1, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please.   
 Q.  Obviously a very tough day at the office.  Can you take us through a little bit what went on for you out there, how both sets sort of slipped away from you very quickly.  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yeah, I mean, it was a match with a lot of ups and downs.  I think she played pretty intelligent, pretty smart.   
Well, I don't think it was my day.  Honestly, I didn't play very good.  I was missing a lot some shots I should maybe not miss against Timea.   
I think she's a very good player, and she used that moments, especially the important ones, to advance in the game.   
 Q.  What do you feel you could have done differently today?  Can you talk about how big of a disappointment this is for a tournament at home before the French Open three weeks away.  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I mean, it's a disappointing.  Yes, it is.  Honestly, I have zero expectations here because I never really play well here.  Maybe there's circumstances or the conditions.  I don't know what it is exactly.   
But I wish I could perform better today because I've been training pretty hard.  You know, when the match comes, it's just not there, you kind of feel, like, sad.   
 Q.  We're nearly a year removed from your first Grand Slam title at the French Open.  How does life feel different now that you are a Grand Slam champion compared to before?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Nothing really.  I think just the people that look at me and what they write about me.  I think I'm the same person.  I train the same way.  I have the same team.   
Yeah, maybe more responsibility in some situations.  But for that, like nothing else really.   
 Q.  We saw Sam came down twice to talk to you.  I don't know if you were intent on listening.  It looked like you weren't having the best of times out there today.  How much was it disappointing to not get going at times during the match?  How tough is it to play these matches when you can't get your footing at all?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I mean, the tough part is that it is the first match.  Madrid has something different.  I had a tough opponent.   
Well, when my coach comes on the court, I'm just very silent because he has like 1 minute 30 or something like that to say something, give me the key maybe.  So I'm kind of quiet.  That's it.   
I think I couldn't turn it around today.   
 Q.  With the French being three weeks away, how are you setting your own expectations for Rome?  What do you feel you need to do to feel comfortable going into Paris?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I think right now I'm just going to maybe talk with my team a little bit to discuss what was going on in this match, and try to improve it.  I mean, Paris is just there.  It's another tournament.  What I'm trying is, you know, to have less bad days in the year.  Doesn't matter Paris or no Paris is there.  I mean, for the entire year.  That's what is important, to try in these situations to turn it around maybe.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Spanish, please.   
 Q.  The other day you were saying that this year you had worked a lot mentally.  We have seen during the season you have come back in complicated matches.  What were you missing today to be able to come back in the match?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I think that, I don't know, maybe I was a little bit nervous because I was playing at home.  I don't know what it was exactly.  I think I haven't played so well.  My tennis level was not so high as other days.   
But I have to find why and try to make sure it doesn't happen again, try to avoid it.   
 Q.  In the second set you were up 3-Love, you were leading, it seemed like you were going to come back.  What happened there?  You lost six games in a row.  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yeah, I started missing a lot of shots that I shouldn't have missed, especially when I'm playing against a opponent that she changes a lot her game, she changes a lot the rhythm.   
I started 3-0, I played some good games, had some good shots, then I just started missing again.   
I think she was very smart with her serve.  She made a couple of aces.  A couple things decided the match.  I let it go.   
 Q.  Madrid should be a good place for your game.  It seemed like your serve was a problem for you today.  You made a lot of double-faults.  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: As I said before, I haven't played well on this surface because of the altitude.  She served very well, and I didn't.  When I tried to serve, try to make some aces, I made a double-fault.  Maybe I didn't serve as good as I can.  That was the problem.   
 Q.  After losing in Stuttgart and Madrid, I don't know if you're planning to not play so many matches before Roland Garros.  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: No, I played a lot of matches on clay.  I'm not worried about having played more or less matches on clay.  I think it's not an important thing.   
As I said, I'm not so looking forward to Roland Garros.  Everyone is asking about Roland Garros because last year I won there.  But we have Rome right now, then after we have Birmingham, Wimbledon, many other tournaments.   
I'll try to play better in Rome.  What can I say?   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT