AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 14, 2017
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. I was watching the tournament in Brisbane, watching some of your matches there.  You seemed super motivated.  You seemed really excited to be back out on the court.  Do you feel a little bit different this year, maybe refreshed from the off-season and so forth?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I don't feel very different.  I think it's just like the continuation, I don't know if it makes sense, of the last year.
I know it's a new start.  Like you said, I'm very motivated.  I think I'm in a great position to be, and looking forward to play, try to find my best level, hopefully more weeks.
Yeah, that brings me a lot of motivation.
Q. Have you done anything different in your off-season this time compared to previous years?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Not really something different.  I think I did a good preparation with my team.  We focus a lot my kind of weak parts of the body, just to not get injured, or to be more days more prepared for the matches.
I spend a lot of time on the court.  But I think it's part of the pre-season, you know, schedule.
Q. Since Brisbane, what have you been up to in terms of trying to get your body as fit as possible for the tournament?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, when I stop Brisbane, I just rest actually for a lot of days.  Like rest, did nothing, no tennis, no fitness.  I just trying to recover with my physio until I arrived here, and I started playing again.  You know, just refreshing my body from those difficult matches to try to be here 100%.
Q. How have things been feeling for you on court physically and rhythm-wise?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I think good.  I had enough off days to prepare.  I think it took me long than I thought to recover from those matches.
But, yeah, I feel good.  I've been training here for the past three days.  Yeah, I feel ready.
Q. I imagine this tournament has some pretty fond memories for you.  It's probably the first time I really became aware of your potential, the matches you had here two or three years ago.  What is it like to play here compared to the other slams for you?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I remember this was the first Grand Slam -- was it first one?  Was not the first one that I played the main draw, but was the first one that I win a match in the main draw.  I was very happy.  So it brings me a lot of memories, you know, getting into more level matches.  I remember playing on Rod Laver and Hisense.  Like you said, very good matches that make me more, you know, self-confidence.
I think I always play well here, so I'm very happy to be back.  It's one of our favorite tournaments, Australian Open.  They improve a lot of things every year, which is amazing for us.  My manager still remember the first match he saw me here.  It was 14-12 the third set, so is funny (smiling).
Q. Every slam offers different challenges, like specific things to the US Open or the French or Wimbledon that make it difficult.  At the Australian Open, what are the particular challenges of playing this tournament and trying to win it?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I usually fight with the heat.  I mean, I think not only me, everybody fights against the heat.  Sometimes is very tough.  I know when you play in the beautiful center courts, there's air-conditioning.  But we all started in the outside courts, you know, where you have to fight.  It's 40 degrees.  You're exhausted.
So I think that's the most harder.  But I think there's a lot of good things here.  I think I feel when I come to Australia there is like a tennis month.  It's like crazy.  I'm okay, tennis month.  I put the TV, everybody is watching tennis.  The fans, they're so involved in this month because of the tennis.
Q. I remember a match you played at the US Open against Johanna Konta a couple years ago.  She won that match.  It was incredible.  She's gone on from there to be a top-10 player.  She just won in Sydney.  Is that a surprise to you, that she's managed to go from the player that beat you that day?  Did you expect her to be as high as she is right now?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, before we played that match, I knew her before.  She used to train sometimes in Spain.  I remember that match.  It was like five-hours match.  It's true that since that year, kind of, she went very like this, up.
I think she's just a very good player, and she's showing it.  I mean, everybody takes their moment and their timing to start climbing.  But she's definitely showing a lot of consistency since last year.  She's improving, improving.  I saw little bit in Sydney.
So, yeah, she's playing great.
Q. When you think back to those early days when you would play here at this tournament on the outside courts, nobody knew who you were, your manager is walking around outside taking a look, how different was it to play a first-round match when you were a little bit less known, a little bit more anonymous, compared to what is the feeling like nowadays as a top player playing the first match as a Grand Slam?  Mentally and emotionally, how different is that?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Is different but is not that far away.  Okay, like, five years ago I came here, I'm like, I'm in Australia.  It's a Grand Slam.  I walking through the rooms and I see all these top-10 people.  Amazing, I follow them and stuff.  You are so nervous, so nervous.
But now you come and you're so nervous, too, for different reasons.  Is a very important tournament, you work so hard to go out there and play good and perform well.  It's different, but at the same time emotionally it takes a lot of energy.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT