BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 12, 2017
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
G. MUGURUZA /K. Day   
3-6, 7-5, 6-2   
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  What were your impressions on her?  She wasn't someone you knew much about.  She got off to a very good start?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I think she played very good.  She served very well.  I think the first set I didn't play good.  My level was not there.  My shots were not there, and right away she took advantage and she won.   
And then I didn't let that frustrate me.  I'm like, that's all right.  I reset my mind.  I go for the second set and the third.   
I think at the time I was playing a little bit better and better, even though that first set was a little bit bad.   
But I think she played good.  I'm surprised with how she handled, you know, center court and, yeah, very good.   
 Q.  What did Sam kind of tell you when he came down to -- was it more tactical?  I didn't hear it.  Was it more tactical or more, Don't worry about it?  What was the message you were getting from him?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, I think he was telling me to don't let the frustration, like I said before.  Because I wasn't playing really my game, and she was playing good.  You know, it was tough for me, because, you know, I want to play good.  So he just said "Keep playing, keep fighting.  And that's what I did, and I somehow found a better game.   
 Q.  You must be very pleased with how you've been able to come through three-setters this year.  You did very well in Brisbane, fighting, not panicking.  Are you feeling, like, when it comes to those three-setters, or you lose a set, that you're so much more calmer now?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I think I'm improving in general a lot of things, but I know that maybe two years ago this match I wouldn't turn it around, I think, and I think that's experience.   
The way I kind of prepare myself to go out there in the court, to -- you know, the frustration, like we say, it's no secret.  It's just handling the difficult days because that's what counts and what makes the good players and the not-as-good players.   
 Q.  I assume you did not know anything about Kayla Day's dogs?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Dogs?  No.   
 Q.  One is named "Garbiñe" after you.  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: You're kidding me.  (Laughter.)   
 Q.  Her mom apparently named -- they were watching you on TV four years ago at the Australian Open.  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Four years ago?   
 Q.  So early, early.  They said, they were, like, Wow, this player is awesome.  We should name a dog after her.  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: No way.  If I see her -- well, maybe not today (smiling).  I don't know.  I will see her for sure, because I like the way she plays.   
Well, that's funny.   
 Q.  Is that a first for you?  Someone naming an animal after you?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Like a dog, yeah.   
 Q.  Is it weird to have a player -- you're still young -- to have a player who you just played against kind of say, Oh, yeah, this is a player I admire, I look up to.  Because you're not a 28, 29-year-old veteran.  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I mean, I think she's very young, but I feel the same, you know.  When I play with all those big names and, you know, they are older than me and stuff, I do the same.   
I think it's normal, honestly, because that's what sport is.  You have to play with your idol sometimes.  That's being very lucky to play with your idols.   
But, yeah, I mean, I'm happy, honestly.  I'm not gonna lie.  I'm happy if a young girl look at me in that way.   
 Q.  You play one of the hottest players on tour right now, Svitolina.  She won Dubai.  Talk about that matchup.  She's been in really good form.  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I think we have played actually a couple of times already, and I think it's -- I think she's playing very good.  She's going to be a very tough opponent.  She just got to the Top 10 as well.  That's a sign.  It's going to be difficult, yeah.   
 Q.  How was the heat?  Is that particularly bad, or was it okay?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Today was -- I felt it more in my first match.  I don't know why I felt it more.  I knew today was going to be very hot, but it's very dry, as well.  You don't sweat.  You're, like, burning but you don't sweat.  It's key to have those ice towels on the side.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT