BNP PARIBAS WTA FINALS SINGAPORE
October 24, 2016
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. PLISKOVA/G. Muguruza
6-2, 6-7, 7-5
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. It's tough to come out straight from such a long and difficult match, but what do you think happened out there, especially the later stages when it seemed like you had turned it around?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Nothing really happened.  We were both playing good.  I was trying to improve during the match more and more, so I did it.  Obviously I had my opportunities at the match point; didn't play the best I think on that point.  I think I could have played better.
But I think she's always very difficult opponent to play.  You know, even though she can have a big difference in the score, with her serve and shots she can always come back.
I'm a little bit disappointed obviously because I had my chance.  Before I lost to her in an easier way, so I thought tonight I will have my opportunity.  But I will take it hopefully next time.
Q. Just in that third set, how much was tension or just pore execution, bad decision making?  What do you think set up the situation as it was?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Tension, yeah.
Q. Do you think that comes with just not having the match play recently or any other concerns about whether it's physical or anything like that that you can kind of point to to explain it?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, you always are like tense with a player that can serve so hard and can suddenly win a game where you're trying to control it.
So it makes you feel all the time tense.  But that's pretty much.  I think we were both playing well.  I knew that if I didn't took my opportunities at the first time it will be more complicated.
Then she kind of starts to play better and better and her shots and her serve are more there.
Q. You obviously had a pretty late start and finish.  Did that impact you at all?  What was it like being out there so late?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I think you always prefer to finish earlier, but it's what it is.  I felt like was good environment out there.  Obviously the night sessions are the more cool sessions, so I don't really care, honestly.
I was happy to play at that time.
Q. Having a slow start and getting so close to the finish line, does that give you confidence going into your next match?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yeah, I think so.  Obviously now you're a little bit sad because you lost, but I saw a lot of improvement in this match for me, especially when I face her.  So I want to take that positive side.  I know right now you're like, Man, I had a match point, that kind of stuff.  But I had my opportunity there, so that's what I'm going to think.
Q. About this, this is a format where you can lose your first match and rather than fly to the next tournament you have another chance.  Does what help moving forward also and find the positives as you're doing at the minute?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yeah, I think so.  Well, I played here last year and I learned that almost every game counts, because last year like some players were like few games of difference.
So obviously you want to win, but you want to win and give everything you have left so you feel good, like today.
Q. In that second set, what adjustments do you think you made in order to get the comeback and force the third set?  Looked like you were playing good, positive tennis; maybe a little bit more balance with the footwork.
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I think I start to play a little bit more the points.  At the beginning she came with fresh like big serves and good shots.  I was kind of couldn't really give the ball back.  I was missing a lot.
So then I thought about like, Hey, I'm going to play the point.  I'm going to try to fight more in this way and not risk maybe that much.  Just play with her and see what happens.  I just kind of did that.  Maybe take a little bit less risk.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT