AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 24, 2017
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
C. VANDEWEGHE/G. Muguruza   
6-4, 6-0   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Were you surprised by how Coco played this match?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yeah, I was surprised.  I think she played unbelievable.  Three times we played in the past, she didn't show this level.   
Yeah, I think she played very good.  Her serve, her shots were there.  She barely missed.  So pretty good performance from her.   
 Q.  Do you have any second thoughts about your performance or you just met her on the wrong day?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I have zero regrets about my performance.  I think when you play with someone that has the power to disturb like this, to hit these kind of shots, and has a good day, I mean, it's difficult honestly.   
But I have zero regrets for me.   
 Q.  How much pressure does she put on you with her serve, just the power that she's throwing at you?  How much pressure do you feel on the other side of the net?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I was not feeling, like, a lot of pressure.  I think she has a great serve.  Not really.   
I think today she was playing, in general, very good, especially her serve.  I don't know, I guess it was her day.   
 Q.  Do you walk away from this feeling like it was a missed opportunity or she was too good, turn the page, next tournament?  What is your mentality as you sit there?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I'm pretty happy.  I mean, obviously it's difficult now because you are in quarterfinals.  When you have an opponent that is playing, you know, like this, sees the ball super big, finds the court everywhere, there's really nothing you can really do.   
I felt I did everything I could on the court, so I'm happy with that.   
 Q.  Overall how happy are you with your start to 2017, after some ups and downs last year?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I'm very happy.  I think it's a very good start of the year.  I trained hard to kind of start well.  You never know if it's going to happen or not.  So I'm pleased with the two tournaments I played.   
Even though I felt my body wasn't 100%, and I didn't know how far I was going to go here, but I think I went pretty far.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT