CHINA OPEN
October 1, 2016
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








G. MUGURUZA/I. Begu
2-6, 6-2, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Your forehand seemed to be letting you down in the first set, five unforced errors.  You only had four the rest of the match.  What changed?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I think I was just trying to do something different a little bit, trying to play short points, trying to concentrate more on my shots, not in general of the point and how to start the point, just my shots.  I was just trying to avoid stupid mistakes, just trying to go for the ball.
I don't know.  I just found something that make me turn around the match.
Q. Are you satisfied with your performance today?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yeah, I'm very satisfied.  The last time I played with her was not long ago this year.  It was a very, very tough match.  So I knew today I had to go out there, be calm, go for my shots, try to be super aggressive.
I'm pretty happy that I did it and obviously won.
Q. As the defending champion do you feel more pressure or is that inspiration or motivation?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I think it's very, very satisfying when you go to a tournament where you know you played well, you feel welcome.  But honestly, this was last year.  Nobody really is thinking about who won last year.  It's all about who is going to win this year, who is winning.
I'm not really thinking.  I'm just going for my match, just concentrating the next one.
Q. Right now you are in the race for the WTA Finals.  Is that a goal for you, to play your best match in Beijing?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yeah, definitely Singapore was a great motivation to try to find my spot.  Well, Beijing is one of the biggest tournaments we have, so for sure I have a great opportunity to, I don't know, do it well and qualify.
Q. Your coach seemed to have something really interesting to say.  You turned it around after he came out.  What did he say?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, he was saying just try to be calm, try to fight.  At the end this match was a very tough match.  Just somehow try to find your game, just try to fight, just be there and waiting for your opportunity.
Q. What are you going to work on before your next match?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Honestly, I don't even know who I'm playing now.  Honestly, it's going to be the same.  I don't really think about a lot of changes for the next match.  I'm going to do my game because I think that's the best chance for me to increase my chance for victory.
Q. We know this year the China Open did some more changes, like the LED screen.  What are your feelings about the facilities?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I think this tournament is huge.  The center court is so big, so, so, so big.  I saw the incredible screen behind us that looks like a TV, gigantic TV.  I like it with the lights, we go crazy.  It's a great atmosphere.  We have plenty of practice courts to practice.
Obviously it's one of the most important tournaments for us, and it's also combined with the men's tennis.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT