DONGFENG MOTOR WUHAN OPEN
September 27, 2016
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J. JANKOVIC/G. Muguruza
6-4, 7-6
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. What do you think let you down the most today?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I think today was a pretty strong match, like difficult.  I felt like I was in control of the match, but the last shot was not there.  I made maybe too many mistakes against Jankovic, the type of girl which is very solid.  You know, she's waiting for the other one to miss, kind of.
I felt like today, I don't know, too risky sometimes.  But I'm happy the way I felt.  I always like to have the match under control.  I think I felt that today, even if I lost.
So, well, I just want to keep playing like this because I know it's just a matter of time for me that ball that was out two meters is going to go in.
Q. On a night when you feel like you are making mistakes, like you said, do you tell yourself, I need to find Plan B?  What do you do?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I mean, the Plan B...  I think I'm a player that has a lot of ways to play, very aggressive, it's not only that I just bang the ball and it goes.  I think I'm a player that takes a lot of risks.
Sometimes I have to play with the errors kind of.  I have to really accept.  I miss the ball, doesn't matter, I go for the next one, even if I miss again.  That's the way I want to feel.  That's my plan.
Q. The intentions were much better than the US Open.  You have to forget the result for now and just build the base of your game.  That's going to be clicking at some point.  Is it easy to differentiate yourself from that's the reason, but that's the way I have to play to win bigger?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Obviously, everybody is thinking about the result.  Me also.  I'm the one that goes to play and wants to win.  In the end I know in the back of my mind there's a certain way I have to play and I got to follow this line.  Even though I'm going to lose a couple of matches, but I know eventually I'll get the few little things to connect and work.
Yeah, I agree with some.  I think it was a pretty good match.  I was always there, trying to go with my shots even if I miss or she was doing great shots.  It was just like (clapping hands successively).  I felt like I had a point, I was the one who missed it, kind of.
Q. And the Race to Singapore, here you are going to lose points.  Is it still in the back of your mind that you have to qualify for this?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yeah, obviously you know when you go to a tournament you know how you did last year.  But, I mean, I'm not really thinking a lot on that because I have the other tournament next week and the other one.
I think with the time, you'll think less about the points.  At the beginning when, you're 30-40, I lose...  But now you concentrate on other stuff.
Q. You were saying you were in control but the last shot you missed.  Do you think that was a lack of confidence or bad decision making or nerves or luck?  What do you think is the reason that you didn't have the last shot today?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, it's not only the last shot.  It's kind of when I had it, I kind of didn't make it at the end.  But, yeah, I would say a mix of being nervous.  I have the ball that I want, you feel this.  Sometimes it doesn't help.
But, yeah, little bit of confidence, nervous.  Just a mix, I guess.  I don't know (laughter).
Q. Your game, kind of accepting the risk, knowing that's how you need to play.  If you were to look at your game now and compare it to last year, do you think you're playing riskier knowing that the heights are higher, there's more to gain, or do you think you're playing the same way you played last year tactically?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I think I'm improving a lot of things.  Well, I think obviously tomorrow I'm not going to play serve and volley.  But I'm improving little by little.  It just takes time.  Sometimes I put it all together and I play fantastic.  Sometimes it's one little thing that is missing.
But, yeah, I think I'm improving, especially more knowledge.  For sure next year at this stage, I don't know, it's all about mentally also, not only forehand, backhand.
Q. Do you feel like you're playing now with more risk than you were?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: No.  I think I always play kind of the same.  I always go for the shot, even though I play to the fence sometimes.  I have to be the one.  Sometimes it looks beautiful and to the line, but sometimes it's out.
No, I would say the same.
Q. Is it hard for you to find consistency throughout the whole year?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I think that's the most difficult part.  Well, I would say it's hard for me.  I feel in general it's something that it's hard to get.
But, yeah, I would say for me it's difficult to always perform at the high level.  Like I said before, sometimes my shots and my risky goes not my way.
But, yeah, I'm working on that.  It's just to find the secret recipe to make it work.
Q. Do you think this consistency is something that sets and Angie apart from the rest of the chasing pack?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I think everybody has their own good stuff.  Maybe one is super consistency.  Maybe one can play better, I don't know, in a few tournaments.  Someone can be quarterfinals every tournament.  Someone only one.  Everybody has their own stuff.
I can't compare me with Angie.  It's another type of everything.
Q. Were you physically feeling fine today?  You looked like you were having an issue breathing.
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I was dead.  I was like (catching her breath).  The points were so long and so intense.
I think a combination.  When you're nervous and tense, it's also hard for me to breathe.  I've noticed it a little bit also in the US Open.  In couple tournaments I feel it's harder for me to breathe.
Q. You've had a lot of success in quite a short period of time.  You're still very young.  In your mind do you feel young or do you feel you're experienced?  How do you treat the periods you're in right now?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I feel I've been playing tennis forever because I started very young.  But I feel I have to take it easy.  I feel like me also, Garbine, you're 22.  Who was the last girl that won a Grand Slam at 22?  Relax, it's not the end of the world.  You don't need to win now everything.  I feel relaxed.
I need my time.  I have to be patient.  I don't have to do anything really.  I have to realize that and doesn't matter if I win here in Wuhan I lose or in Beijing.  Patience.  Because I feel like there is a lot of light on me.  I mean, relax (laughter).






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT