U.S. OPEN
August 31, 2016
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. SEVASTOVA/G. Muguruza
7-5, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You started coming back in the second set.  Did you feel like the match was starting to swing back into your favor?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I think it was a very tough match.  I think I didn't play well today.  I think she also played well.  Everything she was doing was kind of working.  Maybe at the last part of the match we could feel we can have a chance to come back, but, in fact, was like 50/50.
So at the end she played well, and that's it.
Q. What did you make of the conditions?  It seemed loud in the arena.
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yeah.  I felt a lot of noise, a lot of noise on the court.
Q. Did you ever experience that before this match?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Not that noisy.
Q. What was the main problem with your game today?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I think, first of all, I'm not playing my best level.  It's very rare also when you play your best.  I'm just trying to look, What else can I do, how to work more the match, how to find more resources.
I think today was just very difficult.  Everything I was trying to do she was coming back and doing incredible shots.  She was moving very well also.
Tough today.
Q. How nervous were you out there today?  Any more nervous than any other match when you take the court?  Was it a little bit more?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I think I'm always nervous, even if I play not on the center court.  No, I was nervous, I don't know, like other matches, but for sure playing against someone that is nervous, but is not the same.  Is different kind of nerves.
Like, Let's go out and play on center court and see if I win.  It's different feeling.  C'mon, you got to go for the match.  It's a little bit tricky sometimes.
Q. You played a lot of tennis, a lot of different tournaments this year.  That adds up.  She's someone who took two years off in the middle of her career and came back and had good success in her comeback.  Do you ever wish there was a way to slow down tennis and get more time to rest?  Do you think that can be helpful?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, not right now for me.  I think this is something personal.  When you're tired you say, Hey, I need to rest from tennis or something.  So far I always want to keep, like, playing and continue, I don't know, the tour.  Keep having chances to win matches and tournaments and everything.  I don't really want to stop right now for anything.
Q. Do you count this loss as part of the New York mojo?  It's not been a tournament you've been really able to get your hands around here.  Is it something that you see consistently year to year that is an issue for you at this tournament, or is it just bad luck or bad draws?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I don't know.  I try to give all.  I try to fight on court.  She was just better.  I don't know if it's bad luck.
No, I don't think so.  But, well, I did my best result again.  I'm just saying that.  (Smiling.)
Q. People have talked for quite a few years before you about how tough it is to follow up a Grand Slam.  Do you feel you're still at all in a French Open hangover of some sort, or is that not the case anymore?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: You know what?  I don't think about the French Open any second.  It's past.  Everybody's looking forward to the next one, the next tournament.  Of course you have in your mind it's a great achievement.  No matter what, it's a Grand Slam trophy.
I'm not thinking at all when I come here that I won the French Open.  This is new tournament.  I'm like, Let's see how far I can get.  Hopefully is like French Open.  But no.
Q. Anything you have decided to work on especially hard since this loss?  Anything you want to improve for the end of the season?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I mean, a lot of things.  Maybe to prepare a little bit more the matches.
I don't really know exactly.  I think hopefully have better days.  I don't know, just play perfect.  I don't know what to tell you, something specific.
Q. Here there is almost a constant buzz, noise.  Did that interfere with the play of tennis?  Could you comment about the sound?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I didn't feel silence at any moment.  It was continuously a noise.  I think it's very big, this stadium, also.  It's kind of echo.  It's just like continuously.  But it's the same for the other player, you know.
But, yeah, I felt like this is -- when I was serving I was like, It's not quiet.  People are like -- it's okay.  It's just like that.
Q. Since Paris it's been non-stop tennis.  Even before Paris, Madrid, Rome.  Are you looking forward to being able to get back to Europe and also take a little bit of a time out before the Asian swing begins?  How long do you think you'll have before you can reset?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yeah, for sure I will rest a little bit, but I think the best is just to keep playing.  I mean, I'd rather keep playing and have more chances in other tournaments than taking a long break.
Even though today is not my favorite match, this is not going to stop me of resting some days and going back in Asia and trying to do like last year.
Q. When you talk about preparing for matches more, in terms of preparing for opponents more, doing more scouting, or physical preparation?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I think a little bit of everything.  I mean, I don't know really exactly what is.  But, I don't know, maybe being less nervous.  Sometimes when you go into the match you want it so badly.  I think sometimes is tricky.  It makes you a little bit like tense and nervous.
I guess it's normal.
Q. Petra earlier today was saying she genuinely has no idea how she's going to play on any given day, no matter what her level is.  Is that something that you relate to at all or is that foreign to you?  You kind of know when you're in a good way?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Oh, I think I know way before how I feel.  You can have a couple of games where you play bad or very good.  I think I'm a type of player that days before I know how I feel, if I'm playing good, if I'm playing bad.  This is not like lottery here.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT