WIMBLEDON
June 30, 2016
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. CEPELOVA/G. Muguruza
  6‑3, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

Q. When did you sense you might be in some trouble? When were things not working for you?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I think my energy was missing a little bit today. From yesterday I felt already a little bit, you know, like, tired, I think is the best word. 
And today during the match, and after the match, I'm like, It's a tough day today. I feel empty a little bit, and I start to be sick. But I think it was a little bit of combination. 
I think she played great, with no fear. She was trying a lot of stuff that was working. My energy was not really there. I was trying, but didn't work at all. 

Q. How tough is it to be the player being chased rather than the player trying to pull off the upsets?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I think it's part of being at the top level. I would not change that. I know every time I step on the court, well, they want to beat me so much. They all kind of loose because they don't have nothing to lose. 
But I like that. It makes me in a good situation. Hopefully I can keep it like this.

Q. Was there a particular reason why you felt empty today? Did you feel like that coming into the tournament, or just today in particular?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, a little bit also to start after playing French Open, after trying Mallorca, which was too early to start, then practicing hard to come here. I think was a little bit too much maybe. 
I think at some point my energy was going down. So I guess today was the day where I felt it right away. I just have to recover a little bit and, you know, get my energy back, then be good again. 

Q. Do you think the expectation that's been put upon your shoulders, having won the French, coming here as No. 2, has that added a bit more pressure to you?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: No, not pressure. I think for sure more expectations from other people. But honestly, for me, I just had very clear it was going to be a rough tournament for me after winning a Grand Slam and coming here. Everybody, you know, like, looking at me. 
Not really. I know all the matches are very tough. Nothing is going to happen if I lose today. It's normal. It's part of the game. Hopefully I lose less matches. But there is not any drama, so... 

Q. What were you most surprised about today regarding your own performance?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I was surprised‑‑ well, not really surprised. I felt this before, when you are practicing hard, playing, playing, playing, one day suddenly your energy goes down. I'm not surprised. 
Obviously, you always try to avoid these kind of moments where you're going, I need a day to recover. 
Well, I had to play today. I went to the court. I didn't find it. But at least I was there looking for a chance. 

Q. What do you think you might learn from today?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, what I'm going to learn? I'm going to learn that you really need to concentrate on how to recover, and don't reach a moment where your energy is too low, especially to play a Grand Slam, and to face opponents that, hey, they're good, they're here, they want to beat you so much. You got to be ready. You cannot go out there not at your best. 

Q. You said after the French Open, it was amazing to think that Nadal had won nine of them. Now that you've won that and come here, how difficult does it feel to have to recover and get back to optimum level so fast?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: It is very difficult. You know, I'm just experience a lot of things so fast. It's my first time after doing a great result, coming to another Grand Slam. So I'm trying to discover how I'm going to feel, how do I have to go on court, how do I have to rest more. 
I think it's great. Now I'm touching more a little bit all these great players, you know, that they're amazing, that they're winning a lot of Grand Slams. But, hey, that's what it takes, so I got to be ready. 

Q. Would you change your preparation between the French Open and Wimbledon in any way next year? Do you think you might change something to make it easier for you not to get so tired?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I think I will have to rest more, not, you know, keep practicing the same hard to prepare another Grand Slam because it's very fast. I think I will have to take more careful those days where you have to rest. 
Even though you want to play, I don't want to miss a day, but sometimes it's better to rest because it's going to make you play better. You don't think, like, practicing 10 hours a day is going to make you play better after you don't have energy. 

Q. Having come from the highs of the experience of Paris to the low of what has happened today, that must be quite an emotional journey you've been on. How can you cope with that journey?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: It's hard. It's interesting. I've been through a lot of stages, and it's only half of the year. I'm just dealing with it, honestly. I think it's hard. I'm doing my way, trying to prepare every match, trying to be focused every practice. One day it's going to go my way, another day no. Hopefully my consistency will improve and I'll be able to be deep in all the tournaments. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT