ROLAND GARROS
June 3, 2016
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








G. MUGURUZA/S. Stosur
6-2, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. When you look back to Wimbledon last year, what did you learn from that from playing Serena?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, it's not only that match.  I played her like five or four times already.
Well, about Serena, very powerful game, obviously.  Very dominating type of game.
I don't really know what to say.  Very dominating.
Q. I didn't mean just playing against her, but in that setting in a final.
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, like I said in Wimbledon before, I think finals, you know, the last match has to be the toughest match, obviously.
I think the two best players for the tournament are there, so being in the final and playing against top seed, I think it's just a final.  That's it.
Q. How have you been able to manage your emotions throughout the two weeks in Paris?  How does it feel now being on the brink of yet another final?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I have learned a lot how to control my emotions inside the court and outside the court.  I think it's very important, because sometimes it's not too good to show them or not controlling them.
So, like, in a tournament like this you have to be very focused.  It's very long.  Even longer with this kind of weather that you have to wait a lot.
Yeah, here I'm learning.  Here just I'm putting everything into that and it's going well.
Q. Have you done anything differently during this Grand Slam, do you think, compared to previous Grand Slams in terms of how you've managed the time between matches or things on the court, as well?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Honestly, I don't think I do anything different.  I think in almost all the tournaments.  Here it's just because it's longer.
Not really.  I think I just know a little bit more what to do, what to choose, because I have learned from more experience.  But honestly, I don't think I'm doing anything different.
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Spanish.
Q. Can you tell us what you're thinking about?  I think it's the first time you've reached the finals at Roland Garros.
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, first I'm very happy.  This was a bit difficult to play because I wanted to win so much against Samantha.  She's such a great tennis player.
I succeeded finally, so it's a dream come true.  I really feel good.
Q. I think that it's been almost a year last time you played at Wimbledon.  I know it's a different surface.  It's a different place.  But still, it's finals.  So what would you say about this match to come, the finals in Paris?  What is the main difference between a finals at Wimbledon and another one here in Paris?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I wouldn't say I'm looking at things this way.  What I will do is I will try and focus on this player, and then I'll try and do my best to win.
You know, the fact that she played three days in a row or not is not something that is important to me.  What I will have to focus on is what I must do.  Not the other things, which you cannot control.
Q. I have two questions.  The first one is do you think that the best opponent for a final is Serena, which is what you said last time for Wimbledon?  And my second question is that we remember that you had flowing emotions in Wimbledon, but still you're missing one of the Grand Slams.
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I have gained a lot of experience very quickly, so this is what I have to analyze.  I have to learn from that.
I should say, Okay, these are the shots that I'm good at.  This is where I should learn.
I think today Stosur played really well.  She returned my serves really well, so I was a bit tense.
What was your second question again?  Oh, yeah.
I think that, you know, finals have to be played by the best players, and the best player is Serena, which is a good thing.  It's a good thing.
But it could be Serena; it could be another player.  There is not much difference for me, I think.
Q. I have two questions to ask about Serena.  No. 1, I know you don't want to talk too much about Wimbledon, but do you remember this match that you played against her here in Paris two years ago?  You won I think 6-2, 6-2.  Not against Serena, but against another player you won 6-2, 6-2.  Do you remember this match?  And the second question is, do you think that Serena would be perhaps lower than usual for the finals?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: It's not that I don't want to talk about Wimbledon.  You know, I'll have nothing to lose, so I will try and win against the best tennis player in the world.  That's all.  I'll try and control my emotions, and I hope I can win this title.  Why not?
Q. (Off microphone.)
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I have not even seen her play.
Q. Mouratoglou has just told me that tomorrow's match is either in your hands or in the hands of Serena.  Would you say that the match is in your hands?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I think that she and I are players who like dictating the game.  We like dominating the game.  If the coaches say that the victory is in the hands of Serena, okay.  He's allowed to say that.  But.
I think I'm going to fight for each point.  There will be moments when she'll be dominating, and maybe at times I will be dominating.
I think I can be a tough opponent, too.
Q. Last November you were saying that in 2015 you could win.  I suppose that in 2016 you must win.
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I don't think I must win, but what I will try and do is forget about all that is around the match and therefore focus on this upcoming match, which is what I have been doing for two weeks.
It's true that Garbiñe has changed.  Garbiñe has changed quickly.  And that's fantastic for me.
Q. You were saying that at Wimbledon you remember a number of shots that were not really good.  Could you tell us more about this?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, you know, it was a first final.  The opponent was tough to beat.  I was tense.  It was difficult for me to manage stress.  The surface was of course totally different.  It's on grass.
I remember three points that I missed and she took advantage of this, but otherwise I wouldn't say I made a very big mistake.
Q. Well, one of these days you're going to win a Grand Slam, but would you like to win a Grand Slam before Serena, before she retires?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, yes, of course, and tomorrow that's an opportunity.  Of course I'd like to do that.
I think that all of us want to win a Grand Slam irrespective of who the other player is.  Of course if this player is a champion it's even more enjoyable.
For example, if it were men's tennis against Federer, this would be a lot of pleasure for the other player.
Q. Last year during the finals in Wimbledon the crowd was supporting you.  What about this year in Paris?  Do you think that the crowd will be cheering for you?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I don't know at all.  At Wimbledon this gave me confident and support.  People were saying we'd like to have new faces.  We'd like to have new blood.
I don't really know the French audience, the French crowd, but I know they really love Serena, so we will see.  Some will be for her and some will be supporting me, I hope.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT