ROLAND GARROS
May 20, 2016
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. How do you feel when you come back at Roland Garros?  We remember that in your 2014 you hit the ground and you beat easily Serena Williams.
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yes, I remember.  It's always great to be back here.  French Open is the tournament for Spanish people.  I think it's a traditional, and we are all very excited.  Especially me.  I think clay is very special, also.
It's the end of the clay court season, so, you know, happy to be in a Grand Slam.
Q. What do you feel just before Roland Garros?  What do you do, your preparation?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I think the key is to do everything you can to train as maximum practice and be, you know, ready for your first match and start the tournament, you know, well prepared.  I think there is no secrets.
Kind of like every tournament, but here you kind of want to make it even better.
Q. Does it help to come back to a tournament where you have good memories, or does it just not matter at all to you?  Is it every tournament is different and stands on its own?  How does that impact Roland Garros?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, for sure, it's better to come back to a tournament where you have great memories and results.  It's so bad to go to a tournament where you can't play.  There are some of them where, okay, it's impossible here.
Here at Roland Garros, like I said before, it's special for Spanish people.  I think for everyone, but Roland Garros in Spain is like everything.
So, for sure it's great.  I don't know.  It's like a second home here.
Q. During your matches, does that enter your mind at all, you know, the fact that you have done great things here and in other places and maybe you can do it again?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I think that's like experience.  For sure when you have that kind of matches and memories on your back, it is always helpful when you come back here and you're nervous or you're like excited.  It's always helpful to know that you do this and it's going to help for that.
I think it's experience.
Q. Can you treat this tournament as a regular tournament, or is it important for you to treat it like a Grand Slam in order to play your best?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I think this is a very important tournament.  I can't treat it like other tournament because it's -- first of all, it's a Grand Slam.  Second one is it's a very important Grand Slam for us in clay court.
So it's very difficult to think like it's another tournament.
Q. You grew up when Arantxa Sanchez ruled on Roland Garros.  Is she the player that inspired you the most?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, with Arantxa, the problem was that I was very young.  I didn't watch her.  I watch her after, when I was, you know, more into the tennis.  But when I was that young I was not even watching tennis, so I didn't catch her.
But I catch more Rafa when I was younger and like looking at him here, you know, every year winning.  Like no way.  He did it again and he did it and he did it.  So I think he inspired more me.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT