ROGERS CUP
July 26, 2016
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
An interview with:   
GARBINE MUGURUZA   
THE MODERATOR: Unfortunately, Gaby has had to withdraw with a gastrointestinal illness today.  We'll take a few questions.   
 Q.  How did you get sick?  How bad is it?  How does this affect you moving forward?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I kind of started feeling yesterday.  Even though yesterday I couldn't play because of the rain, I kind of didn't feel well.  Went to the gym.  I really didn't do the whole workout in the gym.   
Well, like, call the doctor and everything.  I don't feel well.  I tried to take everything, do it right.  But today I went to the court to warm up, but I didn't really feel, like, hundred percent.  At the last moment of the match, I start to warm up again.  I'm like, Okay, no, no, I don't feel to go on the court and give my best.   
 Q.  You got here pretty early to train in Montréal.  How frustrating is it to kind of prepare well for the tournament and then have to pull out?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, it's frustrating because I never really get to play the first tournament of this season always.  Well, I guess I'll try to come back next time and be on better shape and everything.   
But it is frustrating, for sure.   
 Q.  Is it something that you think is going to affect you in the next week or so?  Is it something that you've had before?  Are you confident that you can recover quickly?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I had a lot of times.  You know, you're sick of the stomach and everything with all that we eat, different style of food, everything.   
I don't know.  I have now, like, two weeks until my next tournament, so I hopefully recover obviously.  But we'll see, yeah.   
 Q.  Is the plan now to go back to Spain and try and recuperate, then go to Rio, or go to Rio from here?  What are your plans?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I really don't know right now.  I'll probably stay around maybe because I want to have doctors close to me, not really move a lot.   
But I'm not going to Europe, for sure.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT