ROLAND GARROS
June 4, 2016
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
G. MUGURUZA/S. Williams   
7-5, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  How many questions have you already answered that you haven't thought about answering?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Questions, you mean?   
 Q.  Yes.  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Honestly, no.  I'm pretty shocked still.  Pretty excited about what just happened.  I think I've got to take my time and enjoy, because with tennis players it goes so fast.   
You have to right away think about another tournament.  I want to enjoy.  I'm not thinking about any questions yet.   
 Q.  When you had those four match points and then you had to serve for it, what was going through your mind?  You looked so composed.  I guess inside it wasn't that easy.  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yeah, it was very difficult to see you have four match points and doesn't go your way.  But it's a final.  There's no room for being disappointed or for excuses, Oh, I had four match points.   
I still had another chance serving, and even after.  I just tried to be calm even though inside, I was like, Oh, there's no way.  Then, yeah, I managed to be calm and just think about what I have to do every point, you know, and don't think about match point or championship point.   
 Q.  Can you try and describe your feelings on the match point that you did win, that lob?  Took you a second to realize you won.  Can you tell us what went through your mind?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: It was really weird.  Serena was in front of the ball so I didn't know if it was in or out.  I looked at the chair umpire and chair umpire doesn't want to say anything.  Line judge doesn't want to say anything.   
I was like, Did I win Roland Garros?  What happened?  When he said, Game, set, and match, I was like, No way.  I won.  It was like amazing.   
 Q.  I saw you got a tweet from Rafa.  When you watched him winning all those titles did you think that one day it would be you?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: You know what I thought?  Like how can he win nine times?  Right away I'm like, That's impossible to do it again.  (Smiling.)   
But, you know, reading that tweet about Rafa, it's great for us.  For Spanish people this is the tournament.  When you're a kid and you practice on clay you always, Oh, I wish I could win Roland Garros.   
Today is a great day.   
 Q.  Congratulations.  This is the first clay title for you, which is Roland Garros.  How do you explain about that?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, for sure not bad.  The previous years here I felt good in French Open playing.  I reached two times quarterfinals, so I was there.   
But, I mean, to start the clay season with this title, for sure it's impossible to be better.   
 Q.  How could you not cry?  I mean, is this something -- is this something you learn, to be so cold that you have to be to win a Grand Slam like that?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: No.  I was crying, but I was like, -- I was putting my tears away.  I was crying.  But I'm like, No way.  No way I won.   
I did cry.  (Smiling.)  But I have to say I was trying to be composed.  As I started the tournament my objective was to not very emotional and to go every match.  Doesn't matter which round it was, but to be calm.   
I didn't know what to do, honestly.  To jump, to go to the floor.  At the moment, I'm like heart attack almost.   
 Q.  Did you surprise yourself at all of how you handled the final?  Because of course the final is different than the rest of the tournament.  You seemed really composed going for your shots and everything.  Did you surprise yourself with how you did that?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, every match I played until I reached the final I was a little bit improving.  You know, today was just that challenge.  You got to face the best player in the final.  You know you've got to perform well.  Your chances of winning playing bad are very low.   
I knew, Come on, Garbiñe.  This is your chance again.  Go for it.  Just go for it.  And breathe.  I did it kind of.  (Smiling.)   
 Q.  With the tough start to this year that you had, when did you think that winning this year's French Open could be even possible?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I had it in mind.  It's no that I can't imagine, you know, because I reached good rounds.  I believe I can do it.  Just didn't go my way at the beginning of the year.   
But that doesn't mean that it's not going to go after.  So I have been practicing and working hard.  I knew eventually I will start to feel better, so that's the way of tennis.   
It's so long.  One tournament you win; the next one you lose in first round.  So it's hard.   
 Q.  You obviously beat Serena at this tournament, but you also played her in a Grand Slam final in the last year, which is a different occasion.  What did you learn from that first final and were you able to draw on that or use that in this match today?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yeah, for sure.  But not only that match, all the matches I played against her.  I felt I had a lot of opportunities against her, and I just thought in Wimbledon I was very nervous.  I couldn't really control that.  I can't think about, Oh, I wish I could be less nervous, but that's hard to say.   
I just put that aside today.  I was like, Come on.  Let's go for it.  Forget about the nerves, even though it's hard...   
So, yeah.  I just had a little different mindset today.   
 Q.  Congratulations.  You have become the 11th player from Spain to win a Grand Slam.  So when you think about, like, do you think your victory will serve as an inspiration for people in Venezuela even though identify yourself as a Spaniard?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I hope so.  That's the best when you inspire people, when people tell you, Oh, I wish I could play like you and to be like that.  I think that's great to hear, especially on kids.  They are so excited it's like, Oh, so cool.   
So, yeah, I hope so.  Venezuela, I always have it in my heart even though there is a Spanish flag under my name.  I have a lot of support from there similar to Spanish, which is amazing.   
I not only play for Spain.  I play for both.   
 Q.  To go on a run of seven straight Grand Slam wins in a major is an incredible feat.  What was the one quality that brought you through the tournament this year, do you think?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I have been saying during the whole week to be more -- less emotional.  To believe more that I'm here because I deserve my place here.  I earned it.  You know, I played well.  I earned to be here in the final.   
I think just to don't think about other stuff.  Just give it all in the court and doesn't matter who's in front, which round it is.  Just to control the emotions I think is the key sometimes, especially in a Grand Slam where you're very nervous and excited.   
 Q.  Congratulations.  The comment about your coach, Sam Sumyk, which advices he gave you, in particular?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I always say that Sam is a great professional because he has been in the top level, and that's not easy to find on people, because not all the people reach top level.   
But I think experience.  I think it's the voice of experience telling me sometimes, Hey, I think this is better.  Been there; I felt it.  Well, he's not have been there, but with the team and with their players.   
It's great to hear something that is real, because it has, you know, reasons behind that.  I'm like, Oh, great.  I'll try to do it.   
So experience.   
 Q.  It seems like the crowd likes you here.  Do you think it's because your coach is French or...  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Oh, no.  I wish that's not the reason.  (Smiling.)   
Well, for sure.  But honestly I don't know.  I felt during the whole week -- two weeks -- a lot of support.  I just think maybe they want a Spanish woman to win the tournament.   
They are like, Come on.  Always Nadal.  How about a Spanish woman?  I'm very surprised with the crowd, yeah.   
 Q.  How well do you think that you played today?  Do you think you played lights out, best that you could have possibly played?  Do you feel like you were a level below you would consider your best?  How would you rate how well you played today?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I think I played well considering the circumstances.  It was difficult to get into the match, because we are very powerful players, so it was very hard to have a point with three shots.  It was all about the serve, return, first two groundstrokes.   
I think I played very well.  I think I could serve better.  But, yeah, for sure I'm pretty happy with my performance, yeah.   
 Q.  You were already No. 3 in the world in October last year.  How come you only won two tournaments in your life?  How do you explain that?  That's difficult for us to understand, especially today.  And then also, what do you think was the technical key to win today?  Until today we have talked about emotions.  Could it be Serena wasn't serving too well and you were returning pretty well and you were taking initiative?  That could be the key, or not?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, the first question, I think the important tournaments are the ones you've got to play well, the ones that really count, the ones that really take you to the top level.   
At the end I was like -- last year I'm like, Well, I did a final in Grand Slam; I won that tournament.  But they're important, so that means a lot of points and a lot of to the top level, I guess.   
And the key?  I just have a very aggressive game.  I go for my shots with no regrets,^  even if I play to the fans.  I don't think I did nothing special today.  Just, you know, a lot of confidence.  Just a lot of -- like how can I explain?  Like attack mindset, you know, to her.  That worked.   
 Q.  Do you think watching Kerber winning against Serena in Melbourne has given you a bit more belief for this final?  Was it in your mind, Okay, she did it?  Maybe that means the opening can be for me, too?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yeah, I thought about it.  I thought about it yesterday.  I'm like, Come on.  This is -- Come on.  You can do it.   
When you see people that are winning and there's new faces, makes you think like, I can be one of those faces.  I can be the one who -- Hey, if Kerber can I can, or whoever is there.   
Yeah, for sure, it helps to see new faces.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Spanish.   
 Q.  Please tell us what you feel.  Is it heavy?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yes, it's heavy.  But this one is not the one I'm going to take back home.  I'll have a smaller one.  But it's incredible.  Fantastic.  I'm very happy.   
My name will be on this cup.  Yeah, I'm part of tennis history in a way.   
 Q.  Was there a moment when you felt you could win against Serena?  Actually, now you have won the victory.  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, what's very important is to believe that you can win, and then as you play and keep on playing, then you realize that you can do it.  You can play your best tennis during important tournaments.   
 Q.  What did you feel during the last game when the chair umpire said, Game, set, match?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, there was a moment when nobody knew and would say that I had won the match.  People are asking me what I feel, but it's several things that I'm feeling.  It's a dream come true.  It's a tournament that I've always wanted to win.  It's done now.  I've done it.  It's on my list.   
 Q.  People are talking about your ambition and the fact that you like competition.  Can you tell us more about this, how you intend to compete and how this has helped you in Paris?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I think I'm ambitious.  I think I have a strong character and I like competition.  I like to compete.  I like to play against the best players.  This is a source of motivation for me.   
I'm very happy, because today I proved to myself that I can play really well, that I can manage my stress and win against one of the best players in the world.   
 Q.  There were very important moments, for instance, the match points, 15-40, and you were serving for the set.  Which is the moment when you felt was the best moment for you, you were stronger, or that was a turnaround point?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, you know, Serena is never going to give you the impression that you dominate the match.  She's very powerful.  Her serve is very impressive.  She can win games very quickly.  I wouldn't say there is one point that was more important than any of the other ones.   
It's true that after winning the first set I managed to calm down a little.  I thought I got off to a good start.  I wouldn't say that there was any specific moment that was a turnaround type of moment.   
 Q.  Was there something in your tennis that you wanted to improve?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, a bit of everything, I'd say.  Frankly, I have to improve many things in my tennis.  That's what I'm working on.  I could have served better, for instance, today.  I wasn't feeling that comfortable when I was serving.   
And by the way, that's the only shot that you can really totally control.  So I have to work on my serves, but there were other aspects, as well.   
 Q.  Congratulations.  You're a champion.  You have won Roland Garros.  You are a Grand Slam champion.  Would you say it's okay?  You're satisfied?  It's done?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: No.  Well, of course I'm very happy, but I'd like to have more.  My dream is to continue and win more tournaments, similar tournaments, and to dominate.   
When I am on the court I want to dictate my game and bring more of these cups back home.   
 Q.  Who would you like to mention for this win?  Who would you like to talk about?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I don't know.  I'd like to say thank you to the people who are close to me.  It's a small circle of people, a small group of people.  I'd like to thank my family.  They have made so many sacrifices for us.  You know, for me, my parents have had to travel a lot.  They had to make many sacrifices.   
My family was here with my brothers, and that's a very important moment.   
 Q.  You said that this was an important moment or tournament for Spain and Venezuela.  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yes, of course.  I think I have equal support from Venezuela as well as Spain.  I talked more about Spain because clay is more of a Spanish tradition.  Everybody knows that.  All children start playing on clay.   
 Q.  (Off microphone.)  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I think that it was a major win and a great victory, as well, for Venezuela.  I think that sports in general and tennis should be practiced more and more in Venezuela.  I would like to have more children playing tennis.   
 Q.  Congratulations.  You were talking in English about new faces or perhaps new blood.  On the Grand Slams you were talking about Kerber, and you mentioned others, as well, like Flavia.  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yeah, for a long period of time we had the same players, like Serena.  They were always in all of the Grand Slams.   
And I think it's incredible to see new faces and that the players know now that it's possible to win, to defeat Serena.  It's like breathing new or fresh air.   
 Q.  You said, Okay, that's done.  You've ticked that on your list.  That's Roland Garros.  What is it that's left on your list?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, there are many tournaments.  Of course the Grand Slams, for instance.  I almost won at Wimbledon.  I remember this final.  I hope I'll have another final, to win another Grand Slam final, and not to let it slip away.   
 Q.  (Off microphone.)  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yes, of course, No. 1.  Everybody's dreaming about being No. 1.  All the players want to be the No. 1 player.  I'm not thinking this way, you see.  I decided to keep my focus and win matches and tournaments.   
But of course I would be very happy to be No. 1.   
 Q.  Congrats.  Now, I suppose it will take you a little while to celebrate this victory, but maybe you've started thinking about perhaps a number of things you'd like to do.  The wins that are coming to mind.  What does also this victory mean for tennis, Spanish tennis?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: No, I don't know.  I don't know what I'm going to do.  I think that in any case it's great.  Men's tennis is a sport where the level is high.  This win is like a new pulse given to women's tennis, I think.   
 Q.  Let's talk about the match.  Mouratoglou was saying that the match was in the hands of Serena, and I think he was wrong.  You've shown that it's the contrary.  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yeah, that's true.  I heard this comment before.  That's true.   
Well, that's his job.  You know, he's Serena's coach.  But, you know, I don't pay attention to this.  I don't agree with that.   
My tennis was dominating today, and we've seen the evidence of this.   
 Q.  Your name will now be on the cup.  What's the name close to which you'd like your name to appear today?  Which is the other name you'd like to be close to?  Is it Conchita?  Is it Serena?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, almost all of them.  Being close to Serena's name, of course, because she's won so many Grand Slams.  She's part of history.   
There is Steffi Graf, as well.  How many wins she's had here in Grand Slams.   
Almost all of the names I can see on the cup today.  All of the names.  All of them.  It's so great to have mine here, as well.   
 Q.  I'd like to say a few words about women's tennis and women's sports, in general.  After Roland Garros I suppose you're going to play on grass in Mallorca.  I think it's important for women now, women tennis players, to have a champion.  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yeah, I'm very happy to go and play on grass in Spain.  It's going to be a bit special.   
But I think it's fantastic if I can play, as well, on grass in Spain.  People will come to see us play.  I don't have much time left, but I'll be going to Spain after this win.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT