ROLAND GARROS
June 1, 2016
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
G. MUGURUZA/S. Rogers   
7-5, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  How do you feel like your first semifinal here in Roland Garros?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I feel great.  Previous years, you know, I end the tournament in quarterfinals.  This year I really wanted to, you know, go through.  I think it's great.   
I keep my chances in the tournament, and it's a big tournament for us, especially for Spanish people.   
 Q.  Talking about the conditions, do you think it's good for your game?  Courts are slow, balls are heavy.  Or you don't like it?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I think the players like to play with sunny days and warm weather, but it is what it is.  I can't change the condition.  I have to adapt.  That's the only thing I can do, get ready as much as I can to, what I have that day, put it on the court.   
So I know it's not the best day, but I just did what I, you know, what I could.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Spanish.   
 Q.  At the start of the match I was under the impression that she was dictating play in the first set.  Do you think that she was in distress and that's why you managed to win seven games in a row?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: She played well.  She went for her shots.  I didn't know this opponent very well.  Most of the time you're familiar with your opponents, but I didn't know her, as I told you.   
Gradually I felt her better on court.  In the first set I calmed down and I said to myself, Let's dictate play.  That's what I did.   
 Q.  There are lots of people who think you are a favorite now.  What do you think of that?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I don't think so.  I don't put myself in that position.  It's match after match.  I mean, some seeded players were defeated, but there are lots of players who are doing well.   
So I don't think about it.  I just want to focus on my game match after match.  In a semifinal, I mean, you can be defeated very quickly.   
 Q.  Last year when you played against Serena you said that you were alone, on your own with the media.  What do you think of that?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Of course I try to isolate myself, because you have to answer lots of questions during the interviews.  I want to remain in my bubble.  I want to be focused on the tournament.  I don't want to look at the draw too much.   
 Q.  Stosur has just won her match.  What do you think of her as an opponent?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I don't think I have played against her.  Maybe.  Maybe.  I know that she reached the final at the French Open.  She plays well.  It will be a tough match.   
In a semifinal match, all matches are tough.  Lots of players are under stress and they want to reach the final, so I will focus on my tennis and I will give my best.   
 Q.  You said that you were in your own bubble.  Apart from that, when you have to wait in the locker room when it's raining, what do you think about?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: We have a lot of spare time when weather conditions are bad.  But my family is with me, so we play cards, we listen to some music with my brother.  We watch TV.  We play games with friends.   
So I try to not think too much about the match.   
 Q.  You already reached the semifinal of a Grand Slam so you know what need to do in order to win.  Is it important for you to have experienced this situation, reaching a semifinal in a Grand Slam?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: It's very difficult to maintain your peace of mind when you reach the semifinal of a Grand Slam.  You have to do away with the secondary thoughts.  I need to concentrate on my game; I need to be well-prepared.  When I get up in the morning, I need to focus my game until I step on court.  This is what I will be doing.   
 Q.  So you have made a good run in this tournament.  Are you afraid of the opponents?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I respect all the players, and especially all the players who have made deep runs in the tournament.  I respect them.  I'm not frightened.  I'm not scared.  I'm business, of course, but I wish I could reach a final.  Why not?   
 Q.  What do you need to improve in your tennis for your next match?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: What can I improve?  That's a good question.  I need to dictate play from the very beginning of the match.  I know that my opponent started in full swing; I shouldn't wait for my opponent to dictate play.   
 Q.  You are not superstitious, but there might be strange things around.  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Nothing.  These are silly comments.  Superstition?  Superstition?  Nothing of the kind.  Maybe my brother, he wears the same T-shirt.   
 Q.  What are your feelings?  Since Wimbledon you have said that you wanted to go deep in the tournament.  What do you think of this year versus last year?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I'm calmer.  There is always a little bit of stress.  I have already experienced that situation at Wimbledon, so you see things differently and you know what you have to do, what you should avoid doing.   
It's better to have lived this experience.   
 Q.  With this result, these two weeks in Paris, I mean, it's like a quantum leap.  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: If you play a lot of matches you are more confident, but things don't come out of the blue.  Since the start of the year I have been practicing hard, though, with some ups and downs.  Even though I didn't notch up nice victories, I know that training and practice have paid off.   
 Q.  With the rain delay your opponent tomorrow has played yesterday.  Is it an advantage or not?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I haven't thought about it.  I could have experienced that situation.  You can't do anything with rain.   
But if I'm not mistaken, there will be a roof very shortly, so I don't know what to tell you.  I could have faced that situation.  To a certain extent I could have been in a better position.  But let's see what's going to happen.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT