ROLAND GARROS
May 25, 2016
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
G. MUGURUZA/M. Georges   
6-2, 6-0   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Spanish.   
 Q.  Could you tell us about your feelings during the match?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: It was not an easy match, especially playing a French player at home.  I did not know her at all, and throughout the match I had to really build my strategy to beat her.   
It wasn't easy, and at the same time I think she was a little nervous.  I guess I was nervous a little, too, but it helped me.   
 Q.  How do you like to play on Chatrier?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: You know, I have always enjoyed courts where there is a crowd, and especially when the crowd participates, supports the players.  It feels like I'm myself part of it, and it makes me play at my very best.   
 Q.  This is the second round.  Azarenka is out.  Kerber is out.  You're still around.  How far do you think you can make it in the tournament?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, it's interesting, because when you look at the recent tournaments, things have been very erratic and unpredictable.  The players, as you mentioned, have had some tough matches.   
I don't think it's like the men where when you play Djokovic you know you're going to lose.  It's not the same thing in women's singles at all.   
 Q.  You like large courts.  Do you sometimes feel nervous because you're playing on big courts and that's more and more the case?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, I think that's the case for most players.  I think the first rounds are the toughest ones.  You have to be very motivated.  You really have to play at your very best and give what you have, the best in store.   
 Q.  Have you noticed the public was supportive, even if obviously they were supporting the French, your French opponent?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I felt very well.  Obviously when you play in Madrid, it's quite different because the public fully supports me.  But I remember two years ago I played a French opponent, and there was an Hola.  People were screaming for five minutes and cheering me up.   
I think the public today was good.  They were very quiet, but they applauded at the end.   
 Q.  Are you in favor or against the Hawk-Eye?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I know a lot of players don't like it.  I think we could use it.  It's unfortunate that it's not used in all tournaments.  I'm in favor of it.  I guess on clay it's not that necessary, but it could be helpful.   
 Q.  Toni Nadal the other day said that Nadal was going to play the Olympics.  You said you wanted to play double mixed.  Is that something you've discussed with him?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I would love to play, you know, all three disciplines at the Olympics, but Conchita will decide.  I'm open, and I will do whatever I'm told.   
 Q.  (off microphone.)  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: She asked us what we had in mind, what we wanted to do.  Of course, she needed our views, and then she's going to make the ultimate decisions regarding teams.   
 Q.  Have you been following the news in Venezuela?  If yes, what do you think about it?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Oh, I know the news.  I have been following what's going on.  It's a tough question, however.  The situation in Venezuela is very difficult.  The recent news has been bad news.  It's not good.  Unfortunately, all I can do is, you know, keep an eye on the news.  Right now all they are doing is pointing fingers at each other.   
Honestly, I think it's a very difficult situation.   
 Q.  Your brother is there, right?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Yes, my brother, my parents.   
 Q.  With the support of your family, are you doing better?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Yes.  It is.  When I travel, I prefer to travel with my professional team.  However, for some tournaments I like to have my relatives.   
I know if I tell my dad I'm going to China, he won't come.  But from time to time he likes to be there for tournaments.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT