ROLAND GARROS
May 23, 2016
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
G. MUGURUZA/A. Schmiedlova   
3-6, 6-3, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  Obviously tough conditions out there.  It was a tough first round.  Can you talk us through it and how it went for you?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, it was tough already from yesterday, because I came very early and didn't play at the end, so I had to be all the day, you know, here.   
Well, today we didn't have time to warm up, only the 10 minutes, which is kind of weird.  But, yeah, it was so cold.  Even though I was running and playing, I felt like cold.  I thought it was going to rain.  I was looking to the sky, I'm like, Oh, please, you know.   
But, well, the same as for the other girl, so it was difficult day.   
 Q.  When you say you only had 10 minutes to warm up, how much notice did you get before you were due to go on court?  How do you cope with that?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, I actually -- I think I had the music on or something.  I didn't really listen when someone talks, you know, I don't know, with the speaker.  The supervisor came, and they're like, We're waiting for you.  I'm like, No way.  I start to do running and jumping fast.  So I didn't have the time to really warm up.  But sometimes happens like that.   
 Q.  How does your body respond to that?  Is that okay for your body?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: It's kind of hard, because not only you don't warm up really well, it's so cold on the court.  Even though you're running, when you stop, like even one second, I'm like, Ooh, you know, that thing?  Well, sometimes it's like this.   
 Q.  How did you spend the day yesterday?  What were you doing?  How do you not get frustrated and just keep it?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Oh, well, I wake up already thinking, Garbiñe, doesn't matter what happens today.  Don't get mad or frustrated because it's going to rain.  You're going to go on court, maybe you have to get out of the court.   
I was just prepared for everything.  I brought, you know, iPad and cards and everything.  And also like today, doesn't matter what happens.  Just think you're gonna play, and that's it.   
 Q.  Now that you've gotten the first round out of the way, how do you feel in general about just heading into this tournament and maybe your chances here?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, I feel exactly the same.  I know the first match is difficult, but the next one is going to be very difficult, also.   
So just happy that, you know, I went through the first round.  Sometimes you don't play your best tennis, but you find a way to win, which is very important sometimes, also.   
So very, very happy about today, yeah.   
 Q.  What do you know about your next opponent?  How will you go about preparing for a match like that?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, I don't know her.  I know she's French.  I don't remember.  I think maybe I saw her, but -- well, I'm just gonna do some research (smiling).  I don't know.  Maybe watch her a little bit somewhere.  But not really.   
I'm always very concentrated in my game.  I think I have a very aggressive game, which if I really concentrate on me, I use my chances.  I try not to think so much about the other person.   
 Q.  We were talking to some of the ATP players, top players, about how usually before the slams they practice with some of their biggest rivals.  So you see Rafa and Andy practicing, stuff like that.  Do you ever seek out like any of the top WTA players before the majors to try and practice with them?  Yes or no?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: No.  No.  I don't ever see really top 10 women's practicing with each other.  Maybe, but it's rare.   
I think we like to practice more with sparrings maybe.  But it's rare, rare to see.   
 Q.  Why do you think that's the case?  Because in men you see Stan and Novak, Rafa and Andy, Andy and Novak.  It's very common.  Does it not help your game or why do you think that is?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, I think maybe they practice because no sparring can match their level.  I don't know.   
I don't really pay attention to that.  I use some sparrings.  I think they are great to do some specific stuff.  I also like to practice with some girls if I can.   
I'm not very -- I don't really care.  I'm good with everyone (shrugging).   
 Q.  Now that you know a lot of the other girls on tour when you have match play, is that actually refreshing or quite enjoyable to play somebody you don't know and to work out their game, or is that just a story I'm going to write?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I think to not know the opponent makes it a little bit weird, because I'm really used to, you know -- the girl I played today, I don't know, it was sixth or fifth time.  It's kind of weird.  But I would like to play against someone I know and I played before, obviously.   
But, yeah, sometimes it's fun to get to know a new player and see how she plays, and I'll find the strategy, you know, because it's new strategy.  So, yeah.   
 Q.  I'm doing questions from fans to players.  I'm relaying the question.  Fans notice that you said your dream would be to go away to a tropical island, a paradise beach, and be on vacation forever.  So the question is where and when?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Right now.  No, no, no, (smiling).   
I saw a lot of places in the Caribbean Islands, little islands there, Antigua, or, I don't know, Guadeloupe.  There is little islands there.  I would like to go to all of them and forget about everything.  Sometimes.  Not always, but, yeah.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Spanish.   
 Q.  Yesterday tough day, you were here all day, you had to wait, then the match was interrupted, then you're back today.  How do you manage that?  Because it's like you have to rethink about tennis during periods like that or do you only focus on the match?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, obviously you can't think for six hours about the upcoming match.  You have to think about the strategy.  But there comes a point where you also need to disconnect.  What I do is listen to music.  I spend time with my coach.  We like to play cards.  I have a phone, so I call my family.   
Waiting is terrible.  And sometimes, all of a sudden, you get scared.  I try to, you know, think about other things.   
 Q.  You talked about the overall conditions today.  How did you feel?  Obviously you had to win today's match.  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Absolutely.  Today was an important match, and I was hoping for good weather.  I didn't want wind.  I didn't want rain.  But you can't choose.  You know, sometimes that's just the way it is going to be, and I think she played very well.  She was very successful in managing the conditions, but I fought hard and was able to get the match.   
 Q.  How would you describe the impact of the weather conditions on the ball?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, the surface got wet, which means a lot of humidity, which means it makes the ball a bit heavier.  Getting straight winners becomes a lot more difficult.  You really have to work hard, fight hard for each single point until you find the right window that will give you the point.   
 Q.  When you play a player like her, how do you identify the strategy?  How do you decide on the right strategy?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I think the questions are probably better for her and more adapted to her game play.  I knew I was going to have to play a long match.  I knew that each point would be long.  So I knew I would have to be patient.   
So knowing that, I just took things step by step patiently.  If it takes two hours, well, it takes two hours.   
 Q.  Obviously the weather conditions had an impact on the game plan, the ball.  Some people claim the balls are different this year.  Would you agree?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Honestly, no.  I don't know if the balls are the same brand.  It's the same brand.   
 Q.  (Off microphone.)  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I haven't noticed the difference.   
 Q.  In the WTA circuit, when there are difficulties, you can call upon a coach, which you can't do in the Grand Slam.  How do you manage that, not having access to the coach?  Do you have a way to communicate or are you just left all by yourself?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: During WTA tournaments, you can get the support of your coach.  Not the case here.  The thing is I have experience, and I know more or less what to do.  At one point, I was going to raise my hand and say, I need my coach.  But then I realized, Whoa, whoa, I can't do this.  This is not WTA.  You have to, you know, go just like the boys, do it all by yourself.   
 Q.  Similar question.  Similar to the previous one.  What did you think about the first game of the first set?  It lasted 15 minutes.  Did you think you were going to lose the game?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: No.  It was a long match, but I knew I needed to take my time.  She doesn't really come up to the net.  I just wanted to take it easy.  I was very serene.  I knew I had to place each ball very sharply.   
I wasn't worried.  Yeah.   
 Q.  Except for the weather conditions and the surface, how much pressure do you put on yourself?  This is first round.  Now you have the second round.  How do you manage the pressure?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: This is a Grand Slam tournament, and there are four.  There is more pressure.  There is more stress on everyone.  You know, most top-seeded players know that this is one of the biggest tournaments in the world.   
I'm a very ambitious person.  I always want to win.  Maybe, yes, I do put some pressure on myself.  But so far, so good.  I think I manage okay.   
 Q.  What do you think about your next opponent?  Not a very well-known French player.  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, you know what?  I think I actually do know her.  I think she's my age.  Well, maybe not.  I don't know.   
Let's say I don't know her.  I'll have to do some research and find out more about her.  (Smiling.)   
I don't know what to tell you.   
 Q.  (Off microphone.)  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I don't know.  You know, when I have to play -- whoever my opponent is, she deserves to be there, so I'm not expecting anything.  I will just, you know, play at my very best and be the best.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT