INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA
May 13, 2016
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
G. MUGURUZA/T. Bacsinszky   
7-5, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  First time in the semifinals here in Rome.  And strong start, new start with the season after a slow start of the season?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I don't think it's a slow start of the season.  Obviously I didn't have the results I had last year, but I'm doing exactly the same:  practicing hard, getting ready and fit for, you know, have good results, and this week is happening.   
I don't think it's magical.  I have been doing everything I can since I started the year, but sometimes you don't find the results you want.  But for sure is a great tournament, this one.   
 Q.  When you're playing someone like Timea hitting all these dropshots and lobs, is it fun or is it hell?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, we don't find so many players like this.  I think she disrupts you a lot.  She gets you really to her game.  You just have to be more concentrated and ready for everything because she can do everything.   
 Q.  How satisfied were you with your own performance today?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I am satisfied.  The matches I played with Timea before was very, you know, tough matches and very hard.   
Obviously she's top 10.  She's there for a reason.  So it's a great victory for me on clay, also, because she beat Carla yesterday so that's a sign she's playing well.   
 Q.  How good of a match is this for your French Open preparation to get the win against a player who is playing very well, who loves the clay, also.  You know, is it a good measuring stick for you with your level?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, for sure.  I think all the matches you can play before a Grand Slam is perfect, because it's gonna help you to get with more experience into the Grand Slam.  So, yeah, for sure if I can play ten more matches, I will play, yeah.   
 Q.  Speaking of which, about a Grand Slam, do you think that it will be better for you just to play singles than compete in doubles, also?  Because this is -- I mean, this is eating a lot of your energy if you play doubles, also.  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, for sure doubles takes a lot of energy.  But if you have the motivation, that doesn't matter.  I'm just playing a little bit less this year doubles after two years playing a lot and, you know, getting to the master and everything.   
So I'm planning to play in the future somewhere doubles.  It's a moment where I just concentrate a little bit more on singles.   
 Q.  Either Strycova or Keys next.  Two very different players.  Can you talk about what it would be like to face each of them, especially in these conditions?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, I don't remember whether I played Madison before.  They said yes, but maybe long time ago.  Strycova most recently Australian.   
I think there is just -- well, Madison, very aggressive, can be a dangerous player.  Strycova, very intelligent.  Let's see who wins.  If they are here, it's because they are playing well.  It will just be a tougher match.   
 Q.  You have also idea for mixed doubles in Rio or not?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I have no idea.  This is something that I don't really decide.  I think you can bring only one like team in the mixed for one country, so I don't know.  I don't know.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT