INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA
May 12, 2016
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
G. MUGURUZA/J. Ostapenko   
6-1, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Are you waiting for the rest of Bacsinszky/Suarez Navarro match to know your opponent tomorrow?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, I know very well Carla and Bacsinszky, both.  Yeah, I think they're in the third set.  I think Bacsinszky is leading now.   
No, not really.  I think the winner is going to be a tough match for me, obviously.  I'm just waiting to see who wins.  Not really, like, crazy.   
 Q.  You have played incredibly well this week.  Seems like everything's coming together for you just in time for the French Open.  So can you talk about what you think you have been doing well this week in Rome?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, the same.  I'm not trying to change anything.  Just, as always, practice, go to the match, do everything I can.   
So I did the same in a previous tournament, so maybe here, I don't know, I found my game a little bit more but not really changing anything.   
 Q.  Do you feel over the past couple of weeks that you have been able to get some more consistency into your game?  You obviously had a tough loss against Begu in Madrid.  You played well there.  Do you think your level has been fairly consistent over the past few weeks?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Yeah, that was a tough match for me against Begu.  But, yeah, I'm just looking forward to play as many matches I can.  That's going to help me.   
The matches I played, really, the other ones are playing very well the last previous matches I had, so I guess -- I guess that's good.  I know when the other one plays good and you lost, it's better than if you played really bad.   
 Q.  How much more relaxed do you feel playing in Rome compared to last week?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, there is a difference, obviously, because in Madrid, you know, I have a lot of motivation and I feel a lot of support.   
But, I don't know, I think here in Rome is also a big tournament, and I'm maybe less nervous at the beginning of the matches, but, I don't know.  I'm very competitive, also, so...   
 Q.  This is the Olympic game year.  Are you waiting this disappointment with or thrilled or worried because it's a first experience and a big challenge like this?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Like to go to the Olympics this year?   
 Q.  Yes.  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I'm super happy.  I'm not there yet, but I'm hoping to be there.  Like you said, I have never been.  I just want to, you know, live and feel what is an Olympic Games, because it's not easy when you never played.   
So, I don't know, I just want to feel how is the site and a lot of people.  Hopefully I can play well.  That's the first...   
 Q.  Are you a little worried?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Oh, no, not worried at all.   
 Q.  Thrilled?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Yeah.   
 Q.  Are you planning to stay in the Olympic Village when you're in Rio?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: So far, yes.  That's what I think right now.  But we'll see.   
 Q.  Are there any athletes that you're particularly excited to meet?  Because that's kind of the fun part of the Village.  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I think everyone.  Everyone that is in the Olympics is because they're amazing at what they do, but I know a lot of, quite a lot of people already from the Spain group.  But, I don't know, I just want to meet as many people I can that are, you know, great.   
 Q.  I have read that you like to cook.  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Yes.   
 Q.  Do you cook anything, any Italian food or something like this?  Did you try?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: No.  I cook sweets, more sweets.  But honestly I travel so much I don't have a kitchen to do it.  It's just like at Christmas or something like that, because now...   
 Q.  Italian, do you like it?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I like Italian.  I think everybody likes Italian food.   
 Q.  Even sweets?  Do you know any Italian sweets?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, I know tiramisu is the most famous, gelato, panna cotta.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT