BNP PARIBAS WTA FINALS
November 1, 2015
Garbine Muguruza
Carla Suarez Navarro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







HINGIS‑MIRZA/Suarez Navarro‑Muguruza
  6‑0, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please. 

Q. Can you talk a bit about the start that you had, obviously getting broken early on and then sort of the momentum sort of shifted very quickly after you were broken very early on in the first set. 
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Well, yeah. Today was really tough. They play an amazing match. You know, we try to make our game, but was so difficult. Sania played so good today. 
Nothing more to say. You know, when they play like that, it's so tough. 

Q. You two never played them as a team before. Do you think that kind of affected your preparation or something? 
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I didn't understand. Sorry.

Q. You two have never played them as a team. Did that affect your preparation?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, for sure it's important to play against them and actually to know how they are going to‑‑ you know, their game plan or how is going to be the first impression.
So to be in the final of the master and go out there playing against world No. 1 and without playing never, it's tough, you know. And like Carla said, when they play like that, obviously you have to accept that today they were better than us.
Yeah, that's it. (Smiling.)

Q. Garbine, how much of today's result was about fatigue for you all, and how much of it was about them being as good as they were today?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I think that‑‑ I think it was good today for playing doubles. I know yesterday I end very tired, but today was a final and I woke up really early. I was like looking forward to play.
But I think today we have to give the credit to the other team. I think Sania played an amazing match. Well, like Carla said, they're No. 1 for a fricking reason, so...

Q. Did you have to tell Garbine anything after her loss yesterday to encourage her for today? What's the strategy moving forward after such a tough match to prepare for today?
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Well, I know that yesterday was really long match and she want to play the final today, but yesterday in doubles after her singles she was really, really good. I really appreciate. 
And today she was the same: Really good. Together we really enjoy. We warmup together. We practice. We felt okay. Just to have fun today, to enjoy the final, going for the title.
But, well, during the match was different and was tough. 

Q. Both of you together have played 184 matches this year. Do you think you can sustain this level of tennis both in singles and doubles?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I think it's going to be hard. For sure we going to sit in Barcelona and have a talk about what's going to be doubles for next year. 
Every time it's tougher to keep this level, singles and doubles, singles and doubles. I don't know yet. For sure we will play some doubles. We enjoy and we have great time on the court, and I think sometimes you need to have fun. We'll see what happens. 

Q. Garbine, coming into this tournament you knew you were playing singles and doubles. Did you think at some point before the tournament that maybe you shouldn't play doubles? Did you think that, that it might get too tough?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, it's my choice, you know. It's true that we didn't know until the end that we were playing doubles, but it was amazing when they told me.
We were playing the whole year to get here and try to qualify, so was an amazing news. So I just think that it's great position to be. For sure I'm going to be more tired, but it's my choice.
I came here really motivated to hope to reach finals in both, but I was close.

Q. Could you each tell us what's your best memory from this week in Singapore?
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: The best memory? 

Q. Yes, from a this week. 
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Well, yesterday when we won the match and we know that we play the final. For me. Maybe for Garbine another one.
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, for me, a lot, no? Of course to qualify here. You know, just to go out there on the court and see this amazing environment here and people clapping and all the crowd really motivated.
Of course to be in the final in doubles. Last year we lost in first round, so we were like Ahh, you know. 
So to be able to come this year and get to the final and lost against the best ones, it's a great feeling. 

Q. Just want to ask you, you give a lot of credit to your opponents. Do you think they could continue their streak for the years to come? They're in their 30s already. Do you think they can keep winning at this rate?
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Yeah, if they still they can win a lot of matches, a lot of tournaments, because they really play really good together. 

Q. Can you just elaborate on that? Obviously people talk about communication and teamwork being key, but what exactly ‑‑ having played them, what about the way that they played was impressive for you guys? Is there anything specific? Obviously they are a very good team, but what about them makes them so good?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I think they have a good combination. I think Sania has the power and Martina has the experience and the hands, you know, and knows how to win matches.
So when you put this together, and obviously being in the top, top ranking, it makes a great team.
Well, they prove to this year. They won a lot of tournaments and they seem like really motivated with each other and have good communication.
Think it's everything in general. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT