INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA
May 8, 2016
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
An interview with:   
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Good morning.  You have this season many ups and downs.  Which are your feelings here in Rome?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I'm feeling good.  I think every time I go to a tournament I just try to forget everything that happened and start fresh, so I'm excited to be here.   
Last year I couldn't play because I was not feeling good.  So it's exciting to be back here.   
 Q.  Spain defeated Italy in Fed Cup playoff, so now you are in Italy.  How are you feeling being here?  What's your feeling with Rome?  Talk about it.  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Yeah, we did like a month ago, maybe less.  It was a great tie.  I'm happy to be here in Rome.  I think it's a great city.  I think the tournament has an amazing environment.  There is a lot of people who comes to see.   
I think that's my fourth or fifth year.  So I'm just happy to be back.  Like I said, last year I couldn't be here, so I'm excited to play this year again.   
 Q.  Do you like other sports?  Have you a favorite team in football, no?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I get this question a lot of times because in Spain.  I like a lot of sports.  I don't follow so much because I'm like very concentrated on tennis.  I like to see some football games, but I'm not a really fan.  I don't feel the colors of one specific team.   
 Q.  This is the last tournament before Roland Garros.  How are you going to prepare for a second major of the year?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, every day I think it's not something you do one day.  Since I start the clay season, it's helping me to prepare the Grand Slam.   
But I'm just concentrating on here.  It's two weeks for French Open, so we'll see after.   
 Q.  What's a secret dream?  I know it's a secret, but...  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Secret dream?   
 Q.  Yeah.  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Ohh.  I don't really know.  You caught me by surprise.  Anything?   
 Q.  Anything.  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Secret dream...  I don't think it's a secret.  I always say I want to go to, like, a paradise beach to relax and like stop tennis for a while, you know, go there and like holidays forever.  You know, like amazing beach, or, I don't know, like tropical place, yeah.  But that's not a secret (laughter).   
 Q.  I just wanted to ask you, how much is important Conchita Martinez in being the captain of Fed Cup and in the relationship with you, with the players?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, Conchita and I have a great relation.  She has been around me quite, like a lot already.  Every time I talk to her, she's very, you know, happy to talk with me.  She helps me a lot.   
And in the Fed Cup, it's just great to have her in the chair.  She always shares her experiences with me and with other players.  So it's great to come with her sometimes.   
 Q.  In the next month you will play in Wimbledon.  You were runner-up one year ago.  Do you think to this?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Yeah, sometimes it cross my mind but not really.  Not really yet.  It will.   
But for now I'm just concentrated on the clay season and then after.  But it crossed my mind.  I think it's going to be interesting to be there again.   
 Q.  I didn't hear the first few questions, so I don't know if it's been already asked, but you've been commenting, saying something about sexism in tennis, how "skirts sells more than sport, or the tennis itself."  How would you, I don't know, tackle the problem?  How would you solve it if you had the chance to decide something?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Yeah, I did an interview a couple of months ago.  They were asking me if I think that there is some sexism.  I said I think so, yes, because sometimes I'm in interviews and I see some photos, and what sells more, it's, you know, the look sometimes or the photo is just a sexy photo and it's not just a sport photo.   
I think it's just because in the past men were like leading more sports.  Now it's changing.  And we have some more womans in the top level.   
So I think this will change with time.  But I felt sometimes that's happening.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT