BNP PARIBAS WTA FINALS
October 30, 2015
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







G. MUGURUZA/P. Kvitova
  6‑4, 4‑6, 7‑5

THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

Q. You look tired today and you're probably on track to play both in the doubles final and singles final on the same day. How would you cope if that happens?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, for sure I'm tired today. It's going to a challenge for me to see how much my body can handle, because now I don't have a day off, like you said.
So, I mean, it's great to be in my position I think now, to be playing singles and doubles semifinals, but it's going to be hard. I have to recover well and do everything possible to be ready for both matches. 

Q. (No microphone.)
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I think so. I'll try. I don't know. 

Q. Knowing that this week is going to be pretty tough for you compared to players who probably have a day off ‑ they can go to the spa, go to the pool ‑ did you do anything conscious to keep fresh? No TV? Sleep earlier? 
GARBINE MUGURUZA: When? 

Q. Did you have to do anything to make sure you stay fresh?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Before or during? 

Q. During this whole week. 
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Oh, no, no. For sure no. I've been playing and practicing and really concentrate. I think when the tournament starts I'm really concentrated to do everything to focus on the tournament, because then I'll have time off after the tournament. It's one week of concentration, so... 

Q. What was it like playing Petra for the first time? There were so many breaks serve. Can you just talk about that and how difficult it was for you. 
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, it's good to finally play against Petra, it's because one of the top 10 I didn't play. Well, definitely was a very tough match. I think the key was serve and return. I really knew before like she serves really good and returns also.
So, well, I thinkwe've ‑‑ it's very tough is the only thing I'm thinking now. I'm really happy to win. I suffer a lot on the court today, but victories like this, it feels amazing. 

Q. When you're on the court, how much are you thinking, I really want to win this so I play Aga not Maria, or do you not think like this at all?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I went to the court thinking that I want to win the match, not only a set or just to qualify. I went there like, No Garbine, go on the court and ‑‑ if you go on the court you have to go and win, not to be half/half. 
So that's what I did. I had my good and bad moments, but I'm just happy that I've been through. 

Q. Could I ask you, when you were growing up in Spain as a youngster and a teenager, were you a Rafa Nadal fan? Was he your hero, if you like? 
GARBINE MUGURUZA: When I was a kidwas Rafa‑‑ I don't remember Rafa like that top when I was a kid. For sure he has been one of my, you know, players that I every time I turn on the TV I'm looking or when I'm in the players' lounge I'm like looking.
Yeah, he's a great example for us. 

Q. The reason I ask is the WTA have got a new chief executive, and he was in here the other day saying that one of the things he wants to do is make women's tennis as charismatic as men's tennis. One of the reasons men's tennis has been so charismatic has been Nadal. We keep asking what are you going to do, are you going to be this, are you going to be that. Do you think you can bring something to women's tennis that Rafa has brought to men's tennis?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, this is hard to say. You know, I don't know how people sees me from outside, but I don't want to be like a boring tennis player. 
I'm not sure what to answer seriously. I know Rafa has an amazing spirit on the court and outside the court, so I' definitely would like to be like this. 
I don't know if I am like this, but I think a little bit, yes. I have this Spanish, you know, inside that makes me be like this. 

Q. In the third set you had broken back and there was a changeover and you went back and looked actually frustrated and kind of shaking your head a little bit. Just curious as to what was going on in your mind at that moment and what was kind of getting under your skin a little bit. 
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, there was a lot of moments that I felt frustrated today. Today is about details, very short points, return, serve, double fault, ace. You don't have that much time to long rallies or just to feel in the court, so it's easy to get frustrated sometimes. 
But I mean, it's normal. Was a very tough match. I was very nervous also because you see you have your opportunities, but you don't like have it until the end.
So, well, I had the victory, so it's good. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT