MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 1, 2016
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
G. MUGURUZA/A. Schmiedlova   
6-2, 7-5   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Can you talk about your first feelings after playing here in Madrid?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, fine.  I think it's been a match we have a little bit of everything.  Of course I was a little bit nervous and tense because the first matches are always complicated.   
In Madrid we have this extra because I'm here at home.  Perhaps you're a little bit more nervous because of that.  But my first feeling is that I'm satisfied for winning the match, fighting, as I have fought a lot.   
 Q.  Congratulations for the victory.  Today Kerber lost in the first round.  Do you think that if she has exited the draw everything is easier for you?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: No.  I didn't even know that she was on my side of the draw.  I always say that when big names fall out of the draw it's always better of course, but at the end you can fight against players that maybe if they don't have as big numbers as my opponent today, they can play really well and you can lose that day.   
So if you ask me it's better, probably yes.  After that, we have to make it through those rounds and let's see what happens.   
 Q.  A few minutes ago Carla said that yesterday in doubles she felt a little bit uncomfortable than today on the court.  What about you?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I think that the doubles is the part that there are two people on the court and we help each other a lot.  In the case of Carla and I, we know each other very well.  Mutually we support ourselves and take the nerves off ourselves.   
So it's different in the individuals and doubles match.  In one match you're alone and it's the main category, the most important one, and maybe also that can impact and make you nervous.  Maybe that makes me be a little bit more nervous, yes.   
 Q.  How do you handle being up there being so young, being in the top players?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I manage as I can.  Of course I think it's difficult.  It's something that requires you to play very well, not only tennistically talking, but in everything you do.  You have to put everything in.   
I think that I'm very happy to be up there and very fortunate to be there.  I'm discovering how to handle it the best possible way.  To feel more confident, comfortable.  Right now I'm feeling well.   
 Q.  Last year you were out in second round against Kuznetsova.  The fact that you're just defending a few points here in in Madrid, is it something good for you?  How are you facing the next match?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: No, I'm not a player that looks a lot of points what I did last year or the year before.  Every time I go out there and play a game I'm very competitive and I want to win.  It doesn't matter if I defend points or not.  No, I haven't thought about that in any moment.   
 Q.  (In English.)  How different is the pressure playing in Madrid given it's the biggest tournament in your home country?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I think it's because we don't have so many tournaments in Spain.  This is almost the only one for women's.  It's such a big event also in our calendar.  I don't know.  I think it's an extra motivation also to feel the support of the crowd because they're really into us, the Spanish people.   
I don't know, I just want to give my best level even more to show to my crowd that, Hey, I'm playing good.  I think it's a combination of everything.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT