BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 12, 2016
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
C. McHALE/G. Muguruza   
7-5, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Obviously first set started close.  Where do you think the match sort of got away from you?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I think Christina was playing very good today.  I'm sure that the first set, it was much more like tough and difficult, and she was playing very good and she got the first set.   
Then the second one I think my energy went a little bit down and she kind of used it, you know, and went for the match.   
 Q.  A lot of frustration.  You seem to be very frustrated when you were down 3-Love.  Is it physical frustration that you're not feeling healthy or you just weren't just playing the way you wanted to?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, obviously you're frustrated when you're trying and you don't find really, you know, what you want to do and you see yourself 3-0 in the second set.  Obviously it was frustration.   
 Q.  Was the foot bothering you at all?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: No.  The foot was good.   
 Q.  There have been a lot of upsets in this tournament.  Not that you're an older player, but there are a lot of younger players starting to make a name for themselves in this tournament.  Any thoughts by you what's going on with this tournament and all these younger players making sort of -- starting to make noise?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I don't know who lost or...   
 Q.  I have to go through them.  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I just think sometimes you win because you're sometimes young.  I don't know.  Sometimes you lose.  I don't really know what to answer to that.  It's just sport, I guess.   
 Q.  It's been a tough start to the season for the top players.  Why do you think that's been?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I don't know.  I think everybody is just expecting that the big names are going to win everything, and I think just now it's a little bit changing that.   
But I don't know, really.  I think the ones who has less pressure or less, you know, smaller names in the paper are taking their chances.  You know, just changing everything a little bit.   
 Q.  Does it seem unusual to you the extent to which...  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: No, I don't think.  I think it's gonna happen.  Not every player has to win every time.   
I'm not really surprised.   
 Q.  You made a big breakthrough at Wimbledon.  Has your loss of form got anything to do with your inability to handle fame or the attention?  Was it too much?  Do you feel that or not?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yeah, well, obviously I felt a change, but I will not put this like something that, I don't know, I didn't play good today because of that.  Just don't think that's the reason.   
 Q.  You and Sam have had a couple of sort of testy coaching timeouts where he comes on and gets more emotional than maybe most players and coaches during timeouts.  Is that how things are usually with you or something in the heat of the match that you both get worked up?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: No.  I think it's just if you're in a tennis match you are always very emotional and you're fighting in just kind of a way what you feel.  I don't think is there anything wrong to do so.  Sometimes there is a camera.  You forget.  And the microphone, obviously.   
But I just think it's normal to express to your coach what you feel.  And that's it.  I mean, there is no big deal.   
 Q.  How are things going with you two overall?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Oh, perfect.  I don't think there is a problem.  He knows I have character.  I think it's a good sign when you express what you feel.  It means that you care, that you're, you know, sad.   
So that's nothing bad.   
 Q.  A random question:  You got a Miami wildcard long time ago.  IMG players, how much does it mean to you not being an American player being able to play in a big tournament?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yeah, I remember it was perfect for me because I never played amazing tournament like Miami at that time.  I think I reached fourth round, which was amazing at that moment.   
You know, I was really thankful for the wildcard because that give me the opportunity to play against top players and win matches.  I think it's a great way, you know, for young people to kind of help them.   
 Q.  You seem quite a relaxed person off the court and on court you're passionate.  Is that a big change for you?  How do you handle the different mentality when you're in competition?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I think, yeah, I'm a calm person.  Obviously inside I'm very passionate about the match, so I sometimes express in a very strong way what I feel.   
But I think I just have to deal with that and keep learning and find my way of playing matches.  Some days I'll be more calm; some days more emotional.  That's it.   
 Q.  Is there a big difference between those matches when you're playing well and not playing well?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yeah.  Every time you step on the court you want to play well.  You don't want to say, I'm not playing very well.  Obviously you're going to be more emotional when you're not playing good.   
 Q.  You had a great fall in China.  Do you feel you're able to sustain the progress you made there into this season, or everything just totally restarts once you get back to Australia and the offseason and everything?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I think everything restarts again, everyone from zero every time.  I'm just going to keep trying and looking for how I felt in Asia and sometimes during last year and that's it.  It's gonna take me more or less time?  Who knows?   
 Q.  Does the frustration that maybe you feel right now, does it feel different than the type of frustration that maybe happened a year before or before your big breakout when maybe you would have a string of frustrating loses or frustrating level of play.  Does it feel like a different type of frustration maybe these days?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Not really.  I felt like this before.  Well, maybe now it's like more on the table or, you know, people talk more, but I kind of feel the same when I get to that moment.  You're not feeling good, so it's the same kind of feeling.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT