ROLAND GARROS
October 1, 2020
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  G. MUGURUZA/Kr.  Pliskova
 6-3, 6-2
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. Can you just talk about just the match itself and what the key was in getting a fairly straightforward straight-set win.
 GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Happy because actually the first lefty I played the entire year, and it's always tricky.  Also the fact that she has a big serve and it's hard to break her.  I had to stay very focused to keep my game smart and to stay solid on my serve as well, yeah, and find a way.
 So I was happy with my shots and how I felt and certainly was a shorter match than the first one.
 Q. For you just a quick follow-up.  For you, just with how much of a fight it was in the first round and obviously having to manage kind of physicality over the next two weeks, is it a big boost for you to be able to kind of get off the court in less than 70 minutes and just get into recovery and kind of catch up to be as fit as possible as the tournament keeps going?
 GARBINE MUGURUZA:   So, yeah, after the first round I had two days, which were great after that tough match.  I felt more prepared for this one and knowing that I have solid matches under my belt already coming into this tournament.
 So, you know, just looking forward to playing more matches.  This is a tournament I love and, yeah, it's a special edition, but happy to be on the court facing different opponents.
 Q. As a former champion who has won in Paris before, I would like to ask you what does it take to win Roland Garros?  Do you feel like you have got what it takes to win at Roland Garros this year?
 GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Well, it's putting a lot of things together.  It's a long tournament, and some matches are survival.  Some matches you play better, some worse.  It's a little bit of a journey to play that many matches in a long tournament.
 Do I believe I have what it takes?  I believe so because I have the certainty that I did it already.  This year, I mean it's always a mystery.
 You know, I always think I can be a champion and in every tournament I try to play.  But I had a very scary match in the first round and that just shows that there's not really a favorite because the level in general is so high.  If you're not on your a hundred percent that day, you're not going to win.
 So it's tough to have favorites.  Yes, you have the ranking and you have the titles, but it's really, really challenging.
 Q. Obviously we see your tennis on the court and whether it looks different or doesn't look different.  But this year in 2020 compared to before is one thing, but just internally for you just mentally, both in Australia and also obviously here, in Rome as well, do you feel differently as a tennis player in 2020 than you did in 2019, 2018?
 GARBINE MUGURUZA:   I feel like, yeah, I think my game has improved.  I feel like my tennis was there and it's here.  I feel like I am better mentally prepared.  I think I did a good job trying to put things together, solve some stuff, see more clearly some other things, just in general a little bit more in perspective.
 But I think that also combined with the hard work.  So it was a big change finishing in 2019, and starting in 2020 I just felt, okay, that year's going to be different and, yeah, I feel different on the court.
 I don't think I'm a different player, but I feel like harder, I feel stronger out there.
 Q. You mentioned the word 'perspective'.  I guess that's what I was wondering about.  In what way is your perspective different with respect to your tennis and your career compared to before?
 GARBINE MUGURUZA:   I try to solve things faster.  I feel like before I probably got stuck in some wrong moments or situations or thoughts too long.  That's one example.  There's so many stuff.  I honestly don't want to share too much of this because I feel like it's very personal.
 But an example is just finding solutions quickly, have a better disposition to be not in your comfort zone.  Little things like that that you just have to, okay, take a little bit easier and have a better mindset when you're not feeling great.  So I think that's already a big change.
 Q. You have told us that in previous years you have enjoyed your time in Paris and relaxed by cooking and baking.  I presume this year you are not able to do that.  So how does that feel having a different routine this year, not being able to do some of the things that you might enjoy?  And how are you finding new ways to relax and enjoy yourself in between the rounds?
 GARBINE MUGURUZA:   It's definitely challenging being the whole time on site or on the hotel.  I feel like I am back to when I started on the tour where I spend whole time in the hotel room, you know, or on site trying to be super professional and, like, not allowing myself to disconnect or to distract from the tournament.  Then with the years you realize that it's not like that.
 But, yeah, I just feel like back to my first years where there's not much you can do, try to bring all your, I don't know, toys, video games, movies, whatever.  Everybody has their stuff.  But, yeah, you just have to think that it's a two-week event and it's going to be a big effort.  But it's two weeks of your life, you know, you have to be focused and after everybody can enjoy again a little bit more normal life.
 Q. Following on from that, does that mean that it takes a different type of mental pressure to get used to and you have to just focus on that new way of living for the tournament?
 GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Honestly I don't think about it too much because I don't have an option.  So why be and analyzing why I cannot do this, why I cannot do this.  No, I don't like that.
 I feel like, okay, this is the conditions.  I'm here.  I want to be here.  So it is my choice to be playing the tournament.  If I wouldn't want to be in these circumstances, I go home.
 But I'm excited I have an opportunity to play a Grand Slam.  And we have to be humble and accept that this is the way to play safely, and that's it.
 Q. Looking ahead to your next round is American Danielle Collins.  Can you just talk about the challenge of playing her.  She's kind of got a lot going on in her game, so she can obviously be tricky.
 GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Yes, so I think we played already in clay actually last year.  Yeah, very aggressive player.  Yeah, it's going to be, again, matching my aggressiveness with her aggressive game and trying to dominate.
 I mean, not much to say.  I think it's going to be another tough round and I have one day now to get prepared for that one.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT