DONGFENG MOTOR WUHAN OPEN
October 1, 2015
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

Q. Do you feel like things feel simpler right now in your head or in your game compared to maybe a month ago on court?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I learned from a month ago how confused a little bit I was. And now I just, you know, try to clear all these things in my mind, just go there and give my best and go out of the court happy with my effort, yeah. Couldn't be more simple.

Q. What were you confused about? What was clouding your brain a little bit back then?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, is not something special. But, you know, just after the big result, I didn't know how I was going to react. It was a little bit difficult to start from zero and, again, another tournament. 
But I guess it was needed to this happen for me. So, well, just an experience to learn from. 

Q. Fighting for this spot to Singapore has to be the last big push of your season. How does it feel to fight for a place in the WTA Finals?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I know that it's there. It's something that appear in the middle of the year, no? Suddenly everybody is talking about Singapore. I'm like, Oh. 
But, of course, is a motivation. I'm fighting hard to be there and hopefully I can do it. But, like I said, I'm not going to think so much in this because otherwise I would not play, I'm going to be so nervous. 
I know it's there. So let's see what happens in these couple of tournaments.

Q. How is it going with Sam since you started your collaboration? Do you find it interesting? Do you feel it was what you were needing at this point in the season and your career?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I'm very happy with Sam. We said to try this Asia swing. So far it's going good. We have a good relation. You know, we'll see at the end of HongKong. But for now it's great. It's great. 

Q. Are you playing doubles today?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: No, we're not going to play doubles today. 

Q. You are also a good doubles players. How do you balance them?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, is very hard, you know, when you are improving in the ranking. Everything, it's harder. And the difference are very small. So you have to be very, you know, strong. It's very difficult to play both modalities, but I'm trying. It's hard. But it's one of my goals to be able to keep the good level in both sides. 

Q. Just a question about how your game has evolved over time. When you first started playing tennis when you were very, very young, why did you play the way that you did? You have a very powerful game. Other players might play with more variety. Yours is kind of driven with power. Why do you play that way, that style?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I'm going to say something. When I was younger, like 12 or 13, I was playing the Spanish game, you know, playing lobs, three meters behind, running all the balls. 
With time, how my body has developed, is not the Spanish body in a way. I'm taller, longer. So I need to change my game and to adapt. This was the way that I was playing better, you know, more aggressive, strong shots. 
Before I was Spanish school, but I think was not good for me. So that's why I'm playing like this now. 

Q. Was it difficult because you were in kind of the Spanish style, and the coaches obviously know the Spanish game, to find a coach that could help you play the more powerful style?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I think I found very good coaches that can help me with my style of game. Even though I was in Spain, I always thought that all the coaches I had were very, you know, in that style with me 'cause that's the way I was going to play better. 
It was hard not to be the only one playing like this. Sometimes it was like, You have to play more high, more lob. 
I was like, No, that's not me. 
It's good to have someone, like, different also. 

Q. Do you think the game you have now, that it's your personality, this is the game you like to play, as opposed to the game you have to play because your body is stronger? Do you wish you played the more Spanish style or do you think, This is me?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I think the tennis is going more my side, more aggressive, more short points. But I think it's a reflection in the court. If you are like this type of player, it's because outside you are also like this. I think so. You cannot go on the court and be a character all the time. 
I think I like the game I have, so... 

Q. How much has the feedback changed around you from your country, other players, after Wimbledon? Was it tough to adjust that you're not an outsider anymore, people want to beat you, they're not looking at you the same way?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, that's obviously truth. I'm not going to lie. Once you realize, you're like, Oh. You start to think more, people are talking about you. It's something I have to learn and deal. All the players have this every day. 
But for us, the younger generation, it's difficult to be able to do that, and after be all the time constant. It's difficult for us. 
We all have to learn from this, and we have to go against the wall, then learn. Because I don't think there is no one that, you know, does all these things and then keep the level. It's hard. You can do it. Well, in my case I need to also learn. So I guess that's what happen little bit. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT