DONGFENG MOTOR WUHAN OPEN
September 30, 2015
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

Q. Difficult start, then like 'wow'. You must be pleased with your match today. 
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, yeah. I was expecting a difficult match. In the first set I think Ana was playing good. I was playing good also. I don't know. In the important moments I didn't play very good. 
But I'm happy because in the second and the third I find my way, and my tennis level was great. So, yeah, I'm very happy with my improved in the match. 

Q. It seems that quite a lot of the players are battling with tiredness at this point in the season. How are you dealing with that, keeping motivated?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I think, like you said, all of us are very nervous. We are fighting for the same reason. 
You just have to go out there and give your best, be calm, satisfied with yourself. You give all you have. That's it. You go off the court and say, Look, I did everything I could, and you're happy. 

Q. Do you feel that Singapore feels a bit closer now after today's performance?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I have no idea. I don't know how's it going. I don't know how much is the difference or whatever. 
If I go, it's going to be great. If not, it's also going to be good. I am not going to be that obsessed with Singapore. I'm doing good. Definitely I'm trying to go, but just calm. 

Q. After the first set, what do you think kind of clicked in your game? Your level in the second and third sets was incredibly high. What happened to change the match around for you?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I said, I'm going to leave the court without regrets. I fought. First set I lost. I was a little bit disappointed. I said, Look, I'm going to fight again and see what happens. 
I found my game again. I improve a lot. In the third set I play even better than the second one. 
You just have to sit down and breathe and say, Okay, new set, try to do your best, see if you can switch. It happened. 

Q. After your match against Sloane, you said it didn't relax you, but that it reminded you you still had that quality. Is this another instance of that, reaffirming that you can still play at the level you expect?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I didn't expect to play like all the matches at this level. I really expect me to be ready for every match. I did a very good preparation after the US Open ‑ that was a little bit not that good ‑ to really concentrate on Asia. 
I'm, like, having the good feelings that I was wishing to have in this Asia swing. So, yeah, happy. Hopefully I can, you know, keep this level. 

Q. A quick question about doubles. Quite a few elite players, once they break into the top 10, decide no more doubles, they just want to focus on singles. Talk a little bit about your partnership with Carla because you're two top‑10 players who continue to play together, and whether you think doubles will continue to be an aspect of your career, or will you assess it after the season?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, it's very tough when you achieve a high level to play singles and doubles. Very, very tough. 
But Carla and I are very compromised [sic] in the doubles, motivated, hopefully to go to Singapore. We're going to try as hard as we can this year. 
Definitely we have to sit down for next year and think about it, the good and bad parts. 
It's good because we enjoy playing doubles. I think when you have this with a partner, it's nice. It's not like a job or we have to play. We go to the court, it's like, Let's go, Carla, let's play. 

Q. With Sam, after a match like you had against Sloane, then the match you had today, what does he typically tell you after that? What is the message you're hearing from him with these positive performances?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: He's just saying, Good job. It's a moment where you have to be calm. Like she said, it's nervous, you want to win all the matches. It's good to have a calm mentality, not to get too anxious. 
So just focus on your attitude, your game, really simple things. Do a good job and continue at the same level, that's it. 

Q. You have a doubles match to play. It's raining. What are you going to do?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I have no idea. I'm going to maybe talk to the supervisor now to see how is the weather. I think it's tough today. It's going to be difficult. I don't know what's going to happen, but let's see. Hopefully I can play today, but I don't know. 

Q. After the match you seemed to be very excited. Could you share your feelings with us right now. And second question is, what would you do if it rains the whole afternoon?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I mean, when you're happy, you have to show you're happy. To win a match at a great level, to feel good on the court, it's not easy to have. When you feel this, you have to be proud and happy, enjoy the moment. Tennis is, like, very tense and very fast. You want to feel, Okay, it was good, be happy about your performance. 
And I don't know, probably rest. I don't know how is the weather. I'll stay and see if I can play. If not, I'm leaving to the hotel and rest.

Q. Go shopping maybe?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Not today, no. When the tournament is finished, then you have more time. During the tournament, I'm more concentrated: court, hotel, everything like this. 

Q. It's a very personal question. During the match, the referee said some Chinese words like 'quiet' and 'thank you'. Are you speaking a few Chinese words?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: No. I don't know anything. I just know 'ni hao'. There was a restaurant next to my house called Ni Hao. But I don't know. 

Q. We noticed that today, the second set, you were being very aggressive and positive; it seems more aggressive and more positive than ever before. Is this because this is the end of the season so maybe you are going to try some new solid strategies?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I don't think I'm really changing my game. I'm just really concentrate. I'm doing the best I can. In these couple of matches, I did it. 
There's nothing, like, really different. Always, as every match, every tournament, I'm trying to come here and win the tournament. That's it. Nothing has changed. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT