DONGFENG MOTOR WUHAN OPEN
September 29, 2015
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

Q. That must have felt pretty good, that performance. Talk through the match a little bit, how you feel afterwards. 
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I'm very happy with this match. I think I played very good. That's not really normal when you play at such a good level. I think it was a combination of me playing so good and Sloane a little bit not on her best day. 
I'm happy to be through the third round, really happy about this match. 

Q. My assessment is that you've been playing a little bit nervous through the summer up till now. Does a performance like today, being able to play at that level, does that maybe relax you a little bit?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: In the summer, I didn't know what to expect. I think I had the level all the time, but I couldn't show it. So to be able to do it today, it's not relaxed, but it's like, okay, you still have it, so be calm and tomorrow again. That's it. 

Q. Can you talk through the coaching change and working with Sam a little bit. What has that been like? Does it feel different? What have you been working on?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I think it's very different of what I'm used to. It's a different type of coach. But I think it's good. I like it. We're just trying this Asia swing. I feel quite good. Nothing more to say. 
I'm just happy with Sam. We're still going to finish Beijing, HongKong and everything, then we'll see what do we do. 

Q. Can you say stylistically how is he a different coach, how have your practices been a little bit different?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: It's just that I had like for a long time coach from Spain. He knows me like since I was seven. It's like a father‑daughter relation. 
But, you know, it's just different. Well, to be from another country already makes a lot of difference to me. To speak English, I'm like, What! 
I think every coach has his method of working. Just maybe I was more used to typical Spanish maybe. I don't know. It's just different. Is not something really important, but just a little bit different. 

Q. Can you tell us why you chose Sam as a coach?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I think that he had a lot of success before. He knows what he's doing. What I need now is someone that has been there up, the things you have to do to achieve. 
I just like him. He's very professional. I've seen him a lot on the tour and I like his work. 

Q. He had a lot of success with Vika, but not so much with Eugenie. 
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Is not going to change for me with Genie. It's already very difficult with every player you take to go to the top. It's so hard to be there. 
I mean, I don't care what happened with Genie. I think he can help me, and that's the most important part. 

Q. Do you remember the first time you came to China?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yes.

Q. Can you tell me about it. 
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Oh, my gosh. First time I went to Beijing. It was Beijing, yeah. I just lost there, I don't know, in qually. But I get food poison. That I remember. 
I have to be careful. It's just because it's different. I got food poison, fever. Was a disaster. Now I take care a lot. 

Q. How different is it culturally for you to be here?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Very different. It's just the people, when you speak to them, how they react. I don't know, it's just different. The food is also completely different. 
But it's good to be here playing. It's an amazing tournament. Wuhan is growing so much. I'm very shocked. 

Q. What is your mentality going into the rest of this season? Does Singapore, the potential of possibly qualifying, help you through this section of the season? What is your take on it?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: It's true it's the last chance to win points and qualify. But it's a pressure. I don't want to put this pressure. I suddenly realize after Wimbledon, Oh, you can go Singapore. I'm like, Oh. But it was not like in my mind before. 
It's like a kind of pressure. I'm like, No, no, no. If I qualify, perfect. If I don't, it's okay. I'm happy with the way I'm playing and I'm improving. 
It's true that I want to make it. I'm very motivated. But it's something that is there. I cannot be like, Oh, because then I'm going to be like, You cannot play. So there. 

Q. What do you do to prepare for your next match against Ana Ivanovic?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I didn't know I was playing Ana. I never know who I am playing until I finish. I never played against her. 
Obviously it's going to be a tough match. Looking forward to meet her. I want to play against all of the top players and she's one of the ones I didn't play.

Q. Do you know her?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yeah, I know her. We talk a little bit outside the court. I practiced with her also, but never in a match. 
I want to play and see the way she's on the court and everything. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT