WIMBLEDON
July 11, 2015
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. WILLIAMS/G. Muguruza
  6‑4, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.

Q.   Where did you think you went slightly wrong today?
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Uhm, it's hard to say because with Serena if you lose two points, you lose the match. 
I think I fight all I can fight.   I could return more, but... 
I don't know. 

Q.   What is the overriding emotion, especially after that standing ovation? 
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   I mean, I couldn't stop crying.   So many people are clapping.   I don't know.   I make all these people feel this in a tennis court?   I was like, I don't know.   I felt special. 
It's difficult to explain, yeah. 

Q.   What, if anything, did you learn from the whole experience of being in the final?
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   I learned that, you know, every match is very important.   You know, the first rounds are really hard because you're nervous.   If you get through all these situations and you're mentally tough, you have the chance to play like these kind of matches. 
You know, just I learned that it's so hard, a Grand Slam.   It's like two weeks with a lot of emotion.   But really happy. 

Q.   How do you deal with your emotions during the match itself?   Talk about the pride that you have representing Spain and also back to Venezuela, as well. 
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   It's hard to concentrate on a final because you have Serena in front of you.   You're thinking, She won five times this.   You're like this.   Is your first final.   You know that you don't have so many chances to win the match. 
You're like, Okay, every point, every point, don't lose this point. 
But I just learned that all the people are nervous, even Serena, in a final, because I saw it, and that I have a good level.   I have to believe that I can be there.   Here I have the proof, in Wimbledon, that I was really close. 
I'm really happy I saw in Spain so many people are supporting me.   Amazing.   So many people.   I didn't have a chance to see, but today and a little bit yesterday I saw.   Was amazing.   Even Venezuela also. 

Q.   When the whole crowd were cheering and cheering, what do you think they felt from you?   Why do you think they cheered you so much?
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   It's hard to say.   But I think because they saw in me that I really wanted to win, that I really enjoy there.   You know, I give everything to tennis.   They actually like when they see someone fighting so much to win.   They feel like, you know, in the match, they're feeling the same as me.   I don't know. 

Q.   It started going away from you pretty quickly at one point.   She won nine out of ten games.   What were you thinking as it was moving quickly?   How were you able to stop that and make it pretty close at the end?
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Yeah, when I lost the first set, I was a little bit sad because I saw chances in the first set.   Then, you know, when top players, Serena, they start to win games, they play really good.   Then suddenly they win three or four really fast.   You see I'm 4‑1 or 4‑2 down.   I just keep going. 
But she was playing really good, serving aces, winners.   I was like, What can I do? 
At the end when it was 5‑1, I said, Okay, I have to keep fighting, the match is not over, she's going to be nervous now to close the match.   I had a chance also.

Q.   A year ago you lost in the first rounds.   What has happened in the last year that helped you do so well here this year?
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Well, I came here with another mentality from last year because I didn't like so much grass before.   And this year I came here thinking, No, I like grass (laughter).   Seriously, Garbine, you like grass.   My game is going to help. 
Every day thinking this, you know, it worked. 

Q.   Clearly Serena likes you, but more than that she respects you.   She said at the end of the match, Don't be sad, someday you'll be winning this. 
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   It's good when you hear something like this from a legend.   Well, in this moment I was like, Yes, yes, yes (laughter).   Obviously, what are you going to say? 
Hopefully I can do it.   I was close.   It's good to hear that.   I feel better now (smiling). 

Q.   What did you learn about Serena today?
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   I learned that she's also nervous, even though she played I don't know how many finals.   And she finds the way, being so nervous, to serve, to hit winners. 
I don't know.   She's world No.1.   That's what I saw today.   I see it every day. 

Q.   How do you take the success you've had these last couple weeks and now apply it to every day, in practices, moving forward in your career?
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Well, I'm going to leave here being really motivated.   I think I'm the most motivated person right now.   This gives me a lot of, you know, power to keep practicing and improving, to see what else I can do in my next tournaments. 
I'm playing really good.   So keep working and see now the hard court season. 

Q.   Is the overwhelming emotion disappointment?   What do you feel right now in your heart?
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   I don't feel disappointment.   But you never know how many chances you're going to have to play a final in a Grand Slam.   But if you have to choose who to win or who to lose, I would choose Serena. 

Q.   You have such a great attitude.   What is deep inside going on in there?   You lost, but how much fun was this last two weeks?
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Not that much.   For the rest of th people, yes.   But for me, I'm in the court every day running.   Sometimes it's similar to have fun and suffer.   For us, we like these things. 
I had fun.   But I was like really concentrated not too, you know, get distract.   When you are in these rounds playing these kind of people, it's easy for people who is not used to to get distract, Oh, I did semifinals, it's enough. 
I really every day thinking, One more match, c'mon, you can do it.   You know, it's hard. 

Q.   The other day you spoke about the dream.   How would you compare the reality of today with what you dreamt?
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Seriously, I don't remember what happened in the dream.   But, you know, I think I fight a lot.   I didn't know how was going to go before.   I was like, I'm nervous, okay.   Do your game. 
But at the end, you don't know how your body is going to react in these situations.   I'm happy that I served, that I run, that I did good.   I felt free on the court, like no fear. 

Q.   What aspects of your game were you most pleased with against Serena today?
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   I was pleased with there were not so many rallies.   But when the point was getting, like, longer than serve, return, I saw sometimes I was better in the long points.   I was trying to do long points, but was difficult. 

Q.   Did you get a chance to talk to Conchita after this match or get a message?
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   No, I didn't take the mobile.   Not yet. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT