WIMBLEDON
July 10, 2015
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.

Q.   How do you prepare to play your first Grand Slam final and against one of the best players in Serena?
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   I think, like the other days, you don't have to do anything special.   You just have to be more calm, that's true.   But, you know, just practice, do your thing, just get ready like the other matches, yeah. 

Q.   When we spoke to Heather Watson before her match against Serena, she said she had a poster of her on her wall.   You have spoken that Serena was one of your idols growing up.   What kind of impression did she make on you as a kid growing up playing tennis?
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Well, she was kind of like an inspiration for me because when I was watching the TV, I was see her play finals, and she was No.1. 
It's one of those moments that you want to, you know, learn how she plays and try to see what you can do to play like her. 

Q.   Did you have posters on the wall?
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Oh, no. 

Q.   You did mention yesterday when you dreamed about Wimbledon, you dreamed about playing against her in the final because she's the best.   How did your dream turn out?
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   It's weird.   When I was eight, I was dreaming.   Now 11 years after, it's happening.   It's amazing. 
But, you know, it's what I've worked for.   It's the best.   Now I'm feeling that all my effort, all the work that I did before, it's like paying off.

Q.   But how did that dream turn out?   Who won the match?
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   I don't know. 

Q.   You were so aggressive in that first set yesterday.   Is that the template for the type of tennis you need to play against Serena?
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Well, I think is the game I have to play with everyone, not only with Serena.   I think it's my game.   I have to be focused to do it every match. 
And, yeah, I want this to be my style of play. 

Q.   Have you heard from any dignitaries or anybody from Spain who may come to see you? 
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   I don't have idea, no. 

Q.   No messages of congratulations from anyone special from Spain?
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   No, I don't think so.   I haven't checked the mobile so much, but I'm not, like, into these things right now. 

Q.   What are your goals in tennis?   What do you hope to accomplish as a tennis player?
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   I don't have idea.   I want to keep playing, you know, seeing what can I achieve, try to find where is my limit. 
I don't know.   I don't know yet. 

Q.   There are a lot of congratulations on social media from Rafa, Feliciano, David.   How much does that mean to you, that they are behind you and supporting you?
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   It actually means a lot because, you know, to read these messages from these kind of players, it's so cool.   You know, I'm actually really happy that they support me and they watch me play.   It's really good. 

Q.   You kept saying that grass is your least favorite surface.   After what happened here, do you feel maybe grass suits your play now?   Does it change your mentality?
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   For sure my mentality is going to change.   But I don't have like a favorite surface because I feel really comfortable in all of them.   I'm changing every week.   When I'm playing good, I love this surface.   When I'm playing bad, I hate this surface.   I'm kind of like this. 
Actually now I love grass (smiling). 

Q.   How important psychologically is it that you beat Serena last year?
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   It's really important because it makes you see and realize that she's also a person.   She also have feelings.   She also nervous. 
To her, she knows that I can, you know, win against her, that I'm not afraid.   You know, I don't think she's really used to this.   Serena, she doesn't lose so many matches in the year.   I think it's important.

Q.   She does have this aura of invincibility with certain players.   We saw it yesterday with Maria Sharapova, losing to her 17 times in a row.   To have that edge must be quite significant. 
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Yes.   She's world No.1 for something.   She shows every year that she's the No.1.   She's the toughest player.   It's going to be the hardest challenge tomorrow. 

Q.   A lot of British tennis fans only really watch Wimbledon.   Before this year they didn't know much about you.   Can you tell us what you like, what you enjoy away from the court, and perhaps what your proudest achievement away from tennis has been in your life?
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   You know, when I'm not playing tennis, I'm really, you know, calm.   I don't like to do so many things.   I just want to spend time with my family because I don't see them a lot.   I'm always traveling. 
Just being home, talking, watching movies, speaking with my mom about whatever.   I like to cook.   I like to listen to music.   I'm always with my music everywhere.   I carry my speakers in the pocket everywhere. 
So, yeah. 

Q.   What kind of music do you listen to?
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Everything.   I put like shuffle, and everything.   So maybe opera, then reggae, reggaeton, pop. 

Q.   You mentioned baking yesterday.   Do you have a signature dish?
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Desserts.   I always say the same.   Anything with sugar.   Sometimes I try to do new things, but it's a disaster.   I think after Wimbledon I'm going to start to cook more. 

Q.   2013 at the beginning, you weren't even top 100.   Two years later, we're here at Wimbledon.   Are you surprised it's so fast?
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   I think in tennis everything is so fast.   It's actually true that two years ago I was not in the top 100.   It's like, wow!   In so short time, I'm here. 
But it happens so many times.   People, suddenly you see them in the top, you don't see them, then you see them again. 
I think sports is like this.   You have to try to be more constant, you know. 

Q.   You mentioned yesterday that it was difficult to cut through in Spain because of the men.   Do you feel the pressure of being now the head of women's tennis in Spain?   Is it exciting for you? 
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   I don't feel pressure at all.   I think the goal of Rafa is really high for pressure. 
I'm just happy to be here.   This is a great achievement.   I think it's really good for women's tennis.   You know, just to try to keep improving, to give more good news. 

Q.   Serena is obviously still going strong at nearly 34.   Can you imagine yourself playing that long?
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   I mean, it depends, no?   I can imagine.   I love tennis.   I play since I was four. 
But depends of the injuries, the success you have, how your personal life also goes. 
But I'm not going to say no because you never know.

Q.   Does that impress you more about her that she's able to play at that age at this level?
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Yes, yes, it's very impressive.   Not only because she's 34, because she's been there since she was, I don't know, 17. 

Q.   You mentioned some of your superstitions yesterday.   Do you go through a routine before every single match?   Have you also come to a decision about whether your parents will watch you?
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   I'm not superstition, no.   I have my routines.   I think the tennis day is very similar.   You always do the same:   you go to the practice, to the fitness, to the gym.   It's really similar. 
But I'm not that superstitious. 
And my parents, they're going to be in Barcelona watching me from the TV.   I don't want to change anything, but I'm not superstitious (smiling). 

Q.   Is it really possible for you to walk on court tomorrow and say, I want to enjoy myself, I want to beat Serena?
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Both things.   I want to enjoy, because is a very special moment.   Yes, I want to win tomorrow.   I feel like it's like something you think you can?   Yes, I think I can win.   I mean, I think I'm playing good. 
It's true that it's a very difficult match.   But I think I have to believe I can do it.   I have options.

Q.   Can you enjoy yourself tomorrow without a fear of this woman beating you?
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   What? 

Q.   Can you really enjoy yourself tomorrow without the fear that she might beat you?
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   I'm going to enjoy tomorrow, depends what happen.   Is going to be the best day of my tennis career.   If I win is going to be much better.   But doesn't matter the score, I'm going to be really happy and proud. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT