CHINA OPEN
October 11, 2015
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.  
   
 Q. It was a tough start, then little by little you found your way through this match.   
GARBINE MUGURUZA: It was. It was a very tough start of the match. I was nervous. I was really nervous because I came from the final of Wuhan thinking, C'mon, I want to win this one so much. Sometimes it doesn't help to think like this, but you cannot say no.   
I think, yeah, it was tough. But I could turn it around at some point during the set. I think also Timea started really believing she could do it, and she was playing great.   
   
 Q. How well do you think you served today?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, not the best day. I think I served more in an intelligent way, not like strong or fast or amazing serves. More thinking what could I do more to hurt Timea on the return.   
But I think it helps me are lot today on the serve.   
   
 Q. What are you doing next? What do you think of your chances for the WTA Finals given you're in such great form?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I'm going to rest now a couple of days. I think my body's telling me to stop a little bit after all this three weeks of matches, not so many days to recover.   
Well, I think I'm playing good. I need to keep my level for Singapore. I think I have options. It's going to be a battle out there. But I earned my place, so that means that I can hopefully hold the trophy or let's see what happens, I don't know.   
   
 Q. In Wuhan, Venus won. You pulled out due to the injury. How did you manage to get yourself together and keep from an injury? Any secrets for that? Is that because you're younger than her?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, yeah, it was very disappointing in Wuhan because I hurt it on semifinals. I did not have enough time to recover for the final. After Wuhan I had three days, three or four days, until Beijing started. I had a bye, so it was amazing that day for me.   
The first days here were tough because I felt pain. But with tapes and treatment and trying to play intelligent the matches, I think I did quite good. It was recurring during the match, trying to do good things like this.   
   
 Q. First Grand Slam final, first premiere event champion, first year‑end finals. How satisfied are you right now?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Really happy. A lot of things has been going on in this Asia swing. But that's good. I mean, to be able to live this, I lost in the final. That is good, final Well, I won in the final. I qualified.   
It's a lot of things happening that I have to calm down now and really think about it because it's a big achievement. Sometimes you're like rushing everywhere, you're not thinking. Now I'm able to rest couple of days and really think about what I've done and what I did good, not good, to learn.   
It's amazing to be able to live this so fast.   
   
 Q. Is it safe to say that things are going well with Sam in this Asia swing? Can you talk about what it's been like the last two weeks working with him.   
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I'm not going to say it's bad. It's great. We were laughing. Now everything can be worse only (laughter).   
I'm really happy with how we working together. We'll sit together after these Asia tournaments and we'll talk about what we're going to do. For sure I'm happy the way we're working. I think he's a very professional guy. He knows what it takes to be there. This is very important for me, to have somebody knows what I have to do and what I don't have to do. Let's see. It's not official, but let's see what happens.   
   
 Q. With this win, you'll rise to world No.4. Talk about the significance of that achievement.   
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, definitely it's a big achievement. I think, you know, to see you are improving, also on the tennis side, but in the rankings, it's that moment when there's only three more in front of me. It feels good. It feels that you're doing in a right way your things.   
I don't know. Three more. Three more (smiling).   
   
 Q. Your birthplace is in Venezuela. In that place there are a lot of Miss Worlds from your birthplace. When you were young, did you think you could be one of those Miss Worlds?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I didn't think about being a Miss. There it's crazy. Everybody wants that her son‑‑ no, daughter, become a Miss.   
Been since three I was playing tennis. For me it's tennis, not that. Never thought about it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT