WIMBLEDON
July 7, 2015
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







G. MUGURUZA/T. Bacsinszky
  7‑5, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.

Q.   I'm interested if you know about your followers in Venezuela?
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Well, I feel a lot of fans from Venezuela also because I was born there.   I kind of practiced when I was little.   So it is good to have two countries behind you. 

Q.   You have a big following in Venezuela?
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Well, I don't know.   I hope, yes.   I hope so. 

Q.   Are you surprised this came here at Wimbledon?   You made the French Open quarterfinals twice before.   Are you at all surprised that your first semifinal is at Wimbledon?
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Well, first of all, I'm very happy to be to semifinals because I lost two times quarterfinals. 
Yeah, I'm surprised that my first semifinals is on grass.   But I think I'm playing really good.   I think the surface helps me.   So, yeah. 

Q.   How did you find it out there today?
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Really good.   I wake up this morning thinking, I have to play.   Today I woke up, I want to play the match.   I feel good.   I'm enjoying, you know, Court1, a lot of people.   I was, you know, having fun. 

Q.   How did you find being out on the big court?   Secondly, yesterday Caroline Wozniacki said there are too few women's matches on the big courts here.   Do you agree?
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   I like to play on big courts because it's extra motivation.   I like when people live, they feel what you feel when you're on the court, feel really good. 
I didn't even look at the schedule.   One day is like this, maybe next day is going to be the opposite.   I don't know. 

Q.   What does the opportunity to make history mean to you?
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Well, I don't want to think about this because I don't think it's going to help me right now to have these things on my mind.   I just want to, you know, get ready for my next match, you know, play like today or this week, all these matches. 
Not thinking about history or Spanish, you know, all these things that are not tennis today, tomorrow. 

Q.   So many great players have been on Centre Court at Wimbledon.   Billie Jean King, Martina Navratilova, Steffi Graf, many others.   Who are some of the others you have admired most who have played at Centre Court at Wimbledon and what are your images of them?
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   I have to say it was a man, not a woman.   But I've never seen so many matches in Wimbledon, I don't know why. 
But I remember a match of Ivanisevic.   Was a final.   I don't know, I remember this match very special because it was, you know, very tough, and I had fun watching it. 
I don't actually see a lot of matches in TV. 

Q.   What does Centre Court at Wimbledon mean to you, though?
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   I played once in Centre Court.   I mean, Centre Court is special.   It's the biggest court here in Wimbledon.   You know, it's weird.   It's like silence.   There is no brands.   It's different, but it's good. 

Q.   Did Antonio Banderas have any words for you when you met him in the dining room?
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Well, I just ask him, What are you doing here? 
He said that he actually likes tennis.   I didn't know. 
He was happy to be here.   He was watching Nadal match. 
I was telling him that I was a big fan of his movies.   He was telling me that he just made a movie.   He was explaining me what was the movie.   I was like this.   I was so nervous in the beginning (smiling). 

Q.   Who are the great players in women's tennis history who have had an impact on you and what are some of the things that you've drawn from them?
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Well, Williams sisters, obviously.   Because when I was 10 or 11, they were No.1.   Now they're still No.1.   I think they change a lot tennis.   I learn from them.   Also from Maria and Hingis also. 
But I always like to take little parts of every player and try to, you know, do the same things. 

Q.   Can you be more specific?   What are some of those little parts and who are the players?
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   You see Williams sisters, the power, the aggressive, the confident they have in theirselves. 
You see Maria, she has a very good mentality and she's very focused during the whole match. 
Or Hingis, she's like very talent. 
You know, you just take few things and make your perfect player. 

Q.   You beat a couple of top‑10 players in earlier rounds.   In the bottom half there are no top‑10 players left.   Does that influence your thinking going into the next couple matches of playing somebody who hasn't won a Grand Slam before, doesn't have that much to their name?
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   If they're in this round, it's because they won these top players.   Yeah, you have the good part that maybe it's new for them also.   But you have to be also have the respect as they were the best players.   If they won, it's because they're playing good.   They also won the title.   You have to be calm. 

Q.   What do you think of both Keys and Radwanska?
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Well, I think they like grass.   They play good.   I know Radwanska did final here few years ago.   Keys, she likes to play on grass with her game. 
They're really different players.   But they like grass, and this is very important when you like grass.   So, well, I just saw that they're playing now.   We'll see who wins. 

Q.   When you see the Wimbledon Championship trophy, what goes through your mind? 
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   When I think about the trophy?   I don't think about the trophy. 
Well, nothing special.   It's big tournament, a Grand Slam.   It's like all the best players are here.   But nothing more about this. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT