DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 19, 2020
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








G. MUGURUZA/V. Kudermetova
7-5, 4-6, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Why was that so hard?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: So what?
Q. Why was it so difficult?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I think she's playing great. Is the first time I play against her. Nowadays, even if it's not the biggest name, every match is tough.
I think she played super aggressive, super big serves. I've seen her results. She's just getting better and better.
Q. What did you think about your own game today?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: There's a lot of things that I could have done better. But I'm excited that I gave myself another opportunity to be in the quarterfinals, just staying in the fight because she was playing great, not giving up until the last point.
Q. What are you most pleased with with your game at the moment?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: There's nothing specifically. I'm just happy that I get these tough matches on my side. Honestly, the difference is very, very small. There is moments where you don't feel like you get them, and there's moments where you feel like I'm getting them.
Just happy, like I said before, to give me another chance to be in quarterfinals.
Q. Brady is playing well this year. How much have you seen of her and what do you make of the progress she's made?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Everybody's playing well today. When you're in quarterfinals, you're playing girls that are going through the tournament. She's playing good. Excited to play her for the first time also, to get to know her tennis.
Q. Can you talk a little about your relationship with Conchita. Do you talk a lot? Can you describe that?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I mean, we have to start talking that I know her I think since I'm like 14 or 15. It's a lot of years.
Since the first moment we had a nice I would say complicity and relationship. Through all these years it's just getting better. Also when she was a Fed Cup captain.
We talk. Of course, we share. We have a good energy together. So it's good.
Q. Is she something like an older sister?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: No. I think I see her as a legend, as someone that I have to learn a lot because she's been exactly in the same situations, just with probably 15 years more of experience. So definitely not a sister. Just more as a real coach.
Q. You spoke on the court about the inner calm that you try to have. What has the process been like for you to find that calmness and muster it when you need it the most?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I mean, it's not that I'm doing it specifically right now. I feel like I'm doing it since I started to play on the WTA. It's no secret. You are playing tough matches, long rallies. Every opponent gives you a hard time.
You just have to stay there and stay with her until, well, someone is going to get it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT