WIMBLEDON
July 4, 2015
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







G. MUGURUZA/A. Kerber
  7‑6, 1‑6, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Talk us through all that.   How do you describe that performance?
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Well, very intense, I think is the word.   Very long match.   Good rallies.   Amazing points.   We were fighting like crazy, both players.
Yeah, intense. 

Q.   Does it seem, looking back on the match, like a blur?   Like do you remember like how intense that first set was and how well you played those set points in particular?
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Yeah, I remember.   I remember.   I was like, My God, I can't believe this first set, you know. 
It was like 13‑13?   What's the score? 
You know, it was a really like tight moment, and I was happy that, you know, I could win this first set because it was very important.

Q.   Let me make sure about the last point.   The line judge called it out and you challenged it?
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   I have no idea.   I don't remember.   I just saw it was in, and I almost died (smiling).   I don't know.   I didn't heard anything.

Q.   You challenged it?
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Yeah, I challenged it because I thought it was in.   Mariana was like, I don't know.   I said, Challenge, or whatever.   Do something (smiling).

Q.   What kind of thought went through your mind when you see some ball mark got in and you realize you won?
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Well, you know, I just felt really happy and relieved, because I was suffering a lot, because Angelique was also playing really, you know, low and deep and all the rallies were so long.   So just like really happy.

Q.   Your next opponent is Wozniacki.   How do you see that match?
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Another tough match.   I don't know.   She won 6‑2, 6‑2, huh? 
I mean, I just finished now.   I will concentrate I think tomorrow against Wozniacki, but it's going to be another tough match.   She's playing good.   I saw her playing some points, and, yeah. 

Q.   How do you see her as a player and her tennis style?
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Well, I think it's a little bit similar to Kerber sometimes.   They have really solid game on the baseline and really strong legs.   So it's gonna be a long match, for sure. 

Q.   You have played against her sometimes.   What do you remember?
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Yeah, I played her like three times.   I remember she's very constant, good mentality and always, every point, fighting.   That's what make her good player.

Q.   Was that the best grass court match you think you've played?   And then also, how comfortable are you on the surface?
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Yeah, I think it's the best match.   I didn't play so many in grass, but, you know, at the beginning I was like kind of, What is this, the grass? 
Because in Spain, we never thought about grass (smiling). 
But then, you know, I start to play WTA circuit and I find there is one month you have to play on grass, you have to say yes or yes. 
I'm getting used to it, and I think I'm very comfortable with my game on grass.   I just need to, you know, play more matches and, you know, just things, key tactics, get grass good.

Q.   What's the most difficult thing for you on grass that you have to adjust to?
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Well, I think I have to like go really down.   My legs are so tall, and sometimes I'm like, with my back like this (leaning).   Yeah, that's it.

Q.   What does Wimbledon mean to you?   For a lot of the players, they say this one is one of their favorite tournaments because of tradition and history.   What is this tournament about for you?
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   It means something very special, obviously, because it's a Grand Slam, first of all.   Then because it's in grass.   You know, it's weird for me, because, I don't know, it's like not the best Grand Slam I played, because I always had bad results.
So, you know, now I'm getting really, like, happy to be here because I feel more comfortable, so it's getting more special every time. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT