CHINA OPEN
October 7, 2015
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.  
   
 Q. How did your ankle feel in your first match after your injury in Wuhan?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, definitely feel much better after these three days, because I started on Wednesday.   
I'm pretty happy of the improvement. Well, is still something there, but I think I have to play with this feeling.   
   
 Q. At one stage in this match you won nine games in a row. You must be happy with your performance today.   
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I am very happy. I tried to keep the level I had in Wuhan and also in Tokyo. It was, you know, hard because I didn't play for two days. And here, well, the conditions are not the same. So I'm happy to be through the third round with this victory, so...   
   
 Q. What is motivating you or giving you that extra motivation this week? If you win the next round you qualify for Singapore.   
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Is it true?   
   
 Q. I'm sorry, I didn't want to tell you.   
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Okay.   
   
 Q. I figured you needed to know. But does that motivate you at all or are you taking it one match at a time and trying to stay healthy?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I didn't know that. I know obviously if I do a great tournament here, I will qualify. But I didn't know which round was it.   
I think for sure that's a very good motivation. I think it's 'the' motivation, to finally go there and be one of the top players.   
I think I want to finish in a good way the year. I want to go on holidays and say, Look, I had a great year, I did everything I could, to go off the court feeling that I did all my effort.   
   
 Q. After Wimbledon you had a couple of losses, but it seems when you came to Asia you started winning a lot more again. What was the key for you for turning it around when you got to Asia?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, the US Open Series was a little bit like, I need to start from zero again. It was tough. But I prepare much better this Asia season, more than the US Open season.   
You know, I learn a lot from that U.S. tournaments because I think mentally I was not as ready as I am now. So I worked really hard to prepare these ones. I think I'm doing what I work on, so it's good.   
   
 Q. Your name sounds like mushroom in Chinese. Many Chinese fans call you mushroom in Chinese. How do you like this nickname?   
GARBINE MUGURUZA: My father used to call me mushroom. You know why? Because they look sometimes pretty, but inside, if you eat them. You're like dead. These ones are red. It's funny.  
Why they call me mushroom? I didn't understand. Why?   
   
 Q. The pronunciation of your name sounds like mushroom in Chinese.   
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Oh (smiling). Well, I think it's funny. That's it. It's just, you know, funny.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT