DONGFENG MOTOR WUHAN OPEN
October 3, 2015
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.  
   
 Q. (No microphone.)  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I was. I was feeling very tired. But I said, I'm going to the court, even if my leg is (indiscernible).   
I woke up saying, C'mon, I'm going to play. But during the match, I was like, Oh, shoot, my leg is hurting. Oh, my ankle is hurting.   
   
 Q. The first set, you weren't that far.   
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I know, I had my chances. But I knew with Venus, it's hard. With her serve, with her shots, if you're not 100%, you finally don't see like how to play against her. That's a little bit what happened.   
I couldn't be 100%. So I was like, you know, a little bit...   
   
 Q. Do you know if you're going to be okay in a few days?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: We're going to do some work, maybe some miracles, I don't know. The next tournament is really, really important, Beijing.   
Let's see how I wake up tomorrow and hopefully I can play. I mean, I'll try, like today.   
   
 Q. You mentioned the leg and also the ankle, which we saw you hurt yesterday. Which was it? Which was the primary reason why you decided to retire today?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I had the ankle a little bit, you know, with pain since yesterday. I've played a lot of matches from Tokyo to here. So every time, you're like, Okay, I'm more tired. Next day, I'm more tied. And today, my body was like pain everywhere.   
So I was serving, pain in my back, pain in my left leg. So a little bit everything.   
   
 Q. Did you get any specific treatment or special treatment between yesterday's match and today?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I didn't have so much time to recover. I mean, I left here like 8:00 or 9:00. So there's nothing you can really do. It's like this.   
I guess it didn't recover that good.   
   
 Q. Can you talk about this week, just generally how pleased you were to make the final and what this sort of result means to you.   
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I'm very happy. It's a great week. It's a big event. But disappointed to not be able to feel good on a final because we all want to win the tournament. When you reach the final, you finally are there, you're like...   
Now I'm a little bit sad. But it's been a great week. I played very good tennis. So hopefully I can keep this for the next tournament.   
   
 Q. On Monday you'll make your top 5 debut.   
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Okay. I didn't know. I never check these things. It's like, I don't want to know. I don't want to know.   
Well, good.   
   
 Q. Aside from the very big smile that you have, what does that sort of mean for you and what does it say about your season?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, definitely it's a good season. If you're improving, especially in the tennis court and also in the ranking, it feels good. It means you're doing good things.   
It's going to be my best ranking. Yay! Hopefully I can keep it for the rest of the year.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT