MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 3, 2015
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







G. MUGURUZA/M. Torro‑Flor
  6‑1, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions in Spanish, please. 

Q.   51 minutes the match, 6‑1, 6‑1.   Were you expecting such a comfortable victory?
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Well, you never expect an easy victory when you're playing against someone you know so much.   She's my age.   Last match we played was quite dramatic.
Well, I have done very well and I'm very happy.   I am very happy that it went so fast. 

Q.   You are waiting Kuznetsova in the second round.   She's in good shape.   What are your expectations? 
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Well, Kuznetsova, I haven't seen her for a long time.   I trained a lot of times with her.   I think the altitude here is good for her rhythm.
For her to beat Makarova the way she did she must be playing well.   Every match is tough.
Let's see if I manage to beat her tomorrow.

Q.   Halep was just beaten.   Maybe the draw opens up a little bit.   What are your expectations? 
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Well, I don't know.   Two years and a half ago I haven't been looking at the draw.   I don't look at the draws. 
Well, that Halep is out of the draw is because Cornet is playing better on this surface.
You know, the draw is not more open for me because she's out.   I think that every single match is tough.   Well, Cornet beat her, but I don't want to think if I beat this one I will have this one or the other.
Just don't like to think about those things. 
Q.   This is the only WTA tournament here in Spain.   Next year we'll have Mallorca on grass.   What do you think about that?   Also, the women players want to have more tournaments, the same as the guys?
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   It's as pity there is only one tournament in Spain.   Well, it's very big.   That's also very nice.   It's very cool and very big.   It's a very important moment in the year for me.   I want to do very well. 
You're a little bit nervous.   You only have one opportunity and you want to go for it.   It's great that we'll have another tournament in Mallorca. 
Another tournament that we can play at home is great.   In the court it was a great atmosphere.   I was very surprised when I saw all the crowd.   It was great.   It was just a great feeling. 
I was just thinking, Oh, my God I'm here in Spain playing with everyone in front of me.   It was just amazing. 
Q.   After such a great start to the year, do you think you have stopped a little bit in the last couple weeks? 
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Well, I think I started pretty strongly.   It's true that it's very difficult to keep it up.   It's very difficult to keep up the level, and that's what I'm trying to do. 
I'm trying to fight against people that are in front of you.   At least try to fight all the matches.   I know that I'm a player that at the moment consistency is not a strength.   That's a goal:   to be more consistent.
There are good times during the year where matches are pretty close and everything is fine.   Some tournaments are better, some not.   Things happen.   I'll try to do my best. 
Q.   Last year with Carla you did really well in the doubles.   What do expect this year? 
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Well, talking about the doubles, it's curious, because we don't think a lot in the doubles.   Just go in and, Come on Carla.   I play like I do and you play like you do and it just works out. 
It's something that we just do to feel a little bit different, to feel free.   We do things that perhaps when we're playing individually we don't do.   We feel freedom when we play doubles.   Come on, Carla, let's play and see if we can win this match.
We are very focused on our individual careers, so it's something very different.   We'll try to do as well as last year because it was great.   We lost in the final.   It was a pity, but very well.   I will do the same. 

Q.   What do you expect in this tournament?   You started really well.   I don't know if you think you're strong enough to win this tournament.   In the doubles you made it the to final.   What do you expect in the singles? 
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Well, what do I expect?   I have no clue.   I am really expecting to out there every time I have a match and try to win it.   I cannot ask for more.   I just try to go out there and finish the match and play well, to find myself well. 
Really I don't have anything on my mind.   I don't have any numbers.   I'm just not thinking.   Just being better and better.   Trying to focus on my weak points and just trying to be more confident and not to have surprise matches.
Basically that.   Everything will come after.   I will have matches and go up in the rankings if everything works out. 

Q.   Today in the match it seems that the crowd was on your side.   Do you think that the support in the crowd will be more pressure for your game? 
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   No, I don't think so.   I really like it.   The bigger the court the better.   I feel very comfortable.   Whenever I play in the 20th court I say, Oh, no.   I want to play in the center court.   I want to have a lot of people there supporting me.   It's Something really positive and it really motivates me.
It motivates me that I go out on court and the people are supporting me.   I just want full courts, even if they're not on my side.   It's something very motivating. 

Q.   How do you see the clay court here in Madrid?   Can you say something about the courts?   Other players say it's great. 
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Well, I come from very different tournaments.   In Stuttgart the clay is very different.   Marrakech, too. 
But it's true that the clay is really good.   I liked it.   It's very well laid down.   No bad bounces at all.   The clay is like thick.   It's not very thin.   Like you don't slip.   You feel really comfortable playing on it. 
Yeah, I like it.   I know that I like clay, so it's just great. 

Q.   Serena has done many victories this year, and you're one of the few players that have beaten her in big tournaments, like Roland Garros.   Do you think that you can beat Serena? 
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   I think that with Serena it's pretty complicated.   You can never say that you can go out there and beat her. 
I think you just to have believe in yourself.   You don't have to have the fear that everyone has towards her.   It's true, I mean, you go on the court and everyone is saying, Serena, look at her.   But you just don't have to have fear.   You have to go out there and fight.
Okay, Serena is here, but I'm also here, and I can beat you.   It's true when she plays well it's complicated because she does everything perfect.
I don't know how many times I have heard her name in the last month. 

Q.   Yesterday we interviewed Bouchard, and she said it was time that the youngsters came up.   It was time for a new generation.   Of course you are in this generation.   Do you see that as some pressure?   Do you think that the new players should come up and push the players that are up there? 
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Well, it really has been a change in generations.   There are a lot of young girls in their 20s that are pushing.   They're playing very well. 
But if you just think about the girls that are up there, they're always an average of 25 or whatever.   I think once you're up there you have a really good rhythm of game. 
You can be young and play great, but in the end you have to be constant.   That's very difficult for younger players.   You know, to be up there you have to have experience.   You can also be young and be up there and it's complicated, but you have to go slowly. 
I don't see that suddenly there are three young girls in the top 10 or anything.   Just something that has to be done slowly. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT