DONGFENG MOTOR WUHAN OPEN
September 28, 2015
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.  
   
 Q. You have been here for a few days. How do you feel during the training session, the new courts?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I arrive yesterday in the night from Tokyo.   
Well, I played today. I played a doubles. I felt pretty good. Well, it's different from the other tournament. But I saw that the courts are like really new and shiny.   
For the moment, it's good.   
   
 Q. Now having the China season, Wuhan and Beijing, back‑to‑back tournaments, do you want to talk about your expectations coming to Asia. Obviously Singapore is coming and you probably want to qualify. What do you want to achieve in Wuhan and Beijing?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I'm really motivated to play these two tournaments. Is the last chance to win points and obviously qualify. For sure I want to qualify, so I'm going to try my best to see how far I can go.   
I don't know. I'm excited to see what happens.   
   
 Q. Did you do something to celebrate your first Grand Slam runner‑up?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I took, like, a week off. This is something different, to have free time. Well, I enjoyed my family a lot in Barcelona. I did shopping. I went to the beach. I could relax and calm everything a little bit and enjoy the final.   
   
 Q. We all know you played very well in Wimbledon, your first time into a Grand Slam final. I think this is very helpful for you. You played not very well after Wimbledon. What is going on? Can you tell us?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I think everybody's expecting me to play like really high level since Wimbledon. But it's really difficult. It's a new feeling, kind of.   
You never know how you're going to react. So it was difficult to start from zero again after this emotion and all this happening.   
But I guess I'm learn from that. It's already passed and I'm looking forward to try to go back and play at the same level as I played at Wimbledon.   
   
 Q. Which surface is your favorite? You played good in Roland Garros in 2014. Wimbledon you also played so good.   
GARBINE MUGURUZA: It's hard to say. All the time changing. When I play good in a tournament, I change, I like grass. Then in the next tournament if I play good, I like clay.   
I don't have a favorite surface. It's true that in Spain we play more on clay. The circuit, it's more on hard. My best result is in grass. It's amazing. So I don't know. It's hard for me to say one.   
   
 Q. The Spanish women's team now have two top 10 right now. Do you think next year this team will have a better shot to play some good results in Fed Cup?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, definitely I think we have a good team. We'll have to see. I mean, we have to talk and see what chances we have.   
It's true, it's a good opportunity to win and to go to the World Group. Spain has a lot of Fed Cups from before. Maybe it's a good moment to start to, you know, be again the same. But we'll see next year.   
   
 Q. Being the leading player from one country is never easy. Something you experience together right now with Carla. Is it more motivation or more pressure? How do you deal with this kind of experience?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I think it's hard. But when you have a lot of pressure, it means that it's good, you're playing good, you earned this pressure. You have to deal with it.   
I think it's one of the difficult parts. But, yeah, I mean, it's hard. I have to say, I'm not going to lie. You have to be ready for that. It's part of the tennis game. It keeps you motivation. People see you can be the best and they really believe in you, so that's good.   
   
 Q. Part of the game as a top player, you have to participate in a lot of promotion activities from the tournament and WTA side. Do you enjoy that as a star player? Do you enjoy this, being in the light?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I think it's part of the tennis. You have to also learn how to enjoy. In my case, I also appreciate when people like what you do. It's the best feeling you can have when people admire you, when kids come, I want to be like you, playing tennis. This is a great feeling to have.   
Yeah, talking about like myself, I enjoy this, so it's good.   
   
 Q. Something not about the match, but about your habit. We all know you love cooking.   
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yes.   
   
 Q. Which kind of food do you like to cook when you have time?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I like to cook desserts, everything with sugar, like sweets, cakes, cookies, brownies, all this stuff. I know it's not the best for an athlete. It's what I like to do. I eat a little bit only. My brother eats everything (laughter).   
   
 Q. Will you try some Chinese food? It's very different from what you cook.   
GARBINE MUGURUZA: It's very different, the Chinese food. But I'm going to try a little bit. I'm not sure, but I'm going to try.   
   
  
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT