WIMBLEDON
July 9, 2015
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 G. MUGURUZA/A. Radwanska
  6‑2, 3‑6, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.  
   
 Q.   What does it mean to you to be in the Wimbledon final?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Well, it means a lot.   You work all your life to achieve Grand Slam final, to be in this situation.   It's like a dream, like a present after the hard work.   
   
 Q.   It should be mentioned sometime back you were having problems with your knees.   Now you're in the finals of Wimbledon.   You got a text from Conchita.   Could you tell us about that text.   
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   About that text?   
   
 Q.   Yes.   
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Well, we were laughing, you know, when the tournament started because I was like, Conchita, I'm not sure about grass.   
She's like, C'mon, you can play good.   
She's just telling me every day, every match, Keep going, you're doing great.   Giving me power.  
   
 Q.   Did she give you any tips about the finals?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   I didn't have a chance to take the mobile yet.   For sure she will write something to me.   
   
 Q.   Have you surprised yourself at how well you've played on grass here?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Yes, I'm surprised because my two tournaments before preparation, they were not so good.   I didn't felt so good.   So to be here in the final, it's like amazing.  
   
 Q.   You're now on your longest run on grass.   Your last run was 's‑Hertogenbosch coming into today.   What has been the difference between two years ago and now?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Well, a lot of things now, I'm more a player, a tennis player (smiling), in enough aspects.   I grow so much mentally.   I'm tougher now.   Technically I also improve a lot.   I'm stronger now.   In two years you have a lot of time to improve a lot of things.   Also I learned more how to play on grass than before.   
   
 Q.   Speaking of mental toughness, the momentum seemed to shift significantly in the second set.   You got it back again.   Can you describe how you managed to regain your composure there?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Well, I think I was 6‑1, 3‑1.   I was like, What?   I was playing really good.   I was like, Okay, wait.   You're the only one that can lose this match.   
I just get really nervous.   And I think Radwanska, you know, she was waiting for this moment.   She was like, Okay, she's playing good.   I'm going to wait to see if she can handle this situation.   
She did good.   She fight.   She won the second set.   But I was, Okay, be calm.   You're playing against Agnieszka.   It's going to be a tough match.   
In the third, I could find a way, as in the first set, you know, play more aggressive, lose the fear to win the match.   
   
 Q.   Did she change the tactics on you, try to make you run more?   What did you feel she was doing differently?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Well, I think I let her do more things 'cause I went like one step behind.   I had this on my stomach.   You know, when you let the other ones play, you're going to start to run.   I think that was it.   
   
 Q.   Last year after your win against Serena in Paris, someone was asking you if you are more famous in Venezuela or Spain.   You said, I'm not famous at all.   Same question now.   
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   I don't know.   I mean, in Venezuela, I don't have how to know if people follow me because I don't go there.   
In Spain, well, you know, step by step, there's a lot of big players in Spain, especially in the men's side.   So it's hard to get through there, you know.   
   
 Q.   How would you describe Serena Williams, and what would be the challenge for you if it is Serena in the final?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   I think is the best final you can play.   You know, to have Serena in the Wimbledon final I think is the hardest match you can have.   
If you want to win a Grand Slam, when you dream, you say, I want Serena in the final.   She's like one of the best players in all these years.   So it's obviously I think the best challenge to have.  
   
 Q.   What is it about her that makes her one of the best ever in your mind?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Because she has like so many good things.   She's stronger, good mentality, good shots, power, confident.   You know, a lot of things that make her a great player.   
   
 Q.   Where have your parents been watching from?   Are you going to have to tell them to stay away now?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   I think they're watching me, I don't know, on the TV or the computer.   I'm not sure.   
They asked me two days ago, We want to come.   
I said, No.   
Don't change anything.   I brush my teeth at the same time (laughing).   I wake up with the same leg.   I'm not going to change anything.   
I'm going to talk to them now, to see if they're going to come or not.  
   
 Q.   They're in Barcelona?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   Are they going to come?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   I will see now.   We will discuss.   
   
 Q.   Can you tell us some things about yourself away from tennis that you like to do?   For example, do you like football or cooking?   
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   I like my tennis.   In a sports, not a big fan in so many other sports than tennis.   
But one of the things I like to do is to cook, sweet things, with sugar, not with salt.   Now that I'm here in Wimbledon in the house, I'm like doing the dessert sometimes.   I know it's not good for me, but it's how I like to spend time.  
   
 Q.   You talk a lot about your poker face, your need to keep a poker face.   How hard is that for you?   Why do you feel the need to keep it kind of all kept in?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Well, I think you have to be calm all the time because the other one is playing against you, so she's looking at you, seeing how you feel, you know, trying to see your weakness.   
I think it's important to be strong, you know, to be calm.   Especially because is my first time here.   Like, I don't have a lot of experience playing these kind of matches.   So, you know, I just say to myself, Be calm.   This is what's going to make you, you know, be good on the court.   Don't be afraid.   
   
 Q.   This is your first big run at Wimbledon, but you've had the big runs at the French Open.   How have those taught you about yourself and how to handle the pressure, the media pressure, and how to handle a Grand Slam coming into the later stages?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Obviously in Roland Garros, it helps me a lot, for this match, for the other match, because every time you go to the court to play these important matches, you feel, Okay, I've been here before.   I know what I have to do.   I know how should I react or what I have to think before the match.   
You learn things.   
So the most matches you play like this, then you're going to be like more, you know, I know what I have to do, so...   
   
 Q.   You're very calm in a great way in this situation.   Deep down inside, what are you trying to find?   Obviously a final is a whole different story.   What are you going to try to dig deep in and try to find that maybe you haven't had before?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   I don't know.   What?   
   
 Q.   Emotionally, what do you want to get out of yourself?   This is going to be the stage of all time for you.   
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   I'm trying, like, not to think too much.   Okay, don't think I'm in the final.   
On Sunday, I'm going to be...   
But now, I'm like, One more match.   One more match.   Don't think you're in the final Wimbledon, nothing.   So I'm, like, trying to be silly, blocking all these ideas, yeah.   
   
 Q.   You have many challenges now, even if you want to think only about Sunday.   Sanchez and Martinez winning a lot.   The top Spanish players are getting older.   Nadal, Ferrer, Robredo.   Do you see yourself in a way to be able to replace the image of all these players who may end their career while you are taking off?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   It's tough.   In the men's in Spain, is amazing right now.   You know, so many players.   We say like the gold years of the Spanish tennis.   
I think I'm doing good.   I think I have a chance.   There's also Carla from Spain.   She's top 10.   Maybe we can make the competition to the men's.   
   
 Q.   Talk a little bit about changing your tactics and game.   Obviously something Aga does well and did in that match.   Do you have a good PlanB when Plan A is not working?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   I always try to stay focused to my game because is what I do best.   This is what is going to make me win.   
But is true that with these type of players, like Aga, she is playing dropshots, slice, lobs, all the time.   So I have to be concentrate all the time in my plan and how I have to do to win the match.   
Pretty much I stay focused to my game all the time.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT