AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 24, 2015
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  G. MUGURUZA/T. Bacsinszky6-3, 4-6, 6-0An interview with:GARBINE MUGURUZATHE MODERATOR: Questions, please.Q. Not an easy match, but through three matches, how did you feel?  Are you happy with your game?GARBINE MUGURUZA: I'm really happy.  Three victories in a Grand Slam.  Last year I also achieved round of 16, so really happy.  I'm playing good tennis.  I'm doing what I work in the pre-season, so proud of how I won these three matches.Q. You had that ankle injury scare before the tournament.  Was there any question whether or not you would be fit enough to play here?GARBINE MUGURUZA: I got scared because I twist my ankle in Brisbane.  But I could play Sydney, I recovered really fast.  So never on my mind that I was not fit for here.Q. You mentioned that your last match positivity was key for you, even if there was a dip in the match.  Talk about how important that part of why your game is moving forward in the competition.GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I think the key is to be positive.  You can be playing bad or nervous, but if you're negative, for sure there is no options that you're going to win.  So I just think all the time just be positive.  You will have your chance.  Doesn't matter if you win or you lose the first, second set.  That's what I did, and good that it's on my side, the match.Q. Talk about the possibility of playing Serena.  She's up in the third set.GARBINE MUGURUZA: Just another tough match.  I already played against her two times.  Obviously in the last 16 match you have to play against amazing players.  So just another match, same game, same concentration.  Nothing new.Q. When you played her at the French Open last year, do you think you were playing your best level of tennis that day or were you playing just standard Garbine tennis?GARBINE MUGURUZA: No.  That day I played really good.  I did what me and my coach were talking to do on the match.  Everything was perfect.  That's why I could win that match.  You never have these kind of matches usually when you play perfect, so just hoping to try to do the same as today and two days ago tomorrow.  Not tomorrow, no.  The next day.  Yeah.Q. When you've beaten Serena at slam before and now you'll face her again at a slam.  How do you use that match?  Do you try and not think about it so you don't put pressure on yourself or does it give you confidence to believe that you can beat her?GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I don't need to think anything.  Eventually I will have to play against her again, so I think I don't have nothing to lose.  I don't think I have pressure.  I like to play big matches in center courts, so I'm just really happy that I can play against her or Elina.  Just looking forward to.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT