WIMBLEDON
July 6, 2015
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 G. MUGURUZA/C. Wozniacki
  6‑4, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.  
   
 Q.   At the end of the match you fell to the court in delight.   How much does this victory mean for you here at Wimbledon?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Well, it means a lot because I didn't play a lot matches in grass, so I didn't know how to, you know, kind of prepare Wimbledon.   I think it's like the third time I play.   So for me was something new.   That's why it's special.   
   
 Q.   What do you expect after playing so little on grass, not having good results previously?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Well, I don't expect anything.   I just think that before I was confused because I didn't know if my game was going to be good on grass.   Now I think grass helps me.   So I'm happy that I found out.   
   
 Q.   You have Bacsinszky next.   Talk about that match, what you expect from it.   
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   We played a very tough match in Australia this year.   She's doing great results.   
So, I don't know.   I think it's going to be another tough match.   I know how she plays.   She's very intelligent.   So just try to play like today.   
   
 Q.   What do you think you did well against Caroline today?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Well, I went very like focused and prepared because I knew that she was going to try to do a long and physical match against me.   So I think I used my opportunities of the short balls, good shots, the serve.   I think I played really good.   This helps me a lot against these types of players.  
   
 Q.   Did it help a little bit that your last match was also against the same type of player?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Yeah, is always helps.   If you play a very different match before, you're like, Oh.   Yeah, it helps.   
   
 Q.   Can you remember the first time you played on grass, where it was, and what you thought of this new surface for you?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   I think the first tournament was Birmingham.   I said, I'm never coming back here.   I was like, I cannot play on grass.   
I didn't play in Spain never.   So was very different.   I, like, couldn't run.   The bounce of the ball was weird.   
But then after few years, you see everybody feel the same.   Is just mentality.   
   
 Q.   How do you feel on the tour now?   This is your third Grand Slam quarterfinal.   Do you still feel like a bit of a rookie or do you have experience?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Well, now I have a little bit more of experience, but is true that experience helps you.   But in these types of rounds, everybody is so nervous, everybody wants to win so much.   You just have to fight against this and find your way to achieve to the final or win.   
   
 Q.   Do you know about Timea's story?   She was a waitress for a bit.   Do you know anything about that?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   I wrote something or read something in the past.   Yeah, something.   Was pretty interesting.   
   
 Q.   Do you think in general players who have these kind of difficulties have more hunger in the court and do you sense it in her play?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Yeah, she has a reason to play, when you have something like this inside.   Every time you go to the court, you want to fight and win.   It helps her, her motivation.   
   
 Q.   This tournament is unique because there's a middle Sunday.   What did you do yesterday?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Well, like all the other days when I rest, just practice, go to home, watch a movie.  
   
 Q.   What did you watch?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Hannibal Lecter.   Silence of the Lambs or something like this.   
   
 Q.   Last year when you had to make the decision between Spain and Venezuela, I know it was quite a tough decision for you.   Now that that is in the past, how much of a relief is that for you that you don't have to think about that any longer?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   It was a relief because, you know, everybody was talking and saying things that were not true.   
So when I was, like, at the end you read and listen all these messages and stories.   It was very tough, but I'm really happy of my choice.   Now I don't have to think about this.   You know, I'm really happy with my team and the people I have now around me, so...   
   
 Q.   In general do you read what people write about you and things like that?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   I try to not, obviously.   Sometimes you cannot, like, close your eyes.   But this was a very long story, the Venezuela‑Spain, one year and a half or something like this.   In the end you cannot not see it.   
   
 Q.   Your Fed Cup captain is now Davis Cup captain as well.   How do you think Conchita is going to do with the guys?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Well, I don't know.   I mean, two days ago was going to be another person, and now is Conchita.   
Well, she has experience.   That's what I can say.   I think she's going to be comfortable with the mens.   I think she feels also a little bit familiar with the men's way to play a little bit.   
It's funny when we talk about this.   I'm just happy for her.   It's a good chance to see how she manage this.   
   
 Q.   What are the best qualities of Conchita?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   The first one for me is she knows how you feel when you're on the court.   When you're nervous and you talk to her, I know, I was in your position, you have to do this, this and this.   
I'm going to say something.   She's like, I know, I've been there.   
It's good to have her there.   Every time you see like a hero on your chair, so it's good.   You feel stronger.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT