ROLAND GARROS
June 3, 2014
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







M. SHARAPOVA/G. Muguruza
      1‑6, 7‑5, 6‑1

    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please. 

Q.   Seemed to be a big experience for you.   You were very, very close.   In your own words, what happened?
    GARBINE MUGURUZA:   It was very close.   Well, it's tough now because I had the opportunity to win the match.   But in my own words, I mean, I need more experience in these kind of matches.
    I think I played very good in three sets, but in the important moments I need to improve my mentality.

Q.   How difficult is it to play her?   Because, you know, she likes to play slow; she takes time between her two serves.   Is it difficult to deal with the level of intensity she brings to the court?
    GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Well, of course Maria Sharapova is an amazing player.   She plays with a lot of intensity.   It doesn't bother me, you know.   I know her.   I know her style. 
    So I just try to focus on my game, and that's it.

Q.   In the third set it was a very long game.   Was that the turnaround?   How did you feel physically in the third set?   Was it after losing that long game mentally a letdown?
    GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Well, I remember this game.   Yeah, it was really tough to lose this game because it was really hard.
    But all the match was really tough physically and mentally.   Yeah, was tough to lose this game, but nothing special.

Q.   5‑All, second set, you're right in there, one game away from it, 30‑Love, and she comes back and wins that game.   Do you remember that as a particularly important point?
    GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Yeah, I remember these points.   But she was playing good there, at 5‑4.   And, yeah, then end of second set she played really good. 
    I was happy, you know.   I said, Okay, you did what you could, you know, and she started to play better with time and the third set she was playing much better.

Q.   You had a great Open here.   Now do you also get your cell phone back from your coach now?
    GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Ah.   Well, I have my mobile already (smiling).   What was the question? 

Q.   That was the question. 
    GARBINE MUGURUZA:   No, I have it already. 

Q.   How would you assess your whole tournament?
    GARBINE MUGURUZA:   A really good tournament.   First quarterfinals on a slam.   What can I say?   I respect that.   Yeah, I'm really happy with my game also.   I played very good in this tournament.

Q.   You are one of the most standout players this year in French Open.   Maria Sharapova said is sort of a breakthrough tournament for you.   I want to know, what do you think yourself and where you can go from here?
    GARBINE MUGURUZA:   I didn't understand.   Sorry. 

Q.   Maria Sharapova said it's sort of a breakthrough tournament for you this year, French Open.   I want to know what you think yourself and where you can go from here. 
    GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Well, I mean, I'm really happy with what I did here in Roland Garros.   I feel confident now.   You know, I believe on myself.   These matches, give you a lot of experience, so for me it's very good to see that I have the level.

Q.   It seems you have some kind of inner belief in yourself.   I mean, beating Serena, you know, on a big court, easy; today, going out there, winning the first set 6‑1 to Maria Sharapova.   Is that something you have from yourself, that belief to win against the top players?
    GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Well, I always like to play on big courts and against big players, you know.   But I think I work really hard for these moments.   Well, I just go out there and try to do my best and try to believe that you can win. 
    That's important part, you know, to believe that you can do it.

Q.   You said after beating Serena that you went out there thinking you had nothing to lose against the No. 1.   How did you feel going out against Maria today?
    GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Well, it's similar, you know.   When you go out against such a big player, you say, Okay, let's do what I have to do.   Be concentrated.   You don't have nothing to lose.
    So, yeah, it's similar to think.

Q.   You said clay is maybe your least favorite surface.   You like grass.   So now the Wimbledon is coming up.   How do you feel about going to your favorite surface?
    GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Well, I'm really happy, because it's only three weeks a year.   So now that I ‑‑I feel good.   I'm happy to go on grass to change a little bit the surface.   I'm looking forward to it.
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in Spanish. 

Q.   You started really well.   Your first set was almost perfect.   What happened after the first set?   Can you tell us why you've changed your game and your style?
    GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Well, you know, during the first set mentally I was so strong.   I thought, I'm going to win.   Then I was a bit nervous.   I saw that the opponent was nervous, as well.   I thought that she was very nervous.
    And then, little by little, when you start losing, it's a question of nerves.   Then she started playing a lot better.   We were almost on an equal footing, and then it's all these details. 
    Those details are the reason why the whole match turned around.

Q.   Would you say it's the most painful defeat for you in your life?   Because this match, during this match, you were so close. 
    GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Well, yes, and also because it was the quarterfinals.   But then, you know, I will have to draw the lessons from such a match.   That's true.   I'm a bit shocked.   It's really tough. 
    But deep within myself I know I'm very happy because I know I can win these very important matches now and that I can put a good fight against the best players.

Q.   You said that the details really counted for the turnaround in this match.   Could you give us examples of these details?
    GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Well, for instance, when it was 5‑4 during the second set, she started playing really well.   And then, I don't know.   There were a number of points.   Sometimes I made a mistake.   You know, these tiny things. 
    And then all of a sudden the second set had gone by. 
    Then during the third set she was playing so much better.   I was so close to this win during the second set, and therefore I started the third set saying, Okay, I must be well‑focused to win this match. 
    But then it didn't happen.

Q.   Well, I have the impression that you're almost crying.   Is that true?
    GARBINE MUGURUZA:   No, no, no.   Ten minutes ago, but not now.

Q.   You were up 5‑4; then what happened to you?   It was something totally new:   against Sharapova on the central court? 
    GARBINE MUGURUZA:   What was I thinking about?   Well, I was thinking, I'm going to play this match like last match and even better.   I think also I can say the same about this game.   I'm going to play this game in the best possible way.   I'm going to be very aggressive.   I want to defeat her 2 sets to 0, not anything else.

Q.   In the first set you played really well, but I also had the impression that there was like no opponent on the court.   Had someone just watched the first set, we would have thought you would win so easily.   How come?   Why were you that nervous afterwards?   It's not usually you. 
    GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Well, you know, I was very nervous, because during the first set ‑‑well, I didn't really expect such a first set.   She started playing badly, I was playing really well, so I was surprised by this. 
    And then suddenly I had the impression that it was so easy.   It was quarterfinals.   Maybe I relaxed a little and I lost my focus.
    It was something that was brand new for me.

Q.   You're not going to leave us now.   There's doubles.   I think you met Carla this morning.   Unfortunately she lost, as well.   She was defeated. 
    GARBINE MUGURUZA:   No, we have not yet met.   But when I was in the gymnasium, when I was stretching my muscles, I saw a bit of her match. 
    I thought, If she loses, it's going to be awful.   But we're going to play doubles.   It's a very important match and first time we reached quarterfinals in a Grand Slam, so we're going to focus as much as we can to see if we can reach the semis and not stop, which is the case for singles.

Q.   You have said that you need to have more experience, experience of these Grand Slams and these types of matches, so that you can be more solid mentally. 
    GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Well, you know, it's very difficult to practice that type of thing.   That is, you can't play on central court against such a powerful opponent every day. 
    But then day in, day out, I have to put in more effort, more work.   You know, it's very difficult for me to tell you how mentally I can be stronger, but next time I'll have more experience. 
    If I can again reach the quarterfinals in a Grand Slam, well, I'll try and be even more courageous to hit each point even more strongly.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT