ROLAND GARROS
June 2, 2015
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 L. SAFAROVA/G. Muguruza
  7‑6, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in Spanish.   
   
 Q.   What can you say about your match?   How do you feel?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Well, I'm not saying I'm very happy and I'm not "jumping with joy," but I'm quite happy because I fought until the very end.   But Safarova plays so well that I couldn't imagine.   It was impossible.  
I have the impression that she was running well.   Her serve was fantastic.   This time I couldn't win.  
   
 Q.   Would you say that the conditions on the court were negative or bad for you?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Well, I think the conditions are the same for both players.   She played so well.   
But it's true that it was windy, quite windy, and going in all directions.  
   
 Q.   The other day you were saying that last year against Sharapova you had learned that the point is not just to play well but also to have a steel‑like mental.   
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Well, I think last year I had the impression I had not played my best tennis; whereas this time I played my best.   It was not a mental thing this time.   
There were two key moments, you see, when I was returning the points.   And unfortunately I couldn't return the way I wanted.   The wind was blowing hard against me, and that's when she won a few points.  
But then it's also some details from the tennis point of view today.   It had nothing to do with my mental condition.  
   
 Q.   What are the things you will take home from this Roland Garros tournament?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Well, I'm very happy.   When I started I was a bit stressed.   I didn't really know what to expect.   But I'm very happy.   I'm   very happy because these are my best results.   
I would have liked to go deeper in the tournament, but now I have managed to overcome the stress I had during the first two rounds.   I'm quite happy.  
   
 Q.   Well, the fact that she's a lefty, is this something that had an impact on you?   What about the impact of her being a lefty on the whole match?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Well, I think that Kerber hits flat.   She's a lefty, as well.   And Safarova was not serving that quickly, but there was a slight spin in her shots that puzzled me a little.   Plus the wind.   
And it's not comfortable to play against a lefty, that's true.   You have to adapt your game.   You have to keep your focus. So there are shots, and the spin she puts on her shots is quite amazing.  
   
 Q.   I suppose you're going to leave the tournament being rather satisfied, which is what you said, but then Halep and Sharapova are out, and therefore the draw is much more open.   What do you think about this?   Is this not getting on your nerves?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   No, no.   Some of the big names have left already, but there are exceptional players, like Safarova, that are still there.   
Well, when the big names go away it's one thing, but if the others stay, it's because they play well.   So it doesn't matter at all.  
   
 Q.   Now, maybe you will not want to answer this question but if you don't, it doesn't matter.   Will you watch this match tomorrow, that is, Rafa against Novak?   Rafa was saying it was not "the" match of the year, but what do you think about this, please?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Well, of course it's an important match, and it's a match which I would very much like to watch.   Everybody will go and try and watch the match to see if Rafa wins or loses.  
Some say that this is like a final but before the real final.   I don't know.   I think that all the players that are still playing are really fit.   I'm going to watch it.   I know it's very important for Rafa, but it's also very important for Novak.  
So we'll see what they do with it and how they manage this match.   
   
 Q.   Sorry for perhaps talking about this again.   Coming back to this loss, is it this one that's bitter or the one last year Sharapova?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Well, both.   Both at the same level.   Last year when I was defeated, it was ‑‑I don't know.   Something that made me feel frustrated because I was really close to winning, yet I was not fully aware of the fact that I had reached quarterfinals.  
I was not really aware of it; whereas this year I'll leave happy, which is what I have said several times already.   Safarova has won.   She's played really well.   Her level is excellent.   Well, my level is good, as well.   
Well, you know, if you have to lose, lose against those who play excellent tennis.   So no problem today for me.   
   
 Q.   Well, you told Safarova that you hope she's going to win the tournament.   Do you think that she can win the tournament here?   
GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Well, I think if she continues at this level I think she has chances to win.   She's going to play Ivanovic, and then it's going to be against Serena probably.   
But I think, yes, she's one of the top players.   Of course she can seize this opportunity.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT