AUSTRALIAN OPEN
February 1, 2020
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. KENIN/G. Muguruza
4-6, 6-2,6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How pivotal did the fifth game in the third set feel when you had Love-40?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yeah, was a very important moment of the match. I think she found very, very good shots during the match. Especially in the important moments, I think she came out with winners and just hitting the ball very good.
Q. How do you feel you played tonight? What did you think didn't work for you?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I mean, I'm not very happy about my performance. I think I had to play better today because she came up with a great level. I think at the important moments I didn't find my shots. I think she found her shots, I didn't found my shots.
I did fail a little bit lack of energy after so many matches. Physically was a tough battle out there. So, you know, it's just a tough moment. Right now it's tough to be happy, although it has been an incredible tournament. You lose a final, but you got to make it to the final to be able to win or lose.
Yeah, I think she played very well.
Q. You had some emotions as you were starting your speech. You've been holding your emotions a lot it seems like during this tournament. Now that everything is over, what were you feeling?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I was holding a lot out there, too. I mean, they make you speak in a moment where you just lose a tough match.
I try to have a good perspective and not be too dramatic. Okay, you lost the match, was important one. But, hey, I'm here. I gave myself a chance to be in a final. You realize that, and you calm down a little bit.
Q. What does the fact that you made it back to a Grand Slam final say to you going forward?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I think I'm in a good process. I think I felt my game much better than before. I think I got to keep it that way, keep working physically. These events are really long, so you got to be strong.
But just keep improving and being able to go far in the tournaments because then is when you face these top players. You get a feel of where your game has to go, what do I have to improve. These are the matches that really give you information.
Q. Sofia has a lot of relentless energy. Even between points she's constantly moving. What is it like to be out facing that kind of player?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I didn't really look too much today to my opponent. She's energetic. I think I had enough with my side.
Q. Did she do anything out there that surprised you in terms of how she handled some of the big moments?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I think the way she handled the breakpoints and the game points, these kind of moments, I think she came out doing winners, which is a tough moment. I think she played very well. I think it's her first Grand Slam final for her and she performed really well.
Q. Obviously this was your fourth Grand Slam final. How did you feel today heading into the match compared to your previous ones?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I mean, very different. Like every player, you're nervous because it's a very important match. I felt pretty good before the match, excited to really go out there. I really like the center court. The crowd makes it cool also.
But, yeah, just feeling like my body was feeling the two weeks, that's for sure.
Q. Do you see Sofia going on to win more Grand Slam titles after this?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: If she keeps playing like this, she prove us that she can play very well, play very well in the important moments, which is different story. I think it's even more special.
I think so.
Q. A lot of people are telling me this week they're excited to see you were back. Do you feel like you're back?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Back? Hmm, okay. If people see it because I'm in a Grand Slam final, that makes sense. But I feel like I was playing a lot of tournaments. I was on the tour, guys. I didn't disappear. I was there. Not reaching final rounds, for sure.
Happy, it's a good start of the year, that's for sure.
Q. Has the tournament given you added belief that you can win a hard court slam?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yeah. I think hard court, everything gets more equal. I think you have less chances to use the court for an advantage. Like clay court and grass court gives you a little bit things.
Yeah, definitely happy to see myself playing a final in hard courts.
Q. If we forget about the fact that you're back or not, in your mind how do you describe this arc for you? Are you able to put the last two years behind you?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yeah, I mean, I don't think at all about the previous years - even the good ones or the bad ones. I feel like, What for? I got the best out of it, good or bad. I just started a new year. I have a new team. That's it. I am.
Q. You called the trainer at one point. Were you fit and healthy right way through the match?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I was feeling my body a little bit. But it's normal I think after so many matches, tough matches. Also this match was a lot of rallies, a lot of running.
Yeah, at some point I was feeling my body.
Q. You always say you love the big stage. Do you feel now you have the hunger to focus on the tour throughout the year, get that consistency you have had?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I think it's a great start of the year, for sure. It's going to give me a lot of information about where I am right now.
I don't think all the time about consistency. It's something very important. I'm just going to a tournament, see how far I can go. I get very motivated also in the Grand Slams because that's where you get very excited.
I don't analyze too much. Really, start of the year, first day I was almost in the locker room. I lost first set in, like, 10 minutes. I also have to don't be too bad on myself, and value that it paid off.
Q. Were you expecting her to get nervous at some point?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I mean, I was nervous when I played my first Grand Slam final. I think she hold pretty good her emotions. The last set in the tough moments she came out with very good shots. I didn't feel like her hand was tough there.
Q. Maybe it's not the right night to ask you, but are we going to see you again smiling and being cheerful as you have been always two years ago? We remember your press conferences were always cheerful and nice to follow. Tonight you can be sad. In general I saw you changing a little bit recently. Am I wrong?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: No, I don't think wrong. I think just right now it's tough to have a big smile, though I'm smiling inside.
I'm just taking it easy after these two years. The media has been tough on me, I have to say. I don't read a lot of things, but I really felt that people...
Today people will say very good things about me, and the next week bad things if you lose. I kind of found myself less excited, less excited with how things work.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT