AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 30, 2020
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








G. MUGURUZA/S. Halep
7-6, 7-5
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How would you describe your fight in the match today and your overall fight to get back to this moment: a Grand Slam final?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Was a tough journey. Not every day you are going to play a final of a Grand Slam. I think it's something very unique.
I had a tough opponent. I knew it was going to be a tough semifinals against Simona. She's a very good player. Every time we played, it was very physical, long matches. I knew it was going to be a very hot day.
Yeah, the conditions were tough out there.
Q. It was 4.9 on the scale before the match started at 5.0, the roof would be closed. Were you hoping the roof would be closed?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I didn't think too much about it. I asked if it was opened or closed. They told me it's not enough to close it. I'm like, Okay, well... I'm going to have to suffer out there. It's going to be for both of us.
Yeah, didn't thought too much about it. It's not in my power.
Q. Through the tiebreak in the first set, a lot of momentum shifts, can you talk through just what was going on in your mind as that tiebreak was unfolding? It was nip-and-tuck.
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yeah, you didn't know who was going to win that first set. I think we both had set points. I mean, again, I knew was going to be a hard match.
The first set was very long, so I knew it was going to be key to the match because of the circumstances and the weather and everything.
Just hang in there and whoever was going to be stronger was going to get it. I was happy that I stay solid there, took my chances at the end.
Q. You are the first unseeded player to make the finals since 2010. Seems like you've thrived in an underdog role. Is that true? How have you operated coming from that vantage point?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Hmm, well, it's difficult. You never know who you're going to face right away, not being seeded.
I didn't thought about it too much. I knew whatever match, it was going to be tough, even how I started the tournament not feeling well.
Yeah, I mean, I'm happy to not be in the spotlight. It's good. I'm going to go play, doesn't matter who. Yeah, just using that.
Q. How good are you feeling about your tennis right now?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Feeling good. I think I played many top-10 players in a row, got the victories. Definitely it's a sign that my tennis is good there.
Excited to have one more match here, and hopefully get it.
Q. You know who you're playing now in the finals, Sofia. How do you feel she's progressed through the tournament?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I think she's playing great. I think since a while she's just progressing up in the rankings and in the results. So I think she deserves to be in the final with the tennis she has been showing.
Yeah, good win against Barty. It's going to be a final.
Q. What is the difference in getting a tight win like you did today? Last year, sort of these tight matches, tight sets, might go against you. It seemed like today you weren't going to let that happen.
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yeah, I mean, it's tough to say really what's the little difference. I guess maybe structuring better the points, using more my weapons. It's literally, like, half second or one shot the difference.
It's very delicate. It's also a lot about confidence, the way you're playing. Yeah, just a mix of that.
Q. Your previous match against Sofia in Beijing, what do you remember about that match?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yeah, it wasn't a very good match from my side. I think she played good. It was the first time we played, so it was good to have that match as a reference.
I mean, is going to be a hard match. Is the final of a Grand Slam. Doesn't matter who is your opponent.
Q. How would you compare Kenin's on-court presence to yours?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I don't know really. I think she has her style of preparing herself. I have mine. I think every player has their own style of game that also matches the game style, I think.
Yeah, I don't really look too much into that.
Q. Will you do anything differently over the next two days or will you keep it pretty consistent like you've been doing?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I mean, there's no point to change now anything. When things are working, you try to stick with what you're doing. It's not that I'm doing... Very concentrated in the tournament. You don't have a lot of time.
After here, you have plenty of time to do everything you couldn't. For now, stick to competition mode.
Q. On match point, it was a very understated fist pump to the team, walk to the net. Seems like you're on a mission. Is that how it feels for you? If so, what is that mission?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Hmm, well, definitely the mission is to get away from here with a big trophy.
But big or small celebration, it's incredible achievement. It really depends of how you're feeling. I believe in myself that I have what it takes to play these kind of matches and to be in this stage.
You try to just keep it calm. There's many more matches to go. I'm sure the right moment there's going to be a big celebration. For now, it's keep it calm.
Q. Considering this is your fourth Grand Slam final, do you think it's going to be a factor having more experience than Kenin? How will you try to use that experience?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I think it has an experience because it's something that not a lot of players can feel it. But at the end the racquet has to speak out there. Doesn't matter how many Grand Slams you have. It's a tennis match. Even if you have 15 Grand Slams, you go out there and you have somebody that can beat you.
I'll take into consideration my previous experiences, but doesn't guarantee anything.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT