AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 23, 2020
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








G. MUGURUZA/A. Tomljanovic
6-3, 3-6, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Obviously she pushed you really hard. I'm just wondering, how do you feel about how you were able to stick with her and finish it in three?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yeah, I mean, I was expecting a tough match, because we played before and I saw she was having good matches. So I was ready for a battle.
Yeah, she did push me and I pushed her. At the end on the third set, it was very close for both of us. Just happy the way I played and how I managed to close it up on those, in those final games.
Q. I just wanted to ask you about your Kilimanjaro experience. First of all, what was the most difficult or perhaps scary part of that trip? Was there anything from that journey that you can take into your tennis season at all?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yeah, I mean, it was a very hard challenge, completely different of what I do. You're climbing that mountain and it's only you. You don't get any award, any prize, any photo, any nothing up there.
It's really challenging you physically and mentally to be there, and I was just looking for something fun, different experience outside from tennis.
Tennis, you know, we're here the whole year, and just to get out a little bit and, yeah, do something different. I had no idea about it, because I have never done anything similar before.
I really like the experience to see myself in the middle of nowhere and, yeah, just having one clear thought just to keep climbing.
Q. Has that helped you at the start of this season, do you think?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I mean, sure. It's a tough experience and you learn a little bit about you, how you handle it there, the mental strength, and physically also, you know, it's a little bit of a workout.
I mean, it wasn't, in my mind, it wasn't related to tennis. I just wanted to have different experience, because I do want to do many things besides playing. So if I had the chance, I will go into it.
Q. What's your next challenge outside of tennis?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I don't know right now. I mean, for over a year I have been thinking to do it. I did it, and I gotta keep -- I got a little bit of how I feel. It must be the right moment, have the time and all of that.
Yeah, I'm sure I will do something next time, as well.
Q. As you mentioned the challenge like that, you can learn a lot about yourself. I'm curious, what do you think you learned about yourself from that experience?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, never been in this conditions before, because I'm not a very -- I don't love a lot snow and the cold. I did struggle there a lot with my, you know, my team and climbing and being below zero and at night.
You know, all of these things that, you know, at some point you're, like, Okay, what am I doing here? It's really tough.
I was happy to go through -- you know, I went everything, with everything in mind. Like, Okay, I'm going. I don't know how I'm going to come back or whatever. But I didn't care, really.
For me, that's a very good feeling and a very good adrenaline that I'm a little bit addict (smiling).
Yeah, I had fun also with my friends.
Q. You had a huge smile on your face after match point. I wonder if it was because you found back some feeling inside that maybe you were searching for in the past season? Have you found that vintage Garbiñe was back on this match?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: No, I think that I was happy that when you win a battle, it was very close at the end, so I was happy to get the win.
You know, like everybody, you work hard. You put the hours there. When you win the match, you know, nothing is guaranteed, so you really appreciate the moment.
Really quickly, you start thinking about, you know, I have got another match coming up, but, you know, I'm happy to win matches like this where there's stuff and you've got to hang in there and, you know, you get out with a smile.
Q. Kilimanjaro, why that particular mountain? There is lots of mountains around the world. Have you got a history of climbing?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I wanted to have a challenge, a reachable challenge, because if I pick another one, I put myself in a very, very risky situation. So I spoke with people. I think it was enough challenge to come back (smiling).
But it was a very good experience. Hopefully I can talk more about it later in the year, but for me, it was great to do it.
Q. You won 24 of 28 points at the net today. Curious how conscious were you of that, and is that something you're trying to do more?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I mean, I feel like it always has been part of my game, to be aggressive, to go forward. I mean, no hesitation.
Today I had my opportunities. Yeah, I had a good percentage. Sometimes it's not like that, but, yeah, I just took my chances going forward.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT