US OPEN
August 27, 2019
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. RISKE/G. Muguruza
2-6, 6-1, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You were so in control and a great first set. What do you think changed after that to kind of skew things your way?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, I think she leveled a lot her game. In the first set I did play well. She did few mistakes that I, you know, got the opportunity and I went for. It was very competitive. Every game we had breakpoints and then we were breaking a lot each serves. She found very good shots, second and third set, a lot of lines.
We always have tough matches, and I think she's playing great now.
Q. Where do you kind of assess where your game is right now? It's two tough draws in both this tournament and then Cincinnati, playing Madison. Played pretty well in pockets. Where are things for you right now?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I did have tough draws, tough first rounds. I don't look that far. Obviously the first rounds were very competitive, very close in both matches. At the end I didn't got the match probably because I don't have many matches on the belt yet. I think putting myself in those situations, sooner or later I'm going to go through. But I'm not so far. These players are playing very good.
Q. Do you feel the whole sport just getting deeper and deeper in terms of how many people are threats and make it harder to stay up?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Yeah, I mean, before, I remember not even that long ago, a few years ago, it was different. You know, you had a difference between the top players and little not top players. Now you feel like if you're not 100% every day you have matches -- like today, you know, opponents are play just great.
Yeah, it's much more equal, definitely.
Q. Just looking forward to the remainder of the season, can you give kind of an update on coaching situation, what you hope to kind of do over the next few months in terms of that and for the rest of the year through China and Asia? Do you plan to play a full schedule? What are the goals for the rest of the season?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Yeah, so far I'm looking forward to go to Asia, play more tournaments, put myself in competitive matches. There is no rush for me on the coaching side. I'm just trying to go through, trying to, yeah, to be prepared for tough moments and that's pretty much it.
Q. In 2014 was the first time back to back you lost in the first round, Wimbledon and the US Open. It's happened again. I know it's very difficult to compare because you are now multiple Grand Slam champion. At that time if you think back what was the recipe? Because the next three years you played three Grand Slam finals, won two. So probably the next couple of years going to be, you can use this recipe?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: If I would know the recipe, believe me, I would do it all the time (smiling).
I did perform very high level of tennis. It's very difficult to perform that. And like we were talking before, I feel like now everybody is playing great. You know, I feel like I come to the US Open and you feel all the girls can win and they're playing incredible. Everybody is a threat.
Yeah, I mean, that's really the difference now.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT