MIAMI OPEN PRESENTED BY ITAú
March 26, 2021
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  G. MUGURUZA/X. Wang
 6-4, 6-1
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. This is your 19th win of the season.  What are you most proud of your effort today?  What stood out for you?
 GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Well, I was actually, you know, looking forward to play and also quite nervous, because this is a tournament that I love.  After, you know, playing well in the Middle East swing, I just wanted to keep the same energy and the same quality of tennis.
 I was kind of nervous out there.  It was actually very windy, so that makes it very tricky.
 Yeah, and just excited, first round, you just want to go out there and play well.  I have been training for quite some days trying to prepare as much as I could.  Also playing a little bit an unknown player, you know, you never know, as well.
 Just happy that I could, you know, get a win over a first tricky match, round.
 Q. I just wanted to ask you about your opponent today, Xinyu Wang.  What did you think of her game?  Can you speak about the quality of the teenagers that are playing in the draw this year as well as on tour?
 GARBINE MUGURUZA:   I mean, I think she's a great hitter.  She has so much strength.  You know, great shots.  Definitely very tricky the first set.  I had some few set points early and I couldn't convert them.
 I mean, when you play somebody that plays so aggressive, it's hard to do much.  You know, you have to wait for your opportunity.  She played some incredible points.  She also gave me some free points, so that helped me out to, you know, to stay on the score.
 I think there is so many players that are unknown to me, and that means that there is a next generation of young and powerful players coming up.
 Q. Any advantage to being, you know, a first on, first off today?  You've got the rest of your day off now that you've gotten your match in?
 GARBINE MUGURUZA:   Yeah.  I mean, there is always the good side and the bad side of playing first match.  I actually like it to control the time I'm gonna start the match, the time more or less I'm going to be over.
 It is true that you have to wake up early and your body is not as awake as playing a night match, but I kind of like it.  Wake up.  Do your match.  Then you have time to rest and to think about something else.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT