ROLAND GARROS
May 31, 2019
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








G. MUGURUZA/E. Svitolina
6-3, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. She's been a tough opponent for you before, so you must be very pleased?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yeah, I am very pleased about this match.  We played many times, and the last times she has beaten me.  So I was looking forward for another match, another match against a top player.
Yeah, very happy about the win.
Q. You're now 27-5 lifetime here at Roland Garros.  Can you just tell us a little bit about what it is when you get here?  Why are you able to always play so well in this place?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I feel very good in this tournament.  I have always loved it since I was a little girl.  I also love the clay court.  Yeah, I don't know what is about French Open that gives me always, like, a nice mood and my tennis develops much better.
Q. Every win is a good win here at Roland Garros, but when you beat another top player, does that feel more special to you?  Does that type of win have more significance in the early rounds?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yeah.  I mean, playing top players is always a challenge.  I would say that every match here is a challenge, as well.
But, yeah, you can obviously tell that a top player is always a tricky match.  I was happy to face it some people say early.  I think third round is a pretty good round.  Yeah, I would like to play as many matches like that.  That's going to give me a lot of confidence and a lot of meaning.
Q. You could potentially face Sloane Stephens in your next match.  Wonder if you could give me a breakdown of what the challenges will be facing her?  I guess you guys split your two previous meetings?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yeah, I think she's playing good.  She did final last year here, so obviously she likes to play here.  She likes the clay court.  So if I play against her, it will be another good match.
Q. Results have been a bit up and down in the last year.  Can you tell us how you feel about your tennis?  At what point are you in trying to get back to the level that you were when you won this tournament and Wimbledon?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Hmm.  Yeah, I'm working hard to find those results.  I think, I mean, the way I'm working hard, like everybody else probably, trying to keep my level.  I don't try to compare, but I have a very clear purpose in my mind that I'm trying to follow it, to chase it, to improve, to hold the trophies, and being patient, it's key for that.
Q. The crowd sounded pleasantly surprised by the level of your French.  When did you learn French?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yeah, well, I did a little in secret.  No, just kidding (smiling).
Well, I have been living already for almost four years in Switzerland in the French part, and I have, for a long time also, have on my team my trainer, is French, and my coach, as well.  So I guess it's now or never (smiling).
Yeah, I'm putting the work in, and obviously I have a chance to speak here.  I don't want to miss it.
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Spanish.
Q. I don't know what was your plan in the beginning.  You lost two or three serves, but it seems that you were giving the pace to the match.
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, this is always the idea.  I have an aggressive type of game.  At the beginning, we fought, and I managed to hold my serve and to get the first set.  I managed to dominate and play cleverly, and that gave results.
Q. How do you feel as far as confidence is concerned at this level?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: In a match like this, all points are important.  It's important to have good feelings, good sensations, to have good tennis and good confidence.  Well, I wish I had the type of confidence you think I have.
Q. Are you close to being in the mood that you usually have in a great tournament when things go well?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: No, I can't compare and say I'm like I was such-and-such here.  I try to work hard.  I try to approach each match like a final.
I like being here.  I'm giving the best I have.  I don't like to compare, because I think this kind of thing hurts a lot.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT