ROLAND GARROS
May 29, 2019
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








G. MUGURUZA/J. Larsson
6-4, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. Would you like to start by giving us your thoughts on your performance today on how you felt on the court?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Yeah.  I think it was a better match than the first one.  I think we had some great rallies.  Johanna is an opponent that I have never faced before.  So I was looking forward for that.
Yeah, I could control a little bit more my nerves this match.  Yeah, pretty good one.
Q. Can you just please look ahead to your third-round match, which is probably going to be very tough against Svitolina?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Yeah, I think it's a great third round for both of us.  Well, personally, it's the type of matches that I want to play.  It can be, you know, any deep-round match, but it's in the third round.  So it's going to be a good one.
Q. You said you could control your nerves a bit more.  For those of us who see you play all these major tournaments, describe what it is that makes you so nervous at tournaments you know?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Yeah, it's a tournament that I have played many times.  I could feel more the nerves in the first round, yeah, because it was the first match.  So obviously going through that tough first round, having extra days to practice, gives you a little bit more of preparation.
And today, yeah, I started playing well.  And, yeah, I felt a little bit more calm, in general.
Q. You actually played Elina in qualifications here in 2012.  Could you tell us what you remember of that, if anything?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Yeah, I don't remember anything about it (smiling).  Yeah, I played her so many times before, and, yeah, I have played her many times in the previous years, but that particular year was a very long time ago.
I don't know if we were, like, juniors, but it was -- yeah, I feel like in a different stage.  So I think now it's different, and I could watch more and pay attention to our last matches rather than those 2012 quallies.
Q. We know you have a great competitive spirit.  In order to give yourself the best chance to win here at Roland Garros, do you feel like you need to play your best tennis, or can you find another way to win?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: No, I think there is not another way.  I feel like in the field right now in the women's game, it's very tough.  If you don't play well you go home very fast.  So I think that you've got to be competitive and on top of that play your A game all the time.  Every day I'm trying to do that.
Q. Are there any memories that you draw on from your previous times at Roland Garros that help you when you are competing this year?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I think every year that I played here, it's helping me.  It's experience, you know, an accumulation of matches, in every court, of course, lifting the trophy and knowing that I can play well here, putting things together.  Yeah, it's always good to have that confidence.
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Spanish.
Q. Do you think that you played one of your best matches for some time?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I don't know.  I haven't asked myself this question.  I went on the court.  I played.  I had two days of preparation.
I really wanted to continue the adventure.  Sometimes I played very well.  Sometimes the match was very tough, very tight.  But I'm very happy that I won today.
Q. You paid attention to control your shots because you made very few mistakes, also with very deep shots?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I tried to build points a bit more instead of hitting very hard and trying to get a winner.  And then I had to adapt my game to the clay, because you have to adapt.  You have to build your points a bit more.
I also used more topspin, and I tried to be more patient.
Q. Svitolina is a great player and is coming too soon in your draw.  What do you think?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Maybe it's a bit too early, but too bad.  It will be very interesting match to play.
I think it's an excellent and interesting third round.  Last time we played was in Dubai.  It was sometime ago.  We played excellent matches, long rallies, and very different matches.  It's going to be interesting.
Q. You are 1-6 against her in face to face or head to head.  What weapons do you think you can use to counter Svitolina?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: 1-6?  I'm not sure.  Anyway, I'll try to play my game.  I'm highly motivated because she's one of the top players right now.
Q. You're starting to find the right sensations and feelings that you had when you won the tournament?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I don't know.  When I won here, I don't remember exactly, but today I'm feeling very well.  I'm not asking myself the question about the feelings I had when I won here.  I'm not trying to compare to that year.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT