BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 13, 2019
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








B. ANDREESCU/G. Muguruza
6-0, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Obviously it wasn't the result you wanted.  What do you think was making the difference out there for her?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, I think she played very good since the first ball.  She looked very fresh and very confident.
I think today my level wasn't as good as the previous days, obviously.  Yeah, I struggled to find a way to turn things around, because she was keeping her high level all the time.
Q. Anything in her game that was particularly difficult?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, I think she was just hitting great shots.  The serve was good, too.  Yeah, leading a lot with the forehand.
Yeah, I didn't know a lot about her, but she's playing very well.
Q. It was the third game, 40-Love, if you got to 2-1, could have changed things?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Yeah, it was an important game.  Yeah, wasn't really going my way today.
Q. You have never played her before, but obviously this tournament she's been having some great results.  How aware of her were you before and did you watch any of her matches before?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Yes, I did watch, and I think she's playing better and better.  Today she even played better, I think.  I would look forward for the next match how I'm going to play against her.
Q. What positives do you take from this week?  Aside from this result, it's been a good week for you.
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Yeah, this match, of course, I'm going to think about it and I'm going to study how to do better.
But besides that, I think it's a very good tournament for me.  I felt good here, played good matches, gave me good matches, too.  I'm leaving here with good energy.
Q. What was Sam trying to change in your game or help you with?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Yeah, I was trying to disturb her somehow, take the lead, try to command, as well.
Yeah, I felt like every time I was trying something different she was coming up with better shots.  She didn't let me come close enough in the score.
Q. What do the next few days look like for you?  Are you going straight to Miami or will you stay around a little?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I don't know yet.  I have to think about it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT