AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 25, 2020
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
G. MUGURUZA/E. Svitolina   
6-1, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Compared to when you won Wimbledon, how would you compare your form now?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I don't even remember how was in Wimbledon. A lot of things have happened. I try never to compare myself when I achieve a good result or something because every year, match, everything changes.   
I just feel good out there. I think it was a good match from my side. I'm just taking that. I don't want to think about how did I play two years ago or none of that.   
 Q.  Did you feel in the warmup, waking up today, everything coming off your racquet quite cleanly...  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I was very looking forward to play against her. We always have good matches. Last year we played almost three times, something like that. So I was really looking forward to play her in hard courts.   
Yeah, I think I had a good game plan. It worked pretty quickly on my side.   
 Q.  Obviously you started the tournament under the weather, had to fight through that match against Shelby. How has the physical recovery been? Do you feel you're physically at 100%?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I definitely feel better. When I started, I didn't know how was I going to feel playing the match. It gives me 48 hours each victory, so I really take that in consideration.   
Yeah, my voice has changed. It's much better. Yeah, I do feel better than when I started.   
 Q.  What does it mean to you to be able to put together this string of performances, fight through some adversity to get into the second week? How much more confidence do you feel given what happened in Shenzhen and Hobart?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yeah, I mean, I'm looking forward to play as many matches as possible. I did play Shenzhen and in Hobart. I tried to play as many tournaments as I could.   
It's definitely a good sign for me when you don't feel good and you manage to win matches and compete. Even if you're not feeling great, there's always a chance there. You just have to find your way.   
I'm pleased with my fighting spirit and accepting many situations that are not on your side sometimes.   
 Q.  Did it ever occur to you in the Shelby match to retire?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I went on court and I didn't want to retire at all. I knew I wasn't going to feel great, but I knew that I have some tennis. I feel like, okay, might not feel 100%, but I can do different, try to win the match.   
I didn't thought about it. I just called the trainer to see if I could have some help.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT