AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 21, 2020
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
G. MUGURUZA/S. Rogers   
0-6, 6-1, 6-0   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How are you feeling? It sounded like you were ill in Hobart. A little bit tough today?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I'm feeling a little bit better than Hobart. But the last days has been quite difficult since I haven't played a lot. I was just focusing on recovering. I didn't had that much days.   
Today out there, well, it was a very tough performance because I wasn't feeling at my best at all. But at the end I could manage to give my fight. Happy that I came back with that tough first set.   
 Q.  What were you telling yourself at 5-Love, calling the trainer, after dropping the first set, that allowed you to turn it around?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: It was tough moment because, you know, she was playing great. When you're not feeling well, you sometimes don't know how to turn things around.   
You know, I said to myself, Hey, you're here, you're on the court, you're playing Australian Open, it's a special moment, so just hang in there and keep fighting. At least she has to play very good the entire match.   
I stayed behind her. You know, today I won the battle.   
 Q.  Talk a little bit about how you've been feeling in terms of your tennis to start the season. It seemed like you had a very good off-season, maybe a little bit of bad luck in the first two weeks with health. In terms of your form, how are you feeling?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I mean, like everybody, I did a very good preparation. I put the work. Yeah, it's unfortunate that you get sick, traveling in airplanes, changing countries and stuff, it's tough.   
But so far, good. I'm happy with the team that I have, happy with the work that I've been doing. You know, starting fresh and just excited about this year.   
 Q.  How would you describe your last two years?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Hmm... Tough, I think tough years. I don't think it was bad years, but definitely not as good as the ones that I had before.   
But I don't try to compare. Obviously they're not bad when I'm finish 15 or 20 or 30 or whatever. I think it's not bad.   
Of course, I wanted to be better. Just good lesson. I took out good things. Just trying to shift that again to better years.   
 Q.  What has the vibe been like now having Conchita around? How different did it feel? How different do you feel in terms of having her as the main voice in your ear?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I think it's very nice. We've known each other for so many years. We get along since the first day we met.   
We've had successful experiences before together, also working with her and as a Fed Cup captain. Of course, there's no guarantees. Nobody's magical. I think the secret is put the work, hang in there, fight hard.   
So far I'm trying to put that together.   
 Q.  I think at Wimbledon when you had won, you said that kind of having her around, it was very positive. You were cooking at home, having barbecues, it was a very relaxed vibe. Is that a similar vibe now that she's more of a full-time coach for you?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: No, it's not the same feeling. Now she's a full-time coach. Before she was helping me out during that week. Well, it was a very successful week. But she wasn't the main coach.   
But for sure we get along very good. I think when you have this complicity, coach-player, it's very important. I always try to look that with people who is in my team.   
So far good.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT