ROLAND GARROS
May 26, 2019
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
G. MUGURUZA/T. Townsend   
5-7, 6-2, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  Quite a challenge to begin with with Taylor taking the first set.  Can you just talk us through how you felt the match went from there?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I knew it was going to be a challenge no matter who my opponent was.  We always know that the first rounds are difficult.  It's the first match of a Grand Slam, it's a little adventure.  Also playing Taylor, she had a different style of game, a very lefty player.  Super talented.  So it took me a while to feel better in the court, to get the rhythm, to, yeah, to have a game plan.   
It was a tough match.  I'm happy to go through.   
 Q.  What does it feel to be the first winner on this new court?  How do you find this court?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yeah, Marion asked me in the court, and it's actually cool to be the first player in it.  I have been training the last week -- this week, actually, on it for a couple of days.  I liked it.  It's a very cute court.  It's not small, but it's, you know, cozy.   
 Q.  After that first set, it seemed like you made a few adjustments in terms of how your game planning against her.  Can you talk through that a little bit?  Was it more the decision to go through the court?  Yeah, if you could just talk about that.  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yeah, I think I wasn't having the right game plan in the first set.  Also, I was trying to play for the first time a new player.  We have never faced each other.   
So I think she managed to get the first set, and immediately I realized that, okay, I've got to do something different to turn things around.  Yeah, a little bit going more forward, you know, playing longer points.   
So one thing and another one.  I started to feel better in the court and getting my rhythm.   
 Q.  How does it feel kind of coming back, obviously now getting this opening win, which I know always is the toughest win at the slams for a lot of the top players, to just get this win under your belt?  Did you feel the vibes of being back here, being back at a slam that probably you're the most successful at?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yes and no.  Of course it's a great, it's a great match, great win.  Like you say, the first matches aren't easy.  Is only one match at the end of the day also.  There is many more matches to go.  But for sure it's a great relief to be in the second round.   
 Q.  You have won at Roland Garros in the past, and you have a good record here.  What does it take to be a champion at Roland Garros?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Good question.   
What does it take?  Obviously a very complete player.  I think to win a Grand Slam you don't only have to play beautiful and, you know, have great shots.  It's a combination of having the X factor, because, you know, everybody plays well, but only few can win Grand Slams.   
Yeah, I think a very complete player, having the courage, having the consistency of winning many matches, dealing with the pressure of, you know, being in a Grand Slam and advancing.   
It's a puzzle that you've got to put together, and it's not easy.   
 Q.  Can you say that maybe it's one of your favorite courts?  Roland Garros?  Can you rank the court here, favorite one?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Here?   
 Q.  Yes.  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I think my favorite will be Chatrier, because, you know, I have, every time I go there, I have, you know, my skin turns like chicken skin because I have beautiful memories.   
But after that, before was Court 1, the little circle.  So I think now Simonne Mathieu is going to be my second option, because it's cute court.  It's in a very different place.  You don't feel like, you know, you are around court.  It's like in a garden.  It's a different feeling.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Spanish.   
 Q.  Tell us how you felt during this first day, the court, and maybe the match was a bit more difficult than what you thought?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yes, it was a difficult day.  Of course I'm really satisfied that I won, but it was a difficult match.  I didn't know this player.  I studied her.  She has a different game.   
I had difficulty in finding my rhythm in the first set.  Also, I was a bit nervous.  The first set was a bit difficult.   
After this moment, I improved my game, and I played more intelligently, I would say.   
 Q.  You have won in the past here, and you didn't have so much pressure this year?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, yes, I felt more at ease than last year, because I'm not really fighting for my title.  That's true.   
But it's not always easy to start a tournament.  I try to go as far as possible.  We always have a lot of pressure.  But I don't ask myself the question all the time.  Sometimes in the past I was focusing too much on these aspects that were putting pressure on me.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT