MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 5, 2019
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
P. MARTIC/G. Muguruza.   
7-5, 7-6.   
THE MODERATOR: First question in Spanish.   
 Q.  Hello, can you talk a bit about the match, your feelings after the loss?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I think it's been a good match.  I think both of us are playing at a good level.  I think I've had a lot of chances in the first set and the second set.  I have to be more wise, more intelligent playing.   
I think that I have committed a couple of errors and she took advantage of those errors and she was able to come back in the second set and win it.  It is true I've had a lot of chances.   
 Q.  I don't know if this breaks your plans in the build-up to Roland Garros.  Will it change anything?  What are your plans right now?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yes, a little bit, I was planning on getting deeper in this tournament.  It is my first match on clay and that is what I will take with me.  I will keep on fighting to Rome, Roland Garros.  It is just a tournament.  It is very important, but it's just a tournament.  Next week I have another one.   
I'll try to have a look at today's match and look at what I can change and what I can do better.   
 Q.  You were saying that maybe sometimes in Madrid you have a lot of pressure on your shoulders.  Do you think this happened this year?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: This year I played at a high level.  She was playing also quite well.  I think she is coming from winning a tournament.  And I've had a feeling that at some moment I was under control, I was controlling the match.  I had my opportunities, but I wasn't being able to do better, better than her.  I think that this year I played better than other years.  But the match has just gone away.   
 Q.  I want you to talk about your emotions.  How do you feel right now?  Do you get used to being able to manage losses like today?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, how do I manage it?  Well, at the end of the day, you have to just keep your behavior.  It's a sad score for sure.  I would have liked to play a bit better and more matches.  Sometimes it seems that here I'm not able to make it deep in the tournament.  But this year, I felt a little bit more relaxed on the court than other years and I was at a proper level, but I didn't close the match and in the first set, not the second set.  But the reality is I'm feeling sad, yes.  I'm not going to lie.   
 Q.  Your defeat has not been your only surprise today.  Cibulkova wasn't able to win her match, suffering a lot.  Do you think it is very difficult to be regular in these kind of matches?  Do you think of yourself as favorite in Madrid?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Do I think of myself as a favorite in Madrid?  No.  We have different conditions compared to other tournaments.  I'm not looking at the other players, but it's true that nowadays any player can beat the best player.  I think that Kvitova has been the only one able to win two tournaments this year.  Any player nowadays, if you don't have a high level, she can beat you.  Any player can be a player in the female tournaments.   
 Q.  You were saying that you have done a good match but maybe at some key point you've been lacking a little bit of tennis.  What are you lacking in order to have that version of Garbine where she was favorite in the tournament and able to win tournaments?  What are you missing?  Are you close to it?  Or are you far away to be at your best level?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: From last year, I have been improving.  My level is quite good at the moment.  I was confident.  Last match went well, I have been confident in this last couple of matches.  But I think that there's been a couple of key moments I have not played wisely or in an intelligent way because that is the main reason.   
My game was working today.  Everything seemed to be fine.  At those key points, I have to see what I have to adjust and what I have done wrong and there are some small details and, at this level, it is not only about playing well.  You need that plus, especially against those girls playing really well because you need to give everything on the court to be able to win.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT