CHINA OPEN
October 1, 2018
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








G. MUGURUZA/E. Makarova
6-0, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You played a player that gives top players a lot of difficulty in the first round or in general.  What were some of your tactics going into today?  How do you think you performed?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I think I did a good performance.  We played already a couple of times.  We have trained together.  I know she's a very dangerous player.  I know she can play very well, so it was a good first round.
I'm happy, yeah, that I won in two sets.  So good overall.
Q. Through the first set it looked like quite dominant, and it got a little tricky in the second set.  What do you feel got away from you when it felt you were very much in control of the second set?  How do you think you were able to turn it around?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yeah, I think I started very well.  I think she was making too many unforced errors compared to what she normally does.  I think she made few errors.  After I think my game was a little less effective.  She was starting to get a little bit more comfortable, finding better shots.  It was just at the end a battle of me closing and she trying to hang on in the match.
Q. In the second set you called your coach out onto the court.  What was some of the advice he gave you?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, basically that I was doing the right thing.  I had few match points that I couldn't convert them.  Yeah, it was a changeover.  Just to be calm and to keep concentrated that it's going to go my way basically.
Q. On this side we love to talk about confidence, losing it, gaining it.  After losing some close matches, do you feel like it's still a work in progress?  Is it far away?  Close from what you would like it to be?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I think there is maybe two kind of confidence:  I think there is the one with the results, and the one that's inside of you.  I think I probably still feel that I'm confident with my game and with my experience and with my level.
Probably, yeah, had a few matches this year where it was tight.  Not necessarily gives me less confidence.  It's just a process of keep getting into those moments, get it my way.  At some point it's going to start turning things.
Q. Next round opponent, Aryna Sabalenka, who just did what you did in 2015 in the Asian swing:  you win the China Open, did very well in Wuhan.  Any comment on the next opponent?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I think a very good match to play.  I think she's been playing very well obviously, with a lot of confidence.  So I'm excited to have in front of me one of the players that are playing well.  Yeah, I'm excited about it.
Q. You had a lot of fans out there today.  You won this before.  How does the environment feel specifically at this tournament now that you're back?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: It always feels nice when I go back to China.  The fans here, they are really noticeable, they really cheer for me.  It's very nice.
Like I said before, coming back to a tournament where you won and have good memories, it's always nice.  Especially it's not that long ago, but feels like.
Yeah, I like it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT